THE BULLITT MISSION TO RUSSIA

Testimony before the Committee on Foreign Relations United States Senate of WILLIAM C. BULLITT.

MCMXIX

CONTENTS

     THE COMMITTEE MEETS

     MR. BULLITT'S OFFICIAL STATUS

     ORDERED TO RUSSIA

     COUNCIL OF TEN DISCUSSES RUSSIA

     THE TROOPS AT ARCHANGEL

     SITUATION IN RUSSIA

     FRANCE BLOCKS PRINKIPOS CONFERENCE

     WHAT AMERICA WANTED

     THE BRITISH TERMS

     TEXT OF PROJECTED PEACE PROPOSAL BY THE ALLIED AND ASSOCIATED
       GOVERNMENTS

     MR. BULLITT'S REPORT ON RUSSIA
          ECONOMIC SITUATION
          SOCIAL CONDITIONS
          POLITICAL SITUATION
          PEACE PROPOSALS
          CONCLUSIONS

APPENDIX TO REPORT
     TRANSPORT
     FOOD
     MANAGEMENT
     SOCIAL CONDITIONS
     STATEMENTS OF LEADERS OF OPPOSITION PARTIES
     ARMY
     LENIN'S PRESTIGE
     CONCESSIONS

BREAKFAST WITH LLOYD GEORGE

BULLITT REPORT SUPPRESSED

PROPOSED DECLARATION OF ASSOCIATED GOVERNMENTS' POLICY AND OFFER OF
  ARMISTICE

NANSEN PLAN TO FEED RUSSIA

AUCHINCLOSS-MILLER PROPOSAL

BULLITT MEMORANDUM FOR AUCHINCLOSS

REPLY OF PRESIDENT AND THREE PREMIERS TO NANSEN

HOLCHAK'S ADVANCE CAUSES REJECTION OF PEACE PROPOSAL

LLOYD GEORGE DECEIVES PARLIAMENT

MR. BULLITT RESIGNS

REPORT OF LINCOLN STEFFENS

REPORTS OF CAPT. W.W. PETTIT

SOCIAL WORK IN PETROGRAD

THE COMMITTEE ADJOURNS

UNITED STATES SENATE, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS,

Washington, D.C., Friday, September 12, 1919.

The committee met, pursuant to the call of the chairman, at 10 o'clock a.m., in room 310, Senate
Office Building, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge presiding.

Present: Senators Lodge (chairman), Brandegee, Fall, Knox, Harding, and New.

The CHAIRMAN. Mr. Bullitt is to make a statement to the committee this morning. I think I ought
to say that Mr. Bullitt was summoned on the 23d of August, I believe, and he was in the woods
at that time, out of reach of telegraph or telephone or mail, and only received the summons
a few days ago. He came at once to Washington. That is the reason of the delay in his hearing.

The CHAIRMAN. Mr. Bullitt, will you take the stand and give your full name, please, to the
stenographer?

Mr. BULLITT, William C. Bullitt.

The CHAIRMAN. You are a native and a resident of Philadelphia, are you not?

Mr. BULLITT. I am, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Prior to the war, what were you engaged in?

Mr. BULLITT. Before the war I was employed by the Philadelphia Public Ledger. I had been a
correspondent for them in various places, and I had been a member of the editorial staff in
Philadelphia for a time.

The CHAIRMAN. You went abroad for them as a correspondent?

Mr. BULLITT. I did, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Before we went into the war?

Mr. BULLITT. Before we went into the war I toured Germany, Austria, Hungary, Belgium, Poland,
and other places, studying conditions there, for the purposes of the Public Ledger.

The CHAIRMAN. After we entered the war, what did you do? You came back?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir; I came back. I was in the United States at that time.

The CHAIRMAN. At that time?

Mr. BULLITT. And I was asked to enter the Department of State, to work in the Division of Western
European Affairs under Mr. Grew, in which my special province was to follow the political situation
of Germany and Austria-Hungary, to prepare the confidential reports of the department on Germany,
Austria, and Hungary--the weekly reports--and also such memoranda on conditions as the President
and the Secretary and others might call for.

The CHAIRMAN. And then you went to Paris as a member of the staff, after the armistice?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes; I was an employee of the department at the time of the armistice, and I was
ordered to Paris as a member of the staff of the commission.

Senator KNOX. When did you first go to Paris, Mr. Bullitt?

Mr. BULLITT. I sailed on the George Washington. I went over with the original trip of the President.

Senator KNOX. And you were there continuously how long?

Mr. BULLITT. I remained in Paris until--I can give you the exact date--I was ordered to go
on a special mission to Berne about the first week of February. I can give you the exact date,
if it is of any moment.

Senator KNOX. No; it is not.

Mr. BULLITT. I remained a week in Berne, then returned and remained in Paris until I was ordered
to go to Russia.

I left for Russia on the 22d of February. I was in Paris during the entire period until the
22d of February. Senator KNOX. You said you went over on the original trip of the President.
Just to get these dates right, when did you reach Paris?

Mr. BULLITT. I left New York on December 4 and, as I remember, we reached Paris on December 13.

Senator KNOX. And you were there, then, until you went to Berne in February?

Mr. BULLITT. In February,

Senator KNOX. What was your personal relation to the peace conference and its work?

MR. BULLITT'S OFFICIAL STATUS

Mr. BULLITT. When I first arrived I was asked to take charge of a confidential bulletin which
was to be gotten out for the benefit of the commissioners each morning. It was to be read by
them. That lasted a very short time, and as is usual with most things of the kind, we discovered
that the commissioners did not care to spend the time reading it, and therefore it was decided
to abolish this bulletin, and that instead I should receive all the intelligence reports of
military intelligence, of the State Department, intelligence received through all the special
dispatches of the ambassadors, etc., in fact, all the information that came in, and a section
was created called the Current Intelligence Section. I was called the Chief of the Division
of Current Intelligence Summaries.

Senator KNOX. What a pity ... for microbes!

... IV and mothers seem CROYDON in Croydon, near London, the League
vaccinia violently opposed compulsory vaccination in the neighborhood.

A Spanish newspaper accounts for the fact putting this tagline: "Everywhere
they boil beans.

"And this:" And they still talk de l'Espagne et le Maroc !»... Who speaks of l'Espagne et le
Maroc?

The British, in any case, talk of Spain and Marocco, and truth is that if we did not have more
analogy with Europe to oppose the mandatory vaccination would not
have any analogy and would be completely united to Africa.

Because Europe can fight and we do not compulsory vaccination.

This is
the case of two people who opposed the oil lamps, one on behalf of
the electric light and the other on behalf of the lamp.

       The residents of Croydon, with an excellent development, believe
they must do without the vaccine. "Instead of vaccinated - they say
- you give us more water and air. "Here, however, the alternative is
tragic: either vaccine or smallpox.

We are still in the period of the vaccine, as we are in the reforming
and republicanism. I live in Croydon would likely be a member of the League
vaccinia, and yet, when Mr. Romeo launched here its campaign for
mandatory vaccination, I did an article defending it.

The vaccine, which in England would seem to me reactionary and unscientific,
here I find liberal and cientificísima.

And if the English revolutionary spirits vaccine could be transferred with his conservative party,
there would be a truly progressive in Spain who refused to receive
him.

     The English conservative party would then represent the trend more
advanced in Spanish politics.

     Undoubtedly, the fact that in London combat vaccine should not serve
to encourage Spanish vaccinia. In a U.S. State is now doing a campaign
with a rail project ... but in order to establish a communications
service carriers.

     The railway is already beginning
     to be a backlog in the world. Here you can not say yet that we railways.
Microbe V SALARY The germ of influenza has become.

     On arrival at Madrid, a microbe was to visit local journalistic purposes.
     - Looks like you have traveled halfway around the world -
     we said local microbe. - Yeah ... I've been in France, Germany,
     Switzerland, Denmark, England, in the United States ... - Large
     countries, eh? - Remove you there! For a poor germ
     
     that wants to live quietly, the best country is Spain. Here you base
a small family - four or five hundred thousand children - and brings
you forward without the slightest mishap.

     You wear your kids to school, theater and cinema, and is a pleasure
to see how to instruct and have fun. The food is superb. What so rotten
meat! What so adulterated milk!

     ... - Milk is
     very good indeed - said the local microbe - but what
     about the carbolic acid? - Carbolic acid? - Said the flu microbe --.

     "But
     
     you believe in carbolic acid? - Man!

Doctors say ... - But did you believe in doctors?

... What a man believes in medical screening. What is inconceivable is
that a germ, which is the secret of these things, either ignore them.

For my part, I assure you that the carbolic acid that
makes me fat and I think its exquisite aroma.

Undeceive you, dear colleague. Carbolic acid
is only bad for men ... - And do you stay here long? - You see.

I have come
to recover.

I suffered a lot in my travels through the world.

Outside Spain, everything turns to speak of freedom, but if there
is a poor country where a microbe can do whatever he wants, this
country is this.

Here one feels protected by the laws and customs. The natives love us, and when some authority launched
a campaign against us missing friends vigorously defend us saying they have a perfect right
to cultivate.

This is freedom, freedom for microbes, and the rest is story.

Do you know how much weight I lost during my stay in England? For
close to a millionth of a milligram.

To say that England is a freer country than Spain!

... Moreover, in Spain one can cultivate the treatment of all types
of microbes, and that is always instructive.

The germ of typhus, for example, and smallpox, expelled from around
the world, have taken refuge here, where they live wonderfully well.

I've seen the other day at the chest of a patient who is a client of mine and who had taken his doctor.
- So you set you among us for ever? - Oh, no! ... A day in which Spain is a country of microbes
alone, and then the struggle for life will become horrible characters here. - Before that date
- said the local bug - I'll catch the budget. I look at some one
empleíllo laboratory and microbiological culture, and to live!

VI Youth,
divine treasure ... Have you read the experiences of Dr. Voronof?

Dr. Voronof claims to have discovered, quite simply, the secret of eternal youth. "Our life -
says Dr. Voronof - not so much the functioning of major organs such as the secretion of certain
glands, sometimes minute ..." read this, you enter a very lively
suspicion that the doctor Voronof tiny glands called on the heels
of the Bank of Spain, paper money and the different current values,
suspicions that are accentuated as one continues reading: "A man -
adds the wise surgeon - can not live without kidney or stomach but
if you suppress, for example, capsules subrenales, die ... "No doubt
- think a - Dr. Voronof, born of its technical professional, called
capsules subrenales to parts of five pesetas.

The name seems strange but perhaps not without pedigree.

A philosopher might, perhaps, find some analogy between the term and the popular expression of
'cost one a kidney, "an expression demonstrating that the people considered
also as a kind of hard capsules subrenales.

.. But these are fantasies. Dr. Voronof knows very well what is said and ensures that doctors
can rejuvenate humanity nothing more than decrepit bodies grafted on interstitial glands vigorous
bodies. This procedure has already returned the doctor Voronof many rams youth. Is not it might
return to some of our politicians? It is possible that all the Spanish problems are reduced to a single
surgical problem, and that all we need in this country are interstitial glands. Our sheep
are more or less old, but our politicians are all before the French Revolution, and if surgeons
fail to kill them, that at least seek to rejuvenate.

I do not think that politicians differ in both the sheep that no
one can do with what has been done with others.

Try them your doctor Voronof interstitial glands and thyroid glands tested also those with which
it appears that, as in 1913, became an idiot in a being sensible
and reasonable.

Now that Dr. Voronof should take precautions, because even a politician
scientifically equal to one ram, is, however, an essential difference
between them.

     The ram does not live in her old age, and the political itself. What
would a Spanish politician with no belly, no white beard, without
asthma and non-balding?

     
     

     Take
     
     away these things to a politician
     
     is to take away the prestige and respectability. On the other
     hand, is that the former ministers would continue collecting
     their severance pay when they returned to the age at which deputies
     were simple? Because if it continued to collect the
     failure of Voronof doctor could not be clearer. Really, I
     do not believe it is not easy to rejuvenate a Spanish politician.
     Dr. Voronof will rejuvenate a ram of fourteen, a parrot and
     one hundred and fifty two hundred tents, but not to one of our
     politicians. And that is to return youth to any animal, you need
     something that does not depend either on Voronof doctor nor the animal. It
requires simply that the animal in question has ever been young. I
BETWEEN MEN AND MEDICAL CHALLENGES If the proposition that some doctors
had a day at Colegio Madrid had come to be adopted, the 'sets gentlemen
were soon to pass into history.

This is a proposal that any doctor attending physician as such any challenge.
It is clear that the challenges do not usually think of anything.

     At first sight there is, therefore, no reason for the gentlemen
     accompanied by a doctor do when they go to fight and when
     they go for coffee, since coffee, either alone or with milk,
     is, in almost all establishments, a deceptive concoction that
     gives rise to serious gastric complications.

It can
     be shown that virtually all doctors are of unnecessary challenges,
     but to prove this, it also shows that the challenges are almost
     unnecessary life. We know the challenges that nobody dies, but it
     must maintain the belief that someone can die, and keep it is
     what are the doctors. Swords, sabers, pistols all this has a
     decorative nature and mix, and you can watch it happily,
     but what about the kit?
     

     Who does assails him for a moment the idea of death to see
     a doctor with your kit under his arm? In France, the combatants
     seek to present to the public from time to time a small body.
     Here no body has changed since many years and is losing prestige
     duel. You see the statistics of accidents work and noted that the
     industry produces more victims corchotaponera grief. What is
     at issue in Spain between supporters of the challenge and antipartidarios?
     Well, quite simply, one died back in 98, dead apparently owed
     his death to an oversight of the medical doctor ... If, for ,
     we make the boycott of the challenges, if when a gentleman
     has occurred to another with a sword or a sword, a scratch
     on the wrist, not one doctor to describe this as an incisive wound
scratch-inch carving knife as many extension in the region such a
stress on the dermis and epidermis and paquidermis, if the doctor
did not check further into this scratch tincture of iodine and iodoform
and some other crap, and no gun there a quarry and then covered the
gauze smelly arm What will be the challenges?

     
     The challenges will then be reduced to one sport and swimming,
     as the pool or fishing rod, and I do not like the muscle or poker,
     because these games is no doubt that produce victims. They will
     become a common and costly exercise and will soon disappear. And
     this would be serious because, probably, would lead to increased
     mortality. II CHALLENGES AND TECHNIQUE If a man invited me
     one day to play a game of chess, however I was forced to, not
     happy. We show that I do not know how to play chess, and the
     gentleman in question would have to give the game projected.
     If the same Lord intends me to run another day at the piano
     
     Chopin's funeral march, I would not be easy to please.
     - Do not know how to play the piano - I would say -. And
     if, instead of chess or the piano, the man in question should
     be directed towards the fencing and would fight with me the
     sword or saber, my answer would be equally laconic. - I'm sorry,
     but I can not fight a duel with sabers or swords ... In
     the first and second cases, everyone would find my refusal perfectly
     natural. It can be a big fan of chess, but it is understood
     
     that when a man can not play, not play.

     
     It can be very enthusiastic about the funeral march, and yet, unable
to execute on piano technique, people can be explained without difficulty,
that a man does not want to run ... In the third case, however, sure
I would be very wrong.

     
     Any reason is not to fight, except that a beat is not known.
     

     Nobody thinks of the reason attributed to the fear that
     I do not give concerts in the Philharmonic Society, but
     if I refuse to beat me, it seems that fear possessed me: - In
     the field, the technique means very little. The decisive is the
     value ... And this is possible, but I think you have more value as
it has more technical.

There is evidence that swimming technique consists mainly of my fear. No no primary intention, because
fear leads him to a series of movements with which, inevitably, is drowning. Well, I'd take D'Artagnan,
who is the public who knew swimming, he would put the edge of a deep sea, and say: - Dive you. It's all
about not being afraid ... and the bold musketeer would go to her company to the peaceful sea bream. I may
not batiese me, beat me even if I knew, as you may not execute the funeral
march, though he knew execute; but if anyone ever asks me to run this way, I'm
not going to come out saying that I prefer other more cheerful place,
or I do not inspire confidence that the autonomy of Poland, land of
the author, but simply that I can play the piano.

And when someone challenges me, I know I will not beat me, instead of posing the problem of morality of
the duel. Furthermore, perhaps the whole moral of mourning consists precisely in this. When everybody
wore a sword at his side and knew more or less handle, duel was such
a thing as what is now become involved with clubs.

Today, however, grief is the equivalent of what will become involved with clubs in 2000, when, instead
of sticks, the men take to the streets with rubber tubes filled with
compressed air, radioactive energy of coffee or whatever.

III CHALLENGES AND HONOR Let's continue with this grief. A man makes a dirty trick, this man is
beaten and a man of honor. One man was doing a dirty trick, this man did not bat and is a man without
honor. The honor or dishonor not consist, then, behave honorably or dishonorably, but to fight or not
fight. I would say of knightly honor exactly what I said about the value, that is, you have more
so you have more technique.

The honor can be learned, if not twelve, a hundred or two hundred lessons. It's all about having some money
to go to a fencing room.

For a thousand pesetas one might be a perfect gentleman, provided that one is not too old or too
fat, because the honor also has age, weight and height. - But if this is so - tell you - Why are
there so many men without honor? Simply because they do not need.
I have observed with only honor those who have it makes them a real
shortage. What good would the honor of a carpenter or a trader? When
a young plan to do some woodwork or trade, not concerned with the honor.
However, if you want to enter politics, or is an aristocrat, bought
a few florets, slippers and a mask and entered in an academy fencing.

In England there is no knightly honor, and in Barcelona, either.


He thought that the British proposal contained the only suggestions that lead anywhere. It
might lead nowhere. But this could at least be found out.

M. Pichon referred again to the suggestion that Ambassador Noulens be called before the meeting.

Mr. Balfour suggested that it might be well to call the Dutch Consul, lately in Petrograd,
if it was the desire of those present to hear the anti-Bolshevik side.

Baron Sonnino suggested that M. Scavenius, Minister of Denmark, recently in Russia, would be
able to give interesting data on the Russian situation.

Those present seemed to think that it might be desirable to hear what these gentlemen might
have to say.

Senator KNOX. Do you know anything about a letter that Buckler wrote to the President in relation
to his mission? Have you ever seen a copy of his report in the form of a letter?

Mr. BULLITT. I have read a copy of his report, but I have not the copy. The only reference
I have to it that I find, in the short time I have had to go over my papers since I came down
from the woods, is in a memorandum to Col. House in reference to the withdrawal of the American
troops from Archangel [reading]:

Buckler discussed the matter of the withdrawal of these troops with Litvinov, who said that
unquestionably the Bolsheviki would agree to an armistice on the Archangel front at any time;
and, furthermore, would pledge themselves not to injure in any way those Russians in and about
Archangel who have been cooperating with the Allies. He, furthermore, suggested that such Russians
as did not care to trust their lives to such a promise should be taken out with the troops.

Senator KNOX. Do you know anything about whether Litvinov communicated directly with the President
in reference to this Buckler mission?

Mr. BULLITT. Litvinov had written a letter to the President, which has since been widely published,
on December 24.

Senator KNOX. That is the letter I had in mind. I had seen some references to that. Do you
have a copy of that letter?

Mr. BULLITT. I do not know whether I have any copies of this letter--that is, authentic. I
think I have a newspaper copy some place, but I have no actual copy of the letter.

Senator KNOX. Can you tell us anything more about the discussion in reference to the withdrawal
of troops from Russia that took place at that time--anything more than is indicated by your
letter, there?

Mr. BULLITT. There were very serious discussions, all the time. Telegrams were being received
frequently from the various commanders at Archangel, the American and the British notably,
in regard to conditions, which they described as likely to be disastrous, and discussions of
real gravity were taking place all the time. The subject was very much in the air. I have,
I will say, very few references to that particular condition. I have here this memorandum which
takes up some of these subjects. I do not know if the committee would care to hear it.

The CHAIRMAN. Yes.

Senator KNOX. This is a memorandum that you sent to Col. House?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes; Col. House.

Senator KNOX. Please read it.

Mr. BULLITT [reading]:

     JANUARY 30, 1919.
     Memorandum for Col. House.

     Subject: Withdrawal of American troops from Archangel.

     DEAR COL. HOUSE: The 12,000 American, British, and French
     troops at Archangel are no longer serving any useful
     purpose. Only 3,000 Russians have rallied around this force.
     It is the attacked, not the attacker, and serves merely to
     create cynicism in regard to all our proposals and to
     stimulate recruiting for the Red Army.

     Furthermore, the 4,000 Americans, 6,000 British, 2,000
     French, and 3,000 Russian troops in this region are in
     considerable danger of destruction by the Bolsheviki. Gen.
     Ironside has just appealed for reinforcements and the
     British war office has directed the commanding general at
     Murmansk to be prepared to dispatch a battalion of Infantry
     to Archangel.

     Instead of transferring troops from Murmansk to Archangel,
     it seems to me that we should at once transfer to Murmansk
     and bring home the troops which are now at Archangel. Aside
     from the needless suffering which these men are enduring,
     aside from the demands of the public in the United States
     and England for the return of these men, it seems to me that
     the withdrawal of these troops would be of great value as a
     proof that we have made the Prinkipos proposal in full good
     faith.

     I have asked Gen. Churchill to obtain the most expert
     opinion available on the practicability of moving the 12,000
     American, British, and French troops and such Russians as
     may wish to accompany them from Archangel to Murmansk. The
     appended memorandum and map which he has prepared show that
     unless the ice in the White Sea suddenly becomes thicker it
     is at present possible with the aid of six ice breakers
     which are now at Archangel to move these troops by water to
     Kem on the Murmansk Railroad, whence they may be carried by
     train to Murmansk.

     The provisional government at Archangel has just notified us
     that it will not accept the proposal for a conference at
     Prinkipos. It seems dignified and honorable at this moment
     to inform the Archangel government that since it can not
     agree to the allied proposal, presented after the most
     serious consideration, we shall decline to support it
     further with arms, but will make provision for the safety of
     all Russians who are unwilling to remain at Archangel.

     I have discussed this Archangel business at some length with
     Philip Kerr, Lloyd George's secretary, who says that L.G.
     intends to bring the British troops out on the 1st of May,
     which he believes to be the first practicable moment. The
     first practicable moment, however, seems to be now.

     The situation at Archangel is most serious for the soldiers
     who are stationed there, but it is also serious for the
     Governments which sent them out and seem to have abandoned
     them. Unless they are saved by prompt action, we shall have
     another Gallipoli. Very respectfully yours,

     WILLIAM C. BULLITT.

I discussed these matters with each one of the commissioners each morning. If you have removed the emphasis
on the works of the Quintero brothers, making their characters vocalizing all the letters in
accordance with formal prosody, the Quintero brothers had never entered
the Academy.

And they say that the Academy is designed to ensure the purity of
the language!

... Certainly, we do not have the Galician public.

Often, when one says that is Galician, note in the auditorium and
a desire to answer: - man, no! That will be an apprehension of you
... with me no one has reached this point, but sometimes I have said
- Gallego?

For no one
would believe it. There is nothing you shout, right?

(To the bystanders.) The
bystanders then, with great delicacy, have confirmed that, indeed,
I was not noticed anything that I was Galician.

And then someone has never been lacking to say: - If there Galician
"very good".

When a Galician comes ready! ... - You bet! - Added some other gentleman
at this time -.

There
Galician ministers arriving and all. There you have to Besada. - And Montero Ríos ... - And
Canalejas ... Terrible thing is this that to please him one must
be compared to a minister!

Is the consequence of a secular bias exists against Galicia, but
for my part, I believe that this bias is for Galicia a huge advantage.

Each Galicia, in fact, have to rectify their own efforts.

The Andalusian, at birth, is a legacy of grace, of sympathy and popularity
that allows you to easily open a path in life, though it lacks merit.

Galician, however, is only needed to pay off debt itself, and if
this is a bad individually, collectively have to be an asset.

In the long run prove that the people have been, in every age, the
opposite of the reputation they had, because, when they had the fame,
did not need the thing, and since the thing, not fame , is fundamental.

But since this is becoming too thought-provoking, perhaps worth more
to quit.

IV THE RACE The last time I stayed in Galicia, Galicia was one of the
most beautiful of Spanish regions.

     It has now risen to the nation status. - We are a nation, you
     know - someone tells me -. We have a national character
     as strong as the first ... - Why not - I say.

     And indeed, why not? A nation does the same as anything else.

     It's about fifteen years and a million pesetas. With a million
     pesetas I pledge to quickly make a nation in the same Getafe, a short
walk from Madrid.

     I go there and see if there are more men than men dark blond or
     brown men are more fair than men, and if in the majority,
     blonde or brunette, predominantly brachycephalic on dolichocephalic,
or vice versa.

     It is clear that some anthropological Getafe have preponderance,
     and such would be the foundation for future citizenship. Then pick
up the local idioms and is a language.

After a few years, I have finished my homework and I would have won
a fortune.

     And if anyone dared to tell me then that Getafe was not a nation,
     I ask him what he meant by such and such could not define the concept
of nation, would have reduced to silence.

     

     The nationalist whom I have alluded to nations a much more respectful
than mine. - But you yourself - he says --You are a Celt. - No - I
respond -.

     

     I'm not a Celtic.
     

     Perhaps it has ever been, but in an age so remote that
     do not keep it even the most dim memory. If I was Celtic,
     this happy event happened
     
     to me long before the Roman Empire, and, since then, have passed
     so many things may, in the course of centuries, I was also Goth,
Phoenician and Moorish.

The Irish
     are thrown in turn to
     
     Celtic, and yet, I feel much closer to Madrid than to an Irishman. No
     - continue -.

     I'm not Celtic. I'm simply a nervous man, and instead to
     join a Celtic blood, I'd rather do it myself an Iberian temperament.
     Why have not the men associate temperament rather than of races
     or religions? This would, undoubtedly, much more scientific, and
I do not despair yet to see this war ended, a great war against intercontinental
bile nodes. Bilious, of course, will be those who fight back. V THE
LANGUAGE A friend wanted to get into the guild speech, which is a
league set up to propagate the use of Galician.

     I refused. I think the whole world speaks Galician in Galicia,
     and I think, more than anyone, speak those who speak Castilian. Castilian,
     is indeed the true current form of Galician.

     The farmers expressed here do not use Galician a language other
     than the manufacturers who make use of Castilian, use the same language,
     but with a limited vocabulary and primitive. It does not
     really speak Galician, Castilian, but foul-mouthed.
     And, to form a League to reconstitute Castilian in its most remote,
I do not see why the League has accurately in Galicia.

     
     
     This could also be formed in Valladolid. Do not think there is
     a Galician language than Castilian.
     

     I do believe is that they could invent. I know medieval
     
     languages that have been made in the last thirty years, in accordance
with all philological advances.

     With a small base is a language in less time than it takes to
     make a political party. We could thus make a Galician language, but
how much we last?

     Around fifty, sixty or one hundred years, this would Galician
     language, logic, and fatally, to be confused with Castilian.

The Galician evolve along its course. - And the Castilian? - Ask someone. The Castilian not evolve
anything, because we have the academics to prevent it evolves. In
addition, perhaps all this language is much less important than we
think.

     
     I think the importance of languages is very small, even in the
     same literature. If the most important in literature was the language,
Latin American Spanish read books in preference to books from other
countries.

     The language unites us Latin Americans, but other things,
     positively stronger, attract them to speak very different
     countries. VI emphasis on a recent trip, aboard an ocean liner, I
had the good fortune to coincide with an illustrious group of actors
Spanish.

     I came a little sick.

My head gave me a strange feeling as if mine was not exact, but rather
a head resembling that someone had given me the task of carrying up
to upset Spain.

Judging
     by this
     
     head, I took a great actress by a woman who always spoke in a
     very emphatic, but soon she pulled out my mistake.
     If he spoke, it was not for her, but for girls, two of his daughters,
     very cute, indeed. The girls were starting his theatrical career, and
     only if the company put more than their pretty faces, but his
     mother, between racks, put the emphasis. - Poor thing - said the
good lady -.

     There is one telling something, but the other does not say
     a word. I pitied the dumbness unhappy because I think a
     great misfortune for a marriageable girl. Fortunately, it was
     just a dumb artist. The girl had a very loose tongue, but the
     director did not dare to entrust more than silent roles. - And why
     not let her speak? - For the accent - I answered the afflicted mother
-.

     We are Galicia, and in this company can
     
     not have an accent. Do you think that, were it not for the accent,
     my girls would come in second? The emphasis is our misfortune. Fortunately,
     the big girl and you lost it ... The big girl, in fact, without
     an accent could say 'hello, viscount! "," I take it without
     sugar "and other phrases of high comedy, but the little
     girl was incorrigible, while not lose the accent, would not
     speak. In this business was supposed,
     
     probably, that the action of all the comedies happening on the moon.
     No one was allowed any accent. A marchioness left Galician
     or Catalan, Andalusian or Madrid, they found it unacceptable, as
if the marquis were not born anywhere.

And
     the poor thing could not break mute
     
     to speak until he had completely distorted his voice and
     managed to speak like a phonograph. Meanwhile,
     
     her mother took care of the accent as well that could take care
     of liver disease. - Look, woman - used to say -.

     Yesterday you were greatly relieved, but today I feel much
     worse. - What do you, Mom! Must be the dizziness ... The accent
     is one of the great charms of Galicia. When I arrived the first
     friends I saw who broke into pitiful moans. - Fulaniño!
     - Tell me -. You will come very cansadiño. Pobriño! ... Seemed
     to cry, and what they did was express a great joy. They are
     the disadvantages
     
     of
     
     this accent
     
     as sweet. But I do not want to comment on the Galician accent. In this
     matter of accents I have an unpleasant experience and not want
     to repeat with my own countrymen. ANTONINO VII will make about
     two or three months, Antoniño went to confession, and in the
     course of his confession, he told the priest to read newspapers.
     - Bad! !...-- Malo muttered the priest -. I do not see what need
     have you to read newspapers. At least they were of good press!
     ... But, surely, will the other. They were on the other, in fact,
     and Antoniño recognized this, although claiming a ground
     proof. - What do you, father - said -. Good News is so bad! ...
     - No more bad press than bad press - said the priest sen -.
     And let's see, what newspapers are those that you read? ...
     - Leo The Sun - Antoniño said. - Is the Sun? - The Sun - A ten-cent
newspaper? - Exactly. a period of ten cents - maybe he thought the
priest - must be as bad as two newspapers of five.

     
     Then aloud, he continued: - "A newspaper that does not support
     the advance refundable? - Yes, father - and
     
     half stunned Antoniño said. - A newspaper - even the priest questioned
     , which campaigns against the German espionage? Antoniño could not
     deny. - Same father - he sighed -. The same! ... - Well, my
     son - then said the priest -. Sorry, but I can give absolution.
     Antoniño remained terrified.
     
     If he had been left without a girlfriend, maybe he could have resigned.

     
     He could also live some time without employment, but without absolution!
     ... - Well, I - I told Antoniño when the poor boy told me
     his troubles " -. I think that, if necessary, could live without
     absolution. I've seen people with one lung only, and others
     that are totally spleen. And I saw
     
     something even more curious, Antoniño, I have seen men living without
     money and live well ... In Madrid there is Tues - Madrid is
     different - noted Antoniño -. That is a great city. I
     do not tell me there was absolutely indispensable absolution, but
     here! ... How do you want to live here without absolution
     a poor cooper? - And what happened at last? Did not you
     absolution? - Quia! ... If it were the cure Ribalta! ... That,
     that was a folksy cure. All the girls go to confession to absolve
     him because as long as they put a very small penance. "Have
     fun - they say -. Time will have to pray if you do not find young men
of law to marry with you '... But the priest is very strict here.

     And that I present him occasionally eggs or apples! To say
     that men are grateful church! - So you did not give you absolution
- No, sir.

     
     I said no but gave me erase me from the newspaper that day. All the
     people heard.
     

     Some people stopped to greet me, and in the factory
     
     were about to take off the bread. Then I left the city, ready
     to get an acquittal, although I had to spend two hundred reals.
     What the devil!
     
     For these cases one wants the money.

I came
     to church, I sat in the confessional, and the first thing I told
     the priest was this: "Acúsome, father, reading The
     
     Sun." - Is that what you said, Antoniño? - "So, yes, sir, and
     with the same ease with which it could say" good morning ". Not
     that I'm showing you a chicken. - And the priest,
     
     what did he say? - The priest asked me if that of the Sun was a novel,
and when I explained I was a regular dime, he said: - If ten cents,
must be good ... - And you get absolution? - You bet.

     

     In the cities,
     
     get everything. But I wanted to avenge the priest here, and
     the next day when I was serving communion, I was with others,
     and I had to
     
     give him the same. He already had to understand that
     I had my acquittal in his pocket, but , if you could see which
     side got me! ... - Bravo, Antoniño!

And
     do you read The Sun? - Yes, sir. - For a few days it will read your
     story. People not going
     
     to believe, but there you are to testify. - Well ... if by
     chance they
     
     find in the factory and I get fired ... - Do not worry, Antoniño.
     I will not give details and will retain all the necessary elements
to your life: a job, a girlfriend, an acquittal ... A FRIEND OF MISTER
VIII Borrow Back in 1835, Spain fell into a quirky English who came
to sell Bibles.

     A English came to day this Pontevedra with a letter of
     
     recommendation for Mr. Garcia,
     
     a notary of
     
     the city.
     
     Mr. Garcia proved to be an enthusiastic
     
     patriot, but
     
     in a purely local level, as has English. His homeland was Pontevedra,
and abroad, Vigo. - These guys Vigo - exclaimed - say their city
is better than ours and it should become the capital of the province.

     Have you ever heard such madness?

     
     Have you ever had happened to you compare Vigo Pontevedra? - I do
not know - said the Englishman -.

I was
     never in Vigo, but I have heard that the Bay of Vigo is the best
in the world. - The Bay! - Grumbled Mr. Garcia -.
     

     The bay! ... Yes Those bastards have a bay, and with it we have robbed
us all trade, but why do you need a provincial capital bay?

     
     

     The bay! I hope - continued
     
     Mr. Garcia, speaking in English - you have
     
     not come so far to catch the defense of a bandit taifa as those
     of Vigo. - No - said the Englishman
     
     -. Actually I knew that they needed my help Vigo in this dispute.
     The only thing I intend to do with them is to take the New Testament,
which clearly have much need if they're so gulfs as rogue as you paint
a long time ... And later, Mr. Garcia has grumbled: - The Bay!

     ... I never reached me by what right can a people like the
     Bay of Vigo ... I had
     
     read this dialogue, I just translate almost literally
     in the Bible in Spain George Borrow, which was the name that English
     eccentric, now one of the purest glories available to English literature.
     I had read long ago, and believed that Mr. Garcia, no longer
     young at the beginning of last century, would lie under their
     beloved land now Pontevedra, perhaps feeding with their
     
     spoils a chestnut or a cherry. But Spain is the country
     where it never dies completely. Upon arrival at Pontevedra
     one is at once with Mr. Garcia, who began to speak ill of
     Vigo. The struggle between Vigo and Pontevedra continues
     
     today as in 1835. And that ignores Mr. Garcia, as though
     
     he spoke with Mr. Borrow had not spent days none, is that,
     compared to Vigo, Pontevedra Pontevedra is not, but Madrid.
     Pontevedra is the Ministry of Finance and of War, and Development,
     and Interior. Pontevedra is the administration, and Vigo
     is geography. If Vigo might become one day the most
     important communications hub between Europe and America,
     I do not think the people Pontevedra lose nothing by it. Vigo
     Bay would then become simply a Bay Pontevedra. Something
     like its own
     
     bay you, dear Mr. Garcia. As for Vigo,
     
     I am afraid that the bay is more than ambition. With an
     ambition worthy of a bay so beautiful, should consider Vigo Pontevedra
     Vigo as a future neighborhood. The aristocratic neighborhood,
     the official neighborhood some twenty-odd miles of the neighborhood
     commercial! The old district notaries, as that excellent and parish
Mr. Garcia, who, after buying some Bibles to Borrow, said: - if any
Once you have the opportunity to talk about me in print, do not fail
to do so.

     You know my name and title: Mr. Garcia, a notary public
     of Pontevedra ... IX THE PLOUGH Virgiliano If, when writing his
History of the Plough, would have to be limited to Galicia, Dr. Raer,
however wise, however heavy however it was German, had not been able
to fill up twenty pages.

The plow
Galician, as the honest woman, has no history.

It is a prehistoric instrument, whose image is
accurate in some Etruscan tombs and I think in certain currencies
Celtiberian.

     Don Casto Sampedro, a distinguished archaeologist
     
     who spends his life collecting
     
     Celtic and Roman curiosities to the museum of Pontevedra,
     there should be a plow, and with little effort, and would provide
     a nice old
     
     unquestionable in the institution. The cars have
     
     also Galician progressed much more
     
     than the plow. Going forward, its wheels produce a sharp sound
     to be modulated in slow, plaintive inflections. They say that
     this sound encourages the horse and makes them move on. One could
also argue that the new boots noise that is encourages and urges
him to continue his journey ... They say it serves as a horn to warn
cars coming in the opposite direction, and certainly the sound of
new boots would also assign an object very similar ... I have spent
hours and hours listening to the voice of the cars in Galicia.

     It seemed a familiar voice, and she felt and heard her, many
     centuries ago. Chirro d'you a Ponte d'cars Tristes d'Herbon
     
     bells ... sing Cars Galician, and poets sing the song of the cars
Galicia.

     
     Do not you talk
     
     to these poets of mechanical seeders or threshers cars.
     Such gossip would destroy the poetry of the field, and
     
     then there would be literary competitions, or flowers or anything.
     The smart girls, lost all hope that the queen at a party appoint
the gay science, and would make them not a jot of case to the poor
poets, who would have to limit its life to mundane empleíllo of the
tax office or Diputación provincial.

The illustrious son of the province, several times a former minister,
would never come over maintainer grandiloquent speeches, and his aesthetic
opinions would be unprecedented in future ... It would be the ruin
of poetry, and what would be done without poetry in the capitals of
second and third order?

     No. Poets want the truck and plow Virgilian original. I have
     a strong suspicion that if Virgil were alive today, would sing the
threshing machine, but Virgil is dead, and his plow is like a legacy
they had left all his successors.

The plow Virgil!

The
venerable car!

The Arcadian countryside, where the river
gently glide!

     ... Basically, it is possible that the poets are right and that was
     worth more to keep things that way. The bad thing is competition.
     Where the rivers of other parties have fully working and are constantly
moving cargo and transporting turbines, have to prepare our defense.

     With a lazy river and a prehistoric agricultural equipment can not
get nothing more natural than a flower in a provincial literary contest,
a silver inkstand or a collection of the complete works of the Marquis
de Figueroa.

X PROPERTY, ABOGADISMO,
Except POLICY The author of these lines, all Galicians are proprietary.
 Participation in the Meeting
     should be conditional on a cessation of hostilities.)

     2. Peace Conference.--M. Clemenceau considered it to be
     most urgent that the delegates should be set to work. He
     understood that President Wilson would be ready to put on
     the table at the next full Conference, proposals relating to
     the creation of a League of Nations. He was anxious to add a
     second question, which could be studied immediately, namely,
     reparation for damages. He thought the meeting should
     consider how the work should be organized in order to give
     effect to this suggestion.

     Mr. Lloyd George said that he agreed that these questions
     should be studied forthwith. He would suggest that, in the
     first place, the League of Nations should be considered,
     and, that after the framing of the principles, an
     International Committee of Experts be set to work out its
     constitution in detail. The same remark applied also to the
     question of indemnities and reparation. He thought that a
     Committee should also be appointed as soon as possible to
     consider International Labour Legislation.

     President Wilson observed that he had himself drawn up a
     constitution of a League of Nations. He could not claim that
     it was wholly his own creation. Its generation was as
     follows:--He had received the Phillimore Report, which had
     been amended by Colonel House and re-written by himself. He
     had again revised it after having received General Smuts'
     and Lord Robert Cecil's reports. It was therefore a compound
     of these various suggestions. During the week he had seen M.
     Bourgeois, with whom he found himself to be in substantial
     accord on principles. A few days ago he had discussed his
     draft with Lord Robert Cecil and General Smuts, and they
     found themselves very near together.

     Mr. Balfour suggested that President Wilson's draft should
     be submitted to the Committee as a basis for discussion.

     President Wilson further suggested that the question should
     be referred as far as possible to the men who had been
     studying it.

     Mr. Lloyd George expressed his complete agreement. He
     thought they themselves should, in the first place, agree on
     the fundamental principles and then refer the matter to the
     Committee. When that Committee met they could take President
     Wilson's proposals as the basis of discussion.

     (It was agreed that the question of appointing an
     International Committee, consisting of two members from each
     of the five Great Powers, to whom would be referred
     President Wilson's draft, with certain basic principles to
     guide them, should be considered at the next meeting.)

     3. Poland.--M. Pichon called attention to the necessity
     for replying to the demand addressed by M. Paderewski to
     Colonel House, which had been read by President Wilson that
     morning, and asked that Marshal Foch should be present.

     (It was agreed that this question should be discussed at the
     next Meeting.)

     4. Disarmament.--Mr. Balfour called attention to the
     urgency of the question of disarmament, and said that he
     would shortly propose that a Committee should be appointed
     to consider this question.

VILLA MAJESTIC, Paris January 21st, 1919.

This is the minute of January 21, and the Prinkipos memorandum was written on January 22.

     The President then wrote the Prinkipos proposition.

Senator KNOX. Did you make a written report of your mission?

Mr. BULLITT. I did, sir.

Senator KNOX. Have you it here?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir. I might read the report without the appendices.

Senator KNOX. The chairman wants you to read it.

The CHAIRMAN. I do not know whether it is very long. The report he made would be of some interest.
You were the only official representative sent?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir; except Capt. Pettit, my assistant. The circumstances of my sending will
perhaps require further elucidation. I not only was acquainted with the minutes of the discussions
of the council of ten, but in addition I had discussed the subject with each of the commissioners
each morning and I had talked with many British representatives. After the Prinkipos proposal
was made, the replies began to come in from various factions, that they would refuse to accept
it for various reasons. The Soviet Government replied in a slightly evasive form. They said,
"We are ready to accept the terms of the proposals, and we are ready to talk about stopping
fighting." They did not say, "We are ready to stop fighting on such and such a date." It was
not made specific.

Senator KNOX. That was one of the conditions of the proposal?

FRANCE BLOCKS PRINKIPOS CONFERENCE

Mr. BULLITT. It was. That is why I say they replied in an evasive manner. The French--and particularly
the French foreign office, even more than Mr. Clemenceau--and you can observe it from that
minute were opposed to the idea, and we found that the French foreign office had communicated
to the Ukrainian Government and various other antisoviet governments that if they were to refuse
the proposal, they would support them and continue to support them, and not allow the Allies,
if they could prevent it, or the allied Governments, to make peace with the Russian Soviet
Government.

At all events, the time set for the Prinkipos proposal was February 15. At that time nobody
had acted in a definite, uncompromising matter. It therefore fell to the ground.

There was a further discussion as to what should be done. The peace conference was still of
the opinion that it was impossible to hope to conquer the Soviet Government by force of arms,
because in the latter part of that report, which I did not read to the committee, there was
expressed very forcibly the opinion of Mr. Lloyd George, that the populations at home would
not stand it. Therefore they desired to follow up further the line of making peace.

About that time I was working particularly closely on the Russian affairs. I had had a number
of discussions with everyone concerned in it, and on the very day that Col. House and Mr. Lansing
first asked me to undertake this mission to Russia, I was dining at Mr. Lloyd George's apartment
to discuss Russian affairs with his secretaries, so that I had a fair idea of the point of
view of everyone in Paris.

I further, before I went, received urgent instructions from Secretary Lansing if possible to
obtain the release of Consul Treadwell, who had been our consul in Petrograd and had been transferred
to Tashkent, and had been detained by the local Soviet Government and had been kept there several
months. He was one of our Government officers they had seized. Mr. Lansing ordered me to do
everything I could to obtain his release.

I further, before I went, asked Col. House certain specific questions in regard to what, exactly,
the point of view of our Government was on this subject, what we were ready to do, and I think
it perhaps might be important to detail a brief resume of this conversation. The idea was this:
Lloyd George had gone over to London on February 9, as I remember, to try to adjust some labor
troubles. He, however, still insisted that the Prinkipos proposal must be renewed or some other
peace proposal must be made, and I arranged a meeting between him and Col. House, which was
to take place, I believe, on February 24, at which time they were to prepare a renewal of the
Prinkipos proposal, and they were both prepared to insist that it be passed against any opposition
of the French.

I arranged this meeting through Mr. Philip Kerr, Mr. Lloyd George's confidential assistant.
However, on the 19th day of the month, Mr. Clemenceau was shot, and the next day Mr. Lloyd
George telephoned over from London to say that as long as Clemenceau was wounded and was ill,
he was boss of the roost, and that anything he desired to veto would be immediately wiped out
and therefore it was no use for him and Col. House, as long as Clemenceau was ill, to attempt
to renew the Prinkipos proposal, as Clemenceau would simply have to hold up a finger and the
whole thing would drop to the ground. Therefore, it was decided that I should go at once to
Russia to attempt to obtain from the Soviet Government an exact statement of the terms on which
they were ready to stop fighting. I was ordered if possible to obtain that statement and have
it back in Paris before the President returned to Paris from the United States. The plan was
to make a proposal to the Soviet Government which would certainly be accepted.

The CHAIRMAN. These orders came from the President?

Mr. BULLITT. These orders came to me from Col. House. I also discussed the matter with Mr.
Lansing, and Mr. Lansing and Col. House gave me the instructions which I had.

Senator KNOX. You said a moment ago that you went to Col. House to get a statement of the American
position.

WHAT AMERICA WANTED

Mr. BULLITT. Yes; I asked Col. House these questions [reading]:

     1. If the Bolsheviki are ready to stop the forward movement
     of their troops on all fronts and to declare an armistice on
     all fronts, would we be willing to do likewise?

     2. Is the American Government prepared to insist that the
     French, British, Italian, and Japanese Governments shall
     accept such an armistice proposal?

     3. If fighting is stopped on all fronts, is the Government
     of the United States prepared to insist on the
     reestablishment of economic relations with Russia, subject
     only to the equitable distribution among all classes of the
     population of supplies and food and essential commodities
     which may be sent to Russia?

     In other words, a sort of Hoover Belgian distribution plan
     so that the Bolsheviki could not use the food we sent in
     there for propaganda purposes and to starve their enemies
     and to feed their friends.

     The fourth question I asked him was as follows:

     4. Is the United States Government, under these conditions,
     prepared to press the Allies for a joint statement that all
     Allied troops will be withdrawn from the soil of Russia as
     soon as practicable, on condition that the Bolsheviki give
     explicit assurances that there will be no retaliation
     against persons who have cooperated with the allied forces?

     Col. House replied that we were prepared to.

     Further, I asked Col. House whether it was necessary to get
     a flat and explicit assurance from the Soviet Government
     that they would make full payment of all their debts before
     we would make peace with them, and Col. House replied that
     it was not; that no such statement was necessary, however,
     that such a statement would be extremely desirable to have,
     inasmuch as much of the French opposition to making peace
     with the Soviet Government was on account of the money owed
     by Russia to France.

     I further had an intimation of the British disposition
     toward Russia. As I said before, I had discussed the matter
     with Mr. Philip Kerr, and Sir Maurice Hankey and Col. House
     asked me to inform Mr. Kerr of my mission before I went. It
     was to be an entire secret from all except the British. The
     British and American delegations worked in very close touch
     throughout the conference, and there were practically no
     secrets that the American delegation had that were not also
     the property of the British delegation.

THE BRITISH TERMS

I was asked to inform Mr. Kerr of this trip. I told him all about it, and asked him if he could
get Mr. Balfour and Mr. Lloyd George to give me a general indication of their point of view
on peace with Russia; what they would be prepared to do in the matter.

Mr. Kerr and I then talked and prepared what we thought might be the basis of peace with Russia.

I then received from Mr. Kerr, before I left, the following letter, which is a personal letter,
which I regret greatly to bring forward, but which I feel is necessary in the interest of an
understanding of this matter. [Reading:]

     [Private and confidential.]

     BRITISH DELEGATION,
     Paris, February 21, 1919.

     MY DEAR BULLITT: I inclose a note of the sort of conditions
     upon which I personally think it would be possible for the
     allied Governments to resume once more normal relations with
     Soviet Russia. You will understand, of course, that these
     have no official significance and merely represent
     suggestions of my own opinion.

     Yours, sincerely,

     P.H. KERR.

That was from Mr. Kerr, Lloyd George's confidential secretary. Mr. Kerr had, however, told
me that he had discussed the entire matter with Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Balfour, and therefore
I thought he had a fair idea of what conditions the British were ready to accept. The note
inclosed reads as follows:

     1. Hostilities to cease on all fronts.

     2. All de facto governments to remain in full control of the
     territories which they at present occupy.

     3. Railways and ports necessary to transportation between
     soviet Russia and the sea to be subject to the same
     regulations as international railways and ports in the rest
     of Europe.

     4. Allied subjects to be given free right of entry and full
     security to enable them to enter soviet Russia and go about
     their business there provided they do not interfere in
     politics.

     5. Amnesty to all political prisoners on both sides: full
     liberty to all Russians who have fought with the Allies.

     6. Trade relations to be restored between soviet Russia and
     the outside world under conditions which, while respecting
     the sovereignty of soviet Russia insure that allied supplies
     are made available on equal terms to all classes of the
     Russian people.

     7. All other questions connected with Russia's debt to the
     Allies, etc., to be considered independently after peace has
     been established.

     8. All allied troops to be withdrawn from Russia as soon as
     Russian armies above quota to be defined have been
     demobilized and their surplus arms surrendered or destroyed.

You will see the American and British positions were very close together.

Senator KNOX. With these statements from Col. House as to the American position and from Mr.
Kerr as to the British position, and with the instructions which you had received, you proceeded
to Russia, and, as you said a moment ago, you made a written report?

Mr. BULLITT. I did, sir. Do you want it read, or shall I state the substance and then put it
in the record? I think I can state it more briefly if I read the first eight pages of it and
then put the rest of it in the record.

The CHAIRMAN. Very well; do that.

Mr. BULLITT. This report I made to the President and to the American commissioners, by order
of the President transmitted to me on my return by Mr. Lansing. I should like to say, before
I read this report, that of course I was in Russia an extremely short time, and this is merely
the best observation that I could make supplemented by the observation of Capt. Pettit of the
Military Intelligence, who was sent in as my assistant, and with other impressions that I got
from Mr. Lincoln Steffens and other observers who were there.

Senator KNOX. How long were you in Russia?

Mr. BULLITT. For only one week. I was instructed to go in and bring back as quickly as possible
a definite statement of exactly the terms the Soviet Government was ready to accept. The idea
in the minds of the British and the American delegation were that if the Allies made another
proposal it should be a proposal which we would know in advance would be accepted, so that
there would be no chance of another Prinkipos proposal miscarrying.

I might perhaps read first, or show to you, the official text. This is the official text of
their proposition which they handed me in Moscow on the 14th of March. Here is a curious thing--the
Soviet foreign office envelope.

TERMS WHICH RUSSIA OFFERED TO ACCEPT

As I said, I was sent to obtain an exact statement of the terms that the Soviet Government
was ready to accept, and I received on the 14th the following statement from Tchitcherin and
Litvinov. 

The friend is the same, and the drama has not changed a single comma.
- Will premiere in two weeks - says my friend.

The
same, exactly the same thing seven years ago!

The bartender calls me my name: - Hello, D. July!

What are you going to take?

Choose a paella dish as authentic, and I met privately for a long
time. - This paella - see someone who knows - is the same as yesterday.

I think it is the same seven years ago with the same crabs and all.
- And what? - I tell my friends -.

     Speak. Give me news. Academics, are immortal yet? Pío Baroja
     Does it follow as a young writer?
     

     Fulanito, you still be that beautiful future before him? And Jane
     Doe and Zutano and
     
     Mengana, is that they are still a young and beautiful actresses?

     Tell me about politics. The revolution I suppose, like seven
     years ago, one thing is imminent. Spain did not take six months
     or transformed, giving reason to those who, for half a century,
     are announcing this change so fast ... all is well and I,
     that I thought I changed, I also encounter the same as before.

As this cup of coffee rush recovery, as it were, my true nature. A number of things that I believed
in me noticed that grafted fade and go away. I am like that wild Darwin was civilized and who,
upon return to his tribe, he became wild again, losing in a few hours
of contact with his family what he had acquired ten years of effort.

And this coffee is the Puerta del Sol represents eternity. Paris, London,
Berlin ..., the European spirit ... the World War ... All that is
transitory, everything changes and becomes, whereas the coffee remains
unchanged, with the same sofas, with the same waiters, with the same
customers, with the same menu, with the same ideas, with the same
smoke, with same dramas and the crabs themselves.

     III IS ON A STAR My arrival in Madrid had some biblical. Coinciding
     with her, appeared in the sky a shining star. A new star and a new
     bug! To then say that Madrid is not discovered anything! The
     star in question was found by Mr. Roso de Luna, who had already
     found another a few years ago and we had presented familiarly,
     as it could file a Variétés star: "The modest star I've had
     the honor to discover ..." How will you manage Mr. Roso de
     Luna to find as many stars? I have made numerous trips and I have never encountered
     any. It is true that does I searched, ignoring the utility
     that could report me. Mr. Roso de Luna found his star to the
     two or three in the morning, and ran to a newspaper for readers
     of the first edition had news of finding. I do not know how
     much you will be given by the star the popular colleague.

I, in the case of Mr. Roso de Luna, I would have gone with her to
New York and would have offered to Mr. Hearst for any of its numerous
newspapers .

Mr.
     Hearst, who is a specialist in patriotism could then add a star to
the American flag, but perhaps preferred to exploit the new star to
make neon signs.

     
     And if I need to hurry, then, would have been my fate
     to the German embassy in Madrid. Those Germans use it all and
     pay handsomely. I have felt very flattered to see
     that my arrival was going on a new star in the sky of Madrid.
     

     Unfortunately, the new star was something like the new microbe,
     which everyone thought was Spanish and who come from central
     Europe. Just do not find anything completely, or in the region
     of the infinitely small, nor in that of the infinitely large.
     Our new stars and our new microbes are,
     
     more or less as old as our new politicians.

     IV A NEW THEORY OF CLIMATE What is going to you - I ask from abroad
     - in this beautiful country of the sun and the sky blue?
     For in this beautiful land of sunshine
     
     and blue sky we spend our lives taking bromo-quinine to combat
     constipation. Madrid is one of the coldest towns in Europe,
     and it is a very simple reason: the that no heating appliances. In
Paris, and Berlin, and London and St. Petersburg, has been a time
when the climate was extremely cold, but little by little, has been
artificially transformed natural environment in those cities.

     Of course it's not hot atmosphere that offered, for the moment,
     insurmountable difficulties even for the same German chemical.
     Have warmed, however, housing, public facilities, trams
     and cars, etc., Etc. Today we can say that while Madrid shiver
     Berliners and Londoners spend their winters at an average
     temperature of 17 degrees. On the Friedrichstrasse and Oxford
     Street will now certainly cooler than the street of Alcala,
     but not in the houses of Oxford Street or the Friedrichstrasse.
     And because it is in the streets but in homes, where they
     actually live, is that Madrid are inhabitants of a cold country,
while London and Berlin are in hot countries.

     
     With that basis, it could form a theory contrary to that which studies
     the influence of environment on men: the theory of artificial
     means. This new theory would show that the character of each
     country depends on its heating, and such a demonstration would
     be of great importance because it would lead to the following
     conclusion: to eliminate racial differences that separate
     one people from another, and both have contributed to the
     origin of the European war, simply that everyone is hot
     with the same heating procedure
     
     and to make their homes at a temperature equal representation ...
I have enough to justify the theory that is outlined, nor provide
either the necessary time to deal in a matter so momentous and so
little profit, but I did not tell me that Spain, because of its climate,
will always be what it is now.
     

     Do not tell me that in this
     
     country of sun and blue sky men will, for ever and ever, a lazy
     nature, violent and incapable of discipline.
     
     Do not tell me, finally, that the theater of Ibsen is
     not included here because it's never the scene of a foggy country,
and that English laws are so adjusted to the Spanish character as
are the English impervious to the climate of Spain.

     Because Spain is not a hot country nothing more than a
     few months a year, and because, since he invented the electric
     fans and central heating, no hot or cold countries countries.
     The climate no longer exists as a determinant of character
     of men. They are, in contrast, men who influence on climate.
     Acknowledge that, fortunately, Madrid began to be uneasy to improve
theirs.

     V THE TIME AND SPACE I have an urgent matter to be ventilated
     with a friend. Of course, the friend is opposed to ventilate
     it today. - Do you like you see us tomorrow? - Okay.
     What time? - Anytime. After lunch, for example ... I do see
     my friend that's not an hour. After lunch is too vague,
     too elastic. - What time you eat lunch? - I ask. - What what
     time lunch? As the lunch hour when the whole world: a lunchtime
     ... - But what time is lunch time for you? "Noon? "One in the
     afternoon?" Both ... - Over there, over there says my
     friend ...-- -. I lunch from one to two.

     Sometimes I sit at the table about three ... Anyway, at four
     am always free. - Perfectly. Then we could cite us for four.
     My friend nods. - Of course, if I delay a few minutes
     - add - you wait for me.
     
     Who says the four, says a quarter past four or four and a half. In
short, four to five I'll be without fault in the coffee. Do you agree?
"I want to point out: - Let's say five. - What five?

     Very good. At five ... That is, five to five and a half ...
     One is not a train, what devil you Suppose I break a leg ... - Well
     citémonos for five and a half - I propose. So my friend comes up
with a brilliant idea. - Why do not cite us to the cocktail hour?
- suggests. There is a new discussion to set in terms of the cocktail
hour clock. Finally, we agreed to meet seven to eight. The next day
give the eight, and of course, my friend does not appear. Arrives
at half past eight wear their lungs, and the waiter tells you that
I have left. - Not right - exclaims days later when I met on the street
-.

It makes you set a time, it makes you run and it is not
me you wait ten minutes. A half-past eight o'clock I was in the coffee.
And the funny thing is that the indignation of my friend is real.
That the two men cited the eight have to meet at eight, it seems completely
absurd.

The logical thing for him is to see half-hour, three quarters of an hour or an hour later. -
But look you well - I say -. An event is something that has to be so limited in time and space.
What would you say if having quoted me in Puerta del Sol, they learn that I had come to the
meeting in the Cuatro Caminos? Well, that I tell you when, having referred to the eight, I see that you
appear at eight-thirty.

     
     By neglecting the time, you also despise space. And to respect
     the space, why not also save time some consideration? - But
     with this precision, the accuracy, life would be impossible - my friend
says.

How to explain that this accuracy and the precision used On the contrary,
to simplify life?

How do I convince him that, coming on time for appointments, saving much time to spend on what you
want? Impossible.

The Spanish do not come on time for appointments, not because I consider
that time is a precious thing, but, unlike because time is not important
for anyone in Spain.

We are not superior, while we are inferior.

We are not above but below, punctuality.

VI WOMEN exotic Talks In Spain there are talks of men and women.

Issues of church, for example, are women's issues.

Not that the Spanish hate the church.

On the contrary. When he marries a woman seeking religious feelings.

I think women should have religious feelings, and must also have
pretty eyes.

The religious feelings are feelings of women.

Without them, the woman would not be truly feminine.

With women having religious feelings for their own adornment and
dignity of home, husband and satisfied, and goes quietly to coffee,
Variétés theater and even a casino ... Republican politics, however,
is men.

The woman
who talks about politics in a circle of men going through a tomboy,
and the man who talks about politics before a woman is regarded as
little better than if he had spoken to the Linnet policy.

Positively, the Spanish policy is pretty boring.

With this, however, consider it an issue for men alone, it will be more and more. The same political
writers should adopt a style more enjoyable the day that our policy
could comment in the presence of ladies.

But talks men, the most common is the one that concerns about women.

Elsewhere, only if men talk about women.

The constant presence of women prevents it. Before them the topic is useless and impracticable.
What is going to talk about women?

Best is to talk with them.

The Spanish, however, speak of women as they could talk travel: -
I have known a woman once ... And it comes a description reminiscent
of descriptions of exotic countries.

Some people, hearing the story has such a feeling like you're listening
to a browser that tell their adventures on land totally ignored ...
Outside of Spain, nor so much importance men give to women and girls
did not give much importance to the men.

Some others have found that they need each other and have decided to agree. And such an agreement
is imposed in Spain.

For while the agreements were not established, not only Spanish life
is something discordant, but nobody will do anything this way.

The women will be provided for us the most important thing.

VII LAS CASAS can not live in Madrid - a friend tells me -.

Why do not you
do an article on the houses? - It is impossible - I answer -.

How do you want me to do an article on the houses in a place where there are none? But, all things
considered, if any houses in Madrid, no need to write against them.

All defects in the houses of Madrid are condensed into one alone: the shortage. Because you can not
move, the tenant must compromise constantly.

Madrid houses are bad and
are expensive because they are few.

Of course the government could intervene in this matter, but I rely more on a new epidemic that
reduced to fifty percent of the population of our capital.

The houses of Madrid! Some time ago I set out to find me one, and I do not remember ever experienced
more harassment. - Is there heating? - I asked the concierge of a
building where they rented a room floor.

This hypothesis seemed to seriously offend the dignity of woman.
- No, sir - he said with pride -.

Here are the old Spanish ... And when I reached the corner and, after I fired, the concierge made
me retrace my steps. - What? - I cried. - That neither heating nor bathroom - he replied. That
said, the good lady left me standing. On his face was written the satisfaction that always made him
a lesson to any impertinent person. So I dedicated myself to explore the outlying neighborhoods,
where modern buildings. These buildings are so modern that the timber they are built, still
green, it dilates with pleasure the first scents of spring.

Under the veneer of circular wrist feels the sap, and a man - city
and prosaic - fears that the doors were coated with foliage and the
birds come to nest in the hallway.

All these homes have an elevator, and all these lifts have a sign that says: "It does not work."
In one, however, the car had no sign, it made me think very bad of service. - This house is the
not working well - I thought. and she went to the concierge, I questioned
on the subject.

I was wrong.

The elevator was going beautifully, and to prove it, the concierge
told me that three days earlier had killed machinery that perfect
tenant of the third. - Why we have off the floor - he said.

The history of the floor was not very seductive, but a tenant has
to be in Madrid ready for anything. - And how much rent the vacated
apartment? - inquired. - Income thirty dollars, but have risen to
thirty-eight.

What do you expect?

The
flat is very good and has a wonderful lift ... Definitely, we have
no hope of an epidemic to end half of the residents of Madrid.

Of course, if this epidemic attacked the home only, not many people need to die. VIII PATRIOTISM
OF generate tiny I think a popular singer is much more patriotic than a deputy or a senator.
In all of our tiny theaters of gender such thing as a vague belief, very strongly, that the woman
is an invention exclusively Spanish. A foreign women are not recognized category of women. They are
very fat, very little black, little illiterate.

They have an Andalusian accent or shawls, or Roma Grace, nothing ... - I am Spanish, olé!
- Sings a popular singer. And to assert their Spanish, heavily hit the stage with one foot, and
is dedicated for one year, to make flexure of kidneys to the beat
of the music.

Then say where he was born, that is: o in the neighborhood of Wonders, or the Vistillas, or
Triana, or Granada. At times, and the sound of the jack, a popular singer Aragon is declared, but who
has heard from some that he was born in the district of Mr. Rahola? The lowest gender Spain is
very limited, and my province, for example the beautiful province of Pontevedra, so prolific in navigators
in political and crabs, not on it ... - I am Spanish - cupletista
insists.

Then in verses more or less consistent, adds: - Where would be, if not? Where is this grace,
this salt, these wanderings, these makings?

... The public will slowly inflamed in a mixed feeling of patriotism
and enthusiasm for the popular singer. - Viva Spain! - Shouts the
girl at the end. - Viva! - answered several voices.

But I do not think anyone Sagunto or Covadonga.

We have said as the Spain of gender is insignificant: Wonders, Vistillas, Triana, Granada ... If anything,
something of Aragon.

And never Manresa, nor Getafe, or Santa Marta de Ortigueira, or a thousand
other people who pay, however, their contributions to the state and
law-abiding Quintas.

Focela Miss Mary has been introduced into this kind of couplets is
considerable variation .

It seems that his verses
were these: I fight like a lioness, shouting Viva Spain!

And is that through my veins runs the blood of popular song shows Malasaña ... We knew they were
fighting against strange people, we knew of others who fought with
fury, but that Malasaña is quite a find.

The public,
seeing it, has also had to feel in their veins the blood flow of
a heroic, capable of any sacrifice. Viva Spain!

Viva la grace! Mary-Focela Viva! ... HORNS IX THE STRIKE OF FALLEN Undeceive
you - an old fan told me -.

There are no bulls ... The old amateur, like all the old fans, thought
that the bulls are divided into tame and wild, and that the latter
species is extinct.

For my part, I have acquired the belief that all bulls are also tame, and that if the square deal,
sometimes, to kill the fighters, is for the same reason by which bullfighters try - also sometimes
- to kill the bulls: to entertain the public.

Days ago I was in a herd.

The bulls were grazing there in a perfectly bucolic, leaving caress
of cowboys and visitors. - And these are the beasts? - I said. - Man!
- They said -.

What do you do here? Now you will see them in the square ... This assumed that the bull does
not develop its true nature of a beast until you reach the square,
is like imagining that the tiger does not develop his until you take
him to a circus.

If in the interiors of Africa taught us very sociable tigers, and if we say to our amazement that
sociability was natural and that we wait to see tigers in Price,
this answer would seem quite absurd.

For equally absurd it seemed to me the answer I gave in livestock on the
ferocity of the fighting.

No. The bull is not an animal more ferocious than the bullfighter. Is, instead, a peaceful beast who
loves nature and follows a strict vegetarian regimen. Some are left to deal with, and the public are
called brave. Now, however, most seem to go on strike. I have recently seen a bull that, within
two minutes, he realized that everything in the square was organized against
him and adopted an attitude that we call fallen horns.

The bullfighters ran behind him and showing him calling a colorful fabrics with their sweet voices, but
to no avail.

Sometimes, the bull stopped a moment and seemed about to be conquered.
Some bullfighters tempting smile she smiled.

Others sought to arouse his pride ... The bull pondered for a while.

After making a nod as if to say: - No! Never!

... This business is not for me ... And he went his way, oblivious
to all requirements.

It was then that the old
fan told me that there was no bull: - There are no bulls. There is
no emotion.

What a veranito which awaits us!

And I pity, I gave him
what he considered good advice. - Congress Go away - I said -.

An old fan like you there will not too bad. X EXPERIENCES OF A hit by a friend of mine has been
hit by a car. - I had to spend two weeks in bed - I told this friend,
telling the accident - but now they have no choice but to give me
compensation. - Deep Error! - I cried -.

Far from valerte compensation, the outrage will cost you an arm and a leg. I too have been hit - I
added proudly - and thanks to the thing caught me with some money. If I find myself unprepared, at this time
I'd still sobbing bitterly at the bottom of a dungeon.

And to convince him, I told the friend my personal experience. It was in Barcelona, will do nothing
for about two years. They were with me Luis Bello, Eugene Xammar, Wenceslao Fernández Flórez, Gregorio
Martínez Sierra and Anselmo Miguel Nieto, when a car hit me on the street
of the Count of Assault.

The car had a fair speed to run over pedestrians, but, according to
the bylaws, was excessive.

I was transported to a pharmacy, and while
I healed, the chauffeur appeared quite indignant.

The chauffeur claimed that his car had not hit me, but rather, that I had collided with his car.
- You - screaming - you has caught up with us. - But to what end? - I asked myself. To which the
chauffeur made a vague gesture as if to say - I do not know!

Surely it would be a shameful object ... In vain I watch the chauffeur
who was crossing the street from the Count of Assault neither I nor
any of my friends we had been speeding.

The chauffeur insisted, and the spectators were beginning to suspect that I was dedicated to a cruel
man run over by cars like helpless.

In the pharmacy we went to the Emergency and Relief House to the
police station.

I engaged my claim and went to bed, where, after fifteen days, I received a communication from
the Court of shipyards. - Has finally come mine - I thought.

But, reading the communication,
I had a horrible disappointment. The judge quoted me at nine in the
morning to see the status of my wounds, and threatened me, if I did
not keep the appointment, with a fine, imprisonment or punishment
"that would place"

... I am an unrepentant night owl.

For me to get up early have been tried with me all the procedures
from the alarm bell to cold water, but the fine and the prison were
totally original.

What would
become of me if I get up?

And all because in a moment of inattention had let me run over by a car ... I wrote to the judge informing
him of my habits. "Furthermore - he said - why would you see my wounds? If they are cured, not worth
it to you to see, and if not, it will be difficult to leave the bed to go and show them to
you.
 Among the more notable
concessions he has already made are: The abandonment of his plan to nationalize the land and
the adoption of the policy of dividing it among the peasants, the establishment of savings
banks paying 3 per cent interest, the decision to pay all foreign debts, and the decision to
give concessions if that shall prove to be necessary to obtain credit abroad. (Appendix, p. 64.)

In a word, Lenin feels compelled to retreat from his theoretical position all along the line.
He is ready to meet the western Governments half way.

PEACE PROPOSALS

Lenin seized upon the opportunity presented by my trip of investigation to make a definite
statement of the position of the Soviet Government. He was opposed by Trotski and the generals,
but without much difficulty got the support of the majority of the executive council, and the
statement of the position of the Soviet Government which was handed to me was finally adopted
unanimously.

My discussion of this proposal with the leaders of the Soviet Government was so detailed that
I feel sure of my ground in saying that it does not represent the minimum terms of the Soviet
Government, and that I can point out in detail wherein it may be modified without making it
unacceptable to the Soviet Government. For example, the clause under article 5--"and to their
own nationals who have been or may be prosecuted for giving help to Soviet Russia"--is certainly
not of vital importance. And the clause under article 4, in regard to admission of citizens
of the soviet republics of Russia into the allied and associated countries, may certainly be
changed in such a way as to reserve all necessary rights to control such immigration to the
allied and associated countries, and to confine it to persons who come on legitimate and necessary
business, and to exclude definitely all possibility of an influx of propagandists.

CONCLUSIONS

The following conclusions are respectfully submitted:

     1. No government save a socialist government can be set up
     in Russia to-day except by foreign bayonets, and any
     governments so set up will fall the moment such support is
     withdrawn. The Lenin wing of the communist party is to-day
     as moderate as any socialist government which can control
     Russia.

     2. No real peace can be established in Europe or the world
     until peace is made with the revolution. This proposal of
     the Soviet Government presents an opportunity to make peace
     with the revolution on a just and reasonable basis--perhaps
     a unique opportunity.

     3. If the blockade is lifted and supplies begin to be
     delivered regularly to soviet Russia, a more powerful hold
     over the Russian people will be established than that given
     by the blockade itself--the hold given by fear that this
     delivery of supplies may be stopped. Furthermore, the
     parties which oppose the communists in principle but are
     supporting them at present will be able to begin to fight
     against them.

     4. It is, therefore, respectfully recommended that a
     proposal following the general lines of the suggestion of
     the Soviet Government should be made at the earliest
     possible moment, such changes being made, particularly in
     article 4 and article 5, as will make the proposal
     acceptable to conservative opinion in the allied and
     associated countries.

     Very respectfully submitted.

     WILLIAM C. BULLITT.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX TO REPORT

TRANSPORT

Locomotives.--Before the war Russia had 22,000 locomotives. Destruction by war and ordinary
wear and tear have reduced the number of locomotives in good order to 5,500. Russia is entirely
cut off from supplies of spare parts and materials for repair, facilities for the manufacture
of which do not exist in Russia. And the Soviet Government is able only with the greatest difficulty
to keep in running order the few locomotives at its disposal.

Coal.--Soviet Russia is entirely cut off from supplies of coal. Kolchak holds the Perm mining
district, although Soviet troops are now on the edge of it. Denikin still holds the larger
part of the Donetz coal district and has destroyed the mines in the portion of the district
which he has evacuated. As a result of this, locomotives, electrical power plants, etc., must
be fed with wood, which is enormously expensive and laborious and comparatively ineffectual.

Gasoline.--There is a total lack of gasoline, due to the British occupation of Baku. The few
automobiles in the cities which are kept running for vital Government business are fed with
substitute mixtures, which causes them to break down with great frequency and to miss continually.
Almost the entire fleet on the great inland waterway system of Russia was propelled by gasoline.
As a result the Volga and the canals, which are so vital a part of Russia's system of transportation,
are useless.

FOOD

Everyone is hungry in Moscow and Petrograd, including the people's commissaries themselves.
The daily ration of Lenin and the other commissaries is the same as that of a soldier in the
army or of a workman at hard labor. In the hotel which is reserved for Government officials
the menu is the following: Breakfast--A quarter to half a pound of black bread, which must
last all day, and tea without sugar. Dinner--A good soup, a small piece of fish, for which
occasionally a diminutive piece of meat is substituted, a vegetable, either a potato or a bit
of cabbage, more tea without sugar. Supper--What remains of the morning ration of bread and
more tea without sugar.

Occasionally sugar, butter, and chickens slip through from the Ukraine and are sold secretly
at atrocious prices--butter, for example, at 140 roubles a pound. Whenever the Government is
able to get its hands on any such "luxuries" it turns them over to the schools, where an attempt
is made to give every child a good dinner every day.

The food situation has been slightly improved by the rejoining of Ukraine to Great Russia,
for food is relatively plentiful in the south; but no great improvement in the situation is
possible because of the lack of transport.

MANAGEMENT

Such supplies as are available in Soviet Russia are being utilized with considerable skill.
For example, in spite of the necessity of firing with wood, the Moscow-Petrograd express keeps
up to its schedule, and on both occasions when I made the trip it took but 13 hours, compared
to the 12 hours of prewar days.

The food control works well, so that there is no abundance alongside of famine. Powerful and
weak alike endure about the same degree of starvation.

The Soviet Government has made great efforts to persuade industrial managers and technical
experts of the old régime to enter its service. Many very prominent men have done so. And the
Soviet Government pays them as high as $45,000 a year for their services, although Lenin gets
but $1,800 a year. This very anomalous situation arises from the principle that any believing
communist must adhere to the scale of wages established by the government, but if the government
considers it necessary to have the assistance of any anticommunist, it is permitted to pay
him as much as he demands.

All meetings of workmen during work hours have been prohibited, with the result that the loafing
which was so fatal during the Kerensky régime has been overcome and discipline has been restored
in the factories as in the army.

SOCIAL CONDITIONS

Terror.--The red terror is over. During the period of its power the extraordinary commission
for the suppression of the counter revolution, which was the instrument of the terror, executed
about 1,500 persons in Petrograd, 500 in Moscow, and 3,000 in the remainder of the country--5,000
in all Russia. These figures agree with those which were brought back from Russia by Maj. Wardwell,
and inasmuch as I have checked them from Soviet, anti-Soviet, and neutral sources I believe
them to be approximately correct. It is worthy of note in this connection that in the white
terror in southern Finland alone, according to official figures, Gen. Mannerheim executed without
trial 12,000 working men and women.

Order.--One feels as safe in the streets of Petrograd and Moscow as in the streets of Paris
or New York. On the other hand, the streets of these cities are dismal, because of the closing
of retail shops whose functions are now concentrated in a few large nationalized "department
stores." Petrograd, furthermore, has been deserted by half its population; but Moscow teems
with twice the number of inhabitants it contained before the war. The only noticeable difference
in the theaters, opera, and ballet is that they are now run under the direction of the department
of education, which prefers classics and sees to it that working men and women and children
are given an opportunity to attend the performances and that they are instructed beforehand
in the significance and beauties of the productions.

Morals.--Prostitutes have disappeared from sight, the economic reasons for their career having
ceased to exist. Family life has been absolutely unchanged by the revolution. I have never
heard more genuinely mirthful laughter than when I told Lenin, Tchitcherin, and Litvinov that
much of the world believed that women had been "nationalized." This lie is so wildly fantastic
that they will not even take the trouble to deny it. Respect for womanhood was never greater
than in Russia to-day. Indeed, the day I reached Petrograd was a holiday in honor of wives
and mothers.

Education.--The achievements of the department of education under Lunacharsky have been very
great. Not only have all the Russian classics been reprinted in editions of three and five
million copies and sold at a low price to the people, but thousands of new schools for men,
women, and children have been opened in all parts of Russia. Furthermore, workingmen's and
soldiers' clubs have been organized in many of the palaces of yesteryear, where the people
are instructed by means of moving pictures and lectures. In the art galleries one meets classes
of working men and women being instructed in the beauties of the pictures. The children's schools
have been entirely reorganized, and an attempt is being made to give every child a good dinner
at school every day. Furthermore, very remarkable schools have been opened for defective and
over-nervous children. On the theory that genius and insanity are closely allied, these children
are taught from the first to compose music, paint pictures, sculpt and write poetry, and it
is asserted that some very valuable results have been achieved, not only in the way of productions
but also in the way of restoring the nervous systems of the children.

Morale.--The belief of the convinced communists in their cause is almost religious. Never in
any religious service have I seen higher emotional unity than prevailed at the meeting of the
Petrograd Soviet in celebration of the foundation of the Third Socialist Internationale. The
remark of one young man to me when I questioned him in regard to his starved appearance is
characteristic. He replied very simply: "I am ready to give another year of starvation to our
revolution."

STATEMENTS OF LEADERS OF OPPOSITION PARTIES

The following statement was made to me by Volsky, leader of the right social revolutionaries,
the largest opposition party:

"Intervention of any kind will prolong the régime of the Bolsheviki by compelling us, like
all honorable Russians, to drop opposition and rally round the Soviet Government in defense
of the revolution. With regard to help to individual groups or governments fighting against
soviet Russia, we see no difference between such intervention and the sending of troops. If
the allies come to an agreement with the Soviet Government, sooner or later the peasant masses
will make their will felt and they are alike against the bourgeoisie and the Bolsheviki.

"If by any chance Kolchak and Denikin were to win, they would have to kill in tens of thousands
where the Bolsheviki have had to kill in hundreds and the result would be the complete ruin
and collapse of Russia into anarchy. Has not the Ukraine been enough to teach the allies that
occupation by non-Bolshevik troops merely turns into Bolsheviki those of the population who
were not Bolsheviki before? It is clear to us that the Bolshiviki are really fighting against
bourgeois dictatorship, We are, therefore, prepared to help them in every possible way.

"Grandmother Ekaterina Constantinovna Breshkovskaya has no sort of authority, either from the
assembly of members of the all Russian constituent assembly or from the party of social revolutionaries.
Her utterances in America, if she is preaching intervention, represent her personal opinions
which are categorically repudiated by the party of social revolutionaries, which has decisively
expressed itself against the permissibility of intervention, direct or indirect."

Volsky signed this latter statement: "V. Volsky, late president of the assembly of members
of the all Russian constituent assembly."

Martov, leader of the Menshiviki, stated: "The Menshiviki are against every form of intervention,
direct or indirect, because by providing the incentive to militarization it is bound to emphasize
the least desirable qualities of the revolution. Further, the needs of the army overwhelm all
efforts at meeting the needs of social and economic reconstruction. Agreement with the Soviet
Government would lessen the tension of defense and would unmuzzle the opposition, who, while
the Soviet Government is attacked, are prepared to help in its defense, while reserving until
peace their efforts to alter the Bolshevik régime.

"The forces that would support intervention must be dominated by those of extreme reaction
because all but the reactionaries are prepared temporarily to sink their differences with the
Bolsheviki in order to defend the revolution as a whole."

Martov finally expressed himself as convinced that, given peace, life itself and the needs
of the country will bring about the changes he desires.

ARMY

The soviet army now numbers between 1,000,000 and 1,200,000 troops of the line. Nearly all
these soldiers are young men between the ages of 17 and 27. The morale of regiments varies
greatly. The convinced communists, who compose the bulk of the army, fight with crusading enthusiasm.
Other regiments, composed of patriots but noncommunists, are less spirited; other regiments
composed of men who have entered the army for the slightly higher bread ration are distinctly
untrustworthy. Great numbers of officers of the old army are occupying important executive
posts in the administration of the new army, but are under control of convinced communist supervisors.
Nearly all the lower grade officers of the army are workmen who have displayed courage in the
ranks and have been trained in special officer schools. Discipline has been restored and on
the whole the spirit of the army appears to be very high, particularly since its recent successes.
The soldiers no longer have the beaten dog-like look which distinguished them under the Czar
but carry themselves like freemen and curiously like Americans. They are popular with the people.

I witnessed a review of 15,000 troops in Petrograd. The men marched well and their equipment
of shoes, uniforms, rifles, and machine guns and light artillery was excellent. On the other
hand they have no big guns, no aeroplanes, no gas shells, no liquid fire, nor indeed, any of
the more refined instruments of destruction.

The testimony was universal that recruiting for the army is easiest in the districts which
having once lived under the soviet were over run by anti-soviet forces and then reoccupied
by the Red Army. 

That man has won, so what? Do they show something that has earned
the lord?

To the general theory, with the deep law of the thirties and forties,
isolated facts are irrelevant.

Is it to be destroyed with 1,000 pesetas a whole philosophy? - Hey,
give me two dollars - a female voice says. - Ask him to Marquet -
a male voice answered. - Well, look what happened.

... It
has broken the spell - I've been lost and 40,000 pesetas since last
August - a friend tells the beggar. - Forty thousand pesetas?

" And who are you lost? - They
are lost to many.

If I were to eat, I have made the ... A player leaves the seat with
sullen faces. - Did you lose much? - No. Reset bit, but what annoys
me most is to see win friends.

What I miss, pass.

Earning the unknown, pass. To win friends, that, frankly, I despair.

You hear the
voice of the employee, which dominates all others. - Place your bets,
gentlemen ...!

The table is filled with thousands of pesetas.

And then we say that the Spanish money lacks courage and is asleep
in the current account!

III THE POCKET AND THE SPIRIT OF PROPERTY Viewing, Casino, employees
of the gaming tables, I have come to mind reflections of a bear: the
bear Atta Troll, immortalized by Heine.

According to Atta Troll, men are unhappy and vicious animals, and
all his evil stems from the invention of the pockets.

If men do not we use pockets, there would be no selfishness among us would not have ambition,
there would be yours and mine, there would property, there would
be no tyranny ... We would be like a bear of a different kind, serious
and dignified, but dance aficionados.

Unfortunately, one day men invented the pockets, and since then everyone
tries to get in theirs which should be available to all .. .

In the Casino of San Sebastián, employees of the gaming tables without
pockets.

The address of the establishment, as the bear Heine, believes that stripping men pocket is deleted
in them a sense of ownership, and as employees arrive, do they change
their clothes for a few suits, in which there is no way to save a
single penny.

Employees are thus able to handle every night thousands and thousands
of dollars without emotion .

If they had pockets, they would have with them the sense of ownership,
and to think that all that money was borrowed money, they would suffer
terrible torments.

Without pockets, that is, without a sense of ownership, it never occurs to them to be saved a
hard one. They play with the Chinese money would play with the edge of the beach. The records of
1,000 pesetas not tantalize or less or more. His state of mind is equal to the bears, for whom there
is no concept of individual ownership. I think all those attending the
Casino we should follow the example of employees, not ever enter
the game rooms with our costumes habit. Instead of smocking, we should
also get to go to the Casino, a few suits devoid of pockets.

This would not think of ever earn money from the bank and we would
save our own. And, even if we happen not could try, because we would
have left his wallet at home.

Meanwhile, that is, as the abolition
of the pockets did not extend to employees to customers, the thing
will never have the value of a social test.

And is that behind these employees desbolsillados sing the full and colors, you see, imagination,
huge pockets, deep and unfathomable, where money flows in all of us. There is still time we remove
our pockets. And if not now suppress spontaneously, we will delete them soon, as useless ...
A new planetary system IV Four in the morning.

The Casino, which is like saying all San Sebastian, has closed its doors. There is not a single
place open. The serene, only pedestrians in the city, slowly make his footsteps
in the deep silence. San Sebastian is asleep. From my balcony, however, in
the hotel across the street, I see a lighted window.

These lighted windows late at night have always been a great source of
literature, and ultimately constitute a powerful motive detective.

I am interested in both directions. - Who will be in that room? -
I wonder -.

Will a patient who is rolling on his bed of pain? Could it be a miser counting his treasure? Will
it be a holidaymaker in the famous battle with fleas Donostia?

Is it, perhaps, a poet who sacrifices his dream to write on the back
of an unpaid bill, verses and more verses in honor of a loved one does not
exist?

Is it a beautiful admiring herself in the mirror, or will be, perhaps,
a beautiful hardcover ex wrinkles and gray hair pulling?

Will newlyweds? Is it wise? Will it be a German spy ...? I bet he is a player dedicated to the practice
of Kabbalah on a plane of the wheel. The wheel has to be something of a second planetary system.
It's about discovering its laws and to found a science that is, relative
to the wheel, which is astronomy in relation to the universe.

Thousands of men have heroically dedicated to the cause and have made all the sacrifices: the their
intelligence, their time, their rooms ... So far, however, there is a true science of roulette. Players who
claim to scientists, who read the magazine in Monte Carlo and making their positions under a plan, are
nothing more than something akin to the ancient astrologers.

Astronomers do not yet exist roulette. Is my neighbor is a new Giordano Bruno, whom Mr. Marquet will burn
on the terrace of the Casino.

Meanwhile, the laws of the wheel remain a mystery.

"Rotate the ball around the roulette wheel, or spin the wheel around
the ball?

Here's a question that has clear and specific and that, being fundamental, has not found solution
yet. How it could have obtained the other? - Roulette - telling me an amateur - the only truly
perfect human work. Laugh at you from the pyramids of Egypt. Laugh
of the Critique of Pure Reason.

There are only roulette. Thousands and thousands of men have dedicated their efforts to find
fault, and so far they have not found. Some say that yes, it has been found that the wheel is unwavering
with this or which combination, but do not pay any either.

The day
you find a disservice to the roulette, the banks would be ruined, and the spinner would cease. While
roulette is that there has not been discovered the slightest imperfection. And have you seen
what fairness of the roulette wheel? If a hard drive you want to win another, you have 50 100
odds, and if you want to win two dollars, you have a 75. The risk always increases, mathematically,
in proportion to the gain. Nothing is more fair. Nothing is more equitable. If I were a sculptor
and would like to represent equity, should be represented in the
form of operating a roulette croupier ... - A zero roulette - watch
me. - Claro.

A
zero roulette. From as equitable is Roulette has been to put a zero to ensure companies spending
endless. See for yourself. Roulette is the only truly perfect human work ... That said my friend,
but now my enthusiasm exceeds his own. For me, the wheel is more than just a human work. It
is, as I said before, an entire planetary system.

Points are seated around the wheel, and slowly they are now devoid of money. What laws determine the
attraction of roulette on the money of the people? Is my neighbor comes to discover, but in the
meantime, stay in the darkest of mysteries.

You know why the flow and ebb of the sea, you know the course of the sun and the moon, eclipses
are predicted to minutes, but when the wheel starts to spin in one
direction and the ball on the other, no one may suspect whether it
will be on 7 or 13, the first, second or third dozen, red or black,
the passe or manque, the pair or the odd ... And in the twentieth
century, all shaved and smocking dress or tuxedo, one faces the wheel
in the same state of mind in which primitive man was faced with the
enigma of the universe.

V ROUSSEAU AND ANATOLE FRANCE currently only works one theater in San Sebastian. There are no shows.
No dancing. No restaurants night ... not just day. The police, on the slightest pretext, closing
here all places of entertainment and is only to dispute the vacationer
these superhuman powers: nature and Casino.

Jean Jacques Rousseau would experience a serious disappointment to see that the casino is due. Anatole
France, however, for whom civilization is a constant struggle of man against nature, happy smile.
Because there is no doubt: the wheel is much more successful than
the landscape, to be so beautiful landscape of San Sebastian.

Slowly, around the beautiful Easo are running out of customers. The Casino
being robbed all the customers, and this victory is all the more
remarkable because, against the blue sky, green sea, dark forests,
the sun shining and the August and solemn mountains, the address of
the establishment has not only a spinning sphere with 37 numbers.

It is, as it were, the bankruptcy of Nature. In honor of truth, however, worth noting that the
success of the Casino has not been an easy matter.

Nature has made prodigious efforts. Sometimes organized splendid days,
with temperatures ideal delicious and light.

The more friends the Casino then felt wishes go to the other side.
His prior conduct regarding the common mother suddenly appeared to
them as an injustice and experienced anxious to rectify it. - Are
we going to lock us in the Casino on a day like this? - Cried -.

No, never. It would be a shame ... But after lunch, the sky began to cloud. Gossips say that was
the Casino who prepared the cloud. - There is nothing impossible for croupiers - supported.
Of course, that no reasonable person can seriously consider such rumors. What is clear, however,
is that the sky is clouded . One slip of Nature, a moment of weakness, I do not know! So thousands
of people, ably spread by hotels and cafes of San Sebastian, burst into loud cries. - The gale ...! The
gale ...!-- shouted.

Were they hired these people? Nor have I ever believed, but the fact is that all the enthusiasm
for nature is muffled at once. - You see?

If you can not go here ... We are obliged to get into the Casino
... The Monte Igueldo especially so beautiful and so close to the
city, made him a crowd at Casino terrible.

Of course, the Casino would have ended up dominating, but why waste
time? - Since the mountain will not come to me, I will go to the mountain
- thought leadership.

And the direction was to the mountain and got her some horses, and no one looks at the landscape, but horses,
and Nature has succumbed once more.

Today the Casino and do not need any effort to attract the vacationer.

The vacationer belongs entirely. These days he is doing a wonderful time, and yet, around the city
are deserted at all times. Nature has lost prestige in San Sebastian.
She has lost ... roulette.

VI Target player ladronera This is a perfect ladronera - says D. Salustiano -. Not by chance
you win. You're going to see ... D. Takes a form Salustiano 20 pesetas and throws it on the desk.
- Twenty and twenty - cries -. Caballo ... Then turning to me, continues: - It runs 20 pesetas ... This
year I have lost and 15,000. Since there is no repeat of last year ...! Do you know how much
it cost me a joke last year? For duros 7000 fair. You do not gain ever, ever ... The wheel rotates
rapidly. The chances are fired from time to time the ball with a
thud. Suddenly the ball goes into a box and the dealer sings the number.
- Twelve. Red. Manque. Par ... - Do you see? - Sighs D. Salustiano
-. Undoubtedly. There is no humane way to win. And taking eight dollars
in chips, makes them a "street." Nineteen, twenty and twenty-one. -
Eight hard that I will lose - he says -.

You do not gain ever.

There is evidence ... Indeed.

D. Salustiano loses eight dollars. - Are you convinced? - Ask me -. But so that you end up convinced
I'm going to play one hundred pesetas a row. The lose, I know, but never mind ... As D. Salustiano,
San Sebastian is in many people who are ruined to show that it is impossible to win at roulette. Because, of
course, D. Salustiano is firmly convinced of this impossibility. His game is a lesson in experimental
mode for friends and for the spectators. I think in the case of restrain. - Do not play you anymore
- I say -. The show is already done.

The practice has been sufficiently confirmed the theory. It's not worth losing you a hundred pesetas
to persuade a convinced as myself. But D. Salustiano insists. - Is that not only is lost in
general, but you always lose all the time - she exclaims. The row of D. Salustiano included all
six numbers ranging from 13 to 18, inclusive. Exit 16, and D. Salustiano
wins $ 500. I will congratulate him, but I restrain myself. The good
man is puzzled. All its principles are just fell to the ground. D.
Salustiano had a belief in life: that is never won at roulette, and
behold a blind ball, a random incomprehensible, just destroy this
conviction.

What remains now to D. Salustiano? Nothing more than $ 500. In the future, its existence devoid of
any ideal support and will be a barren thing ... - you Juéguese 500 pesetas to a dozen - I advise.
D. Salustiano the plays and loses. Then his face becomes animated again. - Have you seen? -
Tell me -. The row had been an accident that proves nothing. Certainly, there can never win at
roulette. And taking five dollars, the strip on the table: - For employees ... IN THE CORNER OF MILLIONAIRES
I IRON Whenever a Bilbao invites me to eat, I feel that I get to
eat iron.

Iron is the bread of Bilbao. Everything has been here iron in their origin, to the marble and
gold Algorta millionaires.

And the same chacolí, in these lively dinner Bilbao, an effect me as well as ferruginous wine. Constantly
new deposits are reported, sometimes under inhabited houses.



     (7) Any economic blockade imposed by one signatory as
     against another shall be lifted and trade relations shall be
     established, subject to a program of equitable distribution
     of supplies and utilization of transport facilities to be
     agreed upon by the conference.

     (8) Provision shall be made by the conference for a mutual
     exchange of transit and port privileges among the several
     signatories.

     (9) The conference shall be competent to discuss and
     determine any other matter which bears upon the problem of
     establishing peace within the territory of the former
     Russian Empire, including Finland, and the reestablishment
     of international relations among the signatories.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Was this brought to the attention of the President?

Mr. BULLITT. The first night after I got in Col. House went to the telephone and called up
the President right away and told him that I was in, and that he thought this was a matter
of the utmost importance, and that it would seem to be an opportunity to make peace in a section
of the world where there was no peace; in fact, where there were 23 wars. The President said
he would see me the next evening down at Col. House's office, as I remember it. The next evening,
however, the President had a headache and he did not come. The following afternoon Col. House
said to me that he had seen the President and the President had said he had a one-track mind
and was occupied with Germany at present, and he could not think about Russia, and that he
had left the Russian matter all to him, Col. House. Therefore I continued to deal with Col.
House directly on it inasmuch as he was the delegate of the President, and Lloyd George, in
the matter. I used to see Col. House every day, indeed two or three times a day, on the subject,
urging him to obtain action before April 10, which, as you will recall, was the date when this
proposal was to expire.

NANSEN PLAN TO FEED RUSSIA

Meanwhile Mr. Hoover and Mr. Auchincloss had the idea of approaching peace with Russia by a
feeding proposition, and they had approached Mr. Fridjof Nansen, the Arctic explorer, and got
him to write and send the following letter to the President. You doubtless have seen his letter
to the President.

     PARIS, April 3, 1919.

     MY DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: The present food situation in Russia,
     where hundreds of thousands of people are dying monthly from
     sheer starvation and disease, is one of the problems now
     uppermost in all men's minds. As it appears that no solution
     of this food and disease question has so far been reached in
     any direction, I would like to make a suggestion from a
     neutral point of view for the alleviation of this gigantic
     misery on purely humanitarian grounds.

     It would appear to me possible to organize a purely
     humanitarian commission for the provisioning of Russia, the
     foodstuffs and medical supplies to be paid for, perhaps, to
     some considerable extent by Russia itself, the justice of
     distribution to be guaranteed by such a commission, the
     membership of the commission to be comprised of Norwegian,
     Swedish, and possibly Dutch, Danish, and Swiss
     nationalities. It does not appear that the existing
     authorities in Russia would refuse the intervention of such
     a commission of wholly nonpolitical order, devoted solely to
     the humanitarian purpose of saving life. If thus organized
     upon the lines of the Belgian Relief Commission, it would
     raise no question of political recognition or negotiations
     between the Allies with the existing authorities in Russia.

     I recognize keenly the large political issues involved, and
     I would be glad to know under what conditions you would
     approve such an enterprise and whether such commission could
     look for actual support in finance, shipping, and food and
     medical supplies from the United States Government.

     I am addressing a similar note to Messrs. Orlando,
     Clemenceau, and Lloyd George. Believe me, my dear Mr.
     President,

     Yours, most respectfully,

     FRIDJOF NANSEN.

     His Excellency the PRESIDENT,
     II Place des Etats-Unis, Paris.

Senator KNOX, I think that was published in nearly all the papers.

Mr. BULLITT. Yes. In it he proposed that a commission should be formed at once for the feeding
of Russia, because of the frightful conditions of starvation and so on. Col. House decided
that it would be an easier way to peace if we could get there via the feeding plan, under the
guise of a purely humanitarian plan, if we could slide in that way instead of by a direct,
outright statement inviting these people to sit down and make peace. Therefore he asked me
to prepare a reply to the Nansen letter, which I have here.

     PARIS, FRANCE, April 4, 1919. Suggested reply to Dr.
     Nansen by the President of the United States and the
     premiers of France, Great Britain, and Italy:

     DEAR MR. NANSEN: It is the earnest desire of the allied and
     associated Governments, and of the peoples for whom they
     speak, to assuage the distress of the millions of men,
     women, and children who are suffering in Russia.

     The associated peoples desire and deem it their duty
     similarly to assist in relieving the people of Russia from
     the misery, famine, and disease which oppress them. In view
     of the responsibilities which have already been undertaken
     by the associated Governments they welcome the suggestion
     that the neutral States should take the initiative in the
     matter of Russian relief and, therefore, are prepared to
     state in accordance with your request, the conditions under
     which they will approve and assist a neutral commission for
     the provisioning of Russia.

          10.

Mr. BULLITT. I also prepared at the orders of Col. House------

Senator KNOX. What attitude did you take toward the Nansen proposal?

Mr. BULLITT. At first I opposed it. I was in favor of the original plan.

Senator KNOX. You were in favor of the original plan?

Mr. BULLITT. I was in favor of direct, straightforward action in the matter. However, I found
that there was no use in kicking against the pricks, that I was unable to persuade the commission
that my point of view was the correct one. Therefore at the request of Col. House I wrote out
a reply to Dr. Nansen, in which I embodied a peace proposal so that it would have meant a peace
conference via Nansen, which was what was desired.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Was that letter delivered to Nansen?

Mr. BULLITT. No. I gave this reply of mine to Col. House. Col. House read it and said he would
approve it, but that before he gave it to the President and to Lloyd George as his solution
of the way to deal with this Russian matter, he wished it considered by his international law
experts, Mr. Auchincloss and Mr. Miller, and it was thereupon turned over that afternoon to
Mr. Auchincloss and Mr. Miller. Does the Senator desire this document?

Senator KNOX. I do not regard it as material. It was not accepted?

Mr. BULLITT. It was not accepted. What happened in regard to this was that Mr. Auchincloss
and Mr. Miller, to correct its legal language, produced a proposition which was entirely different,
which left out all possibility of the matter coming to a peace conference, and was largely
an offer to feed Russia provided Russia put all her railroads in the hands of the allied and
associated Governments. I have that as well.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Do you object to having that put in the record, Senator Knox?

Senator KNOX. No.

Senator BRANDEGEE. I would like to have that put in. 

The socialization of property in Spain will be earlier than in Galicia,
where there are those who already consider it done.

     In Galicia, the land belongs to everyone, but as soon as a Galician
Ferran transposes the rainfed or irrigated, each step that gives it
costs a lawsuit.

     The Andalusians have a reputation for generous contrary to
     that of Galicia, and it is very possible that this reputation is
     justified. Andalusia is a nation of proletarians, where the spirit
of ownership has not had a chance to spread.

     Galicia, however, is a country where everyone owns something,
     with the exception of some more or less original writer,
     as the author of this
     
     chronicle.
     
     XI THE IMMIGRATION CELTA Is emigration? - a friend tells me -.
     

     But do you believe that emigration is an evil? All money earned
     in America comes from Galicia, then here, to move our industry.
     And not just money that the Indians are circulated among us,
     but also the spirit of progress and tolerance. With his
     absurd accent, saying Bag San Jorge San Jorge instead of bags,
     and so forth, the Galician returning from America are modernizing
     Galicia. Undeceive you. Emigration is good ... I was completely
     disappointed. I think migration is a good, but in this, precisely,
     is wrong.
     

     There are circumstances in which a man has no recourse but to
     be of service to another man if she wants to die: that man
     should do a servant; but, of course, raised the status of a
     state is not enviable. Emigration is good, and this is wrong.
     It is also good out of prison, but would be much better not to
     have entered it. Some people attributed the emigration
     of the Galician Celtic blood to and supports this opinion with the
fact that Ireland, one of the towns where race remains pure Celtic,
is also rich in immigrants.

     I do not want to deny the adventurous spirit of the Celtic race,
     which apparently I have
     
     the honor to belong, but why is this race so adventurous? In
     1845 the Irish potato was weary because of some disease,
     and since then to 1850 over a million Irish fled to the
     United States. The Irish were felt in those years more Celtic
     than ever. Disappeared after the potato disease, and Irish emigration
declined by 80 100. Dear reader, when you see a Celtic immigration,
offer a potato and, in the next, you convert it to a European sedentary.

     Adventure races are due to lack of potatoes, for lack of bread, for
     lack of freedom. The check of their homes to the Jews, the Poles
     and the Armenians, and once they have been cast, seeing them
     run the world , are said to have an adventurous spirit. If indeed
     they do, that God preserve him, because they badly needed
     it ... Emigration is good for Galicia and Spain, but, above all,
     what is to America. For every thousand pesetas in cash that
     migrants send it here, how many there will not work? Unfortunately,
     this work will not produce anything, and emigration continues.

     In Galicia are not just more than women, old people who have already
     returned from America, children waiting to go, chiefs and
     priests. For every magazine that comes to Galicia Madrid, there
     are five or six Argentine magazines. Do not miss in Galicia
     who take their
     
     mate in the afternoon reading Faces and Masks o Mundo Argentino.
     And to me the political separatism does not scare me, but this
     seems practical separatism a very serious thing. BIG XII MEN
     provinces are filled with statues of great men, not counting
     the great women, such as Concepción Arenal and Dona Emilia Pardo
     Bazán. And before this phenomenon, I can not but wonder: -
     Are there many statues because there are many great men, or
     there are many great men to have many statues? Who makes who?
     Is the sculptor is a consequence of the great man, great man
     or a result of the sculptor? Of course, it seems clear that
     large men, if necessary, could, for better or worse, do without
     sculptors. Instead,
     
     the
     
     sculptors would be quite a hurry the day when there was a major strike
men.

     
     A sculptor friend of mine was telling me about how to solve
     your life man, told me recently: - I have enough to do. Before there
was only working in Spain for half dozen sculptors.

Now we work hard over a hundred.

I then remembered Mr. Salaverria and their imprecations against pessimism.
No doubt - I said - Mr Salaverría is right.

We are in a period of great prosperity. How can decay be in a country that produces great men
enough to hire one hundred sculptors day?

     But then it occurred to me that if Spain ceased to produce great men suddenly,
not the hundred sculptors would starve. - A lack of big men - I thought
- would be settled with middle men, little men and even little ones.

     And to put this hypothesis in the future to move it to this there was
only one step.

     
     
     There are great men who make the sculptors, but the sculptors who make
     great men. Gone are the capitals
     
     of provinces and work the article. - But is it possible? - Cry -.

     How are you this mall and without a great man or anything?
     - A great man? - Yes. A great man. An illustrious son of the province.

The
     provinces do not remember any. - Look you well. Do not miss out there
a philanthropist, a hero, a local reporter, even a former minister.

          Usually, you end up choosing the former minister,
          and the sculptor, which is usually prepared bodies
          for former ministers, philanthropists and general
          does nothing to prepare the head and plug. In a city
          whose name does not matter,
          
          the local poet was scrapped because it was a wrong
          and replaced it with a lawyer. - A one-eyed! - said
          the sculptor -.

If I give you a blind,
they would make a magnificent work, but for God's sake, do not you
give me a wrong. - It is the only man to have some merit here.

          
          
          The only worthy of a statue. The sculptor was uncompromising:
          - How will you be worthy of a statue eye? How is
          a wrong to have merit? The wrongs that we are not wary
          we should not still get to have our statue, but to
          acquire a personality thing statuary, we allow ourselves
          to grow a beard
          
          and always dress coat. XIII Who Am I ? Do you know who
          I am? - tells me a man, standing in broad daylight in front of me.

Positively
          I do not know
          
          who this gentleman, but I keep very well so to speak, for I fear
him sad. - I have an idea - I answer -.

His
          face is unknown to me you do not ... -
          
          Look you well ... I look good. - Did not you ever seen faces
          like mine?

"Certainly, I
          have seen faces like that of this gentleman: faces
          with a nose, eyes faces, faces with whiskers ... I've also seen hippie-japa
hats like this hat hippie-japa.

     However, I do not fall. - No doubt - I cry - that I know you, but so
far I can not find the name ... - "So you tell me who can not me
- No, sir ... The man is very sorry.

Could it be, perhaps,
of a man who ignores her marital status and aims to find out by questioning
the other people?

     "Consider this man, perhaps, that being a journalist, I must be better
informed than other people?

Sad case, indeed, that of a
man who does not know who is and who is not you tell?

... I begin to grieve, but the man suddenly recites me your name,
age, occupation, family names and nicknames. - So you know who is?
- Exclaimed. - Of course. - Y then - continue - to what end do you
ask me?

"Do not ask me for information, but did so with an intention trick
perfectly.

I remain somewhat taken aback, and soon after another man appears.
- Hi, - says the other man -.

Do not know who I am - I do not know who you are. - And this - adds, pointing to a colleague -
not "know who it is? - Nope. I do not know who you are, but may be able to inform the District Court.
Since I'm in town, many people have approached me to tell them their
names.

At first tried to please them and made extraordinary efforts in order
to remember well.

Now do not get tired.

This is a local sport that does not interest me much. Faults of other
entertainment, people waiting here for five, ten or fifteen years
for the return of a traveler neighbor to ask who they are.

They want to see if one has memorized during his travels, and, if the snuff, for example, has spoiled
one, then you consider a man terribly proud.

EL CAMINO DE SANTIAGO XIV Anyone who wants to travel by rail to the
thirteenth century do not think of Santiago.

     XIII century as Santiago
     
     is the journey.
     
     Since the car will Coruña, but what a car! Traveling
     
     in it, I had a sense of archaic and primitive thing
     that ever could have had traveling in a stagecoach. It seemed
     as if the racing was a medieval invention, an
invention that had been perfected elsewhere to force centuries, but
which had remained stationary on the road to Santiago.

If I say that when they discovered the body of the Apostle, that
same car had served to drive the first pilgrims to Santiago, I believe
it without hesitation.

In James
wanted to buy newspapers, but there was nothing but Spanish El Correo
and El Debate.

This also gave me an impression of medievalism.

There
was talk of war, and I thought that, as in the thirteenth century,
Santiago had to comment on the European war on the same basis.

What I found was the cathedral art . Nowhere are more advanced medieval cathedrals. The Cathedral of Santiago
could be perfectly in France, England or Germany, next to the factories and laboratories. In the cathedral
of Santiago is not experienced any impression of anachronism. This impression, if not received
before, get later when you ask for train times and tell Villagarcía
a train that only comes out three times a week. XV THE Botafumeiro There
was a time when the fourteen doors of the Cathedral of Santiago is
not closed, day or night.

Constantly came pilgrims from all over the world, which then were
only three.

They came
with their heads tonsured Persians, Greeks who brought his hands
tattooed on the sign of the cross, English, Irish, French, Italians,
Slavs ... Some, mute from birth, the Apostle wanted to grant them
the use of the word, others blind, wanted to see, and many are only
intended to collect an inheritance, as in the Middle Ages used to
collect a legacy imposed as a condition of pilgrimage to Santiago.

Do not miss princes, on the eve of a battle, come and beg the Apostle
military aid against their enemies.

     
     
     Outside the cathedral,
     men, squatting, were piling up around the currencies of all countries.
They were changing, parents of our current bankers.

Inside, pilgrims, grouped by nationality, they prayed and sang.

They sang in their
respective and various Latin phrases were accompanied by their favorite
instruments.

Lyre, castanets, flutes, bagpipes, harps, lyres, trumpets, lyres,
it sounded there, and the Apostle was the miracle of harmonizing it.

Then the pilgrims went to see the relics, led by the lenguajero,
a kind of interpreter hotel, I knew that in several languages stone
crown, knife, hatchet, hat ... Some pilgrims traveling at their expense,
others came begging for charity.

Most arrived broken, dirty, filthy and sick.

Sometimes Santiago went on very serious epidemics, and the Apostle
could not keep doing miracles.

It was then invented the botafumeiro, "King of the incense," as he called Victor Hugo. The botafumeiro
was not originally a liturgical object , but simply a device for disinfection. He was charged
with incense because there was still no carbolic acid.

Those pilgrims who came directly from the depths of Asia, had faith, but smelled really bad,
and tried to isolate a Santiaguesa cloud of incense. If they could,
also had his face smeared with mint oil, and perhaps today, the smell
of peppermint oil, one full of religious invocations and saw in his
imagination, choirs of angels and seraphim ... botafumeiro Great!

Today, that lack of faith keeps him idle, why do not you think the
move through Congress? The discussions were more animated, the botafumeiro
revolve faster.

And instead of procuring an entry or reading the Journal of the sessions,
one would only see from outside, how rose and rose and vanished in
smoke.

XVI pig's head for some time, the pigs in Galicia led a patriarchal
life completely.

They were, perhaps, something immoral were greedy and had some very cunning peasant, but none of
them was contaminated by the ideas of the century. The children of the peasants grew between them,
and sometimes, kids and pigs slept in the same room. Can you imagine anything more Virgilian? In
cities such as Santiago had pigs who got a second floor and then walk out with them among the canons,
the lieutenants of the garrison and Latin students. An English lady who was a few years ago in
the city of St. Paul -the author of Galicia.

The Switzerland of Spain - she asked her hostess if it was true what was said of pigs as animal Santiaguesa
society. - Not only pigs - answered questioned -.

From your window can you see two goats on the floor in front. The owners treat them as members
of the family ... There are still in Santiago Montero Ríos who reminded
the streets leading a herd of pigs.

Later he led voters. Then, deputies ... Yes The pigs had been here a
life completely patriarchal. When they reached the San Martín, bellowing
horribly, and stretched a leg, I was a ham.

They died painfully, but without remorse.

     Never had ambition
     or vanity.

     If they had tried to gain weight, they did not so much as by
     their owners. Fattened for their sausages were tastier and your
     bacon will give more taste to the broth of good families in which
they lived.

     But there are now in Galicia a new generation of pigs. Shortly after
     war broke out, some strange men came here and stirred up the pigs,
chickens and many other pets. - How much are you here for a dozen
eggs? - It seems that the chickens were asked . - And the hams - said,
addressing the pigs - how do you sell?

The pig, an animal very traditionalist, grunted and ignored. The hen
cackled. But those men spoke of foreign markets, where everything
was paid ten times more than here, and today our barnyard animals
and the bedroom have learned and the ways of the world.

     
     Galician pork industry currently has his ideas, nothing more nor
less than if a pig of Chicago.

     
     Soon it will be able to ask to be killed automatically and dissect
it in a scientific way.

     
     The Galician pork patriarchal customs are disappearing. The
     pig progresses. And if this continues, will just recommend
     to our politicians to eat pig's head to see if punched something.
     XVII THE VIEIRA One of the seafood is worthy of esteem scallops.
     Madrid, which knows nothing about provinces , do not eat scallops, which
is a shame. Roasted in the shell, with a clove of garlic and a little paprika,
scallops are much more tasty than those crabs that Madrid celluloid
with his lack seek comfort at sea. In England no triphthong scallop,
scallop is called, and this name, short on vowels, as if to take
away half the pleasure.

     However, the scallop is there, at least as popular as the
     oyster. In France Breton scallops, scallops Armorican, enjoy
     high reputation and are considered a delicacy. And you know
     what the French call them scallops? They call coquille Saint-Jacques,
     or shells of Santiago. Because the scallop is the seafood of
     the Apostle. It is an almost sacred shellfish and other seafood
     are literary, and political means. It is said that when the body
     was taken to Santiago Padrón, a gentleman who wished to accompany
     him came late to the port. The ship and its sails were hoisted
     and lost in the horizon, a sea of gold and silver. Then the gentleman
     made the sign of the cross and boldly launched into the surf.
     For several days the horse was galloping on the seabed,
     to the astonishment of hake and mullet, and when they arrived
     in Iria Flavia, horse
     
     and rider were covered with scallops. Since then, the
     scallop has been the symbol of the pilgrims, and they did
     not have to go look for them under the sea - the gentleman did
     not experience considered conclusive, and there was fear that
     a pilgrim might drown - the Santiaguesa they are selling already
very well prepared.

     At first sold natural shells. After shells made of copper,
     silver, brass, porcelain and jet.

     Still exists in the streets of Santiago Azabacheros, where you see
a facade of the cathedral, and this facade is called the Azabachería.

     And many houses, which once served as inns for pilgrims, are still
recognized as distinctive, a scallop shell carved at the entrance.

Few join seafood, like scallops, so tasty meat to such an illustrious
lineage. Already, long before the Middle Ages, the scallops had served
Aphrodite rising from the sea, to smooth the wet and wonderful hair.

Today Aphrodite combs used considerably more expensive, but this does
not mean anything against the scallop. The scallop is the pecten Veneris
of the ancients, and Art thousand times looking for inspiration in their
simple and beautiful curves.

     By the way, in Galicia, a land of scallops, I feel obliged to make
an apology for this shellfish.

     I think Madrid should
     not ignore it, and keep more time into oblivion would be a disastrous
policy.

If Madrid are not interested in our scallops, how will interested
in our social conflicts?

Undoubtedly, the central policy lacks sensitivity to the provinces. XVIII POLICIES AND LITERARY
VIEWS OF THE ROSARY Upon returning to Madrid, after an absence of
odd months, I am kindly hosted by my good Rosario, half girl and half
housekeeper cook, who arranged my papers and take care of my stomach.
- I give my stomach a bit spoiled by wholesale sauces - I said to
give up his post - and I hope you treat me well.

The stomach is the soul of the writer.

With a bit of acidity or flatulence, I would make a sad and losing
readers literature.

By naming you my cook, I name, in fact, my co-worker. Let me stew
simple, tasty and healthy, and so we will always have the respect
of critics and public acceptance.

Since then, the Rosary puts his five senses in the kitchen. Sometimes, I notice
the disappearance of a dish, but not the fault of the Rosary. - I did
not broke.

It was him. I had it in hand, and fell. It shattered on the floor ... - Must be a case of suicide - I observed
then -. The dish would be desperate poor life.

Other times, the meat is terribly hard, and Rosario said he had not wanted to cook. Truly,
what interest can be soft meat? But despite all, the Rosary is a great girl. I let him read the books
from my friends, and then asked what we think of them. The Rosary is a criterion in literary criticism
has not yet exercised its pernicious influence: a healthy and honest approach. Some authors,
to send their works, they do already devoted to the Rosary, and many
people will lavish laudatory adjectives to ingratiate himself with
her.

Now, returning from Galicia, Rosario told me everything that had happened during my absence.
I had been over a month without receiving letters or read newspapers,
and wanted to restore my contact with urban life. - Do you have killed
many dishes?

Have brought many accounts? What new adventures we have lost a friend
Charlot?

... The Rosary has been answering all these questions and satisfying
my curiosity. - And Government, what government we have now? - Added.
- Government?

I think we have it. - Impossible, Rosario.

More than a month ago I left Madrid, and it is possible that a government
lasts as long.

Surely we have a new government. The Rosary then thought for a moment and said: - Maybe. Actually,
I, ruling or governing each other, do not notice it ... And here I never have the reader, not knowing
if I am ruled by Maura Sánchez de Toca by or Romanones. At home
we do not notice. Potatoes cost the same. The rent does not go down.
The dishes come out well ... IN THE COUNTRY OF THE LITERARY ITEMS
ROULETTE I usually writers turn to "the reader", more or less, and
the servants are addressed to 'Mr'.

Unfortunately, this concept of "the reader" is too vague. In general, the reader has a multifaceted
personality and sometimes no existence.
 Therefore the duty of
     the Government of the United States to its own people and to
     mankind is to refuse to sign or ratify this unjust treaty,
     to refuse to guarantee its settlements by entering the
     league of nations, to refuse to entangle the United States
     further by the understanding with France.

     That you personally opposed most of the unjust settlements,
     and that you accepted them only under great pressure, is
     well known. Nevertheless, it is my conviction that if you
     had made your fight in the open, instead of behind closed
     doors, you would have carried with you the public opinion of
     the world, which was yours; you would have been able to
     resist the pressure and might have established the "new
     international order based upon broad and universal
     principles of right and justice" of which you used to speak.
     I am sorry that you did not fight our fight to the finish
     and that you had so little faith in the millions of men,
     like myself, in every nation who had faith in you.

     Very sincerely, yours,

     WILLIAM C. BULLITT.

     To the honorable WOODROW WILSON,
     President of the United States.

Senator KNOX. Did you ever get a reply to that letter?

Mr. BULLITT. I did not, sir. The only intimation I had in regard to it was that Mr. Close,
secretary of the President, with whom I was lunching, said to me that the President had read
my letter and had said that he would not reply. In connection with that I wrote Col. House
a letter at the same time as follows:

     MAY 17, 1919.

     MY DEAR COL. HOUSE: Since you kindly lent me the text of the
     proposed treaty of peace, I have tried to convince myself
     that some good might come of it and that I ought to remain
     in the service of the Department of State to labor for its
     establishment.

     It is with sincere regret that I have come to the conviction
     that no good ever will issue from a thing so evil and that
     those who care about a permanent peace should oppose the
     signature and ratification of it, and of the special
     understanding with France.

     I have therefore submitted my resignation to the Secretary
     of State and have written the appended note to the
     President. I hope you will bring it to his attention; not
     because he will care what I may think, but because I have
     expressed the thoughts which are in the minds of many young
     and old men in the commission--thoughts which the President
     will have to reckon with when the world begins to reap the
     crop of wars the seeds of which have here been sown.

     I feel sure that you will agree that I am right in acting on
     my conviction and I hope that this action will in no way
     affect the relationship between us which has always been so
     delightful and stimulating to me.

     With my sincerest personal regards, I am, Very respectfully,
     yours,

     WILLIAM C. BULLITT.

     To the honorable EDWARD M. HOUSE,
     Hotel Crillon, Paris.

Senator KNOX. Did you get a reply to that?

Mr. BULLITT. Col. House sent for me, and after that we had a conversation. That was the only
reply that I had. I had a conversation with Col. House on the whole matter, and we thrashed
it all out.

Senator KNOX. Was anything said during this conversation which you feel willing or disposed
to tell us, which will be important?

Mr. BULLITT. I made a record of the conversation. Inasmuch as the conversations which I had
with various members of the commission on the occasion of my resignation touched on a number
of important issues, I kept a record of those conversations, that is, those I had at the time
when I resigned. They are the only conversations of which I made records, and I made them simply
because we did deal more or less with the entire question of the peace treaty. On the other
hand, they are personal conversations, and I hesitate to repeat them, unless the committee
considers it particularly important.

Senator KNOX. I would not press you on the personal conversations which you had with Col. House
after you resigned. I leave the matter to your own judgment. I wondered whether there might
have been something which transpired which you would care to tell us; but I withdraw that suggestion.
I should like to ask you this one question: I suppose your letter of resignation to Mr. Lansing
was merely formal?

Mr. BULLITT. My letter of resignation to Mr. Lansing was a formal letter.

Senator KNOX. You certainly got a reply to that.

Mr. BULLITT. I did, sir. I wrote a formal letter and I got a formal reply, and the Secretary
sent for me the same afternoon and explained that he only sent me a formal reply because it
was necessary, because of the form in which I had put my resignation, and particularly because
I had appended to my note my letter to the President. We then discussed various other matters
in connection with the treaty.

The CHAIRMAN. Are you through?

Senator KNOX. Yes.

The CHAIRMAN. Mr. Bullitt, you put into the record or read here, I think, some extracts from
the minutes of the Council of Ten?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Were you present at any of these meetings?

Mr. BULLITT. I was not, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. The Council of Ten was the first body that was dealing with the treaty generally,
the important body? It was not a special commission?

Mr. BULLITT. No, sir. It was the main body of the conference.

The CHAIRMAN. Yes; it was the main body, and was the one that subsequently became the Council
of Five, and then the Council of Four, and I think at one time a Council of Three?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Well, now, there were records of these meetings, were there not?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. Do you know what disposition was made of those records?

Mr. BULLITT. Mr. Chairman, there were a number of copies for each delegation, and I presume
that there must be a number of copies in this country at the present time; perhaps not.

The CHAIRMAN. You say each delegate had a copy?

Mr. BULLITT. Each plenipotentiary had a copy, and the Secretary of the American Commission
had a copy, I believe, and the assistant secretaries had copies; certainly one of the assistant
secretaries, Mr. Leland Harrison; and Mr. Grew had a copy.

The CHAIRMAN. Did Mr. Lansing have copies while he served on the Council of Ten?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, sir; well, I am quite sure that he did. I am sure that I have seen copies
on the desk of the Secretary.

The CHAIRMAN. Well, they were furnished regularly to every member of the conference?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes.

The CHAIRMAN. We have found some difficulty in getting them; that is the reason I asked.

Senator KNOX. I am informed--perhaps Mr. Bullitt can tell us--that there is a complete set
of minutes in the hands of some individual in this country. Do you know anything about that--perhaps
Auchincloss & Miller?

Mr. BULLITT. I could not be certain in regard to the matter, but I should certainly be under
the impression that Mr. Auchincloss and Mr. Miller have copies of the minutes; perhaps not.
Perhaps Mr. Auchincloss has left his with Col. House. He would have Col. House's copies. Perhaps
they are in this country, perhaps not. But Mr. Auchincloss and Mr. Miller perhaps have those
minutes in their files.

The CHAIRMAN. Undoubtedly there are a number, at least, of those records in existence.

Mr. BULLITT. Certainly, sir.

The CHAIRMAN. That must be the case.

Mr. BULLITT. Certainly, sir. Also records of the meetings of the American Commission.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Do you know whether or not they are in the State Department--any of these
minutes or records in our State Department?

Mr. BULLITT. I should presume that in the normal course of events they would be certainly among
Mr. Lansing's papers, which were very carefully kept. He had an excellent secretariat.

The CHAIRMAN. Did any member of our delegation, any member of the council of 10, express to
you any opinions about the general character of this treaty?

Mr. BULLITT. Well, Mr. Lansing, Col. House, Gen. Bliss, and Mr. White had all expressed to
me very vigorously their opinions on the subject.

The CHAIRMAN. Were they enthusiastically in favor of it?

Mr. BULLITT. I regret to say, not.

As I say, the only documents of the sort that I have are the memoranda of the discussions that
I had after I resigned, when we thrashed over the whole ground.

The CHAIRMAN. Those memoranda of consultations that you had after you resigned you prefer not
to publish? I am not asking you to do so.

Mr. BULLITT. I think it would be out of the way.

The CHAIRMAN. I quite understand your position. I only wanted to know--I thought it might be
proper for you to say whether or not their opinions which you heard them express were favorable
to the series of arrangements, I would call them, that were made for the consideration of this
treaty.

Mr. BULLITT. It is no secret that Mr. Lansing, Gen. Bliss, and Mr. Henry White objected very
vigorously to the numerous provisions of the treaty.

The CHAIRMAN. It is known that they objected to Shantung. That, I think, is public information.
I do not know that it is public information that they objected to anything else.

Mr. BULLITT. I do not think that Secretary Lansing is at all enthusiastic about the league
of nations as it stands at present. I have a note of a conversation with him on the subject,
which, if I may, I will just read, without going into the rest of that conversation, because
it bears directly on the issue involved.

This was a conversation with the Secretary of State at 2.30 on May 19. The Secretary sent for
me. It was a long conversation, and Mr. Lansing in the course of it said:

Mr. Lansing then said that he personally would have strengthened greatly the judicial clauses
of the league of nations covenant, making arbitration compulsory. He also said that he was
absolutely opposed to the United States taking a mandate in either Armenia or Constantinople;
that he thought that Constantinople should be placed under a local government, the chief members
of which were appointed by an international committee.

This is a matter, it seems to me, of some importance in regard to the whole discussion, and
therefore I feel at liberty to read it, as it is not a personal matter.

The CHAIRMAN. This is a note of the conversation made at the time?

Mr. BULLITT. This is a note which I immediately dictated after the conversation. He expressed
the opinion that Mr. Knox would probably really understand the treaty-- [Laughter.] May I reread
it?

He expressed the opinion that Mr. Knox would probably really understand the treaty, and that
Mr. Lodge would; but that Mr. Lodge's position would become purely political, and therefore
ineffective.

[Laughter.]

The CHAIRMAN. I do not mind.

Mr. BULLITT (reading):

He thought, however, that Mr. Knox might instruct America in the real meaning of it.

[Laughter.]

The CHAIRMAN. He has made some very valuable efforts in the direction.

Mr. BULLITT. I beg to be excused from reading any more of these conversations.

Senator BRANDEGEE. We get the drift.

[Laughter.]

I want to ask one or two questions.

The CHAIRMAN. Go ahead.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Did you read any of these minutes of the meetings of the American commission?

Mr. BULLITT. Of the American commission itself?

Senator BRANDEGEE. Yes.

Mr. BULLITT. No, sir. I have on one or two occasions glanced at them but I never have read
them carefully.

Senator BRANDEGEE. They were accessible to you at the time, were they?

Mr. BULLITT. They were, sir.

Senator BRANDEGEE. You stated, if I recall your testimony correctly, that when the proposition
was made that the legislative bodies of the contracting parties should have representation
in the assembly, the President objected to that?

Mr. BULLITT. The President--if I may explain again--approved in principle, but said that he
did not see how the thing could be worked out, and he felt that the assembly of delegates,
or whatever it is called in the present draft, gave sufficient representation to the peoples
of the various countries.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Do you know what his objection was to the legislative bodies of the contracting
parties having representation on the assembly?

Mr. BULLITT. The President believed, I think--in fact, it was so stated to me by Col. House,
who discussed the matter with me--that it would make too unwieldy a central organ for the league.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Do you understand why it would be any more unwieldy if Congress should appoint
the delegates than if the President should?

Mr. BULLITT. It would necessitate a larger central body if representation was to be given to
the important political parties of the various countries. It would have necessitated a body
of, say, 10 representatives from the United States--5 from the Republican party and 5 from
the; Democratic Party, in the assembly of the league, which would become a large body.

Senator BRANDEGEE. The idea was that the political parties of the country should be represented?

Mr. BULLITT. Yes, the political viewpoints should be represented so that you would get some
connection between the central assembly of the league and the true opinion of the countries.

Senator BRANDEGEE. When you went across to Paris on the George Washington with the President
do you know whether he had with him at that time any draft for a league of nations or any memorandum
that he showed to you of discussed with you?

Mr. BULLITT. The President outlined to several of us one evening, or rather one afternoon,
the conception he had at the time of the league of nations. It seems that the union will make
a terrible revolution, but the two centuries of trade unionism, the world will be, more or less as
now. A strong union will want to dominate others, they declare war and die a million men of iron,
coal men, men and men maché celluloid ... Undoubtedly, there is a big difference between men classify
offices or classify by race, religions, languages and customs.

And not only is there a big difference, but it is the same. In fact, men are not sorted not by race,
religion, language or customs. And historians have classified long after they had made their
own classification but the first men ever were classified according
to trade, neither more nor less than if they had heard or Noy tab
of Sucre.

The fishermen gathered to settle on the banks of rivers or lakes build cities,
the hunters went to the forest .

The modern nationalities are not only a direct result of that early trade unionism. And for this I think it
is not hard to imagine the outcome of the current union. IV Bolshevism, INFECTIOUS DISEASE poilus When
first entered German territory, many French were alarmed. - Germany
- said - this one smells of Bolshevism.

To see if our soldiers are caught and then extend it here ... And
it is that for the vast majority of people, Bolshevism is nothing
but an infectious disease.

 Did the others have anything similar to what is now article 10 in the treaty
pending in the Senate?

Mr. BULLITT. I really can not say. I am sorry, but I have forgotten. I should not care to testify
on that.

Senator BRANDEGEE. Do you know from what you heard while you were there in your official capacity
whether the other nations were anxious to have article 10 in the covenant for the league?

Mr. BULLITT. The French were not only anxious for it, but I believe were anxious greatly to
strengthen it. They desired immediately a league army to be established, and I believe also
to be stationed in Alsace-Lorraine and along the Rhine, in addition to article 10. I can not
say for certain about the others.

The CHAIRMAN. Mr. Bullitt, we had before us at one of our hearings a representative of the
Egyptian people. Do you know anything about that, when it was done, or any discussions about
it? I mean the clauses that appear in regard to the British protectorate. 

Would not surprise me that some of them committed his ... It is very
beautiful single man's freedom, but when one is becoming a bit old
and began to suffer from stomach, he misses a loving hand him well
in sapa the bed and serve cups of broth.

It is also very beautiful the status of a freelance writer, but not at election time. At election
time, who does not feel the desire for a political party, a party loving that gives a district and a broth
you give the young wife? Al go out and get his hat, his stick and gloves, These days one has the feeling
that something is missing yet, and what it lacks is a district. Then, in the usual chat, so all the
friends start talking about their respective districts, the man who
has no district is something of a pariah.

The waiters serve them anyway. The boots do not go to your requirements ... Life without district has
come to seem as an unbearable burden. I imagine that people on the street pointing at me saying:
- There's a man who has no district. And therefore I requesting an address to the reader. After all, a district
is given to anyone. Make the reader a little effort. I need a district, and I need it for every
need.

V SPAIN, parliamentarism EMPORIO What is meant by a very MP? In Spain,
for a parliamentary man is enriende a man who has a lot parliament.

Mr M, for example and the Count of Romanones very parliamentarians are men. It is also quite parliamentary
Mr. García Prieto. And I, who at first glance do not look anything
parliamentarian, I am, however, considerably more than most of the
Spanish: I have many friends deputies, I can have coffee in Congress,
I can use the parliamentary franking ... When Mr. Maura dissolved
the Parliament, said it was because being a parliament man, would
not approve the budget on the backs of national representation.

The national representation was then datista Romanones, Albistar, socialist,
etc., and Mr. Maura Maurista needed a national representation in
order not to govern the country back, but according to him.

He needed a parliament, finally, not to say it was a ruling unparliamentary.

And as it needed a Parliament, Mr. Maura - and who says Mr. Maura
said Mr. Doe - was devoted to it .

First, the head of government elected candidates.

Then, the voters chose candidates. And within days, Mr. Maura will own
Parliament, as well as some gentlemen have a home theater.

"Who said that here is ruled arbitrarily, regardless of tastes or hobbies
of the country? here is not such a thing.

The country has shed his blood to get the parliamentary regime, and respectful of the national will,
to each government to Parliament we give here your question. In the
same period of time, no nation has had so many parliaments and Spain.
Spain is undoubtedly the most parliamentary village in the world.

VI THE
NEW MINISTERS When the present government falls, our expenditure
budget will be burdened with a few more layoffs. For people to ask
ministers new, what is meant by a new minister?

For a new minister does not mean a young minister or a minister other than the other ministers,
but a man who is minister for the first time. A new minister is usually an old secretary, a governor
or a general old man ... The Marquis de Mochales came to minister and died, but this unfortunate
event will be unique in our history.

Most politicians do not perceive filled his ambition to reach ministers.
Being a minister is not, in fact, be nothing.

A minister is at the mercy of the moderating power, at the mercy of the press, at the mercy of parliamentary
opposition, at the mercy of the world. In contrast, a former minister
is at the mercy of anyone. The portfolios and the layoffs are passed.

And this, far from dying after they have sworn in, that is when most
of the ministers begin to live. "Ministers new?

No. Never.

A minister once again used and two or three months is converted into a
former minister. There are countries in a strong economic life that
can afford to frequent changes of ministers, as well as a rich man's
car changes frequently, but we we are not in the same case.

If every new layoff severance annul an old woman! If when Mr. Prado Palace,
for example, be declared former minister, former ministers ceased
to be the Marquis de Lema or Bugallal Count!

... But today, what we need is to get along with former ministers
today.

They are old, very old, as old as the same parliamentary system are
bad and are old fashioned, but we do not assume any new spending.

     Well preserved, these former ministers can take yet another quarter
century or another half century, which in Spanish politics represents
not think much.

     

     And when they die at all - beyond the year 1950 - then
     you can think of replacing them with some young men, and D. Melquiades
Alvarez, for example, or Dr. Simarro ... AN ARTICLE VII MINISTERIAL
If I were a ministerial writer, what item would about the last election!

     We have been defeated in the big cities -
     
     say - but this does not surprise us. Big cities are real
     pockets of corruption, where they lose entirely the feelings of
     humility, obedience and love of the past. Almost every literate Madrid,
and although a strong censure silenced the writers of bad press,
solvents ideas always find way to reach the brain where the village.

     Undoubtedly, illiteracy is worth a thousand times more than censorship.
     The whole art of radical writers man crashes into the field, healthy
man in body and mind, who can not read or you need to work the land
of his lord and to give the vote to the candidates in the order.

     And voted man of the field ministerial candidacy. We have succeeded
     in the field, where there are still the venerable traditions
     of our ancestors, to the doctor, not contaminated by foreign
     theories, good blood to his patients, as in days of our grandfathers;
     where the poor are resigned to being poor as the blond
     is resigned to be blonde, which prohibits the priest grabbed
     and dance the liberal newspapers are read, and which respects
     the order, property, the clergy and the civil guard . We
     have succeeded in the field and have failed in the cities.
     

     Is there anything more significant? Because cities
     are left in the hand of God. In Madrid, the youth spend their lives
dancing aliens dancing, drinking and foreign drinks - a thousand
times more abominable thing - reading foreign books.

     Now she has given the people of Madrid to put in the bath houses
     and lift, and this will be very pleasant for the body, but
     it must be fatal to the soul. Baños, bookstores, major hotels,
     political rights, an Athenian, a House People ... Is it that
     our greatest need none of these things? Days ago, when Madrid balconies
     adorned with all sorts of hangings in tribute to the Heart
     of Jesus, we believed that the capital of Spain and did not regret
     their mistakes amendment. The election showed us that this assumption
was false.

     Undoubtedly, the Spaniard is keen to have a pretext hangings
     for display, and whatever the pretext of the exhibits, but
     this show, purely decorative, never has an ideological character.
     Madrid is lost, and with it are lost every major city
     Spanish. The public libraries have lost, the press,
     running water, cosmopolitan hotel, the telegraph, the
     telephone, the theaters, places of recreation, are becoming
     vehicles for sinful thoughts, and so many other inventions of
     this century damn . (For a writer antiministeriales
     
     ministerial
     
     all things are the invention
     
     of this century.) Votarnos How could they? Our defeat shows that we
have nothing to do with this time of social dissolution.

     
     
     We represent the venerable traditions of our elders. We
     are the past. We are the years of Nanita ... VIII THE DECEPTION
     OF THE CRISIS Every time a government falls, I experience
     a feeling of liberation. The air seems purer, the women more
     beautiful, the food more tasty. - Has taken odd jobs - he
     exclaimed - but at last we are free. We have no government.
     We have realized our dream ... Unfortunately, it is our
     nature never failing to realize the present happiness. That
     is why happiness is unattainable, and therefore, end
     up working out all the ministerial crisis. After two or three days,
     the Government dropped is always replaced by another, and
     again you have to devote to the task of demolishing. Totaling
     the various crises that, little by little, we get, only if Spain
will come to life a year a month without government.

     A twelve months! Not worth it.

For my
     part, I will never help to bring down any government,
     and then ensure that I will not replace it with another.
     Even more so when the other is certain that we had also had to knock
it down earlier. I do not see why you may want to a single man, who
exercises a profession, which will govern Dato or Mr. Maura, Mr. García
Prieto or Mr. Sánchez de Toca. Probably much more interested these gentlemen
to govern me I can never interested me that I govern them. And if a
people can not live without government - the premise that while I
will give no value, as now, can not live with him - and if people
can not live without government, and if governments are "a necessary
evil," then, at least, we must demand that the crisis will last a
little longer.

     A crisis of three or four days is not worth the effort required
     to boot the blue bench these
     
     ministers seem limpets. IX ACTION POLICY OF SHELLFISH begins a change
     in Spanish politics. Until recent days, politicians used to be,
     between us, a man in the province of Pontevedra, a personal
     friend of the Marquis de Riestra and father of a numerous
     family. When a countryman of mine had no job and could not do
     anything to let him live on their land, if he had enough
     money to go to Buenos Aires, came to Madrid and spent
     a minister. For myself I can say that this summer, sailors
     in my town called me nothing less than
     
     a school group, those simple people knew that I lived in Madrid
     and I could not imagine living in anything but a minister,
     which, after all, showed a certain logic. If, indeed, most of my
     countrymen living in Madrid were not ministers or former ministers,
     how do you manage to pay the landlord? Is it that Mr. García
     Prieto, for example, the court would hold writing articles
     for The Sun? But now, to get a minister, and not enough being born
in the province of Pontevedra, and starts to become essential to
be Catalan.

     And this is the changes that began in Spanish politics. At first
     glance, it seems that this is a superficial change, and perhaps
     it is not, in fact, a profound transformation. However, I
     think that between the politician Galician and Catalan political
     difference is a much more important than the accent. The
     worst of the Galician politician was his amazing ability to reproduce.
     Born at the foot of the Rias Baixas, those politicians are
     reproduced as sardines.
     

     After fifteen years, every minister had given birth to five ministers,
     ten deputies, and ten general managers and twenty princes, excluding
subordinate employees.

     Everyone knows the fertility of the province of Pontevedra, which
     is one of the most populated, if not the most populated of Spain.

This fertility often attributed to seafood, and if the explanation
is accurate, seafood come to be after all, the real culprits of nepotism
Spanish.

Nepotism
     Spanish or oysters, crabs and barnacles of the low laugh!
     

     ... The Catalan politicians do not seem to play as much as
     politicians from Galicia, and this is , by itself, a great
     advantage for the country. Do not eat,
     
     perhaps, a lot of seafood in Catalonia, or is the Mediterranean
     seafood worth less than the Atlantic?

On the other hand,
     do we know all the political possibilities Catalan seafood?
     Had someone in Spain to study politics with a truly scientific approach,
I propose this problem, which I consider a major interest, but unfortunately
theres no really serious political treatise.

     X ARRAS "When insubordination manifested in Barcelona or in another province
     - said the general Aznar - only proceed energetically dominates
     and makes it into law. "" If necessary - he said - is sweeping
     the population ... " I think these words of General Aznar
     have every category of a project, and I am surprised to see
     that some newspapers reject it without taking the trouble to
     study it technically. Because of course
     
     if any difficulty exists in Spain to harass people, I think
     it is a purely technical difficulty. That to imagine that the
     Government can not sweep Barcelona on grounds of moral, political
     or legal, shows, in my opinion, a profound ignorance about razing.
     The difficulties of this triple character have little importance
     in the country of La Cierva and Sanchez Guerra. However, technical
difficulties are in the country of these gentlemen, something really
serious.

          And, sitting this, I believe we should
          put aside considerations idle, and beg the general
          Aznar not to develop its plan.

When
          the General Aznar, who occupies a position in the
          Army so high, has hinted at the idea of wiping Barcelona
          to subdue unruly elements, is that, certainly, this
          idea is feasible. However, general: we need
          a budget. We want to know how long and how much money
          it would compromise his honor to do in Barcelona a sweeping way.

     The German Army, a formidable and material direction of the first
     order, took four years to lay waste to the satisfaction of
     Kaiser
     
     Reims, and being Reims one of the richest cities of France, invested
in destroying as much as what she was worth.

     
     Of course we are not as demanding as the former Kaiser.
     

     Accustomed to numerous resignations, we'll probably settle
     for a much larger devastation than the city of Reims,
     but what that would cost us arrasamientito? The case is that,
     to avoid the remote possibility of losing Barcelona once,
     we will not really lose twice, first leveled, and second,
     investing in the money it cost razing the building. On the
     other hand, Barcelona is an urgent problem, and if the devastation
     can last fifty or sixty years, I do not think that constitutes
     an effective solution. I guess the general Aznar will appreciate
     the difference between those papers that have received manifestations
     of Senate with a clamor sentimental, and I, who focused seriously
     on the ground of reality. Razer Barcelona! What no doubt that this
     will end once and for all with all questions
     of Barcelona? The downside, as I say, are the practical difficulties.
     Sometimes arguing with a friend, not making him take my views I've
     felt the desire to raze it, and if I held back, it was not,
     on moral grounds, but precisely because of technical difficulties.
     And it is - to put it in a phrase worthy of the Upper House,
     where he General manifestations Aznar - that "individuals are
     as people, and people are as individuals."
     
     XI THE CONGRESS, A forty degrees the other day with a heat of forty-something
degrees, I was in Congress.

     I had never seen the Spanish policy to such a high temperature.
     Some Members, lying in their seats, seemed decaying corpses.
     It smelled bad. - Certainly - I thought - the Parliament is not a
summer show.

     For summer we have bullfights, which are done outdoors. And
     she went to a deputy friend: - Why do not you close? - I said.
     - Close? - Cried -. And the legislative work ahead, is going
     to make the goalkeepers? - Man! In case of trouble ... - All
     become diatribes against the deputy in this country - said
     my friend - and the deputy is a martyr. You see to the French
     members. Not content with winning fifteen thousand francs
     a year, want to be duplicate diets. The Spanish deputy, however,
     far from receivables, pay. Do you know how much I have cost
     me the election? Twenty thousand duros. This demonstrates the
     love of country. And here I am in the middle of August, breathing
     the tainted air. - It is the air of politics. I had heard
     of him, but he had never breathed.
     

     When I read in a newspaper that tainted air of our policy, believed
     that it was a sentence. Now I breathe it physically and I realize
that it is mephitic. - Sometimes smells like garlic. - That smell
is democracy.

     It is the very essence of parliamentary government. Do
     not speak ill of him ... The fans spinning at full speed but to
     no avail. There is evidence that Spanish policy, subject to
     a temperature of forty degrees, it breaks down completely.
     It may happen the same with the British policy, for example, but
     when the thermometer forty degrees in London? Definitely,
     we must close the Congress if we do not want to be declared
     in Madrid, and then spread throughout the
     
     world,
     
     a Hispanic new
     
     epidemic. And then open it later, always open on time. XII
     OPTIMISM I do not know if the reader has noticed my attitude
     to the future of Spain. Until now, this attitude has come to
     be that of a skeptic, a man without faith or no hope.

     
     The Conservatives promised us a revolution from above,
     and I smiled incredulously, the Republicans and Socialists
     would announce a revolution from below, and I turned to smile
     with the same incredulity. - This can not go on - tell me
     -. This has to be transformed fatally. The whole world is
     transformed, and Spain is not on the moon, but in the world
     ... It was all useless. In the end, I had an idea and that
     Spain was not in the world, but on the moon. I did not believe
     in the future of Spain. I was a skeptic ... I was a skeptic, dear
     reader, but I'm not. My skepticism was a cause and this cause just disappeared.
     

     Money is to be abolished gradually. It does not count much
     now. Private capital has been confiscated, most of the rich
     have left Russia, but there are still many people there who
     have hidden away money or valuables, and live on them
     without working. They can buy food and even luxuries, but
     only illegally from peasants and speculators at the risk of
     punishment and very high prices. They can buy, also, at the
     government stores, at the low prices, but they can get only
     their share there, and only on their class or work tickets.
     The class arrangement, though transitory and temporary--the
     aim is to have but one class--is the key to the idea of the
     whole new system.

     There are three classes. The first can buy, for example,
     1-1/2 pounds of bread a day; the second, three-quarters of a
     pound; the third, only one-quarter of a pound; no matter how
     much money they may have. The first class includes soldiers,
     workers in war, and other essential industries, actors,
     teachers, writers, experts, and Government workers of all
     sorts. The second class is of all other sorts of workers.
     The third is of people who do not work--the leisure class.
     Their allowance is, under present circumstances, not enough
     to live on, but they are allowed to buy surreptitiously from
     speculators on the theory that the principal of their
     capital will soon be exhausted, and, since interest, rent,
     and profits--all forms of unearned money--are abolished,
     they will soon be forced to go to work.

     The shock of this, and the confusion due to the strange
     details of it, were, and they still are, painful to many
     minds, and not only to the rich. For a long time there was
     widespread discontent with this new system. The peasants
     rebelled, and the workers were suspicious. They blamed the
     new system for the food shortage, the fuel shortage, the
     lack of raw materials for the factories. But this also was
     anticipated by that very remarkable mind and will--Lenin. He
     used the State monopoly and control of the press, and the
     old army of revolutionary propagandists to shift the blame
     for the sufferings of Russia from the revolutionary
     government to the war, the blockade, and the lack of
     transportation. Also, he and his executive organization were
     careful to see that, when the government did get hold of a
     supply of anything, its arrival was heralded, and the next
     day it appeared at the community shops, where everybody
     (that worked) got his share at the low government price. The
     two American prisoners we saw had noticed this, you
     remember. "We don't get much to eat," they said, "but
     neither do our guards or the other Russians. We all get the
     same. And when they get more, we get our share."

     The fairness of the new system, as it works so far, has won
     over to it the working class and the poorer peasants. The
     well-to-do still complain, and very bitterly sometimes.
     Their hoardings are broken into by the government and by the
     poverty committees, and they are severely punished for
     speculative trading. But even these classes are moved
     somewhat by the treatment of children. They are in a class
     by themselves: class A,--I. They get all the few
     delicacies--milk, eggs, fruit, game, that come to the
     government monopoly--at school, where they all are fed,
     regardless of class. "Even the rich children," they told us,
     "they have as much as the poor children." And the children,
     like the workers, now see the operas, too, the plays, the
     ballets, the art galleries--all with instructors.

     The Bolsheviks--all the Russian parties--regard the
     communists' attitude toward children as the symbol of their
     new civilization.

     "It is to be for the good of humanity, not business," one of
     them, an American, said, "and the kids represent the future.
     Our generation is to have only the labor, the joy, and the
     misery of the struggle. We will get none of the material
     benefits of the new system, and we will probably never all
     understand and like it. But the children--it is for them and
     their children that we are fighting, so we are giving them
     the best of it from the start, and teaching them to take it
     all naturally. They are getting the idea. They are to be our
     new propagandists."

     The idea is that everybody is to work for the common good,
     and so, as the children and the American prisoners note,
     when they all produce more, they all get more. They are
     starving now, but they are sharing their poverty. And they
     really are sharing it. Lenin eats, like everybody else--only
     one meal a day--soup, fish, bread, and tea. He has to save
     out of that a bit for breakfast and another bit for supper.
     The people, the peasants, send him more, but he puts it in
     the common mess. So the heads of this government do not have
     to imagine the privations of the people; they feel them. And
     so the people and the government realize that, if ever
     Russia becomes prosperous, all will share in the wealth,
     exactly as they share in the poverty now. In a word, rich
     Russia expects to become a rich Russian people.

     This, then, is the idea which has begun to catch the
     imagination of the Russian people. This it is that is making
     men and women work with a new interest, and a new incentive,
     not to earn high wages and short hours, but to produce an
     abundance for all. This is what is making a people, sick of
     war, send their ablest and strongest men into the new,
     high-spirited, hard-drilled army to defend, not their
     borders, but their new working system of common living.

     And this is what is making Lenin and his sobered communist
     government ask for peace. They think they have carried a
     revolution through for once to the logical conclusion. All
     other revolutions have stopped when they had revolved
     through the political phase to political democracy. This one
     has turned once more clear through the economic phase to
     economic democracy, to self-government in the factory, shop,
     and on the land, and has laid a foundation for universal
     profit sharing, for the universal division of food, clothes,
     and all goods, equally among all. And they think their
     civilization is working on this foundation. They want time
     to go on and build it higher and better. They want to spread
     it all over the world, but only as it works, As they told us
     when we reminded them that the world dreaded their
     propaganda:

          "We are through with the old propaganda of
          argument. All we ask now is to be allowed to prove
          by the examples of things well done here in
          Russia, that the new system is good. We are so
          sure we shall make good, that we are willing to
          stop saying so, to stop reasoning, stop the
          haranguing, and all that old stuff. And especially
          are we sick of the propaganda by the sword. We
          want to stop fighting. We know that each country
          must evolve its own revolution out of its own
          conditions and in its own imagination. To force it
          by war is not scientific, not democratic, not
          socialistic. And we are fighting now only in
          self-defense. We will stop fighting, if you will
          let us stop. We will call back our troops, if you
          will withdraw yours. We will demobilize. We need
          the picked organizers and the skilled workers now
          in the army for our shops, factories, and farms.
          We would love to recall them to all this needed
          work, and use their troop trains to distribute our
          goods and our harvests, if only you will call off
          your soldiers and your moral, financial, and
          material support from our enemies, and the enemies
          of our ideals. Let every country in dispute on our
          borders self-determine its own form of government
          and its own allegiance.

          "But you must not treat us as a conquered nation.
          We are not conquered. We are prepared to join in a
          revolutionary, civil war all over all of Europe
          and the world, if this good thing has to be done
          in this bad way of force. But we would prefer to
          have our time and our energy to work to make sure
          that our young, good thing is good. We have proved
          that we can share misery, and sickness, and
          poverty; it has helped us to have these things to
          share, and we think we shall be able to share the
          wealth of Russia as we gradually develop it. But
          we are not sure of that; the world is not sure.
          Let us Russians pay the price of the experiment;
          do the hard, hard work of it; make the
          sacrifice--then your people can follow us, slowly,
          as they decide for themselves that what we have is
          worth having."

     That is the message you bring back, Mr. Bullitt. It is your
     duty to deliver it. It is mine to enforce it by my
     conception of the situation as it stands in Russia and
     Europe to-day.

     It seems to me that we are on the verge of war, a new war, a
     terrible war--the long-predicted class war--all over Europe.

     The peace commission, busy with the settlement of the old
     war, may not see the new one, or may not measure aright the
     imminent danger of it. Germany is going over, Hungary has
     gone, Austria is coming into the economic revolutionary
     stage. The propaganda for it is old and strong in all
     countries: Italy, France, Spain, Belgium, Norway,
     Sweden--you know. All men know this propaganda. But that is
     in the rear. Look at the front.

     Russia is the center of it. Germany, Austria, Hungary are
     the wings of the potential war front of--Bolshevism.

     And Russia, the center, has made a proposition to you for
     peace, for a separate peace; made it officially; made it
     after thought; made it proudly, not in fear, but in pitiful
     sympathy with its suffering people and for the sake of a
     vision of the future in which it verily believes. They are
     practical men--those that made it. You met them. We talked
     with them. We measured their power. They are all idealists,
     but they are idealists sobered by the responsibility of
     power. Sentiment has passed out of them into work--hard
     work. They said they could give one year more of starvation
     to the revolution, but they said it practically, and they
     prefer to compromise and make peace. I believe that, if we
     take their offer, there will be such an outcry of rage and
     disappointment from the Left Socialists of Germany, Italy,
     France, and the world, that Lenin and Trotsky will be
     astonished. The Red Revolution--the class war--will be
     broken, and evolution will have its chance once more in the
     rest of Europe. And you and I know that the men we met in
     Moscow see this thus, and that they believe the peace
     conference will not, can not, see it, but will go on to make
     war and so bring on the European revolution.

     But your duty, our duty, is to point out this opportunity,
     and to vouch for the strength and the will and the character
     of Lenin and the commissaires of Russia to make and keep the
     compact they have outlined to you. Well, this is the
     briefest way in which I can express my full faith:

     Kautsky has gone to Moscow. He has gone late; he has gone
     after we were there. He will find, as we found, a careful,
     thoughtful, deliberate group of men in power; in too much
     power; unremovable and controlling a state of monopoly,
     which is political, social, economic, financial; which
     controls or directs all the activities, all the fears, all
     the hopes, all the aspirations of a great people. Kautsky
     will speak to revolutionary Russia for revolutionary
     Germany, and for a revolutionary Europe. There will be an
     appeal in that; there will be a strong appeal in that to the
     revolutionary Russian commissaires. But, if I am any judge
     of character, Lenin and his commissaires will stand by their
     offer to us until Paris has answered, or until the time set
     for the answer--April 10--shall have passed. Then, and not
     until then, will Kautsky receive an answer to his appeal
     for--whatever it is the Germans are asking.

     It is not enough that you have delivered your message and
     made it a part of the record of the peace conference. I
     think it is your duty to ask the fixed attention of your
     chiefs upon it for a moment, and to get from them the
     courtesy of a clear, direct reply to Russia before April 10.

REPORTS OF CAPT. W.W. PETTIT

(The reports of Capt. Pettit are here printed in full, as follows:)

     REPORTS OF CAPT, W.W. PETTIT

     I left Petrograd on March 31. During the past three weeks I have
     crossed the Finnish border six times and have been approximately
     two weeks in Petrograd. I have met Tchitcherin, Litvinov, and
     most of the important personages in the communist government of
     Petrograd (including Bill Shatov, chief of police).

     Briefly, my opinion of the Russian situation is as follows:
     In Petrograd I presume the present communist government has
     a majority of the working-men behind it, but probably less
     than half of the total population are members of the
     communist party. However, my conclusions are based on
     conversations with not only communists, but also many
     opponents of the communist government, members of the
     aristocracy, business men, and foreigners, and I am
     persuaded that a large majority of the population of
     Petrograd if given a choice between the present government
     and the two alternatives, revolution or foreign
     intervention, would without hesitation take the present
     government. Foreign intervention would unite the population
     in opposition and would tend to greatly emphasize the
     present nationalist spirit. Revolution would result in
     chaos. (There is nowhere a group of Russians in whom the
     people I have talked with have confidence. Kolchak, Denikin,
     Yudenvitch, Trepov, the despicable hordes of Russian
     emigrees who haunt the Grand Hotel, Stockholm; the Socithans
     House, Helsingfors; the offices of the peace commission in
     Paris, and squabble among themselves as to how the Russian
     situation shall be solved; all equally fail to find many
     supporters in Petrograd.) Those with whom I have talked
     recognize that revolution, did it succeed in developing a
     strong government, would result in a white terror comparable
     with that of Finland. In Finland our consul has a record of
     12,500 executions in some 50 districts, out of something
     like 500 districts, by the White Guard. In Petrograd I have
     been repeatedly assured that the total Red executions in
     Petrograd and Moscow and other cities was at a maximum
     3,200.

     It may seem somewhat inconsistent for the Russian
     bourgeoisie to oppose allied intervention and at the same
     time fail to give whole-hearted support to the present
     government. They justify this attitude on the grounds that
     when the two great problems of food and peace are solved the
     whole population can turn itself to assisting the present
     régime in developing a stable efficient government. I
     
     THE WAR ON THE ROLE If the
     
     Germans lost the war, it was not because of the critical-Germans.
     Germanophiles Critics have fought so ardently as the most heroic
     German soldiers. Fabian Vidal and Manuel Aznar can say it was
     hard work to dislodge the Germanophiles critical of certain positions.
     It destroyed the last nests of machine guns, Ludendorff ordered the
withdrawal and the Allied armies advanced, but Armando Guerra did
not surrender so easily.

     In their maps, the German line remained intact up to three or
     four days later. When German troops obtained some success,
     scoring German critics as a success as their own, and in its newspapers
     increased their salary. - I am moving in Russia in Serbia and
     Romania
     
     - had to tell your director -. I missed all the critical parts
     of the run, and I think this is worth the two hundred hard ...
     In 1916, critics came to
     
     enter Germanophiles Verdun in Verdun itself, and if you then
     left the square, was simply because the Crown Prince did not
     follow, and the poor were there alone, with no contact with the German
army ... They fought like heroes Germanophiles critics, but lately,
things they have left something wrong, and I'm afraid they lower the
wages for the same reason by which it rose one day.

In
     vain attempt to justify himself. One of them recently said that
     the Allied advance without merit because, as confessed French, the Germans
     were short of weapons. But why were short of weapons the Germans?
     Simply because the Allies were taken over four thousand barrels since
last July.

Suppose
     I throw a knife on the reader. The reader back to the beat, and begins
     to wrestle with me until she is disarmed. Then I attack with
     my own knife, I ran away, and El Debate, discussing the incident,
     writes: "The flight of Mr. Camba does not constitute
     success for any reader, because Mr. Camba was unarmed
     ..." II THE PEOPLE GAS LACRIMANTES One of the things that have
     helped him to Germany is the love of music. People do not
     believe that Germans could be cruel. - What will be cruel! -
     People say -. Some men were so tender! So sweet!

     So musical! ... They are very musical, in fact, the Germans.
     The fiercest persecutor of Armenians would mourn him touching
     a melody. Unfortunately, it is likely to continue pounding
     the Armenian while the music played. The sensitivity to music is
     to me much more value than an awareness of onion juice. If you
     can be a test of goodness, this goodness will never pass
     
     from
     
     being a low and primitive goodness.
     

     The missionaries and explorers used to touching the accordion at
     African cannibals in order to see if they were civilized,
     but use the
     
     same procedure to test the goodness German, frankly, I find
     something offensive. The Germans are tender,
     
     sweet, are musical and cry at the movies. I remember, about German
     tenderness, one Christmas I spent in Berlin. The patron of my guest
     house he had bought a pine tree that tenants were commissioned
     to decorate with colored glass vials with cotton wool with
     ribbons of silver and gold, with light bulbs, with sequins and
     all that cheesy sentimental to there was so fond. On a
     table were the gifts that each guest is made to others.
     I had been given a seven-colored tie, a pack of sixty 'pfening
     ", a volume of poems by Schiller, braces and a plaster sculpture
     group, representing Psyche and Love The time has solemn. The tree
     was lit, and the landlady saw a large jug of hot wine with spices.

We started bawling all around the pine: - Weinachtsbaume ... Weinachtsbaume
... Little by little, getting drunk and full board was moved, and
after an hour, everyone was crying her eyes out there.

     "Kindness? Wine? Music? "Stupidity? ... What I know is I took
     my tie, my pack, my volume of Schiller, my braces and my
     sculpture of Psyche and Love and I disappeared. He seemed
     so gentle environment unworthy of central Europe. I thought I was
     lowered into it. Besides, I did not believe that goodness is
     characterized by soft or by moisture. He knew my neighbors, and
     that they were falling tears or mucus was for me just as if they
     had attacked the hiccups. How many of these men have then taken part
     in the abuse of Belgium? And who knows if any of them shall also
     participated in the bombardment of Paris! ... The Germans are fond
     of music as the Chinese are fond of opium. People are sad and crying.
     I symbolize this sort of sentimentality that is merciless
     spirit in one of his latest inventions of war gases lacrimantes.
     III If the Germans had won After the war we have not solved anything.
     We expect disaster revolutions, wars,
     
     desolations and fierce evils. - Do you
     
     see? - tells me a Germanophile -. If the Germans had won, none of this
would not happen. And the fact is that, for the first time since
August 14, this Germanophile is right.

     If the Germans had won, in fact, the problem of nationalities
     would be a conflict because we would all be Germans. We would all
     be Germans, and it is possible that we were all blond. And all
     men being German, not only would not have international
     conflicts, but also would not have private discussions. We
     would all have the same ideas. The philosophers would
     run for us, and who can doubt that the ideas made at the universities
are always better results than those made at home?

     The citizen would provide ideas as well as sausages. The question
     of languages - Polish, Armenian, Catalan, etc .-- disappear altogether
     because everyone
     
     speak German. All things are classified. Dogs are banned from
     barking, and the Socialists would be denied use of the word. In
     public parks have benches for children, benches for nannies, some
benches for the elderly, and may also have special benches for candidates
Parliament: the children of three years, when they were tired of playing,
they would go from bank to bank, and spectacles, would study the different
signs: - Am I a candidate? - Manolín wonder -.
     

     Am I a babysitter? ... If the Germans had won, the individual
     would have nothing to do, and the German state take care
     of everything. One charged, and the state would lead one money.
     One would smoke, and spit by State one. In Spain, it is unlikely that the
situation had not changed much.

     We should also, surely, Maura government and a regime of censorship,
but as all Europe would be on similar terms, not an exception.

     
     What order, what peace, what peace of the world if, instead of winning
allies, they would Germans triumphed!

So no one had turned against the winners.
Now, however, even the Germans themselves will have to be really
revolutionary.

     

     
     BOOK IV THE FUTURE A newspaper, and certainly not a supporter
     of the Allies newspaper,
     
     speaking of the destruction of Germany, said: "It is useless for the
     Germans intend to protest. cry like
     
     women that have failed to defend like men !...» seems, however, that the Germans
did not cry like women that have failed to defend as men.

     Rather, they dance, sing and drink it with great joy. According
     to the Daily Mail - in a letter from its correspondent in Berlin
     - the former sports capital of the empire and in its
     best days. Germany is falling apart, and the men who only months
     ago he sacrificed everything for her, today I spent the fox-trot
     their remaining energy. - Is it possible such depravity? -
     Ask the reader. And I, who have lived two years between
     Germans, I answer: - Yes, it is possible. It is possible ...
     because there is depravity. At the beginning of the war, many
     people did not
     
     believe the Germans were capable of bombing defenseless
     cities or to sink passenger ships. I do not think so.
     Not that I had the worst German concept that my partners,
     but had a different concept. My partner assumed that for a German
     to a child killed in the war that Germany needed to be a
     villain.

     I, however, believed that a German could kill children without
     ceasing to be an excellent father and a man sensitive to
     the emotions of the highest character. Some women even put on
     the summit of Mont Blanc, as I said do not know who would be inaccessible,
     women who have fallen a thousand times and whose soul, however,
     pure guess that a girl of six years.
     
     Not seem to ever find out.

     For the psychology
     
     of these women could possibly serve to explain that German with
     a rose between the pages of a book of poems would tenderly
     to forty kilos drop bombs on the roofs of Paris ... Now,
     while Germany falls apart, Berlin is burning at parties.
     "Depravity? Nope. What happens is that the Germans have not yet heard
     the outcome of the war. They know that their army has been defeated,
     they know that the Kaiser has abdicated; know all this
     vague and confused, but know nothing
     
     more. Within twenty years However, things will change radically.
By that time, a wise teacher will have published a huge work in many
volumes very big, considering the war, not only in its military aspect,
but in its social aspect, in its political aspect, in its economic
aspect and in all its aspects.

     Probably the first part of this work will be devoted to the
     wars of ancient times, when there was still Germany. Maybe
     the author will also made a careful
     
     study
     
     on the catapult,
     
     considering it as a source of mortar 42. And then, a whole generation
of Germans calará glasses, clear night will study and find out exactly
what happened to their homeland since the 1914 and 1918.

     Everyone knows that the Germans do not usually laugh jokes
     until twenty-four hours after hearing them, when "they see
     the end." Twenty years from now you will also see the end to the
     war in Europe and break to mourn. Weep weep in verse and music.
     Cry all the violins, harps all, all the pipes, all saxophones, bass
     all the former empire. Germany full cry, and cry a lot, but
     cry later. And meanwhile, at the Palais des Dances, Germany
     laughs at a hundred frames per hour. I PHYSICIANS IN DEFENSE
     OF COLD Madrid Medical Congress was apparently a of the best medical
congresses held in the world, and from now on, our learned doctors
will curárnoslo all: cancer, tuberculosis, leprosy, blindness, spinal
cord softening, etc., etc. All right, gentlemen doctors!
     

     Admirable! But what do you say cold? Because I'm not softened,
     
     nor am I blind, or suffer from leprosy, or suffer from tuberculosis
     
     or cancer I have none. However, I am almost always cold and
     
     do not understand why you have to treat with such contempt. Many times,
fed up with coughing and sneezing, I have come to you in consultation.
Auscultation You have me, have asked me if I get tired going up stairs,
to which I replied that, of course, I get tired much more than the
lower, have forced me to breathe hard, and finally, with a gesture
of infinite disdain, they said: - Bah ... You have no more than a
cold ... a cold!

     And I thought I was in possession of a major disease!
     ... Deeply embarrassed, I Then I took my hat and I have taken to
     the streets, lost in bitter reflections. - The failure is clear
     - I said to myself -. What I come now to face friends? But I'm
     tired, and on behalf of all mankind a cold, ask for a
     cold science attention and respect of families. I agree that
     tuberculosis is more dramatic than the cold, but I demand
     that the cold was also given a certain category. If a cat is
     the tiger of the poor, as I said do not know who, cold beginner
     is tuberculosis. It is a modest tuberculosis, tuberculosis little money
     for people who can not leave work or go to the mountains
     to drink milk and fresh air. Why this cold contempt at a time
     so democratic? I suspect it is simply because doctors do
     not know a cure. And it is useless for me to speak of cancer, leprosy,
     tuberculosis, etc. While the doctors do not cure colds,
     I do not
     
     believe in medicine. II's virtuosity SURGERY A friend
     of mine he had to operate for appendicitis. - I'll be
     ruined - told me - but I will have no but to turn to a great surgeon.

     He was a dear friend, and I was alarmed. - Do not do such a thing - he
     answered -. Contact a medicucho anyone. Contact a tailor. Contact
     
     a barber or a cabinetmaker, but do not call you to a great surgeon. The
     great surgeon you consider the appendix as well as a violin virtuoso
     can consider the Kreutzer Sonata, and a very artistic way, I
     will kill you ... I've seen it work once a master of surgery. Surrounded
     by a chorus of fans went to a marble table, where, conveniently drugged,
     lay the sick. The virtuoso took tweezers and a scalpel and addressed
     us. - For most of the surgeons - she explained - this operation does
     not offer any difficulty. It is a simple operation, which is determined
     for a long time and that can make anyone without the slightest
     danger. You will understand, however, that after meeting here with
     such good friends, I will not disappoint their expectation. The surgical
possibilities are endless for every doctor who has blood of artist,
and I will prove this patient tested with an unprecedented procedure
and completely personal.

     
     
     It is a dangerous procedure, no doubt, but therein lies its charm.
     You know, gentlemen, I do not draw back the danger ... And,
     with a nod to Thuillier, the great surgeon was launched on the sick,
     who, under the influence of chloroform, had begun to sing
     a peteneras. Fans could not contain himself and broke into
     applause. - Are you going to see how fast I come from - said
     the great surgeon -. The entire operation is reduced to three
     strokes. Splash! Splash! Splash! ...
     
     The great surgeon made three strokes and the patient stopped
     singing. - You will pulse
     
     - an aide noted.

     
     Another
     
     assistant grabbed with tweezers
     
     poor man's tongue, and began to pull it desperately, but to no
     avail. Soon after the patient had died. - What a pity! - Said
     one. - Really! - Exclaimed another, that it might be myself
     -. This small detail clouds yet the success of the operation
     .. . The Prince of surgery washed his hands, and if anyone
     ever washed their hands like Pilate, was precisely the man.

We went
     outside, but as usual, there was not a guard ... Dear reader
     Let me give you the same advice that I favored and the friend from
     whom I have spoken. ... Freedom of having smallpox pegárselas
     Freedom neighbor ... Freedom of spit ... Freedom to chop down the
     trees ... How vigorously defend these freedoms Spanish!
     - Undeceive you - a friend told me before the vaccine mandatory
     - Spain is the most liberal country in the world. Here you can do
what he wants ... - I do not - I said -. You. You can do here what he
wants, and you can do Mr. La Chica and a few other gentlemen, but
I do not.

There is no
possibility for everyone to do what ever you want, and if you make
your desire to you, it is because a lot of gentlemen we can not do
ours ... In the case of vaccine most of the neighborhood seem to consider
it as a tyranny, and considering that the vaccine is tyranny, is not
far from believing that smallpox could be freedom.

Or does it, indeed?

     From the point of view of microbes, no doubt, but from our point
     of view, the thing is already rather more debatable. For my
     part, I feel like a real smallpox imposition of victims who have
been making us our governments.

Smallpox
     was in Spain the mandatory vaccine that is now, and nobody
     protested against it. The people were resigned
     
     to accepting the situation and were resigned to suffer
     from typhus and chieftaincy.
      Doubtless part of this attitude
     is due to the favorable impression created by Mr. Bullitt,
     but much of it must be the result of information which they
     have secured from the press. At the present moment the
     United States has the opportunity of demonstrating to the
     Russian people its friendship and cementing the bonds which
     already exist. Russia believes in us, and a little
     assistance to Russia in its present crisis will result in
     putting the United States in a position in Russia which can
     never be overthrown by Germany or any other power.

     16. Social work.--I have recently sent a cable from
     Helsingfors regarding health and sanitary conditions in
     Petrograd, a copy of which I am attaching. I have spent the
     past two weeks visiting schools and the children's home in
     Petrograd. There are 30,000 children for whom homes have
     been provided in the past nine months, and preparations are
     being made to house 10,000 more. Homes of emigrés are being
     taken over and groups of 40 children placed in them under
     the care of able instructors; where the children are old
     enough they go to school during the daytime. A beautiful
     home life has been developed. The children are well fed and
     well clothed, and there is a minimum of sickness among them.
     At the present time, when so much disease exists in
     Petrograd, and when there is so much starvation, the healthy
     appearance of these thousands of children, together with the
     well-fed condition of children who are not in institutions,
     but are receiving free meals in schools, is a demonstration
     of the social spirit behind much of the activities of the
     present government. I shall send later a more detailed
     statement of some of the interesting things I have learned
     about this phase of the activities of the new regime.

     17. Conclusion.--In this rather hastily dictated
     memorandum which Mr. Francis is going to take tonight to
     Paris I have tried to point out some of the things that have
     interested me in Petrograd. Naturally I have emphasized the
     brighter side, for the vast amount of absolutely false news
     manufactured in Helsingfors and Stockholm and sent out
     through the world seems to me to necessitate the emphasizing
     of some of the more hopeful features of the present
     government. Naturally the character of the Russian people
     has not changed to any great extent in 18 months, and there
     is doubtless corruption, and there is certainly inefficiency
     and ignorance and a hopeless failure to grasp the new
     principles motivating the government on the part of many of
     the people. A people subjected to the treatment which
     Russians have had during the last 200 years can not in one
     generation be expected to change very greatly, but
     personally I feel the present government has made a vast
     improvement on the government of the Czar as I knew it in
     1916-17. Without doubt the majority of the people in
     Petrograd are opposed to allied intervention or revolution
     and wish the present government to be given a fair chance to
     work out the salvation of Russia. One of the most hopeful
     symptoms of the present government is its willingness to
     acknowledge mistakes when they are demonstrated and to adopt
     new ideas which are worth while. Personally I am heart and
     soul for some action on the part of the United States
     Government which will show our sincere intention to permit
     the Russian people to solve their own problems with what
     assistance they may require from us. STOCKHOLM, April 4
     1919.

SOCIAL WORK IN PETROGRAD

The wife of Zinoviev, Madame Lelina, is in charge of the social institutions in the city of
Petrograd. This does not include the public schools, which are under another organization.
Madame Lelina is a short-haired woman, probably Jewish, of about 45. She has an enormous amount
of energy, and is commonly supposed to be doing at least two things at the same time. The morning
I met her she was carrying on two interviews and trying to arrange to have me shown some of
the social work she is directing. There seemed to be little system about her efforts. Her office
was rather disorderly, and her method of work seemed very wasteful of time and effort, and
very much like the usual Russian way of doing things. Bill Shatov, formerly organizer of the
I.W.W., who is commissar of police for Petrograd and also commissar for one of the northern
armies, introduced me to Madame Lelina, and accompanied me the first day on our visits. We
were guided by a young woman by the name of Bachrath, who is a university graduate and lawyer,
and since the legal profession has fallen into disrepute, has turned her efforts toward social
work.

Under her guidance I spent three days visiting institutions. I saw a boarding school for girls,
a boarding home for younger children, an institution for the feeble-minded, three of the new
homes organized by the Soviet Government, and two small hospitals for children.

The institutions which Madame Lelina is directing are in two groups: First, those which she
has taken over from the old Czar regime, and second, those which have been founded in the last
18 months. The new government has been so handicapped by the difficulties of securing food
and other supplies, by the sabotage of many of the intelligent classes, and by the necessity
of directing every energy toward carrying on hostilities against the bourgeoisie and the Allies,
that there has been little opportunity to remodel the institutions inherited from the previous
régime, therefore neither the strength nor the weakness of these institutions is to any great
extent due to the present régime. Two of the institutions I visited were of this type, one
happened to be very good and the other very bad, and in neither case did I feel that Lelina's
organization was responsible.

An aristocratic organization under the Czar maintained a boarding school for girls. This has
been taken over by the Soviet Government with little change, and the 140 children in this institution
are enjoying all the opportunities which a directress trained in France and Germany, with an
exceptionally skillful corps of assistants, can give them.

I inquired regarding the changes which the Soviet Government had made in the organization of
this school. Some of the girls who were there have been kept, but vacant places have been filled
by Madame Lelina's committee, and the institution has been required to take boys into the day
school, a plan which is carried out in most of the soviet social and educational work. Much
more freedom has been introduced in the management of the institution, and the girls at table
talk and walk about, much as though they were in their own homes. The Soviet Government requires
that certain girls be permitted membership in the teachers' committee, and the two communists
accompanying me pointed to this as a great accomplishment. Privately, the teachers informed
me they regarded it as of little significance, and apparently they were entirely out of sympathy
with the innovations that the new government has made. Now all the girls are required to work
in the kitchen, dining room, or m cleaning their own dormitories, and certain girls are assigned
to the kitchen to over-see the use of supplies by the cooks. However, the whole institution,
from the uniforms of the girls to the required form in which even hand towels have to be hung,
indicates the iron will of the directress. In one class we visited the girls sat at desks and
listened to a traditional pedagogue pour out quantities of information on Pushkin's Boris Gudonov.
Occasionally the girls were called upon to react, which they did with sentences apparently
only partially memorized. The spirit of the institution is behind that of our better institutions
in America, and the spirit of the classroom is quite mediaeval.

The greatest objection which the teachers seem to have to soviet activities is the question
of sacred pictures and religious observances. The chapel of the school has been closed, but
in each room from the corner still hangs the Ikon and at the heads of many of the girls' beds
there are still small pictures of the Virgin, much to the disgust of the representatives of
the Soviet Government, who in many cases are Jewish, and in practically all cases have renounced
any religious connection. Recently the Soviet Party has announced the fact that they as a party
are not hostile to any religion, but intend to remain neutral on the subject. The attitude
of the commissars apparently is that required religious observances should not be permitted
in public institutions, and doubtless some of the inspectors have gone further than was necessary
in prohibiting any symbol of the religion which probably most of the children still nominally
adhere to.

The second institution I visited, which had been taken over from the old government, was an
orphan asylum with some 600 children mostly under 10. It was frightfully crowded, in many places
rather dirty, with frequently bad odors from unclean toilets. Not that the cost of the shoes has increased,
although that outsiders believe in economic matters. No. Is that the peseta has lost its purchasing
power.

Laymen on economic issues can say that this is the same, and, indeed, is the same. It's almost like,
but what about theory?

For my part, when I thought that the rents were very expensive, I was resigned to living in
a poor floor, but since I know that rents have not been any increase in price, my resignation is
impossible. How can I resign myself to paying a very expensive house that, theoretically, it is
very cheap? How can I resign myself to my ESP have lost their purchasing
power?

The
fact is that with a quarter, I'm always acquired ten shillings I want.
The purchasing power of the ESP, with respect to shillings, is the
same as ever, and, with respect to foreign currencies, is much greater
than could ever be there.

With a dollar today acquired many frameworks, crown and Lit abundant profusion. Potatoes,
however, very few are purchased. The peseta has lost its purchasing power, but only for things,
which is tantamount to saying that all the money he has lost the ability to purchase. And the Socialist Party
protest! ... Undoubtedly, there is no other party in our politics so bourgeois. What it is, gentlemen,
but that money loses its purchasing power? Previously, the potatoes were bought pesetas. Now,
with the potatoes is and who is dedicated to grab pesetas.

And soon, instead of pesetas, men used for transactions potatoes, sausages, sliced sausage and fifty
cigarettes.
 However, an energetic
corps of young men and young women are employed, and they are conscious of the size of their
problem and are already thinking of the difficulties of sending their students back into industrial
life. In many of the activities of the Soviet Government, as well as in these institutions
taken over from the old regime, I was dismayed at the inefficiency and ignorance of many of
the subordinates. That it shows is the strength of the deck. You see if the red is strong, that
neither can win two black. - How many red van? - Someone asks. -
Four. - It is a streak.

We must seize it ... It rains on the red chips, boards and bills.

Bidders make them large sums insured.

Naturally, this insurance is not against the loss.

It is not yet
come to form a company to ensure the gusts of a color from the color
contrast.

Far from being discouraged, they point to their accomplishments with pride.

During the last nine months Madame Lelina has taken 30,000 children into Government homes and
preparations are made to take 10,000 more during the next three months. The three new institutions
which I visited are attractive suburban homes of wealthy emigrés. The Government has taken
these over and is putting groups of 40 children in charge of specially selected and trained
men and women. The older children go out to school. Because, for me, Bolshevism is not a health issue
but a social problem, and in the current state of science, it seems absurd to suggest that anyone change
his religion or policy subjecting them to medical treatment. Perhaps the holy water has resolved
some social problems, but probably not solve the hydrogen peroxide one. And the proof that Bolshevism
is not a disease, is that while the disease only endanger patients,
Bolshevism is a risk only for those who are not bolchevikis.

But if, despite everything, we continue to Bolshevism as a disease, what will we do with other
political systems? What will cure the maurismo, for instance? Bolshevism would become something
like a huge gastric disorder, while most political sects represent
mentally impossible to combat.

V THE MAGIC OF MONEY When the Bolsheviks began to appear in a country, it seems that the rich
are quick to make happily squander their fortunes before they take them cheating. So say they
have carried the grand dukes and Russian aristocrats who are proceeding Magyars. Bolshevism
is a great stimulant of generosity, so I do not see that in Spain
are still the least danger of moving to the Bolshevik regime.

When a millionaire here we tell you rights to Bolshevism, ask Him
a thousand pesetas, and if you denies it - that deny them to you -
is that by talking and talking without any conviction.

 First, Russia has never had an adequate
number of trained workers and many of those who were trained have refused to cooperate with
the present regime, and, secondly, though the Soviet Government has adopted the policy of turning
over to the children's homes and the schools an adequate supply of food, regardless of the
suffering of the adult population, still it has been impossible to get certain items of diet,
as, for instance, milk. It is true, however, that among these children one sees few signs of
undernourishment or famine, and in general throughout the city the children seem much better
nourished than the adult population.

I had planned to visit other institutions but was unable to do so. I was told of a large palace
which has been taken over as a home for mothers. Here all women who so desire are sent after
childbirth with their children for a period of two months. 

If anyone could suggest the idea to assassinate you! ... I then do I avenge their hypocrisy! But
I am a poor murderer, incapacitated by my job to kill anyone, so you can abuse me. Goodbye, sir!
I'm going to examine a collection of newspapers to see if an item of an opponent his intention inspires
me to strangle you. "Hasta la vista. And the strange visitor was he had come. XI FERRER Ferrer,
as we know, had
a statue in Brussels

.


(Thereupon, at 12.50 o'clock p.m., the committee adjourned subject to the call of the chairman.)

