Saturday, June 11. Versailles! When I have written that one word I have said all. I ought to
stop. Description is out of the question. Describe nine miles of painting! Describe visions
of splendor and gorgeousness that cannot be examined in months! Suffice it to say that we walked
from hall to hall until there was no more soul left within us. Then, late in the afternoon
we drove away, about three miles, to the villa of M. Belloc, directeur de l'Ecole Imperials
de Dessein. Madame Belloc has produced, assisted by her friend, Mademoiselle Montgolfier, the
best French translation of Uncle Tom's Cabin. At this little family party we enjoyed ourselves
exceedingly, in the heart of genuine domestic life. Two beautiful married daughters were there,
with their husbands, and the household seemed complete. Madame B. speaks English well; and
thus, with our limited French, we got on delightfully together. I soon discovered that I had
been sinning against all law in admiring any thing at Versailles. They were all bad paintings.
There might be one or two good paintings at the Luxembourg, and one or two good modern paintings
at the Louvre--the Meduse, by Gericault, for example: (How I rejoiced that I had admired it!)
But all the rest of the modern paintings M. Belloc declared, with an inimitable shrug, are
poor paintings. There is nothing safely admirable, I find, but the old masters. All those battles
of all famous French generals, from Charles Hartel to Napoleon, and the battles in Algiers,
by Horace Yernet, are wholly to be snuffed at. In painting, as in theology, age is the criterion
of merit. Similarly, the ordinary people will notice a lazy unthinkable until the moment when their work
is up, then we know no obstacle, dreads no danger, and seems to triumph in the elements and men
equally.

I understand that the internal administration, the war and justice, often fell into the hands of the most
corrupt, and that allowed dilapidations subordinate officers, it was impossible to form any idea or just the
number of troops , or measures taken to provide them for lying and stealing are inseparable, and in a country
of recent civilization, such as intermediate class peasants have neither simplicity nor increase the boyars,
or public opinion still exists to keep in check this third class, whose existence is so recent, and
popular belief of innocence lost without acquired point of honor. A display of feeling jealous was also noted
among military commanders. It is the very nature of a despotic government
to create, even despite itself, jealousy in those who surround her: one
man will be able to change the whole wealth of each individual, fear
and hope not too many areas stirring constantly be implementing this
jealousy, which is also very much pleased by another feeling, hatred
of foreigners. I am released from care; I am unknown, unknowing; I live in a house whose
arrangements seem to me strange, old, and dreamy. In the heart of a great city I am as still
as if in a convent; in the burning heats of summer our rooms are shadowy and cool as a cave.
My time is all my own. I may at will lie on a sofa, and dreamily watch the play of the leaves
and flowers, in the little garden into which my room opens; or I may go into the parlor adjoining,
whence I hear the quick voices of my beautiful and vivacious young friends. You ought to see
these girls. Emma might look like a Madonna, were it not for her wicked wit; and as to Anna
and Lizzie, as they glance by me, now and then, I seem to think them a kind of sprite, or elf,
made to inhabit shady old houses, just as twinkling harebells grow in old castles; and then
the gracious mamma, who speaks French, or English, like a stream of silver--is she not, after
all, the fairest of any of them? And there is Caroline, piquant, racy, full of conversation--sharp
as a quartz crystal: how I like to hear her talk! These people know Paris, as we say in America,
"like a book." They have studied it aesthetically, historically, socially. They have studied
French people and French literature,--and studied it with enthusiasm, as people ever should,
who would truly understand. They are all kindness to me. Whenever I wish to see any thing,
I have only to speak; or to know, I have only to ask. At breakfast every morning we compare
notes, and make up our list of wants. My first, of course, was the Louvre. It is close by us.
Think of it. To one who has starved all a life, in vain imaginings of what art might be, to
know that you are within a stone's throw of a museum full of its miracles, Greek, Assyrian,
Egyptian, Roman sculptors and modern painting, all there!

I scarcely consider myself to have seen any thing of art in England. The calls of the living
world were so various and exigeant, I had so little leisure for reflection, that, although
I saw many paintings, I could not study them; and many times I saw them in a state of the nervous
system too jaded and depressed to receive the full force of the impression. A day or two before
I left, I visited the National Gallery, and made a rapid survey of its contents. There were
two of Turner's masterpieces there, which he presented on the significant condition that they
should hang side by side with their two finest Claudes. I thought them all four fine pictures,
but I liked the Turners best. Yet I did not think any of them fine enough to form an absolute
limit to human improvement. But, till I had been in Paris a day or two, perfectly secluded,
at full liberty to think and rest, I did not feel that my time for examining art had really come.

It was, then, with a thrill almost of awe that I approached the Louvre. Here, perhaps, said
I to myself, I shall answer, fully, the question that has long wrought within my soul, What
is art? and what can it do? Here, perhaps, these yearnings for the ideal will meet their satisfaction.
The ascent to the picture gallery tends to produce a flutter of excitement and expectation.
Magnificent staircases, dim perspectives of frescoes and carvings, the glorious hall of Apollo,
rooms with mosaic pavements, antique vases, countless spoils of art, dazzle the eye of the
neophyte, and prepare the mind for some grand enchantment. Then opens on one the grand hall
of paintings arranged by schools, the works of each artist by themselves, a wilderness of gorgeous
growths.

I first walked through the whole, offering my mind up aimlessly to see if there were any picture
there great and glorious enough to seize and control my whole being, and answer, at once, the
cravings of the poetic and artistic element. For any such I looked in vain. I saw a thousand
beauties, as also a thousand enormities, but nothing of that overwhelming, subduing nature
which I had conceived. Most of the men there had painted with dry eyes and cool hearts, thinking
only of the mixing of their colors and the jugglery of their art, thinking little of heroism,
faith, love, or immortality. Yet when I had resigned this longing; when I was sure I should
not meet there what I sought, then I began to enjoy very heartily what there was.

In the first place, I now saw Claudes worthy of the reputation he bore. Three or four of these
were studied with great delight; the delight one feels, who, conscientiously bound to be delighted,
suddenly comes into a situation to be so. I saw, now, those atmospheric traits, those reproductions
of the mysteries of air, and of light, which are called so wonderful, and for which all admire
Claude, but for which so few admire Him who made Claude, and who every day creates around us,
in the commonest scenes, effects far more beautiful. How much, even now, my admiration of Claude
was genuine, I cannot say. How can we ever be sure on this point, when we admire what has prestige
and sanction, not to admire which is an argument against ourselves? Certainly, however, I did
feel great delight in some of these works.

One of my favorites was Rembrandt. I always did admire the gorgeous and solemn mysteries of
his coloring. Rembrandt is like Hawthorne. He chooses simple and everyday objects, and so arranges
light and shadow as to give them a sombre richness and a mysterious gloom. The House of Seven
Gables is a succession of Rembrandt pictures, done in words instead of oils. Now, this pleases
us, because our life really is a haunted one; the simplest thing in it is a mystery, the invisible
world always lies round us like a shadow, and therefore this dreamy golden gleam of Rembrandt
meets somewhat in our inner consciousness to which it corresponds. There were no pictures in
the gallery which I looked upon so long, and to which I returned so often and with such growing
pleasure, as these. I found in them, if not a commanding, a drawing influence, a full satisfaction
for one part of my nature.

There were Raphaels there, which still disappointed me, because from Raphael I asked and expected
more. I wished to feel his hand on my soul with a stronger grasp; these were too passionless
in their serenity, and almost effeminate in their tenderness.

But Rubens, the great, joyous, full-souled, all-powerful Rubens!--there he was, full as ever
of triumphant, abounding life; disgusting and pleasing; making me laugh and making me angry;
defying me to dislike him; dragging me at his chariot wheels; in despite of my protests forcing
me to confess that there was no other but he.

This Medici gallery is a succession of gorgeous allegoric paintings, done at the instance of
Mary of Medici, to celebrate the praise and glory of that family. I was predetermined not to
like them for two reasons: first, that I dislike allegorical subjects; and second, that I hate
and despise that Medici family and all that belongs to them. So no sympathy with the subjects
blinded my eyes, and drew me gradually from all else in the hall to contemplate these. It was
simply the love of power and of fertility that held me astonished, which seemed to express
with nonchalant ease what other painters attain by laborious efforts. It occurred to me that
other painters are famous for single heads, or figures, and that were the striking heads and
figures with which these pictures abound to be parcelled out singly, any one of them would
make a man's reputation. Any animal of Rubens, alone, would make a man's fortune in that department.
His fruits and flowers are unrivalled for richness and abundance; his old men's Leads are wonderful;
and when he chooses, which he does not often, he can even create a pretty woman. Generally
speaking his women are his worst productions. It would seem that he had revolted with such
fury from the meagre, pale, cadaverous outlines of womankind painted by his predecessors, the
Van Eyks, whose women resembled potato sprouts grown in a cellar, that he altogether overdid
the matter in the opposite direction. His exuberant soul abhors leanness as Nature abhors a
vacuum; and hence all his women seem bursting their bodices with fulness, like overgrown carnations
breaking out of their green calyxes. He gives you Venuses with arms fit to wield the hammer
of Vulcan; vigorous Graces whose dominion would be alarming were they indisposed to clemency.
His weakness, in fact, his besetting sin, is too truly described by Moses:--

  "But Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked;
   Thou art waxen fat, thou art grown thick,
   Thou art covered with fatness."

Scornfully he is determined upon it; he will none of your scruples; his women shall be fat
as he pleases, and you shall like him nevertheless.

In this Medici gallery the fault appears less prominent than elsewhere. Many of the faces are
portraits, and there are specimens among them of female beauty, so delicate as to demonstrate
that it was not from any want of ability to represent the softer graces that he so often becomes
hard and coarse. My friend, M. Belloc, made the remark that the genius of Rubens was somewhat
restrained in these pictures, and chastened by the rigid rules of the French school, and hence
in them he is more generally pleasing.

I should compare Rubens to Shakspeare, for the wonderful variety and vital force of his artistic
power. I know no other mind he so nearly resembles. Like Shakspeare, he forces you to accept
and to forgive a thousand excesses, and uses his own faults as musicians use discords, only
to enhance the perfection of harmony. There certainly is some use even in defects. A faultless
style sends you to sleep. Defects rouse and excite the sensibility to seek and appreciate excellences.
Some of Shakspeare's finest passages explode all grammar and rhetoric like skyrockets--the
thought blows the language to shivers.

As to Murillo, there are two splendid specimens of his style here, as exquisite as any I have
seen; but I do not find reason to alter the judgment I made from my first survey.

Here is his celebrated picture of the Assumption of the Virgin, which we have seen circulated
in print shops in America, but which appears of a widely different character in the painting.
The Virgin is rising in a flood of amber light, surrounded by clouds and indistinct angel figures.
She is looking upward with clasped hands, as in an ecstasy: the crescent moon is beneath her
feet. The whole tone of the picture-- the clouds, the drapery, her flowing hair--are pervaded
with this amber tint, sublimated and spiritual. Do I, then, like it? No. Does it affect me?
Not at all. Why so? Because this is a subject requiring earnestness; yet, after all, there
is no earnestness of religious feeling expressed. It is a surface picture, exquisitely painted--the
feeling goes no deeper than the canvas. But how do I know Murillo has no earnestness in the
religious idea of this piece? How do I know, when reading Pope's Messiah, that he was not in
earnest--that he was only most exquisitely reproducing what others had thought? Does he not
assume, in the most graceful way, the language of inspiration and holy rapture? But, through
it all, we feel the satisfied smirk of the artist, and the fine, sharp touch of his diamond
file. What is done from a genuine, strong, inward emotion, whether in writing or painting,
always mesmerizes the paper, or the canvas, and gives it a power which every body must feel,
though few know why. The reason why the Bible has been omnipotent, in all ages, has been because
there were the emotions of GOD in it; and of paintings nothing is more remarkable than that
some preserve in them such a degree of genuine vital force that one can never look on them
with indifference; while others, in which every condition of art seems to be met, inspire no
strong emotion.

Yet this picture is immensely popular. Hundreds stand enchanted before it, and declare it imbodies
their highest ideal of art and religion; and I suppose it does. But so it always is. The man
who has exquisite gifts of expression passes for more, popularly, than the man with great and
grand ideas who utters but imperfectly. There are some pictures here by Correggio--a sleeping
Venus and Cupid--a marriage of the infant Jesus and St. Catharine. This Correggio is the poet
of physical beauty. Light and shadow are his god. What he lives for is, to catch and reproduce
fitting phases of these. The moral is nothing to him, and, in his own world, he does what he
seeks. He is a great popular favorite, since few look for more in a picture than exquisite
beauty understood between us that his sphere is to be earth, and not heaven; were he to attempt,
profanely, to represent heavenly things, I must rebel. I should as soon want Tom Moore to write
me a prayer book.

A large saloon is devoted to the masters of the French school. The works of no living artists
are admitted. There are some large paintings by David. He is my utter aversion. I see in him
nothing but the driest imitation of the classics. It would be too much praise to call it reproduction.
David had neither heart nor soul. How could he be and artist?--he who coolly took his portfolio
to the guillotine to take lessons on the dying agonies of its victims--how could he ever paint
any thing to touch the heart?

In general, all French artists appear to me to have been very much injured by a wrong use of
classic antiquity. Nothing could be more glorious and beautiful than the Grecian development;
nothing more unlike it that the stale, wearisome, repetitious imitations of it in modern times.
The Greek productions themselves have a living power to this day; but all imitations of them
are cold and tiresome. These old Greeks made such beautiful things, because they did not imitate.
That mysterious vitality which still imbues their remains, and which seems to enchant even
the fragments of their marbles, is the mesmeric vitality of fresh, original conception. Art,
built upon this, is just like what the shadow of a beautiful woman is to the woman. One gets
tired in these galleries of the classic band, and the classic headdress, and the classic attitude,
and the endless repetition of the classic urn, and vase, and lamp, as if nothing else were
ever to be made in the world except these things.

Again: in regard to this whole French gallery, there is much of a certain quality which I find
it very difficult to describe in any one word--a dramatic smartness, a searching for striking
and peculiar effects, which render the pictures very likely to please on first sight, and to
weary on longer acquaintance. It seems to me to be the work of a race whose senses and perceptions
of the outward have been cultivated more than the deep inward emotions. Few of the pictures
seem to have been the result of strong and profound feeling, of habits of earnest and concentrated
thought. There is an abundance of beautiful little phases of sentiment, pointedly expressed;
there is a great deal of what one should call the picturesque of the morale; but few of its
foundation ideas. I must except from these remarks the very strong and earnest painting of
the Meduse, by Gericault, which C. has described. That seems to me to be the work of a man
who had not seen human life and suffering merely on the outside, but had felt, in the very
depths of his soul, the surging and earthquake of those mysteries of passion and suffering
which underlie our whole existence in this world. To me it was a picture too mighty and too
painful--whose power I confessed, but which I did not like to contemplate.

On the whole, French painting is to me an exponent of the great difficulty and danger of French
life; that passion for the outward and visible, which all their education, all the arrangements
of their social life, every thing in their art and literature, tends continually to cultivate
and increase. Hence they have become the leaders of the world in what I should call the minor
artistics--all those little particulars which render life beautiful. Hence there are more pretty
pictures, and popular lithographs, from France than from any other country in the world; but
it produces very little of the deepest and highest style of art.

In this connection I may as well give you my Luxembourg experience, as it illustrates the same
idea. I like Paul de la Roche, on the whole, although I think he has something of the fault
of which I speak. He has very great dramatic power; but it is more of the kind shown by Walter
Scott than of the kind shown by Shakspeare. He can reproduce historical characters with great
vividness and effect, and with enough knowledge of humanity to make the verisimilitude admirably
strong; but as to the deep knowledge with which Shakspeare searches the radical elements of
the human soul, he has it not. His Death of Queen Elizabeth is a strong Walter Scott picture;
so are his Execution of Strafford, and his Charles I., which I saw in England.

As to Horace Vernet, I do not think he is like either Scott or Shakspeare. In him this French
capability for rendering the outward is wrought to the highest point; and it is outwardness
as pure from any touch of inspiration or sentiment as I ever remember to have seen. He is graphic
to the utmost extreme. His horses and his men stand from the canvas to the astonishment of
all beholders. All is vivacity, bustle, dazzle, and show. I think him as perfect, of his kind,
as possible; though it is a kind of art with which I do not sympathize.

The picture of the Decadence de Rome indicates to my mind a painter who has studied and understood
the classical forms; vitalizing them, by the reproductive force of his own mind, so as to give
them the living power of new creations. In this picture is a most grand and melancholy moral
lesson. The classical forms are evidently not introduced because they are classic, but in subservience
to the expression of the moral. In the orgies of the sensualists here represented he gives
all the grace and beauty of sensuality without its sensualizing effect. Nothing could be more
exquisite than the introduction of the busts of the departed heroes of the old republic, looking
down from their pedestals on the scene of debauchery below. It is a noble picture, which I
wish was hung up in the Capitol of our nation to teach our haughty people that as pride, and
fulness of bread, and laxness of principle brought down the old republics, so also ours may
fall. Although the outward in this painting, and the classical, is wrought to as fine a point
as in any French picture, it is so subordinate to the severity of the thought, that while it
pleases it does not distract.

But to return to the Louvre. The halls devoted to paintings, of which I have spoken, give you
very little idea of the treasures of the institution. Gallery after gallery is filled with
Greek, Roman, Assyrian, and Egyptian sculptures, coins, vases, and antique remains of every
description. There is, also, an apartment in which I took a deep interest, containing the original
sketches of ancient masters. Here one may see the pen and ink drawings of Claude, divided into
squares to prepare them for the copyist. One compares here with interest the manners of the
different artists in jotting down their ideas as they rose; some by chalk, some by crayon,
some by pencil, some by water colors, and some by a heterogeneous mixture of all. Mozart's
scrap bag of musical jottings could not have been more amusing.

On the whole, cravings of mere ideality have come nearer to meeting satisfaction by some of
these old mutilated remains of Greek sculpture than any thing which I have met yet. In the
paintings, even of the most celebrated masters, there are often things which are excessively
annoying to me. I scarcely remember a master in whose works I have not found a hand, or foot,
or face, or feature so distorted, or coloring at times so unnatural, or something so out of
place and proportion in the picture as very seriously to mar the pleasure that I derived from
it. In this statuary less is attempted, and all is more harmonious, and one's ideas of proportion
are never violated.

My favorite among all these remains is a mutilated statue which they call the Venus de Milon.
This is a statue which is so called from having been dug up some years ago, piecemeal, in the
Island of Milos. There was quite a struggle for her between a French naval officer, the English,
and the Turks. The French officer carried her off like another Helen, and she was given to
Paris, old Louis Philippe being bridegroom by proxy. Savans refer the statue to the time of
Phidias; and as this is a pleasant idea to me, I go a little further, and ascribe her to Phidias
himself.

The statue is much mutilated, both arms being gone, and part of the foot. But there is a majesty
and grace in the head and face, a union of loveliness with intellectual and moral strength,
beyond any thing which I have ever seen. To me she might represent Milton's glorious picture
of unfallen, perfect womanhood, in his Eve:--

  "Yet when I approach
   Her loveliness, so absolute she seems,
   And in herself complete, so well to know
   Her own, that what she wills to do or say
   Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best.
   All higher knowledge in her presence falls
   Degraded; wisdom, in discourse with her,
   Loses discountenanced, and like folly shows.
   Authority and reason on her wait,
   As one intended first, not after made
   Occasionally; and to consummate all,
   Greatness of mind, and nobleness, their seat
   Build in her, loveliest, and create an awe
   About her, like a guard angelic placed."

Compared with this matchless Venus, that of Medici seems as inane and trifling as mere physical
beauty always must by the side of beauty baptized, and made sacramental, as the symbol of that
which alone is truly fair.

With regard to the arrangements of the Louvre, they seem to me to be admirable. No nation has
so perfectly the qualifications to care for, keep, and to show to best advantage a gallery
of art as the French.

During the heat of the outburst that expelled Louis Philippe from the throne, the Louvre was
in some danger of destruction. Destructiveness is a native element of human nature, however
repressed by society; and hence every great revolutionary movement always brings to the surface
some who are for indiscriminate demolition. Moreover there is a strong tendency in the popular
mind, where art and beauty have for many years been monopolized as the prerogative of a haughty
aristocracy, to identify art and beauty with oppression; this showed itself in England and
Scotland in the general storm which wrecked the priceless beauty of the ecclesiastical buildings.
It was displaying itself in the same manner in Germany during the time of the reformation,
and had not Luther been gifted with a nature as strongly aesthetic as progressive, would have
wrought equal ruin there. So in the first burst of popular enthusiasm that expelled the monarchy,
the cry was raised by some among the people, "We shall never get rid of kings till we pull
down the palaces;" just the echo of the old cry in Scotland, "Pull down the nests, and the
rooks will fly away." The populace rushed in to the splendid halls and saloons of the Louvre,
and a general encampment was made among the pictures. Mankind has long struggled with nature in this permanently winter
region. There are few civilized areas, few villages and the land is not inhabited by many. The land
is void of population leaving nothing to converse about and leaving nothing to do including these areas
of northern Sweden and Russia and for 8 months of year a perpetual night and winter descends on
the land.

After the treaty of Tilsit, Emporer Alexander took control of Finland;
Alexander was able to do this because the Swedish throne was occuppied
by a deranged monarch, Gustavus IV.

This madness rendered Gustavus incapable of defending his land. Despite a high moral character, the prince
knew even from his youth that he was incapable of reigning properly. The Swedes fought for Finland with tremendous
bravery; but without a warrior for king, the less numerous country could not defeat the more powerful
enemy. Emperor Alexander took over Finland by conquering the land combined with treaties based on force;
but in his defense he ruled Finland liberally allowing the Finns many liberties they previously enjoyed.
He permitted the Finns to raise their own taxes and men; he provided the Finns with generous assistance that
had been burnt, and his favors compensated for what the Finns possessed as rights, if free men can ever
be said to accept voluntarily to that sort of demand.
 I mention them because it is often supposed,
from the destructive effects which attend the first advent of democratic principles where they
have to explode their way into existence through masses of ancient rubbish, that popular liberty
is unfavorable to art. It never could be so in France, because the whole body of the people
are more thoroughly artistic in their tastes and feelings than in most countries. They are
almost slaves to the outwardly beautiful, taken captive by the eye and the ear, and only the
long association of beauty with tyranny, with suffering, want, and degradation to themselves,
could ever have inspired any of them with even a momentary bitterness against it.

JOURNAL--(CONTINUED.)

Monday, June 13. Went this morning with H. and Mrs. C. to the studio of M. Belloc. Found a
general assembly of heads, arms, legs, and every species of nude and other humanity pertaining
to a studio; also an agreeable jumble of old pictures and new, picture frames, canvas, brushes,
boxes, unfinished sketches, easels, palettes, a sofa, some cushions, a chair or two, bottles,
papers, a stove rusty and fireless, and all things most charmingly innocent of any profane
"clarin' up times" whatsoever.

At it he went. I stood behind and enjoyed. Rapid creative sketching in chalk and charcoal.
Then a chaos of colors and clouds, put on now with brushes, now with fingers. "God began with
chaos," said he, quoting Prudhon. "We cannot expect to do better than God."

With intensest enjoyment I watched the chaotic clouds forming on the canvas round a certain
nucleus, gradually resolving themselves into shape, and lightening up with tints and touches,
until a head seemed slowly emerging from amidst the shadows.

Meanwhile, an animated conversation was proceeding. M. Belloc, in his rich, glorious French,
rolling out like music from an organ, discussed the problems of his art; while we ever and
anon excited him by our speculations, our theories, our heresies. H. talked in English, and
Mrs. C. translated, and I put in a French phrase sidewise every now and then.

By and by, M. Charpentier came in, who is more voluble, more ore rotundo, grandiose, than M.
Belloc.

"What, you too?" said he.

"Christianity," M. Belloc said, "has ennobled man, but not made him happier. The Christian
is not so happy as the old Greek. The old Greek mythology is full of images of joy, of lightness,
and vivacity; nymphs and fauns, dryads and hamadryads, and all sportive creations. The arts
that grow up out of Christianity are all tinged with sorrow."

"This is true in part," replied H., "because the more you enlarge a person's general capacity
of feeling, and his quantity of being, the more you enlarge his capacity of suffering. A man
can suffer more than an oyster. Christianity, by enlarging the scope of man's heart, and dignifying
his nature, has deepened his sorrow."

M. Belloc referred to the paintings of Eustache le Soeur, in the Louvre, in illustration of
his idea--a series based on the experience of St. Bruno, and representing the effects of maceration
and ghostly penance with revolting horrors.

"This," H. replied, "is not my idea of Christianity. Religion is not asceticism, but a principle
of love to God that beautifies and exalts common life, and fills it with joy."

M. Belloc ended with a splendid panegyric upon the ancient Greeks, the eloquence of which I
will not mar by attempting to repeat.

Ever and anon H. was amused at the pathetic air, at once genuinely French and thoroughly sincere,
with which the master assured her, that he was "desole" to put her to so much trouble.

As to Christianity not making men happier, methinks M. Belloc forgets that the old Greek tragedies
are filled with despair and gloom, as their prevailing characteristic, and that nearly all
the music of the world before Christ was in the minor scale, as since Christ it has come to
be in the major. The whole creation has, indeed, groaned and travailed in pain together until
now; but the mighty anthem has modulated since the cross, and the requiem of Jesus has been
the world's birthsong of approaching jubilee.

Music is a far better test, moreover, on such a point, than painting, for just where painting
is weakest, namely, in the expression of the highest moral and spiritual ideas, there music
is most sublimely strong.

Altogether this morning in the painter's studio was one of the most agreeable we ever spent.
But what shall I say then of the evening in a salon musicale; with the first violoncello playing
in the world, and the Princess Czartoryski at the piano? We were invited at eight, but it was
nine before we entered our carriage. We arrived at the hotel of Mrs. Erskine, a sister of Lord
Dundalk, and found a very select party. There were chairs and sofas enough for all without
crowding.

There was Frankomm of the Conservatoire, with his Stradivarius, an instrument one hundred and
fifty years old, which cost six thousand dollars. There was his son, a little lad of twelve,
who played almost as well as his father. I wish F. and M. could have seen this. He was but
a year older than F., and yet played with the most astonishing perfection. Among other things
the little fellow performed a morceau of his own composition, which was full of pathos, and
gave tokens of uncommon ability. His father gave us sonatas of Mozart, Chopin, &c., and a polonaise. Bonaparte
retreated to Lausanne to prepare to go to Mount St. Bernard. The veteran
Austrian general did not sufficiently prepare to fight Bonaparte's arrival,
as he did not think such an expedition likely.
 There was no whispering, no noise. All felt, and heard, and enjoyed. I conversed with
the princess and with Frankomm. The former speaks English, the latter none. I interpreted for
H., and she had quite a little conversation with him about his son, and about music. She told
him she hoped the day was coming when art would be consecrated to express the best and purest
emotions of humanity. He had read Uncle Tom; and when he read it he exclaimed, "This is genuine
Christianity"--"Ceci est la vraie Christianisme!"

The attentions shown to H. were very touching and agreeable. There is nothing said or done
that wearies or oppresses her. She is made to feel perfectly free, at large, at ease; and the
regard felt for her is manifested in a way so delicate, so imperceptibly fine and considerate,
that she is rather strengthened by it than exhausted. This is owing, no doubt, to the fact
that we came determined to be as private as possible, and with an explicit understanding with
Mrs. C. to that effect. Instead of trying to defeat her purpose, and force her into publicity,
the few who know of her presence seem to try to help her carry it out, and see how much they
can do for her, consistently therewith.

