GAUT GURLEY;

OR,

THE TRAPPERS OF UMBAGOG.

A TALE OF BORDER LIFE.

BY

D. P. THOMPSON,

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

Town and Country contrasted, in relation to Vice and Crime.--A Display Party to avoid Bankruptcy.--Gaut
Gurley, and other leading Characters, introduced as Actors in this scene of City Life.

CHAPTER II.

Retrospect of the life of the Country Merchant, in making Money, to become a "Solid Man of
Boston."--Humble Beginnings.--Tempted into Smuggling from Canada in Embargo times, and makes
a Fortune, by the aid of the desperate and daring Services of Gaut Gurley.--A Sketch of the
Wild Scenes of Smuggling over the British line into Vermont and New Hampshire.--Removal to
the City.

CHAPTER III.

Gambling (an allegory) invented by the Fiends, and is proclaimed the Premium Vice by Lucifer.--A
Gambling Scene between Gaut Gurley and the merchant, Mark Elwood.--The Failure of the latter.--The
Refusal of his brother, Arthur Elwood, to help him.--The Surprise and Distress of his Family.

CHAPTER IV.

The Downward Path of the Habitual Gambler.--His Family sharing in the Degradation, and becoming
the suffering Victims of his Vices.--The Sudden Resolve to be a Man again, and remove to an
unsettled Country, to begin Life anew in the Woods.

CHAPTER V.

The moral and intellectual Influences of Forest Life.--Scenery of Umbagog.--Description of
Elwood's new Home in the Woods.--The Burning of his first Slash.--His House catches Fire, and
he and his Wife engage in extinguishing it, praying for the return of their Son, Claud Elwood,
to help them in their terrible strait.

CHAPTER VI.

Claud Elwood and his Forest Musings.--Dangerous Assault, and slaying of a Moose.--Rescue of
Gaut's Daughter from the enraged animal.--Strange Developments.--Incipient Love Scene.--Trout-catching.--Return
of Claud and Phillips (the Old Hunter here first introduced), to aid in saving the Elwood Cottage
from the fire.--The Thunder-shower comes to complete the conquest of the fire.--The destruction
of the King Pine by a Thunderbolt.

CHAPTER VII.

Journey up the Magalloway, to bring home the slaughtered Moose.--Love and its entanglements;
its Sunshine now, its Storms in the distance.

CHAPTER VIII.

Jaunt of Claud and Phillips over the Rapids to the next Great Lake, for Deer-hunting and Trout-catching.--Rescue
of Fluella, the Indian Chief's Daughter, from Drowning in the Rapids.--Her remarkable Character
for Intellect and Beauty.

CHAPTER IX.

The Logging Bee.--The introduction of a New Character in Comical Codman, the Trapper.--The
Woodmen's Banquet.--The forming of the Trapping and Hunting Company, to start on an Expedition
to the Upper Lakes.

CHAPTER X.

Developments of the dark and designing character of Gaut Gurley.---Tomah, the college-learned
Indian.

CHAPTER XI.

Mrs. Elwood's Bodings, on account of the connection of her Husband and Son with Gaut and his
Daughter.--Her Interview with Fluella.--Claud's Interview with Fluella and her Father, the
Chief.--The Chief's History of his Tribe.

CHAPTER XII.

Adventures of the Trappers the first day of their Expedition up the Lakes.--Bear-hunt, Trout-catching,
etc.--Introduction of Carvil, an amateur Hunter from the Green Mountains.

CHAPTER XIII.

The Trappers' Central Camp on the Maguntic Lake.--Three Stories of most remarkable Adventures
in the Woods, told at the Camp-fire by three Hunters and Trappers.

CHAPTER XIV. 

RESOURCES.

The county is one of the oldest settled portions of the state, and has a
great variety of natural resources, among which are its timber areas,
its agricultural fields, its coal mines, its fisheries, including
clam and oyster beds, gray sandstone quarries, and a great variety
of clays.

INDUSTRIES.

The sawmills of the county are still a very important industry and
shiploads of lumber are sent out from its wharves.

All the cereals and grasses yield abundant crops; root crops are extensive;
fruit of great variety and fine flavor is very prominent. Dairying is flourishing,
the county having more dairies than any other in the state. Coal mining
is in its infancy, but has progressed far enough to demonstrate the
existence of vast areas of lignite coal, having some six veins and
having a combined thickness of 61 feet of coal.

About 50,000 sacks of oysters are annually marketed.

TRANSPORTATION.

The Northern Pacific railway connects Olympia with all the important
Sound ports and the east, and all the transcontinental roads coming
to the Sound from the south will pass through the county.

Together with its salt-water deep harbors, these give the county
splendid competition and variety of commercial facilities.

PRINCIPAL CITIES.

OLYMPIA, the chief town of the county, at once the county seat, state
capital and county metropolis, is situated on one of the deep-water
inlets of Puget sound.

Its population is about 12,000.

While it has a beautiful sandstone structure, now used for capitol purposes, the state is about to erect
a new capitol building, to cost $1,000,000. The foundation is already
built.

Olympia has one of the U. S. land offices and the U. S. surveyor-general's
office. It is lighted and furnished with power for street-car and
other purposes from the power of Tumwater falls.

The city is a beautiful one of fine homes, shaded streets and parks,
surrounded by a very prosperous agricultural community, [Page 86]
producing great quantities of fruit, dairy and poultry products.

Several other smaller towns on the railroads are local centers of
commercial activity.

WAHKIAKUM COUNTY

  

Wahkiakum is a small county, having only 275 square miles of territory,
located on the Columbia river in the southwestern corner of the state,
near the ocean.

Its population is about 4,000. The county is heavily timbered and well watered. In many parts of the county
the soil is exceptionally fertile. The climate is mild, but somewhat humid. In the northern part
are some low mountains, from which the drainage is south through
the county to the Columbia river.

RESOURCES.

The resources of the county consist in its timber, its fertile soil,
and the fish in the river and ocean.

INDUSTRIES.

Logging, saw-milling, and industries growing out of these; agriculture, dairying, and fishing
are the chief occupation of its people.

There are several logging concerns in the county and large saw-mills.

Fish canneries dot its river shores; several creameries and dairies are manufacturing butter, while
its farms produce hay, potatoes, fruits, cattle, hogs, poultry, eggs, and other products, chiefly for the
Portland market. Many of its citizens are fishermen and some make
considerable sums trapping fur animals in the winters.

TRANSPORTATION.

The Columbia river is the great highway of the county; no railroads
are within its borders or near.

Owing to the small area of the county, this condition is no great
drawback, as all the people have ready access to the river wharves.

PRINCIPAL TOWNS.

CATHLAMET, on the Columbia, is the county seat, with about 500 people,
and is the chief distributing center of the county.

ROSBURG, DEEP RIVER, BROOKFIELD, ALTOONA, and SKAMOKAWA are centers of industry. This county offers exceptional
opportunities for the frontiersman.

WALLA WALLA COUNTY

Walla Walla is the county of many waters.

It is the most western of the southeastern counties of the state,
and is bounded north and west by the Snake and Columbia rivers.

It has 1,296 square miles and a population of about 30,000. The elevation varies from 350 feet at
the Columbia river to 2,500 feet along its eastern border. It is
a succession of plains and rolling hills, covered with bunch-grass, with
some trees along the streams.

Its soil varies from quite sandy volcanic ash in the low lands near
the Columbia to a [Page 87] heavier clay loam in the eastern parts.

In common with much of eastern Washington, these lands increase in fertility with successive cultivations.
The climate is mild, healthful and vigorous.

RESOURCES.

  

Walla Walla county is essentially agricultural.

Its chief resource is its soil fertility. This is such that few farmers can be found who have not bank accounts.

PRODUCTS.

The
annual production of wheat in Walla Walla county is about 5,000,000
bushels. Barley is also a profitable crop. Oats and some corn are also
raised. Large crops of alfalfa hay are annually marketed, chiefly
from irrigated lands. Fruit of all kinds is abundant. There are 2,500
acres devoted to orchards.

Market gardening is an important and growing industry.

TRANSPORTATION.

There are 310 miles of railroads in this county, both the Northern Pacific
and Oregon Railroad & Navigation Company railroads competing for
the traffic.

In addition to the railroads, steamboats are plying the rivers around
the edge of the county, giving additional facilities for transportation.

PRINCIPAL CITIES AND TOWNS.

WALLA WALLA, the county seat, has a population of about 22,000 and is the commercial center for
the southeastern part of the state. Its streets are paved. The city owns its own system of water, at a cost of $600,000.
It is lighted with electricity and gas, has large banks and business
houses, U. S. land office, U. S. courts, U. S. cavalry post, an Odd Fellows'
home, and a Home for Widows and Orphans.

There are manufacturing industries employing 400 men, turning out $2,000,000 of productions annually.
An electric system of street cars traverses the streets and is projected into several other near-by
towns.

WAITSBURG is an important agricultural town of about 1,600 people,
in the western part of the county, having both railroad systems, and
ships great quantities of grain.

It has large flouring mills, warehouses, fine schools and churches, and
is a prosperous, thriving town.

A large number of shipping points on both systems of railroads are
growing commercial centers.

WHATCOM COUNTY

Whatcom county lies on the boundary of British Columbia, stretching
from the Straits of Georgia to the peaks of the Cascade mountains--24
miles wide and 100 miles long, The eastern half or more of the county
is included in the national forest reserve, with Mount Baker, 10,827
feet high, in the center of the county.

It is one of the important counties on tide water, and has an area of
2,226 square miles and a population of about 70,000.

[Page 88] The climate is not different from the general Puget sound climate being mild and healthful. There
are no severe storms, no sultry heat and no severe cold.

RESOURCES.

It is estimated that Whatcom county has three billion feet of standing timber. This is its greatest
source of wealth. The western half of the county, outside of the
lumbering, etc., is blessed with a wealth of soil responding to the
farmer's labor generously.

The eastern half of the county is essentially a mountainous, forest-covered
mining region, and has in store many veins of nearly all the metals.

Game of great variety of animals and fowls and fish are abundant.

INDUSTRIES.

The people of Whatcom county are engaged in lumbering and running saw-mills,
one of the largest of the state being in this county; manufacturing
of various kinds from the raw products in the county, including shingle
mills and shingle machinery factory, salmon canneries, planing mills,
barrel factories, Portland cement factory, and many others.

Of no small importance is farming, fruit-growing and dairying. Prospecting
and mining engage the attention and labor of a large number of citizens.

TRANSPORTATION.

Aside
from having a long salt-water coast, open to traffic from the ocean,
with splendid harbors, the county is traversed in all its agricultural half
by a network of railroads, by the Northern Pacific, Great Northern,
B. B. and B. C. railroads.

These furnish exceptional means of traffic to all industries excepting
the mining.

The county has also an admirable system of wagon roads, some planked,
some graveled and some graded and drained, covering about 700 miles.

PRINCIPAL
CITIES AND TOWNS.

BELLINGHAM, on a salt-water bay of the same name, is the county seat,
and commercial metropolis not only for this county but much other
territory.

It has a population of about 40,000 people. Into it all the railroads center, while the harbor is one
of the best in Washington. It is largely a manufacturing town, having plants for the production of sash,
doors, columns, tin cans, boilers, engines, flour and feed, canned fish, condensed milk,
and many others. It is a substantial, live business community of wide-awake people, and growing rapidly.
It has a gravity water system, electric lights, and gas plant.

BLAINE is a city of about 3,000 inhabitants, situated close to the Canadian line and on the Great Northern
railway. Timber and lumber manufactures are the chief sources of its prosperity. Fishing and the
canning of salmon are also important industries. The railroad [Page 89] company has recently
expended considerable sums in improving its facilities. Blaine is a
growing community.

SUMAS, on the Canadian border, is a lumbering town of 1,100 people.

LYNDEN is an agricultural center of 1,200 citizens.

FERNDALE is a lumber center of 1,000 people. Besides, there are a dozen smaller business centers
in the county, growing and prosperous.

WHITMAN COUNTY

Whitman county is one of the chief agricultural counties of the state,
lying immediately south of Spokane county and on the Idaho state
line, having the Snake river for its southern boundary.

The county is a plateau of rolling prairie lands, a large portion
of which is farmed, watered by a number of streams, which are utilized
for irrigation purposes in some of the bottom lands--although the
rainfall is sufficient to mature crops, and no irrigation is had on
the great bulk of the farms.

The area is about 2,000 square miles. The population is about 40,000. The soil
is a strong mixture of volcanic ash and clay of great fertility and
permanence.

Twenty years of wheat-growing still leaves the soil able to produce from
25 to 50 bushels per acre.

RESOURCES.

All the resources of the county originate in this splendid soil. For
growing all the cereals and fruits and vegetables it has no superior.

The county is well settled, and probably
no county can excel Whitman county in the per capita wealth of its farmers.
The products of the county are varied, and include wheat, oats, barley
and hay, all giving splendid yields--wheat from 30 to 50 bushels, oats 60
to 100 bushels, barley from 50 to 80 bushels, and hay from 4 to 6 tons
per acre. Potatoes, sugar beets and other vegetables produce fine crops.

The
hardier fruits, such as apples, pears, plums and cherries, are successfully
raised in all parts of the county, while on the bottom lands, along the
Snake river, peaches, melons, etc., are produced in abundance. Seventy-five
carloads of fruit go out annually from one orchard.

Wheat gives up five and one-half million bushels to the farmers each
year.

Oats one and three-fourths million and barley about one-half million bushels.
Whitman county has more banks than any county in eastern Washington besides
Spokane.

TRANSPORTATION.

Whitman county is as well, or better, provided with railroads than any agricultural
county in the state. The Northern Pacific, O. R. & N., Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul and the S. & I. railroads are all interlaced about its grain-fields.
These all connect with Spokane, and give access to all eastern and
western markets.

[Page 90] PRINCIPAL TOWNS.

COLFAX, the county
seat, situated near the center of the county, on the railroads and
Palouse river, is the largest town in the county, with about 3,600 population.
The town owns its own water system, has electric lights, fine court-house,
banks, mills, warehouses, etc.

PULLMAN is a town of 3,000
people, near which is located the Washington State College, a large educational
institution supported by the state, having about 1,000 students.
It is an important grain-shipping point. It has a public water system,
electric lights, and is a thriving and growing commercial center.

PALOUSE is a railroad center of 2,500 people, a large shipping point
for grain, live stock, fruits and pottery.

OAKESDALE is a town of 1,500 people, having three railroads, and is an important
shipping point.

TEKOA has a population of about 1,400, is a railroad center, and is
a large shipper of fruits and grain.

GARFIELD has a population of
1,000, and ships much grain and other produce.

ROSALIA has 1,000
population, and is an important grain center.

This county has a dozen
other shipping points where from 300 to 700 people are supported by
the business originating on the tributary farms.

YAKIMA COUNTY

Yakima
county is one of the large and important counties in the state, having
the Yakima Indian reservation included within its boundaries. Its
area is 3,222 square miles and it has a population of about 38,000.
It is watered by the Yakima river and its tributaries, and through
its valleys the railroads from the east find their easiest grade toward
the Cascade passes. It is a county of level valleys and plateaus,
having a soil made up chiefly of volcanic ash and disintegrated basaltic
rocks, of great depth, which yields fabulously in cereal and grass
crops, fruits and vegetables with the magic touch of irrigation. Artificial
watering is 30 years old in this valley, and yet only a very small
area was thus treated until the matter was taken up by the national
government. But now vast areas are being provided with water, and
the consequent growth and development of the county is wonderful.

A
series of lakes in the mountains are being utilized as reservoirs,
and from these lakes the waters are being distributed in many directions
in the large irrigating canals. When the projects now under way are
completed, more than 200,000 acres will be under ditches.

RESOURCES.

Yakima's
wealth consists in the combination of its soil and water and climate.
The county, lying east of the Cascade mountains, in [Page 91] large
part at a low elevation, receives somewhat severe heat in the summer,
which gives the opportunity successfully to ripen the less hardy fruits--peaches,
apricots, grapes, etc. The county has half a million bearing trees
and two and one-half million young trees growing in its orchards.

INDUSTRIES.

Naturally
the industries of the county consist in exploiting its natural resources,
and so we find Yakima citizens busy in raising fruits, hay, grain,
and garden vegetables, to supply the big cities of the Sound. Its
last year's contribution will probably exceed ten million dollars
in value.

Of the items which compose this large sum, fruit is probably
chief in importance. Alfalfa and grain-hay is an important item, as
is also the crop of melons and potatoes. The combined fields of alfalfa
and orchards make ideal bee pasturage, and Yakima honey is a constant
factor of barter in the Sound cities. The upland farms produce quantities
of all grains--wheat, oats, and barley--and some field corn is successfully
raised in the warmer parts. Sheep, cattle and horses are also exported.
Hops are a large crop.

PRINCIPAL CITIES AND TOWNS.

NORTH YAKIMA
is at once the county seat and chief metropolis of the entire Yakima
valley, having a population of about 12,000. It is situated on the
Northern Pacific railway and Yakima river, and is the distributing
center for both merchandise and farm products for a large surrounding
territory.

The State Fair, supported by the state, holds annual exhibits
here. It has extensive fruit canneries, flour mills, lumber mills,
other woodworking factories, large warehouses, paved streets, big
business blocks, fine churches, schools, banks, newspapers, etc.

SUNNYSIDE,
a town built up among the irrigated farms, has a population of 1,500.

But it is time we had returned from this digression to the characters and incidents immediately
connected with the action of our tale.

A short time after the frosts of formality, which usually attend the introductory scenes of
such assemblages, had melted away and given place to the noisy frivolities of the evening,
and while the bustling host, and pale, anxious-looking hostess, were together taking their
rounds among their three hundred guests, bestowing their attentions on the more neglected,
calling out the more modest, and exchanging civilities with all,--while this was passing, suddenly
there arose from without a confused noise, as of quick movements and mingling voices, which,
from its character and the direction whence it came, obviously indicated some altercation,
or other disturbance, at the outer door. This attracting the quickened attention of Mr. and
Mrs. Elwood, the former left his companion, and was threading his way through the throng, when
he was met by a servant, who in a flurried under-tone said:

"There is out here at the door, Mr. Elwood, a sort of a countryfied, odd-looking old fellow,
in rusty brown clothes, that has been insisting on coming in, without being invited here to-night,
and without telling his business or even giving his name. And he pressed so hard that we had
to drive him back off the steps; but he refused to go away, even then, and kept asking where
Mark was."

"Mark! why, that is my given name: didn't you know it?" said Elwood, rebukingly.

"No, sir, I didn't," replied the fashionable pro tempore lackey. "And if I had, my orders has
always been on sech occasions not to admit any but the invited, who won't send in their names,
or tell their business. And I generally calculate to go by Gunter, and do the thing up genteel."

"Well, well," said Elwood, impatiently cutting short the other in the defence of his professional
character, and leading the way to the door, "well, well, we had better see who he is, perhaps."

When they reached the front entrance, they caught, by means of the reflected light of the entry
and chambers, an imperfect view of the object of their proposed scrutiny, walking up and down
the bricked pathway leading to the house. But, not being able to identify the new-comer with
any one of his acquaintances, at that distance, Elwood walked down and confronted him; when,
after a momentary pause, he siezed the supposed intruder by the hand, and, in a surprised and
agitated tone, exclaimed:

"My brother Arthur! How came you here?"

"By steam and stage."

"Not what I meant: but no matter. We were not expecting you; and I fear the waiters have made
a sad mistake."

"As bad an one as I did, perhaps, in declining to be catechized at my brother's door."

"No, you were right enough; but the waiters, being only here for the extra occasion,--the bit
of flare-up you see we have here to-night,--and not knowing you, thought they must do as others
do at such times. So overlook the blunder, if you will, and walk in."

Mark Elwood, much chagrined and discomposed at the discovery of such an untoward first reception
of his brother, now ushered him into the brilliantly-lighted hall, where the two stood in such
singular contrast that no stranger would have ever taken them for brothers,--Mark being, as
we have before described him, a good-sized, and, in the main, a good-looking man; while the
other, whom we have introduced as Arthur Elwood, was of a diminutive size, with commonplace
features, and a severe, forbidding countenance, made so, perhaps, by intense application to
business, together with the unfavorable effect caused by a blemished and sightless eye.

"Well, brother," said Mark, after a hesitating and awkward pause, "shall I look you up a private
room, or will you go in among the company,--that is, if you consider yourself in trim to join
them?"

"Your rooms must all be in use, and I should make less trouble to go in and be lost in the
crowd. My trim will not kill anybody, probably," was the dry reply to the indirect hint of
the other.

In all this Mark's better judgment coincided; but he had no moral courage, and, fearing the
cut and color of his somewhat outre-looking brother's garments might excite the remarks of
his fashionable guests, he would have gladly disposed of him in some private manner till the
company had departed. Finding him, however, totally insensible to all such considerations,
he concluded to make the best of it, and accordingly at once led the way into the guest-crowded
apartments.

Here, contrary to his doubting brother's expectation, Arthur Elwood, whose character appeared
to be known to several of the wealthier guests, was soon treated with much respect, for, in
addition to what a previous knowledge of him secured, Mrs. Elwood had promptly come forward
to greet him, and be cordially greeted in return, and, unlike her husband, had not hesitated
to bestow on him publicly the most marked attentions. As soon, however, as she had thus testified
her sense of the superiority of worth over outward appearance, and thus, by her delicate tact,
given him the consideration with the company which she thought belonged to the brother of her
husband, she gracefully relinquished him to the latter; when the two, by tacit mutual consent,
sought a secluded corner, and seated themselves for a private conversation.

"As I said, I did not expect you, Arthur," commenced Mark Elwood, in the unsteady and hesitating
tone of one about to broach a matter in which he felt a deep interest. "I was not looking for
you here at all, these days; but presumed, when I wrote you, that, if you concluded to grant
the favor I asked, you would transact the business through the mail."

"Loans of money are not always favors, Mark," responded the other, thoughtfully; "and when
I make them, I like to know whether they promise any real benefit. I could, as you say, have
transacted the business through the mail, but I confess, Mark, I have lately had some misgivings
and doubts whether your commercial fabric here in Boston was not too big and broad for the
foundation; and I thought I would come, see, and judge for myself."

"But I only asked for the loan of a few thousands," said Mark, meekly. "The fact is, Arthur,
that, owing to some bad luck and disappointments in money matters, I am, just now, a little
embarrassed about meeting some of my engagements; and I trust you will not refuse to give me
a lift. What say you, Arthur?"

"I don't say, but will see and decide," replied the other. "But, Mark," he added, after a pause,
"Mark, what will this useless parade here to-night cost you?"

"O, a mere trifle,--a few hundreds, perhaps."

"And you think hundreds well spent, when you are wanting thousands to pay your debts, do you?"

"O, you know, Arthur, a man, to keep up his credit, must display a little once in a while."

"No, I did not know that, Mark. I did not know that the throwing away of hundreds would help
a man's credit in thousands, especially with those whose opinion would be of any use to him.
But go," added the speaker, rising, "go and see to your company: I can take care of myself."

The brothers, rising from an interview in which they had felt, perhaps, nearly an equal degree
of secret embarrassment,--the one believing that his last hope hung on the result, and the
other feeling conscious of entering on a most ungracious duty,--now separated, and mingled
with the gay throng, who, swaying hither and thither, and, seemingly without end or aim, moving
round and round their limited range of apartments, like the froth in the circling eddies of
a whirlpool, continued to laugh, flirt, and chatter on, till the advent of the last act of
the social farce,--the throwing open of a suit of hitherto sealed apartments, and the welcome
disclosure of the varied and costly delicacies of the loaded refreshment tables, which the
company, by their strong and simultaneous rush thitherward, the rattling of knives and forks,
spoons and glasses, the rapid popping of champagne corks, and the low, eager hum of gratified
voices that followed, evidently deemed the best, as well as the closing, act of the evening's
entertainment.

While this scene was in progress, Gaut Gurley, who had been for some time in vain watching
the opportunity, caught Mark Elwood unoccupied in one of the vacated apartments, and abruptly
approached and confronted him.

"Well, what now, Gaut?" exclaimed Elwood, with an assumed air of pettishness, after finding
there was no further chance of escaping an interview which he had evidently been trying to
avoid; "what would you have now?"

"I would just know whether you intend to keep your engagement," replied Gurley, fixing his
black, quivering eyes keenly on the other.

"What engagement?"

"To give me a chance to win back that money."

"Which you demand when you have taken from me an hundred to one!"

"And who had a better right? Through whose means did you make your fortune? Besides this, haven't
I always given you a fair chance to win back all you could?"

"I want no more of such chances,"

"But you promised; and I want to know whether you mean to keep that promise or not."

"Supposing I do, you would not have me leave home to-night, would you?"

"Yes, to-night."

"But my brother, as you have already discovered, I presume, has just arrived on a visit; and
you know I can't decently leave him."

"And what do I care for that? Say whether you will meet me at the old room, or not, as soon
as your company have cleared out?"

"You are unreasonable, cruel, Gaut."

"Then say you will not go, and see what will come of it, Mark Elwood!"

"I must go--I will go, Gaut," replied Elwood, turning pale at the last intimation. "As soon
as I get rid of the company, I will start directly for the place."

"Well, just as you can afford," said Gaut, doggedly, as he turned on his heel, and made his
way out of the house.

Mark Elwood drew a long breath as he was thus relieved of the other's presence, and was leaving
the room, when Mrs. Elwood, who had felt much disturbed at discovering among her guests one
of whose questionable character and connection with her husband she was already apprised, and
who, from an adjoining apartment, had caught a slight glimpse of the meeting just described,
and enough of the conversation to enable her to guess at its import, hurriedly came forward,
and, in a voice tremulous from suppressed emotion, said:

"You surely are not going out to-night, Mr. Elwood?"

"No--that is--only for a short time," he said, hesitating, and a little confused at the discovery
of his design, which a second thought told him she had made; "only for a short time. But don't
stop me to talk now; you see the company are retiring. I must see the gentlemen off."

"Mr. Elwood, I must be heard," persisted the troubled and anxious wife. "I cannot bear to have
you go off, and leave your only brother, whom you have not seen for years, and for such company!
O Mr. Elwood, how can you let that bad man--"

"Hush! don't get into such a stew. I shall soon be back," interrupted the other. "You can excuse
my absence. There, I hear them inquiring for me. I must go," he added, abruptly breaking away,
and leaving his grieved companion to hide her emotions as she best could from the guests who
were now seen approaching for their parting salutations.

In a few minutes the company had dispersed for their respective homes, and with them, also,
had unnoticed slipped away their infatuated host.

CHAPTER II.

  "At first, he, busy, plodding poor,
  Earned, saved, and daily swelled his store;
  But soon Ambition's summits rose,
  And Avarice dug his mine of woes."

For the better understanding of some of the allusions of the preceding chapter, and of others
that may yet appear in different parts of our tale, as well, indeed, as for a better appreciation
of the whole, we will here turn aside from the thread of the narrative just commenced, to take
a brief retrospect of the leading events and circumstances with which the previous lives of
the several personages we have introduced had been connected, and among which their characters
had been shaped and their destinies determined.

Some twenty two or three years previous to the juncture we have been describing, Arthur and
Mark Elwood, by the fruits of their unremitting industry as laborers on a farm in summers,
and as pedlars of what they could best buy and sell in winters, added to the few hundred dollars
patrimony they each inherited, were enabled, in a few years, to realize the object of their
early ambition, in the opening of a small retail store, in one of the little outskirt villages
of northern New-Hampshire.

Such, like that of hundreds of others among us who now count their wealth by half millions,
was the slender beginning of these two brothers. And, although they were from the first, as
we have seen them at the last, as different in their general characters as they were in their
persons, they yet got on very well together; for, however they might disagree respecting the
modes and means of acquisition, they were always as one in regard to the great result each
alike had in view, and that was to make money and be rich. And, by a sort of tacit understanding,
falling into the departments of business best suited to their different tastes and capacities,
the quiet, cautious, calculating, and systematic Arthur confined himself to the store, kept
the books, contrived the ways and means, and, in short, did the principal head-work of the
establishment; while Mark, being of a more stirring turn, and, from his brisk bon homme manner
and less scrupulous disposition, better calculated for drumming up customers and securing bargains
for the store, did most of the outdoor business, riding about the country, contracting for
produce, securing barter deal, and making himself, in all things, the runner and trumpeter
of the company. At night they usually met together to compare notes and report progress; and
they were never happier than when they sat down in their small store-room, hemmed in and surrounded
by casks of nails, quintals of codfish, farming tools, etc., on one side, and narrow shelves
of cheap calicos, India cottons, and flaunting ribbons, on the other, and recounted to each
other the business and bargains of the day. Thus the two, working on, like the spring and balance-wheel
of some piece of mechanism, in harmony together, soon placed themselves beyond all fears of
failure, and seemed happy and contented with their situation and prospects.

This situation of affairs, however, was not destined to be of very long continuance. Not long
after finding themselves safely on the highway to independence, they very naturally began to
think of selecting, from among the fair young customers of their store, the ones who might
make them eligible companions for life. And, as the wayward love-fates would have it, they
both secretly fixed their affections on one and the same girl,--the pretty and sensible Alice
Gregg, who, though a plain farmer's daughter, was, to the vexation and envy of her numerous
rustic suitors, to be won by nothing short of one of the village merchants. Alice was not long
in discovering her advantage, nor in deciding to avail herself of it, so far as to confine
her election to one of these, her two undeclared lovers. And, after balancing a while in her
mind the account between her judgment, which would have declared for the reserved but sterling
Arthur, and her fancy, which clamored hard for the manly-looking and more social Mark, she
finally yielded the reins to the latter, and took measures accordingly. After this, Arthur's
taste in selecting a piece of goods did not, as before, seem to be appreciated. Her handkerchief
was never dropped where he had any chance to pick it up; and she was never quite ready to go
till Mark was nearest at hand to help her into her wagon or side-saddle. By this delicate system
of female tactics, common with girls of more pretensions than Alice, she effectually repressed
the advances of the one, and as effectually encouraged those of the other; and the result,
as she had anticipated, was a declaration from Mark, an acceptance on her part, and a speedy
marriage between them. Arthur's heart bled at the event; but it bled inwardly; and he had at
least the consolation of believing that no one suspected the state of his feelings, except,
perhaps, Alice, and he was not unwilling that she should know them. He therefore put the best
face on the matter he could,--appeared wholly unconcerned,--attended the wedding, and with
forced gayety openly wished the new married couple the happiness which he secretly wished was
his own. The tender passion had been a new thing to the money-loving Arthur. By its elevating
influences, he, who had looked for enjoyment only in wealth, had been enabled to raise his
vision to a higher sphere of happiness. And thus to lose the bright glimpses, and be thrown
back to earth again, was, in reality, however he might disguise the fact from others, a serious
blow to his feelings, and one, indeed, which soon mainly led to a movement on his part that
gave a new turn to his apparent destinies, and a no less one, probably, to those of his then
almost envied brother Mark. For, finding it impossible to feel his former interest in business,
in a place whose associations had become painful to him, he secretly resolved to leave it as
soon as he believed he could do so without leading to any surmises respecting the true cause
of the change he contemplated. Accordingly, in a few months, he began to suggest his own unfitness
for making a profitable partner in country trade, and finally came out with a direct proposition
to his brother to buy him out at a sum which he knew would be a temptingly low one. And the
result was, that the proposition was accepted, "the partnership dissolved by mutual consent,"
and the released Arthur, with his portion, soon on his way to one of the eastern seaports,
to set up business, as he soon did, for himself alone.

The withdrawal of Arthur Elwood deprived this little establishment of its only really valuable
guidance, and left it to the chance fortunes of greater gains or greater losses than would
have been likely to occur under the cautious and hazard-excluding system of business which
he had adopted for its control. But, nothing for a year or two occurring to induce Mark Elwood
to depart from the system under which the business had been conducted, and Arthur's prudent
maxims of trade, to which he had been accustomed to defer, remaining fresh in his mind, he
naturally kept on in the old routine, which he was the more willing to follow, as by it he
found himself clearly on the advance. He was blessed in his family; for his wife, who had no
undue aspirations for wealth or show, had not only proved an efficient helper by her economy
and good counsels, but added still more to his gratification by bringing him a promising boy.
Being the only trader of the village, or hamlet it might more properly be called, he was conscious
of being the object of that peculiar kind of favor and respect which was then--more freely
than at the present day, perhaps--accorded to the country merchant by the masses among whom
he resided. And, finding his still comparatively moderate expectations thus every day fully
realized, he was satisfied with his condition in the present, and hopeful and happy in the
prospects it presented in the future; for the demon of unlawful gain had not then tempted him
into forbidden paths by the lure of sudden riches.

But that demon at length came in the shape of Gaut Gurley. From what part of the country this
singular and questionable personage originally came, was unknown, even in the neighboring village
(which was within the borders of Maine) where he had recently located himself with a young
wife and child. And, as he very rarely made any allusions to his own personal affairs, every
thing relating to his origin, life, and employments, previous to his appearance in this region,
was a matter of mere conjecture, and many a dark surmise, also, we should add, respecting his
true character. For the last few years, however, he was known to have followed, at the appropriate
seasons of the year, the business of trapping, or trading for furs with the Indians, around
the northern lakes. He had several times passed through the village on his returns from his
northern tours, and called on the Elwoods, whose contrasted characters he seemed soon to understand.
But he pressed no bargains upon them for his peltries; for, disliking the close questionings
and scrutinizing glances of Arthur, and finding he could make no final trade with Mark without
the assent of the former, he gave up all attempts of the kind, and did not call again during
the continuance of the partnership, nor till this time; when, finding that Mark was in trade
alone, he announced his intention of spending some time in the village, to see what arrangements
could be made, as he at first held out to Elwood, for establishing this as his place for the
regular sales or deposit of his furs.

But the fur traffic, whatever it might have been formerly, was now not the main, if any part
of the object he had in view. The times had changed, closing many of the old avenues of trade,
but opening new ones to tempt the ever restless spirit of gain. And, although the fur trade
was still profitable, there was yet another springing up, which, for those who, like him, had
no scruples about engaging in it, promised to become far more so. The restrictions which it
had been the policy of our government to throw around commerce, in the incipient stages of
our last national quarrel with Great Britain, had caused an unprecedented rise in the prices
of silks and other fine fabrics of foreign import. This had put whatever there was of the two
alleged leading traits of Yankee character, acquisitiveness and ingenuity, on the qui vive
to obtain those goods at the former prices, for the purpose of home speculation. And Canada,
being separated by a land boundary only from the States, presented to the greedy eyes of hundreds
of village mammonists, who, like Elwood, were plodding along at the slow jog of twenty per
cent profits, opportunities of so purchasing as to quadruple their gains; which were quite
too severe a test for their slender stock of patriotism to withstand. It was but a natural
consequence, therefore, that all of them whose love of gain was not overcome by their fear
of loss by detection and the forfeiture of their goods, should soon be found, in spite of all
the vigilance and activity of the host of custom-house officers by whom the government had
manned the Canadian lines, secretly engaged in that contraband traffic.

The history of smuggling as carried on between the Northern States and Canada, from the enactment
of the embargo at the close of 1807, and especially from the enactment of the more stringent
non-intercourse law of 1810, to the declaration of war in 1812, and even, to a greater or less
extent, to the proclamation of peace in 1815, is a portion of our annals that yet remains almost
wholly unwritten. Although the contraband trade in question was doubtless more or less followed
along the entire extent of our northern boundaries, from east to west, yet along no portions
of them half so extensively, probably, as those, of Vermont and New Hampshire, which, from
their close contiguity to Montreal and Quebec, the only importing cities of the Canadas, afforded
the most tempting facilities and the best chances for success. Along these borders, indeed,
it was for years one almost continuous scene of wild warfare between the custom-house officers
and their assistants, and the smugglers and their abettors, both parties carrying arms, and
the smugglers, especially, going armed to the teeth. In these skirmishes many were, at different
times, killed outright; many more were missing, even on the side of the officials, for whom
dark fates were naturally conjectured; while hundreds, on both sides, were crippled or otherwise
seriously wounded. Sometimes, when a double sleigh, or wagon, deeply laden with smuggled goods,
in charge of three or four stout and resolute fellows aboard, who, with as many more, perhaps,
of their confederates on horseback or in light teams, before and behind, were making their
way, at full speed, with their prize, from the line to some secret and safe depository in the
interior, was suddenly beset and brought to a stand by an equal or greater number of government
officials, deeply intent on a seizure, a most furious conflict would ensue, in which the combatants,
growing desperate for the seizure or defence of the prize, would ply their hard yeoman fists,
clubs, loaded whipstocks, or whatever was at hand, with terrible effect, and often prolong
the melee till the snow or ground was encrimsoned with blood, and scarcely an uninjured man
remained on the ground. Sometimes the besetting officials were made prisoners, and marched
off at the cocked pistol's mouth into the deep woods, and, after being led forward and backward
through the labyrinths of the forest till bewildered and lost, were suddenly left to find their
way out as they best could,--a feat which there was no danger of their accomplishing till long
after both the smugglers and their goods were beyond the reach of pursuers. And sometimes the
smugglers, when closely pressed and seeing no hope of rescue if taken, as their last resort,
drew their dirks and pistols; and wo to the official who then persisted in attempting a seizure.

But the system of tactics more generally practiced by the smugglers was that of craft and concealment,
carried out by some ingenious measure to prevent all suspicion of the times and places of their
movements, by travelling in the night or in stormy weather, or in the most unfrequented routes,
and, when pursued, by putting the pursuers on false scents, or by feints of running away with
loads of empty boxes to mislead pursuit, till the goods, which had been previously taken to
some place of temporary concealment, could be removed from the vicinity of the search and sent
on their destination.

Such were the general features of the illicit traffic which characterized the period of which
we are treating,--a traffic which laid the foundations of many a village fortune, whose dashing
heirs would not probably be very willing to acknowledge the true source from which the wealth
and position they may now be enjoying was derived,--and finally a traffic which, in its attending
homicides and desperate affrays, its hot pursuits and marvellous escapes, its curious concealments
and artful subterfuges, and, lastly, in the family and neighborhood feuds which it left behind,
would furnish materials for a series of tales as wild and romantic, if not always as creditable
to the actors, as any thing ever yet spread before the public.

It was this questionable business which was then occupying the thoughts of Gaut Gurley, and
in which it was his aim to involve Mark Elwood, whom he had pitched on for the purpose, as
not only a man of sufficient means, with no scruples which could not be overcome, but a man
whom he believed he could make dependent on him, when once enlisted, and to whom he could dictate
terms for his own services. And it is no wonder that a man of his dark cunning, working on
one of the obtuse moral sense, the love of money, and the thoughtlessness of consequences,
of Elwood, should, as he did, soon completely succeed in his objects. For, after having kindled
Elwood's political prejudices against the embargo law, which was held up to be such an outrage
on the commercial rights of the North that it were almost a merit to violate it, Gaut proceeded
to show how enormous were the profits to be made in this trade, and how safely the goods might
be smuggled in, through the back roads and forest routes with which he was familiar, by employing
Frenchmen, as he could, at a cheap rate, to bring them in large panniers on the backs of their
Canadian ponies, or by engaging Indians, who could be enlisted for even less wages, to bring
them in knapsacks through the woods. And so clearly did he demonstrate all this to the mind
of Elwood, that the latter, being unable any longer to resist the temptation of thus securing
the gains of a traffic, by the side of which the small profits of his store at home dwindled
into contempt, soon resolved to engage in it.

From this time Gaut was in high favor with Elwood. The two, indeed, seemed to have suddenly
become inseparable. They were always found together, and always engaged in some closely private
conversation, the purport of which no others were permitted to know, or were enabled to conjecture,
except from the new business movement which was observed soon to follow the forming of their
mysterious connection. And that movement was that Elwood put his store in charge of a clerk,
and, giving out that he was about to engage more extensively in the fur trade, which would
require him to be often absent, went off with a strong and fleet double team, in a northerly
direction, with Gaut for his only companion.

With the advent of this new era in the life of Elwood, every thing became changed about his
establishment. His bustling presence, with his bantering, off-hand, and communicative talk,
no longer enlivened the store and neighborhood; and people, who before seemed to know every
thing about his business and plans, now knew nothing. For he was now most of the time absent
in conducting his operations at the north, or in his stealthy journeyings thence to the cities,
to receive and dispose of the valuable packages which he had put on their passage. He generally
came and departed in the night, and, even during his brief stays at home, he kept himself secluded,
seeming to wish to be seen as little as possible. All this, of course, led to considerable
talk and various speculations; but he so well shrouded his movements from the public, and kept
afloat so many plausible stories to account for his change of business, that he prevented suspicions
from taking any definite shape about home, or spreading abroad to any extent that endangered
his operations, although those operations were constantly continued for years, and, from cautious
and small beginnings, at length became more bold, extensive, and successful, perhaps, than
any thing of the kind ever carried on in the interior of New England. But there was one whose
suspicions of the true character of the business in which he was engaged, notwithstanding his
denials and evasions, even to her, and whose fears and anxieties on account of the dangers
she believed he was constantly incurring, not only from seizure of his property and the personal
violence to which he was exposed in trying to defend it, but from his association of reckless
confederates, especially Gaut Gurley, of whose dark character, as little as she had seen of
him, she was already filled with an instinctive dread,--there was one whose suspicions, and
consequent anxieties, he could never succeed in quieting; and that was his discreet and faithful
wife. Cedar is lighter and more easily worked and for shingles chiefly and many other special
uses is superior. Spruce is fine grained, odorless and valuable for butter tubs, interior finish, shelving,
etc. The hemlock is valuable not only for the tannin of its bark, but as a wood for many purposes is equal
to spruce.

The yellow pine, where it is plentiful is the main wood used in house construction and for nearly
all farm purposes. The yellow pine is the chief timber in all eastern
Washington. The harder woods, maple, alder, ash, etc., are used where
available in furniture construction and for fuel, as are also all the
other woods.

COAL.

Not content with covering half the surface of the state with forests for fuel, the Creator hid
away under the forests an additional supply of heat and power sufficient to last its future
citizens an indefinite period. The white man was not slow to find and locate the coal measures in
many counties, notably in Kittitas, King, Pierce, Lewis, Whatcom and
Thurston, and to put it to the task of driving his machinery.

The
coal measures of these counties are of vast extent, and, although
little developed yet, there are 3,000,000 tons of coal mined annually
in Washington.

Other counties are known to have coal measures beneath their forests, but as yet they have not
been opened up for commerce.

The coal already mined includes both lignite and bituminous varieties and furnishes fuel for the
railroads, steamboats and power plants, giving very satisfactory results. Much of the bituminous
coal makes an excellent article of coke and provides this concentrated
carbon for the various plants about the state engaged in smelting
iron and other metals.

[Page 11] The fixed carbon of the coal ranges from 48 to 65 per cent.
and the total values in carbon from 64 to 80 per cent. and the ash
from 3 to 17 per cent. The coal measures underlie probably the great
bulk of the foothills on both sides of the Cascades and some of the
Olympics, the Blue mountains of the southeast and some of the low
mountains in the northeastern part of the state.

Besides these coals already mentioned, it is known that veins of anthracite
coal exist in the western part of Lewis county, the extent and value
of which have not been fully determined, and, owing to the absence
of transportation, are not on the market.

MINERAL ORES.

The general topography of the state suggests at once the probability
of deposits of ores of the precious metals, and the cursory prospecting
already done justifies the outlook.

Practically the entire mountain regions are enticing fields for the prospector. Substantial rewards have
already been realized by many who have chanced the hardships, and
there are now in operation many mining enterprises which are yearly
adding a substantial sum to the output of the wealth of the state.

The ores occur chiefly in veins of low grade and great width and known
as base on account of the presence of sulphur, arsenic and other
elements compelling the ores to be roasted before smelting.

  

There are, however, some high grade ores in narrow fissures and in
a few localities free milling ores and placer deposits are found.

In most cases the free milling ores are the result of oxidation and
will be found to be base as water level is reached in the mining process.

Mining
of precious metals is being prosecuted in Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish,
King, Pierce, Lewis, Skamania, Cowlitz, Okanogan, Chelan, Kittitas,
Yakima, Klickitat, Ferry and Stevens counties.
  The words that should sufficiently accurse
  And execrate the thing, hath need
  Come glowing from the lips of eldest hell.
  Among the saddest in the den of woe,
  Most sad; among the damn'd, most deeply damn'd."

Once on a time, before the dark catalogue of vices was made complete by the wicked inventions
of men, or the evil made to counterbalance the good in the world, the Arch Enemy of mankind,
deeply sensible of the vantage-ground occupied by the antagonistic Being, and anxiously casting
about him for the means of securing an equilibrium of power, called around him a small company,
consisting of those of his Infernal subjects whom he had previously noted for their excellence,
in subtility and devilish invention, and, after fully explaining his wants and wishes to his
keenly appreciating auditory, made proclamation among them, that the Demon who should invent
a new vice, which, under the name and guise of Pastime, should be best calculated to seduce
men from the paths of virtue, pervert their hearts, ruin them for earth and educate them for
hell, should be awarded a crown of honor, with rank and prerogative second only to his own.
He then, with many a gracious and encouraging word to incite in them a spirit of emulation,
and nerve them for exertion in the important enterprise thus set before them, dismissed them,
to go forth among men, observe, study, and come again before him on a designated time, to report
the results of their respective doings, and submit them to his decision. Eager to do the will
of their lord and Lucifer; as well as to gain the tempting distinctions involved in his award,
the commissioned, fiend-group dispersed, and scattered themselves over the earth, which was
understood to be their field of operations. And, after noting, as long as they chose, all the
different phases of human society, the secret inclinations of those composing it, their follies,
weaknesses, and points most vulnerable to temptation, they each returned to the dark dominions
whence they came, to cogitate in retirement, concoct and reduce to form those schemes for securing
the great object in view, which their observations and discoveries on earth had suggested.

At the time appointed for the hearing and decision, the demoniac competitors again assembled
before their imperial arbiter; not this time in secret conclave, but in the presence of thousands
of congregated fiends, who, having been apprised of the new plan about to be presented for
peopling the Commonwealth of Hell with recruits from earth, had come up in all directions from
their dismal abodes, to hear those plans reported, and witness the awarding of the prize for
the one judged most worthy of adoption. Lucifer then mounted his throne, commanded silence,
and ordered the competitors to advance and present, in succession, such plans as they would
lay before him for his consideration and decision. They did so; and one of them, a young and
genteel-looking devil, to whom, from a suppose congeniality of tastes and feelings with the
objects of his care, had been especially assigned the duty of supervising the fashionable walks
of society, now stepped confidently forward and said:

"I present for your consideration, most honored Lucifer, I present FASHION as one of those
social institutions of men which might the most easily become, with a little fostering at our
hands, to us the most productive of vices, under a name least calculated to alarm. It already
holds an almost omnipotent sway over the wealthier, or what they call the higher, classes of
society, who hesitate at no sins that can be committed with its sanction; and the disposition
is every day growing stronger and stronger, among all classes, to fall in with its behests.
Encourage its progress, make its rule absolute with all, and the world's boasted morality would
trouble us, devils, no more. This would be the direct and natural result among the most wealthy,
who would leave no vice unpracticed, no sin uncommitted, provided they could excuse themselves
under plea that it was fashionable. With those of more limited means the effect would be still
better; for devotion to Fashion would beget extravagance--extravagance, poverty--poverty, desperation--desperation,
crime; so with all classes, the result, for our purpose, would be equally favorable and much
the same. The new vice I therefore propose is the one to be made out of, and go under the name
of, FASHION."

"There may be something in this conception," said Lucifer, thoughtfully, after the speaker
had closed; "but is it safe against all contingencies? What if the world should take it into
their heads to make it fashionable to be good?"

"Not the least danger of that," rejoined the other, promptly. "That is a contingency about
as likely to happen as that your highness should turn Christian," he added, with a sardonic grin.

"You are right," responded Lucifer; "and, as your scheme comes within the rule, on the score
of originality, we will reserve it for consideration."

"My plan," said the next demon who spoke, "consists in inciting man to the general use of intoxicating
drinks, under the plea of taking a social glass; for, let the use of these become general,
and all men were devils ready made, and---"

"True, most true!" interrupted Lucifer; "but that is not new. That is a vice I invented myself,
as long ago as the time Noah was floating about in the ark, and the first man I caught with
it was the old patriarch himself. Since then it has been my most profitable agent in the earth,
bringing more recruits to my kingdom than all the other vices put together. But our present
movement was to insure something new. The plan, therefore, does not come within the rule, and
must be set aside."

"The new vice which I propose," said the third demon who came forward, "is involved in the
general cultivation of music, which I contend would render men effeminate, indolent, voluptuous,
and finally vicious and corrupt, so that whole nations might eventually be kept out of heaven
and secured for hell through its deteriorating influences."

"I am not a little dubious about trying to make a vice out of music, which would be all reliable
for our purposes," remarked Lucifer, with a negative shake of the head. "I fear it might prove
a sword which would cut both ways. It may, it is true, be doing a pretty fair business just
now in some localities; but methinks I already see, in the dim vista of the earth's future,
a cunning Wesley springing up, and exhorting his brethren 'Not to let the Devil have all the
good tunes, but appropriate them to the service of the Lord.' Now if the religious world should
have wit enough, as I greatly fear me they would, to follow the sagacious hint of such a leader,
they might make music an agency which would enlist two followers for the white banner of Heaven
where it would one for the red banner of Hell. The experiment would be one of too doubtful
expediency to warrant the trial. The proposition, therefore, cannot be entertained."

Many other methods of creating an efficient new vice were then successively proposed by the
different competitors; but they were all, for some deficiency, or want of originality, in turn,
rejected, till one more only remained to be announced; when its author, an old, dark-eyed demon,
who was much noted for his infernal cunning, and who, conscious perhaps of the superiority
of his device, had contrived to defer its announcement till the last, now came forward, and said:

"The scheme I have devised for the accomplishment of the common object of the patriotic enterprise
which your Highness has put afoot, proposes a new vice, which, passing under the guise of innocent
pastime, will not only, by itself, be fully equal to any other of the many vices now known
among men, for its certainty to lure them to its embrace, fascinate, infatuate, deprave, and
destroy them, but will insure the exercise and combine the powers of them all. It addresses
itself to the intellectual by the implied challenge it holds out to them to make a trial of
their skill; it appears to the unfortunate in business as a welcome friend, which is rarely
turned away; it presents to pride and vanity the means of gratification that are not to be
rejected; it holds out to avarice an irresistible temptation; it begets habits of drunkenness;
and thus insures all the fruits of that desolating vice; it engenders envy, hatred, and the
spirit of revenge; in short, it brings into play every evil thought and passion that ever entered
the head and heart of man, while it the most securely holds its victims, and most speedily
hunts them down to ruin and death."

"The name? the name?" eagerly shouted an hundred voices from the excited fiend-throng around.

"The name," resumed the speaker, in reply, "the name by which I propose to christen this new
and terrible device of mine, to counteract the power of virtue, and curtail the dominions of
Heaven, is GAMBLING!"

"Gambling! Gambling!" responded all hell, in thunders of applause; "and Gambling let it be,"
shouted Lucifer, as the prize was thus awarded by acclamation to the distinguished inventor
of Gambling.

From this supposable scene among the demons, we pass, by no unnatural transition, to a kindred
one among men.

In a back, secluded room, in the third story of a public house in Boston, of questionable respectability,
there might have been found, a few hours after the dispersion of the party before described,
a small band of men sitting around a table, intently engaged in games of chance, in which money
was at stake; while on a sideboard stood several bottles of different kinds of liquors, with
a liberal supply of crackers and cigars. Of this company, two, who have been already introduced
to the reader,--Mark Elwood and Gaut Gurley,--seemed to be especially pitted against each other
in the game. It was now deep into the night, and Elwood said something about going home. But
his remark being received only with jeers by the company, he sank into an abashed silence and
played on. Another hour elapsed, and he spoke of it again, but less decidedly. Another passed,
and he seemed wholly to have forgotten his purpose; for he, as well as all the rest of the
company, had, by this time, become intensely absorbed in the play, allowing themselves no respite
or intermission, except to snatch occasionally a glass of liquor from the sideboard, in the
entrancing business before them. And, as the sport proceeded, deeper and deeper grew the excitement
among the infatuated participants, till every sense and feeling seemed lost to every thing
save the result of each rapidly succeeding game; and the heat of concentrated thought and passion
gleamed fiercely from every eye, and found vent, in repeated exclamations of triumph or despair,
from every tongue, according to the varying fortunes of the parties engaged. On one side was
heard the loud and exultant shout of the winner at his success, and on the other, the low bitter
curse of the loser at his disappointment; the countenance of the one, in his joy and exultation,
assuming the self-satisfied and domineering air of the victor and master, and the countenance
of the other, in his grief and envy, darkening into the mingled look of the demon and the slave.

And thus played on this desperate band of gamesters till morning light, which, now stealing
through the shutters of their darkened room, came and joined its voiceless monitions with those
which their consciences had long since given them, in warning them to break up and return to
their families, made wretched by their absence. So completely, however, had they abandoned
themselves to the fatal witcheries of the play, that they heeded not even this significant
admonition; but, with uneasy glances towards the windows, to note the progress of the unwelcome
intrusions of day, turned with the redoubled eagerness often shown by those who know their
time is limited to their hellish engagement. 

Presently a woman thrusts into the semicircle a tray of freshly made cigarettes. One of the men
of the house pushes it forward towards the principal visitor, who makes a sign of acceptance
by lightly touching the tray; the other, crouching on his heels, lights a cigarette with an ember from
the fire, blowing it into a glow as he waddles up to present it to the visiting chief. The
latter takes it, but usually allows it to go out. By this time the chief of the house is ready
to open the conversation, and, after clearing his throat, suddenly throws out a question,
usually, "Where did you start from to-day?" The embarrassing silence thus
broken, question and answer are freely exchanged, the cigarette of
the visitor is again lighted at the fire by a member of the household,
and conversation becomes general. Not infrequently the host, becoming more
and more friendly, throws an arm across his guest's shoulders or
strokes him endearingly with the palm of his hand.

In the meantime the women are busy preparing a meal, a pig having
been killed and hastily cut up.

When it is ready, the visitors, if old friends, are invited to partake
of it in the chief's room. But if they are not familiar acquaintances,
the meal is spread for them in the gallery on platters placed in a long
row, one for each guest; each platter containing many cubes of hot
boiled pork and two packets of hot boiled rice wrapped in leaves.

The space is surrounded with a slight bamboo fence to keep away the dogs. In either case the visitors
eat alone, their hosts retiring until the meal is finished. As the chief's
wife retires, she says, "Eat slowly, my children, our food is poor
stuff.

There is no pork, no fish, nothing that is good." Before withdrawing, one of the people of the house
pours a little water from a bamboo vessel on the right hand of the
visiting chief, who then passes on the vessel to his followers. With
the hand thus cleansed each guest conveys the food to his mouth, dipping
his pieces of pork in coarse salt placed in a leaf beside his platter; and
when he has finished eating, he drinks water from a bamboo vessel.

The chief, and perhaps also one or more of his upper-class companions, leaves a little of
the pork and a little rice on the platter to show that he is not
greedy or ravenous; and his good breeding prompts him to prove his satisfaction
with the meal by belching up a quantity of wind with a loud and prolonged
noise, which is echoed by his followers to the best of their ability.

After thus publicly expressing his appreciation of his host's hospitality, he rinses out his mouth,
squirting out the water towards the nearest gap between the floor
boards, rubs his teeth with his forefinger, again rinses his mouth,
and washes his hand.

Then relighting his cigarette, which he has kept behind his ear or
thrust through the hole in its shell, he rejoins his host, who awaits
him on the dais.

On such an occasion, and in fact on any other occasion suggestive of festivity,
the evening is enlivened with oratory, song, and drink.

After supper the men gather together about the chiefs, sitting in close-set
ranks on and before the dais. At a hint from the chief a jar of BURAK
(rice-spirit) is brought into the circle. This may be the property of the
chief or of any one of the principal men, who, by voluntarily contributing
in this way towards the entertainment of the guests, maintains the
honour of the house and of its chief.

A little is poured into a cup and handed to the house-chief, who first makes a libation to the
omen-birds and to all the other friendly spiritual powers, by pouring
a little on to the ground through some crevice of the floor, or by
throwing a few drops out under the eaves, saying, as he does so, "Ho,
all you friendly spirits."

Then he drinks a little and hands back the cup to the young man who has taken charge of the
jar of spirit. The latter, remaining crouched upon his heels, ladles out another cupful of spirit
and offers it in both hands to the principal guest, who drinks it off, and expresses by a grunt
and a smack of the lips, and perhaps a shiver, his appreciation of its quality.
The cup is handed in similar formal fashion to each of the principal
guests in turn; and then more cups are brought into use, and the circulation
of the drink becomes more rapid and informal.

As soon as each man has had a drink, the house-chief rises to his feet and, addressing himself
to his guest, expatiates upon his admirable qualities, and expresses eloquently the pleasure felt
by himself and his people at this visit. Then speaking in parables and in
indirect fashion, claiming perhaps indulgence on the ground that
he is merely talking in his sleep, he touches upon local politics
at first delicately; then warming up he speaks more directly and
plainly.

He may become much excited and gesticulate freely, even leaping into
the air and twirling round on one foot with outstretched right arm
in a fashion that directs his remarks to each and all of the listening
circle; but, even though he may find occasion to admonish or reproach,
or even hint at a threat, his speech never transgresses the strictest bounds
of courtesy.

Having thus unburdened himself of whatever thoughts and emotions are evoked by the occasion, he takes
from the attendant Ganymede a bumper cup of spirit and breaks into
song. Standing before his guest and swinging the cup repeatedly almost
to his (the guest's) lips, he exhorts him in complimentary and rhyming
phrases to accept his remarks in a friendly spirit, and reminds him of the
age and strength of their family and tribal relations, referring to
their ancestral glories and the proud position in the world of their
common race.

At the end of each sentence all the men of both parties break out into a loud chorus, repeating
the last word or two in deep long-drawn-out musical cadence. Then,
with the last words of his extemporised song, the chief yields up the
cup to the expectant guest, who, having sat rigidly and with fixed
gaze throughout the address, takes it in one long draught, while the
chorus swells to a deep, musical roar.

At this moment the circle of auditors, if much excited, will spring to their feet and swell
the noise by stamping and jumping on the resounding planks.

The house-chief smilingly strokes his guest from the shoulder downwards and resumes his seat. The chorus
and commotion die away, and are followed by a moment of silence, during which the guest prepares
to make his reply in similar fashion. He rises and begins by naming
and lightly touching or pointing to his host and other of the principal
men present.

Then he makes acknowledgment of the kind and flattering reception accorded him, and his pleasure
at finding this opportunity of improving the understanding between himself and his hosts. "The views
so eloquently expressed by my friend (naming him and using some complimentary title, E.G. brother or
father) are no doubt correct. Indeed, how could it be otherwise?

But I have been told so and so, and perhaps it may be, ..." and so he goes on to state his own
views, taking care to shift the responsibility for any remaining
dissension on to the shoulders of some distant third party.

He congratulates all parties on this free discussion of matters of common interest, and with
free gesticulation exhorts them to turn a deaf ear to vague rumours and to maintain friendly relations.
Then, dropping down beside his host, he says "Take no notice of what I have said, I am drunk."
Ganymede again approaches him with a bumper cup, and then rising to his feet and calling on his men, he
addresses his host in complimentary song and chorus, using the gestures and expressions peculiar
to his own people. The song culminates as before in a general chorus,
long drawn out, while the house-chief drains the cup.

The cups then circulate freely, and the smoking of cigarettes is general;
other shorter speeches may be made, perhaps by the sons or brothers
of the chiefs.

As the evening wears away, both guests and hosts become increasingly
boisterous and affectionate; but few or none on an occasion of this
sort become intoxicated or quarrelsome.

If a man becomes a little too boisterous, he is led away to one of the sleeping platforms in the gallery,
and kept there until he falls asleep.

During an evening of this sort the women congregate in the adjacent rooms,
where they can overhear the proceedings; and if they find these exceptionally
interesting, they will congregate about the doors, but will strictly
abstain from interfering with, them in any way.

The flow of speech and song and conversation goes on uninterruptedly, except when the occasional
intrusion into the circle of some irrepressible dog necessitates its violent expulsion; until, as midnight
approaches, the men drop away from the circle by twos and threes, the circle being finally
broken up when the visiting chief expresses a desire to sleep. Each guest spreads his own mat
on the platform assigned to the party, and the men of the house retire
to their rooms.

We will not conclude this chapter without stating that among the
Kayans, Kenyahs, and most of the Klemantans, alcoholic intoxication
is by no means common. At great feasts, such as are made at the
close of the harvest or on the return of a successful war-party, much BORAK
is drunk, the women joining in, and a few of the men will usually
become quite drunk; but most of them will hardly go further than a
state of boisterous jollity.

Although in a year of good PADI harvest each family constantly renews
its supply of BORAK, yet the spirit is never drunk in private, but
only on festive occasions of the kind described above, or when a man
entertains a small party of friends in his own chamber.

The account given above of the reception and entertainment of guests
would apply with but little modification to the houses of the Kenyahs
and Klemantans.

In the Sea Dayak house the reception and entertainment of guests is less ceremonious, and is carried
out by the unorganised efforts of individuals, rather than by the household
as a whole with the chief at its head. On the arrival of a party of
visitors, the people of each room clamorously invite the guests to
sit down before their chamber.

The guests thus become scattered through the house. First they are offered betel nut and sirih
leaf smeared with lime to chew, for among the Sea Dayaks this chewing takes the place of the smoking
of cigarettes which is common to all the others; and they are then fed and entertained individually,
or by twos and threes, in various rooms. No pig is killed or rice-spirit offered, though possibly
a toasted bat or bit of salted wild pig will be served as a relish.

At great feasts the Sea Dayaks drink more freely than the other peoples, except the Muruts. Men and
women alike drink deeply, and many become intoxicated. The men take pride in drinking the largest
possible quantity; and when the stomach is filled, will vomit up large quantities, and then
at once drink more, the women pressing it upon them. The Dayaks and Muruts alone thus sink in the
matter of drink to the level of those highly cultured Europeans among whom a similar habit obtains:
while among all the other tribes strong drink is seldom or never abused,
but rather is put only to its proper use, the promotion of good fellowship
and social gaiety.

CHAPTER 8

Life on the Rivers

With the exception of the Punans and some of the Muruts who inhabit
the few regions devoid of navigable streams, all the peoples of Borneo
make great use of the rivers. The main rivers and their principal branches
are their great highways, and even the smallest tributary streams
are used for gaining access to their PADI fields.

It is only when hunting or gathering jungle produce that they leave the rivers. Occasionally PADI
is cultivated at a distance of a mile or more from the nearest navigable stream, and a rough pathway is then
made between the field and the nearest point of the river. Here and there also jungle paths are made connecting
points where neighbouring rivers or their navigable tributaries approach closely to one another.
In the flat country near the coast, where waterways are less abundant than in the interior, jungle tracks
are more used for communication between villages. Where a route crosses
a jungle swamp, large trees are felled in such a way that their stems
lie as nearly as possible end to end.

Their ends are connected if necessary by laying smaller logs from one to the other. In this way is
formed a rude slippery viaduct on which it is possible for an agile
and bare-footed man to walk in safety across swamps many miles in
extent.

But the jungle paths are only used when it is impossible to reach
the desired point by boat, or if the waterway is very circuitous. On
the lower and deeper reaches of the rivers the paddle is the universal
instrument of propulsion.

It is used without any kind of rowlock -- the one hand, grasping the
handle a little above the blade, draws the blade backwards through
the water; the other hand, grasping the T-shaped upper end, thrusts
it forward.

The lower hand thus serves as a fulcrum for the other.

A small boat may be propelled by a single rower, who, sitting at the
stern, uses the paddle on one side only, and keeps the boat straight
by turning the paddle as he finishes his stroke.

In a boat of medium size one man seated at the stern devotes himself to steering with his paddle, although here
and there among the coast-people a fixed rudder is used. In a war boat of the largest size, the two
men occupying the bow-bench and the four men on the two stern-most benches are responsible for the steering;
the former pull the bow over, or lever it in the opposite direction.

During a day's journey the crew of a boat will from time-to-time lighten
their labour with song, one man singing, the others joining in the
chorus; and if several boats are travelling in company the crews will
from time to time spurt and strive to pass one another in good-humoured
rivalry.

At
such times each crew may break out into a deep-pitched and musical
roar, the triumphal chorus of a victorious war party.

In the upper reaches of the rivers there are numerous rapids, and
here and there actual falls.

The boat is usually propelled up a rapid by poling. Each member of the crew has beside him a stout pole some
eight or nine feet long; and when the boat approaches a rapid, the crew at a shout from the captain,
usually the steersman, spring to their feet, dropping their paddles and seizing their poles. Thrusting
these against the stony bottom in perfect unison, the crew swings
the boat up through the rushing water with a very pleasant motion.

If the current proves too strong and the boat makes no progress, or if the
water is too shallow, three or four men, or, if necessary, the whole
crew, spring into the water and, seizing the boat by the gunwale, drag
it upstream till quieter water is reached. It is necessary for a man or
boy to bale out the water that constantly enters over the gunwale
while the boat makes the passage of a rapid.

All through these exciting operations the captain directs and admonishes his men unremittingly,
hurling at them expressions of a strength that would astonish a crew
on the waters of the Cam or Isis: "Matei tadjin selin"

(may you die the most awful death) is one of the favourite phrases.
These provoke no resentment, but merely stimulate the crew to greater
exertions.

Sometimes, when much water is coming down after heavy rains, the current is so swift in deep places
that neither paddling, poling, nor wading is possible. Then three or four men are landed on the
bank, or on the boughs of the trees, and haul on the boat with long
rattans, scrambling over rocks and through the jungle as best they
can.

The passage down stream in the upper reaches of a river is even more exciting
and pleasurable. The crew paddles sufficiently to keep good steerage
way on the boat, as it glides swiftly between the rocks and shallows;
as it shoots over the rapids, the steersman stands up to choose his
path, the water splashes and gurgles and leaps over the gunwale, and
the men break out into song.

The smaller waterfalls do not check its onward rush; as the boat approaches a fall, several men near
the bow stand up to see if there is sufficient water; then, as they resume their seats, all paddle
with might and main until the boat takes the leap. Occasionally a boat is upset during such an attempt,
and rarely one or two of the crew are lost through being hurled against rocks and drowned while stunned.

In
making a long journey the nights are passed if possible in friendly villages. When no such village can
be reached, the night is passed either in the boats moored to the
bank or on the river-bank.

In the former case the leaf mats, of which each man carries at least one in his basket, are used to
roof the boat; in the latter case a rude hut is quickly built, a framework of saplings lashed together,
roofed with the mats, and floored at a level of some feet above the
ground with bamboos or slender saplings. On camping in the evening
and before starting in the morning, rice is cooked and eaten; and
about mid-day the journey is interrupted for about an hour while the
party lands on the bank, or, if possible, on a bed of pebbles, to
rest and to cook and eat the midday meal.

Fishing

Fish are caught in the rivers in several ways, and form an important
part of the diet of most of the peoples.

Perhaps the cast net is most commonly used. This is a net which, when fully extended in the water,
covers a circular patch about six yards in diameter, while its central
part rises in a steep cone, to the peak of which a strong cord is
tied. The main strands run radially from this central point, increasing
in number towards the periphery.

They are crossed by concentric strands. The periphery is weighted with bits of metal or stone. This
net is used both in deep and in shallow water. In the former case
one man steers and paddles a boat, while the other stands at the prow
with the cord of the net wound about the right hand. The bulk of the
net is gathered up on his right arm, the free end is held in the
left hand.

Choosing a still pool some two fathoms in depth, he throws a stone into
the water a little ahead of the boat, in the expectation that the
fish will congregate about the spot as they do when fruit falls from the
trees on the banks. Then, as the boat approaches the spot he deftly
flings the net so that it falls spread out upon the surface; its weighted
edge then sinks rapidly to the bottom, enclosing any fish that may be
beneath the net. If only small fish are enclosed, the net is twisted as
it is drawn up, the fish becoming entangled in its meshes, and in
pockets formed about its lower border. If a large fish is enclosed,
the steersman will dive overboard and seize the lower part of the
net so as to secure the fish.

Or the boat is paddled to the foot of a small rapid; the fisherman
springs out and runs to the head of the rapid, and casts his net
in the still water immediately above it where fish frequently congregate.

Or

a party takes the same net to the mouth of a small tributary, and, while
some hold the net so as to block the mouth almost completely, others
run through the jungle to a point some hundred yards up the stream,
and then drive down the fish by wading down stream splashing and shouting.

As soon as a number of fish come down against the net its upper border is thrown down so as to enclose them.

Another net, made quite flat and some fifteen yards long by four feet
wide, is suspended by wooden floats across a small river so that
the fish may become entangled in its meshes.

Another net is used only by the women. In shape it is like a deep basin; its wide mouth is attached to a
stout circle of rattan, and a wooden bar is tied across the mouth
to serve as handle.

With this the women catch the sucker fish in the shallow rapids, one turning up stones, the
other catching in the net the fish that dart from beneath them.

Yet another mode of netting fish is to suspend a square of net attached by its corners to the ends of
two crossed and downward bending sticks. The net is suspended by cords from
its corners to the end of a long bamboo, which rests upon a post about
its middle. The fisherman lowers the net into the water by raising
the landward end of the bamboo lever, and when he sees fish swimming
above it, attracted by a bait, he suddenly depresses his end of the
bamboo, so as to bring the net quickly above the surface.

On the coast drag nets are used.

The SELAMBO is used in small streams where fish are abundant. A fence
of upright bamboos is built out from either bank, starting at opposite
points and converging down stream to two points near the middle of
the stream and about seven feet apart; where each terminates a stout
pole is driven firmly into the bed of the river.

These two poles are connected by a stout cross-piece lashed to them a little above the level of the
water. The cross-piece forms a fulcrum for a pair of long poles joined together with cross-pieces,
in such a way that their downstream ends almost meet, while up stream
they diverge widely.

They rest upon the fulcrum at a point about one-third of their length from their downstream ends.
Between the widely divergent parts up stream from the fulcrum a net is loosely stretched. The net lies submerged
until fish coming down stream are directed on to the net by the convergent
fences.

The fisherman stands on a rude platform grasping the handle-end, and, feeling the contacts of the fishes with
the net, throws his weight upon the handle, so bringing the net quickly
above the surface.

Beside him he has a large cage of bamboo standing in the water, into
which the fish are allowed to slide from the elevated net.

A rod and line and baited hook are also in common use. The Kayans make
a hook of stout brass wire, cutting a single barb.

The Kenyahs use a hook made of rattan thorns. A strip is cut from
the surface of a rattan bearing two thorns about an inch apart; this
is bent at its middle so that the cut surfaces of the two halves are
brought into opposition, and the thorns, facing outward opposite one
another, form the barbs.

The line is tied to the bend, and the bait is placed over the tip projecting beyond the thorns. When the fish
takes the hook into his mouth and swallows the bait, the barbs being
released spring outward and secure the fish.

A rough kind of spoon bait is also used with rod and line.

Fish are taken also in traps. The most generally used is the BUBU. This varies in length from
eighteen inches to eight feet or even more. The body of the trap is a conical cage of bamboo. From
the wide mouth of the cone a second smaller flatter cone passes upwards within the outer one;
the slender bamboo strips of which it is made come almost together in the centre, their inner ends being
free and pliable.

This is fixed beside the bank, its mouth turned down stream, and a few stakes are driven into
the bed of the river to guide the fish into the mouth; or it may be laid
in shallow water, two barriers of stones converging to its mouth.
The fish working up stream pass in at the mouth, and, when they have passed
the inner lips, cannot easily pass out again.

A still simpler trap consists merely of a long slender cone of bamboo
strips.

The fish entering the mouth and passing up to the confined space of the other end become wedged
fast in it.

A Sea Dayak trap found in the south-west of Borneo is a cylindrical
cage of bamboo attached to a pole driven vertically into the bed of
the river. (Fig. 21). At one side of the cage is a circular aperture.
Into this fits a section of bamboo, the end of which within the cage
is cut into longitudinal strips that are made to converge, forming
a cone, through the apex of which the fish can push his way into the
cage, but which prevents his return. On entering the room,
therefore, after saluting his wife and son in a sort of brisk, unconcerned manner, and muttering
that he "thought they would never let him get home again," he eagerly inquired for Arthur;
and, on being informed that his brother had started for his home, without leaving any note
or word for him, and especially on being told by his son--as he at length calmly and persistingly
was, in despite of his multiplied prevarications and denials, what they all knew, and what
he himself should have been the last to be ignorant of--that the question of his failure, for
more than he could ever pay, had already been settled against him, he became frantic in the
outpourings of his rage, disappointment, and chagrin; sometimes declaring that the world, grown
envious of his prosperity, had all suddenly become his enemies, and grossly belied him; sometimes
savagely charging his brother, wife, and son with conspiring together against him; and sometimes
cursing his own blindness and folly. And thus he continued to rave, and walk the room for hours,
till his wife and son, having partaken their evening meal before his unheeding eyes, and become
sick and wearied in listening to his insane ravings,--to which they had wholly ceased making
any reply,--retired to rest, leaving him to partake such food as was left on the table, to
occupy, as he chose to do, the same sofa which his hapless wife had done the night before,
to sleep down the wild commotion of his feelings, and awake a calmer and more humbled, but
not yet a better or much wiser man.

But we do not propose to describe in detail the rapid descent from opulence and station to
poverty and insignificance, which now transpired to mark this era in the singular fortunes
of Elwood and his family. Their history, for the next three months, was but the usual painful
one which awaits the failed merchant everywhere in the cities. The crushing sense of misfortune
which, for the first few days after the unexpected blow has fallen, weighs down the self-deceived
or otherwise unprepared victims; the succeeding weeks of dejection and mortified pride; then
the painful trial of parting with the showy equipage, the costly furniture, and the cherished
mementoes, which had required, perhaps, the care of half a life in gathering; then the compulsory
abdication of the great and conspicuous mansion for the small, obscure, hired cottage; then
the saddening bodings and deep concern felt in seeing the means of living daily diminishing,
with no prospect of ever being replenished; and, finally, the humiliating resort of the wife
and children to the needle or menial employments, for the actual necessaries of life,--these,
all these, are but the usual graduated vicissitudes of sorrow and trial which are allotted
to those whose folly and extravagance have suddenly thrown them on the downward track of fortune,
and which the Elwoods, in common with others, were now doomed to experience, and, on the part
of Mrs. Elwood, especially, with aggravations not necessarily incident to such reverses. She
would have borne all the deprivations and evils incident to her husband's failure without a
murmur, could she have seen in him any amendment in those habits and vicious inclinations which
had led to his downfall. But she could not. The hopes she had confidently entertained, that
his misfortunes would humble and reform him, were doomed to disappointment. He still madly
clung to his old associates of the gambling-table; and all the money he could get was lost
or squandered among them, till he became too poor and desperate even for them, and they drove
him from their society to join another and a lower set, who in turn compelled him to seek other
still lower and more degraded associations. And so descended, step by step, along the path
of degradation, the once princely merchant, till, despised and shunned by all respectable men,
he became the fit companion of the meanest thimble-riggers of the cellars, and the lounging
tipplers of the streets.

His case, however, as hopeless as it might appear, was not permitted to become an irretrievable
one. Through a seemingly accidental circumstance, a light one day broke on his beclouded and
half-maddened brain, that led to a self-redemption as happy for himself and family as it was
unexpected by all. A former friend, one morning, moved perhaps by his forlorn appearance, in
passing him with a light carriage, invited him to ride a few miles into the country; where,
being unexpectedly called off in another direction, he left Elwood to return on foot by a nearer
route across the fields to his home. After travelling some distance, he reached an elevation
which overlooked the city, and, feeling a little fatigued, he sat down on a mossy hillock to
rest and enjoy the prospect. As he cast his eye over that busy haunt of men, with its numerous
spires shooting upward, its long lines of princely dwellings, its encircling forest of masts,
its lofty warehouses, and other evidences of wealth and business, his own former important
participation in its busy scenes, and his present worse than insignificant position there,
rose in vivid contrast in his awakening mind; and the thought of his past but squandered wealth
came up only to add poignancy to the sense of his present poverty and humiliation, which thus,
and for the first time, was brought home to his agitated bosom. Suddenly leaping from his seat,
from the torturing force of the reflection, he exclaimed: "Must I bear this? Cannot I still
be a man? I will! yes, before Heaven, I will!" And, resuming his seat, his mind became intently
engaged in studying out ways and means for carrying the sudden but stern resolution into effect;
when, after another hour thus employed, he again jumped up, and, with the air of one who has
reached some unalterable conclusion, he rapidly made his way homeward.

While the besotted Elwood was undergoing, so unexpectedly, even to himself, such a moral transformation
in the solitude of the fields, an event occurred to his sorrowful wife at home, which was equally
unexpected to her; which, though of a wholly different character, produced an equally great
revulsion in her feelings as the one happening to her husband, about the same hour, was to
him, or was producing in his feelings, and which, by the singular coincidence, seemed to indicate
that the angel of mercy was at length spreading his wings at the same time over both heads
of this unfortunate family. She had been having one of her most disconsolate days, and was
sitting alone in her little room, gloomily pondering over her disheartening trials, without
being able to see one ray of light in the dark future, when she received a call from one of
her husband's chief creditors; who announced that those creditors, at a recent meeting, having
ascertained her meritorious conduct and needy situation, had voted her the sum of five hundred
dollars, which, confiding in her discretion for a judicious outlay of the money, he now, he
said, had the pleasure of presenting her. And, having placed the money in her hands, and taken
the tear of gratitude--which, preventing the utterance of the word-thanks she attempted, had
started to her cheek at the unexpected boon--as a sufficient acknowledgment, he kindly bade
her adieu, and departed.

That evening the husband and wife met as they had not for months before: each at first surprised
at seeing the unclouded brow and hopeful countenance of the other, but each soon instinctively
feeling that something had occurred to both, which was not only of present moment, but the
harbinger of happier days to come. When confidence and hope are springing up in doubtful or
despairing bosoms, the tongue is soon loosened from the frosts of reserve, however closely
they may have before imprisoned it. Elwood, with many expressions of regret at his past conduct,
and of wonder at the blindness and folly which had permitted him so long to persevere in it,
told his gratified companion all that had that day passed through his mind,--his sudden sense
of shame and degradation; his bitter self-reproaches, and succeeding determination to reform;
to atone for the past, as far as he could, by future good conduct; to begin, in fine, the world
anew, and, after placing himself beyond the reach of those temptations to which he had so fatally
yielded, devote the remainder of his days to honest industry. And she, anxious to encourage
and strengthen him, and fearing his total want of means might defeat his good resolutions,--she,
also, as she believed it would be true wisdom to do, informed him of her good fortune, and
offered him a portion of her unexpected acquisition, to enable him to engage in such business
as he should decide to follow. They then discussed, and soon mutually agreed on, the expediency
of leaving the city, where, as they had once there enjoyed wealth and station, they must both
ever be subjected to mortifying contrasts,--both constantly doomed

  "To see profusion which they must not share,"--

and he be exposed to temptations which he might not always have the firmness to withstand.

"But I resolved," said Elwood, after a pause, "not only on going to the country, but on to
a new lot of land in the very outskirts of civilization. You, however, should I succeed in
getting up comfortable quarters, would not be content to make such a place your home?"

"Anywhere, Mark; and the farther from the dangerous influences of this wicked city, the better.
Yes, to the very depths of the wilderness, and I will not complain."

"It is settled, then. I was once, in one of my early excursions, along the borders of the wild
lakes lying on the northeastern line of New Hampshire, where a living may be obtained from
the cultivation of the soil alone; but where more may be made, at particular seasons, in taking
the valuable furs that there abound. There I will go, contract for a lot of land, and prepare
a home, leaving you, and Claud, if he shall decide for a woodman's life, to come on and join
me next summer."

"That Claud will do; for he often declares himself disgusted with the trickery of trade, and
to be longing for the country life of his boyhood. But here he comes, and can speak for himself."

The son now joined in the family deliberations, and learning, with surprise and gratification,
what had occurred during the eventful day, joyfully fell in with his father's proposition;
when it was soon decided that the latter should take half the money that day given to Mrs.
Elwood, to lay out in a lot of land and house, and immediately proceed on his journey.

Whatever Mark Elwood had once firmly decided on, he was always prompt and energetic in executing.
Before nine o'clock that evening, his knapsack of clothing was made up for a journey on foot,
which, contrary to the wishes of his wife and son, he decided should be his mode of travelling.
He then went to bed, slept six hours, rose, dressed, bade his family good-by, turned his back
on the now loathed city, and, by sunrise next morning, was far on his way towards his designated
home among the distant wilds of the North.

Once more in the green wilderness! Welcome the wild scenes of our boyhood, which, as the checkered
panorama of the past is unrolled at our bidding, rise on the mental vision in all their original
freshness and beauty! It was here we first essayed to study the works of nature, and in them
trace the Master-hand that moulded and perfected them. It was here we learned to recognize
the voice of God in the rolling thunder, and his messengers in the swift-winged lightnings;
to mark the forms of beauty and grandeur in every thing, from the humble lichen of the logs
and rocks, to the high and towering pine of the plain and the mountain,--from the low murmurings
of the quiet rivulet, to the loud thunderings of the headlong cataract,--and from the soft
whisperings of the gentle breeze, to the angry roar of the desolating tornado; and, finally,
it was here that our first and most enduring lessons of devotion were learned, here that our
first and truest conceptions of the grand and beautiful were acquired, and here that the leading
tone of our intellectual character, such as it may be, was generated and stamped on us for life.

The second part of our story, to which the preceding chapters should be taken, perhaps, as
merely introductory, opens about midsummer, and among that remarkable group of sylvan lakes--nearly
a dozen in number--which, commencing on the wild borders of northerly New Hampshire, and shooting
off in an irregular line some fifty miles northeasterly into the dark and unbroken forests
of Maine, appear on the map, in their strangely shapeless forms and scattered locations, as
if they must have been hurled, by the hand of some Borean giant, down from the North Pole in
a volley of huge ice-blocks, which fell and melted where they now lie, sparkling, like rough
gems, on the shaggy bosom of the wilderness.

Near the centre of an opening of perhaps a dozen acres, about a mile from where the sinuous
Androscoggin debouches full grown, like Minerva from the head of Jupiter, from its parent reservoir,
the picturesque Umbagog, stood a newly rigged log house, of dimensions and finish which indicated
more taste and enterprise than is usually exhibited in the rude habitations of the first settlers.
It was a story and a half high, and the walls were built of solid pine timber, originally roughly
hewed, but recently dressed down with broad axe over the whole outward and inner surfaces so
smoothly that, at a little distance, they presented, with their still visible seams, more the
appearance of the wainscoting of some costly cottage than the humble log cabin. The building
had also been newly shingled, new doors supplied, the windows enlarged, the yard around leveled
off, with other improvements, of a late date, betokening considerable ambition for appearance,
and considerable outlay of means, for so new a place, to fit up a tidy and comfortable abode
for the occupants. In the surrounding field were patches of growing maize, wheat, potatoes,
and some of the common table vegetables; the hay crop for the winter sustenance of the only
cow and yoke of oxen, the best friends of the new settler, having been just cut and stored
in an adjoining log-building, as was evident from the fresh look of the stubble, and the stray
straws hanging to the slivered stumps or bushes in the field, and from the fragrant and far-scenting
locks protruding from the upper and lower windows of the well-crammed receptacle passing under
the name of barn. Beyond this little opening, and bounding it on every side, stood the encircling
wall of woods, through and over which gleamed the bright waters of the far-spreading Umbagog
on the north; while all around, towering up in their green glories, rose, one above another,
the amphitheatric hills, till their lessening individual forms were lost, or mingled in the
vision with the lofty summits of the distant White Mountains in the south and west, and of
the bold detached eminences which shot up from the dark wilderness and studded the horizon
in all other directions.

Such, and in such a locality, was, as the reader probably has already inferred, the residence
which Mark Elwood had pitched upon for beginning life anew. On leaving the city, as represented
in the last chapter, he had, under the goading remembrance of follies left behind, and the
incitements of hope-constructed prospects before, perseveringly pushed on, till he reached
this lone and wild terminus of civilized life; when, finding, a mile beyond the last of the
scattered settlements of the vicinity, a place on which an opening had been made and the walls
and roof of a spacious log house erected, the year before, he had succeeded in purchasing it,
for ready money, at a price which was much below its value, and which left him nearly half
his little fund to be expended in more thoroughly clearing the land, getting in crops, making
the house habitable, and felling an additional tract of forest. And with so much energy and
resolution had he pursued his object of seeing himself and family once more united at a comfortable
home, that, within three months from the time he commenced operations, which was in the first
of the spring months, he had accomplished it all; for his wife and son, rejoicing in the knowledge
of his success which he had communicated to them, and promptly responding to his invitation
to join him, had come on, with their little all of goods and money, in teams hired for the
purpose; and they were now all together fully installed in their new home, pleased with the
novelty and freshness of every thing around them, proud and secure in their conscious independence
and exemption from the dangers and trials they had recently passed through, and contented and
happy in their situation.

The particular time we have taken for the reappearance of the family on this, their new stage
of action, was a warm but breezy afternoon, on one of the last days of July. Elwood was engaged
in his new-mown field, in cutting and grubbing up the bushes and sprouts which had sprung up
during the season around the log-heaps and stumps, and could not easily or conveniently be
cut by the common scythe while mowing the grass. He was no longer robed in the broadcloth and
fine linen, in which, as the rich merchant, he might have been seen, perhaps, one year ago
that day, sauntering about "on 'change" among the solid men of Boston. These had been mostly
worn out or sold during the changing fortunes of the year, and their place was now wisely supplied
by the long tow-frock and the other coarse garments in common use among the settlers. Nor had
his physical appearance undergone a much less change. Instead of the pallid brow, leaden eye,
fleshly look, and the red cheek of the wine-bibber and luxurist of the cities, he exhibited
the embrowned, thin, but firm and healthy face, and the clear and cheerful complexion of the
contented laborer of the country,--tell-tale looks both, which we always encounter with as
much secret disgust in the former as we do with involuntary respect in the latter. He now paused
in his labors, and stood for some time looking about the horizon, as if watching the signs
of the weather; now noting the progress of the haze gathering in the south, and now turning
his cheek first one way and then another, apparently to ascertain the doubtful direction of
the wind, which, from a lively western breeze, had within the last hour lulled down into those
small, fluctuating puffs usually observable when counter-currents are springing up, balancing,
and beginning to strive for the mastery. After a while he moved slowly towards the house, continuing
his observations as he went, till he came near the open window at which Mrs. Elwood was sitting
at her needle-work, from which she occasionally lifted her eyes, and glanced somewhat anxiously
along the path leading down through the woods to a landing-place on the lake; when, looking
round and observing her husband standing near, giving token of being about to speak, she interposed
and said:

"You have seen nothing of Claud, I suppose? What can be the reason why he does not return?
He was to have been at home long before this, was he not?"

"Yes," carelessly replied Elwood, "unless he concluded to take a bout in the woods. He took
his fowling-piece with him, to use in case the trout wouldn't bite, you know. Phillips, the
old hunter, came into the field where we were last night, and said he was out of meat, and
must skirt the lake to-day for a buck. I presume Claud may have joined him. There! hark! that
sounded like Claud's piece," he added, as the distant report of a gun rose from the woods westward
of the lake and died away in swelling echoes on the opposite shore. "And there, again!" he
continued, as another and sharper report burst, the next moment, from the same locality,--"there
goes another, but not his, as he could not have loaded so quick. That must have been Phillips'
long rifle. They are doubtless together somewhere near the Magalloway,--some three miles distant,
I should judge,--and are probably having fine sport with something."

"That may be the case, perhaps," responded Mrs. Elwood. "I wish, however, he would come; for
I cannot yet quite divest myself of the idea that there may be danger in these wild scenes
of the lakes and the woods. But what was you about to say when I first spoke? You were going
to say something, I thought."

"O--yes--why, I was about to say that I had made up my mind to set fire to the slash. It is
dry enough now to get a good burn; and it looks to me a good deal like rain. I wish to get
the land cleared and ready to sow with winter wheat by the first of September; and I don't
like to risk the chance of finding every thing in so good order again."

"There is no danger that the fire will spread, or be blown to the buildings, is there?"

"No, the wind is springing up in the south now, and will drive the fire only towards the lake
in the direction of the landing."

"But Claud may be there."

"Well, if he should be, the fire won't burn up the lake, I think; and, if it besets the path
in the woods, he can come round some other way," jocosely said Elwood, moving away to carry
his purpose into execution.

Having procured a parcel of splinters split from the dry and resinous roots of some old pine
stub,--that never-failing and by no means contemptible substitute for lamp or candle among
the pioneers of a pine-growing country,--he proceeded rapidly to the edge of the slash, as
a tract of felled forest is generally denominated by the first settlers, especially of the
northern States. Here, pausing a moment to mark with his eye the most favorable places to communicate
the fire, he picked his way along the southern end to the farthest side of the tangled mass
of trees of every description composing the slash, which was a piece of some four or five acres,
lying on the western border and extending north and south the whole length of the opening.
And, having reached his destination, and kindled all his splinters into a blaze, he threw one
of them into the thickest nest of pine or other evergreen boughs at hand, and darted back to
his next marked station, where he threw in another of his blazing torches, and so on till he
reached the cleared ground, which was not one moment too soon for his safety. For so dry and
inflammable had every thing there become, under the scorching sun of the preceding fortnight,
which had been relieved by neither rain nor cloud, that, the instant the fire touched the tinder-like
leaves, it flashed up as from a parcel of scattered gunpowder; and, bursting with almost explosive
quickness all around, and swiftly leaping from bough to bough and treetop to treetop, it spread
with such astonishing celerity that he found it hard on his heels, or whirling in a hot cloud
over his head, at every pause he made to throw in a new but now unnecessary torch, in his rapid
and constantly quickened run through the slash. And when, after running some distance into
the open field, to escape the stifling smoke and heat by which he was even there assailed,
he turned round to note more fully the surprising progress that the terrible element he had
thus let loose was making, he beheld all that part of the slash which he had a moment before
passed through already enveloped, from side to side, in a continuous blaze, whose red, curling
crest, mounting every instant higher and higher, was advancing with the seeming speed of a
race-horse on its fiery destination. Half-appalled by the sight of such a sudden and unexpected
outburst of the fire he had kindled, Elwood hurried on to his house, and joined his startled
wife in the yard; when the two took station on an adjoining knoll, and looked down upon the
conflagration in progress with increasing wonder and uneasiness,--so comparatively new was
the scene to them both, and so far did it promise to exceed all their previous conceptions,
in magnitude and grandeur, of any thing of the kind to be met with in the new settlements.
And it was, indeed, a grand and fearful spectacle: For, with constantly increasing fury, and
with the rapidity of the wind before which it was driving, still raged and rolled on the red
tempest of fire. Now surging aloft, and streaking with its winding jets of flame the fiercely
whirling clouds of smoke that marked its advance, and now dying away in hoarse murmurs, as
if to gather strength for the new and more furious outburst that the next moment followed,
it kept on its terrific march till it reached the central elevation, which embraced the most
tangled, densely covered, and combustible part of the slash, and on which had been left standing
an enormous dry pine, that towered so up high above the surrounding forest as to have long
served as a landmark for the hunters and fishermen, in setting their courses through the woods
or over the lake. Here the fiery billow, as if governed by the human tactics of a military
assault, paused, parted, and swept by on either side, till it had inclosed the elevation; when
suddenly it shot up from every side in an hundred converging tongues of flame, which, soon
meeting and expanding into one, quickly enveloped the whole hill in one broad, unbroken robe
of sheeted fire, encompassed and mounted the veteran pine, and around its colossal trunk formed
a huge, whirling pyramid of mingling smoke and flame that rose to the mid-heavens, shedding,
in place of the darkened sun, a lurid glare over the forest, and sending forth the stormy roar
of a belching volcano. The next moment a shower of cinders and the burning fragments of twigs,
bark, and boughs which had been carried high up by the force of the ascending currents, fell
hot and hissing to the earth over every part of the adjoining fields, to and even far beyond
the spot where Elwood and his wife were standing.

"Good Heavens!" exclaimed Elwood, aroused from the mute amazement with which he and his more
terrified companion had been beholding the scene, as soon as these indications of danger were
thus brought to his very feet. "Good Heavens! this is more than I bargained for. See,--the
fire is catching on the stumps all over the field!"

"The house!" half-screamed Mrs. Elwood. "What is that rising from the shingles up there near
the top of the roof?"

"Smoke, as I am alive!" cried the other, in serious alarm, as he glanced up to the roof, where
several slender threads of smoke were beginning to steal along the shingles. "Run, Alice, run
with the pails for the brook, while I throw up the ladder against the gable. We must be lively,
or within one hour we shall be as houseless as beggars."

"O, where is Claud? where is Claud?" exclaimed the distressed wife and mother, as she flew
to the house to do her husband's bidding.

Yes, where was Claud? At the risk of the charge of purposely tantalizing the reader, we must
break off here, to follow the young man just named, in the unexpected adventures which he also
had experienced during that eventful day. But for this we will take a new chapter.

It was about the middle of the forenoon, on the day marked by the incidents narrated in the
preceding chapter, when Claud Elwood, who had become pretty well initiated into the sports
of the locality, entered his light canoe, with his fishing-tackle and fowling-piece, and pushed
out upon the broad bosom of the forest-girt Umbagog. Having had the best success, when up on
the lake the last time, on the western margin, he pulled away in that direction, and, after
rowing a couple of miles up the lake, he laid down his oar, unrolled his elm-bark cable, and
let down his stone anchor, at a station a furlong or so from the shore.

It was a beautiful spot, and a beautiful day to enjoy it in. From the water's edge rose, deeply
enshrouded in their bright green, flowing, and furbelowed robes of thickly interwoven pines,
the undulating hills, back to the summit level of that long, narrow tongue of forest land,
which, for many miles, only separates the Umbagog from the parallel Magalloway, the noble stream
that here comes rushing down from the British highlands, to join the scarcely larger Androscoggin,
almost at the very outset of its "varied journey to the deep." Turning from this magnificent
swell on the west, the eye, as it wandered to the right over the bright expanse of intervening
waters, next rested on the long, crescent-shaped mountain ridge, behind which slept, in their
still deeper and wilder seclusion, the broad Mooseeluk-maguntic and the Molechunk-a-munk, which,
with the Umbagog, make up the three principal links in this remarkable chain of lakes. Still
farther to the right lay the seemingly boundless, rolling forests, forming the eastern and
southern rim of this basin of the lakes; whose gradually sloping sides, like some old pinnacled
city, were everywhere bristling with the giant forms of the heaven-aspiring pine, and whose
nearer recesses were pierced, in the midst, by the long, lessening line of the gleaming Umbagog;
while around the whole circle of the horizon, scattered here and there far back into the blue
distance, rose mountain after mountain in misty grandeur to the heavens.

After thus slowly sweeping the horizon, to note, for the tenth time, perhaps, the impressive
character of the scenery, whose everywhere intermingling beauty and grandeur he was never tired
of contemplating, Claud withdrew his gaze, and turned his attention to, the more immediate
object of his excursion. After a few moments spent in regulating his hook and line, he strung
his angle-rod, and threw out to see whether he could succeed in tempting, at that unfavorable
hour, the fickle trout from their watery recesses. But all in vain the attempt. Not a trout
was seen stirring the water at the surface, or manifesting his presence around the hook beneath;
and all the endeavors which the tantalized angler made, by changing the bait, and throwing
the line in different directions around him, proved, for the next hour, equally fruitless.
While he was thus engaged, intently watching his line, each moment expecting that the next
must bring him a bite, one of those peculiar, subdued, but far-reaching sounds, which are made
by the grazing of the oar against the side of the boat in rowing, occasionally greeted his
ear from some point to the south of him; though, for a while, nothing was to be seen to indicate
by whom the sounds were produced. Soon, however, a man in a canoe, who had been coasting, unseen,
along the indentures of the shore, and whom Claud instantly recognized as Phillips, the hunter
already named, shot round a neighboring point, and, in a few minutes more, was at his side.

"Well, what luck?" cheerily exclaimed Phillips, a keen, hawk-eyed, self-possessed looking man,
with a round, compact, and sinewy frame. "What luck to-day, young man?"

"None whatever," replied Claud, with an air of disappointment.

"I suppose so, unless you began before ten o'clock."

"But why did you suppose so?"

"O, I knew it from my knowledge of human nature," said the hunter, humorously. "Trout are very
much like other folks, only a great deal more sensitive to heat. Now, you don't see men, who
are well fixed under a cool shade in a sweltering hot day, very anxious to run out bare-headed
in the sun, when there is no call for it; much less, then, the trout, that can't bear the sun
and heat at all. Though there are, probably, a ton of them within a stone's throw of us, not
one will come out with this bright sun; they are lying behind the rocks and old logs at the
bottom, and won't begin to circulate these three hours."

"And are you not a-going to try them?"

"I? No; I would as soon think of fishing now on the top of these hills. Besides this, I have
a different object. I am bound to carry home something that will pass for fresh meat, if it
is nothing but a coon. I shall haul up my canoe somewhere about here; follow up the lake-shore
a mile or so, with the idea of catching a deer in the edge of the water, come there to keep
off the flies; then, perhaps, cross over to the Magalloway, down that, and over to this place;
when, by way of topping off, I will show you, by that time, if you are about here so long,
how trout are taken."

So saying, the hunter dipped his springy oar into the water, and, with a few vigorous strokes,
sent his canoe to the shore, and, having moored it to a root, he glided into the thickets,
and disappeared with a tread so noiseless as to leave Claud, for many minutes, wholly in doubt
whether the man was standing still in the bushes or proceeding on his excursion.

It was now noon, and Claud, seeing no prospect of any immediate success in his piscatory employment,
which had been made to appear to him, by the remarks of the hunter, more discouraging than
ever, drew up his anchor, and rowed to a point of the shore which was embowered by a group
of magnificent pines. Here, finding a cool spring, as well as a refreshing shade, he drew out
his lunch, and very leisurely proceeded to discuss it, with the ice-cold water of the spring
by which he had seated himself for the purpose. His fare was coarse; but it was partaken with
a relish of which those who have never experienced the effects of the air and exercise, incident
to a life in the woods, can have no just conception; and to which the palled appetite of the

                    "vain lords of luxury and ease,
  Whom slumber soothes not, pleasure cannot please,"

is poor in comparison, though all the king's banquets and metropolitan feasts in the world
should vie together to make good the substitute. Claud's life had thus far been, in the main,
a quiet and commonplace one; nothing having occurred to him to arouse those strong and over-mastering
passions to which it is the lot of most of us, at some period of our lives, to become subjected.
It had been checkered, however, by one bit of romance, which, to say the least, had greatly
excited his imagination. About a year previous to the time of which we are now writing, and
one day while he was walking the streets of Boston, a small, closely-enwrapped package was
put in his hand by an unknown boy, who, with the simple announcement, "For you, Sir," turned
quickly away, and made off with the air of one who has completed his mission, and would avoid
being questioned. Glancing within the wrapper, and perceiving it inclosed a small encased picture,
or likeness, of some female, which he thought must have been delivered to him through mistake,
Claud looked hastily round for the messenger, and, not seeing him, he walked backward and forward
along the street, and lingered some time in the vicinity, still expecting the boy would soon
return to claim the package. Followed the creek west till 1.5 p.m., when we crossed to the left bank
and encamped.

Latitude by Regulus and Argus 16 degrees 59 minutes.

9th April.

Continued our route down the creek in a northerly direction, leaving
the camp at 6.15 a.m., and at 7.55 reached its junction with the
Victoria.

The river had high banks and formed deep reaches of water, with a dense growth of pandanus, melaleuca,
flooded-gum, and other trees in the dry portions of the channel; the country on both banks
was basaltic, and rose gradually into fine grassy downs; the soil very stony, but a good dark loam;
sandstone showed where the river had cut through the basalt, which
is not of any great thickness.

At 2.35 p.m. camped on a back channel of the river, as the principal
channel was difficult of access from the steep bank and dense growth
of reeds.

Although the upper part of the Victoria had long ceased to run, this
part of the river was flowing with a strong stream ten yards wide
and six feet deep.

Latitude by Regulus and Argus 16 degrees 45 minutes 30 seconds.

10th April.

Continued our route at 6.5 a.m., and followed the river northward till
8.10, when it turned to the north-west; the country consisted of nearly
level grassy plains of various elevations, separated by low rocky ridges
of sandstone and basalt, the whole well grassed, except some small
patches where triodia prevailed; at 11.0 altered the course to average
north-west by west, and at 1.30 p.m. camped at a small gully with
a little water remaining from a recent shower.

The horses suffered much from the heat,
as the air was very moist; at 1.40 there was a shower of rain, and
the temperature was reduced from 95 degrees to 84 degrees.

Latitude
by Vega 16 degrees 35 minutes 8 seconds.

After indulging in his reveries a while, he put up his miniature, aroused himself from his
day-dream, and rose to his feet when, feeling inclined for some kind of action, he decided
on a short excursion in the woods, in the direction of the Magalloway, where probably he would
fall in with Phillips, and return with him to the lake. Accordingly, after loading his gun
with ball and buckshot, so as to be prepared for any large wild animals he might chance to
encounter, he leisurely took his way through the heavy, ascending forest that lay in his course;
here pausing to note the last night's bed of some solitary bear, and there to trace the marks
of the death-struggle of a victim deer, that, with all its vigilance and wondrous agility,
had been surprised and brought down by the stealthy and far-leaping catamount. The ever-varying
tenants of the forest, also, were constantly presenting as he passed on, some novelty to attract
his unaccustomed eye; now in the smooth, tall shaft of the fusiform fir--the dandy of the forest--standing
up with its beautiful cone-shaped top among its rougher neighbors, trim and straight as the
bonneted cavalier of the old pictures, among the slouchy forms of his homelier but worthier
opponents; now in the low and stocky birch standing on its broad, staunch pedestal of strongly-braced
roots below, and throwing out widely above its giant arms, as if striving to shoulder and stay
up the weight of the superincumbent forest; and now in the imperial pine, proudly lifting its
tall form an hundred feet over the tops of the plebeian trees around, to revel in the upper
currents of the air, or bathe its crowning plumes of living green in the clouds of heaven.

Proceeding in this manner, he at length found himself gradually descending the western slope
of the hill; when he soon arrived in the vicinity of the river, a glimpse of which, together
with a small clearing and a tidy-looking cottage on its banks, he now caught through the tops
of the intervening trees. The reason of this seems to be the enormous quantity of forest over which
that wind blows, and the leaves of the trees affording such an extensive surface of evaporation.
One remarkable peculiarity in the climate of Canada, when compared
with those to which we have likened it, is its dryness.

Far from the ocean, the salt particles that somehow or other exist in the atmosphere of sea-bounded countries
are not to be found here; roofs of tinned iron of fifty years' standing are as bright as the
day they came out of the shop; and you may leave a charge of powder in your gun for a month, and
find, at the end of it, that it goes off without hanging fire. The diseases of the body, too, that
are produced by a damp atmosphere, are uncommon here. It may be a matter of surprise to some to hear,
that pectoral and catarrhal complaints, which, from an association
of ideas they may connect with cold, are here hardly known.

In the cathedral at Montreal, where from three to five thousand people assemble every Sunday, you will
seldom find the service interrupted by a cough, even in the dead of winter and in hard frost; whereas,
in Britain, from the days of Shakspeare, even in a small country church, "coughing drowns the
parson's saw."

Pulmonary consumption, too, the scourge alike of England and the
sea-coast of America, is so rare in the northern parts of New York
and Pennsylvania, and the whole of Upper Canada, that in eight years' residence
I have not seen as many cases of the disease as I have in a day's visit
to a provincial infirmary at home.
Claud stopped short, in mute surprise at the unexpected apparition; for the first glance at
her face told him that the original of his mysterious miniature was before him,--before him,
here in the woods! Breathless and speechless in her wild affright, she pointed, with a glance
over her shoulder, to a thick, high tangle of large, strongly limbed, knotty, windfallen trees,
a short distance behind her, and fled past him to the rear. Looking in the indicated direction,
the startled and perplexed young man distinguished the outlines of a monstrous moose madly
plunging at the woody barrier, and trying to force his enormous antlers through the unyielding
limbs preparatory to leaping it in pursuit of his victim, who had eluded the infuriated animal,
and barely escaped the fatal blows of his uplifted hoofs, by creeping under the providentially
placed obstruction. Claud instantly raised his piece, when, feeling uncertain of his aim, he
withheld his fire, and stood waiting for a fairer view. But, before he could obtain it, the
moose, tired of vain attempts to force his passage through the bristling barricade of logs
and limbs before him, disappeared for one moment, but the next came crashing round the nearest
end of it, and, with renewed demonstrations of rage and hostility, made directly for the new
opponent he beheld in his way. Still unalarmed for his own safety, Claud waited with levelled
gun till his formidable assailant was within forty yards of him, when he took a quick aim and
fired. Reeling under the discharge of his heavily loaded piece, and blinded by the smoke, he
could not, at first, see the effect of his fire; but when he did so, the next instant, it was
only to behold the monster brute, maddened, not stopped, by the flesh wounds inflicted, rushing
on him with a force and fury which compelled him to leap suddenly aside, to avoid being beat
into the earth by those terrible hoofs, which he saw lifted higher and higher, at each approaching
step, for his destruction. Mindful, in his peril, of the precautions already learned from the
hunters, Claude, while the moose, whose tremendous impetus was driving him straight ahead,
could break up, so as to turn in the pursuit,--Claud made, with all the speed of which he was
master, for a huge hemlock, luckily standing at no great distance on his right; a course which
he thought would divert the monster from pursuit of the maiden, and, at the same time, best
insure his own safety. But, so prodigious was the rushing speed of the foiled and now doubly
exasperated moose, that the imperilled huntsman had barely time to reach the sheltering tree
and dodge behind it, before the hotly pursuing foe was at his heels, rasping and tearing with
his spiked antlers the rough bark of the tree, in his attempts to follow round it near and
fast enough to overtake and strike down his intended victim. Round and round then sped both
pursuer and pursued, as fast as the frantic rage of the one, and the keen instinct of self-preservation
in the other, could impel them. It is chief distributing point for the county, has a sawmill, shingle
mill, fruit-drying establishment, stores, churches, schools, a newspaper,
etc.

OAK HARBOR, further north, is the center of a large farming and logging district. Two canneries
are in successful operation.

UTSALADY, SAN DE FUCA, CAMANO, CLINTON, and LANGLEY are smaller villages gradually becoming summer
resorts for people from the large cities of the sound. Steamboats furnish good transportation from all parts
of the county.

[Page 61] JEFFERSON COUNTY

Jefferson county is the second county
south of the entrance of Puget sound, stretching from the Pacific
ocean eastward over the peaks of the Olympic mountains to Hood's canal,
and turning north gets a long waterfront also on Puget sound, and
taps the Straits of Fuca.

It has a population of 11,000 people and 2,000 square miles of territory.

RESOURCES.

The

resources of this county are largely undeveloped, and yet it is one of the oldest settled counties in the
state. Originally its entire area, barring a few small patches, was heavily
timbered, and it is estimated that the county still has twenty billion
feet of standing timber.

Its soil is remarkably fertile, and the products of its farms have
long been famous.

The Olympic mountains contain veins of precious metals, iron and manganese, none of which have as yet
been thoroughly developed.

Fishing for salmon, sardines, shrimps, clams and crabs is a very important
industry.

SOILS, CLIMATE AND PRODUCTS.

The soils of the county are largely sedimentary, having been washed
down from the mountains for ages, assisted by the decomposition of
vegetable matter accumulated through centuries.

In the valleys, where most of the farming is being done, these
soils produce remarkable crops under the influence of the charming
climate the county affords.

The rainfall in
the eastern part of the county is moderate, but ample for all purposes;
the average rainfall is about 20 inches. The temperature rarely exceeds
80 degrees in summer, while the winter months average about 45 degrees.

Such
soils and such climatic conditions combine to force wealth upon every
industrious tiller of the soil. Clover yields from four to six tons
per acre.

"Yes, and a bouncer at that," replied the hunter, going up and, placing his foot on the broad
and still quivering flank of the huge animal. "Good twenty hands high, and weighs, well, not
much short of fifteen hundred, I should say."

"But are they often thus dangerous?" asked Claud.

"Not very often, perhaps," rejoined the hunter. "But still the bull moose, at this season of
the year, is sometimes, when wounded, about as ugly a customer as you meet with in the woods.
This fellow I judge to have been oncommon vicious, as he begun his tantrums before he was touched
at all, it seems. I dunno but 'twas the woman put the devil into him, as women do into two-legged
animals sometimes,--don't they, young man?"

"The woman? O yes, the young lady," said Claud, reminded of his duty as a gallant by the remark,
though unwilling to appropriate to himself the prophetic joke with which it was coupled. "Where
is she? I must go and see to her."

"She has already seen to herself, I guess," said the hunter. "As I was coming up, I glimpsed
her cutting round and running, like a wild turkey, for the clearing, to which the moose had
cut off her retreat. She has reached the house by this time, doubtless; for it is hard by,
down on the river here, a hundred rods or such a matter."

"Who is she? Do you know the family?" eagerly inquired the young man.

"No," answered the hunter. "They are new-comers in these parts."

"What could have brought her here so far into the woods?" persisted Claud.

"The raspberries, very likely," said the other, indifferently, while taking out and examining
the edge of his knife. "But come, we must get this moose into some condition, so that he will
keep; then be off to let the settlers know of our luck. And early to-morrow morning, we will,
all hands, come up the river in boats, and distribute him. He will make fresh meat enough to
supply the whole settlement."

The hunter now, with the assistance of his new pupil in the craft, proceeded to dressing the
moose, the process of which, bleeding, disemboweling, and partially skinning, was soon completed;
when, cutting some stout green skids with the hatchet he ever carried in his belt, and inserting
the ends under the bulky carcass, the two contrived to raise it, by means of old logs rolled
up for the purpose, several feet from the ground, so as to insure a free circulation of air
beneath it. This being done, the hunter kindled two log fires, one on each side, to keep off,
he said, the wolves and other carnivorous animals. They then, after cutting out the tongue
and lip, which are esteemed the tidbits of this animal, took up their line of march for the
lake, which, with the long, rapid lope of the woodsman, measured off, as usual, in Indian file,
and with little or no interrupting conversation, they reached in a short time, and without
further adventure.

"Now," said the hunter, as he reached the spot where his canoe was tied, and turned round towards
his lagging companion,--"now, sir, what say you to taking a five-pound trout?"

"Perfectly willing," replied Claud, smiling; "and I would even take up with a smaller one."

"Well, I won't,--that is, not much smaller; and I think I'll have one of at least the size
I named."

"What makes you so confident?"

"Because, it being a hot, shiny morning, they took to their coverts early, and must be sharp-set,
by this time. Besides that, it is just about the best time for them that could be got up: a
deep cloud, as you see, is coming over the sun, and this wind is moving the water to the bottom.
All sizes will now be coming out, and the big ones, like big folks, will make all the little
ones stand back till their betters are served."

Each now taking to his canoe, they pushed out some twenty or thirty rods into the lake, cast
anchor, and threw out their lines. Claud, who baited with grubs, soon had drawn in two, weighing
as many pounds a piece, and began to feel disposed to banter the hunter, who had baited with
a flap of moose-skin, which he had brought along with him, and which, to Claud, seemed little
likely to attract the fishes to his hook. But he soon found himself mistaken; for, turning
to give utterance to what was passing in his mind, he beheld the other dallying with a trout,
which he had hooked, and now held flapping on the surface of the water, evidently much larger
than either of his own.

"That is a fine one!" cried Claud. "Why don't you pull him in?"

"Not big enough," said the hunter, in reply to the question; while he turned to the fish with
an impatient "Pshaw! what work the cretur makes of it! Hop off, hop off, you fool! I tried them once
by way of dessert after dinner, but my stomach was offended at their
intrusion; probably it was more the idea than the taste that caused
the stomach to rebel.

Time and experience have convinced me that there is not much danger
in roving amongst snakes and wild beasts, provided only that you have
self- command. You must never approach them abruptly; if so, you are
sure to pay for your rashness, because the idea of self-defence is predominant
in every animal, and thus the snake, to defend himself from what
he considers an attack upon him, makes the intruder feel the deadly
effect of his poisonous fangs.

The jaguar flies at you, and knocks you senseless with a stroke of
his paw; whereas, if you had not come upon him too suddenly, it is
ten to one but that he had retired in lieu of disputing the path with
you.

The labarri-snake is very poisonous, and I have often approached within
two yards of him without fear.

I took care to move very softly and gently, without moving my arms,
and he always allowed me to have a fine view of him without showing
the least inclination to make a spring at me.

He would appear to keep his eye fixed on me as though suspicious,
but that was all.

Sometimes I have taken a stick ten feet long and placed it on the labarri's
back. He would then glide away without offering resistance. But when
I put the end of the stick abruptly to his head, he immediately opened
his mouth, flew at it, and bit it.

One day, wishful to see how the poison comes out of the fang of the
snake, I caught a labarri alive. He was about eight feet long.

I held him by the neck, and my hand was so near his jaw that he had
not room to move his head to bite it.

This was the only position I could have held him in with safety and
effect. To do so it only required a little resolution and coolness.
I then took a small piece of stick in the other hand and pressed
it against the fang, which is invariably in the upper jaw.

Towards the point of the fang there is a little oblong aperture on the convex side of it. Through
this there is a communication down the fang to the root, at which lies a little bag containing
the poison.

Now, when the point of the fang is pressed, the root of the fang
also presses against the bag, and sends up a portion of the poison
therein contained.

Thus, when I applied a piece of stick to the point of the fang, there
came out of the hole a liquor thick and yellow, like strong camomile-tea.

This was the poison which is so dreadful in its effects as to render
the labarri-snake one of the most poisonous in the forests of Guiana.

I once caught a fine labarri and made it bite itself. I forced the poisonous fang into its belly.
In a few minutes I thought it was going to die, for it appeared dull
and heavy.

However, in half an hour's time he was as brisk and vigorous as ever,
and in the course of the day showed no symptoms of being affected.

Is then the life of the snake proof against its own poison? This subject is not unworthy of the consideration
of the naturalist.

In Guiana there is a
little insect in the grass and on the shrubs which the French call
bete-rouge. It is of a beautiful scarlet colour, and so minute that you
must bring your eye close to it before you can perceive it. It is most numerous
in the rainy season. Its bite causes an intolerable itching. The
best way to get rid of it is to rub the part affected with oil or rum.
You must be careful not to scratch it. If you do so, and break the skin,
you expose yourself to a sore. The first year I was in Guiana the bete-
rouge and my own want of knowledge, and, I may add, the little attention
I paid to it, created an ulcer above the ankle which annoyed me for
six months, and if I hobbled out into the grass a number of bete-rouge
would settle on the edges of the sore and increase the inflammation.

Still more inconvenient,
painful and annoying is another little pest called the chegoe. It looks
exactly like a very small flea, and a stranger would take it for one.
However, in about four and twenty hours he would have several broad hints
that he had made a mistake in his ideas of the animal. It attacks
different parts of the body, but chiefly the feet, betwixt the toe-nails and the
flesh. There it buries itself, and at first causes an itching not unpleasant.
In a day or so, after examining the part, you perceive a place about the size of
a pea, somewhat discoloured, rather of a blue appearance. Sometimes it happens
that the itching is so trivial, you are not aware that the miner
is at work. That is your king pine in a blaze from bottom to top. Hark! why,
I can hear it roaring clear here, like a distant hurricane. It must be a prodigious hot fire
to make all that show and noise."

"Can it endanger our buildings?" asked Claud, in alarm.

"I am afraid so," replied the other, with a dubious shake of the head. "But hark again! 'tis
your father's horn blowing for help."

"Let us row, then, as for our lives!" cried the now thoroughly aroused and agitated young man.
"If any thing happens before I get there, I shall never forgive myself for my prolonged absence,
to the last day of my life. You will join me in going there, will you not?"

"Yes, and outstrip you by half a mile. But that won't be the best way. Throw your anchor into
the stern of my canoe, and fall in behind. There; now keep the anchor-line slack between us,
if you can," rapidly said the hunter, bending his sinewy form to the work, with a power that
sent his canoe half out of the water at every stroke of his swiftly-falling oar.

Leaving them to bound over the billowy waters of the lake towards their destination, with all
the speed which strong arms and nerves made tense with excitement could impart, let us anticipate
their arrival, to note what befell the objects of their anxieties, whom we so abruptly left
in their perils from the fire, to bring up the other incidents of the day having an equal bearing
on the story, with which we have thus far occupied the present somewhat extended chapter.

The immediate danger to their house from the fire, with which we left the alarmed Elwood and
his wife contending, was, indeed, easily overcome by dashing pails of water over the roof.
But scarcely had they achieved this temporary triumph in one place over an element proverbially
terrible when it becomes master, before it was seen kindling into flickering blazes on the
roof of the barn and the locks of hay protruding from its windows and the crevices between
the logs of which it was built. Here, also, they soon succeeded in extinguishing the fire in
the same manner. They were not, however, allowed a moment's respite from either their labors
or alarms. The fences were by this time on fire in numerous places; and the chips and wood
in the door-yard were seen to be igniting from the sparks and cinders which, every instant,
fell thicker and hotter around their seemingly devoted domicil. The fences, after a few vain
attempts to save them, were given up a prey to the devouring element, and the whole exertions
of the panting and exhausted sufferers were turned to saving their buildings; and even at that
they had no time to spare; for, so hot had the air become from the burning slash, which, through
its whole length, was now glowing with the red heat of a furnace, that every vestige of moisture
had soon disappeared from the drenched roofs, and they were again on fire.

"Is there no way of raising help?" exclaimed Mrs. Elwood, in her extremity, as she witnessed
these increasing manifestations of danger.

"I never thought of that," said Elwood. "Hand me the dinner-horn. If there are any within hearing,
they will understand, with the appearance of this fire, that we are calling for assistance."

With a few sharp, loud blasts, Elwood threw aside the horn, and again flew to the work of extinguishing
the fires where they became most threatening. And thus, for nearly another hour, the distressed
settler and his heroic wife, suffering deeply from heat and exhaustion, toiled on, without
gaining the least on the fearful enemy by which they were so closely encompassed. And they
were on the point of giving up in despair, when the welcome shout of "Help at hand!" from the
ringing voice of the hunter, then just entering the opening, revived hope in their sinking
hearts. The next moment that help was on the spot; but it was unnecessary. A mightier Hand
was about to interpose. From the bold, black van of the hurrying and deeply-charged rack of
cloud, that had now unheeded gained the zenith, a stream of fire, before which all other fires
paled into nothing, at that instant descended on the top of the burning pine, and, rending
it from top to bottom by the single explosion, sent its wide-flying fragments in blazing circles
to the ground. A sharp, rattling sound, terminating in a cannon-like report, followed, shaking
the rent and crashing heavens above, and the bounding earth beneath, in the awful concussion.
Before the stunned and blinded settlers had recovered from the shock, or the deep roll of the
echoing thunder had died away among the distant mountains, another and more welcome roar saluted
their ears. It was that of the rapidly-approaching rain striking the foliage of the neighboring
forest; and, scarcely had they time to gain the cover of the house, before the deluging torrents
poured over it with a force and fury beneath which the quelled fires speedily sunk, hissing,
into darkness and death.

CHAPTER VII.

  "Wo is the youth whom Fancy gains,
  Winning from Reason's hands the reins."

The morning of the next day, serene and beautiful as a bride decked in her fresh robes and
redolent in her forest perfumery, came smiling over the wilderness hills of the east, to greet
our little pioneer family on their deliverance from the perils of yesterday. The war of the
elements, that had raged so fearfully round their seemingly devoted domicile, had all passed
away; and, after sleeping off the fatigue and excitement of the previous day, they rose to
look around them, to find themselves safe, and call themselves satisfied. Their buildings had
been, after all, but very slightly injured, and their green crops but little damaged; their
fences, indeed, were mostly consumed; but these could be replaced from the timber of the burnt
slash, with little more labor than would be required to pile up and burn that timber where
it lay. But, whatever such additional labor might be, it was more than compensated by the very
intensity of the fire which caused it, and which, at the same time, had so utterly consumed
all the underbrush, limbs of the trees, and even the smaller trees themselves, that weeks less
than with ordinary burns would be required in the clearing. Elwood, therefore, came in from
his morning survey happily disappointed in the supposed extent of his losses; and, joining
his wife and son in the house, whom he found busily engaged in cutting up, mealing, and placing
in the hissing pan over the fire the broad, red, and rich-looking pieces of trout, the fruit
of yesterday's excursion on the lake, he told them, with a gratified air, the result of his
observation, which, on a merchant-like calculation of loss and gain from the conflagration,
he made out to show even a balance in his favor. Mrs. Elwood rejoiced with her husband on the
happy turn of affairs, and wondered why her son did not manifest the same flow of spirits.
But the latter, for some reason or other, appeared unusually abstracted during the whole morning;
and, when asked to relate the particulars of his perilous adventure with the moose, which he
had the evening before but briefly mentioned, he exhibited a hesitation, and a sort of shying
of the question, in that part of the adventure relating to the rescued girl, which did not
escape the quick eye of the mother. The reason of this seems to be the enormous quantity of forest
over which that wind blows, and the leaves of the trees affording such an extensive surface of evaporation.
One remarkable peculiarity in the climate of Canada, when compared with those to which we have
likened it, is its dryness. Far from the ocean, the salt particles that somehow or other exist
in the atmosphere of sea-bounded countries are not to be found here; roofs of tinned iron of
fifty years' standing are as bright as the day they came out of the shop; and you may leave
a charge of powder in your gun for a month, and find, at the end of it, that it goes off without
hanging fire. The diseases of the body, too, that are produced by a
damp atmosphere, are uncommon here.

It may be a matter of surprise to some to hear, that pectoral and catarrhal complaints, which,
from an association of ideas they may connect with cold, are here hardly known. In the cathedral
at Montreal, where from three to five thousand people assemble every Sunday, you will seldom
find the service interrupted by a cough, even in the dead of winter and in hard frost; whereas, in
Britain, from the days of Shakspeare, even in a small country church, "coughing drowns the
parson's saw." Pulmonary consumption, too, the scourge alike of England and the sea-coast of America,
is so rare in the northern parts of New York and Pennsylvania, and the whole of Upper Canada,
that in eight years' residence I have not seen as many cases of the
disease as I have in a day's visit to a provincial infirmary at home. It was this principle that
now affected Mrs. Elwood: not that she had the most distant idea that her son harbored aught
of wrong intention toward any of his family, but she felt that his mind was somehow becoming
subservient to schemes which existed somewhere in the minds of others, which concerned her
or her family. Hark! some one comes.

[Music]

With the song, movement begins. The steps taken should be gentle and
gliding, the arms outstretched as in entreaty, the hands moved as
in beckoning, not with one finger but all the fingers slowly bending
toward the open palm. "Things look a little
altered round here, this morning. I should hardly have known the place without the king pine,
which, in its prime, was a tree of a thousand."

"That tree was an old acquaintance of yours, I suppose," remarked Elwood.

"Yes, of twenty years' standing; and I shall miss and mourn it as an old friend. But it died
like a monarch, yielding only under the direct blow of the Almighty."

"Then you consider the lightning more especially the instrument of Heaven than the wind, fire,
and other elements, do you?"

"To be sure I do. Wind, we know what it is; fire we know; water we also know; because we can
see them, touch them, measure them. But who can see a piece of lightning when not in motion?
who can find the least fragment of it after it has struck? It rends a tree, makes a smooth
hole through a board, and ploughs up the ground. In the course of a mile and a half we passed two small
creeks on the south, one of eighteen the other of thirty yards width, but neither of them containing
any water, and encamped on the south at a point of woodland, having made only seven miles. The
country is much the same as yesterday, with little timber in the low grounds, and a small quantity
of pine and cedar on the northern hills. The river however continues to grow clearer, and this
as well as the increased rapidity induces us to hope for some change
of country. I came here to rally you out to go up
the river with the rest of us, for the moose. You will both go, won't you?"

"Claud will, doubtless," replied Mr. Elwood. "Indeed, I have half a mind to go myself."

"Perhaps Claud, having had a fatiguing excursion yesterday, will stay at home, and let his
father go, to-day," suggested Mrs. Elwood.

"It was not at all fatiguing, mother," responded Claud.

"The wind blows up the river to-day, ma'am," said the hunter, with a knowing look.

