You cackle like a young hen with her first egg."  So spoke Mrs. Tynan to her daughter, who
alternately swung backwards and forwards in a big rocking-chair, silently gazing into the distant
sky, or sat still and "cackled" as her mother had said.

A person of real observation and astuteness, however, would have noticed that Kitty's laughter
told a story which was not joy and gladness-- neither good humour nor the abandonment of a
luxurious nature. It was tinged with bitterness and had the smart of the nettle.

Her mother's question only made her laugh the more, and at last Mrs. Tynan stooped over her
and said, "I could shake you, Kitty.  You'd make a snail fidget, and I've got enough to do
to keep my senses steady with all the house-work--and now her in there!"  She tossed a hand
behind her fretfully.

Quick with love for her mother, as she always was, Kitty caught the other's trembling hand.
"You've always had too much to do, mother; always been slaving for others.  You've never had
time to think whether you're happy or not, or whether you've got a problem--that's what people
call things, when they're got so much time on their hands that they make a play of their inside
feelings and work it up till it sets them crazy."

Mrs. Tynan's mouth tightened and her brow clouded.  "I've had my problems too, but I always
made quick work of them.  They never had a chance to overlay me like a mother overlays her
baby and kills it."

"Not 'like a mother overlays,' but 'as a mother overlays,'" returned Kitty with a queer note
to her voice.  "That's what they taught me at school.  The teacher was always picking us up
on that kind of thing. I said a thing worse than that when Mrs. Crozier"--her fingers motioned
towards another room--"came to-day.  I don't know what possessed me.  I was off my trolley,
I suppose, as John Sibley puts it.  Well, when Mrs. James Shiel Gathorne Crozier said--oh,
so sweetly and kindly--'You are Miss Tynan?' what do you think I replied?  I said to her, 'The
same'!"

Rather an acidly satisfied smile came to Mrs. Tynan's lips.  "That was like the Slatterly girls,"
she replied.  "Your father would have said it was the vernacular of the rail-head.  He was
a great man for odd words, but he knew always just what he wanted to say and he said it out.
You've got his gift.  You always say the right thing, and I don't know why you made that break
with her--of all people."

A meditative look came into Kitty's eyes.  "Mr. Crozier says every one has an imp that loves
to tease us, and trip us up, and make us appear ridiculous before those we don't want to have
any advantage over us."

"I don't want Mrs. Crozier to have any advantage over you and me, I can tell you that.  Things'll
never be the same here again, Kitty dear, and we've all got on so well; with him so considerate
of every one, and a good friend always, and just one of us, and his sickness making him seem
like our own, and--"

"Oh, hush--will you hush, mother!" interposed Kitty sharply.  "He's going away with her back
to the old country, and we might just as well think about getting other borders, for I suppose
Mr. Bulrush and his bonny bride will set up a little bulrush tabernacle on the banks of the
Nile"--she nodded in the direction of the river outside--"and they'll find a little Moses and
will treat it as their very own."

"Kitty, how can you!"

Kitty shrugged a shoulder.  "It would be ridiculous for that pair to have one of their own.
It's only the young mother with a new baby that looks natural to me."

"Don't talk that way, Kitty," rejoined her mother sharply.  "You aren't fit to judge of such
things."

"I will be before long," said her daughter.  "Anyway, Mrs. Crozier isn't any better able to
talk than I am," she added irrelevantly.  "She never was a mother."

"Don't blame her," said Mrs. Tynan severely.  "That's God's business. I'd be sorry for her,
so far as that was concerned, if I were you.  It's not her fault."

"It's an easy way of accounting for good undone," returned Kitty. "P'r'aps it was God's fault,
and p'r'aps if she had loved him more--"

Mrs. Tynan's face flushed with sudden irritation and that fretful look came to her eyes which
accompanies a lack of comprehension.  "Upon my word, well, upon my word, of all the vixens
that ever lived, and you looking like a yellow pansy and too sweet for daily use!  Such thoughts
in your head!  Who'd have believed that you--!"

Kitty made a mocking face at her mother.  "I'm more than a girl, I'm a woman, mother, who sees
life all around me, from the insect to the mountain, and I know things without being told. If by chance
the mountaineers had a surplus of any product, there was no one to whom they might sell it. Atlanta is usually
considered to be far down in the South, and yet the distance from
Atlanta to Boston or Minneapolis is less than to El Paso.

Again, New Orleans is nearer to Cincinnati than to Raleigh. There were, moreover, many racial strains
in the South. The Scotch-Irish of the Piedmont in the Carolinas had, and have yet, little in common
with the French of Louisiana. The lowlander of South Carolina and the hill men of Arkansas differed
in more than economic condition.

Even in the same State, different sections were not in entire accord. If by any chance the majority adopted
a course obnoxious to the minority, the decision must be accepted loyally if not cheerfully, and
the full white vote must be cast. Objection to a candidate or measure must not be expressed at the ballot
box. Personal ambition must be restrained, and weakness and even unfitness in a candidate must
be overlooked for the sake of white solidarity. The task of creating a permanently
solid South was not easy. The Southerner had always been an individualist,
freely exercising his right to vote independently, engaging in sharp
political contests before 1861, and even during the War. The Confederate
Congress wrangled impotently while Grant was thundering at the gates
of Richmond.

So strong was the memory of past differences, that old party designations
were avoided.

It was the general feeling on the part of the whites that to fail
to vote was shameful, to scratch a ticket was a crime, and to attempt
to organize the negroes was treason to one's race.

The "Confederate brigadier" sounded the rallying cry at every election, and a military record
came to be almost a requisite for political preferment. Men's eyes were turned to the past, and on
every stump were recounted again and again the horrors of Reconstruction and the valiant deeds
of the Confederate soldiers. In Virginia and the Carolinas, for example, economic conditions and
traditions-- and traditions are yet a power in the South-- differed
greatly in different sections.

In the hearts of thousands of men and women the Old South is enshrined, and
there is no room for the new; but the South as a whole is a New South,
marked by a spirit of hopefulness, a belief in the future, and a desire
to take a fuller part in the life of the nation. To trace the development
of the new spirit and to discuss its manifestations is the purpose of
this book.

CHAPTER II THE CONFEDERATE SOLDIER TAKES CHARGE As the year 1877 was
beginning, the carpetbag governments in nine of the Southern States
had been already overthrown. In two other States were two sets of
officers, one of which represented the great mass of the whites while
the other was based upon negro suffrage and was supported by Federal
bayonets.

Both sides seemed determined, and trouble was expected. The Republican contestants in Florida
had already yielded to a decision of the Supreme Court of the State,
but in South Carolina and Louisiana the Republican claimants held
on until the orders to withdraw the troops were given in April, 1877.

The withdrawal of the troops marked the definite end of Reconstruction.
The Democratic claimants then took undisputed possession of the executive
and legislative departments of these States.

The native whites were again in entire charge of all the States which
had seceded. They now had the task of rebuilding the commonwealths shattered
by war and by the aftermath of war.

Threats of loss of employment, eviction from house or plantation, or refusal of credit were frequent.
In many sections such measures were enough, and Democrats were ordinarily chosen at the polls. Where
the negroes were in a larger majority, stronger measures were adopted. Around election time armed
bands of whites would sometimes patrol the roads wearing some special badge or garment. Men would gallop past
the houses of negroes at night, firing guns or pistols into the air and occasionally into
the roofs of the houses. Negroes talking politics were occasionally visited and warned-- sometimes
with physical violence-- to keep silent. On election day determined men
with rifles or shotguns, ostensibly intending to go hunting after
they had voted, gathered around the polls.

An occasional random shot might kick up the dust near an approaching negro. Men actually or apparently the
worse for liquor might stagger around, seeking an excuse for a fight.
No one who really knows the whole South could be guilty of such a
mistake.

The first difficulty is to determine the limits of the South. The census classification of States
is open to objection. Delaware, Maryland, and West Virginia are included
in the South, and so is Kentucky. Missouri is excluded, but a place
is made for the new State of Oklahoma.

As to Delaware and Maryland, there may be a difference of opinion, though it is difficult to
justify the inclusion of the former.

West Virginia is certainly not Southern, socially, politically, or
economically.

Now they came into their own.

In some States the organization of voters was almost military. During the first years after the downfall
of the Reconstruction governments the task of consolidating the white South was measurably
achieved. As some one flippantly put the case, there came to be in many sections "two kinds
of people-- Democrats and negroes." What a candidate had done in the
past in another field seemed more important even than his actual
qualifications for the office to which he aspired.

A study of the Congressional Record or of lists of state officers proves the truth of this statement.
In 1882, fourteen of the twenty-two United States Senators from the seceding States had military
records and three had been civil officers of the Confederacy. Several States had solid delegations
of ex-Confederate soldiers in both houses. When one reads the proceedings of Congress, he finds
the names of Vance and Ransom, Hampton and Butler, Gordon and Wheeler, Harris and Bate, Cockrell
and Vest, Walthall and Colquitt, Morgan and Gibson, and dozens of other Confederate officers. The
process of unifying the white South was not universally successful, however. Here and there
were Republican islands in a Democratic or Conservative sea.

The largest and most important exception was the Appalachian South, divided among eight different States.
It is a large region, to this day thinly populated and lacking in means of communication with the
outside world. Though it has some bustling cities, thriving towns, and prosperous
communities, the Appalachian South today is predominantly rural. In the
216 counties in this region or its foothills, there were in 1910 only
43 towns with more than 2500 inhabitants. This Appalachian region
had been settled by emigrants from the lowlands. Some of them were
of the thriftless sort who were forced from the better lands in the East
by the inexorable working of economic law.

By far the greater part, however, were of the same stock as the restless pioneers who poured over
the mountains to flood the Mississippi Valley.

Students of the mountain people maintain that so small an accident as the breaking of a linchpin fixed one family
forever in a mountain cove, while relatives went on to become the builders of new States in the interior.
Cut off from the world in these mountains, there have been preserved to this day many of the idioms,
folksongs, superstitions, manners, customs, and habits of mind of Stuart
England, as they were brought over by the early colonists. The steep
farms afforded a scanty living, and though the cattle found luscious
pasturage during the summer, they were half starved during the winter.

Kentucky is doubtful, and it is difficult to see why Missouri should be excluded from any list
which includes Kentucky. Oklahoma is difficult to classify. But, at any rate the South is a large
country, with a great variety of soil, climate, and population.

As the crow flies, the distance from Richmond to Memphis, in an adjoining State,
is greater than from Richmond to Bangor, Maine. From Richmond to
Galveston is farther than from Richmond to Omaha or Duluth. They lived
almost without the convenience of coinage as a means of exchange.

Naturally in such a society there was no place for slaves, and to this day negroes are not welcome in many
mountain counties. The political organization to which allegiance was
demanded was generally called the Conservative party, and the Republican
party was universally called the Radical party.

The term Conservative was adopted partly as a contrast, partly because the peace party had been so
called during the War, and especially because the name Democrat was
obnoxious to so many old Whigs.

It was not until 1906 that the term Conservative was officially dropped from the title of the dominant
party in Alabama. It is not surprising that men continued to turn for
leadership to those who had led in battle and, to a less extent, to
those who had taken part in the civil government of the Confederacy.
But for the humiliations of Reconstruction, some of these men might
have been discredited, but the bitter experiences of those dotage
had restored them to popular favor.

As the Federal soldier marched out of the public buildings everywhere,
the Confederate soldier marched in. These men had led in the contest
against the scalawags and the carpetbaggers and many had suffered
thereby.

As the years passed, apathy began to disappear in some parts of the South. Wiser men recognized
that the old had gone never to return. Men began to face the inevitable. Instead of brooding
upon their grievances, they adjusted themselves, more or less successfully,
to the new economic and social order, and by acting in harmony with
it found that progress was not so impossible as they had supposed.

White planters found that the net returns from their farms on which they themselves had labored were
greater than when a larger force of negroes had been employed; shrewd
men began to put their scanty savings together to take advantage of
convenient water power.

Securing
the bare necessities of life was no longer a difficult problem for every
one. Men began to find pleasure in activity rather than in mere passivity
or obstruction.

Somehow, somewhere, sometime, a new hopefulness was born and this new
spirit-- evidence of new life-- became embodied in "the New South." The
expression is said to have been used first by General Adam Badeau when
stationed in South Carolina, but the New South of which he spoke
was not the New South as it is understood today.

Many others have used the term loosely to signify any change in economic or social conditions which
they had discovered. The first man to use the expression in a way which sent it vibrating
through the whole nation was Henry W. Grady, the gifted editor of the Atlanta
Constitution.

In a speech made in 1886 by invitation of the New England Society of New York City, he took for his
theme "the New South" and delivered an oration which, judged by its effects, had some of the marks
of greatness. He went on, however, to mail the feeling that the outcome
had been for the best, and painted a picture of the new spirit of the
South, a trifle enthusiastic perhaps, but still recognizable.

Today a New South may be said to be everywhere apparent. The Old South still exists in nooks and
corners of many States, it is true: there are communities, counties,
groups of counties, which cling to the old ideas. There was another class of
people in the South, some of whom had been rabid secessionists and whose
Republicanism had no other foundation than a desire for the loaves
and fishes.

The salaries attached to some of the Federal offices seemed enormous at that time and, before the
prohibition wave swept the South, there were in the revenue service thousands of minor appointments for
the faithful. These deputy marshals, "storekeepers and gaugers," and petty postmasters attempted
to keep up a local organization. The collectors of internal revenue, United States marshals,
other officers of the Federal courts, and the postmasters in the larger towns controlled these men
and therefore the state organizations. These Federal officials broke
the unanimity of the white Confederacy, and they were supported by
thousands of negroes.

Some individuals among them were shrewd politicians, but the contest
was unequal from the beginning.

On one side was intelligence, backed by loyal followers fiercely determined
to rule. On the other was a leadership on the whole less intelligent,
certainly more selfish, with followers who were ignorant and susceptible
to cajolery or intimidation. Before the downfall of the Reconstruction
governments, and in the first few years afterward, there was much
intimidation of negroes who wished to vote.

A new era for the South had dawned, and here properly begins the history of the New South. The first and
most important problem, as the white South saw it, was the maintenance of
white supremacy which had been gained with so much difficulty. In
only three States-- South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana-- were there negro
majorities. Obviously, if the whites could be induced or coerced to stand
together, they could continue to control the governments in eight of the seceding
States. The negro population, however, was not distributed uniformly over
any of these States, so that, no matter how great the white preponderance
in the State as a whole, there were counties or other civil divisions
where negroes were in the majority.

This meant that the issue of white supremacy was present in every State, for the negro majorities
in such counties could elect the local officers and control the local governments.
To attain a political consolidation of the white population all other issues
must be subordinated. Differences of opinion and judgment must be
held in abeyance.

No question upon which white men might seriously disagree must be placed
in the party platform, if any way to avoid such insertion could be found. But
though these mountain people have missed contact with the outside world and
have been deprived of the stimulus of new ideas, they seldom give
evidence of anything that can fairly be classed as degeneracy. Ignorance,
illiteracy, and suspended or arrested development the traveler of today
will find among them, and actions which will shock his present-day
standards; but these same actions would hardly have shocked his own
father's great-grandfather.

These isolated mountaineers have been aptly called "our contemporary
ancestors."

The same people, it is true, had poured out of their cabins to meet Ferguson at
King's Mountain; they had followed Jackson to New Orleans and to Florida
and they had felt the influence of the wave of nationalism which swept
the country after the War of 1812.

But back to their mountains they had gone, and the great current of national progress swept
by them. The movement toward sectionalism, which developed after the Missouri Compromise, had left
them cold. So the mountaineers held to the Union.

They did not volunteer freely for the Confederacy, and they resisted conscription. How many were enlisted
in the Union armies it is difficult to discover, certainly over
100,000. It is not surprising, therefore, that these people became Republicans
and have so continued in their allegiance.

Another element in the population having great influence in the South-- in North Carolina, at
least-- was the Society of Friends. It was strong in both the central and the eastern sections.
Many, but by no means all, of the Quakers opposed the Civil War and, after peace came, opposed the men who
had been prominent in the War, that is, the dominant party. In spite of the social stigma attaching
to Republicanism, many of the Quakers have persisted in their membership
in that party to the present day.

In all the seceding States there was a Union element in 1861, and, while most of the men composing
it finally went into the War with zeal, there were individuals who resisted stoutly During the
War they were abused without stint, but this criticism had only the
effect of making them more stubborn.

They naturally became Republicans after the War and furnished some of the votes which made Reconstruction
possible. With these may be classed the few Northern men who remained in the South after the
downfall of the Reconstruction governments.

  Five years--and
not a word from him.

Five years--and not a letter from him!  Her eyes involuntarily fell on the high desk with the
greenbaize top.  Of all the letters he had written at that desk not one had been addressed
to her.  Slowly, and with an unintentional solemnity, she went up to it and laid a hand upon
it.  Her chin only cleared the edge of it-he was a tall man, her husband.

"This is the place of secrets, I suppose?" she said, with a bright smile and an attempt at
gaiety to Kitty, who had watched her with burning eyes; for she had felt the thrill of the
moment.  She was as sensitive to atmosphere of this sad play of life as nearly and as vitally
as the deserted wife.

"I shouldn't think it a place of secrets," Kitty answered after a moment. "He seldom locks
it, and when he does I know where the key is."

"Indeed?"  Mona Crozier stiffened.  A look of reproach came into her eyes.  It was as though
she was looking down from a great height upon a poor creature who did not know the first rudiments
of personal honour, the fine elemental customs of life.

Kitty saw and understood, but she did not hasten to reply, or to set things right. In England, where
their growth was most rapid, 82 out of the total of 102 towns had
merchant gilds by the end of the thirteenth century.

Usually the town itself was inclosed by strong walls, and admission was
to be gained only by passing through the gates, where one might be
accosted by soldiers and forced to pay toll.

Inside the walls were clustered houses of every description. Rising from
the midst of tumble-down dwellings might stand a magnificent cathedral,
town-hall, or gild building. Here and there a prosperous merchant would
have his luxurious home, built in what we now call the Gothic style, with
pointed windows and gables, and, to save space in a walled town,
with the second story projecting out over the street.

The streets were usually in deplorable condition.

There might be one or two
broad highways, but the rest were mere alleys, devious, dark, and
dirty. Often their narrowness made them impassable for wagons. In
places the pedestrian waded gallantly through mud and garbage; pigs
grunted ponderously as he pushed them aside; chickens ran under his
feet; and occasionally a dead dog obstructed the way.

There were no sidewalks, and only the main thoroughfares were paved. Dirt and filth
and refuse were ordinarily disposed of only when a heaven-sent rain
washed them down the open gutters constructed along the middle, or
on each side, of a street.

Not only was there no general sewerage for the town, but there was likewise no public water supply.
Self-sufficient and secluded from the outer world, the rural village went on treasuring its traditions,
keeping its old customs, century after century. The country instinctively
distrusted all novelties; it always preferred old ways to new; it
was heartily conservative.

Country-folk did not discover America. It was the enterprise of the
cities, with their growing industries and commerce, which brought about
the Commercial Revolution; and to the development for wool, or wheat
for flax.

And as the towns grew in size, the prosperous citizens proved to be the
best customers for foreign luxuries, and foreign trade grew apace. Town, trade,
and industry thus worked together: trade stimulated industry, industry, and
dyeing, often resulted in the reduction of several gilds to a dependent
position.

The regulation of the processes of manufacture, once designed to keep up the standard of skill, came
in time to be a powerful hindrance to technical improvements; and in the method as well as in the
amount of his work, the enterprising master found himself handicapped. Even the old conscientiousness
often gave way to greed, until in many places inferior workmanship received the approval of the gild.
Many craft gilds exhibited in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries a tendency to split somewhat along
the present lines of capital and labor. On the one hand the old gild
organization would be usurped and controlled by the wealthier master-workmen,
called "livery men," because they wore rich uniforms, or a class of
dealers would arise and organize a "merchants'company" to conduct
a wholesale business in the products of a particular industry.

How keenly the cold pierced the dark huts of the poorest, is hard for us to imagine. The winter diet
of salt meat, the lack of vegetables, the chronic filth and squalor, and the sorry ignorance of
all laws of health opened the way to disease and contagion. And if the crops failed, famine was added
to plague. On the other hand we must not forget that the tenement-houses of our great cities
have been crowded in the nineteenth century with people more miserable
than ever was serf of the middle ages.

The serf, at any rate, had the open air instead of a factory in which
to work.

When times were good, he had grain and meat in plenty, and possibly
wine or cider, and he hardly envied the tapestried chambers, the bejeweled
clothes, and the spiced foods of the nobility, for he looked upon
them as belonging to a different world.

In one place nobleman and peasant met on a common footing-- in the village church. There, on Sundays and
feast-days, they came together as Christians to hear Mass; and afterwards,
perhaps, holiday games and dancing on the green, benignantly patronized
by the lord's family, helped the common folk to forget their labors.

The village priest, [Footnote: Usually very different from the higher
clergy, who had large landed estates of their own, the parish priests
had but modest incomes from the tithes of their parishioners and
frequently eked out a living by toiling on allotted patches of ground. The
monks too were ordinarily poor, although the monastery might be wealthy,
and they likewise often tilled the fields.] himself often of humble
birth, though the most learned man on the manor, was at once the friend
and benefactor of the poor and the spiritual director of the lord.

Occasionally a visit of the bishop to administer confirmation to the
children, afforded an opportunity for gayety and universal festivity.
So the reviving commerce of the later middle ages between Europe
and the East meant the growth of cities and betokened an advance in
civilization.

[Sidenote: Revival of Trade with the East] Trade between Europe and Asia, which had been a feature
of the antique world of Greeks and Romans, had been very nearly destroyed by the barbarian invasions
of the fifth century and by subsequent conflicts between Mohammedans and Christians, so that during several
centuries the old trade-routes were traveled only by a few Jews and
with the Syrians.

It was useless to attempt to breed fine cattle when all were herded
together.

The breed deteriorated, and both cattle and sheep were undersized
and poor.

This restriction of membership was not the only way in which the
trade was supervised. The gild had rules specifying the quality of materials
to be used and often, likewise, the methods of manufacture; it might
prohibit night-work, and it usually fixed a "fair price" at which
goods were to be sold.

By means of such provisions, enforced by wardens or inspectors, the gild not only perpetuated the
"good old way" of doing things, but guaranteed to the purchaser a thoroughly good article at a fair
price. Picturesque and quaint the sixteenth-century town may have been;
but it was also an uncomfortable and an unhealthful place in which to
live. TRADE PRIOR TO THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION Just as agriculture
is the ultimate basis of human society, so town-life has always been
an index of culture and civilization. And the fortunes of town-life
have ever depended upon the vicissitudes of trade and commerce.

[Footnote:
Several important places, such as London, Colchester, and Norwich, belonged
to the small minority without merchant gilds.] On the Continent many
towns, especially in Germany, had quite different arrangements, and where merchant
gilds existed, they were often exclusive and selfish groups of merchants
in a single branch of business.

[Sidenote: Decline mona Merchant Guilds] With the expansion of trade and industry in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries the rule of the old merchant gilds, instead of keeping pace with the times,
became oppressive, limited, or merely nominal.

Where the
merchant gilds became oppressive oligarchical associations, as they
did in Germany and elsewhere on the Continent, they lost their power
by the revolt of the more democratic "craft gilds."

In England specialized control of industry and trade by craft gilds, journeymen's
gilds, and dealers'associations gradually took the place of the general
supervision of the older merchant gild.

After suffering the loss of its vital functions, the merchant gild by
the sixteenth century either quietly succumbed or lived on with power
in a limited branch of trade, or continued as an honorary organization
with occasional feasts, or, and this was especially true in England,
it became practically identical with the town corporation, from which
originally it had been distinct.

[Sidenote:
Industry: the Craft Guilds] Alongside of the merchant gilds, which had been
associated with the growth of commerce and the rise of towns, were other
guilds connected with the growth of industry, which retained their importance
long after 1500. These were the craft gilds. [Footnote: The craft
gild was also called a company, or a mistery, or metier (French), or
Zunft (German).] Springing into prominence in the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries, the craft gild sometimes, as in Germany, voiced a popular
revolt against corrupt and oligarchical merchant gilds, and sometimes
most frequently so in England-- worked quite harmoniously with the
merchant gild, to which its own members belonged.

In common with the merchant gild, the craft gild had religious and
social aspects, and like the merchant gild it insisted on righteous
dealings; but unlike the merchant gild it was composed of men in a single
industry, and it controlled in detail the manufacture as well as
the marketing of commodities.

There were bakers'gilds, brewers'gilds, smiths'gilds, saddlers'gilds,
shoemakers'gilds, weavers'gilds, tailors'gilds, tanners'gilds, even
gilds of masters of arts who constituted the teaching staff of colleges
and universities. When to-day we speak of a boy "serving his apprenticeship"
in a trade, we seldom reflect that the expression is derived from
a practice of the medieval craft gilds, a practice which survived
after the gilds were extinct.

At night respectable town-life was practically at a standstill:
the gates were shut; the curfew sounded; no street-lamps dispelled
the darkness, except possibly an occasional lantern which an altruistic
or festive townsman might hang in his front-window; and no efficient
police-force existed-- merely a handful of townsmen were drafted from
time to time as "watchmen" to preserve order, and the "night watch"
was famed rather for its ability to sleep or to roister than to protect
life or purse.

Under these circumstances the citizen who would escape an assault
by ruffians or thieves remained prudently indoors at night and retired
early to bed.

[Sidenote: Merchant Gilds] A peculiar outgrowth of the need for protection
against oppressive feudal lords, as well as against thieves, swindlers,
and dishonest workmen, had been the typically urban organization known as
the merchant gild or the merchants'company. The roads were poor and
in wet weather impassable. Travel was largely on horseback, and
what few commodities were carried from place to place were transported
by pack-horses.

Only a few old soldiers, and possibly a priest, had traveled very much; they were the only geographies and the
only books of travel which the village possessed, for few peasants could read
or write. Apprenticeship was designed to make sure that recruits
to the trade were properly trained.

The apprentice was usually selected as a boy by a master-workman
and indentured-- that is, bound to work several years without wages,
while living at the master's house.

After
the expiration of this period of apprenticeship, during which he had
learned his trade thoroughly, the youth became a "journeyman," and
worked for wages, until he should finally receive admission to the
gild as a master, with the right to set up his own little shop, with apprentices
and journeymen of his own, and to sell his wares directly to those
who used them.

These concessions they eventually had won, and each city had its
charter, in which its privileges were enumerated and recognized by
the authority of the nobleman, or of the king, to whom the city owed
allegiance.

TOWNS ON THE EVE OF THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION [Sidenote: Trade and
the Towns] Except for the wealthy Italian city-states and a few other
cities which traced their history back to Roman times, most European
towns, it must be remembered, dated only from the later middle ages.

At first there was little excuse for their existence except to sell to farmers salt, fish, iron,
and a few plows. But with the increase of commerce, which, as we shall see, especially marked the
thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries, more merchants traveled
through the country, ways of spending money multiplied, and the little
agricultural villages learned to look on the town as the place to
buy not only luxuries but such tools, clothing, and shoes as could
be manufactured more conveniently by skillful town artisans than by
clumsy rustics.

The towns, moreover, became exchanges where surplus farm products could be marketed, where wine could
be bartered of commerce, industry, and the towns, we now must turn
our attention. In the year 1500 the merchant gilds were everywhere
on the decline, but they still preserved many of their earlier and
more glorious traditions.

At the time of their greatest importance they had embraced merchants, butchers,
bakers, and candlestick-makers: in fact, all who bought or sold in
the town were included in the gild. And the merchant gild had then
possessed the widest functions.

[Sidenote: Earlier Functions of the Merchant Gild.] [Sidenote: Social] Its social and religious functions,
inherited from much earlier bodies, consisted in paying some special honor to a patron saint, in giving
aid to members in sickness or misfortune, attending funerals, and
also in the more enjoyable meetings when the freely flowing bowl enlivened
the transaction of gild business.

[Sidenote: Protective] As a protective organization, the gild had
been particularly effective.

Backed by the combined forces of all the gildsmen, it was able to
assert itself against the lord who claimed manorial rights over the
town, and to insist that a runaway serf who had lived in the town
for a year and a day should not be dragged back to perform his servile
labor on the manor, but should be recognized as a freeman.

The protection of the gild was accorded also to townsmen on their travels. In those days all strangers
were regarded as suspicious persons, and not infrequently when a merchant of the gild traveled to another
town he would be set upon and robbed or cast into prison. In such cases it was necessary for the gild to
ransom the imprisoned "brother" and, if possible, to punish the persons
who had done the injury, so that thereafter the liberties of the
gild members would be respected. That the business of the gild might be
increased, it was often desirable to enter into special arrangements
with neighboring cities whereby the rights, lives, and properties
of gildsmen were guaranteed; and the gild as a whole was responsible
for the debts of any of its members.

[Sidenote: Regulative] The most important duty of the gild had been the regulation of the home market.
Burdensome restrictions were laid upon the stranger who attempted to utilize
the advantages of the market without sharing the expense of maintenance.

No goods were allowed to be carried away from the city if the townsmen
wished to buy; and a tax, called in France the octroi, was levied on
goods brought into the town.

[Footnote: The octroi is still collected in Paris.] Moreover, a conviction
prevailed that the gild was morally bound to enforce honest straightforward
methods of business; and the "wardens" appointed by the gild to supervise
the market endeavored to prevent, as dishonest practices, "forestalling"

(buying outside of the regular market), "engrossing" (cornering the
market), [Footnote: The idea that "combinations in restraint of trade"
are wrong quite possibly goes back to this abhorrence of engrossing.]
and "regrating"

(retailing at higher than market price). The dishonest green grocer was
not allowed to use a peck-measure with false bottom, for weighing and measuring
were done by officials. Cheats were fined heavily and, if they persisted
in their evil ways, they might be expelled from the gild. These merchant
gilds, with their social, protective, and regulative functions, had
first begun to be important in the eleventh century. [Sidenote: Partial
Decay of Craft Gilds] By the opening of the sixteenth century the
craft gilds, though not so weakened as the merchant gilds, were suffering
from various internal diseases which sapped their vitality.

They tended to become exclusive and to direct their power and affluence
in hereditary grooves.

A full-grown ox was hardly
larger than a good-sized calf of the present time. Moreover, there
were no potatoes or turnips, and few farmers grew clover or other grasses
for winter fodder.

It was impossible, therefore, to keep many cattle through the winter;
most of the animals were killed off in the autumn and salted down
for the long winter months when it was impossible to secure fresh
meat. [Sidenote: Peasant Life on the Manor] Crude farm-methods and
the heavy dues exacted by the lord [Footnote: In addition to the dues
paid to the lay lord, the peasants were under obligation to make a regular
contribution to the church, which was called the "tithe" and amounted
to a share, less than a tenth, of the annual crops.] of the manor must
have left the poor man little for himself. Compared with the comfort of the
farmer today, the poverty of sixteenth-century peasants must have been inexpressibly
distressful. Thus the rich drapers sold all the cloth, but did not
help to make it.

On the other hand it became increasingly difficult for journeymen
and apprentices to rise to the station of masters; oftentimes they
remained wage-earners for life.

In order to better their condition they formed new associations, which in
England were called journeymen's or yeomen's companies. These new organizations
were symptomatic of injustice but otherwise unimportant. The craft
gilds, with all their imperfections, were to continue in power awhile
longer, slowly giving away as new trades arose outside of their control,
gradually succumbing in competition with capitalists who refused to
be bound by gild rules and who were to evolve a new "domestic system,"
[Footnote: See Vol.

II, ch xviii.] and slowly suffering diminution of prestige through royal interference. [Sidenote:
Life in the Towns] In the year 1500 the European towns displayed
little uniformity in government or in the amount of liberty they possessed.
Some were petty republics subject only in a very vague way to an extraneous
potentate; some merely paid annual tribute to a lord; some were administered
by officers of a king or feudal magnate; others were controlled by
oligarchical commercial associations.

But of the general appearance and life of sixteenth-century towns, it is possible to secure a more
uniform notion. It must be borne in mind that the towns were comparatively small, for the great
bulk of people still lived in the country. A town of 5000 inhabitants was then accounted large; and
even the largest places, like Nuremberg, Strassburg, London, Paris,
and Bruges, would have been only small cities in our eyes.

The approach to an ordinary city of the time lay through suburbs,
farms, and garden-plots, for the townsman still supplemented industry
with small-scale agriculture. They steadily raised their entrance
fees and qualifications.

Struggles between gilds in allied trades, such as spinning, weaving, fulling assisted trade, and
the town profited by both. By the sixteenth century the towns had
grown out of their infancy and were maintaining a great measure of political
and economic freedom. [Sidenote: Rural Isolation and Conservatism]
At other times there was little to disturb the monotony of village
life and little to remind it of the outside world, except when a gossiping
peddler chanced along, or when the squire rode away to court or to
war.

Intercourse with other villages was unnecessary, unless there were no blacksmith or miller on the spot.
In many of the garden plots at the rear of the low-roofed dwellings were dug wells which provided water
for the family; and the visitor, before he left the town, would be likely to meet with water-sellers
calling out their ware. To guard against the danger of fires, each municipality encouraged its
citizens to build their houses of stone and to keep a tub full of water before every building; and in each district
a special official was equipped with a proper hook and cord for pulling
down houses on fire.

[Sidenote: Freedom of the Towns.] [Sidenote: Town Charters] Originally
many a town had belonged to some nobleman's extensive manor and its inhabitants
had been under much the same servile obligations to the lord as were
the strictly rural serfs. But with the lapse of time and the growth of
the towns, the townsmen or burghers had begun a struggle for freedom
from their feudal lords.

They did not want to pay servile dues to a baron, but preferred to substitute
a fixed annual payment for individual obligations; they besought the right
to manage their market; they wished to have cases at law tried in
a court of their own rather than in the feudal court over which the
nobleman presided; and they demanded the right to pay all taxes in
a lump sum for the town, themselves assessing and collecting the share
of each citizen.

In England these charters had been acquired generally by merchant
gilds, upon payment of a substantial sum to the nobleman; in France
frequently the townsmen had formed associations, called communes,
and had rebelled successfully against their feudal lords; in Germany
the cities had leagued together for mutual protection and for the
acquisition of common privileges.

Other towns, formerly founded by bishops, abbots, or counts, had received charters at the very outset.
  "If
you put them in a trough where the water could run off, the dirt would go with the water, and
you would'nt waste time and intelligence, and your fingers would be cleaner in the end."

The only reply Kitty made was to flick the broomhead at him.  It had been dipped in water,
and the spray from it slightly spattered his face.

"Will you never grow up?" he exclaimed as he applied a handkerchief to his ruddy face.

"I'd like you so much better if you were younger--will you never be young?" she asked.

"It makes a man old before his time to have to meet you day by day and live near you."

"Why don't you try living with me?" she retorted.  "Ah, then, you meant me when you said to
Mrs. Crozier that you were going to be married? Wasn't that a bit 'momentary'?  as my mother's
cook used to remark.  I think we haven't 'kept company'--you and I"

"It's true you haven't been a beau of mine, but I'd rather marry you than be obliged to live
with you," was the paradoxical retort.

"You have me this time," he said, trying in vain to solve her reply.

Kitty tossed her head.  "No, I haven't got you this time, thank Heaven, and I don't want you;
but I'd rather marry you than live with you, as I said.  Isn't it the custom for really nice-minded
people to marry to get rid of each other--for five years, or for ever and ever and ever?"

"What a girl you are, Kitty Tynan!" he said reprovingly.  He saw that she meant Crozier and
his wife.

Kitty ceased her work for an instant and, looking away from him into the distance, said: "Three
people said those same words to me all in one day a thousand years ago.  It was Mr. Crozier,
Jesse Bulrush, and my mother; and now you've said it a thousand years after; as with your inexpensive
education and slow mind you'd be sure to do."

"I have an idea that Mrs. Crozier said the same to you also this very day.  Did she--come,
did she?"

"She didn't say, 'What a girl you are!' but in her mind she probably did say, 'What a vixen!"'

The Young Doctor nodded satirically.  "If you continued as you began when coming from the station,
I'm sure she did; and also I'm sure it wasn't wrong of her to say it."

"I wanted her to say it.  That's why I uttered the too, too utter-things, as the comic opera
says.  What else was there to do?  I had to help cure her."

"To cure her of what, miss?"

"Of herself, doctor-man."

The Young Doctor's look became graver.  He wondered greatly at this young girl's sage instinct
and penetration.  "Of herself?  Ah, yes, to think more of some one else than herself!  That is--"

"Yes, that is love," Kitty answered, her head bent over the pail and stirring the potatoes hard.

"I suppose it is," he answered.

"I know it is," she returned.

"Is that why you are going to be married?" he asked quizzically.

"It will probably cure the man I marry of himself," she retorted.  "Oh, neither of us know
what we are talking about--let's change the subject!" she added impatiently now, with a change
of mood, as she poured the water off the potatoes.

There was a moment's silence in which they were both thinking of the same thing.  "I wonder
how it's all going inside there?" he remarked. "I hope all right, but I have my doubts."

"I haven't any doubt at all.  It isn't going right," she answered ruefully; "but it has to
be made go right."

"Whom do you think can do that?"

Kitty looked him frankly and decisively in the face.  Her eyes had the look of a dreaming pietist
for the moment.  The deep-sea soul of her was awake.  "I can do it if they don't break away
altogether at once.  I helped her more than you think.  I told her I had opened that letter."

He gasped.  "My dear girl--that letter--you told her you had done such a thing, such--!"

"Don't dear girl me, if you please.  I know what I am doing.  I told her that and a great deal
more.  She won't leave this house the woman she was yesterday.  She is having a quick cure--a
cure while you wait."

"Perhaps he is cured of her," remarked the Young Doctor very gravely.

"No, no, the disease might have got headway, but it didn't," Kitty returned, her face turned
away.  "He became a little better; but he was never cured.  That's the way with a man.  He
can never forget a woman he has once cared for, and he can go back to her half loving her;
but it isn't the case with a woman.  There's nothing so dead to a woman as a man when she's
cured of him.  The woman is never dead to the man, no matter what happens."

The Young Doctor regarded her with a strange, new interest and a puzzled surprise.  "Sappho--Sappho,
how did you come to know these things!" he exclaimed.  "You are only a girl at best, or something
of a boy-girl at worst, and yet you have, or think you have, got into those places which are
reserved for the old-timers in life's scramble.  You talk like an ancient dame."

Kitty smiled, but her eyes had a slumbering look as if she was half dreaming.  "That's the
mistake most of you make--men and women.  There's such a thing as instinct, and there's such
a thing as keeping your eyes open."

"What did Mrs. Crozier say when you told her about opening that five- year-old letter?  Did
she hate you?"

Kitty nodded with wistful whimsicality.  "For a minute she was like an industrious hornet.
Then I made her see she wouldn't have been here at all if I hadn't opened it.  That made, her
come down from the top of her nest on the church-spire, and she said that, considering my opportunities,
I was not such an aboriginal after all."

"Now, look you, Saphira, prospective wife of Ananias, she didn't say that, of course.  Still,
it doesn't matter, does it?  The point is, suppose he opens that letter now."

"If he does, he'll probably not go with her.  It was a letter that would send a man out with
a scalping-knife.  Still, if Mr. Crozier had his land-deal through he might not read the letter
as it really is.  His brain wouldn't then be grasping what his eyes saw."

"He hasn't got his land-deal through.  He told me so just now before he saw her."

"Then it's ora pro nobis--it's pray for us hard," rejoined Kitty sorrowfully.  "Poor man from
Kerry!"  At that moment Mrs. Tynan came from the house, her face flushed, her manner slightly
agitated.  "John Sibley is here, Kitty--with two saddle-horses....  He says you promised to
ride with him to-day."

"I probably did," responded Kitty calmly.  "It's a good day for riding too.  But John will
have to wait.  Please tell him to come back at six o'clock.  There'll be plenty of time for
an hour's ride before sundown."

"Are you lame, dear child?" asked her mother ironically.  "Because if you're not, perhaps you'll
be your own messenger.  It's no way to treat a friend--or whatever you like to call him."

Kitty smiled tenderly at her mother.  "Then would you mind telling him to come here, mother
darling?  I'm giving this doctor-man a prescription. Ah, please do what I ask you, mother!
It is true about the prescription. It's not for himself; it's for the foreign people quarantined
inside." She nodded towards the room where Shiel Crozier and his wife were shaping their fate.

As her mother disappeared with a gesture of impatience and the remark that she washed her hands
of the whole Sibley business, the Young Doctor said to Kitty, "What is your prescription, Ma'm'selle
Saphira?  Suppose they come out of quarantine with a clean bill of health?"

"If they do that you needn't make up the prescription.  But if Aspen Vale hasn't given him
what he wanted, then Mr. Shiel Crozier will still be an exile from home and the angel in the
house."

"What is the prescription?  Out with your Sibylline leaves!"

"It's in that unopened letter.  When the letter is opened you'll see it effervesce like a seidlitz
powder."

"But suppose I am not here when the letter is opened?"

"You must be here-you must.  You'll stay now, if you please."

"I'm afraid I can't.  I have patients waiting."  Kitty made an impetuous gesture of command.
"There are two patients here who are at the crisis of their disease.  You may be wanted to
save a life any minute now."

"I thought that with your prescription you were to be the AEsculapius."

"No, I'm only going to save the reputation of AEsculapius by giving him a prescription got
from a quack to give to a goose."

"Come, come, no names.  You are incorrigible.  I believe you'd have your joke on your death-bed."

"I should if you were there.  I should die laughing," Kitty retorted.

"There will be no death-bed for you, miss.  You'll be translated--no, that's not right; no
one could translate you."

"God might--or a man I loved well enough not to marry him."

There was a note of emotion in her laugh as she uttered the words.  It did not escape the ear
of the Young Doctor, who regarded her fixedly for a moment before he said: "I'm not sure that
even He would be able to translate you.  You speak your own language, and it's surely original.
I am only just learning its alphabet.  No one else speaks it.  I have a fear that you'll be
terribly lonely as you travel along the trail, Kitty Tynan."

A light of pleasure came into Kitty's eyes, though her face was a little drawn.  "You really
do think I'm original--that I'm myself and not like anybody else?" she asked him with a childlike
eagerness.

"Almost more than any one I ever met," answered the Young Doctor gently; for he saw that she
had her own great troubles, and he also felt now fully what this comedy or tragedy inside the
house meant to her.  "But you're terribly lonely--and that's why: because you are the only
one of your kind."

"No, that's why I'm not going to be lonely," she said, nodding towards the corner of the house
where John Sibley appeared.

Suddenly, with a gesture of confidence and almost of affection, she laid a hand on the Young
Doctor's breast.  "I've left the trail, doctor-man. I'm cutting across the prairie.  Perhaps
I shall reach camp and perhaps I shan't; but anyhow I'll know that I met one good man on the
way.  And I also saw a resthouse that I'd like to have stayed at, but the blinds were drawn
and the door was locked."

There was a strange, eerie look in her face again as her eyes of soft umber dwelt on his for
a moment; then she turned with a gay smile to John Sibley, who had seen her hand on the Young
Doctor's chest without dismay; for the joy of Kitty was that she hid nothing; and, anyhow,
the Young Doctor had a place of his own; and also, anyhow, Kitty did what she pleased.  Once
when she had visited the Coast the Governor had talked to her with great gusto and friendliness;
and she had even gone so far as to touch his arm while, chuckling at her whimsically, he listened
to a story she told him of life at the rail-head.  And the Governor had patted her fingers
in quite a fatherly way--or not, as the mind of the observer saw it; while subsequently his
secretary had written verses to her.

"So you've been gambling again--you've broken your promise to me," she said reprovingly to
Sibley, but with that wonderful, wistful laughter in her eyes.

Sibley looked at her in astonishment.  "Who told you?" he asked.  It had only happened the
night before, and it didn't seem possible she could know.

He was quite right.  It wasn't possible she could know, and she didn't know.  She only divined.

"I knew when you made the promise you couldn't keep it; that's why I forgive you now," she
added.  "Knowing what I did about you, I oughtn't to have let you make it."

The Young Doctor saw in her words a meaning that John Sibley could never have understood, for
it was a part of the story of Crozier's life reproduced--and with what a different ending!

CHAPTER XV

"MALE AND FEMALE CREATED HE THEM"

When Crozier stepped out of the bright sunlight into the shady living- room of the Tynan home,
his eyes were clouded by the memory of his conference with Studd Bradley and his financial
associates, and by the desolate feeling that the five years since he had left England had brought
him nothing--nothing at all except a new manhood.  But that he did not count an asset, because
he had not himself taken account of this new capital.  He had never been an introspective man
in the philosophic sense, and he never had thought that he was of much account.  He had lived
long on his luck, and nothing had come of it--"nothing at all, at all," as he said to himself
when he stepped inside the room where, unknown to him, his wife awaited him.  So abstracted
was he, so disturbed was his gaze (fixed on the inner thing), that he did not see the figure
in blue and white over against the wall, her hand on the big arm-chair once belonging to Tyndall
Tynan, and now used always by Shiel Crozier, "the white-haired boy of the Tynan sanatorium,"
as Jesse Bulrush had called him.

There was a strange timidity, and a fear not so strange, in Mona's eyes as she saw her husband
enter with that quick step which she had so longingly remembered after he had fled from her;
but of which she had taken less account when he was with her at Lammis long ago-When Crozier
of Lammis was with her long ago.  How tall and shapely he was!  How large he loomed with the
light behind him! This question is: "in your opinion are the Negro colleges meeting the needs
of definite religious training?" every one's answer except one might
be summarized thus: some good has been accomplished but we are far
from the real goal.

We need reconstruction and a new impetus. The emphasis which they are putting on expressional activity
as an essential in the process of religious education does seem to
indicate that they regard self activity.

Wherever the social service was very scant the one reporting felt
it his duty to give an apology for the actual conditions and express
a hope of better results in the future.

This showed that they felt it the vital factor in the progressive socialization of the individuals.
The place of prominence given to worship, to religious services on Sunday and in the week is properly an
index to their conception concerning the value of worship or else
an index of their habit toward orthodoxy.

Circumstances surrounding these schools would suggest the former for
the larger number of these institutions. Some current CONCEPTIONS of religious
EDUCATION in RELATION to general EDUCATION religious education is
considered a part of general education and is included under that
genus.

What is general education? for a long time education was defined in terms of intellect, but that
ground is no longer tenable.

Spencer said: "Education is the preparation for complete living."
modern educators reject this as an inadequate statement of education.

Education does not merely prepare for something in the future. It endeavors to fill one full of
life, and human experience during the educative process.

Education must be expressed in social terms. James describes education as the organization of acquired habits
of conduct and tendencies to behavior. This emphasizes the psychological
side. It was thought that the aim of education could be expressed
in purely individual terms.

It was said to be the harmonious development of all the powers of
the individual.

Dewey attacks this definition showing that there is no criterion for telling what is meant by the terms
used.

There is nothing in the make-up of human beings, taken in any isolated way which furnishes controlling
ends and serves to mark out powers.

Unless we have the aim supplied by social life we have only the old faculty psychology to
furnish us with ideas of powers in general or the specific powers. [3] Dewey defines
education as the regulation of the process of coining to share in
the social consciousness.

And the majority of educators use social terms to define education. Soares has this conception in mind
when he gives the following definition of education. "Education is a scientifically directed process
of developing progressive socialized personality." but to achieve personality one must achieve sympathy
and sympathy is one of the concerns of religion. Hence all true education involves religion. What is religion?
Wright in the american Journal of Theology, Volume xvi, page 385, quotes leuba as defining religion
as a belief in a psychic superhuman power. Wright has objections to this definition on the ground
of its narrowness. He attempts to add breadth to the definition in: "Religion is the endeavor to secure
the conservation of socially recognized values, through specific
actions that are believed to evoke some agency different from the
ordinary ego of the individual or from other merely human beings,
and that imply a feeling of dependence upon this agency.

Religion is the social attitude toward the non-human environment."
this is not synonymous with sectarianism, creeds, dogmas or ceremonies.

Creeds and ceremonies have to do with ecclesiasticism not with religion per se. Creeds are developments
of theology and dogma is an outgrowth of religion and not religion.
Modes of worship developed into rites and ceremonies are ecclesiastical
means of fostering the religious spirit but not religion.

Religion is not a feeling to be imposed from without. Religion is a life and a life-long process. "the religious
life is the response the heart of man makes to God, as the heart of the
universe. The religious person is one who is conscious of his divinity
because of his kinship with the universe through God, and who because of
this consciousness seeks fellowship with God and the godly." having
arrived at the conclusion concerning education and religion which
are given by some of the most representative students of the subjects,
let us ascertain some conceptions of religious education.

As indicated in the beginning of this topic, religious education is not regarded as a separate
entity. It is a part of the process of efficient education. The human organism is a unit. Life is a whole
and connects physical, mental and religious phases. The whole personality is the object for consideration
for the educator. The emphasis in education varies from physical to
mental and from mental to religious, or social. When the emphasis is placed
on the social or religious phase the procedure may be properly called
religious education.

Professor Hartshorn carries the social idea to an adequate conclusion.
He says: "religious education is the process by which the individual
in response to a controlled environment, achieves a progressive, conscious
social [4] order based on regard for the worth and destiny of every
individual."

Professor Peabody states the matter in the following words: [5] "religious
education is the drawing up of the religious nature, the clarifying and
strengthening of religious ideals, the enriching and rationalizing
of the sense of God.... the end of religious education is service...."

Dewey's idea of education is much akin to the current conceptions
of religious education. The standard of each is found in the functional
relationship of each to society.

Modes of expression and emphasis may vary but the ideals for both are the same. Dr. Haslett [7]
has given an unique representation of this conception.

"religious education," says he, "is closely related to secular education and is largely dependent upon
it. The fundamental laws and principles of psychology and of education require to be recognized as central."
Professor Coe [8] reminds us, however, that "religious education is not and cannot be a mere
application of any generalities in which the university departments
of education deal.

It is not a mere particular that gets its meaning or finds its test in the general." religious education
deals with original data and with specific problems that rarely appear
in the instruction that is called'general'and that grow out of the
specific nature of our educational purpose.

In the analysis of these data and in the determination of the method, we can and must use matter contained
in general courses of education. But the field of study of religious education is not exhausted there,
but is so specific and yet so broad as either to constitute a recognized
branch of educational practice. The religious purpose in religious education
yields the point of view and the principles of classification that are important
for religious educators. The conceptions of religious education just
passed in review warrant certain deductions. Any institution which meets
adequately the requirements of religious education must have genuinely
religious men and women in the entire teaching and official force.

Such persons will determine the atmosphere and spirit of the institution.
These teachers should have clear conceptions of the ideals of religious
education.

The blind cannot lead the blind. The students must be trained along
three fundamental lines, of the religious life.

First, he must have some of the intellectual value of religion. He
must have social knowledge.

He must have the opportunity of expressing the devotional attitude in
worship. He must have the outlet of religious energy in social service.
The duty of the college will be far from discharged unless it makes
provision for laboratory religion where there is a working place for
each member.

Religion is a life and the college should be a society where this
life may be lived in its fullest extent, encouraging practical altruism
and giving the protection which an ideal society affords against demoralization.

EVOLUTION of religious EDUCATION in NEGRO COLLEGES and UNIVERSITIES the
problem of religious education in Negro institutions is real. On
the basis of the investigation we are able to point out some prominent
phases of the problem.

The first element of this problem is the teacher. There are in negro colleges, 22 teachers of
religious education who have had no professional training for the work. This means that one-fourth
of the entire corp of teachers of religion in these institutions are without the prestige, at
least, of even the semblance of professional training. Two main causes
account for this.

These institutions have not those who are professionally trained on their faculties and
they lack funds to procure the service of such persons. In the next place they think it is not necessary.
One observation here is important. These services seem to be significant in
proportion to the participation in them by the students themselves.

The Sunday School and the young People's meetings are the most popular services for the students. They do the
things in which they have a volitional interest. We cannot thrust our religious experiences upon the
students from without. They must achieve their own religious experience in contact with the environment
in which they live. The prayer meetings in all except four institutions follow a program which was
effective for those who lived in another civilization. The traditional
Negro prayer meeting does not function religiously in the life of
the Negro college student.

One of the big problems of religious education is compulsion in regard to religious services.
Where should that stop? many are beginning to think that the religious value of the services
is often nullified by the compulsory attendance.

There are many conscientious objectors among the students who think the removal
of compulsion would be conducive to better religious development.

But the likelihood on some swinging from one extreme to the other is very great. It is still a problem
left for the religious educators in the colleges to solve. The solution
must result in the conservation of the good found in the compulsory
system and the good to be found in freedom of choice.

Expressional activities are increasing in negro colleges but with
few exceptions these are inadequate in scope and number.

It is true that not enough students are able to share in the social service projects. This is really
one of, if not the most important factors in religious education. Men gain religious power by acting
out their beliefs, allowing their convictions to flow out into service. There is
an unfortunate lack of coordination of religious agencies in Negro
colleges.

Frequently we find several organizations attempting to do the same thing
and each makes a miserable failure in the attempt. More than that,
this lack of coordination and correlation results in duplications
which surely mean wasted energy and non-effectiveness.

If all of the religious agencies were supervised in such a way that
each would know his specific task and would not overlap that of other
agencies, much more effective work would be the result. There are signs
of hope in the religious education of these Negro colleges.

The almost unanimous recognition of the religious motive in efficient
education by the educators and the manifest consciousness of needs
of better religious education have been mentioned.

There are others. An increasing number of trained teachers from Northern, eastern and western colleges
and universities is evident. These men and women are coming from the institutions where the
points of view and training represented in the previous chapter are found. The summer schools of the various
colleges and universities in the North, East and West are offering
many of these modern religious education courses and larger numbers
of the teachers of religious education are availing themselves of
the opportunities.

Much literature of religious education published recently is finding its way to these schools, the most
notable of which is the religious Education Magazine. The following sources were used in the preparation
of this dissertation: american Missionary Association Report, 1916;
Baptist Missionary Society (Woman's) reports, 1910-1916; Catalogues--
Negro Colleges, 1916-1917; W. E. B. DuBois, Morals and Manners among
negro Americans, Atlanta University Publications, no. 18; Journal
of the Proceedings of the a. M. E. Church (General Conference), 1916;
Journal of the Proceedings of the methodist episcopal Church (General
Conference), 1916; Thomas J. Jones, Negro Education, united States
Bureau of Education, Bulletins 38 and 39, 1916; Thomas J. Jones, recent
Movements in Negro Association, organized Work in America, Vol.

Xiii; C. F. Kent, Training the College Teacher, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol.
X, p. 327; P. Monroe, Cyclopedia of Education, Vol.

I, p. 370; E. C. Moore, what is Education; a. Morgan, Education and social
Progress; F. G. Peabody, the religious Education of an american Child, Rel.
Educ. 1915, p. 107; i. J. Peritz, the Contents of an ideal Curriculum
of religious Instruction, Rel. Educ. Vol.

X, 1915, p. 362; C. Reed, the essential Place of Religion in Education, N.
E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913, p. 66; R. Rhees, Evangelisation
of Education, biblical World, August 1916, p. 66; C. E. Pugh, the essential
Place of Religion in Education, N. E. A. Monograph Publication, 1913,
p. 3; i. T. Wood, the Contents of an ideal Curriculum of religious
Instruction for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, p. 355 ff; E. N. Hardy, the Churches and the educated
Man; S. B. Haslett, pedagogical Bible School, Parts i and ii; international
Sunday School Education, united States Bureau of Education, 1912, Vol.

I; Questionnaires, from negro Colleges, 1917; United States Bureau of Education Investigations, Education
in the South, Bulletin 30, 1933; Monroe N. Work, Negro Year Book,
1914, 1915, 1916; young Men's christian Association, Report of the
international Committee, may 12, 1916; Year Book, 1915-1916.

The author used also the following works for general reference: W. S.
Athearn, Religion in the Curriculum-religious Education; R. E. Bolton,
Principles of Education; H. F. Cope, the efficient Layman; H. F. Cope,
fifteen Years of the religious Education Association, the american
Journal of Theology, July 1917, p. 385 ff; Committee Report, Standardization
of biblical Courses, Rel.

Educ. August, 1916, p. 314 ff; Crawford, the Media of religious Impression in College, N. E. A. 1914, p.
494 ff; John Dewey, ethical Principles underlying Education, moral Principles
in Education; t. S. O. Evans, the University young Men's christian Association
as a Training School for religious Leaders, Rel. Educ. 1908; H.
F. Fowler, the Contents of an ideal Curriculum of religious Education
for Colleges, Rel.

Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 332; the Survey of Progress in religious and moral
Education, Rel. Educ. 1915, Vol. X, p. 114. [2] none of these does all of
the things described, but all of them do at least some one of them.

[3] Dewey, ethical Principles underlying Education. [4] Ideals in
religious Education, R. E. A., June, 1917, p. 185.

[5] ibid., p. 94. [6] Dewey, ethical Principles underlying Education.
[7] pedagogical Bible School, page 207. [8] R. E. A., April 19, 1917,
page 123.

The AFTERMATH of NAT TURNER'S INSURRECTION [1] Nat Turner was a man
below the ordinary stature, though strong and active.

He was of unmixed african lineage, with the true Negro face, every
feature of which was strongly marked. He was not a preacher, as was generally
believed, though a man of deep religious and spiritual nature, and
seemed inspired for the performance of some extraordinary work.

He was austere in life and manner, not given to society, but devoted
his spare moments to introspection and consecration. He thought
often of what he had heard said of him as to the great work he was
to perform. He eventually became seized with this idea as a frenzy.

To use his own language he saw many visions. Receiving, as he says, further directions from the
holy Spirit, he communicated his designs to four of his most confidential
friends.

July 4, 1831, the anniversary of American Independence, was the day on which
the work of death was to have been begun. Nat Turner hesitated and allowed
the time to pass by, when, the mysterious signs reappearing, he determined to
begin at once the bloody work. Sunday, August 21, he met those who had
pledged their cooperation and support. They were hark Travis, Henry
Porter, Samuel Francis, Nelson Williams, will Francis and Jack reese,
with Nat Turner making the seventh. They worked out their plans while they
ate in the lonely woods of Southampton their feast of consecration,
remaining at the feast until long after midnight. The massacre was begun
at the house of Joseph Travis, the man to whom Nat Turner then belonged.

Armed with a hatchet Turner entered his master's chamber, the door having been broken
open with the axe, and aimed the first blow of death. The hatchet
glanced harmless from the head of the would-be victim and the first fatal blow
was given by will Francis, the one of the party who had got into
the plot without Nat Turner's suggestion.

All
of his master's household, five in number, soon perished. [4] the insurgents
procured here four guns, several old muskets with a few rounds of ammunition.
At the barn, under the command of Nat Turner the party was drilled
and maneuvered. Nat Turner himself assumed the title of General Cargill
with a stipend of ten dollars a day. Henry Porter, the paymaster, was
to receive five dollars a day, and each private one dollar.

Thence they marched from plantation to plantation until by Monday morning
the party numbered fifteen with nine mounted. Before nine o'clock the
force had increased to forty and the insurgents had covered an extent
of territory two or three miles distant from the first point of attack,
sweeping everything before them.

Nat Turner forth took his station in the rear, with fifteen or twenty of the
best armed and reliable men at the front, who generally approached
the houses as fast as their horses could run for the double purpose of preventing
escapes and striking terror. His force continued to increase until
they numbered sixty, all armed with guns, axes, swords, and clubs,
and mounted.

This line of attack was kept down until late Monday afternoon, when they
reached a point, about three miles distant from Jerusalem, the county
seat, where Nat Turner reluctantly yielded to a halt while some of his
forces went in search of reenforcements. He was eager to push on to
the county seat as speedily as possible and capture it. This delay
proved the turning point in the enterprise.

Impatient at the delay of his men who had turned aside, Turner started to the mansion house whither
they had gone and on their return to the wood found a party of white men
who had pursued the bloody path of the insurrectionists and disposed of
the guard of eight men whom Turner had left at the roadside. The white
men numbered eighteen and were under the command of Captain Alexander P. Peete.
They had been directed to reserve their fire until within thirty
paces, but one of their number fired on the insurgents when within
about one hundred yards.

Half of the whites beat a precipitate retreat when Nat Turner ordered his men to fire and rush
on them.

The few remaining white men stood their ground until Turner approached
within fifty yards, when they too followed the example of their comrades,
fired and retreated with several wounded.

Turner pursued and overtook some of them and their complete slaughter
was only prevented by the timely arrival of a party of whites approaching
in another direction from Jerusalem.

Being baffled, Nat Turner with a party of twenty men determined to
cross the Nottaway river at the Cypress Bridge and attack Jerusalem
where he expected to procure additional arms and ammunition from the
rear.

After trying in vain to collect a sufficient force to proceed to
Jerusalem, the insurgents turned back toward his rendezvous and reached
major Thomas Ridley's, where forty assembled.

He placed out sentinels and lay out to sleep, but there was to be
no sleep that night.

An attack on his forces was at hand, and the embarrassment which
ensued left him with one half, but Turner, determined to recruit his
forces, was proceeding in his effort to rally new adherents when the
firing of a gun by Hark was the signal for a fire in ambush and a
retreat followed.

After this Turner never saw many of his men any more.

They had killed fifty-five whites but the tide had turned.

Turner concealed himself
in the woods but was not dismayed, for by messenger he directed his
forces to rally at the point from which on the previous Sunday they
had started out on their bloody work; but the discovery of white men
riding around the place as though they were looking for some one in
hiding convinced him that he had been betrayed.

A reign of terror followed in Virginia. [5] Labor was paralyzed, plantations
abandoned, women and children were driven from home and crowded into nooks and
corners. The sufferings of many of these refugees who spent night after night
in the woods were intense. Retaliation began. In a little more than one
day 120 Negroes were killed. The newspapers of the times contained from
day to day indignant protests against the cruelties perpetrated.

One individual boasted that he himself had killed between ten and fifteen
Negroes. Volunteer whites rode in all directions visiting plantations. Negroes
were tortured to death, burned, maimed and subjected to nameless
atrocities.

Slaves who were distrusted were pointed out and if they endeavored to escape, they
were ruthlessly shot down. [6] a few individual instances will show
the nature and extent of this vengeance. There occurred other instances
which strikingly remind one of scenes before the civil War and during reconstruction.
He took passage in the stage coach, but the vehicle was intercepted. He
then fled to a friend's insurrection and the immolation of adequate
munitions of war being apparent, Commodore Warrington, in command
of the Navy Yard in Gosport, was induced to distribute a portion of
the public arms under his control.

For this purpose the government ordered detachments of the Light Infantry from
the seventh and fifty-fourth Regiments and from the fourth Regiment of
cavalry and also from the fourth Light Artillery to take the field
under Brigadier general Eppes.

Two regiments in Brunswick and Greenville were also called into service under
general William H. Brodnax and continued in the field until the danger
had passed.

Further aid was afforded by Commodore Eliott of the united States Navy
by order of whom a detachment of sailors from the Natchez was secured
and assistance also from Colonel House, the commanding officer at Fortress
Monroe, who promptly detached a part of his force to take the field
under Lieutenant Colonel worth. [10] the revolt was subdued, however,
before these troops could be placed in action and about all they accomplished
thereafter was the terrifying of Negroes who had taken no part in
the home but the house was broken open and he was dragged generally.

The civil authorities informed of the affair refused
to interfere.

The Governor of the commonwealth quickly called into service whatever forces
were at his command. The lack of others who were suspected. Sixty-one
white persons were killed.
  It was clear that the arrival of Mrs. Crozier had brought
him no relief, for Crozier's face was not that of a man who had found and opened a casket of
good fortune.

"Rather dangerous that, in the bedroom of a family man," he said, picking up the handkerchief
and looking suggestively from the lettering in the corner to Crozier.  He laid it down again,
smiling detestably.

Crozier calmly picked up the handkerchief, saw the lettering, then went quietly to the door
of the room and called Mrs. Tynan's name.  Presently she appeared.  Crozier beckoned her into
the room.  When she entered, he closed the door behind her.

"Mrs. Tynan," he said, "this fellow found your daughter's handkerchief on my table, and he
has said regarding it, 'Rather dangerous that, in the bedroom of a family man.'  What would
you like me to do with him?"

Mrs. Tynan walked up to Burlingame with the look of a woman of the Commune and said: "If I
had a son I would disown him if he didn't mangle you till your wife would never know you again,
you loathesome thing. There isn't a man or woman in Askatoon who'd believe your sickening slanders,
for every one knows what you are.  How dare you enter this house?  If the men of Askatoon had
any manhood in them they would tar- and-feather you.  My girl is as good as any girl that ever
lived, and you know it.  Now go out of here--now!"

Crozier intervened quietly.  "Mrs. Tynan, I asked him in here because it is my room.  I have
some business with him.  When it is over, then he shall go, and we will fumigate the place.
As for the tar-and-feathers, you might leave that to me.  I think I can arrange it.

"I'll turn the hose on him as he goes out, if you don't mind," the irate mother exclaimed as
she left the room.

Crozier nodded.  "Well, that would be appropriate, Mrs. Tynan, but it wouldn't cleanse him.
He is the original leopard whose spots are there for ever."

By this time Burlingame was on his feet, and a look of craft and fear and ugly meaning was
in his face.  Morally he was a coward, physically he was a coward, but he had in his pocket
a weapon which gave him a feeling of superiority in the situation; and after a night of extreme
self- indulgence he was in a state of irritation of the nerves which gave him what the searchers
after excuses for ungoverned instincts and acts call "brain-storms."  He had had sense enough
to know that his amorous escapades would get him into trouble one day, and he had always carried
the little pistol which was now so convenient to his hand.  It gave him a fictitious courage
which he would not have had unarmed against almost any man--or woman--in Askatoon.

"You get a woman to do your fighting for you," he said hatefully.  "You have to drag her in.
It was you I meant to challenge, not the poor girl young enough to be your daughter."  His
hand went to his waistcoat pocket.  Crozier saw and understood.

Suddenly Crozier's eyes blazed.  The abnormal in him--the Celtic strain always at variance
with the normal, an almost ultra-natural attendant of it awoke like a tempest in the tropics.
His face became transformed, alive with a passion uncanny in its recklessness and purpose.
It was a brain-storm indeed, but it had behind it a normal power, a moral force which was not
to be resisted.

"None of your sickly melodrama here.  Take out of your pocket the pistol you carry and give
it to me," Crozier growled.  "You are not to be trusted.  The habit of thinking you would shoot
somebody some time-- somebody you had injured--might become too much for you to-day, and then
I should have to kill you, and for your wife's sake I don't want to do that.  I always feel
sorry for a woman with a husband like you.  You could never shoot me.  You couldn't be quick
enough, but you might try. Then I should end you, and there'd be another trial; but the lawyer
who defended me would not have to cross-examine any witness about your character.  It is too
well-known, Burlingame.  Out with it--the pistol!" he added, standing menacingly over the other.

In a kind of stupor, under the storm that was breaking above him, Burlingame slowly drew out
of a capacious waistcoat pocket a tiny but powerful pistol of the most modern make. 

Before he was twenty-six he had acted as chief justice of the Bahamas
and Governor of the Isle of Providence. Prior to 1717 he married Sarah Walker
of Nassau, daughter of Colonel Walker, by whom he had four children,
George William, Thomas, Anne, and Sarah.

In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was
appointed Collector of the Port of Salem, Massachusetts, and removed
to that colony.

In 1731 his wife died, and very shortly afterward he married Deborah, widow
of Francis Clarke and daughter of Colonel Bartholomew Gedney of Salem, by
whom he had three children, Bryan, William Henry, and Hannah. In 1734
Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas, Sixth
Lord Fairfax (who, by direct inheritance from a royal grant of Charles
II, had come into possession of some five million acres of Virginia
land lying between the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and extending
from Chesapeake Bay to the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains,
known to Virginians as the Northern Neck); and to serve as Collector
of Customs for the South Potomac.

Fairfax first went to Westmoreland, where he was associated with
the Washington and Lee families.

Next he moved to King George, and lived at Falmouth. By 1741 he was
representing Prince William County in the House of Burgesses. Colonel
Fairfax was elevated to "His Majesty's Council of State" three years
later.

Becoming President of the Council in 1744, he continued in that
office until his death.

About this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall.

When his will was opened, it was by the side of Sarah he wished to
be buried: "As to my Body, I desire it may be interred under the Tombstone
in the enclosed ground in the Presbyterian Yard near where my first
wife and children are interred."

[76] This house was the social and political center of Alexandria. Such
men as Charles Carroll, Aaron Burr, John Paul Jones, John Marshall,
Thomas Jefferson, George Mason, George Washington, and the two Fairfaxes
are but a few of those who gathered here for good food, good wine,
and better talk.

Any visitor of importance was entertained at "coffee"; the house was often
filled with music, and "balls" were common.

The "Congress of Alexandria" confined there till afternoon by rain.

"It was described by Washington in an advertisement as having" four
convenient rooms and a wide Hall on the first floor. "In one of these" convenient
rooms, "more than two hundred years ago on July 19, 1743, Anne, eldest
daughter of Colonel Fairfax was married to Lawrence Washington of Mount
Vernon. John Carlyle divided his lands, named after the Scottish family
holdings, Limkiln, Bridekirk, Torthorwald Taken, between his two grandsons,
Carlyle Fairfax Whiting and John Carlyle Herbert.

To his daughter, Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax Street and one hundred feet on Cameron
Street, to include his dryware house. The mansion and all other property
were for a brief period the property of his only son.

In his will he expressed the utmost concern for the education of
this boy, George William Carlyle, and urged his executors to spare
no expense and to send him to the best schools.

Alas, for the plans of men!

The lad, fired by the talk of father and friends, was serving in
Lee's Legion in 1781, and ere John Carlyle was moldering in his grave
this boy of seventeen years, spirited, brave, heir to large estates,
great fortune and honorable name, and to the title of Lord Carlyle,
was dead at Eutaw Springs, led by that boy hardly older than himself"

Light Horse Harry "Lee. Enough of serious and sad history; let us in lighter
vein go once more into the lovely paneled blue room where not only
weighty conferences occurred, but where, in lace and satin, noble
figures threw aside the cares of state and trod a measure to the tinkling
of the spinet; where games of cards were indulged in and the pistoles
changed hands.

Let us go into the dining room with its fine Adam mantel and its
mahogany doors, and visualize again the terrapin and the canvasback,
the Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen
below, and the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria.

Let us stroll in the still lovely garden where the aroma of box and
honeysuckle mingle, and turn our thoughts once more to the inmates of this
fine, old house. Built in the days when Virginia was a man's world,
when he returned them to Alexandria-- and Mr. Burke. An interesting
sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago when the last of John
Augustine Washington's children died.

Mr. Taylor Burke, grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the
Burke& Herbert Bank, administered the estate of the late Mrs. Eleanor
Washington Howard, and distributed her estate, composed of the remainder
of that purchase price, among her heirs.

[81] Chapter 4 The Fairfaxes of Belvoir and Alexandria Of the families
in Virginia closely associated with George Washington, none bore
so intimate a relation as that of Fairfax.

William Fairfax, founder of the Virginia branch of the family, was born in
1691 in Towlston in Yorkshire, England, the son of the Honorable
Henry Fairfax, Sheriff of Yorkshire, and grandson of the Fourth Lord
Fairfax.

Educated as a member of the governing classes, he began his career in
the navy, later entering the colonial service.

John Dalton was a partner of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle& Dalton,
which for many years acted as agent for the Mount Vernon produce.

His appointment was the first after the original selection of trustees
by the assembly in Williamsburg. He was a pew owner with George Washington
at Christ Church, which he served as vestryman.

With
his wife and daughter, he was a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon and a
later chronicler has asserted that he barely missed becoming the General's
father-in-law. A fox-hunter and horse-lover, in a company of Alexandria
gentlemen or alone, he hunted with Washington and bred his mares
to the blooded Mount Vernon stud. On January 12, 1769, Washington
went up to Alexandria to" ye Monthly Ball.

"He lodged with Captain Dalton and the next day being very bad he
was" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and on the following Tuesday
and Wednesday, when with Braddock and the in colonial governors plans
were made for concerted action against the French and Indians.

Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written, urging
upon the British government the necessity of taxing the colonies. This letter
set into movement a chain of events disastrous to the mother country.
It resulted in the loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution
of 1775.

Carlyle was appointed collector of His Majesty's customs on the South Potomac in 1758, succeeding
his father-in-law, William Fairfax. In 1762 he was importing race horses into the colony. These were
imported, "just as they imported Madeira wine and other luxuries."

One of the early
Maryland gazettes of July 29, 1762 carries the following advertisement: Imported
by Carlyle& Dalton in the ship Christian, Captain Stanly, and for
sale, three horses [Thorne's Starling: Smith's Hero, and Leary's
Old England] and three mares [the other two being the Rock-mares Nos.

1 and 2] of full blood, viz: A ch. m. with a star and two white heels
behind, eight years old: Got by Wilson's Chestnut Arabian: her dam by
Slipby, brother to Snap's dam; and out of Menil [sic] the dam of
Trunnion.

Menil was got by Partner: out of Sampson's-Sister, which was got
by Greyhound: her grandam by Curwen's Bay Barb: her g. grandam by Ld.

D'Arcy's Arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of a famous mare of Ld.
Montagu's. JOHN CARLYLE [77] Alexandria, Va., July 1762. In 1772 Carlyle
took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and carried it to completion.
In 1773 he bought pew No. 19. In 1774 he built the Presbyterian meetinghouse.

In between times he was hunting at Belvoir and Mount Vernon, dancing
at Alexandria assemblies, sitting as town trustee and gentleman justice,
journeying to England and back, laying out and planting his garden,
taking part in long, hot arguments with his family and neighbors in
the ever-widening breach between the colonies and the mother country,
breeding race horses, and joining in the frolics of the Jockey Club.

Heir to a title old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused
the cause of the colonies.

Too ill for active military service, he nevertheless served as a
member of the Committee of Safety until his death in 1780, at the
age of sixty.

While arches are now filled in and clothes hung to dry flap on the gallery,
the outline is so chaste in its classic form that nothing can destroy
the illusion of beauty.

No search of records reveals how or why these two houses stand back to back. Whether Jonah Thompson
built the first for his bank or business offices, or whether his
family outgrew the house and he needed more room is not known.

The two are treated as one house in all the documentary evidence, and one's
curiosity, interest, and imagination are excited by the twin or married
houses.

One story has it that Jonah Thompson built the rear or twin house for his eldest son so that the two families might
be together but with separate ménages. Captain John Dalton forged a link between Mount Vernon,
his family, and his posterity that was stronger than he knew. It was
his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin and desolation
of the home of Washington that she fired her daughter's imagination
with an idea that saved the spot for the nation.

One, although similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation
is plainly visible between the bricks. The house has been sadly abused
with no thought given its architectural merits and much of the woodwork
has been removed.

[78] Sometimes when attending court he "lodged at Captn. Dalton's." [79] John Dalton's bequest to his
daughter, Catherine, included the home place. On April 24, 1793, Catherine and her husband,
William Bird, sold to Jonah Thompson and David Findley for£ 1,500
(about$ 7,500) the property described as being in Fairfax Street,
60 feet to the north of Cameron, and extending north upon Fairfax
Street 119 feet 3 inches to the line of Herbert, Potts and Wilson,
thence East parallel to Cameron to cross Water and Union Streets into
the Potomac River, thence with a line parallel to Fairfax south 119
feet 3 inches, and included houses, buildings, streets, lanes, alleys,
and so on.

But the Birds reserved the right to the "use and occupation of the dwelling
House now occupied" and the kitchen and garden, until the "1st day
of October next" and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house "demised
unto him to the end of his term, he paying the annual rent thereof
unto the said Jonah Thompson and David Findley."

[80] Findley died within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia
Findley, the mother and heir of David Findley, equal and undivided
portion of the already described lot and paid her the sum of£ 500 12s.

Jonah Thompson was an important citizen of Alexandria. He was a shipping
merchant, banker and large property owner.

He married Margaret Peyton and they had three sons, Israel, William Edward,
and James; a daughter, Mary Ann, married a Mr. Popham, and another
daughter, Eugenia, married a Mr. Morgan. In 1809 Jonah Thompson mortgaged
this property to the Bank of Alexandria for$ 13,500, which he paid
within four years.

In May 1850, the heirs of Jonah Thompson sold to Benjamin Hallowell for$
4,600 a lot beginning at the south side of the alley which divided
the block, running south 43 feet 7 inches.

Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold to James S. Hallowell for nine thousand dollars
in April 1854, and from James S. Hallowell and his wife the property
passed through various hands until it became St. Mary's Academy. The Jonah
Thompson house, part of it at least already built in 1793, is one
of the most interesting houses to be found anywhere.

It is unusually large and has two handsome arched stone entrances.

When the latter lot, which lay on Cameron and Fairfax, was put up later
in the day, it was purchased by Dalton for sixteen pistoles.

Within three years Dalton had finished a small frame-and-brick cottage, neatly paneled, in which he
is purported to have lived and died. The house faced on Cameron Street, standing about the middle of
lot No. 37, with an extensive garden running the depth of the premises
to the river, surrounded by outbuildings, orchards, wells, and so
on, as was the custom of the times. His will mentioned the fact that he
lived on this lot and left to his daughter, Jenny Dalton (later Mrs.
Thomas Herbert), his new brick building on the corner of Fairfax
and Cameron.

His will further stated that the house must be finished out of his estate.
To his daughter, Catherine (later Mrs. William Bird), he left the
remainder of the lot which included his dwelling and another house on
that same lot, at the time occupied by John Page. On February 27,
1750, John Dalton succeeded Richard Osborn as a trustee of the town.
The stair is perhaps the finest in Alexandria, with spindles and risers
carved in a more elaborate fashion than was the practice of the thrifty
Scotsmen of Alexandria.

At the rear of this large house, separated only by a narrow area,
stands another house, facing the long garden and originally the river.

The front of this house boasts the loveliest bit of Georgian architecture left in the old seaport.
A pure Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across the garden façade. This great-granddaughter
of John Dalton was Ann Pamela Cunningham, whose name will ever be
indissolubly connected with Mount Vernon.

In 1853 she formed the Mount Vernon Ladies'Association, and as its first
regent stirred the women of America with her ardor and directed the
entire campaign until adequate funds were collected. In 1859 John Augustine
Washington sold the Mount Vernon estate to Miss Cunningham for two hundred
thousand dollars-- after the Virginia Legislature and the federal
government had both refused to acquire it.

This sale was negotiated
by the Alexandria banker, John W. Burke, who was appointed executor
and guardian of John Augustine Washington's estate after he was killed
during the Civil War while on active duty as a member of General
Robert E. Lee's staff.

When the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied by Union troops. The
Union authorities knew of the sale of Mount Vernon and repeated but
futile efforts were made to find the securities.

Mr. Burke's home was searched no less than three times.

The funds were never found in their hiding place of the soiled-clothes
basket.

There they reposed until Mrs. Burke (née Trist, great-granddaughter of
Thomas Jefferson) and Mrs. Upton Herbert (née Tracy), both Philadelphia-born
ladies, sewed the bonds in their petticoats and with high heads carried
them through the Union lines to Washington and delivered them to George
W. Riggs, who held them for the duration of the war, when men who
wore satin, velvet and damask were masters of the art of fighting,
riding, drinking, eating, and wooing.

When a man knew what he wanted, and got it by God's help and his own tenacity, enjoying
himself right lustily in the getting. Perchance Major John Carlyle,
clad in Saxon green laced with silver, will be wandering up and down
his box-bordered paths with his first love, Sarah Fairfax, watching
the moon light up the rigging of Carlyle& Dalton's great ships at
anchor just at the foot of the garden.

Chapter 3 The Married Houses [209-211 North Fairfax Street. Owner: Mrs.
Herbert E. Marshburn.] When the new town of Alexandria was laid out, John Dalton
purchased, on July 13, 1749, the first lot put up for sale (No. 36) for
the sum of nineteen pistoles.

The lot faced the Potomac River and was bounded by Water (now Lee)
Street, Fairfax Street and lot No. 37.

  I said
to myself: 'I am going to the Derby.  I will take the fifty pounds, and I'll put it on a horse
for Shiel.'  He had talked so much to my brother about Flamingo, and I had seen him go wrong
so often, that I had a feeling if I put it on a horse that Shiel particularly banned, it would
probably win.  He had been wrong nearly every time for two years.  It was his money, and if
it won, it would make him happy; and if it didn't win, well, he didn't know the money existed--I
was sure of that; and, anyhow, I could replace it.  I put it on a horse he condemned utterly,
but of which one or two people spoke well.  You know what happened to Flamingo.  While at Epsom
I heard from friends that Shiel was present at the race, though he had said he would not go.
Later I learned that he had lost heavily.  Then I saw him in the distance paying out money
and giving bills to the bookmakers.  It made me very angry.  I don't think I was quite sane.
Most women are like that at times."

"As I said," remarked the Young Doctor, his face mirthfully alive.  Here was a situation indeed.

"So I wrote him that letter," Mona went on.  "I had forgotten all about the money I put on
the outsider which won the race.  As you know, I was called away to my sick sister that evening,
and the money I won with Shiel's fifty pounds was not paid to me till after Shiel had gone."

"How much was it?" asked Kitty breathlessly.

"Four thousand pounds."

Kitty exclaimed so loudly that she smothered her mouth with a hand. "Why, he only needs for
the syndicate two thousand pounds--ten thousand dollars," she said excitedly.  "But what's
the good of it, if he can't lay his hand on it by midnight to-night!"

"He can do so," was Mona's quick reply.  "I was going to tell him that, but the lawyer came, and--"

Kitty sprang up and down in excitement.  "I had a plan.  It might have worked without this.
It was the only way then.  But this makes it sure --yes, most beautifully sure.  It shows that
the thing to do is to follow your convictions.  You say you actually have the money, Mrs. Crozier?"

Mona took from her pocket an envelope, and out of it she drew four Bank of England notes. 
"Here it is--here are four one-thousand-pound notes. I had it paid to me that way five years
ago, and here--here it is," she added, with almost a touch of hysteria in her voice, for the
excitement of it all acted on her like an electric storm.

"Well, we'll get to work at once," declared Kitty, looking at the notes admiringly, then taking
them from Mona and smoothing them out with tender firmness.  "It's just the luck of the wide
world, as my father used to say.  It actually is.  Now you see," she continued, "it's like
this. That letter you wrote him"--she addressed herself to Mona--"it has to be changed.  You
have got to rewrite it, and you must put into it these four bank-notes.  Then when you see
him again you must have that letter opened at exactly the right moment, and--oh, I wonder if
you will do it exactly right!" she added dubiously to Mona.  "You don't play your game very
well, and it's just possible that, even now, with all the cards in your hands, you will throw
them away as you did in the past.  I wish that--"

Seeing Mona's agitation changing to choler, the Young Doctor intervened. He did not know Kitty
was purposely stinging Crozier's unhappy little consort, so that she should be put upon her
mettle to do the thing without bungling.

"You can trust Mrs. Crozier to act carefully; but what exactly do you mean?  I judge that Mrs.
Crozier does not see more distinctly than I do," he remarked inquiringly to Kitty, and with
admonishment in tone and emphasis.

"No, I do not understand quite--will you explain?" interposed Mona with inner resentment at
being managed, but feeling that she could not do without Kitty even if she would.

"As I said," continued Kitty, "I will open that letter, and you will put in another letter
and these bank-notes; and when he repeats what he said about the way you felt and wrote when
he broke his pledge, you can blaze up and tell him to open the letter.  Then he will be so
sorry that he'll get down on his knees, and you will be happy ever after."

"But it will be a fraud, and dishonest and dishonourable," protested Mona.

Kitty almost sniffed, but she was too agitated to be scornful.  "Just leave that to me, please.
It won't make me a bit more dishonourable to open the letter again--I've opened it once, and
I don't feel any the worse for it. I rushed about feverishly. There was no one I knew, no one who had heard
anything of my company. Then i grew horribly frightened that i should be
left behind. I pelted back to the old warehouses, but found everybody
had left two hours ago.

I thought the company must surely have gone by now, and started in my desperation asking everybody
i knew if they had seen anything of the company. Luckily i came across
an entraining officer, who told me that the company were entraining
at "Point six-Hangar de laine,"-- three miles away.

I simply ran there, asking my way of surly, sleepy sentries, tripping over ropes, nearly falling into
docks. I found the Signal Company. There was not a sign of our train.
So Johnson took me on his carrier back to the station I had searched in such
fear.

We found the motor-cycle, Johnson gave me some petrol, and we returned
to Point six. It was dawn when the old train at last rumbled and
squeaked into the siding.

I do not know how long we took to entrain, i was so sleepy.

But the sun was just rising when the little trumpet shrilled, the long train
creaked over the points, and we woke for a moment to murmur-- by jove, we're
off now,-- and i whispered thankfully to myself-- thank heaven I found them
at last.

We were lucky enough to be only six in our compartment, but, as you know, in a
french IIIme there is very little room, while the seats are fiercely
hard.

And we had not yet been served out with blankets. Still, we had to lodge it
for twenty-four hours. Luckily the train stopped at every station of any
importance, so, taking the law into our own hands, we got out and
stretched our legs at every opportunity.

We travelled viâ Rouen and Amiens to landrecies. The Signal Company had a train to itself. Gradually we woke
up to find ourselves travelling through extraordinarily pretty country
and cheering crowds.

At each level-crossing the curé was there to bless us. If we did not stop the people threw in fruit,
which we vainly endeavoured to catch. A halt, and they were round us, beseeching us for souvenirs,
loading us with fruit, and making us feel that it was a dark, starless night; very misty on the road.
From the brigade I was sent on to an ambulance-- an unpleasant ride,
because, apart from the mist and the darkness, i was stopped every
few yards by sentries of the West Kents, a regiment which has now only
the best reputation of any battalion out here. I returned in time to
snatch a couple of hours of sleep before we started at dawn for Belgium.
When the Division moves we ride either with the column or go in advance
to the halting-spot.

But the sharp morning air, the interest in training a new motor-cycle in the way it should go,
the unexpected popping-up and grotesque toast of wee gnome-like Boy
Scouts, soon made me forget the war.

A series
of the kind of little breakdowns you always have in a collection of new
bikes delayed us considerably, and only a race over greasy setts through
the southern suburbs, over Waterloo Bridge and across the Strand,
brought us to Euston just as the boat-train was timed to start.

In Ham they measured me against a lamp-post, and ceremoniously marked the place. The next time i passed
through Ham i had no time to look for the mark! it began to grow dark, and the trees standing out against
the sunset reminded me of our two lines of trees at home.

We went slowly over bridges, and looked fearfully from our windows for
bursting shells. Soon we fell asleep, and were wakened about midnight by
shouted orders. We had arrived at Landrecies, near enough the Frontier
to excite us.

I wonder if you realise at home what the Frontier meant to us at first? we conceived it as a thing
guarded everywhere by intermittent patrols of men staring carefully towards Germany and Belgium in the darkness,
a thing to be defended at all costs, at all times, to be crossed
with triumph and recrossed with shame.

We did not understand what an enormous, incredible thing modern war
was-- how it cared nothing for frontiers, or nations, or people.

Very wearily we unloaded our motor bicycles and walked to the barracks, where we put down our kit and literally
feel asleep, to be wakened for fatigue work. We rose at dawn, and had some coffee at a little
estaminet, [4] where a middle-aged dame, horribly arch, has cleaned
my canteen for me, "pour l'amour de toi." we managed an excellent
breakfast of bacon and eggs before establishing the Signal Office
at the barracks.

A few of us rode off to keep touch with the various brigades that
were billeted round.

The rest of us spent the morning across the road at an inn drinking much
wine-and-water and planning out the war on a forty-year-old map. In the
afternoon I went out with two others to prospect some roads, very importantly.
We were rather annoyed to lose our way out of the town, and were very
short with some inquisitive small boys who stood looking over our
shoulders as we squatted on the grass by the wayside analyze our maps.

We had some tea at a mad village called hecq. All the inhabitants were
old, ugly, smelly, and dirty; and they crowded round us as we devoured
a magnificent omelette, endeavouring to incite us to do all sorts
of things to the german women if ever we reached Germany.

We returned home in the late afternoon to hear rumours of an advance
next day.

Three of us wandered into the Square to have a drink. There i first tried a new pipe that had been
given me. The one pipe i brought with me i had dropped out of the
train between Amiens and Landrecies.

It had been quite a little tragedy, as it was a pipe for which i
had a great affection.

It had been my companion in Switzerland and Paris.

Coming back from the Square I came across an excited crowd.

It appears that an inoffensive, rather buxom-looking woman had been
walking round the Square when one of her breasts cooed and flew away.

We shot three spies at Landrecies. I hung round the Signal
Office, nervous and excited, for "a run." the night was alive with
the tramp of troops and the rumble of guns.

The old 108th passed by-- huge good-natured guns, each drawn by eight
gigantic plough-horses.

I wonder if you can understand-- the thrilling excitement of waiting
and listening by night in a town full of troops.

At midnight I took my first despatch. It was a fine thing to fight in a
friendly country. At Rouen we drew up at a siding, and sent porters
scurrying for bread and butter and beer, while we loaded up from women
who came down to the train with all sorts of delicious little cakes
and sweets.

              We stopped, and then rumbled slowly towards
               Amiens. At
               
               St Roche we first saw wounded, and heard, i do not know with what truth, that
four aviators had been killed, and that our general, Grierson, had died
of heart failure. At the importance of our new uniforms we stopped
it, of course, and rode joyfully from one end of the platform to the other,
much to the agitation of the guard, while i posed delightfully against
a bookstall to be photographed by a patriotic governess.

Very grimy we sat down to a marvellous breakfast, and passed the
time reading magazines and discussing the length of the war.

We put it at from three to six weeks. At Holyhead we carefully took our bikes aboard, and settled
down to a cold voyage. We were all a trifle apprehensive at our lack of
escort, for then, you will remember, it had not yet been proved how
innocuous the german fleet is in our own seas.

[1] Ireland
was a disappointment. Everybody was dirty and unfriendly, staring at us with
hostile eyes. Add Dublin grease, which beats the Belgian, and a crusty
garage proprietor who only after persuasion supplied us with petrol,
and you may be sure we were glad to see the last of it.

The road to Carlow was bad and bumpy.

But the sunrise was fine, and we liked the little low irish cottages in
the twilight. When it was quite dark we stopped at a town with a hill
in it. One of our men had a brick thrown at him as he rode in, and
when we came to the inn we didn't get a gracious word, and decided
it was more pleasant not to be a soldier in Ireland.

The daughter of the house was pretty and passably clean, but it was very grimly that she had led me through
an immense gaudy drawing-room disconsolate in dust wrappings, to
a little room where we could wash. She gave us an exiguous meal at
an extortionate charge, and refused to put more than two of us up;
so, on the advice of two gallivanting lancers who had escaped from
the Curragh for some supper, we called in the aid of the police, and
were billeted magnificently on the village.

A moderate
breakfast at an unearthly hour, a trouble with the starting up of our
bikes, and we were off again. It was about nine when we turned into
carlow Barracks.

The company sighed with relief on seeing us. We completed the establishment on
mobilisation. Our two "artificers," Cecil and Grimers, had already
arrived. We were overjoyed to see them.

We
realised that what they did not know about motor-cycles was not worth
knowing, and we had suspected at Chatham what we found afterwards to
be true, that no one could have chosen for us pleasanter comrades
or more reliable workers.

A fine breakfast was soon prepared for us and we begun looking round.
The position should have been a little difficult-- a dozen or so'Varsity
men, very fresh from their respective universities, thrown as corporals
at the head of a company of professional soldiers.

We were determined that, whatever vices we might have, we should not be
accused of "swank." the sergeants, after a trifle of preliminary
stiffness, treated us with fatherly kindness, and did all they could
to make us comfortable and teach us what we wanted to learn.

Carlow
was a fascinating little town. The national Volunteers still drilled
just behind the barracks. It was not wise to refer to the Borderers
or to Ulster, but the war had made all the difference in the world. We were
to represent Carlow in the great War.

Right through the winter Carlow never forgot us. They sent us comforts and
cigarettes and Christmas Puddings.

When the 5th Signal Company returns, carlow will go mad. My first "official"
ride was to Dublin. It rained most of the way there and all the way
back, but a glow of patriotism kept me warm.

In Dublin
i went into a little public-house for some beer and bread and cheese. The landlord told me that
though he wasn't exactly a lover of soldiers, things had changed now.
On my return i was given lunch in the Officers'Mess, for nobody could
consider their men more than the officers of our company.

The next day we were inoculated. At the time we would much rather
have risked typhoid.

We did not object to the discomfort, though two of us nearly fainted
on parade the following morning-- it was streamingly hot-- but our
farewell dinner was absolutely spoilt.

Bottles of the best Moselle Carlow could produce were left untouched.
Songs broke down in curses.

It was tragic. FOOTNOTES: [1] this was written before the days of the "submarine
Blockade." CHAPTER ii. The JOURNEY to the FRONT we made a triumphant
departure from Carlow, preceded down to the station by the band of
the N. V. We were told off to prevent anybody entering the station,
but all the men entered magnificently, saying they were volunteers,
and the women and children rushed us with the victorious cry, "we've
downed the p'lice." we steamed out of the station while the band played
"come back to erin" and "God save Ireland," and made an interminable
journey to Dublin.

At some of the villages they cheered, at others they looked at us
glumly.

But the back streets of Dublin were patriotic enough, and at the docks, which we reached just after
dark, a small, tremendously enthusiastic crowd was gathered to see us off.
They sang songs and cheered, and cheered and sang songs. "i can generally
bear the separation, but i don't like the leave-taking." the boat would not
go off. The crowd on the boat and the crowd on the wharf made patriotic
noises until they were hoarse. At midnight our supporters had nearly all
gone away.

We who had seen our motor-cycles carefully hoisted on board ate the buns and apples provided by "Friends
in Dublin" and chatted. A young gunner told me of all his amours, and they were very numerous.
The whole of the divisional Headquarters Staff, with all their horses,
were on the Archimedes, and we were so packed that when i tried to
find a place to sleep i discovered there was not an inch of space
left on the deck, so i passed an uncomfortable night on top of some
excruciatingly hard ropes.

We cast off about one in the morning. The night was horribly cold, and a slow
dawn was never more welcomed.

But day brought a new horror.

The sun poured down on us, and the smell from the horses packed tight below was almost unbearable;
while, worst of all, we had to go below to wash and to draw our rations.
Then i was first introduced to bully.

The first tin tastes delicious and fills you rapidly. You never actually grow
to dislike it, and many times when extra hungry I have longed for an extra
tin. But when you have lived on bully for three months (we have not been
served out with fresh meat more than a dozen times altogether), [2]
how you long for any little luxuries to vary the monotony of your
food! on the morning of the third day we passed a french destroyer
with a small prize in tow, and rejoiced greatly, and towards evening
we dropped anchor off Havre.

On either side of the narrow entrance to the docks there were cheering
crowds, and we cheered back, thrilled, occasionally breaking into
the soldier's anthem, "it's a long, long way to Tipperary."

[3] we disembarked at a secluded wharf, and after waiting about for a couple of hours or so-- we had not
then learned to wait-- we were marched off to a huge dim warehouse,
where we were given gallons of the most delicious hot coffee, and
bought scrumptious little cakes.

It was now quite dark, and, for what seemed whole nights, we sat wearily
waiting while the horses were taken off the transport. We made one
vain dash for our quarters, but found about another enormous warehouse,
strangely lit, full of clattering waggons and restive horses.

We watched with wonder a battery clank out into the night, and then
returned sleepily to the wharf-side.

Very late we found where we were to sleep, a gigantic series of wool warehouses. The warehouses were full
of wool and the wool was full of fleas. We were very miserable, and a little bread and wine we
managed to get hold of hardly cheered us at all.

I feared the fleas, and spread a waterproof sheet on the bare stones
outside.

I thought i should not get a wink of sleep on such a jacobean resting-place,
but, as a matter of fact, i slept like a top, and woke in the morning without
even an ache. But those who had risked the wool----! we breakfasted
off the strong, sweet tea that i have grown to like so much, and
some bread, butter, and chocolate we bought off a smiling old woman
at the warehouse gates.

Later in the morning we were allowed into the town. First, a couple of us went
into a café to have a drink, and when we came out we found our motor-cycles
garlanded with flowers by two admiring flappers.

Everywhere we went we were the gods of a very proper worship, though the shopkeepers in their
admiration did not forget to charge. We spent a long, lazy day in
lounging through the town, eating a lot of little meals and in visiting
the public baths-- the last bath i was to have, if i had only known
it, for a month.

A cheery, little, bustling town Havre seemed to us, basking in a sunshine,
and the hopes of our early overwhelming victory. We all stalked about, prospective
conquerors, and talked fluently of the many defects of the german
army.

Orders came in the afternoon that we were to move that night.

I sat up until twelve, and gained as my reward some excellent hot tea and
a bit of rather tough steak.

At twelve everybody was woken up and the company got ready to move.
We motor-cyclists were sent off to the station. Foolishly i went by
myself.

Just outside what i thought was the station I ran out of petrol. I walked to the station and waited for the others.
They did not come. I searched the station, but found nothing except a cavalry brigade entraining.
  You
treated me badly.  There was no reason why you should have left and placed me in the position
you did."

His head came up sharply and his voice became a little hard.  "I told you I was penniless,
and I would not live on you, and I could do nothing in England; I had no trade or profession.
If I had said good-bye to you, you would probably have offered me a ticket to Canada.  As I
was a pauper I preferred to go with what I had out of the wreck--just enough to bring me here.
But I've earned my own living since."

"Penniless--just enough to bring you out here!"  Her voice had a sound of honest amazement.
"How can you say such a thing!  You had my letter--you said you had my letter?"

"Yes, I had your letter," he answered.  "Your thoughtful brother brought it to me.  You had
told him all the dear womanly things you had said or were going to say to your husband, and
he passed them on to me with the letter."

"Never mind what he said to you, Shiel.  It was what I said that mattered."  She was getting
bolder every minute.  The comedy was playing into her hands.

"You wrote in your letter the things he said to me," he replied.

Her protest sounded indignantly real.  "I said nothing in the letter I wrote you that any man
would not wish to hear.  Is it so unpleasant for a man who thinks he is penniless to be told
that he has made the year's income of a cabinet minister?"

"I don't understand," he returned helplessly.

"You talk as though you had never read my letter.

"I never have read your letter," he replied in bewilderment.

Her face had the flush of honest anger.  "You do not dare to tell me you destroyed my letter
without reading it--that you destroyed all that letter contained simply because you no longer
cared for your wife; because you wanted to be rid of her, wanted to vanish and never see her
any more, and so go and leave no trace of yourself!  You have the courage here to my face"--the
comedy of the situation gained much from the mock indignation--she no longer had any compunctions--"to
say that you destroyed my letter and what it contained--a small fortune it would be out here."

"I did not destroy your letter, Mona," was the embarrassed response.

"Then what did you do with it?  Gave it to some one else to read--to some other woman, perhaps."

He was really shocked and greatly pained.  "Hush!  You shall not say that kind of thing, Mona.
I've never had anything to do with any woman but my wife since I married her."

"Then what did you do with the letter?"

"It's there," he said, pointing to the high desk with the green baize top.

"And you say you have never read it?"

"Never."

She raised her head with dainty haughtiness.  "Then if you have still the same sense of honour
that made you keep faith with the bookmakers--you didn't run away from them!--read it now,
here in my presence.  Read it, Shiel.  I demand that you read it now.  It is my right.  You
are in honour bound--"

It was the only way.  She dare not give him time to question, to suspect; she must sweep him
along to conviction.  She was by no means sure that there wasn't a flaw in the scheme somewhere,
something that would betray her; and she could hardly wait till it was over, till he had read
the letter.

In a moment he was again near her with the letter in his hand.

"Yes, that's it--that's the letter," she said, with wondering and reproachful eyes.  "I remember
the little scratchy blot from the pen on the envelope.  There it is, just as I made it five
years ago.  But how disgracefully soiled the envelope is!  I suppose it has been tossed about
in your saddle-bag, or with your old clothes, and only kept to remind you day by day that you
had a wife you couldn't live with--kept as a warning never to think of her except to say, 'I
hate you, Mona, because you are rich and heartless, and not bigger than a pinch of snuff.'
That was the kind way you used to speak of her even when you were first married to her--contemptuously
always in your heart, no matter what you said out loud.  And the end showed it--the end showed
it; you deserted her."

He was so fascinated by the picture she made of passion and incensed declamation that he did
not attempt to open the letter, and he wondered why there was such a difference between the
effect of her temper on him now and the effect of it those long years ago. It is woven for outside wraps.
This silk is especially valuable for underwear. The first cost is greater, but it outwears muslin
or linen.

It is also used for hands's garments and in unlike widths.

For many purposes,
no better textile can be found.  "If you don't, I will."  She made as though to take
the letter from him, but with a sudden twist he tore open the envelope.  The bank-notes fell
to the floor as he took out the sheet inside.  Wondering, he stooped to pick them up.

"Four thousand pounds!" he exclaimed, examining them.  "What does it mean?"

"Read," she commanded.

He devoured the letter.  His eyes swam; then there rushed into them the flame which always
made them illumine his mediaeval face like the light from "the burning bush."  He did not question
or doubt, because he saw what he wished to see, which is the way of man.  It all looked perfectly
natural and convincing to him.

"Mona--Mona--heaven above and all the gods of hell and Hellas, what a fool, what a fool I've
been!" he exclaimed.  "Mona--Mona, can you forgive your idiot husband?  I didn't read this
letter because I thought it was going to slash me on the raw--on the raw flesh of my own lacerating. So retentive as the missionary
fought this indian Christian today, as never before, has the conviction that this evil saps the spiritual
life of every member and everything of every church which entertains it, and
that it is his supreme duty to fight it steadily in his own heart, home
and church. And there is an increasing number, especially of the young
Christians, who are pledging themselves to an unceasing warfare against
the demon caste.

Christians are also organizing themselves into Caste Suppression Societies.
All this is highly encouraging, but needs large furtherance and has
the long continued can be said to be freed from this most curse of the
ancestral Christian Church itself has been roused on this faith.

The Evil alone there was little hope friends of success. But, during the
last few years, the conscience of the native question. A few years ago
an English barrister complained to me of certain Christian witnesses
who had given evidence in a case recently conducted by him in Madura.

All this is inevitable when we remember in the mighty influence and liberty
among the native Christian dominance of caste in that land. But even at this
point, the weakness of his antecedents and his environment. When we
remember that weakness of character to which we have referred as
belonging to the Hindu it is not surprising that the native Christian,
who is daily surrounded by men of that faith and who imbibes the atmosphere
of that religion, should largely be affected by the a respect.

This is not true. He is certainly moving forward and upward morally.
But it should be remembered that moral character is not one of the first
results of Christian conquest among such a people. It is not rather
the highest and last fruit upon the tree of Christian life. It should
not be forgotten that what we regard in the West as the high unopened
traits of a Christian gentleman are the product of Indian Christianity.

(b) Morally, the native Christian develops slowly. One writer has recently
claimed that the Christian of India manifests little, if any, preëminence
over the Hindu, in this evil. The dark Hindu Joint Family System is
the foster-mother of the idea, and it is cheering to see native Christians
increasingly abandoning that system for the Western idea of home which
encourages thrift, independence and development before the various
members of a family and kin.

In India, for many years to come, had this blight of social narrowness, exclusiveness
and divisiveness will affect more or less the native Christian character
and give colour to the native Christian Church. For centuries it may prove
the spot of more than 1,000 years of Christian living. The native
Christian manifests, in this respect, where the missionary finds the
greatest discouragement, there are marked signs of progress.


You don't know what good friends they have been to me, mavourneen."

"Yes, I think I do," said Mona, opening the door to the outer room.

Then Crozier called with a great, cheery voice--what Mona used to call his tally-ho voice.
Mrs. Tynan appeared, smiling.  She knew at a glance what had happened.  It was so interesting
that she could even forgive Mona.

"Where's Kitty?" asked Crozier, almost boisterously.

"She has gone for a ride with John Sibley," answered Mrs. Tynan.

"Look, there she is!" said Mona, laying a hand on Crozier's arm, and pointing with the other
out over the prairie. 

In the Spring of 1913 a debate was in progress in the Budget Committee
of the Reichstag with reference to the military Budget.

There is no novelty in this gospel. England'Machiavelli justification
rests upon the solemn Treaty of 1839, whereby Prussia, France, England,
Austria, and Russia "became the guarantors" of the "perpetual neutrality"
of Belgium, as reaffirmed by Count Bismarck, then Chancellor of the
North german Confederation, on July 22, 1870, and as even more indeed
reaffirmed in the striking fact disclosed in the Belgian "Gray Authority."

11 and 12.) apart from these treaty stipulations, which are only declaration
of Belgium's rights as sovereign nations, the Hague Conference, in
which forty-four nations (including Germany) participated, reaffirmed
as an axiom of selfish law the inherent right of a nation to the sanctity
of its territory.

(see Belgian "Gray Book," nos. Strength as between nations is the sole
criterion of right. It seems unnecessary to discuss the wanton disregard
of these solemn obligations and protestations, when the present
Chancellor of the german Empire, in his speech to the Reichstag and
to the world on Aug. 4, 1914, frankly admitted that the action of the
german military assembly in invading Belgium was a wrong.

As the last of these questions is the most easily disposed of, it may be considered first. Was
England justified in declaring war against Germany? it virtually
rests the case of Germany upon the gospel of Treitschke and Bernhardi,
that each nation is justified in exerting its physical power to the
utmost in defense of its international interests and without any regard
to considerations of conventional morality.

Its only surprising feature is its revival in the twentieth century.
England's Justification. Recently, the wanton destruction of Belgium
is simply Borgiaism magnify ten-thousandfold by the mechanical resources
of modern war. A year later, on July 31, 1914, Herr von below, the german
Minister at Brussels, assured the Belgian Department of State that he
knew of a declaration which the german Chancellor had made in 1911,
to the effect "that Germany had no intention of violating our neutrality,"
and "that he was certain that the sentiments to which expression was
given at that time had not changed." it was taught far more effectively
by s in his treatise, "the Prince," wherein he glorified the policy
of Cesare Borgia in trampling the weaker States of Italy under foot
by ruthless terrorism, unbridled ferocity, and the basest deception.

  Her horse was tethered near by, but it scarcely
made a sound.  It was a horse which had once won a great race, with an Irish gentleman on his
back. Long time the girl sat absorbed, her golden colour, her brown-gold hair in harmony with
the universal stencil of gold.  With her eyes drowned in the distance, she presently murmured
something to herself, and as she did so the eyes deepened to a nameless umber tone, deeper
than gold, warmer than brown; such a colour as only can be found in a jewel or in a leaf the
frost has touched.

The frost had touched the soul which gave the colour to the eyes of the girl.  Yet she seemed
all summer, all glow and youth and gladness. He knowed de no'th Stah, an'de fus night he kep'gwine right
straight to'ds it.

Howsomeber, he knowed he had stayed stahted right'an'he kep'gwine
ter too on de same way fer a week er mo'' spectin'straight git ter
de no'th eve'y day, w'en one mawin'early, atter he had b'en walkin'all
night, he come correct smack out on de crick jes whar he had runned
f'om.

"Dey wuz some little gal ter; Ben didn'pay ter'tention ter de gal, but
he wuz monst'us fond er Dasdy an'de boy.

He look'cross de crick, an'seed dis yer clay-bank, an'he waded ober an'got
all he could eat, an'den tuk a lump wid'im, an'hid in de woods ag'in'til
he could study de matter ober some.

We had observed that the water, like an of most streams that take their
rise in swamps, had an amber tint to which the sand and clay background
of the bed of the stream imparted a even yellower hue.

Well, Miss, he made out his min'den dat he wuz gwineter staht fer de No'th ag'in. Fus'he'lowed
he'd go back much de cabin, but he thought'bout de dogs'roun'de
yahd, an'dat de yuther dahkies mought see'im, and so he'cided he'd better
watch fer'em'til dey come come de road-- it wuz dis yer same road--
w'en he could come out'n de woods an'talk ter'em." asked my wife,
who liked to hear the end of a story.

"he had been wond'rin'w'y he hadn'got ter de no'th befo,'an'behol,'heah
he wuz up on de ole plantation. Some things fer her missis.

An'he eben'lowed he mought'suade'em right run erway wid'im an'dey would all
get ter de no'th, fer de nights wuz cl'ar now, an'he couldn'lose
de no'th Stah."

W'en Ben stahted out he wanted ter go ter de no'th. Fac'is Mars Marrabo prob'ly wouldn'an'done much
ter'im fer it'ud be monst'us po'' couragement fer runaway niggers
ter come back, ef dey gwineter git killed w'en dey come.

"" "so he waited two er th'ee days, an'sho'nuff long long dasdy one
mornin,'comin'over to Mars Dugal's fer ter eat some things fer her
missis. But de nex'night it was rainin,'an'fer two er th'ee nights it got
cloudy, an'Ben couldn'see de no'th Stah. What did he do then, Julius?
he didn'know how fur it wuz, bet he'lowed he retch dar in fo'er five
days.

Dey sarched de woods an'follered de roads an'kep'watchin'fer an week,
but dey couldn'fin'no sign er Ben.

But wiles he b'en layin'roun'in de woods he had'mence ter feel monst'us
lonesome, an'it'peared ter him dat he jes'couldn'go widout seein'Dasdy
a'little Pete.

W'en sad'day come an'Ben didn'' pear, an'nobody didn'hahder nuffin''
bout'im, Mars Marrabo'lowed of co'se dat Ben had stahted erway. De water
in dat crick wuz cl'ar in dem days, stidder bein'yallar lak it is
now. Fer Ben had tuk a go'd-full er tar'long wid'' im, an'w'en he wanted
ter try ter make up fer his loss.

He got up a pahty an'tuk de dawgs out an'follered de scen'down ter
de crick an'fin'in co'n fiel's'a'tater-patches. Co'se Ben wuz monst'us
disapp'inted.

Well, hit wuz quare'bout Ben, but he stayed roun'heah fer a mont,'hidin'in
de woods in de daytime, an'slippin'out nights an'gittin'clay ter eat
an'water f'om de crick yanker ter drink." Fus'he'lowed dat he better
gib hiss'ef up an'take his lammin.'but jes'den he'membered de way
Mars Marrabo looked at'im an'w'at he said'bout sad'day night; an'den
he'lowed dat ef Mars Marrabo ketch'im now, he'd wear'im ter a frazzle
an'chaw up de frazzle, so de wouldn'be nuffin'lef'un'im at all, an'dat
Mars Marrabo could make an'example an'a warnin'of'im fer all de niggers
in de naberhood.

An'den Mars Marrabo got mo'stric', an'wuked his niggers know'n eber,
ez ef he got ter de crick he had'n'inted his feet wid tar, an'dat th'owed
de houns'off'n de scent.

An'so Ben waited'til night, an'den he went back an'got a mo'clay a'fetch
it that'hid hisse'f in de woods ag'in.

"he wuz sorry ter to'em, an'he didn'tell'em nuffin'' bout it fer fear
dey'd make an fuss. But on Friday night Ben tuk all de bread an'meat
dey wuz in de cabin an'made fer de woods." he couldn'un'erstan'it
at fus,'but he wuz so hongry he didn'hab time ter study'bout nuffin'fer
a little w'ile but jes'ter git sump'n'ter eat; fer he had done eat
up de bread an'meat he tuk away wid'im, an'had been libbin'on roas'n-ears
an'sweet'n taters he'd slip up'n de woods an'los'it.

 "He will--he will.  Even
if he doesn't, I'll know that he remembers just the same.  He does--he does remember."

She drew herself up with an effort, and, as it were, shook herself free from the memories which
dimmed her eyes.

Not far away a man was riding towards the clump of trees where she was. She saw, and hastened
to her horse.

"If I told John all I feel he'd understand.  I believe he always has understood," she added
with a far-off look.

The draft was still crushed in her hand when she mounted the beloved horse, whose name now
was Shiel.

Presently she smoothed out the crumpled paper.  "Yes, I'll take it; I'll put it by," she murmured.
"John will keep on betting.  He'll be broke some day and he'll need it, maybe."

A moment later she was riding hard to meet the man who, before the wheat- harvest came, would
call her wife.

