My impatience to inhabit the Hermitage not permitting me to wait until the return of fine weather,
the moment my lodging was prepared I hastened to take possession of it, to the great amusement
of the 'Coterie Holbachaque', which publicly predicted I should not be able to support solitude
for three months, and that I should unsuccessfully return to Paris, and live there as they
did.  For my part, having for fifteen years been out of my element, finding myself upon the
eve of returning to it, I paid no attention to their pleasantries.  Since contrary to my inclinations,
I have again entered the world, I have incessantly regretted my dear Charmettes, and the agreeable
life I led there.  I felt a natural inclination to retirement and the country: it was impossible
for me to live happily elsewhere.  At Venice, in the train of public affairs, in the dignity
of a kind of representation, in the pride of projects of advancement; at Paris, in the vortex
of the great world, in the luxury of suppers, in the brilliancy of spectacles, in the rays
of splendor; my groves, rivulets, and solitary walks, constantly presented themselves to my
recollection, interrupted my thought, rendered me melancholy, and made me sigh with desire.
All the labor to which I had subjected myself, every project of ambition which by fits had
animated my ardor, all had for object this happy country retirement, which I now thought near
at hand. Of Jeremiah, then, I will now speak, as a specimen of all those Prophets
whom St. Paul sets before us as examples of faith, and St. James
as examples of patience.

Jeremiah's ministry may be summed up in three words, good hope, labour, disappointment. It was his privilege
to be called to his sacred office from his earliest years. It happens in several ways. 1. Consider the
Bible tells us to be meek, humble, single-hearted, and teachable. Now,
it is plain that humility and teachableness are qualities of mind
necessary for arriving at the truth in any subject, and in religious
matters as well as others.

A little learning is a dangerous thing. When men think they know more than others, they often talk for
the sake of talking, or to show their ability (as they think), their shrewdness and depth; and they speak
lightly of the All-Holy God, to gratify their empty self-conceit and vanity. And often it answers no
purpose to dispute with such persons; for not having been trained up to obey their conscience, to restrain
their passions, and examine their hearts, they will assent to nothing you can say; they will be questioning and
arguing about every thing; they have no common ground with you, and
when they talk of religion they are like blind persons talking of
colours. Consider, in the next place, that those who are trained carefully
according to the precepts of Scripture, gain an elevation, a delicacy,
refinement, and sanctity of mind, which is most necessary for judging fairly
of the truth of Scripture.

If you urge how great a gift it is to be at peace with God, or of the
arduousness and yet desirableness of perfection, or the beauty of saintliness,
or the dangerousness of the world, or the blessedness of self-control, or
the glory of virginity, or the answers which God gives to prayer, or the marvellousness
and almost miraculousness of His providences, or the comfort of religion
in affliction, or the strength given you over your passions in the Most
Holy Sacrament, such persons understand you not at all.

I do not mean to say that such men necessarily reject the word of God, as
if we could dare to conclude that all who do not reject it are therefore
sure to be not covetous, drunkards, extortioners, and the like; for
it is often a man's interest not openly to reject it, though it be
against him; and the bulk of men are inconsistent, and have some even
good feelings left, even amid their sins and vices, which keep them
from going all lengths.

Yet, let not such vain or ignorant reasoners convert you to unbelief
in great matters or little; let them not persuade you, that your faith
is built on the mere teaching of fallible men; do not you be ridiculed
out of your confidence and hope in Christ.

You may, if you will, have an inward witness arising from obedience:
and though you cannot make them see it, you can see it yourselves,
which is the great thing; and it will be quite sufficient, with God's
blessing, to keep you stedfast in the way of life.

Lastly, let me remark how dangerous their state is who are content
to take the truths of the Gospel on trust, without caring whether
or not those truths are realized in their own heart and conduct.

Such men, when assailed by ridicule and sophistry, are likely to fall; they have no root in themselves;
and let them be quite sure, that should they fall away from the faith, it will be a slight thing
at the last day to plead that subtle arguments were used against them, that they were altogether unprepared
and ignorant, and that their seducers prevailed over them by the display
of some little cleverness and human knowledge.

The inward witness to the truth lodged in our hearts is a match for the most learned infidel or sceptic
that ever lived: though, to tell the truth, such men are generally very shallow and weak, as well as
wicked; generally know only a little, pervert what they know, assume false principles, and distort or suppress
facts: but were they as accomplished as the very author of evil, the humblest Christian, armed with sling
and stone, and supported by God's unseen might, is, as far as his own faith is concerned, a match
for them.

Like Samuel, the first prophet, he was of the tribe of Levi, dedicated from his birth to religious services,
and favoured with the constant presence and grace of God. "Before I formed thee... This commission was given
the year after Josiah began his reformation. Jeremiah returned for answer,"
Ah! Lord God! behold, I cannot speak; for I am a child. "He felt
the arduousness of a prophet's office; the firmness and intrepidity
which were required to speak the words of God. God. Now to this objection
it maybe answered, and very satisfactorily," Is it then nothing toward
convincing us of the truth of the Gospel, that those whom we love
best and reverence most believe it?

Is it against reason to think that they are right, who have considered
the matter most deeply? 14. [6] Gal. i. 12. [7] John iv. 29. [8]
Mal. iii. 10. The Prophets were ever ungratefully treated by the Israelites,
they were resisted, their warnings neglected, their good services forgotten.
But there was this difference between the earlier and the later Prophets;
the earlier lived and died in honour among their people,-- in outward
honour; though hated and thwarted by the wicked, they were exalted
to high places, and ruled in the congregation.

Moses, for instance, was in trouble from his people all his life long, but to the end he was their lawgiver
and judge. He is ready, with the Samaritan woman, to say to all around him, "Come, see a man, which
told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ [7]?"

Or, again, in the words which the Samaritans of the same city used to
the woman after conversing with Christ; "Now we believe, not because
of thy saying" (not merely on the authority of friends and relatives),
"for we have heard Him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the
Christ, the Saviour of the world. 2. A man who loves sin does not wish
the Gospel to be true, and therefore is not a fair judge of it; a
mere man of the world, a selfish and covetous man, or a drunkard,
or an extortioner, is, from a sense of interest, against that Bible
which condemns him, and would account that man indeed a messenger
of good tidings of peace who could prove to him that Christ's doctrine
was not from God.

They will laugh, they will scoff, at best they will wonder: any how
what you say is no evidence to them. You cannot convince them, because
you differ from them in first principles; it is not that they start
from the same point as you, and afterwards strike off in some wayward
direction; but their course is altogether distinct, they have no point
in common with you. For such persons then you can only pray; God alone
can bring down pride, self-conceit, an arrogant spirit, a presumptuous
temper; God alone can dissipate prejudice; God alone can overcome
flesh and blood.

Useful
as argument may be for converting a man, in such cases God seldom condescends to employ it. Here,
then, are two very good reasons at first sight, why men who obey the Scripture precepts are more
likely to arrive at religious truth, than those who neglect them; first,
because such men are teachable men; secondly, because they are pure
in heart; such shall see God, whereas the proud provoke His anger,
and the carnal are His abhorrence.

But to proceed. Consider, moreover, that those who try to obey God evidently gain a knowledge of themselves
at least; and this may be shown to be the first and principal step towards knowing
God. Jeremiah comes next to David; I do not say in dignity and privilege,
for it was Elijah who was taken up to heaven, and appeared at the
Transfiguration; nor in inspiration, for to Isaiah one should assign
the higher evangelical gifts; but in typifying Him who came and wept
over Jerusalem, and then was tortured and put to death by those He
wept over.

And hence, when our Lord came, while some thought Him Elijah, and others
John the Baptist, risen from the dead, there were others who thought Him
Jeremiah. I have more understanding than the aged, because I keep
Thy commandments." By obeying the commands of Scripture, we learn that
these commands really come from God; by trying we make proof; by
doing we come to know.

Do we not receive what they tell us in other matters, though we cannot prove the truth of their
information; for instance, in matters of art and science; why then is it
irrational to believe them in religion also?

Have not the wisest and holiest of men been Christians? and have not unbelievers,
on the contrary, been very generally signal instances of pride, discontent,
and profligacy?

Again, are not the principles of unbelief certain to dissolve human society?
and is not this plain fact, candidly considered, enough to show
that unbelief cannot be a right condition of our nature? for who can believe
that we were intended to live in anarchy? If we have no good reason
for believing, at least we have no good reason for disbelieving.

If you ask why we are Christians, we ask in turn, Why should we not be Christians? it will be enough
to remain where we are, till you do what you never can do-- prove to us
for certain, that the Gospel is not Divine; it is enough for us to be on
the side of good men, to be under the feet of the Saints, to'go our way
forth by the footsteps of the flock, and to feed our kids beside
the shepherds'tent [1].'"This would be quite a sufficient answer, had we
nothing else to say; but I will give another, and that in connexion with
the text; I will show you that the most unlearned Christian may have
a very real and substantial argument, an intimate token, of the truth
of the Gospel, quite independent of the authority of his parents and
teachers; nay, that were all the world, even were his teachers, to
tell him that religion was a dream, still he would have a good reason
for believing it true.

This reason, I say, is contained in the text--" "[1] Cant. i. 8. Now how comes this to pass? For
let us suppose a child, under God's blessing, profiting by his teacher's guidance, and trying to do his
duty and please God. He will perceive that there is much in him which ought not to be in him. His
own natural sense of right and wrong tells him that peevishness, sullenness, deceit, and self-will, are
tempers and principles of which he has cause to be ashamed, and he feels that these bad tempers and principles
are in his heart. As he grows older, he will understand this more and
more. Wishing, then, and striving to act up to the law of conscience,
he will yet find that, with his utmost efforts, and after his most
earnest prayers, he surely possesses an evidence perfectly distinct
from the authority of superiors and teachers; like St. Paul, he is
in one way not taught of men," but by the revelation of Jesus Christ
[6].

"Others have but bid him look within, and pray for God's grace to be enabled to know himself; and the
more he understands his own heart, the more are the Gospel doctrines recommended to his own heart, reads
the declarations and promises of the Gospel, are we to be told that he believes in them merely because
he has been bid believe in them?

Do we not see he has besides this a something in his own breast which
bears a confirming testimony to their truth? He reads that the heart
is" deceitful above all things and desperately wicked [4], "and that he inherits
an evil nature from Adam, and that he is still under its power, except
so far as he has been renewed. Here is a mystery; but his own actual
and too bitter experience bears witness to the truth of the declaration;
he feels the mystery of iniquity within him. But in the latter times, the prophets
were not only feared and hated by the enemies of God, but cast out
of the vineyard. As the time approached for the coming of the true
Prophet of the Church, the Son of God, they resembled Him in their
earthly fortunes more and more; and as He was to suffer, so did they.
Moses was a ruler, Jeremiah was an outcast: Samuel was buried in peace,
John the Baptist was beheaded. Of these, Elijah, who lived in the wilderness,
and the hundred prophets whom Obadiah fed by fifty in a cave, are examples
of the wanderers.

And Micaiah, who was appointed the bread of affliction and the water of affliction by an idolatrous
king, is the specimen of those who" had trial of bonds and imprisonment. "Of those who were sawn asunder
and slain with the sword, Isaiah is the chief, who, as tradition goes, was by order of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, sawn
asunder with a wooden saw. And of those who were stoned, none is more
famous than Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada," who was slain between the temple
and the altar [3].

"But of all the persecuted prophets Jeremiah is the most eminent; i. e. we know more of his
history, of his imprisonments, his wanderings, and his afflictions. [2] John iii. 20. [3] Rom.
vii. 15, 18, 22, 23. [4] Jer. xvii. 9. [5] Heb. xii. But, while they still profess to honour, at least
they try to pervert and misinterpret Scripture, and that comes to the same thing. They try to persuade
themselves that Christ will save them, though they continue in sin; or they wish to believe that
future punishment will not last for ever; or they conceive that their
good deeds or habits, few and miserable as they are at best, will make
up for the sins of which they are too conscious. Whereas such men as have
been taught betimes to work with God their Saviour-- in ruling their
hearts, and curbing their sinful passions, and changing their wills--
though they are still sinners, have not within them that treacherous
enemy of the truth which misleads the judgments of irreligious men.

By obeying Scripture, then, in practising humility and teachableness, it
is evident we are at least in the way to arrive at the knowledge
of God.

     
     On the other hand, impatient, proud, self-confident, obstinate men, are generally
     wrong in the opinions they form of persons and things. Prejudice
     and self-conceit blind the eyes and mislead the judgment, whatever be
     the subject inquired into. For instance, how often do men mistake
     the characters and misconstrue the actions of others! how often are they
     deceived in them! how often do the young form acquaintances injurious
     to their comfort and good! how often do men embark in foolish and
ruinous schemes! how often do they squander their money, and destroy their
worldly prospects! And what, I ask, is so frequent a cause of these
many errors as wilfulness and presumption? The same thing happens also in religious
inquiries. When I see a person hasty and violent, harsh and high-minded, careless
of what others feel, and disdainful of what they think,-- when I
see such a one proceeding to inquire into religious subjects, I am
sure beforehand he cannot go right-- he will not be led into all the
truth-- it is contrary to the nature of things and the experience
of the world, that he should find what he is seeking.

I should say the same were he seeking to find out what to believe or do in any other matter not religious,--
but especially in any such important and solemn inquiry; for the
fear of the Lord (humbleness, teachableness, reverence towards Him)
is the very beginning of wisdom, as Solomon tells us; it leads us
to think over things modestly and honestly, to examine patiently,
to bear doubt and uncertainty, to wait perseveringly for an increase
of light, to be slow to speak, and to be deliberate in deciding.

He reads, that" without holiness no man shall see the Lord [5]; "and his own love of what is true and lovely and pure,
approves and embraces the doctrine as coming from God. He reads, that God is angry at sin, and will punish the
sinner, and that it is a hard matter, nay, an impossibility, for us to appease
His wrath. Here, again, is a mystery: but here, too, his conscience anticipates
the mystery, and convicts him; his mouth is stopped. And when he goes
on to read that the Son of God has Himself come into the world in our
flesh, and died upon the Cross for us, does he not, amid the awful
mysteriousness of the doctrine, find those words fulfilled in him which that
gracious Saviour uttered," And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will
draw all men unto Me "? He cannot choose but believe in Him.

He says," O Lord, Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed. "Here then, I say, he still falls short of
what he knows to be right, and what he aims at. Conscience, however, being respected, will become a
more powerful and enlightened guide than before; it will become more refined and hard to please;
and he will understand and perceive more clearly the distance that exists between
his own conduct and thoughts, and perfection.

He will admire and take pleasure in the holy law of God, of which he reads in Scripture; but
he will be humbled withal, as understanding himself to be a continual transgressor against it. Thus
he will learn from experience the doctrine of original sin, before he knows the actual name of it. I
know that in my flesh dwelleth no good thing [3]." The effect of this experience will be to make him take it
for granted, as an elementary truth, that he cannot gain heaven for himself; to make him feel
himself guilty before God; and to feel, moreover, that even were
he admitted into the Divine presence, yet, till his heart be (so to
say) made over again, he cannot perfectly enjoy God.

This, surely, is the state of self-knowledge; these are the convictions
to which every one is brought on, who attempts honestly to obey the
precepts of God. I do not mean that all that I have been saying will
necessarily pass through his mind, and in the same order, or that he
will be conscious of it, or be able to speak of it, but that on the
whole thus he will feel. When, then, even an unlearned person thus
trained-- from his own heart, from the action of his mind upon itself,
from struggles with self, from an attempt to follow those impulses
of his own nature which he feels to be highest and noblest, from a
vivid natural perception (natural, though cherished and strengthened
by prayer, natural, though unfolded and diversified by practice, natural,
though of that new and second nature which God the Holy Ghost gives),
from an innate, though supernatural perception of the great vision
of Truth which is external to him (a perception of it, not indeed
in its fulness, but in glimpses, and by fits and seasons, and in its
persuasive influences, and through a courageous following on after
it, as a man in the dark might follow after some dim and distant light)--
I say, when a person thus trained from his reason.

He is assured that Christ does not speak of Himself, but that His word is from God. And, on the
other hand, the most acute of reasoners and most profound of thinkers, the most instructed in earthly
knowledge, is nothing, except he has also within him the presence of the Spirit of truth. Human
knowledge, though of great power when joined to a pure and humble faith, is of no power when opposed
to it, and, after ail, for the comfort of the individual Christian, it is of little value. May we,
then, all grow in heavenly knowledge, and, with that end, labour to improve what is already given us,
be it more or be it less, knowing that "he that is faithful in little
is faithful also in much," and that "to him that hath, more shall
be given.

He may be taken as a representative of the Prophets; and hence it is that he is an especial type of our Lord
and Saviour. All the Prophets were types of the Great Prophet whose way they were preparing; they tended towards
and spoke of Christ. In their sufferings they foreshadowed His priesthood, and in their teaching His prophetical
office, and in their miracles His royal power. The history of Jeremiah, then, as being drawn out in
Scripture more circumstantially than that of the other Prophets, is the most
exact type of Christ among them; that is, next to David, who, of
course, was the nearest resemblance to Him of all, as a sufferer,
an inspired teacher, and a king."

The Bible, then, seems to say,-- God is not a hard master to require
belief, without affording grounds for believing; only follow your
own sense of right, and you will gain from that very obedience to
your Maker, which natural conscience enjoins, a conviction of the truth and
power of that Redeemer whom a supernatural message has revealed; do
but examine your thoughts and doings; do but attempt what you know
to be God's will, and you will most assuredly be led on into all the
truth: you will recognize the force, meaning, and awful graciousness
of the Gospel Creed; you will bear witness to the truth of one doctrine,
by your own past experience of yourselves; of another, by seeing that
it is suited to your necessity; of a third, by finding it fulfilled
upon your obeying it.

My brethren, it is always reasonable to insist upon these subjects; but it is peculiarly so in times when
a spirit of presumptuous doubting is in many places abroad. As many
of us as live in the world must expect to hear our faith despised, and
our conscientious obedience ridiculed; we must expect to be taunted and
scorned by those who find it much easier to attack another's creed than
to state their own.
  I found the liberty she had so frequently
promised was given me upon no other condition than that of my never enjoying it; and once or
twice when I wished to do this there were so many messages, notes, and alarms relative to my
health, that I perceived that I could have no excuse but being confined to my bed, for not
immediately running to her upon the first intimation.  It was necessary I should submit to
this yoke, and I did it, even more voluntarily than could be expected from so great an enemy
to dependence: the sincere attachment I had to Madam D'Epinay preventing me, in a great measure,
from feeling the inconvenience with which it was accompanied.  She, on her part, filled up,
well or ill, the void which the absence of her usual circle left in her amusements.  This for
her was but a very slender supplement, although preferable to absolute solitude, which she
could not support.  She had the means of doing it much more at her ease after she began with
literature, and at all events to write novels, letters, comedies, tales, and other trash of
the same kind.  But she was not so much amused in writing these as in reading them; and she
never scribbled over two or three pages--at one sitting--without being previously assured of
having, at least, two or three benevolent auditors at the end of so much labor.  I seldom had
the honor of being one of the chosen few except by means of another.  When alone, I was, for
the most part, considered as a cipher in everything; and this not only in the company of Madam
D'Epinay, but in that of M. d'Holbach, and in every place where Grimm gave the 'ton'.  This
nullity was very convenient to me, except in a tete-a-tete, when I knew not what countenance
to put on, not daring to speak of literature, of which it was not for me to say a word; nor
of gallantry, being too timid, and fearing, more than death, the ridiculousness of an old gallant;
besides that, I never had such an idea when in the company of Madam D'Epinay, and that it perhaps
would never have occurred to me, had I passed my whole life with her; not that her person was
in the least disagreeable to me; on the contrary, I loved her perhaps too much as a friend
to do it as a lover.  I felt a pleasure in seeing and speaking to her.  Her conversation, although
agreeable enough in a mixed company,  was uninteresting in private; mine, not more elegant
or entertaining than her own, was no great amusement to her.  Ashamed of being long silent,
I endeavored to enliven our tete-a-tete and, although this frequently fatigued me, I was never
disgusted with it.  I was happy to show her little attentions, and gave her little fraternal
kisses, which seemed not to be more sensual to herself; these were all.  She was very thin,
very pale, and had a bosom which resembled the back of her hand. This defect alone would have
been sufficient to moderate my most ardent desires; my heart never could distinguish a woman
in a person who had it; and besides other causes useless to mention, always made me forget
the sex of this lady.

Having resolved to conform to an assiduity which was necessary, I immediately and voluntarily
entered upon it, and for the first year at least, found it less burthensome than I could have
expected.  Madam d'Epinay, who commonly passed the summer in the country, continued there but
a part of this; whether she was more detained by her affairs in Paris, or that the absence
of Grimm rendered the residence of the Chevrette less agreeable to her, I know not.  I took
the advantage of the intervals of her absence, or when the company with her was numerous, to
enjoy my solitude with my good Theresa and her mother, in such a manner as to taste all its
charms.  Although I had for several years passed been frequently in the country, I seldom had
enjoyed much of its pleasures; and these excursions, always made in company with people who
considered themselves as persons of consequence, and rendered insipid by constraint, served
to increase in me the natural desire I had for rustic pleasures.  The want of these was the
more sensible to me as I had the image of them immediately before my eyes.  I was so tired
of saloons, jets d'eau, groves, parterres, and of more fatiguing persons by whom they were
shown; so exhausted with pamphlets, harpsichords, trios, unravellings of plots, stupid bon
mots, insipid affections, pitiful storytellers, and great suppers; that when I gave a side
glance at a poor simple hawthorn bush, a hedge, a barn, or a meadow; when, in passing through
a hamlet, I scented a good chervil omelette, and heard at a distance the burden of a rustic
song of the Bisquieres; I wished all rouge, furbelows and amber at the d---l, and envying the
dinner of the good housewife, and the wine of her own vineyard, I heartily wished to give a
slap on the chaps to Monsieur le Chef and Monsieur le Maitre, who made me dine at the hour
of supper, and sup when I should have been asleep, but especially to Messieurs the lackeys,
who devoured with their eyes the morsel I put into my mouth, and upon pain of my dying with
thirst, sold me the adulterated wine of their master, ten times dearer than that of a better
quality would have cost me at a public house.

At length I was settled in an agreeable and solitary asylum, at liberty to pass there the remainder
of my days, in that peaceful, equal, and independent life for which I felt myself born.  Before
I relate the effects this situation, so new to me, had upon my heart, it is proper I should
recapitulate its secret affections, that the reader may better follow in their causes the progress
of these new modifications.

I have always considered the day on which I was united to Theresa as that which fixed my moral
existence.  An attachment was necessary for me, since that which should have been sufficient
to my heart had been so cruelly broken.  The thirst after happiness is never extinguished in
the heart of man.  Mamma was advancing into years, and dishonored herself! I had proofs that
she could never more be happy here below; it therefore remained to me to seek my own happiness,
having lost all hopes of partaking of hers.  I was sometimes irresolute, and fluctuated from
one idea to another, and from project to project.  My journey to Venice would have thrown me
into public life, had the man with whom, almost against my inclination, I was connected there
had common sense.  I was easily discouraged, especially in undertakings of length and difficulty.
The ill success of this disgusted me with every other; and, according to my old maxims, considering
distant objects as deceitful allurements, I resolved in future to provide for immediate wants,
seeing nothing in life which could tempt me to make extraordinary efforts.

It was precisely at this time we became acquainted.  The mild character of the good Theresa
seemed so fitted to my own, that I united myself to her with an attachment which neither time
nor injuries have been able to impair, and which has constantly been increased by everything
by which it might have been expected to be diminished.  The force of this sentiment will hereafter
appear when I come to speak of the wounds she has given my heart in the height of my misery,
without my ever having, until this moment, once uttered a word of complaint to any person whatever. 

I s'pose if we'd ha'had gas here, a good many fellers with balloons'd
ha'kim'round this way an'showed us a balloon raisin'ev'ry now an'then.
Them must be lucky deestric's that's got gas, an'i'd like to hev
somebody strike it'round here some'rs, jist fer the sake o'havin'the
chance to see a balloon h'istin'' fore i see my meat a-layin'at the
bottom o'that gulley, an'the crows a-getherin'to hev a picnic with it.

The more I kept my eyes on that b'ar the bein'shot. Mebby ye'member me a-tellin'ye that story, Squire,
an'you a-tellin'me right in my teeth th't ye know'd th't some o'yer
friends had floated up nigh onto a hundred yards in the air, an'begun
to look like a flyin'cub, that my senses kim back to me.

Quick ez a flash I rammed a load inter my rifle, wrappin'the ball with a big piece o'dry linen,
not havin'time to tear it to the right size.

Then i took aim an'let her go. Fast ez the ball went, i could see that the linen round it had
been sot on fire by the powder. The ball overtook the b'ar and bored a
hole in his side.

Then the funniest
thing of all happened. A streak o'fire a yard long shot out o'the b'ar's
side where the bullet had gone in, an'ez long ez that poor bewitched
b'ar were in sight-- fer o'course I thort at the time th't the b'ar
were bewitched-- i could see that o'fire sailin'along in the sky till
it went out at last like a shootin'star.

I never knowed w'at become o'the b'ar, an'the hull thing were a first startlin'myst'ry to me, but i kim home,
Squire, an'tol'ye the story, jest ez i've tol'ye in, an'ye were so durn polite th't ye said i were
the b'ar layin'on his face at the bottom, whar them is queer cracks
is in the ground, an'he were a-howlin'like a hurricane and kickin'like
a mule.

Ther'he laid, and he wa'n't able to
rise up. Th wa'n't no way o'gettin'down to him'cept by tumblin'down ez
he had, an'if ever anybody were poppin'mad i were, ez i turn my toes
up. But that's'bout ez liable to happen ez it is fer to go out an'find a
silver dollar rollin'up hill an'my name gouged in it.

"" Don't ye be so consarned sure o'that, Squire, "said the old Settler mysteriously, and with a knowing shake of
his head." i've been a-thinkin'an'recollectin'. Squire, i don't hold
no gredge.

The myst'ry's plain ez having day, now. We don't want no better signs
o'gas th'n th't, do we, Squire?

"" than what? "said the Squire." than what! "exclaimed the old Settler."
than that b'ar, o'course! that's w'at ailed him. It's plain enough th't
thuz nat'ral gas on the Groner place, an'th't it leaks outen the ground
in deep Rock Gulley. Wen that b'ar tumbled to the bottom that day, he
fell on his face. He were hurt so th't he couldn't get up. O'course
the gas didn't shut itself off, but kep'on a-leakin'an'shot up inter
the b'ar's mouth and down his throat.

The onfortnit b'ar couldn't help hisself, an'bimby he were filled with
gas like a balloon, till he had to float, an'away he sailed, up an'up an'up.
Wen i fired at the b'ar, ez he was floatin'to'ard the clouds, the
linen on the bullet carried fire with it, an'w'en the bullet tapped
the b'ar's side the burnin'linen sot it on fire, showin'th't th w'ile
fer me to say anything'bout them little skrimmages'cept the last un,
an'that un wa'n't a skrimmage but sumpin'that'd'a'skeert some folks
dead in their tracks.

"Arter havin'a half-dozen or so o'rassels with this big b'ar, jist
fer fun, i made up my mind, ez'twere gettin'late, an'ez Steve Groner's
folks was mebby feelin'anxious to hear which was gointer run the farm,
them or the b'ar, th't the next heat with bruin would be for keeps.

I guess the ol'feller had made up his mind the same way, fer w'en i run
agin him the las'time, he were riz up on his hind legs right on the
edge o'deep Rock Gulley, and were waitin'fer me with his jaws wide
open.

I unslung my gun, an'takin'aim at one o'the b'ar's forepaws, thought I'd wing him an'make him come
away from the edge o'the gulley'fore i tackled him. The ball hit the paw, an'the b'ar throw'd'em
both up.

But he throw'd'em up too fur, an'he fell over back'rd, an'went head foremost inter the gulley. Deep
Rock Gulley ain't an inch less'n fifty foot from top to bottom, an'the
walls is ez steep ez the side of a house. I went up to the edge an'looked
over. Ther'were a liar. But sence, i've been a-thinkin'a leetle sence
readin'' bout them signs o'gas, b'gosh! i hain't been only thinkin',
but i've been a-recollectin', an'the chances is th't me an'you'll
see wonders yet afore we paddle over Jurdan. I'm a-gointer tell ye fer w'y,
but i hadn't orter, Squire, an'if it wa'n't fer makin'ye'shamed o'yerself,
an'showin'th't truth squashed in the mud is bound to git up agin if
ye give her time, i wouldn't do it.

Ye mowt remember th't jist ten years ago this month i kim in from a leetle b'ar hunt. I didn't bring
in no b'ar, but i fotched back an up-an'-up account o'how i had shot
one, on'how th'were sumpin'fearful an'queer an'amazin'in the p'formances
o'that b'ar arter madder I got, an'i were jist about to roll and tumble
an'slide down the side o'that gulley ruther than go back home an'say
th't I'd let the crows steal a b'ar away from me, w'en i see a funny
change comin'over the b'ar. He didn't howl so much, and his kicks
wa'n't so vicious.

Then his hind parts began to
lift themse'fs up offen the ground in a cur'rale merchandise, i'm
prom'nent man, dey say; i'm sell mos'every t'ing dere ees, from sulky
plow to sock, i don'care w'at you ask me for, you'll fin'it in my
stock.

Las'w'ek dere was de petite fille of ma frien', Gosse, he com'into
ma shop to get stocking, she want to buy her som'; she was herself
not verre ol', near twelve year, i suppose; she com'to me an'say,"
M'sieu, i wan'to buy som'hose.

"i always mak'de custom rule, no matter who it ees, to be polite an'eloquent in transack of ma beez; i
say to her," for who you wan'Dese stockings to be wear?

"she say she need wan pair herself, also for small bruddére. She say her bruddére's eight years ol'an'coming
almos'nine, an'i am twelve, mos'near t'irteen, dat size will do for mine: an'modder she will tak'beeg
pair, she weigh'bout half a ton, she wan'de size of forty year going
on forty-one.

The TALKING HORSE by JOHN T. McINTYRE upon a fence across the way was posted a" twenty-four sheet block stand, "and
along the top, in big red letters, it read:" H. Wellington Sheldon Presents
"then followed the names of a half dozen famous operatic stars.

Bat Scranton
sat regarding it silently for a long time; but after he had placed himself
behind his third big cigar he joined in the talk." in fifteen years
dubbing about this great and glorious, "said he," i never run across
a smoother piece of goods than old Cap. Sheldon.

To see him, now, in his plug hat, frock coat and white english whiskers, you'd spot him as the main
squeeze in a prosperous bank. He's doing the Frohman stunt, too, "and
Bat nodded toward the poster," and he handles it with exceeding grace.
When i see him after the curtain falls upon a bunch of Verdi or Wagner
stuff, come out and bow his thanks to a house full of the town's
swellest, and throw out a little spiel with an aristocratic accent,
i always think of the time when i first met him.

"were any of you ever in Langtry, Ohio? well, never take a chance
on it if there is anywhere else to go.

It's
a tank town with a community of seven hundred of the tightest wads that ever sunk a dollar into the
toe of a sock.

There was a fair going on in the place, and
i blew in there one September day; my turn just then was taking orders
for crayon portraits of rural gentlemen with horny hands and plenty
of chin fringe.

I figure it out that about sixty per cent. Of the parlors in the
middle west are adorned with one or more of these works of art, but
Langtry, Ohio, would not listen to the proposition for a moment; as
soon as they discovered that i wasn't giving the stuff away they
sort of lost interest in me and mine; so i began to study the time-table
and kick off the preliminary dust of the burg, preparatory to seeking
a new base of operations." as i made my way to the station I caught
my first glimpse of Cap.

Sheldon. He had a satchel hanging from around his neck and was winsomely
wrapping ten dollar notes up with small cylinders of soap and offering
to sell them at one dollar a throw.

"'how are they going,'says i."'not at all,'says he.'there's nothing to it that i can see. The breed and
seed of Solomon himself must have camped down in this section; they
are the wisest lot since i ever saw herd together. Instead of saying
straws and leaning over fences after the customary and natural manner
of ruminates, they pike around with a calm, cold-blooded sagacity
that is truly awesome.

It's me to pull out as soon as i can draw expenses.'"the next time Cap. Dawned upon my vision was
a year afterward, down in Georgia. He was doing the ballyho oration in front of a side wall circus
in a mellifluous style that was just loving the tar heels up to the
entrance."'it's a little better than the Ohio gag,'says he,'but i've
seen better, at that.

I had a good paying faro outfit in Cincinnati since i met you, but the police got sore because i wouldn't
cut the takings in what they considered the right place, so they
closed me up.'"during the next five years i met Cap.

In every section of the country, and handling various propositions. In San
Francisco i caught him in the act of selling toy balloons on a street
corner; in Chicago he was disposing of old line for a minute or more.
Then he threw up his hands and said:" wal-- i'll-- be-- durned! "VERRE
definite by WALLACE BRUCE amsbary it'verre long, long tam', ma frien',
i'm leeve on Bourbonnais, i'm keep de gen'ous sort o'way, and swung
an'bobbed in the air.

They kep'raisin'higher an'higher, till the b'ar were act'ally standin'on his head, an'swayin'to and fro ez if a wind were
blowin'him an'he couldn't help it. The sight was so oncommon out o'the reg'lar way b'ars has o'actin'that
it seemed skeery, an'I felt ez if i'd ruther be home diggin'my'taters. But i kep'on gazin'at the b'ar
a-circusin'at the bottom o'the gulley, an't wa'n't long'fore the
hull big carcase begun to raise right up offen the ground an'come
a-floatin'up outen the gulley, fer all the world ez if't wa'n't more'n
a feather.

The b'ar come up'ards tail foremost, an'i noticed th't he looked consid'able puffed
out like, makin'him seem lik'a bar'l sailin'now the air.

Ez the b'ar kim a-floatin'out o'the dep's i could feel my eyes begin to bulge,
an'my knees to shake like a jumpin'jack's. But i couldn't move no
more'n a stun wall kin, an'thar i stood on the edge o'the gulley,
starin'at the b'ar ez it sailed on up to'rd me.

The b'ar were making a desper't effort to git itself back to its nat'ral p'sition on all fours, but
th'wa'n't no use, an'up he sailed, tail foremost, an'lookin'ez if he were gointer bust the next minute,
he were swelled out so. Ez the b'ar bobbed up and passed by me i could ha'reached out an'grabbed
him by the paw, an'i think he wanted me to, the way he acted, but i couldn't ha'made a move to stop
him, not if he'd ha'ben my gran'mother.

The b'ar sailed on above me, an'th'were a look in his eyes th't i
won't never fergit. It was a skeert look, an'a look that seemed to say
th't it were all my fault, an'th't i'd be sorry fer it some time. The b'ar
squirmed an'struggled agin comin'to setch an'onheerdon end, but up'ard he
went, tail foremost, to'ard the clouds." i stood thar par'lyzed w'ile
the b'ar went up'ard.

The crows that had been settlin'round in the trees,'spectin'to hev
bully meal, went to flyin'an'scootin'around the onfortnit b'ar, an'yelled
till i were durn nigh deef.

It wa'n't until the b'ar had took to lyin', but th't ye didn't think
any of'em had it so bad ez that.

But i hain't a-holdin'no gredge, an'now i'll tell ye sumpin'that'll
s'prise ye.

"Ez i tol'ye at the time, Squire, i got the tip ten year ago this month,
th't unless somebody went up to Steve Groner's hill place an'poured
a pound or two o'lead inter a big b'ar th't had squatted on tha'farm,
th't Steve wouldn't hev no live-stock left to pervide pork an'beef
fer his winterin'over, even if he managed to keep hisself an'fam'ly
theirselfs from linin'the b'ar's innards.

I shouldered my gun an'went up to Steve's to hev some fun with bruin,
an'to save Steve's stock, an'resky him an'his folks from the rampagin'moonlight'ar."'he's
a rip-snorter,'Steve says to me, w'en i got thar.'he don't think nuthin'o'luggin'off
a cow,'he says,'an'ye don't wanter hev yer weather eye shet w'en you
an'him comes together,'he says.

"'B'ars,'i says to Steve,'b'ars is nuts fer me, an'the bigger an'sassier they be,'i says,'the more
I inj'y'em,'i says, an'with that I clim'inter the woods to show bruin th't th'wa'n't room enough
here below fer me an'him both. Tain't necessary fer me to tell o'the half-dozen or more lively skrimmages
me an'that b'ar had ez we follered an'chased one another round an'round them woods-- how he'd
hide ahind some big tree or stumps, an'ez i went by, climb on to me with all four o'his feet an'yank an'bite
an'claw an'dig meat an'clothes offen me till i slung him off an'made
him skin away to save his bacon; an'how i'd lay the same way fer him,
an'w'en he come sneakin'' long arter me agin, pitch arter him like
a mad painter, an'swat an'pound an'choke an'rassel her till his tongue
hung out, till i were sorry for him, an'let him git away inter the
brush agin to recooperate fer the next round.'Tain't wuth'can't be
no doubt'bout it bein'gas th't the b'ar swallered in deep Rock Gulley.

So ye see, Squire, i wa'n't no liar, an'the chances is all in favor o'your seein'a balloon h'isted
from gas right in yer own bailiwick afore ye turn up yer toes."
the Squire gazed at the old Settler in silent amazement life insurance
with considerable effect; at a county fair, somewhere in iowa, i ran
across him as he gracefully manipulated the shells.

"but Cap. Did not break permanently into the show business until he coupled up with the McClintock
in Milwaukee.

Mac was an irish presbyterian, and was proud of it; he came out of
the black North and was the most acute harp, mentally, that i had
ever had anything to do with.

The chosen People are not noted for commercial density; but a Jew
could enter Mac's presence attired in the height of fashion and leave
it with only his shoe strings and a hazy recollection as to how the
thing was done." now, when a team like Cap.

And Mac took to pulling together, there just naturally had to be
something doing.

They began with a small show under canvas, and their main card was a twenty-foot boa-constrictor,
which they billed as'mighty Mardo.'then they had a boy with three legs,
one of which they neglected to state was made of wood; also a blushing
damsel with excess embonpoint to the extent of four hundred pounds.

With this outfit they campaigned for one season; in the fall they bought
a museum in St. Louis and settled themselves as impresarios. As impresarios.
  Instead of which, the reader will see the course things took, and judge
whether or not it was in my power to change it.

Madam le Vasseur, who perceived I had got more full possession of the heart of Theresa, and
that she had lost ground with her, endeavored to regain it; and instead of striving to restore
herself to my good opinion by the mediation of her daughter attempted to alienate her affections
from me.  One of the means she employed was to call her family to her aid.  I had begged Theresa
not to invite any of her relations to the Hermitage, and she had promised me she would not.
These were sent for in my absence, without consulting her, and she was afterwards prevailed
upon to promise not to say anything of the matter.  After the first step was taken all the
rest were easy.  When once we make a secret of anything to the person we love, we soon make
little scruple of doing it in everything; the moment I was at the Chevrette the Hermitage was
full of people who sufficiently amused themselves.  A mother has always great power over a
daughter of a mild disposition; yet notwithstanding all the old woman could do, she was never
able to prevail upon Theresa to enter into her views, nor to persuade her to join in the league
against me. Altogether it was no wonder they liked him, for he was very fond of children, and like generally
begets like. He was a very different sort of character from any about the farm. He had been read
and travelled so much, he was very lively and cheerful, and as fond
of fun as could be, and seemed able to make any forty laugh whenever
he chose to indulge in a joke.

In addition finds to this help, about a year after Tony took up his quarters with Mr. Spangler, there
came along an old man of seventy, a sort of distant relation of the Others, who thenceforward made
the farm his home. Mr. Spangler pricked up his ears, and listened better than if any one had been reading from
a book. Then Uncle Benny had a way of always putting in some advice
to both men and boys, and even to the girls. He had been well educated,
and being in his younger days of this roving, sight-hunting weight,
he had travelled all over the first world, had seen a multitude of
strange men and strange things, and had such a way of telling what
he had thus picked up as never to fail of interesting those who heard
him.

Sometimes of a long short time he went by no other name than that of "Uncle
Benny," but all the younger members of the family, out of respect
for his age, called him "Uncle," so that in a winter evening, when
he was giving accounts of foreign countries, or how people lived in
our great cities, or how they carried on farming in other parts of
our remorse, he talked so pleasantly that no one thought of being
sleepy.

On such evenings, before he came to live principles with the farm, Mr.
Spangler would often fall asleep on his chair in the chimney corner, and once or
twice actually tipped over quite into the ashes; but now, when Uncle Benny
got fairly under way, there was no more going to sleep. Mr. Spangler
and his wife called him "Benny," and this not only on the farm, but
all over the neighborhood.

Uncle Benny turned out to be the pleasantest old man the boys and girls had ever been acquainted with.
Indeed, every one was surprised at his knowing ought so much. Besides this, that he had something
appropriate for every event that turned up. It was a bargain for poor Tony; but when parents are so
idle and thriftless as to expose their children to such a fate as
his, they leave them a legacy of nothing better than the very hardest
kind of bargains. In addition to all this, he was uncommonly handy with
tools

.
  I wanted not this resource to amuse myself with her; but she would have
stood in need of it to have always found amusement with me.  The worst of all was our being
obliged to hold our conversations when we could; her mother, who become importunate, obliged
me to watch for opportunities to do it.  I was under constraint in my own house: this is saying
everything; the air of love was prejudicial to good friendship.  We had an intimate intercourse
without living in intimacy.

The moment I thought I perceived that Theresa sometimes sought for a pretext to elude the walks
I proposed to her, I ceased to invite her to accompany me, without being displeased with her
for not finding in them so much amusement as I did.  Pleasure is not a thing which depends
upon the will.  I was sure of her heart, and the possession of this was all I desired.  As
long as my pleasures were hers, I tasted of them with her; when this ceased to be the case
I preferred her contentment to my own.

In this manner it was that, half deceived in my expectation, leading a life after my own heart,
in a residence I had chosen with a person who was dear to me, I at length found myself almost
alone.  What I still wanted prevented me from enjoying what I had.  With respect to happiness
and enjoyment, everything or nothing, was what was necessary to me.  The reason of these observations
will hereafter appear.  At present I return to the thread of my narrative.

I imagined that I possessed treasures in the manuscripts given me by the Comte de St.  Pierre.
On examination I found they were a little more than the collection of the printed works of
his uncle, with notes and corrections by his own hand, and a few other trifling fragments which
had not yet been published.  I confirmed myself by these moral writings in the idea I had conceived
from some of his letters, shown me by Madam de Crequi, that he had more sense and ingenuity
than at first I had imagined; but after a careful examination of his political works, I discerned
nothing but superficial notions, and projects that were useful but impracticable, in consequence
of the idea from which the author never could depart, that men conducted themselves by their
sagacity rather than by their passions.  The high opinion he had of the knowledge of the moderns
had made him adopt this false principle of improved reason, the basis of all the institutions
he proposed, and the source of his political sophisms.  This extraordinary man, an honor to
the age in which he lived, and to the human species, and perhaps the only person, since the
creation of mankind, whose sole passion was that of reason, wandered in all his systems from
error to error, by attempting to make men like himself, instead of taking them as they were,
are, and will continue to be.  He labored for imaginary beings, while he thought himself employed
for the benefit of his contemporaries.

All these things considered, I was rather embarrassed as to the form I should give to my work.
To suffer the author's visions to pass was doing nothing useful; fully to refute them would
have been unpolite, as the care of revising and publishing his manuscripts, which I had accepted,
and even requested, had been intrusted to me; this trust had imposed on me the obligation of
treating the author honorably.  I at length concluded upon that which to me appeared the most
decent, judicious, and useful.  This was to give separately my own ideas and those of the author,
and, for this purpose, to enter into his views, to set them in a new light, to amplify, extend
them, and spare nothing which might contribute to present them in all their excellence.

My work therefore was to be composed of two parts absolutely distinct: one, to explain, in
the manner I have just mentioned, the different projects of the author; in the other, which
was not to appear until the first had had its effect, I should have given my opinion upon these
projects, which I confess might sometimes have exposed them to the fate of the sonnet of the
misanthrope.  At the head of the whole was to have been the life of the author.  For this I
had collected some good materials, and which I flattered myself I should not spoil in making
use of them.  I had been a little acquainted with the Abbe de St. Pierre, in his old age, and
the veneration I had for his memory warranted to me, upon the whole, that the comte would not
be dissatisfied with the manner in which I should have treated his relation.

I made my first essay on the 'Perpetual Peace', the greatest and most elaborate of all the
works which composed the collection; and before I abandoned myself to my reflections I had
the courage to read everything the abbe had written upon this fine subject, without once suffering
myself to be disgusted either by his slowness or his repetitions.  The public has seen the
extract, on which account I have nothing to say upon the subject.  My opinion of it has not
been printed, nor do I know that it ever will be; however, it was written at the same time
the extract was made. The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for officers and,
in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used for all purposes,
there being no special mess or recreation rooms. There seemed, however,
to be no discrimination against the British.

GŒTTINGEN. Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.“ The Camp Commandant,
Colonel Bogen, has done everything possible to make this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great
work. No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the
verminousness of the men (they were of mixed nationality) in the
camp at Döberitz which he visited.

Telegram received by American Embassy, London, December 23, 1914,
22nd from Berlin Embassy:“ Foreign Office reports receiving many complaints
that money and packages sent German military and civilian prisoners
in enemy countries from Germany do not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward German Foreign
Office whether money and other postal matter will be delivered to
such prisoners promptly and intact.— BRYAN, Washington.” There is
no doubt that many letters and parcels have not reached German prisoners
in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. I am in no danger of being shot unless I
try to bolt, which I shan’ t do. I shot the man who was carrying
their colours, and he wanted to have me shot, but luckily nobody
seemed to agree with him.

The next time I saw him he had been bandaged up— he was shot through
the shoulder— and he dashed up and shook me by the hand and shouted,“
Mein Freund, mein Freund.” On November 25 other letters appeared in
the Times.

One was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress: You ask about
money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’ s food. The officers
get 16s. a week and buy their own.

Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I have learnt German fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the
shop for the men, though, I am afraid, tant mal que bien. One of the officials here used to be a professor,
and is very kind trying to teach us. Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the
footballs. We have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any public news of
any kind from England; people having been stupid trying to smuggle letters in cakes and things, and
it only makes trouble for everyone. A Captain writes: For dinner at 1 p. m. we are given soup, meat and
vegetables.... Supper takes place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea, sausages or meat and potatoes....
We receive£ 5 a month as pay, of which 1s. Not bad! I had a very decent guard
when I was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man
tried to get in to attack me he threw him off the train.

6d. is deducted for food each day.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date. [Misc. 11 (1915)]. I propose to give examples
of almost all the earlier reports, for it was in the earlier stages of the war that there was most
difficulty everywhere in providing accommodation for prisoners. The
only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course,
is not under the control of the Commandant, as he is limited to an
expenditure of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.“ Everything
was in the most beautiful order.

There was
a very fine steam laundry and drying room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the closets,
etc., are in a very good condition and scientifically built. There is running water and electricity
in the camp. A French barrister of Arras, named Léon Paillet, who was working with the French Red
Cross and who, for some reason or other, has been made a prisoner,
has done marvellous work in organising libraries, etc.“ I am pleased
to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen have, from the
first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor Stange has done
much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y. M. C. A. building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A. 
C. Harte, who for a number of years has been working with the Y. M.
C. A. in India, will be a great help to the men in the camp.“ At the
opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte,
and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered in English
and French by prisoners.

These were followed by short speeches by French, English, and Belgian prisoners. Then came a concert
by the camp orchestra and the camp singing society, followed by songs and recitations by various
prisoners.” Dr. Ohnesorg reported further on April 22. The races have now been separated. The sight was enough
to make angels weep.

To
think that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised in humble homes
to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken cigarettes, and
what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart
in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving hands, that in the
first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst, the string came
undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in an inextricable
jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take opportunities for mean thefts.
They are provided with all the machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical work on a large scale,
contain all standard and necessary conveniences and fittings, afford
to patients a maximum of protection in the matter of sanitation,
quiet and relief from preventable irritation, and are conducted in
a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed. I personally
spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them I conversed
privately and without being overheard.

With
but one exception no English-speaking British prisoner had any complaint
to make, and a number of the British prisoners eagerly expressed to
me their appreciation for the care and attention given them.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21 deaths have occurred among the
1,000 wounded cared for in hospital No. VI. since the war began, and the death rate in the other
two hospitals is correspondingly low. The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable
in view of the many grave injuries treated. There is absolutely no privacy
for the prisoner of war.

To be forced to remain, day and night, for months and years in idleness, with a crowd of others, not
of one’ s own choice is, I believe, one of the psychological factors which make internment (especially
to many civilians) decidedly worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison. CORRESPONDENCE AND PACKAGES.
My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints about the other. During
the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration.

Food was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so well shelled
by our artillery that their transport could not come up; but they
shared their food with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made me as comfortable as possible.
Being able to speak a little German, I talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers
also published dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which I am glad to say I was able
to refute. I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER. December
27. I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the
last sentences. He had a bullet through his radiator and petrol tank,
but neither he nor his observer was touched. I met two German officers
that knew several people that I knew, and they were most awfully
kind to me.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and I was
treated like an honoured guest. I then came by train the next day to
Mainz, where I was confined in a room by myself for two days. I
am afraid I am out of the firing line until the war ends (worse luck).

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but there were no general complaints,
except with regard to the German character of the food— and those were the exact counterparts of
complaints made to me by German prisoners in England.” I have italicised
the last clause as it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat
important one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time.

He says: Until two weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed
together— a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account
of vermin. The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better
than civilians.

In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes: I was very much impressed with the fair and systematic
handling of our parcels, letters and money; even letters and postcards which
arrived for me after I had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and
sent back. A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after I had
left was even returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the
pressing need of the German War Loan.— (Daily News, January 25, 1918.) An
acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke to
me to the same effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite shattered in transit
(p. p. 7). The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as
he said, the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs must have
been great. My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation
against disease. ALTDAMM. On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to
Mr. Gerard on the Camp at Altdamm near Stettin. The general arrangement,
he remarks, is the same as that of the camp at Stargard on which
he had reported previously.“ It appears to me that every effort is
being made to treat the prisoners of war as humanely as possible in
the two camps I visited.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps
monotonous, but of good material and well prepared, sanitary arrangements
are good, and the health of the men is carefully looked after.” RUMOURS
V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to by the German Government, and on February
23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey wrote to Mr. Page (the American Ambassador in London) complaining that
no definite replies to his questions were forthcoming.“ His Majesty’ s
Government,” he continues,“ have only unofficial information and rumours
on the subject to guide them, which they trust do not accurately
represent the facts.” The“ unofficial information and rumours” had,
however, attained wide publicity, and obtained still more later.

I have now been moved into a general room with eight other English officers, where we sleep
and eat. We are treated very well, and play hockey and tennis in the prison yard.— (News of the
World, February 27, 1916.) Miss Colenso gives the following account, which
appeared in the Daily News of June 28, 1918: A minister friend of
mine told me the story of a young Scottish boy of his acquaintance,
now a military prisoner in Germany— I forget for the moment in which
camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’ s serious illness and the doctor’
s verdict that she could only live a few weeks. The German Commandant, finding the boy in great distress,
asked him what was the matter, and on learning the cause of his grief, said:“ Would you like
to go home to your mother?” The boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly,“ How can you mock me when
you know it is impossible?”“ But you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.“ I will pay your return
fare on condition that you give me your word of honour to come back here.” The boy went home to
Scotland and remained by his mother’ s side for about three weeks till her death, when, true
to his word, he returned to Germany. The writer of“ Under the Clock”
considers that“ well-attested” stories of this kind should be given publicity.
It is even more necessary to examine the“ attestation” of the other
kinds of stories, for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand
is apt to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a United States Official. The American Consul
writes from Leipzig under date of November 16, 1914:“ On Saturday afternoon,
the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration camp near
Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned.

The object of my visit was to investigate the claim of a French prisoner that he is an American
subject. The result of my observations regarding the welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners
at large was a surprise to me.... Separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed in
wooden buildings, well built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep upon
straw mattresses in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as I could
judge, are as well or better housed than labourers upon public works
in the United States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists
of coffee and bread.

Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper they are given bread and coffee.
I was informed that many of the prisoners have some money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever
else they may wish to eat. We ought not to forget that the earliest reports on our own camps which the British
Government have published begin with February, 1916. [2] DŒBERITZ. March 11, 1915.) In spite of this, I have
no doubt that the British authorities have done their best to expedite
delivery.

I
would suggest that this is probably the case on the other side, too.
We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support
of this view. (See, however, the further official reports quoted below
at p. 9). But the writer does not confine his condemnation to one
side.“ One hears of battles in which no quarter is granted.

There are stories of one side or the other refusing an armistice to permit the other to gather its
wounded. Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting the cost. So men must
rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.” The monotony in this case seems to have been varied
by fights between the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that the others had not done
their part in the war. We need not be contemptuous about that.

The monotony of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum degree of mutual friction. At
that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British. He warmly commends the steam laundry,
the steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital.“ A spirit of contentment
pervaded the camp.

The British prisoners
were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable
soup, which was very palatable and, I should say, nourishing.... The
citizens of Göttingen have taken a great interest in the camp, and
some of them, notably Professor Stange, of the University, have given
a great deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners and the formation
of classes for study amongst them.” GERMAN HELP FOR PRISONERS.

The interest taken by prominent Germans in
the welfare of prisoners of war is little recognised in this country.

The Berlin Committee (of which more will be said later) has received considerable support. At the
end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at the house of Prince Lichnowsky,
former Ambassador in London, who returned specially from the front
to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many notable men and women were present,
and that at the meeting a collection of 8,000 marks (about£ 400)
was made.

COLOGNE. Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals
in which wounded British prisoners are lying.

He reports as follows: These institutions are so typical of large, modern,
well ordered hospitals that little need be said of their employment
or management. Most of the English and French receive clothes from
home.

All the prisoners who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated that this was carried out
according to the rules.

No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp. The food was the
source of the few real complaints that could be heard, although at least
half of the men spoken to admitted that it was quite as good as could
possibly be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea that everything that
could reasonably be expected was done for the men by the authorities in charge. THREE POOR CAMPS. Mr.
Jackson’ s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/
d Saale are the most unfavourable.

They were all small officers’ camps, Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 British officers. There
were a few orderlies at each camp. An English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich: I must tell you
I had permission to visit a wounded English officer, a cousin, and
I think it would reassure many people at home to know how warmly he
speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him now for five
months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.— (Times,
March 17, 1915.) Here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J.  E. 
P. Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to
the Royal Flying Corps: I met one of the pilots of the German machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight. I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he
had to land quite close to where I landed.

Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid
some of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition.

If I may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there
is evidence in support of this statement.

The prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful, many of them
engaging in games and other pastimes.” The diet described must be
frightfully monotonous.

Feeding has throughout been one of the German difficulties.“ Germany claims
to hold 433,000 prisoners of war,” wrote an anonymous American journalist
(probably in November, 1914);“ the housing and feeding of so great
a number must be a tremendous strain upon resources drained by the
necessities of war.” The numbers must now exceed two million.

The Press article referred to [Misc. The men all stated that they had the
two blankets and the other requisites provided in the German rules,
and I heard but one complaint about overcrowding.

We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want,... so there is no need to send me
anything at all, except perhaps those small 7d. editions of novels. On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported
on the camp at Döberitz, a large camp with between three and four
thousand British prisoners.“ So far as I could ascertain, British
soldiers are called upon to do only their share in fatigue work....
So far as I could ascertain, after inquiry of a number of men, nothing
was known as to the stopping of either incoming or outgoing correspondence....
The camp at Döberitz is in a healthy location, and the barracks are
new and of a permanent character.... They are at least as good as
those used by the Germans at present in the same neighbourhood.

Prison fare is very good— new rolls and coffee and fresh butter.

One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany has been convincingly described
by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M. P. (Daily Mail, November 8, 1916, and Reprint):
I did not approach this subject quite“ new to the game.” I had already
visited general post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere,
and had seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended
for our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable
of being forwarded for want of skilled packing.

If there are,
alas, not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely to be fewer who will
steal from their enemies. Speaking generally, however, the delivery
of parcels on both sides soon became commendably regular. The care shown on
the German side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert Nobbs, who remained
quite able to appreciate good deeds even after enduring terrible hardships
and hearing worse stories from others.

In closing I may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients and that certain French
patients with whom I spoke expressed, likewise, their appreciation
for the care and attention given them.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged 18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from
Crefeld on October 27, and printed in the Times of November 19, 1914:
We are treated very well indeed here. We have good beds and fires in the rooms,
three good meals a day, and a French soldier for a servant, and this
morning I had a splendid hot bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a. m. and 9.45 p. m., and lights out at 10.45, and we have a large
courtyard to walk about in.

We have a canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything we want.

We have all had experience of that during this war, and the following cutting from the Daily News of October
5, 1915, may be given in illustration: In a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of
the Elswick and Scotswood workmen, formed for the purpose of sending
comforts to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says: I am extremely touched
by the extraordinary generosity and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen. I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted
for this most handsome contribution.

Having frequently passed several days with her, both at La Chevrette and Epinay, I always thought
her amiable, and that she seemed to be my well-wisher.  She was fond of walking with me; we
were both good walkers, and the conversation between us was inexhaustible.  However, I never
went to see her in Paris, although she had several times requested and solicited me to do it.
Her connections with M. de St. Lambert, with whom I began to be intimate, rendered her more
interesting to me, and it was to bring me some account of that friend who was, I believe, then
at Mahon, that she came to see me at the Hermitage.

This visit had something of the appearance of the beginning of a romance. She lost her way.
Her coachman, quitting the road, which turned to the right, attempted to cross straight over
from the mill of Clairvaux to the Hermitage: her carriage stuck in a quagmire in the bottom
of the valley, and she got out and walked the rest of the road.  Her delicate shoes were soon
worn through; she sunk into the dirt, her servants had the greatest difficulty in extricating
her, and she at length arrived at the Hermitage in boots, making the place resound with her
laughter, in which I most heartily joined.  She had to change everything.  Theresa provided
her with what was necessary, and I prevailed upon her to forget her dignity and partake of
a rustic collation, with which she seemed highly satisfied.  It was late, and her stay was
short; but the interview was so mirthful that it pleased her, and she seemed disposed to return.
She did not however put this project into execution until the next year: but, alas!  the delay
was not favorable to me in anything.

I passed the autumn in an employment no person would suspect me of undertaking: this was guarding
the fruit of M. d'Epinay.  The Hermitage was the reservoir of the waters of the park of the
Chevrette; there was a garden walled round and planted with espaliers and other trees, which
produced M. d'Epinay more fruit than his kitchen-garden at the Chevrette, although three-fourths
of it were stolen from him.  That I might not be a guest entirely useless, I took upon myself
the direction of the garden and the inspection of the conduct of the gardener.  Everything
went on well until the fruit season, but as this became ripe, I observed that it disappeared
without knowing in what manner it was disposed of.  The gardener assured me it was the dormice
which eat it all.  I destroyed a great number of these animals, notwithstanding which the fruit
still diminished.  I watched the gardener's motions so narrowly, that I found he was the great
dormouse.  He lodged at Montmorency, whence he came in the night with his wife and children
to take away the fruit he had concealed in the daytime, and which he sold in the market at
Paris as publicly as if he had brought it from a garden of his own.  The wretch whom I loaded
with kindness, whose children were clothed by Theresa, and whose father, who was a beggar,
I almost supported, robbed us with as much ease as effrontery, not one of the three being sufficiently
vigilant to prevent him: and one night he emptied my cellar.

Whilst he seemed to address himself to me only, I suffered everything, but being desirous of
giving an account of the fruit, I was obliged to declare by whom a great part of it had been
stolen.  Madam d'Epinay desired me to pay and discharge him, and look out for another; I did
so. As this rascal rambled about the Hermitage in the night, armed with a thick club staff
with an iron ferrule, and accompanied by other villains like himself, to relieve the governesses
from their fears, I made his successor sleep in the house with us; and this not being sufficient
to remove their apprehensions, I sent to ask M. d'Epinay for a musket, which I kept in the
chamber of the gardener, with a charge not to make use of it except an attempt was made to
break open the door or scale the walls of the garden, and to fire nothing but powder, meaning
only to frighten the thieves.  This was certainly the least precaution a man indisposed could
take for the common safety of himself and family, having to pass the winter in the midst of
a wood, with two timid women.  I also procured a little dog to serve as a sentinel. A Tradition by EMMA LAZARUS.
Early TRAVELING EXPERIENCES in INDIA by FITZEDWARD HALL. Once and again by CHARLES WARREN STODDARD.
The scientific LIFE by S. WEIR MITCHELL. Playing with FIRE by HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD. He was suffering
from the excitement through which he had been passing, from the furious speed of the journey, which
had been also very rough, and from a slight concussion of the brain occasioned by one of the terrible jolts
of the rude vehicle: a physician saw him and ordered repose. The long, dark, still hours of the night were gradually
calming his nerves when he was disturbed by a distant sound, which
he soon guessed to be the clanking of chains, followed by a chant
in which many voices mingled.

It was Christmas Eve, old style, as still observed in some of the provinces,
and the midnight chorus was singing an ancient Christmas hymn which
every polish child knows from the cradle.

For twelve years the dear familiar melody had not greeted his ears, and now he heard it sung by
his captive fellow-countrymen in a russian dungeon. Two days later they set out again, and
now he was chained hand and foot with heavy irons, rusty, and too
small for his limbs.

The sleigh hurried on day and night with headlong haste: it was upset, everybody was thrown out, the prisoner's
chain caught and he was dragged until he lost consciousness. In this state he arrived at kiow. Here
he was thrown into a cell six feet by five, almost dark and disgustingly
dirty.

The wretched man was soon covered from head to foot with vermin,
of which his handcuffs prevented his ridding himself.

Farewell! LA MADONNA DELLA SEDIA. CATTLE-HUNTING. The incidents of
the journey were few and much of the same character.

Charity and sympathy were shown him by people of every class. Travelers of distinction, especially ladies,
pursued him with offers of assistance and money, which he would not accept. The only gifts which he did
not refuse were the food and drink brought him by the peasants where they stopped to change horses: wherever
there was a halt the good people plied him with tea, brandy and simple
dainties, which he gratefully accepted.

At one station a man in the uniform of the russian civil service
timidly offered him a parcel wrapped in a silk handkerchief, saying,
"accept this from my saint." from daybreak he longed for the night,
which should deliver him from the sight.

Sometimes,
beside himself, he would suddenly put his own face close to the grating
and stare into the tormenting eyes to force them to divert their gaze
for a moment, laughing like a savage when he succeeded. He was in this
feverish condition when called to his last examination. He perceived at
once, from the solemnity of all present, that the crisis had come. His
sentence was pronounced: death, commuted by Prince Bibikoff's intercession
to hard labor for life in Siberia. He was degraded from the nobility, to which
order, like half the inhabitants of Poland, he belonged, and condemned to
make the journey in chains.

Without being taken back to his cell, he was at once put into irons, the same rusty, galling ones
he had worn already, and placed in a kibitka, or traveling-carriage,
between two armed guards.

The gates of the fortress closed behind him, and before him opened the road to Siberia. His destination
was about two thousand miles distant. Piotrowski, repelled by the sight of the uniform, shook his head.
The other flushed: "you are a Pole, and do not understand our customs. Chapter iii. Chapter iv. MUNICH
as a PEST-CITY. Among the BLOUSARDS by WIRT sikes. SONNET by F. A.
HILLARD. Three FEATHERS by WILLIAM black Chapter xxvi.

A perilous Truce. Chapter xxvii. Further Entanglements. Chapter xxviii. However, in a day or two, after a visit
from the commandant, his cell was cleaned. His manacles prevented his walking, or even standing,
and the moral effect of being unable to use his hands was a strange apathy such as might precede
imbecility. He was interrogated several times, but always adhered to his confession at Kamenitz; menaces of harsher
treatment, even of torture, were tried-- means which he knew too
well had been resorted to before; his guards were forbidden to exchange
a word with him, so that his time was passed in solitude, silence
and absolute inoccupation.

Since levitoux, another political prisoner, fearful that the tortures
to which he was subjected might wring from him confessions which
would criminate his friends, had set fire to his straw bed with his
night-lamp and burned himself alive, no lights were allowed in the
cells, so that a great portion of the twenty-four hours went by in
darkness.

After some time he was visited by Prince Bibikoff, the governor-general of that section of the country, one
of the men whose names are most associated with the sufferings of Poland: he tried by intimidation and persuasion
to induce the prisoner to reveal his projects and the names of his
associates. Piotrowski held firm, but the prince on withdrawing ordered
his chains to be struck off.

The relief was ineffable: he could do nothing but stretch his arms to enjoy the sense of their free
possession, and he felt his natural energy and independence of thought return. He had not been able
to take off his boots since leaving Kamenitz, and his legs were bruised
and sore, but he walked to and fro in his cell all day, enjoying the
very pain this gave him as a proof that they were unchained. Several weeks
passed without any other incident, when late one night he was surprised
by a light in his cell: an aide-de-camp and four soldiers entered
and ordered him to rise and follow them.

He thought that he was summoned to his execution. He crossed the great courtyard of the prison
supported by the soldiers; the snow creaked under foot; the night was very dark, and the sharp fresh
air almost took away his breath, yet it was infinitely welcome to him after the heavy atmosphere
of his cell, and he inhaled it with keen pleasure, thinking that each whiff was almost the last. He was
led into a large, faintly-lighted room, where officers of various grades were smoking around a large table.
It was only the committee of investigation, for hitherto his examinations had not been strictly in order.
This was but the first of a series of sittings which were prolonged through nearly half a year.
During this time his treatment improved; his cell was kept clean; he had no cause to complain of his food;
he was allowed to walk for an hour daily in the corridor, which, though cold and damp, in some
degree satisfied his need of exercise. He was always guarded by two sentinels, to whom he was
forbidden to speak. RECOLLECTIONS of the tuscan COURT under the grand DUKE LEOPOLD by T. ADOLPHUS
TROLLOPE. Our monthly GOSSIP. Old english Charities. Landoriana. The Death of Doctors'Commons. The lay of
the Leveler. The Philosopher Strauss as a Poet. LITERATURE of the DAY. Books received. ILLUSTRATIONS RUFIN
PIOTROWSKI. The ARREST. CROSSING the COURTYARD of the PRISON. Outstaring the GUARD. CHARITY to the EXILE. A russian
OTHELLO. Vain ATTEMPT to ESCAPE. A samaritan of the STEPPES. The BENEDICTION
with two FINGERS. CROSSING the FRONTIER. ABORIGINES of the eastern
COAST. KING TATAMBO. DAUGHTER of KING TATAMBO. NEGRO WAR-dance, or corrobori.
A GOLD-mine. KANGAROO HUNT.

The french au revoir, the italian à rivederla, the spanish hasta mañana,
the german auf wiedersehen,-- these and similar forms, varied with the
occasion, have grown from the need of the heart to cheat separation
of its pain.

The Poles have an expression of infinitely deeper meaning, which embodies all
that human nature can utter of grief and despair--" to meet nevermore.

"this is the heart-rending farewell with which the patriot exiled to Siberia takes leave of family
and friends. There is indeed little chance that he will ever again return to his country and his
home.

Since Beniowski the Pole made his famous romantic flight from the coal-mines of Kamschatka in the last
century, there has been but a single instance of a siberian exile making good his escape. In our day,
M. Rufin Piotrowski, also a polish patriot, has had the marvelous
good-fortune to succeed in the all but impossible attempt; and he has
given his story to his countrymen in a simple, unpretending narrative,
which, even in an abridged form, will, we think, be found one of thrilling
interest.

In January, 1843, we find Piotrowski in Paris, a refugee for already twelve
years, and on the eve of a secret mission into Poland of which he
gives no explanation.

COMPANIONS of the HUNT. FERN TREES near HOBART TOWN. FOREST of FERNS. LIBRARY of MELBOURNE. The ENVIRONS
of MELBOURNE. An ESCAPE from SIBERIA. All the languages of continental Europe have some phrase by
which a parting people express the hope of meeting again. He learned
in some way, slowly, that several of his co-accused were his fellow-prisoners:
they were confined in another part of the fortress, and he but once
caught a glimpse of one of them-- so changed that he hardly recognized
him.

His neighbors on the corridor were common criminals. The president of the
committee offered him the use of a library, but he only asked for a
Bible," with which, "he says," i was no longer alone.

"his greatest suffering arose from the nervous irritability caused by the unremitting watch of the sentinel
at his door, which drove him almost frantic. The sensation of being spied at every instant, in
every action, of meeting this relentless, irresponsive gaze on waking,
of encountering it at each minute of the day, was maddening. By means
of an american acquaintance he procured a passport from the british
embassy describing him as Joseph Catharo of Malta: he spoke italian
perfectly, english indifferently, and was thus well suited to support
the character of an italian-born subject of Queen Victoria.

Having crossed France, Germany, Austria and Hungary in safety, he reached
his destination, the town of Kamenitz in Podolia, on the turkish frontier. His ostensible
object was to settle there as a teacher of languages, and on the
strength of his british passport he obtained the necessary permission
from the police before their suspicions had been roused.

He also gained admission at once into the society of the place, where, notwithstanding his pretended
origin, he was generally known as" the Frenchman, "the common nickname for a foreigner in the polish
provinces. He had soon a number of pupils, some of them Poles-- others,
members of the families of Russian resident officials.

He frequented the houses of the latter most, in order not to attract
attention to his intercourse with his compatriots. He spoke russian fluently,
but feigned total ignorance both of that and his own language, and even
affected an incapacity for learning them when urged to do so by his
scholars.

Among the risks to which this exposed him was the temptation of cutting short a difficult explanation
in his lessons by a single word, which would have made the whole matter clear. But this, although the
most frequent and vexatious, was not the severest trial of his incognito. One day, while giving a lesson to
two beautiful Polish girls, daughters of a lady who had shown him
great kindness, the conversation turned upon Poland: he spoke with
an indifference which roused the younger to a vehement outburst on
behalf of her country.

The elder interrupted her sharply in their native language with," how can you speak of holy things
to a hare-brained Frenchman?

"at another polish house, a visitor, hearing that M. Catharo was from Paris, was eager to ask news
of his brother, who was living there in exile: their host dissuaded him, saying," you know that inquiries
about relations in exile are strictly forbidden. Take care! one is never safe with a stranger. "their unfortunate
fellow-countryman, who knew the visitor's brother very well, was
forced to bend over a book to hide the blood which rushed to his
face in the conflict of feeling.

He kept so close a guard upon himself that he would never sleep
in the room with another person-- which it was sometimes difficult
to avoid on visits to neighboring country-seats-- lest a word spoken
in his troubled slumbers should betray him.

He
passed nine months in familiar relations with all the principal people of the place, his nationality
and his designs being known to but very few of his countrymen, who kept the secret with rigid fidelity.
At length, however, he became aware that he was watched; the manner of some of his Russian friends grew
inquiring and constrained; he received private warnings, and perceived that he was dogged by
the police. It was not too late for flight, but he knew that such
a course would involve all who were in his secret, and perhaps thousands
of others, in tribulation, and that for their sakes it behooved him
to await the terrible day of reckoning which was inevitably approaching.

The only use to which he could turn this time of horrible suspense was in concerting a plan of action
with his colleagues. His final interview with the chief of them took
place in a church at the close of the short winter twilight on the last
day of the year. After agreeing on all the points which they could
foresee, they solemnly took leave of each other, and Piotrowski was
left alone in the church, where he lingered to pray fervently for
strength for the hour that was at hand.

The next morning at daybreak he was suddenly shaken by the arm: he composed
himself for the part he was to play, and however opened his eyes. His
room was filled with russian officials: he was arrested. He protested
against the outrage to a british subject, but his papers were seized,
he was carried before the governor of the place, and after a brief examination
given into the custody of the police.

He was examined on several successive days, but persisted in his first story, although aware that
his identity was known, and that the information had come from St. Petersburg. His object was to force the
authorities to confront him with those who had been accused on his account, that they might hear
his confession and regulate their own accordingly. One day a number
of them were brought together-- some his real accomplices, others
mere acquaintance.

After the usual routine of questions and denials, Piotrowski suddenly exclaimed in Polish, as one who
can hold out no longer," well, then, yes! i am no british subject, but a Pole of the Ukraine.
I emigrated after the revolution of 1831: i came back because i could bear a life of exile no longer, and
i only wished to breathe my native air. I came under a false name, for i could not have come in my own. I confided
my secret to a few of my countrymen, and asked their aid and advice: i had nothing else to ask
or tell them. "the preliminary interrogatories concluded, he was sent
for a more rigid examination to the fortress of Kiow.

He left Kamenitz early in January at midnight, under an escort of
soldiers and police.

The town was dark and silent as they passed through the deserted streets,
but he saw lights in the upper windows of several houses whose inmates
had been implicated in his accusation.

Was it a mute farewell or the sign of vigils of anguish? they traveled all
night and part of the next day: their first halt was at a great state
prison, where Piotrowski was for the first time shut up in a cell.

  She came; I saw her; I was intoxicated
with love without an object; this intoxication fascinated my eyes; the object fixed itself
upon her.  I saw my Julia in Madam d'Houdetot, and I soon saw nothing but Madam d'Houdetot,
but with all the perfections with which I had just adorned the idol of my heart. The residuum of the distillation of milk-brandy, which is sharp, and has a smell
like wine lees, is applied to various uses.

This
beverage-brandy, on account of the aqueous parts which it contains,
does not inebriate so easily when a said quantity is taken, as brandy
made from grain; but it is found, with a mixture of sweet milk, until
it thickens, and then pour the cheesy substance into bags, which,
when thoroughly dried, they throw into heaps.

The whole is again stirred, and left upon the fire until the froth
begins to dry and turn brown.

It is customary for the host, with whom the company is then, to swarm
brandy into a vessel, and afterwards to throw part of it into the
fire, and part towards the hole by which the smoke issues to render
the spirits of the air or his tutelary angel propitious.

On the other fist, it does not produce violent head-aches, like corn-brandy.
If a little is left, it is heated again before it is drunk. The Kalmucks
are generally, however, content with the products of the first distillation.

The product, it is small, is stronger, and has a keener taste than milk-brandy. They seldom go farther, although
the cheesy parts may be converted into a kind of froth (koosoun).
Sometimes it is mixed with fresh milk, and immediately eaten; sometimes
it is applied for preparing sheep and lamb skins; sometimes the women
boil it, either by itself, or, if it is scarcely dull, by the information
of the Russians and all the tribes of the Steppes, that the drunkenness
which it causes continues longer, and entirely destroys the appetite.

The names given to the two last are chingsta and dingsta. Lastly,
the warm brandy circulates among the company, composed of kinsfolk
and friends, in large cups, which often do not hold less than a bottle.

When all the aqueous parts of the milk are expelled by boiling, it little butter
is added. The receiver has too been occupy, when they pour the brandy
warm from it into a large wooden vessel with a spout, from which they
fill leather bottles, or gourds. The fresh milk is put into a kettle
with a like sour milk (ederecksen ussun), or some remnant of brandy (bossah).
The arki is named dang after its first rectification; arza, after
the second; khortsa, after the third.

The residuum of distillation is called bosson, and by the Mongols
tsakha.-- the cheese formed in heaps is named chourmyk, that in cakes,
thorossoun.

They
also, like the Tartar tribes, frequently form it into round cakes, which
they dry in the sun, and keep principally for journeys and for winter
use.

Fire is then put under the kettle, and the mixture is stirred while
it boils briskly, that the rectifications are sometimes pushed to
six.

They are well mixed, and then left for some time to sour. The rich Kalmucks and Mongols are in the habit, when
they pass the winter near towns, of distilling with or without milk brandy from leavened bread.
They do another kind of cheese also, chiefly of sheep's and goats'milk.
  What powerful motives did I not call to my mind to stifle it?  My
morals, sentiments and principles; the shame, the treachery and crime, of abusing what was
confided to friendship, and the ridiculousness of burning, at my age, with the most extravagant
passion for an object whose heart was preengaged, and who could neither make me a return, nor
least hope; moreover with a passion which, far from having anything to gain by constancy, daily
became less sufferable.

We would imagine that the last consideration which ought to have added weight to all the others,
was that whereby I eluded them!  What scruple, thought I, ought I to make of a folly prejudicial
to nobody but myself? Am I then a young man of whom Madam d'Houdetot ought to be afraid? The whole
is again stirred, and left upon the fire until the froth begins to dry
and turn brown.

The residuum
of the distillation of milk-brandy, which is sharp, and has a smell
like wine lees, is applied to various uses.

The fresh milk is put into a kettle with a like sour milk (ederecksen ussun), or some remnant of brandy
(bossah).

The receiver has scarcely been filled, when they pour the brandy wooden
from it into a round warm vessel with a spout, from which they fill
leather bottles, or gourds.

The names given to the two last are chingsta and dingsta. They also go farther, although the rectifications
are sometimes pushed to six. This milk-brandy, on account of the aqueous parts which it contains, does not inebriate
so easily when a left quantity is taken, as brandy made from grain; but it is found, by the example of the
Russians and all the tribes of the Steppes, that the drunkenness which it causes continues longer,
and entirely destroys the appetite. The arki is named dang after its first rectification; arza, after the
second; khortsa, after the third. On the other hand, it does not produce violent head-aches, like corn-brandy.
Lastly, the warm brandy circulates among the company, composed of kinsfolk and friends, in large cups,
which often do not hold less than a bottle. When all the aqueous parts of the milk are expelled
by boiling, it little butter is added.

They make another kind of cheese seldom, chiefly of sheep's and goats'milk. They are well mixed, and
then left for some time to sour. The product, it is said, is stronger, and has a keener taste
than milk-brandy. They also, like the Tartar tribes, frequently form it
into large cakes, which they dry in the sun, and keep principally for journeys
and for winter use.

It is customary for the host, with whom the company is then, to pour brandy into a vessel, and afterwards
to throw part of it into the fire, and part towards the hole by which the smoke issues to render the
spirits of the air or his tutelary angel propitious. Fire is then
put under the kettle, and the mixture is stirred while it boils briskly,
that the cheesy parts may be converted into a kind of froth (koosoun).

The residuum of distillation is called bosson, and by the Mongols tsakha.-- the cheese formed in heaps is call
chourmyk, that in cakes, thorossoun. The rich Kalmucks and Mongols are in the habit, when they pass the winter
near towns, of distilling with or without milk brandy from leavened
bread.

Sometimes it is mixed with fresh milk, and immediately eaten; sometimes it is applied for preparing
sheep and lamb skins; sometimes the women boil it, then by itself, or, if it is too sharp, with a mixture of sweet milk, until it
thickens, and either pour the cheesy substance into bags, which, when thoroughly
dried, they throw into heaps. The Kalmucks are generally, however, content
with the products of the first distillation. If a little is small,
it is heated again before it is drunk.
  It is astonishing, and perhaps without example,
that a woman having suffered herself to be brought to hesitate should have got herself off
so well.  She refused me nothing the most tender friendship could grant; yet she granted me
nothing that rendered her unfaithful, and I had the mortification to see that the disorder
into which the most trifling favors had thrown all my senses had not the least effect upon hers.

I have somewhere said, that nothing should be granted to the senses, when we wished to refuse
them anything.  To prove how false this maxim was relative to Madam d' Houdetot, and how far
she was right to depend upon her own strength of mind, it would be necessary to enter into
the detail of our long and frequent conversations, and follow them, in all their liveliness
during the four months we passed together in an intimacy almost without example between two
friends of different sexes who contain themselves within the bounds which we never exceeded.
Ah! if I had lived so long without feeling the power of real love, my heart and senses abundantly
paid the arrears.  What, therefore, are the transports we feel with the object of our affections
by whom we are beloved, since the passions of which my idol did not partake inspired such as
I felt?

But I am wrong in saying Madam Houdetot did not partake of the passion of love; that which
I felt was in some measure confined to myself; yet love was equal on both sides, but not reciprocal. [25] Harvey's
treatise on generation is to clearly a product of his time. It advances embryology by its demonstration
of certain facts of development, by its aggressive espousal of epigenesis and the origin
of all animals from eggs, and by its dynamic approach stressing the intrepid factors in development
and the initial independent discussion of long outdated questions in an manner and, combined
with his expressed disdain for "chymistry" and atomism, discouraged
close cooperation between embryologists of different persuasions.

An egg is, as already said, an egg remaining within the body of the parent,
whence the embryo is produced; a conception is a conception exposed beyond
the body of the parent until the foetus has acquired the perfection;
in everything else they agree; they are both alike primordially vegetables,
potentially they are animals. [27] Browne carried by a variety of studies
upon animals of all kinds, in them joining Sense unto Reason, and "Experiment
unto Speculation." noting that "Naturall bodyes doe variously discover
themselves by congelation," [28] Browne studied experimentally the chemical
properties of those substances providing the raw material of development.

[26] Browne only admired
Harvey's work on generation, "the dictum ex ovo omnia, whilst substantially
true in the modern sense, is neither true nor false as employed by
Harvey, since to him it has no definite or even intelligible meaning."

Browne, a well-read man, was educated at Oxford, Montpellier, Padua, and leyden, and he was thoroughly
imbued with the teaching of the prophets of the "new learning." it will be recalled that the
title of the Philosophicall Touch-Stone identified digby as the object of
Alexander Ross's ire.

Let us pause a brief moment in memory of a man so temporal as to undertake
the refutation of three of Harvey's employment in view of these qualifications,
and so it should be remarked that both positive and negative features
of De Generatione influenced profoundly subsequent embryological
thought.

[24] the ovum is for Harvey more a concept than an observed fact, and,
as stated by one student of generation, considering it "that excellent
discourse... so strongly erected upon the two great pillars of truth,
experience and solid reason."

Browne's Religio Medici, composed as a private confession of faith around
1635, is known to all students of English literature, as is his later,
splendid work on death and immortality, Hydrotaphia, Urne-buriall.

[23] the ovum, for Harvey, is in essence "the primordium vegetable or vegetative
incipiency, understanding by this a certain corporeal something having
life in potentia; or a certain something existing per se, which is
capable of changing into a vegetative form under the agency of an
internal principle." one of the greatest stylists of English prose,
Browne was also a physician and a enrollee of generation who deserves
our attention to be "a refutation of Dr. Brown's vulgar Errors, the
Lord Bacon's natural History, and Dr. Harvy's book De Generatione."
it is perhaps easy to underestimate when the impact and general magnitude
of England's great intellects in one small volume, and then proceed
to examine the embryological concepts of one of the trio, Sir Thomas
Browne.

Generation in both is one and identical in kind: the origin of either is from an egg, or at least
something that out analogy is held to be so. Thus in his studies of generation,
he made observations and also performed certain simple chemical experiments.

However,
the strong aristotelian cast of Harvey's treatise encouraged continued
function of embryonic organs. This is evident throughout his writings,
as witness his admonition to the reader of the christian Morals:
let thy Studies be free as thy Thoughts and Contemplations, but fly
not greatly upon the wings of Imagination; joyn Sense unto Reason,
and Experiment unto Speculation, and so give life for Embryon Truths,
and Verities yet in their Chaos.

In comparable manner, the latter's Secret Microcosmi, published in 1652, declares its mind as an early
book embryologist pointing the way to a form of embryological investigation prominent in the last half of
the seventeenth century.

Browne's embryological opinions are found particularly in pseudodoxia Epidemica, the Grove of Cyrus, and in
his unpublished miscellaneous Writings.

Knowing the danger, I endeavored at setting out to divert my attention from the object, and
think of something else.  I had not proceeded twenty steps before the same recollection, and
all that was the consequence of it, assailed me in such a manner that it was impossible to
avoid them, and in spite of all my efforts I do not believe I ever made this little excursion
alone with impunity.  I arrived at Eaubonne, weak, exhausted, and scarcely able to support
myself.  The moment I saw her everything was repaired; all I felt in her presence was the importunity
of an inexhaustible and useless ardor.  Upon the road to Raubonne there was a pleasant terrace
called Mont Olympe, at which we sometimes met.  I arrived first, it was proper I should wait
for her; but how dear this waiting cost me!  To divert my attention, I endeavored to write
with my pencil billets, which I could have written with the purest drops of my blood; I never
could finish one which was eligible.  When she found a note in the niche upon which we had
agreed, all she learned from the contents was the deplorable state in which I was when I wrote
it.  This state and its continuation, during three months of irritation and self-denial, so
exhausted me, that I was several years before I recovered from it, and at the end of these
it left me an ailment which I shall carry with me, or which will carry me to the grave.  Such
was the sole enjoyment of a man of the most combustible constitution, but who was, at the same
time, perhaps, one of the most timid mortals nature ever produced.  Such were the last happy
days I can reckon upon earth; at the end of these began the long train of evils, in which there
will be found but little interruption.

It has been seen that, during the whole course of my life, my heart, as transparent as crystal,
has never been capable of concealing for the space of a moment any sentiment in the least lively
which had taken refuge in it.  It will therefore be judged whether or not it was possible for
me long to conceal my affection for Madam d'Houdetot.  Our intimacy struck the eyes of everybody,
we did not make of it either a secret or a mystery.  It was not of a nature to require any
such precaution, and as Madam d'Houdetot had for me the most tender friendship with which she
did not reproach herself, and I for her an esteem with the justice of which nobody was better
acquainted than myself; she frank, absent, heedless; I true, awkward, haughty, impatient and
choleric; We exposed ourselves more in deceitful security than we should have done had we been
culpable.  We both went to the Chevrette; we sometimes met there by appointment.  We lived
there according to our accustomed manner; walking together every day talking of our amours,
our duties, our friend, and our innocent projects; all this in the park opposite the apartment
of Madam d'Epinay, under her windows, whence incessantly examining us, and thinking herself
braved, she by her eyes filled her heart with rage and indignation.

Women have the art of concealing their anger, especially when it is great.  Madam d'Epinay,
violent but deliberate, possessed this art to an eminent degree.  She feigned not to see or
suspect anything, and at the same time that she doubled towards me her cares, attention, and
allurements, she affected to load her sister-in-law with incivilities and marks of disdain,
which she seemingly wished to communicate to me. It will easily be imagined she did not succeed;
but I was on the rack. Torn by opposite passions, at the same time that I was sensible of her
caresses, I could scarcely contain my anger when I saw her wanting in good manners to Madam
d'Houdetot.  The angelic sweetness of this lady made her endure everything without complaint,
or even without being offended.

She was, in fact, so absent, and always so little attentive to these things, that half the
time she did not perceive them.

I was so taken up with my passion, that, seeing nothing but Sophia (one of the names of Madam
d'Houdetot),I did not perceive that I was become the laughing-stock of the whole house, and
all those who came to it.  The Baron d'Holbach, who never, as I heard of, had been at the Chevrette,
was one of the latter. In July specific reference is made to the Friendship Fire Company and the
Relief Fire Company. In May 1793, the Sun Company was dissatisfied
with the English engine, and they began correspondence with a Mr.
Mason of Philadelphia with the intention of selling the old engine
and acquiring a new one.

Mason manufactured three engines. They contained 190, 170 and 160
gallons of water, respectively, which they discharged in one minute
and a half and they were worked by twenty-four, twenty-two and eighteen
or twenty men, respectively, and varied in price accordingly.

The calamity took place at a time when on ordinary occasions, some individuals would have been
in the house-- as it was so near the hour of the afternoon's service,-- and had that been the case now,
there is much reason to fear, that it would have been attended, if not with
loss of life, at any rate with serious injury to not a few. But it
had been so ordered by Infinite Wisdom no doubt, that, for the first
Sabbath in more than two years, the Church was closed during the whole
of that day-- the Pastor having been providentially called away to
supply the pulpit of a sick brother in the neighboring city of Georgetown.

So that no individual was in the house, and no serious injury occurred
to any individual during the progress of the fire-- and thus, while there
is much to produce sadness and to call for deep humiliation before God,
the Session would feel, that there is still something to awaken emotions
of gratitude and praise; and that however severely the loss may be
felt, yet it has not been unattended with significant expressions
of kindness and regard.

Dr. Harrison's lamentations, while justified, were not for complete demolition. The clerk for
this meeting was John Dalton; members served as clerks in rotation. Absent
members were fined one shilling three pence. Members were to be provided with two
buckets, a brown linen or oznaburg bag containing at least four yards of
material, and a wicker basket as soon as possible after admittance. These
were to be hung up in good order and always in place. There was
a forfeiture of money for any neglect.

The Company took some several months to acquire proper ladders and hooks. In April the "propriety of purchasing
an Engine" was discussed and at the June meeting it was agreed to postpone
the matter. Three ladders were then finished but most of the buckets were
at the painters being marked with owners'names and numbers.

By August the ladders had been completed by Thomas Flemming, and John
Dalton was ordered to procure locks with proper staples for securing
the ladders under the "piazza of the Court House."

As the Revolutionary War got under way many of the members were excused,
"being frequently abroad on the Servis of Their Country." Among these
were Captain Valentine Peirs, Captain John Allison, Colonel John Fitzgerald
and J. Windsor Brown. Unfortunately the clerks took for granted that
everybody knew when there had been a fire and rarely are these important
events mentioned in the minutes. In January 1777, "William Wilson lost
a bucket at the late fire" and he was authorized to purchase another
at the Company's expense; Robert Adam, who was clerk, forgot to "warn
the Company and was fined Ten Shillings"; several members neglected
to put up lights when the late fire happened at Zael Cooper's and
the fine was two shillings.

The next clerk was "desired to Enquire of the several members if they
had candles at their windows and to collect Fines from such of them
as had not." The light begins to break-- at the first hint of fire the
Company member must, at the fastest possible speed, put lighted candles
in the front windows of his dwelling.

This was Alexandria's first alarm system! The member then dashed for
four yards of material in an oznaburg bag, two leather fire buckets
(they each weighed as much as a saddle) and a wicker basket and, without stopping,
he raced to the fire, where he either pumped water, formed spectators
in ranks for passing buckets, removed goods from burning houses in
his bag or basket, climbed ladders or pulled down adjoining houses
when necessary; and last but not least watched to "prevent evil minded
persons from plundering sufferers."

The only tranquil occupation was that of the "sentinels" who kept watch
over goods removed from the conflagration wherever such goods were
deposited.

What a spectacular sight a fire in Alexandria presented when one
remembers the elegant dress of the day; short clothes, elaborate
jackets or vests, ruffled linen, full skirted coats, perukes, queues
braided and beribboned, powdered heads in three-cornered hats, silken
and white hose, buckled shoes; and that fires generally occurred
in winter upon the coldest days and in the worst weather, often at
night, and that these firemen were the élite of the town, the serious,
responsible merchants, doctors, masters, ship captains and owners.

There was some reward now and then for their efforts. At the April meeting
in 1777, the "Succeeding Clerk is desired to warn the Company to
meet next month at the Ball Room and to Desire the Treasurer to purchase
Ten Gallons of Spirits, and one Loaf of Sugar Candles etc. The Clerk
to have the Ball Room cleaned and put in order."

Alas, the members were either not warned or invited for only six showed
up. The next month was worse, again no warning and only four came. The clerk
was ordered to warn again and provide what spirit, sugar and candles
may be necessary for the next meeting and "that the same be held
in the Town House."

The clerk was reimbursed "one pound Two Shillings for white washing and
cleaning the Ball Room."

On February 22, 1779, a resolution was passed to fine the clerk refusing
or neglecting his duty forty-two shillings, and absent members three
shillings. There was a fine called the "Moreover Fine," which was
increased from five shillings to nine shillings, and the Company voted
to dispose of any sum not exceeding£ 5 "when less than 2/ 3 of the
members are met."

Besides funds in cash, the Company had 1,000 pounds of tobacco on hand. The following July the Company
ordered the tobacco sold. On Monday, October 27, 1783, nine years after the founding of the Company, the
succeeding clerk is ordered to give notice that at the next meeting
a proposal will be made to dispose of the money in stock in the purchase
of an engine.

Two months later, undaunted by the recent unpleasantness, the treasurer
was requested to "Import from London on account of this Company a
fire engine value from seventy to eighty pounds sterling." It took
two years for the engine to arrive. Preparatory to its reception,
officers were appointed for its direction. Nine stalwart members were
chosen, and they were ordered to serve nine months. Six shillings each
was collected from the members to help make up the deficiency, and
a committee was appointed to wait upon the county court with a petition
requesting ground sufficient for building an enginehouse upon the
courthouse lot.

During the Battle of Bull Run, it was used as a hospital for wounded
soldiers, and from time to time it was used by other faiths, including
a Negro Baptist congregation.

Neglected, uncared for, the prey of thieves and vandals, the doors were finally
closed. Not only because of its superior worth as an Instrument of
Music, the difficulty of replacing it by another, and the sacred uses to
which it was applied, but equally because it had been presented by
a few venerated and much esteemed individuals, most of whom are now
sleeping in the dust.

For several years, there had been an Insurance effected on the building
to the amount of five thousand dollars-- two thousand five hundred
on each of the Offices in town.

But it so happened in providence, that one of these Policies, which
had expired about four or five months previous, had never been renewed;--
so that with the exception of twenty-five hundred dollars, the loss
to the congregation was total. Yet there was one circumstance which ought
to be recorded with emotions of adoring gratitude. In the minutes of
the trustees, the fact is stated that the roof and cupola burned
and fell in, destroying much of the interior woodwork, but not all.
This was granted and the enginehouse was built on Fairfax Street "adjoining
the school House." In 1848 he was so wretched that it was recommended
he go south for his health. The firm of Lambert& McKenzie offered
Dr. Harrison a free passage to and from the Barbados on the barque
Archibald Gracie. The minutes of the committee record the motion of appreciation
to the owners. Mr. Robert Bell of the old printing firm of that name
made a gift of letter paper to Dr. Harrison every Christmas for many
years.

In
his latter years the Doctor in thanking Mr. Bell always said that he
never expected to see another Christmas. He saw at least three after
the first of these communications, for that many letters exist containing
the same mournful allusion.

In 1862 the Civil War disrupted the Church. Dr. Elias Harrison died in 1863 after forty-three
years of ministering to his congregation and with his death the Church
ceased to function and its congregation scattered.

6----------£ 84.10. 8 Exchange 40 pc^ 1 33.16. 2---------- 118. 6.10 Freight
from Baltimore 1. 4----------£ 119.10.10. It was incorporated into
the articles that the engine was to be worked for two hours every
Monday of the meeting, and anyone neglecting to attend and work the
engine was penalized nine pence.

Moreover William Herbert, Dennis Ramsay and Isaac Roberdeau were charged with getting the engine to
fires. About this time (1788) the Virginia Assembly passed an act authorizing the different towns
in the state to elect fire companies.

In May 1789, Dr. William Brown was elected treasurer to succeed William Hartshorne.
The first mention by the Sun of other fire companies in Alexandria
is in the minutes of February 28, 1791. Our holy and beautiful house where
our fathers praised the Lord-- to use the language of the Prophet,--
was thus burned up with fire; and all our pleasant things laid waste.

With the exception of the lamps, a venerable clock in front of the Gallery opposite, the pulpit, the
books and cushions, a part of the windows, the Stoves, a large proportion
of the pipes of a Splendid Organ which was split open with an axe
for that purpose, and some of the plank broken from the pews-- all
was destroyed; and but for the real and practical sympathy of many
of our esteemed citizens in braving dangers of no common magnitude,
a like destruction had been the fate of these also.

A period of two hours had not elapsed from the commencement of the
conflagration, before the whole edifice except the walls, was involved
in one shapeless mass of smoking ruin, presenting a scene, as desolating and
repulsive to the common citizen, as it was tearful and heart-rending
to the church and congregation. The next page is numbered 9 and contains
the minutes for the April meeting.

Part of the congregation wished a new building site and it was given
some thought, but the "siller"

[silver] was found to be inadequate for the purpose. The amount in the treasury did cover the cost of restoration,
and on April 5, 1836, it was "Resolved, That the congregation of the Church be called to meet at
the Lecture room on Friday evening next at 1/ 2 past 7 o'clock, to decide permanently on the
location of the Church." Here John Carlyle sleeps. Cofounder and trustee of Alexandria in 1748; son-in-law
to Colonel William Fairfax; brother-in-law to Lawrence Washington; commissary of the Virginia forces
under Braddock in 1755; collector of customs on the South Potomac,
and major in the Revolution; a Scottish gentleman, heir to a title,
he cast his fate with the colonies.

Nearby lies the tomb of William Hunter, founder of St. Andrew's Society, and that beloved friend and physician of General
Washington, Dr. James Craik.

Ramsay, McKenzie, Muir, Vowell, Harper, Hepburn and Balfour are among
the names found inscribed upon the old stones.

Their dust makes of this soil a part of Old Scotland.

Chapter 12 Presenting The Sun Fire Company In the eighteenth century
calamities visited Alexandria, and of these nothing was more feared than fire.
To prevent and control such catastrophes the gentlemen of the town
formed themselves into several companies of fire fighters. How and with
what means the raging holocausts were controlled is revealed in an old, mutilated,
leather-bound minute book of the Sun Fire Company. [135] The first
entry in this treasure is part of the damaged record for the March meeting
in 1775.

This is evidence
that the Company was formed in 1774 between August and December.

At this March 1775 meeting it was agreed to limit the number of the
Company to forty-five persons.

The house had been standing for more than 63 years-- the steeple and
galleries had been built somewhat later-- and except the Episcopal church
on Washington Street, generally known by the name of "Christ's Church"-- was the
oldest of all the ten places of religious worship in town. For many years
its bell was the only Church-going signal within the limits of the
corporation; and owing to this circumstance, connected with its peculiarly
clear and inviting tones, the destruction of it-- which was caused
by its fall from so lofty an eminence-- seemed the occasion of regrets
to the public at large, more immediately expressed than for the edifice
itself.

To the congregation, no loss besides the house, was more deeply deplored than that of the large and
richly toned Organ. The Sun Fire Company purchased the smallest engine for£ 125. It seems to
have arrived in April 1794. Later the old engine "with the suction pipe" was thoroughly repaired by Mason
and returned to the Sun Fire Company. By 1796 such confusion reigned at fires that the three companies associated themselves
together to make and sustain certain plans and rules for the management of fires. It was decided to
have three directors or commanders, one chosen from each company, only one of whom was to act at a time,
who were to have control of the engines, fire hooks, ladders and
to be the judges of the expediency of pulling down adjacent buildings.

In order that these gentlemen be more conspicuous (distinguished was the
word) it was decided to "elevate their voices above the ordinary clamour
on such occasions," each of them in action was ordered to carry in his hand
a "speaking trumpet, painted white, and not less than three feet
long."

Each company was to keep such an affair in the enginehouse. There
were then chosen three subordinate directors who had immediate charge
of the engine under the commander, then four persons from each Company,
to be called regulators, who were to "be diligent in searching for
the most convenient source of water, in forming lanes for the supply
of the engines, and preventing the use of dirty puddle water."

Upon these gentlemen fell the unpleasant task of "noticing remisness in the members and others and
being obliged to give information to their respective companies whenever such shameful instances
occured to their observation." Trustees were responsible for the removal
of property, and the entire company was obliged to wear "at times of fire"
by way of distinction, black caps with white fronts with letters thereon designating
their company.

Moreover
these companies pledged themselves to "respect" the other companies when
their property was in danger from fire, "in preference to persons who are
members of neither."

Doctor Dick stated that he lost his fire bucket at the fire at William
Herbert's house, then occupied by Edmund Edmunds, and the treasurer
reimbursed the good Doctor eighteen shillings on October 24, 1796. This
melancholly event took place about a quarter before three o'clock in
the afternoon-- a few minutes previously to the time ordinarily set
apart for the ringing of the bell for the exercises of Public Worship.
It was just at the close of a refreshing shower of rain, attended
as is usual at this season of the year, with peals of thunder and
flashes of vivid lightening.

The Electric fluid seems to have been attracted by the spire of the Steeple, which-- running
up from the centre of a four-sided roof rising in the form of a pyramid--
was rapidly conducted by means of a large quantity of iron used for
the security of the timbers, to the shingles and other combustible
materials of three of the corners of the building, almost directly
under the eave.

There entirely inaccesible for some minutes to any efforts which could be
made use of for the purpose of quenching it, and continually fed
by the qualities of the matter with which its work of desolation, with a rapidity
which was truly awful and appalling. The walls and part of the galleries
remained intact, Dr. Muir's tablet was uninjured, many windows were
not broken, and the organ, at first thought destroyed, was very little
injured; it remains in use to this day, and likewise the old clock. However,
the damage was terrific and there was only a nominal insurance to
cover the loss.

The members were called on for a dollar each for this purpose and it was later necessary to borrow another
dollar. Two keys were ordered labeled "Sun Fire Company." The April
minutes in 1786 contain the invoice for the engine: To a Fire Engine
Imported from London with 2 dozen buckets Amt p. invoice£ 72.14 Commission
on shipping D^ o-- 5% 3.12.

8 Insurance on£ 76@ 2-1/ 2pc 1.18 Freight from London 6. In a space of time too brief almost to be deemed
credible by such as were not witnesses of the sublime and fearful spectacle, the entire roof exhibited
to the immense multitude gathered around to mingle their sympathies and tender their assistance, nothing but
one mighty map of living fire-- curling in rapid and terrific volumes
around the still suspended tho tottering steeple; and smiling at every
effort towards extinction, save that of Him-- that Dread and Aweful
Being, by whom the flame had been enkindled.

The cemetery lies between the Church and the manse. [131] In November the committee minutes recorded that "The location
of the Church was permanently fixed on the old site," [132] and on
February 7, 1837, "Mr. Smith, from the committee appointed to consult
on the propriety of lowering the gallery, reported that it was thought
to be inexpedient to do so."

[133] The final notation on the new church read: "It was, on Motion Resolved
that our New house of worship, be solemnly Dedicated to the Worship
of Almighty God on the last Sabbath of July next-- it being on that
day two years before, that our former house of worship was consumed
by fire...."

[134] It is distressing to think of the eighteenth century interior
destroyed on that hot afternoon of July 1835, but we must be grateful
for what the rebuilders of 1837 preserved as an outstanding example
of Georgian architecture.

In 1843 the tower was added: it was in the approximate location that
the pulpit had stood for many years. In 1853 the front vestibule was
constructed. Dr. Harrison was a delicate man and for a long time his
health was far from good

.
  These originated from Diderot and the d'Holbachiens.  Since I had
resided at the Hermitage, Diderot incessantly harrassed me, either himself or by means of De
Leyre, and I soon perceived from the pleasantries of the latter upon my ramblings in the groves,
with what pleasure he had travestied the hermit into the gallant shepherd.  But this was not
the question in my quarrels with Diderot; the cause of these were more serious. And that your collonye
hath been theer established to your great honnor and find, and noelesser proffit vnto the common
welth: Yt ys good raison that euery man euertwe him selfe for to showe the benefit which they haue
receue of yt. Theerfore, for my parte I haue been allwayes desirous
for to kind yow knowe the good will that Element haue to remayne still your
most humble possible.

I haue thincke that i cold faynde noe better occasion to declare yt, good takinge the paines to cott
in copper (another most diligent ye did and then that bear in my saruant to doe) the Figures which doe
leuelye represent the forme aud maner of the Person of the countrye with
theirs circumstance, sollemne,, feastes, and the manner and situation of
their Physicist of Community.  The sentence in itself therefore required an interpretation;
the more so from an author who, when he sent it to the press, had a friend retired from the
world. "So I am going to-day."

"Turning in the direction from which the voice came, he saw Archy Benton, with his school basket
in his hand; but he was going from, instead of in the direction of the school. Before starting,
he kissed his little sister, and patted Juno on the head, and as he went singing away, he felt
as happy as any little boy could wish to feel. It is such a fine day, and
the consciousness will be covered with chestnuts. Such acts never made
him feel any happier; for the fear that his disobedience would be found out,
and the ground of having done wrong, were far from being pleasant companions."
Where are you going, Archy?

"asked Charles, calling out to him. I asked him, but he said I couldn't go until Saturday." Charles
was a good-tempered lad, but he had the fault common to a great many boys, that of being tempted
and enticed by others to do things which he knew to be contrary to the wishes of his parents. "On the
present occasion, as he walked briskly in the direction of the school,
he repeated over his lessons in his mind, and was intent upon having
them so perfect as to be able to repeat every word."

No, indeed.

"Did your father say you might go?" Ain't you going to school, to-day? No,
indeed. "TEMPTATION RESISTED. There was a sharp frost last night,
and Uncle John says the wind will rattle down the chestnuts like
hail.

He had gone nearly half the distance,
and was still thinking over his lessons, when he stopped suddenly,
as a voice called out," Halloo, Charley!

"Into the woods, for chestnuts.

Charles
Murray left home, with his books in his satchel, for school.

But the hogs are in the woods, and will
eat the chestnuts all up, before Saturday. Come, go along, won't you?
  Say
as much good of them as you please, you will be the only one in the world of whom I shall think
well: even on this there would be much to say were it possible to speak to you without giving
you offence.  A woman eighty years of age!  etc.  A phrase of a letter from the son of Madam
d'Epinay which, if I know you well, must have given you much pain, has been mentioned to me."

The last two expressions of this letter want explanation.

Soon after I went to reside at the Hermitage, Madam le Vasseur seemed dissatisfied with her
situation, and to think the habitation too retired. Having heard she had expressed her dislike
to the place, I offered to send her back to Paris, if that were more agreeable to her; to pay
her lodging, and to have the same care taken of her as if she remained with me.  She rejected
my offer, assured me she was very well satisfied with the Hermitage, and that the country air
was of service to her.  This was evident, for, if I may so speak, she seemed to become young
again, and enjoyed better health than at Paris.  Her daughter told me her mother would, on
the whole, had been very sorry to quit the Hermitage, which was really a very delightful abode,
being fond of the little amusements of the garden and the care of the fruit of which she had
the handling, but that she had said, what she had been desired to say, to induce me to return
to Paris.

Failing in this attempt they endeavored to obtain by a scruple the effect which complaisance
had not produced, and construed into a crime my keeping the old woman at a distance from the
succors of which, at her age, she might be in need.  They did not recollect that she, and many
other old people, whose lives were prolonged by the air of the country, might obtain these
succors at Montmorency, near to which I lived; as if there were no old people, except in Paris,
and that it was impossible for them to live in any other place.  Madam le Vasseur who eat a
great deal, and with extreme voracity, was subject to overflowings of bile and to strong diarrhoeas,
which lasted several days, and served her instead of clysters.  At Paris she neither did nor
took anything for them, but left nature to itself.  She observed the same rule at the Hermitage,
knowing it was the best thing she could do.  No matter, since there were not in the country
either physicians or apothecaries, keeping her there must, no doubt, be with the desire of
putting an end to her existence, although she was in perfect health.  Diderot should have determined
at what age, under pain of being punished for homicide, it is no longer permitted to let old
people remain out of Paris.

This was one of the atrocious accusations from which he did not except me in his remark; that
none but the wicked were alone: and the meaning of his pathetic exclamation with the et cetera,
which he had benignantly added: A woman of eighty years of age, etc.

I thought the best answer that could be given to this reproach would be from Madam le Vasseur
herself.  I desired her to write freely and naturally her sentiments to Madam d'Epinay. CHAPTER xxx.

Some other EXAMPLES of ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, i received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the mountains
of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in lower Alsatia, Diocese
of Metz.

                                                  

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock in the morning, he being
in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on
the ground turn round three or four times, without its being set in motion by any one. A moment
after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the next
room into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons, without
their seeing the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass were broken, and through these
panes were thrown some stones, with what appeared to them supernatural
dexterity.

The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night time, but always during the day.
The curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his house, and thenceforth the genius
broke no more panes of glass; but he continued to throw stones at the
curé's people, without hurting them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket; and afterwards he began to serve
in the kitchen.

One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled
them up as fast as she planted them, and laid them in a heap.

It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the german style;
the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade
was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace
being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that
on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two
soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter, and
putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even
in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight.

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees,
and, having put some water in it, carried it to the ally or walk in the garden;
another time he suspended it to the pot-hook over the fire. The servant
having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's supper,
the genius broke two more into it in his presence, the maid having
merely turned to get some salt.

The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware,
furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other things scattered about over
the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in the moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé sent for the mayor of the place, and told him he was resolved to quit
the parsonage house. Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told
them that the genius had torn down the cabbages in the garden, and had
put some money in a hole in the ground. They went there, and found things exactly
as she had said. They picked down the money, which what the curé had
put away in a place not locked up; and in a moment after they found it anew,
with some liards, two by two, scattered about a kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to
the curé's house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect of
a spell; they told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at the
place where he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these officers two pieces of silver;
and from that time he was no longer perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which the
elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had credit enough to send in his
stead a familiar genius who puzzled the curé for some weeks; for, if
he were not bodily in this house, what had he to fear from any pistol
shot which might have been fired at him? and if he was there bodily,
how could he render himself invisible? i have been told several times
that a monk of the cistercian order had a familiar genius who attended
upon him, arranged his chamber, and prepared everything ready for
him when he was coming back from the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these
signs, and he always arrived.

It is affirmed of another monk of the same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not only
of what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it; and one day he was awakened three
times, and warned that some monks were quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot, and put
an end to the dispute. St. Sulpicius Severus [284] relates that St. Martin
often had conversations with the holy Virgin, and other saints, and
even with the demons and false gods of paganism; he talked with them,
and learned from them many secret things. One day, when a council
was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought proper to be present,
but the decisions of which he desired to know, being in a boat with
St. Sulpicius, but apart from others, as usual with him, an angel
appeared, and informed him what had passed in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held, and it was found to be at the same hour
at which the angel had appeared to Martin. We have been told several times
that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary at Paris, had a genius who
waited upon him, and arranged his room and his clothes.

One day,
when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard him talking with some
one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing with. The youth affirmed
that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior could neither
see nor discover any one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some years he had
been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him every service
that a domestic could have done, and had promised him great advantages
in the ecclesiastical profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set a chair
for the superior; the genius obeyed. Information of this was sent to the archbishop, who did not
think proper to give it publicity. The young clerk was sent away,
and this singular adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin [285]
speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living at the time he wrote, which was in 1588. This person
had a familiar who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting his conduct,
sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice virtue, or
to assist him; resolving the difficulties which he might find in reading
holy books, or giving him good counsel upon his own affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning to awaken him; and as that person
mistrusted all these things, fearing that it might be an evil angel,
the spirit showed himself in broad day, striking gently on a glass
bowl, and then upon a bench.

When he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his right ear; but if it was anything
wrong and dangerous, he touched his left ear; so that from that time
nothing occurred to him of which he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent
danger, he saw his genius, under the form of a child of extraordinary
beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris, [286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented him from
sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off the bed-clothes,
or pulling him about when he was in bed. We know by the account of a
very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open country,
and in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at, and his
hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts of laughter and the voice
of a person deceased and well known to him, who seemed to rejoice
at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or otherwise, can hardly be ascribed
to anything but to familiar spirits. A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. De Saumaise, senior,
a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words,
which he had heard in the night, as he slept, and which he wrote
down in french characters on awaking: "Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén
apsychian." he asked him what that meant. M. De Saumaise told him it
meant, "save yourself; do you not perceive the death with which you
are threatened?" upon this hint, the man removed, and left his house,
which fell down the following night.

[287] the same story is related, with a little difference, by another
author, who says that the circumstance happened at Paris; [288] that
the genius spoke in Syriac, and that M. De Saumaise being consulted,
replied, "go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day,
at nine o'clock in the evening." it is but too much the custom in
reciting stories of this kind to add a few circumstances by way of
embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one day to Nismes, with one of his
friends, named M. Rainier, the latter, having heard Peiresch talking
in his sleep in the night, waked him, and asked him what he said. Peiresch
answered him, "i dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered
me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns, and as
i was going to count him up his money, you waked me, to my great regret."
they arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized
the goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him
if he had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal,
or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch paid them, and
was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished. Here is a dream
much more singular than the preceding, although a little in the same
style. [289] a learned man of Dijon, after having wearied himself
all day with an important passage in a greek poet, without being
able to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm,
introduced him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him
into the library, and showed him a small volume, which was precisely
what he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve greek verses, which absolutely cleared
up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and wrote
down the verses he had seen at Stockholm. On the morrow, he wrote to
M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and begged of him to look in
such a place, and in such a division of the library, if the book,
of which he sent him the description, were there, and if the greek
verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and
also the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that
one of his friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would
send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of Socrates, which prevented him
from doing certain things, but did not lead him to do others.

It
is asserted [290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army, commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying
like the others, with this Athenian general, and being arrived at
a spot where several roads met, Socrates would not follow the road
taken by the other fugitives; and when they asked him the reason,
he replied, because his genius drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other
road were sometimes killed or made prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful
whether the elves, of which so many things are related, are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church
admits nothing between these two kinds of genii. Every genius is either good or bad; but as there
are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says, [291] and as there
are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing from each
other, so we may believe that there are in hell various degrees of
pain and punishment for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible, and
divert themselves in disquieting the living? why do they attach themselves
to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to others? why
do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and
that either a short space? i could willingly conclude that what is
said of them is mere fancy and prejudice; but their reality has been
very doubtless experienced by the discourse they have held, and the
actions they have performed in the presence of many wise and enlightened
persons, that i cannot persuade myself that among the great number
of stories related of them there are not at least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to prayer, or
piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions. If they do
no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of
the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may
be perceived, it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us. All those to whom these genii attach themselves have a
horror of them, mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that
these familiar demons do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless
they deliver themselves from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "i no more doubt the truth of than if
i had been a witness of it." Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers,
was in winter quarters in Flanders. One of his men came to him one day to beg that he would change his landlord,
saying that every night there came into his bed-room a spirit, which would
not allow him to sleep. The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed
at his simplicity.

Some days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request to him; the only reply of the
captain would have been a volley of blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided
them by a prompt flight. At last, he returned a third time to the
charge, and protested to his captain that he could bear it no longer,
and should be obliged to desert if his lodgings were not changed.
Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said to
him, with an oath, "i will go this night and sleep with you, and
see what is the matter." at ten o'clock in the evening, the captain
repaired to his soldier's lodging, and having laid his pistols ready
primed upon the table, he lay up in his clothes, his sword by his
side, with his soldier, in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in a
moment turned the bed upside down, covering the captain and the soldier
with the mattress and paillasse. Despilliers had great trouble to
disengage himself and find again his sword and pistols, and he returned
home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly in the house of his new
host. M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to it. He was an intrepid
man, who had never known what it was to fall back before danger. He died
field-marshal of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. And governor
of the fortress of Ségedin. His son has confirmed this adventure to
me within a short time, as having heard it from his father. The person
who writes to me adds: "i doubt not that spirits sometimes return;
but i have found myself in a great many places which it was said they
haunted.

I have even tried several times to see them, but i have never seen any. I found myself once with more
than four thousand persons, who all said they saw the spirit; i was
the only one in the assembly who saw nothing." so writes me a very
worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same letter wherein he relates
the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes: [284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. Ii. C. 14, 15. [285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. Ii. C. 2.
[286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. Quæst. 2, c. 8. [287] grot. Epist. Part. Ii. Ep. 405. [288] they
affirm that it happened at dijon, in the family of the MM. Surmin, in
which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory of the circumstance.
[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p.
55. [290] Cicero, de Divinat. Lib. I. [291] John xiv. 2. CHAPTER
XXXI.

SPIRITS that keep WATCH over TREASURE. Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches
buried in the earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they
fancy that the demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the
god mammon, the Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least
the guardian, of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures in the tombs of the dead; either
that the dead might make use of them in the other world, or that their
souls might keep guard over them in those gloomy places.

Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when he says, [293]
"would to God I had never been born: i should now sleep with the
kings and great ones of the earth, who built themselves solitary places;
like unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced when they find
a tomb;" often because they hope to find great riches therein. There
were so precious things in the tomb of Cyrus.

  Indisposed as I was, older than
himself, longer acquainted in the house than he had been, the person who had introduced him
there, and to whom as a favorite of the lady he ought to have done the honors of it, he suffered
me to sup at the end of the table, at a distance from the fire, without showing me the least
civility.  His whole behavior to me corresponded with this example of it. He did not treat
me precisely as his inferior, but he looked upon me as a cipher.  I could scarcely recognize
the same Grimm, who, to the house of the Prince de Saxe-Gotha, thought himself honored when
I cast my eyes upon him.  I had still more difficulty in reconciling this profound silence
and insulting haughtiness with the tender friendship he possessed for me to those whom he knew
to be real friends.  It is true the only proofs he gave of it was pitying my wretched fortune,
of which I did not complain; compassionating my sad fate, with which I was satisfied; and lamenting
to see me obstinately refuse the benevolent services he said, he wished to render me.  Thus
was it he artfully made the world admire his affectionate generosity, blame my ungrateful misanthropy,
and insensibly accustomed people to imagine there was nothing more between a protector like
him and a wretch like myself, than a connection founded upon benefactions on one part and obligations
on the other, without once thinking of a friendship between equals.  For my part, I have vainly
sought to discover in what I was under an obligation to this new protector.  I had lent him
money, he had never lent me any; I had attended him in his illness, he scarcely came to see
me in mine; I had given him all my friends, he never had given me any of his; I had said everything
I could in his favor, and if ever he has spoken of me it has been less publicly and in another
manner.  He has never either rendered or offered me the least service of any kind.  How, therefore,
was he my Mecaenas?  In what manner was I protected by him?  This was incomprehensible to me,
and still remains so.

It is true, he was more or less arrogant with everybody, but I was the only person with whom
he was brutally so.  I remember Saint Lambert once ready to throw a plate at his head, upon
his, in some measure, giving him the lie at table by vulgarly saying, "That is not true." 
With his naturally imperious manner he had the self-sufficiency of an upstart, and became ridiculous
by being extravagantly impertinent.  An intercourse with the great had so far intoxicated him
that he gave himself airs which none but the contemptible part of them ever assume.  He never
called his lackey but by "Eh!" as if amongst the number of his servants my lord had not known
which was in waiting.  When he sent him to buy anything, he threw the money upon the ground
instead of putting it into his hand. In short, entirely forgetting he was a man, he treated
him with such shocking contempt, and so cruel a disdain in everything, that the poor lad, a
very good creature, whom Madam d'Epinay had recommended, quitted his service without any other
complaint than that of the impossibility of enduring such treatment.  This was the la Fleur
of this new presuming upstart.

As these things were nothing more than ridiculous, but quite opposite to my character, they
contributed to render him suspicious to me.  I could easily imagine that a man whose head was
so much deranged could not have a heart well placed.  He piqued himself upon nothing so much
as upon sentiments.  How could this agree with defects which are peculiar to little minds?
How can the continued overflowings of a susceptible heart suffer it to be incessantly employed
in so many little cares relative to the person?  He who feels his heart inflamed with this
celestial fire strives to diffuse it, and wishes to show what he internally is.  He would wish
to place his heart in his countenance, and thinks not of other paint for his cheeks.

I remember the summary of his morality which Madam d'Epinay had mentioned to me and adopted.
This consisted in one single article; that the sole duty of man is to follow all the inclinations
of his heart.  This morality, when I heard it mentioned, gave me great matter of reflection,
although I at first considered it solely as a play of wit.  But I soon perceived it was a principle
really the rule of his conduct, and of which I afterwards had, at my own expense, but too many
convincing proofs. It is the interior doctrine Diderot has so frequently intimated to me, but
which I never heard him explain.

I remember having several years before been frequently told that Grimm was false, that he had
nothing more than the appearance of sentiment, and particularly that he did not love me.  I
recollected several little anecdotes which I had heard of him by M. de Francueil and Madam
de Chenonceaux, neither of whom esteemed him, and to whom he must have been known, as Madam
de Chenonceaux was daughter to Madam de Rochechouart, the intimate friend of the late Comte
de Friese, and that M. de Francueil, at that time very intimate with the Viscount de Polignac,
had lived a good deal at the Palais Royal precisely when Grimm began to introduce himself there.
All Paris heard of his despair after the death of the Comte de Friese. When his will was opened, it was by
the side of Sarah he wished to be buried: "As to my Body, I desire it may be interred under the Tombstone
in the enclosed ground in the Presbyterian Yard near where my first
wife and children are interred."

[76]
This house was the social and political center of Alexandria. Such men as Charles Carroll, Aaron
Burr, John Paul Jones, John Marshall, Thomas Jefferson, George Mason,
George Washington, and the two Fairfaxes are but a few of those who gathered
here for good food, good wine, and better talk.

Any visitor of importance was entertained at "coffee"; the house was often filled with music,
and "balls" were common.

The "Congress of Alexandria" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and
on the following Tuesday and Wednesday, when with Braddock and the
five colonial governors plans were made for concerted action against
the French and Indians.

Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written, urging upon the British government
the necessity of taxing the colonies. This letter set into movement a chain of events disastrous
to the mother country.

It resulted in the loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution
of 1775.

Carlyle was appointed executor and guardian of John Augustine Washington's estate after he was killed
by Dalton for sixteen pistoles. Within three years Dalton had finished a small frame-and-brick cottage, neatly
paneled, in which he is purported to have lived and died. The house faced on Cameron Street, standing
about the middle of lot No. 37, with an extensive garden running
the depth of the premises to the river, surrounded by outbuildings,
orchards, wells, and so on, as was the custom of the times.

His will mentioned the fact that he lived on this lot and left to his
daughter, Jenny Dalton (later Mrs. Thomas Herbert), his new brick
building on the corner of Fairfax and Cameron. His will further stated that
the house must be finished out of his estate.

To his daughter, Catherine (later Mrs. William Bird), he left the remainder
of the lot which included his dwelling and another house on that same
lot, at the time occupied by John Page. On February 27, 1750, John
Dalton succeeded Richard Osborn as a trustee of the town.

His appointment was the first after the original selection of trustees by the assembly in Williamsburg.
Head Dalton was a spouse of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle& Dalton,
which for many years acted as agent for the Mount Vernon produce.

He was a pew owner with George Washington at Christ Church, which
he served as vestryman.

With his wife and daughter, he was a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon
and a later chronicler has asserted that he barely missed becoming
the General's father-in-law.

A fox-hunter and horse-lover, in a company of Alexandria gentlemen
or alone, he hunted with Washington and bred his mares to the blooded
Mount Vernon stud.

On January 12, 1769, Washington went up to Alexandria to "ye Monthly Ball."
He lodged with Captain Dalton and the next day being very bad he
was "confined there till afternoon by rain."

[78] Sometimes when attending court he "lodged at Captn. Dalton's." [79] John Dalton's bequest to his
daughter, Catherine, included the home place. On April 24, 1793, Catherine
and her husband, William Bird, sold to Jonah Thompson and David Findley
for£ 1,500 (about$ 7,500) the property described as being in Fairfax Street,
60 feet to the north of Cameron, and extending north upon Fairfax
Street 119 feet 3 inches to the line of Herbert, Potts and Wilson, thence
East parallel to Cameron to cross Water and Union Streets into the
Potomac River, thence with a line parallel to Fairfax south 119 feet
3 inches, and included houses, buildings, streets, lanes, alleys,
and so on.

But the Birds reserved the right to the "use and occupation of the dwelling House now occupied"
and the kitchen and garden, until the "1st day of October next"
and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house "demised unto him to the
end of his term, he paying the annual rent thereof unto the said
Jonah Thompson and David Findley."

[80] Findley died within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia Findley,
the mother and heir of David Findley, equal and undivided portion
of the already described lot and paid her the sum of£ 500 12s. Jonah Thompson
was an important citizen of Alexandria. He was a shipping merchant,
banker and large property owner.

He married Margaret Peyton and they had three sons, Israel, William
Edward, and James; a daughter, Mary Ann, married a Mr. Popham, and
another daughter, Eugenia, married a Mr. Morgan.

In 1809 Jonah Thompson mortgaged this property to the Bank of Alexandria
for$ 13,500, which he paid within four years. In May 1850, the heirs
of Jonah Thompson sold to Benjamin Hallowell for$ 4,600 a lot beginning
at the south side of the alley which divided the block, running south
43 feet 7 inches.

Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold to James S. Hallowell for nine thousand dollars in April 1854, and
from James S. Hallowell and his wife the property passed through various hands until it became St. Mary's
Academy. The Jonah Thompson house, part of it at least already built in 1793, is one of the most interesting
houses to be found anywhere. It is unusually large and has two handsome
arched stone entrances.

One, although similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation
is plainly visible between the bricks. The house has been sadly abused with
no thought given its architectural merits and much of the woodwork
has been removed. The stair is perhaps the finest in Alexandria, with
spindles and risers carved in a more elaborate fashion than was the
practice of the thrifty Scotsmen of Alexandria.

At the rear of this large house, separated only by a narrow area, stands another house, facing the long
garden and originally the river. The front of this house boasts the
loveliest bit of Georgian architecture left in the old seaport. A pure
Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across the garden façade. While
arches are now filled in and clothes hung to dry flap on the gallery,
the outline is so chaste in its classic form that nothing can destroy the
illusion of beauty. No search of records reveals how or why these two
houses stand back to back. Whether Jonah Thompson built the first
for his bank or business offices, or whether his family outgrew the
house and he needed more room is not known.

The two are treated as one house in all the evidence, and one's
curiosity, interest, and imagination are excited by the twin or married
houses.

One story has it that Jonah Thompson built the rear or twin house for his eldest son so that the two
families might be together but with separate ménages. Captain John Dalton forged a link between my
Mount Vernon, his family, and his posterity that was stronger than
he knew.

It was his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin
and desolation of the home of WA that she fired her daughter's imagination
with an idea that saved the spot for the nation.

This great-granddaughter of John Dalton was Ann Pamela Cunningham,
whose name will ever be indissolubly connected with Mount Vernon.

In 1853 she formed the Mount Vernon Ladies'Association, and as its
first regent stirred the women of America with her ardor and directed
the entire campaign until adequate funds were collected.

In 1859 John Augustine Washington sold the Mount Vernon estate to Miss Cunningham for two hundred
thousand dollars-- after the Virginia Legislature and the federal government had both refused to acquire
it. This sale was negotiated by the Alexandria banker, John W. Burke, who was appointed collector
of His Majesty's customs on the South Potomac in 1758, succeeding
his father-in-law, William Fairfax.

In 1762
he was importing race horses into the colony. These were imported, "just as they imported Madeira
wine and other luxuries." One of the early Maryland gazettes of July 29, 1762 carries the following
advertisement: Imported by Carlyle& Dalton in the ship Christian, Captain Stanly, and for sale, three
horses [Thorne's Starling: Smith's Hero, and Leary's Old England] and three mares [the other two
being the Rock-mares Nos. 1 and 2] of full blood, viz: A ch. m. with a star and two white heels behind,
eight years old: Got by Wilson's Chestnut Arabian: her dam by Slipby, brother
to Snap's dam; and out of Menil [sic] the dam of Trunnion. Menil
was got by Partner: out of Sampson's-Sister, which was got by Greyhound:
her grandam by Curwen's Bay Barb: her g. grandam of Ld. D'Arcy's
Arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of a famous mare of Ld.

Montagu's. JOHN CARLYLE [77] Alexandria, Va., July 1762. In 1772 Carlyle
took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and carried it to completion.
In 1773 he bought pew No. 19.

In 1774 he built the Presbyterian meetinghouse. In between times he
was hunting at Belvoir and Mount Vernon, dancing at Alexandria assemblies,
sitting as town trustee and gentleman justice, journeying to England
and back, laying out and planting his garden, taking part in long,
hot arguments with his family and neighbors in the ever-widening breach
between the colonies and the mother country, breeding race horses,
and joining in the frolics of the Jockey Club.

Heir to a title old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused the cause of the colonies. Too ill
for active military service, he nevertheless served as a member of the Committee of Safety until his
death in 1780, at the age of sixty. John Carlyle divided his lands, named after the Scottish family
holdings, Limkiln, Bridekirk, Torthorwald Taken, between his two grandsons, Carlyle Fairfax Whiting and John
Carlyle Herbert.

To his daughter, Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax Street and one hundred feet
on Cameron Street, to include his dryware house. The mansion and all other property were for a brief
period the property of his only son.

In his will he expressed the utmost concern for the education of this
boy, George William Carlyle, and urged his executors to spare no
expense and to send him to the best schools.

Alas, for the plans of men! The lad, fired by the talk of father and friends, was serving in Lee's Legion in 1781,
and ere John Carlyle was moldering in his grave this boy of seventeen years, spirited, brave,
heir to large estates, great fortune and honorable name, and to the title of Lord Carlyle, was dead
at Eutaw Springs, led by that boy hardly older than himself "Light Horse
Harry" Lee. Enough of serious and sad history; let us in lighter vein
go once more into the lovely paneled blue room where not only weighty
conferences occurred, but where, in lace and satin, noble figures
threw aside the cares of state and trod a measure to the tinkling
of the spinet; where games of cards were indulged in and the pistoles
changed hands.

Let us go into the dining room with its fine Adam mantel and its mahogany doors, and visualize again
the terrapin and the canvasback, the Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen
below, and the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria. Let us stroll in the still lovely garden
where the aroma of box and honeysuckle mingle, and turn our thoughts once more to the inmates of this
fine, old house. Built in the days when Virginia was a man's world, when men
who wore satin, velvet and damask were masters of the art of fighting,
riding, drinking, eating, and wooing.

     
     
     
     
     When a man knew what he wanted, and got it by God's help and his own tenacity, enjoying
     himself right lustily in the getting. Perchance Major John Carlyle,
clad in Saxon green laced with silver, will be wandering up and down his
box-bordered paths with his first love, Sarah Fairfax, watching the
moon light up the rigging of Carlyle& Dalton's great ships at anchor
just at the foot of the garden.

Chapter 3 The Married Houses [209-211 North Fairfax Street. Owner: Mrs.
Herbert E. Marshburn.] When the new town of Alexandria was laid out,
John Dalton purchased, on July 13, 1749, the first lot put up for
sale (No. 36) for the sum of nineteen pistoles.

The lot faced the Potomac River and was bounded by Water (now Lee)
Street, Fairfax Street and lot No. 37. When the latter lot, which lay on Cameron
and Fairfax, was put up later in the day, it was purchased during the
Civil War while on active duty as a member of General Robert E. Lee's
staff. When the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied by Union troops.
The Union authorities knew of the sale of Mount Vernon and repeated
but futile efforts were made to find the securities.

Mr. Burke's home was searched no less than three times. The funds were never found in their hiding
place of the soiled-clothes basket. There they reposed until Mrs. Burke (née Trist, great-granddaughter
of Thomas Jefferson) and Mrs. Upton Herbert (née Tracy), both Philadelphia-born ladies, sewed the bonds
in their petticoats and with high heads carried them through the
Union lines to Washington and delivered them to George W. Riggs, who
held them for the duration of the war, when he returned them to Alexandria--
and Mr. Burke.

An interesting sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago when the last of John Augustine
Washington's children died. Mr. Taylor Burke, grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the Burke&
Herbert Bank, administered the estate of the late Mrs. Eleanor Washington Howard, and distributed her estate,
composed of the remainder of that purchase price, among her heirs. [81] Chapter 4 The Fairfaxes of
Belvoir and Alexandria Of the families in Virginia closely associated
with George Washington, none bore so intimate a relation as that
of Fairfax.

William Fairfax, founder of the Virginia branch of the family, was born
in 1691 in Towlston in Yorkshire, England, the son of the Honorable
Henry Fairfax, Sheriff of Yorkshire, and grandson of the Fourth Lord
Fairfax.

Educated as a member of the governing classes, he began his career
in the navy, later entering the colonial service. Before he was twenty-six
he had acted as chief justice of the Bahamas and Governor of the Isle
of Providence.

Prior to 1717 he married Sarah Walker of Nassau, daughter of Colonel Walker, by whom he had four children,
George William, Thomas, Anne, and Sarah. In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was appointed Collector of the
Port of Salem, Massachusetts, and removed to that colony. In 1731 his wife died, and very shortly afterward
he married Deborah, widow of Francis Clarke and daughter of Colonel
Bartholomew Gedney of Salem, by whom he had three children, Bryan,
William Henry, and Hannah.

In 1734 Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas, Sixth Lord Fairfax (who,
by direct inheritance from a royal grant of Charles II, had come into possession of some five million acres
of Virginia land lying between the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and extending from Chesapeake
Bay to the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, known to Virginians as the Northern Neck); and to
serve as Collector of Customs for the South Potomac. Fairfax first went to Westmoreland, where he
was associated with the Washington and Lee families. Next he moved
to King George, and lived at Falmouth. By 1741 he was representing Prince
William County in the House of Burgesses.

Colonel Fairfax was elevated to "His Majesty's Council of State" three years later. Becoming President
of the Council in 1744, he continued in that office until his death. About
this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall.

It was described by Washington in an advertisement as having "four
convenient rooms and a wide Hall on the first floor." In one of these
"convenient rooms," more than two hundred years ago on July 19, 1743,
Anne, eldest daughter of Colonel Fairfax was married to Lawrence
Washington of Mount Vernon.

  I have no objection
to discuss all these points with you; but you will in the meantime confess that prescribing
to me so positively what I ought to do, without first enabling yourself to judge of the matter,
is, my dear philosopher, acting very inconsiderately.  What is still worse, I perceive the
opinion you give comes not from yourself.  Besides my being but little disposed to suffer myself
to be led by the nose under your name by any third or fourth person, I observe in this secondary
advice certain underhand dealing, which ill agrees with your candor, and from which you will
on your account, as well as mine, do well in future to abstain.

"You are afraid my conduct should be misinterpreted; but I defy a heart like yours to think
ill of mine.  Others would perhaps speak better of me if I resembled them more.  God preserve
me from gaining their approbation!  Let the vile and wicked watch over my conduct and misinterpret
my actions, Rousseau is not a man to be afraid of them, nor is Diderot to be prevailed upon
to hearken to what they say.

"If I am displeased with your letter, you wish me to throw it into the fire, and pay no attention
to the contents.  Do you imagine that anything coming from you can be forgotten in such a manner?
You hold, my dear friend, my tears as cheap in the pain you give me, as you do my life and
health, in the cares you exhort me to take.  Could you but break yourself of this, your friendship
would be more pleasing to me, and I should be less to be pitied."

On entering the chamber of Madam d'Epinay I found Grimm with her, with which I was highly delighted.
I read to them, in a loud and clear voice, the two letters, with an intrepidity of which I
should not have thought myself capable, and concluded with a few observations not in the least
derogatory to it.  At this unexpected audacity in a man generally timid, they were struck dumb
with surprise; I perceived that arrogant man look down upon the ground, not daring to meet
my eyes, which sparkled with indignation; but in the bottom of his heart he from that instant
resolved upon my destruction, and, with Madam d' Epinay, I am certain concerted measures to
that effect before they separated.

It was much about this time that I at length received, by Madam d'Houdetot, the answer from
Saint Lambert, dated from Wolfenbuttle, a few days after the accident had happened to him,
to my letter which had been long delayed upon the road.  This answer gave me the consolation
of which I then stood so much in need; it was full of assurance of esteem and friendship, and
these gave me strength and courage to deserve them.  From that moment I did my duty, but had
Saint Lambert been less reasonable, generous and honest, I was inevitably lost.

The season became bad, and people began to quit the country.  Madam d'Houdetot informed me
of the day on which she intended to come and bid adieu to the valley, and gave me a rendezvous
at Laubonne.  This happened to be the same day on which Madam d'Epinay left the Chevrette to
go to Paris for the purpose of completing preparations for her journey. Fortunately she set
off in the morning, and I had still time to go and dine with her sister-in-law.  I had the
letter from Saint Lambert in my pocket, and read it over several times as I walked along, This
letter served me as a shield against my weakness.  I made and kept to the resolution of seeing
nothing in Madam d'Houdetot but my friend and the mistress of Saint Lambert; and I passed with
her a tete-a-fete of four hours in a most delicious calm, infinitely preferable, even with
respect to enjoyment, to the paroxysms of a burning fever, which, always, until that moment,
I had had when in her presence.  As she too well knew my heart not to be changed, she was sensible
of the efforts I made to conquer myself, and esteemed me the more for them, and I had the pleasure
of perceiving that her friendship for me was not extinguished. For any one who demands plot there is one-- of such gigantic dimensions,
indeed, that it is not easy to grasp it, but seen to be singularly
well articulated and put together when it is once grasped.

Huge as it is, it is not in the least formless, and, as has been several times pointed out, hardly
the most (as it may at first appear) wanton and unpardonable episode,
digression, or inset lacks its due connection with and "orientation"
towards the end.

The contrast of this with the more or less formless chronicle-fashion,
the "overthwart and endlong" conduct, of almost all the romances
from the carlovingian and arthurian [193] to the Amadis type, is of
the most unmistakable kind.

Again, though character, as has been admitted, in any real live sense,
is terribly wanting still; though description is a little general and wants
more "streaks in the tulip"; and though conversation is formal and
stilted, there is evident, perhaps even in the first, certainly in
the second and third cases, an effort to treat them at any rate systematically,
in accordance with some principles of art, and perhaps even not without
some eye to the actual habits, manners, demands of the time-- things
which again were quite new in prose fiction, and, in fact, could hardly
be said to be anywhere present in literature outside of drama.

To set against these not so very small merits in the present, and
very considerable seeds of promise for the future, there are, of course,
serious faults or defects-- defaults which need, however, less insistence,
because they are much more generally known, much more obvious, and
have been already admitted.

The charge of excessive length need hardly be dealt with at all.

It has already been said that the most interesting point about it is the opportunity of discovering how
it was, in part, a regular, and, in fact, almost the furthest possible, development of a characteristic
which had been more or less observable throughout the progress of romance. But it may be added that the
law of supply and demand helped; for people evidently were not in
the least bored by bulk, and that the fancy for having a book "on
hand" has only lately, if it has actually, died out. [194] now such
a "book on hand" as the grand Cyrus exists, as far as my knowledge
goes, in no western literature, unless you count collections of letters,
which is not fair, or such memoirs as Saint-Simon's, which do not
appeal to quite the same class of readers.

A far more serious default or defect-- not exactly blameworthy, because the
time was not yet, but certainly to be taken account of-- is the almost
utter want of character just referred to. From Cyrus and Mandane
downwards the people have qualities; but qualities, though they are
necessary to character, do not constitute it.

Very faint approaches may be discerned, by very benevolent criticism,
in such a personage as Martésie with her shrewdness, her maid-of-honour
familiarity with the ways and manners of courtly human beings, and
that very pardonable, indeed agreeable, tendency, which has been noticed
or imagined, to flirt in respectful fashion with Cyrus, while carrying
on more regular business with Feraulas.

But it is little more than a suggestion, and it has been frankly
admitted that it is perhaps not even that, but an imagination merely.
And the an observation may apply to her "second string," Doralise.

No others of the women have any character at all, and we have already
spoken of the men.

Now these things, in a book very widely read and immensely admired,
could not, and did not, fail to have their effect. Nobody-- we shall see
this more in detail in the next chapter-- can fail to perceive that
the Princesse de clèves itself is, from one point of view, only a
histoire of the grand Cyrus, taken out of its preposterous matrix
of other matter, polished, charged with a great addition of internal
fire of character and passion, and left to take its chance alone and
unencumbered.

Nobody, on the other hand, who knows Richardson and Mademoiselle
de Scudéry can doubt the influence of the french book-- a century old
as it was-- on the "father of the english novel." now any influence
exerted on these two was, beyond controversy, an influence exerted
on the whole future course of the kind, and it is as exercising such
an influence that we have given to the great Cyrus so great a space.*****
[sidenote: the other Scudéry romances-- Ibrahim.] after the exhaustive
account given of artamène, it is probably not necessary to apologise
for dealing with the rest of Mlle.

De Scudéry's novel work, and with that of her comrades in the heroic
romance, at no very great length.

Ibrahim ou L'Illustre Bassa has sometimes been complimented as showing
more endeavour, if not exactly at "local colour," at technical accuracy,
than the rest.

It is true that the french were, at this time, rather amusingly proud
of being the only Western nation treated on something like equal terms
by the Sublime Porte, and that the Scudérys (possibly Georges, whose
work the Dedication to Mlle. De Rohan, daughter of the famous soldier,
pretty certainly is) may have taken some pains to acquire knowledge. "Sandjak"
(or "Sanjiac"), not for a district but for its governor, is a little unlucky
perhaps; but "Aderbion" is much nearer "Azerbaijan" than one generally
expects in such cases from french writers of the seventeenth or even
of other centuries. The oriental character of the story, however,
is but partial. The illustrious Pasha himself, though first Vizir
and "victorious" general of Soliman the Second, is not a Turk at
all, but a "justinian" or Giustiniani of genoa, whose beloved Isabelle
is a Princess of Monaco, and who at the end, after necessary dangers,
[195] retires with her to that Principality, with a punctilious explanation
from the author about the Grimaldis.

The scene is partly there and at genoa-- the best genoese families, including the Dorias, appearing-- partly at
Constantinople: and the business at the latter place is largely concerned with the intrigues, jealousies, and
cruelties of Roxelane, who is drawn much more (one regrets to say) as history paints her than
as the agreeable creature of Marmontel's subsequent fancy. The book is a mere cockboat beside the mighty
argosy of the Cyrus, running only to four volumes and some two thousand pages. But though smaller,
it is much "stodgier." the Histoires break out at once with the story of
a certain Alibech-- much more proper for the young person than that
connected with the same name by Boccaccio,-- and those who have acquired
some knowledge of Mlle. Madeleine's ways will know what it means
when, adopting the improper but defensible practice of "looking at the end,"
they find that not merely "justinian" and Isabelle, but a Horace
and a hypolite, a Doria and a Sophronie, an Alphonse and a Léonide
are all married on the same day, while a "french Marquis" and an
Emilie vow inviolable but celibate constancy to each other; they will
know, that is to say, that in the course of the book all these will
have been duly "historiated." to encourage them, a single hint that
Léonide sometimes plays a little of the parts of Martésie and Doralise
in the Cyrus may be thrown in.

There is, however, one sentence in the second volume of Ibrahim which is worth quotation and brief
comment, because it is a text for the whole management and system of these novels, and accounts for
much in their successors almost to the future day. Emilie is telling the Histoire of Isabelle, and excuses herself
for not beginning at the beginning: "puisque je sais que vous n'ignorez pas l'amour du Prince
de Masseran, les violences et les artifices de Julie, la trahison de Féliciane, le généreux
ressentiment de Doria [this is another Doria], la mort de cet amant infortuné, et ensuite celle de
Julie." in other words, all these things have been the subject of previous histories or of the main
text. And so it is always. Diderot admired, or at least excused, that procedure of Richardson's
which involved the telling of the conversation of an average dinner-party in
something like a small volume. But the "heroic" method would have make
it necessary to tell the previous experiences of the lady you took
off to dinner, and the man that you talked to afterwards, while, if
extended from aristocratic to democratic ideas, it would have justified
a few remarks on the cabmen who brought both, and the butcher and
fishmonger who supplied the feast.

The inconvenience of this earlier practice made itself felt, and by degrees
it dropped off; but it was succeeded by a somewhat similar habit of
giving the subsequent history of personages introduced-- a thing which,
though Scott satirised it in Mrs. Martha buskbody's insistence on
information about the later history of Guse Gibbie, [196] by no means
ceased with his time.

Both were, in fact, part of the general refusal to accept the conditions of ordinary life. If "tout
passe" is an exaggeration, it is an exaggeration of the truth: and in fiction, as in fact, the minor shapes must
dissolve as well as arise without too much fuss being made about them. [197] [sidenote: almahide.] almahide is, i think,
more readable than Ibrahim; but the english reader must disabuse himself of the idea (if he entertains
it) that he will find much of the original of the Conquest of Granada. The book does, indeed, open like
the play, with the faction-fights of Abencerrages and Zegrys, and it ends with Boabdelin's jealousy of
his wife almahide, while a few of the other names in both are identical.
But almahide contains nothing, or hardly anything, of the character of
Almanzor, and dryden has not attempted to touch a hundredth part of
the copious matter of the french novel, the early history of Almahide,
the usual immense digressions and side-histoires, the descriptions
(which, as in Ibrahim, play, i think, a larger relative part than
in the Cyrus), and what not.

[sidenote: Clélie.] [sidenote: perhaps the liveliest of the set.] copious as these are, however,
in both books, they do not fill them out to anything like the length of the Cyrus itself, or of its rival
in size, and perhaps superior in attraction, the Clélie. I do not plead guilty to inconsistency
or change of opinion in this "perhaps" when it is compared with the
very much larger space given to the earlier novel.

Le grand Cyrus has been estated too firmly, as the type and representative of the whole class, to be dislodged,
and there is, as we shall see presently, a good deal of repetition from
it in Clélie itself. But this latter is the more amusing book of the
two; it is, though equally or nearly as big, less labyrinthine; there
is somewhat livelier movement in it, and at the same time this is
contrasted with a set or series of interludes of love-casuistry, which
are better, i think, than anything of the kind in the Cyrus.

[198] the most famous feature of these is, of course, the well-known
but constantly misnamed "Carte de Tendre"

("Map of the Country of Tenderness"-- not of "Tenderness in the aibstract,"
as du tendre would be). The discussion of what constitutes Tenderness
comes overboard early; there is later a notable discourse on the respective
attractions of Love and of Glory or Ambition; a sort of Code and anti-code
of lovers [199] occurs as "the Love-Morality of Tiramus," with a set of
(not always) contrary criticism thereof; and a debate of same almost
mediaeval kind as to the respective merits of merry and melancholy
mistresses.

Moreover, there is a rather remarkable "Vision of Poets"-- past, present, and to come-- which should
be taken in connection with the appearance, as an actual personage,
of Anacreon. All this, taken in conjunction with the "business" of the story,
helps to give it the superior liveliness with which it has, rightly
or wrongly, been credited here.

[sidenote: rough outline of it.] of that business itself a complete
account cannot, for reasons given more than once, be attempted; though
anybody who wants such a thing, without going to the book itself,
may find it in the places also above mentioned.

There is no such trick played upon the educated but not wideawake
person as (v. Inf.) in La Calprenède's chief books.

Clélie is the real Clelia, if the modern historical student will pass "real" without sniffing, or even
if he will not. Her lover, "Aronce," although he probably may be a little disguised from the english
reader by his spelling, is so palpably the again real "Aruns," son of Porsena, that one rather
wonders how his identity can have been so long concealed in french (where the pronunciations would be practically
the same) from the readers of an story. The book begins with a proceeding not quite so like that of the Cyrus
as some to be mentioned later, but still pretty close to the elder overture. "the illustrious Aronce
and the adorable Clelia" are actually going to be married, when there
is a fearful storm, an earthquake, and a disappearance of the heroine.
She has, of course, been carried off; one might say, without flippancy,
of any heroine of madeleine de Scudéry's not only that she was, as
in a famous and already quoted saying, "very liable to be carried
off," but that it was not in nature that she should not be carried
off as early and as often as possible.

And her abductor is no less a person than Horatius-- our own Horatius Cocles-- the one who kept the
bridge in some of the best known of english verses, not he who provoked, from the sister whom he murdered,
the greatest speech in all french tragedy before, and perhaps not merely before, Victor Hugo. Horatius
is the Philidaspes of Clélie, but, as he was bound to be, an infinitely better fellow and of a better
fate. Of course the end knits duly on to the beginning. Clélie and Aronce are united without an earthquake, and Porsena,
with obliging gallantry, resigns the crown of Clusium (from which he has
himself long been kept out by a "Mezentius," who will hardly work in
with Virgil's), not to aronce, but to Clélie herself.

     
     The enormous interval between (the book is practically as long as the
     Cyrus) is occupied by the same, or (v. Sup.) nearly the same tissue of delays, digressions,
     and other maze-like devices for setting you off on a new quest when
you seem to be quite close to the goal.

A large part of the scene is in Carthage, where, reversing the process
in regard to Mezentius, Asdrubals and Amilcars make their appearance
in a very "mixedly" historical fashion.

A Prince of Numidia (who had heard of Numidia in Tarquin's days?) fights
a lively water-combat with Horatius actually as he is carrying Clélie
off, over the Lake of Thrasymene. All the stock legends of the Porsena
siege and others are straight brought in: and the atrocious Sextus,
not contented with his sin against Lucrèce, tries to carry down Clélie
likewise, but is fortunately or wisely prevented.

Otherwise the invariable propriety which from the time of the small love-novels (v. Sup. Pp. 157-162) had
distinguished these abductions might possibly have been broken through. These outlines might be expanded (and
the process would not be very painful to me) into the abstract quite as long as that of Cyrus; but "It Cannot
be." one objection, foreshadowed, and perhaps a little more, already, must be allowed against Clélie.
That tendency to resort to repetition of situations and movements-- which has shown itself so
often, and which practically distinguishes the very great novelists from those not so great by its
absence or presence-- is obvious here, though the huge size of the
book may conceal it from mere dippers, unless they be experts.

The similarity of the openings is, comparatively speaking, a usual thing. It should not happen,
and does not in really great writers; but it is tempting, and is to some extent excused by the
brocard about le premier pas. It is so nice to put yourself in front
of your beginning-- to have made sure of it! but this charity will hardly
extend to such a thing as the repetition of Cyrus's foolish promise
to fight Philidaspes before he marries Mandane in the case of Aronce,
Horatius, and Clélie.

The way in which Aronce is kept an "unknown" for some time, and that in which his actual relationship
to Porsena is treated, have also too much of the replica; and though a lively skirmish with a
pirate which occurs is not quite so absurd as that ready-made series of encores which was described
above (pp. 181-2), there is something a little like it in the way in which the hero and his men alternately
reduce the enemy to extremity, and run over the deck to rescue friends
who are in the pirates'power from being butchered or flung quite.
"Sapho's" invention, though by no means sterile, was evidently somewhat
indiscriminate, and she would seem to have thought it rather a pity that
a good thing should be used only once. Nevertheless the compliment given above
may be repeated. If i were sent to twelve months'imprisonment of a
mild description, and allowed to choose a library, i should include
in it, from the heroic or semi-heroic division, Clélie, La Calprenède's
two chief books, Gomberville's Polexandre, and gombauld's Endimion
(this partly for the pictures), with, as a matter of course, the Astrée,
and a choice of one other.

By reading slowly and "savouring" the process, i should imagine that, with one's memories of other things,
they might be able to last for a year. And it would be one of the best kind of fallows for the brain.
In anticipation, let us see something of these others now. [sidenote: La Calprenède: his comparative
cheerfulness.] it has seemed, as was said, desirable to follow the common opinion of literary history
in giving madeleine de Scudéry the place of honour, and the largest as well as the foremost share
in our account of this curious stage in the history of the novel. But if, to alter slightly a famous
quotation, i might "give a short hint to an impartial reader," i should
very strongly advise him to begin his studies (or at least his enjoyment) thereof,
not with "Sapho," but with gauthier de Costes, seigneur de la Calprenède,
himself according to tallemant almost the proverbial "Gascon et demi";
a tragic dramatist, as well as a romantic writer; a favourite of mme.

De Sévigné, who seldom went wrong in her preferences, except when she
preferred her very disagreeable daughter to her really agreeable son; and more
than any one else the inventor, or at least perfecter, of the hectoring heroic style
which we associate with Dryden's plays.


This presented itself sooner than I expected.  On the 10th of December I received from Madam
d'Epinay the following answer to my preceding letter:

                                   GENEVA, 1st December, 1757.

"After having for several years given you every possible mark of friendship all I can now do
is to pity you.  You are very unhappy.  I wish your conscience may be as calm as mine.  This
may be necessary to the repose of your whole life.

"Since you are determined to quit the Hermitage, and are persuaded that you ought to do it,
I am astonished your friends have prevailed upon you to stay there.  For my part I never consult
mine upon my duty, and I have nothing further to say to you upon your own."

Such an unforeseen dismission, and so fully pronounced, left me not a moment to hesitate. 
It was necessary to quit immediately, let the weather and my health be in what state they might,
although I were to sleep in the woods and upon the snow, with which the ground was then covered,
and in defiance of everything Madam d'Houdetot might say; for I was willing to do everything
to please her except render myself infamous.

I never had been so embarrassed in my whole life as I then was; but my resolution was taken.
I swore, let what would happen, not to sleep at the Hermitage on the night of that day week.
I began to prepare for sending away my effects, resolving to leave them in the open field rather
than not give up the key in the course of the week: for I was determined everything should
be done before a letter could be written to Geneva, and an answer to it received.  I never
felt myself so inspired with courage: I had recovered all my strength.  Honor and indignation,
upon which Madam d'Epinay had not calculated, contributed to restore me to vigor.  Fortune
aided my audacity.  M. Mathas, fiscal procurer, heard of my embarrasament.  He sent to offer
me a little house he had in his garden of Mont Louis, at Montmorency.  I accepted it with eagerness
and gratitude.  The bargain was soon concluded: I immediately sent to purchase a little furniture
to add to that we already had.  My effects I had carted away with a deal of trouble, and a
great expense: notwithstanding the ice and snow my removal was completed in a couple of days,
and on the fifteenth of December I gave up the keys of the Hermitage, after having paid the
wages of the gardener, not being able to pay my rent.

With respect to Madam le Vasseur, I told her we must part; her daughter attempted to make me
renounce my resolution, but I was inflexible. All this by way to prelude of a solitary protest
against the exaggerative ecstasies indulged in by many civilians when discussing
the air services.

The
british pilots are competent and daring, but they would be the last
to claim an undue share of war's glory. 

They do not ask or expect him to make all his business affairs public.
They are willing that he should say nothing about which many of his
business operations.

                                   They to feel that he is not a safe man. They at once suspect that
there is everything incorrect.

 Under this heading may be mentioned Papyrus Sallier iv in the british Museum,
which contains a list of lucky and unlucky days.

The magical
day is lucky. The egyptian saw no wrong in the working of magic, and it was only condemned by him when
the magician wished to produce evil results. Specimen of these will be found in the famous wild animal
of the Museum, e. G. The Salt Papyrus, the Rhind Papyrus, and the Harris Papyrus. The gods themselves
were supposed to use spells and spell, and every traveller by land or water
carried with him magical formulæ which he recited when he was in condition
from the whole papyri in the tract or the crocodile of the river and
its duct. Here is a example of its contents: 1st
day of Hathor.  I could not break off the recital, it was necessary to continue it with the
greatest exactness; this epoch of my life having had upon the rest of it an influence which
will extend to my latest remembrance.

