In previous lectures we tried to clear up the differences existing between nearly related elementary
species. We have seen that they affect all of the attributes of the plants, each of them changing
in some measure all of the organs. Nevertheless they were due to distinct unities and of the
lowest possible degree. Such unit-steps may therefore be expected to become visible some time
or other by artificial means. On the other hand, mutations as a rule make their appearance
in groups, and there are many systematic species which on close inspection [518] have been
shown to be in reality composite assemblages. Roses and brambles, hawkweeds and willows are
the best known examples. Violets and Draba verna, dandelions and helianthemums and many other
instances were dealt with in previous lectures. Even wheat and barley and corn afford instances
of large groups of elementary species. Formerly mixed in the fields, they became separated
during the last century, and now constitute constant races, which, for brevity's sake, are
dealt with under the name of varieties.

In such groups of nearly allied forms the single members must evidently be of common origin.
It is not necessary for them to have originated all in the same place or at the same time.
In some cases, as with Draba verna, the present geographic distribution points to a common
birthplace, from whence the various forms may about the same period have radiated in all directions.
The violets on the other hand seem to include widely diffused original forms, from which branches
have started at different times and in different localities. 

That laboured address to the jury must have employed his thoughts for years. I should like very much
to know whether anyone has ever attempted to verify the references which he gives to the cases in which
he says that bones have been found. The style of the speech has
been much praised, but is surely not very surprising when it is considered
that Johnson had previously written the Rambler.

The composition
wants ease.

2. Ever since I began to read about Eugene Aram, and that is some years ago, I have had a settled opinion
that his attainments, and perhaps his abilities, had been greatly overrated.
He was doubtless a man of considerable mental powers; but we cannot
but suspect that had he acquired all the learning which is attributed
to him, he would have attracted more notice than it was his fortune
to obtain.

3.

Mr. Scatchard's attempts, and all other attempts, to clear him from "blood-guilty
stain," must be equally futile, for he himself confessed his guilt while
he was in prison.

Some time ago, a dozen years or more, there appeared in the Literary Gazette, as a communication
from a correspondent, an anecdote concerning Aram, which well deserves to be repeated. During the
time that he was in the school of Lynn, it was the custom for the head-master, at the termination
of every half-year, to invite the parents of the boys to an entertainment,
and all {361} who accepted the invitation were expected to bring with
them the money due on account of their sons, which, postquam exempta
fames epulis, they paid into the head-master's hands.

The master would thus retire to rest with a considerable sum in his possession.
On one of these occasions, after he had gone to his chamber and supposed
that all the family were in bed, he heard a noise in a passage not
far distant, and, going out to see what was the cause of it, found
Aram groping about in the dark, who, on being asked what he wanted, said
that he had been obliged to leave his room on a necessary occasion,
and had missed his way to the place which he sought.

The passage was not one into which he was likely to wander by mistake,
but the master accepted his excuse, and thought no more of the matter
till Aram was arrested for the robbery and murder of Clarke, when
he immediately recollected the circumstance, and suspected that he
had intended on that night to commit another robbery or murder.

I have not the number of the Literary Gazette in which this statement was given to refer to, but
I am sure that I have repeated the substance of it correctly, and remember that it was inserted
as being worthy of credit. It is another illustration of the fact
that the nature of a man is unchangeable.

Bulwer's novel, which elevates Aram from a school-assistant into a private gentleman, may have pleased
those, if there were such, who knew nothing of Arum's acts before they
began to read it. But all who knew what Aram was, must be disgusted at the
threshold. I regarded the book, at the time of its appearance, as one of
the most presumptuous falsifications of biography that had ever been
attempted.

It is not easy to see why Bulwer might not have made an equally interesting
story, if he had kept Aram in his proper station.

J. S. W.

Stockwell.

* * * * *
ON THE WORD "GRADELY."

Permit me to make a few remarks on the word
gradely:--

1. It seems to have no connexion with the Latin noun gradus,
Angl. grade, step.

2. Its first syllable, grade, is both a substantive
and an adjective; and gradely itself both adjective and adverb, as
weakly, sickly, godly, &c. They are very
constant and have proven so in my experiments. Besides these three species, the large-flowered
evening-primrose, or Oenothera lamarckiana, is found in some localities in Holland and elsewhere.
We know little concerning its origin. It is supposed to have come from America in the same
way as its congeners, but as yet I have not been able to ascertain on what grounds this supposition
rests. As far as I know, it has not been seen growing wild in this country, though it may have
been overlooked. Man's anatomy contemplates the use of the legs in supporting the weight of the body. His
physical powers are most naturally and advantageously brought into play while using the feet
as the point of support. It is around and from this centre of support that the upper part of
the body achieves its free and vigorous performances.

The deformities of gymnasts, to which Dr. Dixon and many others have called attention, are produced
in great part by substituting arms for legs. I need scarcely say that ring, dumb-bell, club, and
many other similar exercises, with cane and sword practice, boxing, etc., are all infinitely
superior to the ladder and bar performances. In the new system there is
opportunity for all the strength, flexibility, and skill which the
most advanced gymnasts possess, with the priceless advantage that
the two sexes may mingle in the scene with equal pleasure and profit.

I can but regard the common gymnasium as an institution of organized selfishness. In its very structure
it practically ignores woman. As I have intimated, it provides for young men alone, who of all
classes least need a gymnasium. They have most out-door life; the active games and sports are theirs; the
instinct for motion compels them to a great variety of active exercises,
which no other class enjoys.

Is
it not a strange mistake to provide a gymnasium for these alone?

But it is said, if you introduce women into the gymnasium, men will have no opportunity for those
difficult, daring feats which constitute the charm of the place. If by this is meant that there can
be no competition between the sexes in lifting heavy weights, or turning somersets, the objection
holds good. But are not games of skill as attractive as lifting kegs of nails? Women need not fall
behind men in those exercises which require grace, flexibility, and skill. In the Normal Institute
for Physical Education, where we are preparing teachers of the new
gymnastics, females succeed better than males. Although not so strong,
they are more flexible. There are in my gymnasium at this time a good many
ladies with whom the most ambitious young man need not be ashamed
to compete, unless the shame come from his being defeated. Gentlemen
will sacrifice nothing by joining their lady-friends in the gymnasium.
They open towards evening, as the name indicates, and are pollinated by humble-bees and moths.
On bright days their duration is confined to one evening, but during cloudy weather they may
still be found open on the following morning. Contrary to their congeners they are dependent
on visiting insects for pollination. O. biennis and O. muricata have their stigmas in immediate
contact with the anthers within the flower-buds, and as the anthers open in the morning preceding
the evening of the display of the petals, fecundation is usually accomplished before the insects
are let in. But in O. lamarckiana no such self-fertilization takes place. The stigmas are above
the anthers in the bud, and as the style increases in length at the time of the opening of
the corolla, they are elevated above the anthers and do not receive the pollen. Ordinarily
the flowers remained sterile if not visited by insects or pollinated by myself, although rare
instances of self-fertilization were seen. 

It is a very real game, and the rules thereof are practical. I know it, for verily I myself have
suffered. Let it not be understood, however, that it is as a "practical, real lover" that I have
suffered. Not at all. It is that this order of beings walks abroad, and I am not of it, and I meet
it, and I am pained, and I feel sorry. Could Love be but a pleasing fiction, how comfortable to
sit aside and contemplate it--a trifle to talk of, a dainty to dally
with, a joy to the juvenescent, a blessing to the book-writer, yet
never an inconvenience.

But it is a practical reality, and it has great effects. Why, I have seen good, healthy people,
quite nice-tempered people, brought to a shadow by it and churned into so many pounds of incompetent
irritability; so exacting about trifles, so fidgetty about catching the mail, and so careless
of the health of the uninteresting majority.

There was one man I knew down in a village, and he fell in love with a pretty girl--they mostly
do that--but she would have nothing to say to him; and after every rejected proposal he went
straight home and made a three-legged stool (he was a carpenter by trade, or perhaps it might
have affected him differently). He was what one might call an importunate man, for he proposed
nineteen times in all, and nineteen three-legged stools stood as silent witnesses of his importunity.
He changed houses after the twelfth, for he found a sad joy in contemplating his handiwork as he sat
at his lonely meals, and his first sitting-room was only twelve feet by eight. Finally, either
because of his importunity, or because she disliked the thought that the wordless witnesses
might fall into unsympathetic hands, the girl married the man, and scrubbed the stools nicely
with soap and sand, and grew quite fond of them. And only once did she regret her surrender;
and that was when it flashed across her one day that twenty would
have been a prettier number: but she stifled that pain as years went
on, and grew happy. The first head includes
those which are evidently to be considered as varieties, in the narrower sense of the word,
as previously given. The second and third heads indicate the real progressive elementary species,
first those which are as strong as the parent-species, and secondly a group of weaker types,
apparently not destined to be successful. Under the fourth head I shall include some inconstant
forms, and under the last head those that are organically incomplete.

Of varieties with a negative attribute, or real retrograde varieties, I have found three, all
of them in a flowering condition in the field. I have given them the names of laevifolia, brevistylis
and nanella.

[527] The laevifolia, or smooth-leaved variety, was one of the very first deviating types found
in the original field. This was in the summer of 1887, seventeen years ago. It formed a little
group of plants growing at some distance from the main body, in the same field. If he can guarantee this
by bail he is set at liberty, otherwise he is confined in jail. (See
p. 231.)

Pertinent Questions.

Are the justices and constables town, county or state officers?

How is it known at the county seat who the justices and constables in each town
are? Define docket, summons, warrant, pleading, subpoena, crime, felony, misdemeanor,
venire, costs, execution, recognizance. Why are there two justices in each town?
What is meant by "change of venue?" How is an oath administered in court?
What persons may not serve as witnesses? If a criminal should make confession
of the crime to his lawyer, could the lawyer be subpoenaed as a witness
on the trial?

Name some things "exempt from execution" in this state. What is to hinder
a bitter enemy of yours, if you have one, from having you committed to
prison. Can a civil suit proceed in the absence of the defendant?

Practical Work.

Assume that John Smith bought from Reuben White a cow, the price agreed
upon being $30; that Smith refuses to pay, and White sues him.

Write up all the papers in the case, make proper entries in the docket,
assessing costs, etc.

CHAPTER IV.

THE INCORPORATED VILLAGE.

Need of.--Owing to conditions, natural and artificial, favorable to business enterprises,
people group together in certain places. Living in a limited area, the
amount of land occupied by each family is small, and the territory is surveyed
into lots and blocks. To make each homestead accessible, streets are laid
out. The distances traveled being short, people go about principally
on foot; hence the need of sidewalks. To reduce the danger of going about
after dark, street-lamps are needed. The nearness of the houses to each
other renders it necessary to take special precautions for the prevention of
fires, and for their extinguishment in case they break out.

But
to provide and maintain all these things takes money, and the people
living in the other parts of the town not sharing the benefits would
hardly like to help pay for them. Hence it is but just that the people
living in the thickly settled portion of the town should be permitted
to separate from the rest and form an organization by themselves.

Again,
the circumstances being different, the regulations must be different
in this part of the town.

The flowers of the laevifolia are also in a slight degree different from those of lamarckiana.
The yellow color is paler and the petals are smoother. Later, in the fall, on the weaker side
branches these differences increase. The laevifolia petals become smaller and are often not
emarginated at the apex, becoming ovate [529] instead of obcordate. This shape is often the
most easily recognized and most striking mark of the variety. In respect to the reproductive
organs, the fertility and abundance of good seed, the laevifolia is by no means inferior or
superior to the original species. 

The Swede, who did not speak very good English, put the palm of his right hand over that of his left, lifted
the upper hand, slapped them together with a clap, and said, most
phlegmatically--"Flat as a pankakka."

I once crossed Ontario, in the same direction as that just mentioned, in another steamer, when the beautiful
Ontario was in a towering passion.

We had a poor fellow in the cabin, who had been a Roman Catholic
priest, but who had changed his form of faith. The whole vessel was in commotion;
it was impossible for the best sea-legs to hold on; so two or three who
were not subject to seasickness got into the cabin, or saloon, as
it is called, and grasped any thing in the way. The
lower part is also reduced, but in another manner. At the time of flowering it is like the
ovary of lamarckiana, neither smaller nor larger. But it is reached by only a very few pollen-tubes,
and is therefore always incompletely fertilized. It does [530] not fall off after the fading
away of the flower, as unfertilized ovaries usually do; neither does it grow out, nor assume
the upright position of normal capsules. It is checked in its development, and at the time
of ripening it is nearly of the same length as in the beginning. Many of them contain no good
seeds at all; from others I have succeeded in saving only a hundred seeds from thousands of
capsules.

These seeds, if purely pollinated, and with the exclusion of the visits of insects, reproduce
the variety, entirely and without any reversion to the lamarckiana type.

Correlated with the detailed structures is the form of the flower-buds. They lack the high
stigma placed above the anthers, which in the lamarckiana, by the vigorous growth of the style,
extends the calyx and renders the flower bud thinner and more slender. Those of the brevistylis
are therefore broader and more swollen. It is quite easy to distinguish the individuals by
this striking character alone, although it differs from the parent in other particulars.

The leaves of the O. brevistylis are more rounded at the tip, but the difference is only pronounced
at times, slightly in the adult rosettes, but more clearly on the growing summits of the stems
and branches. By this character, the plants [531] may be discerned among the others, some weeks
before the flowers begin to show themselves. But the character by which the plants may be most
easily recognized from a distance in the field is the failure of the fruits. They were found
there nearly every year in varying, but always small numbers.

Leaving the short-styled primrose, we come now to the last of our group of retrograde varieties. A chart
of the Pechis river, from its mouth to the termination of canoe navigation,
drawn upon one sheet and on a scale of one inch for each two miles.

A part of the River Herrera-yacu, and also a part of the River Trinidad, are included in this
chart, which contains 85 miles of the River Pichis, 4 miles of the
River Trinidad, and 5 miles of the River Herrera-yacu.

"12th. A chart of the Peruvian Amazon river and its affluents, drawn upon
one sheet and on a scale of one inch for each 15 miles.

This chart contains 1661 miles of the Peruvian Amazon river and its
affluents.

"13th.

"All the above mentioned charts are drawn upon 35 sheets, each sheet
being 30 inches long and 15 inches broad.

"14th. This chart contains, on one single sheet, all the surveys made
by the Hydrographical Commission of the Amazon. The other charts give
the same surveys more in detail.

"15th. A plan of the town of Iquitos, drawn upon one sheet.

"May God guard you. "MANL. FREYRE."

Tucker was in the sixty-seventh year of his age when he retired to
his home in the City of Petersburg, Virginia, where he had purchased
a comfortable house with a lawn and garden attached.

Here he passed the evening of an active life in the enjoyment of a private
fortune, which, though not large, was sufficient to supply all his moderate
wants and simple tastes.

Relatives and friends frequently visited him; he read much, and books, especially the older English classics,
were a source of much pleasure to him; the improvement of his lawn and garden was a pursuit which
afforded him unfailing interest and occupation.

On the 12th of June, 1883, he was apparently in his usual good health.

In the course of the morning a friend called on him, and they conversed together for some time, seated
in the shade of a tree on the lawn. His friend having taken his departure, Tucker reseated himself
for a few minutes in his chair, suddenly arose, straightened up his
tall form to its full height, and fell forward--dead.

Physicians were immediately summoned, but all the efforts to revive him were ineffectual. He had died
from disease of the heart; passing away from this world without a
struggle or a sigh, and going where souls as pure as his have nothing
to fear.

His remains were taken to Norfolk, Virginia, where they were received by old
friends and comrades, who knew and loved him well, and interred by the
side of his wife's grave, in a beautiful private cemetery near the city.

Admiral
Tucker possessed many of the qualities of a great commander. His judgment was
excellent, and it was very rarely the case that he was mistaken as
to what it was possible for the force at his disposal to accomplish.

He always commanded the respect and confidence,
as well as the good will, of his men.

A strict disciplinarian, the prompt and unhesitating
obedience to orders he exacted was cheerfully rendered by his subordinates.
His plans were coolly and deliberately formed, and, having been once determined upon,
were carried out with energy and resolution. In the ordinary intercourse
of private life he was so gentle, generous and genial that his friends and
associates felt for him a regard approaching affection.

In youth he was an eminently handsome man and in maturer years his presence
was imposing. Sailors and Indians are fond of giving personally descriptive
names to those with whom they are thrown in contact; when Tucker was a
lieutenant he was called "Handsome Jack" by the men-before-the-mast,
and the warriors of the savage tribes that wander about the head
waters of the Amazon knew him as the "Apo," the meaning of the word
being "High Chief."

In concluding this sketch of the eventful life
of John Randolph Tucker, it is but doing justice to his memory to
say that the sea-service never produced a more thorough and accomplished
sailor, and that there never was bred to the profession of arms a
more honorable and gallant gentleman. A red hue may be seen on the calyx, and even the yellow color
of the petals is somewhat deepened in the same way. Young plants are often marked by the pale
red tinge of the mid-veins, but in adult rosettes, or from lack of sunshine, this hue is often
very faint. 

In the course of a mile and a half we passed two small creeks on the
south, one of eighteen the other of thirty yards width, but neither
of them containing any water, and encamped on the south at a point
of woodland, having made only seven miles.

The country is much the same as yesterday, with little timber in the low grounds, and a small quantity
of pine and cedar on the northern hills. The river however continues to grow clearer, and this as well
as the increased rapidity induces us to hope for some change of country.
 Young stems of rubrinervis may be
broken off by a sharp stroke, and show a smooth rupture across all the tissues, while those
of lamarckiana are very tough and strong.

