The Spinster Book

By Myrtle Reed

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS New York and London The Knickerbocker Press

1907

       *       *       *       *       *

COPYRIGHT, 1901 BY MYRTLE REED

       *       *       *       *       *

Set up and electrotyped, September, 1901

Reprinted, November, 1901; April, 1902; August, 1902; April, 1903; July, 1903; September, 1903;
June, 1904; October, 1904; June, 1905; September, 1905; March, 1906; September, 1906; November,
1906; July, 1907.

The Knickerbocker Press, New York

       *       *       *       *       *

BY MYRTLE REED.

    LOVE LETTERS OF A MUSICIAN.
    LATER LOVE LETTERS OF A MUSICIAN.
    THE SPINSTER BOOK.
    LAVENDER AND OLD LACE.
    PICKABACK SONGS.
    THE SHADOW OF VICTORY.
    THE MASTER'S VIOLIN.
    THE BOOK OF CLEVER BEASTS.
    AT THE SIGN OF THE JACK-O'-LANTERN.
    A SPINNER IN THE SUN.
    LOVE AFFAIRS OF LITERARY MEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Contents

                                                                    PAGE

Notes on Men                                                           3 Concerning Women 
25 The Philosophy of Love                                                49 The Lost Art of
Courtship                                             71 The Natural History of Proposals 
93 Love Letters: Old and New                                            115 An Inquiry into
Marriage                                             137 The Physiology of Vanity         
161 Widowers and Widows                                                  183 The Consolations
of Spinsterhood                                     205

Notes on Men

Notes on Men

[Sidenote: "The Proper Study"]

If "the proper study of mankind is man," it is also the chief delight of woman. It is not surprising
that men are conceited, since the thought of the entire population is centred upon them.

Women are wont to consider man in general as a simple creation. It is not until the individual
comes into the field of the feminine telescope, and his peculiarities are thrown into high
relief, that he is seen and judged at his true value.

When a girl once turns her attention from the species to the individual, her parlour becomes
a sort of psychological laboratory in which she conducts various experiments; not, however,
without the loss of friends. For men are impatient of the spirit of inquiry in woman.

[Sidenote: The Phenomena of Affection]

How shall a girl acquire her knowledge of the phenomena of affection, if men are not willing
to be questioned upon the subject? What is more natural than to seek wisdom from the man a
girl has just refused to marry? Why should she not ask if he has ever loved before, how long
he has loved her, if he were not surprised when he found it out, and how he feels in her presence?

Yet a sensitive spinster is repeatedly astonished at finding her lover transformed into a fiend,
without other provocation than this. He accuses her of being "a heartless coquette," of having
"led him on,"--whatever that may mean,--and he does not care to have her for his sister, or
even for his friend.

[Sidenote: Original Research]

Occasionally a charitable man will open his heart for the benefit of the patient student. If
he is of a scientific turn of mind, with a fondness for original research, he may even take
a melancholy pleasure in the analysis.

Thus she learns that he thought he had loved, until he cared for her, but in the light of the
new passion he sees clearly that the others were mere, idle flirtations. To her surprise, she
also discovers that he has loved her a long time but has never dared to speak of it before,
and that this feeling, compared with the others, is as wine unto water. In her presence he
is uplifted, exalted, and often afraid, for very love of her.

Next to a proposal, the most interesting thing in the world to a woman is this kind of analysis.
If a man is clever at it, he may change a decided refusal to a timid promise to "think about
it." The man who hesitates may be lost, but the woman who hesitates is surely won.

In the beginning, the student is often perplexed by the magnitude of the task which lies before
her. Later, she comes to know that men, like cats, need only to be stroked in the right direction.
The problem thus becomes a question of direction, which is seldom as simple as it looks.

[Sidenote: The Personal Equation]

Yet men, as a class, are easier to understand than women, because they are less emotional.
It is emotion which complicates the personal equation with radicals and quadratics, and life
which proceeds upon predestined lines soon becomes monotonous and loses its charm. The involved
x in the equation continually postpones the definite result, which may often be surmised, but
never achieved.

Still, there is little doubt as to the proper method, for some of the radicals must necessarily
appear in the result. Man's conceit is his social foundation and when the vulnerable spot is
once found in the armour of Achilles, the overthrow of the strenuous Greek is near at hand.

There is nothing in the world as harmless and as utterly joyous as man's conceit. The woman
who will not pander to it is ungracious indeed.

Man's interest in himself is purely altruistic and springs from an unselfish desire to please.
He values physical symmetry because one's first impression of him is apt to be favourable.
Manly accomplishments and evidences of good breeding are desirable for the same reason, and
he likes to think his way of doing things is the best, regardless of actual effectiveness.

[Sidenote: Pencils]

For instance, there seems to be no good reason why a man's way of sharpening a pencil is any
better than a woman's. It is difficult to see just why it is advisable to cover the thumb with
powdered graphite, and expose that useful member to possible amputation by a knife directed
uncompromisingly toward it, when the pencil might be pointed the other way, the risk of amputation
avoided, and the shavings and pulverised graphite left safely to the action of gravitation
and centrifugal force. Yet the entire race of men refuse to see the true value of the feminine
method, and, indeed, any man would rather sharpen any woman's pencil than see her do it herself.

[Sidenote: The "Supreme Conceit"]

It pleases a man very much to be told that he "knows the world," even though his acquaintance
be limited to the flesh and the devil--a gentleman, by the way, who is much misunderstood and
whose faults are persistently exaggerated. But man's supreme conceit is in regard to his personal
appearance. Let a single entry in a laboratory note-book suffice for proof.

Time, evening. MAN is reading a story in a current magazine to the GIRL he is calling upon.

MAN. "Are you interested in this?"

GIRL. "Certainly, but I can think of other things too, can't I?"

MAN. "That depends on the 'other things.' What are they?"

GIRL. (Calmly.) "I was just thinking that you are an extremely handsome man, but of course
you know that."

MAN. (Crimsoning to his temples.) "You flatter me!" (Resumes reading.)

Girl. (Awaits developments.)

MAN. (After a little.) "I didn't know you thought I was good-looking."

GIRL. (Demurely.) "Didn't you?"

MAN. (Clears his throat and continues the story.)

MAN. (After a few minutes.) "Did you ever hear anybody else say that?"

GIRL. "Say what?"

MAN. "Why, that I was--that I was--well, good-looking, you know?"

GIRL. "Oh, yes! Lots of people!"

MAN. (After reading half a page.) "I don't think this is so very interesting, do you?"

GIRL. "No, it isn't. It doesn't carry out the promise of its beginning."

MAN. (Closes magazine and wanders aimlessly toward the mirror in the mantel.)

MAN. "Which way do you like my hair; this way, or parted in the middle?"

GIRL. "I don't know--this way, I guess. I've never seen it parted in the middle."

MAN. (Taking out pocket comb and rapidly parting his hair in the middle.) "There! Which way
do you like it?"

GIRL. (Judicially.) "I don't know. It's really a very hard question to decide."

MAN. (Reminiscently.) "I've gone off my looks a good deal lately. I used to be a lot better
looking than I am now."

GIRL. (Softly.) "I'm glad I didn't know you then."

MAN. (In apparent astonishment.) "Why?"

GIRL. "Because I might not have been heart whole, as I am now."

(Long silence.)

MAN. (With sudden enthusiasm.) "I'll tell you, though, I really do look well in evening dress."

GIRL. "I haven't a doubt of it, even though I've never seen you wear it."

MAN. (After brief meditation.) "Let's go and hear Melba next week, will you? I meant to ask
you when I first came in, but we got to reading."

GIRL. "I shall be charmed."

Next day, GIRL gets a box of chocolates and a dozen American Beauties--in February at that.

[Sidenote: Dimples and Dress Clothes]

Tell a man he has a dimple and he will say "where?" in pleased surprise, meanwhile putting
his finger straight into it. He has studied that dimple in the mirror too many times to be
unmindful of its geography.

Let the woman dearest to a man say, tenderly: "You were so handsome to-night, dear--I was proud
of you." See his face light up with noble, unselfish joy, because he has given such pleasure
to others!

All the married men at evening receptions have gone because they "look so well in evening dress,"
and because "so few men can wear dress clothes really well." In truth, it does require distinction
and grace of bearing, if a man would not be mistaken for a waiter.

Man's conceit is not love of himself but of his fellow-men. The man who is in love with himself
need not fear that any woman will ever become a serious rival. Not unfrequently, when a man
asks a woman to marry him, he means that he wants her to help him love himself, and if, blinded
by her own feeling, she takes him for her captain, her pleasure craft becomes a pirate ship,
the colours change to a black flag with a sinister sign, and her inevitable destiny is the
coral reef.

[Sidenote: Palmistry]

Palmistry does very well for a beginning if a man is inclined to be shy. It leads by gentle
and almost imperceptible degrees to that most interesting of all subjects, himself, and to
that tactful comment, dearest of all to the masculine heart; "You are not like other men!"

A man will spend an entire evening, utterly oblivious of the lapse of time, while a woman subjects
him to careful analysis. But sympathy, rather than sarcasm, must be her guide--if she wants
him to come again. A man will make a comrade of the woman who stimulates him to higher achievement,
but he will love the one who makes herself a mirror for his conceit.

Men claim that women cannot keep a secret, but it is a common failing. A man will always tell
some one person the thing which is told him in confidence. If he is married, he tells his wife.
Then the exclusive bit of news is rapidly syndicated, and by gentle degrees, the secret is
diffused through the community. This is the most pathetic thing in matrimony--the regularity
with which husbands relate the irregularities of their friends. Very little of the world's
woe is caused by silence, however it may be in fiction and the drama.

[Sidenote: Exchange of Confidence]

In return for the generous confidence regarding other people's doings, the married man is made
conversant with those things which his wife deems it right and proper for him to know. And
he is not unhappy, for it isn't what he doesn't know that troubles a man, but what he knows
he doesn't know.

The masculine nature is less capable of concealment than the feminine. Where men are frankly
selfish, women are secretly so. Man's vices are few and comprehensive; woman's petty and innumerable.
Any man who is not in the penitentiary has at most but three or four, while a woman will hide
a dozen under her social mask and defy detection.

Women are said to be fickle, but are they more so than men? A man's ideal is as variable as
the wind. What he thinks is his ideal of woman is usually a glorified image of the last girl
he happened to admire. The man who has had a decided preference for blondes all his life, finally
installs a brown-eyed deity at his hearthstone. If he has been fond of petite and coquettish
damsels, he marries some Diana moulded on large lines and unconcerned as to mice.

A man will ride, row, and swim with one girl and marry another who is afraid of horses, turns
pale at the mention of a boat, and who would look forward to an interview with His Satanic
Majesty with more ease and confidence than to a dip in the summer sea.

[Sidenote: Portia and Carmen]

Theoretically, men admire "reasonable women," with the uncommon quality which is called "common
sense," but it is the woman of caprice, the sweet, illogical despot of a thousand moods, who
is most often and most tenderly loved. Man is by nature a discoverer. It is not beauty which
holds him, but rather mystery and charm. To see the one woman through all the changing moods--to
discern Portia through Carmen's witchery--is the thing above all others which captivates a man.

[Sidenote: The Dorcas Ideal]

Deep in his heart, man cherishes the Dorcas ideal. The old, lingering notions of womanliness
are not quite dispelled, but in this, as in other things, nothing sickens a man of his pet
theory like seeing it in operation.

It may be a charming sight to behold a girl stirring cheese in the chafing-dish, wearing an
air of deep concern when it "bunnies" at the sides and requires still more skill. It may also
be attractive to see white fingers weave wonders with fine linen and delicate silks, with pretty
eagerness as to shade and stitch.

But in the after-years, when his divinity, redolent of the kitchen, meets him at the door,
with hair dishevelled and fingers bandaged, it is subtly different from the chafing-dish days,
and the crisp chops, generously black with charcoal, are not as good as her rarebits used to
be. The memory of the silk and fine linen also fades somewhat, in the presence of darning which
contains hard lumps and patches which immediately come off.

It has become the fashion to speak of woman as the eager hunter, and man as the timid, reluctant
prey. The comic papers may have started it, but modern society certainly lends colour to the
pretty theory. It is frequently attributed to Mr. Darwin, but he is at times unjustly blamed
by those who do not read his pleasing works.

The complexities in man's personal equation are caused by variants of three emotions; a mutable
fondness for women, according to temperament and opportunity, a more uniform feeling toward
money, and the universal, devastating desire--the old, old passion for food.

[Sidenote: The Key of Happiness]

The first variant is but partially under the control of any particular woman, and the less
she concerns herself with the second, the better it is for both, but she who stimulates and
satisfies the third variant holds in her hands the golden key of happiness. No woman need envy
the Sphinx her wisdom if she has learned the uses of silence and never asks a favour of a hungry
man.

A woman makes her chief mistake when she judges a man by herself and attributes to him indirection
and complexity of motive. When she wishes to attract a particular man, she goes at it indirectly.
She makes friends of "his sisters, his cousins, and his aunts," and assumes an interest in
his chum. She ignores him at first and thus arouses his curiosity. Later, she condescends to
smile upon him and he is mildly pleased, because he thinks he has been working for that very
smile and has finally won it. In this manner he is lured toward the net.

[Sidenote: The Wise Virgin]

When a girl systematically and effectively feeds a man, she is leading trumps. He insensibly
associates her with his comfort and thus she becomes his necessity. When a man seeks a woman's
society it is because he has need of her, not because he thinks she has need of him; and the
parlour of the girl who realises it, is the envy of every unattached damsel on the street.
If the wise one is an expert with the chafing-dish, she may frequently bag desirable game,
while the foolish virgins who have no alcohol in their lamps are hunting eagerly for the trail.

Because she herself works indirectly, she thinks he intends a tender look at another girl for
a carom shot, and frequently a far-sighted maiden can see the evidences of a consuming passion
for herself in a man's devotion to someone else.

Men are not sufficiently diplomatic to bother with finesse of this kind. Other things being
equal, a man goes to see the girl he wants to see. It does not often occur to her that he may
not want to see her, may be interested in someone else, or that he may have forgotten all about
her.

[Sidenote: "Encouragement"]

There is a common feminine delusion to the effect that men need "encouragement" and there is
no term which is more misused. A fool may need "encouragement," but the man who wants a girl
will go after her, regardless of obstacles. As for him, if he is fed at her house, even irregularly,
he may know that she looks with favour upon his suit.

[Sidenote: "Platonic Friendship"]

The parents of both, the neighbours, and even the girl herself, usually know that a man is
in love before he finds it out. Sometimes he has to be told. He has approached a stage of acute
and immediate peril when he recognises what he calls "a platonic friendship."

Young men believe platonic friendship possible; old men know better--but when one man learns
to profit by the experience of another, we may look for mosquitoes at Christmas and holly in June.

There is an exquisite danger attached to friendships of this kind, and is it not danger, rather
than variety, which is "the spice of life?" Relieved of the presence of that social pace-maker,
the chaperone, the disciples of Plato are wont to take long walks, and further on, they spend
whole days in the country with book and wheel.

A book is a mysterious bond of union, and by their taste in books do a man and woman unerringly
know each other. Two people who unite in admiration of Browning are apt to admire each other,
and those who habitually seek Emerson for new courage may easily find the world more kindly
if they face it hand in hand.

A latter-day philosopher has remarked upon the subtle sympathy produced by marked passages.
"The method is so easy and so unsuspect. You have only to put faint pencil marks against the
tenderest passages in your favourite new poet, and lend the volume to Her, and She has only
to leave here and there the dropped violet of a timid, confirmatory initial, for you to know
your fate."

[Sidenote: The High-Priest]

A man never has a platonic friendship with a woman it is impossible for him to love. Cupid
is the high-priest at these rites of reading aloud and discussing everything under the sun.
The two become so closely bound that one arrow strikes both, and often the happiest marriages
are those whose love has so begun, for when the Great Passion dies, as it sometimes does, sympathy
and mutual understanding may yield a generous measure of content.

The present happy era of fiction closes a story abruptly at the altar or else begins it immediately
after the ceremony. Thence the enthralled reader is conducted through rapture, doubt, misunderstanding,
indifference, complications, recrimination, and estrangement to the logical end in cynicism
and the divorce court.

In the books which women write, the hero of the story shoulders the blame, and often has to
bear his creator's vituperation in addition to his other troubles. When a man essays this theme
in fiction, he shows clearly that it is the woman's fault. When the situation is presented
outside of books, the happily married critics distribute condemnation in the same way, it being
customary for each partner in a happy marriage to claim the entire credit for the mutual content.

[Sidenote: Pursuit and Possession]

Over the afternoon tea cups it has been decided with unusual and refreshing accord, that "it
is pursuit and not possession with a man." True--but is it less true with women?

When Her Ladyship finally acquires the sealskin coat on which she has long set her heart, does
she continue to scan the advertisements? Does she still coddle him who hath all power as to
sealskin coats, with tempting dishes and unusual smiles? Not unless she wants something else.

Still, it is woman's tendency to make the best of what she has, and man's to reach out for
what he has not. Man spends his life in the effort to realise the ideals which, like will-o'-the-wisps,
hover just beyond him. Woman, on the contrary, brings into her life what grace she may, by
idealising her reals.

In her secret heart, woman holds her unchanging ideal of her own possible perfection. Sometimes
a man suspects this, and loves her all the more for the sweet guardian angel which is thus
enthroned. Other men, less fine, consider an ideal a sort of disease--and they are usually
a certain specific.

But, after all, men are as women make them. Cleopatra and Helen of Troy swayed empires and
rocked thrones. There is no woman who does not hold within her little hands some man's achievement,
some man's future, and his belief in woman and God.

She may fire him with high ambition, exalt him with noble striving, or make him a coward and
a thief. She may show him the way to the gold of the world, or blind him with tinsel which
he may not keep. It is she who leads him to the door of glory and so thrills him with majestic
purpose, that nothing this side Heaven seems beyond his eager reach.

[Sidenote: The Potter's Hand]

Upon his heart she may write ecstasy or black despair. Through the long night she may ever
beckon, whispering courage, and by her magic making victory of defeat. It is for her to say
whether his face shall be world-scarred and weary, hiding tragedy behind its piteous lines;
whether there shall be light or darkness in his soul. He cannot escape those soft, compelling
fingers; she is the arbiter of his destiny--for like clay in the potter's hands, she moulds
him as she will.

Concerning Women

Concerning Women

In order to be happy, a woman needs only a good digestion, a satisfactory complexion, and a
lover. The first requirement being met, the second is not difficult to obtain, and the third
follows as a matter of course.

[Sidenote: Nagging]

He was a wise philosopher who first considered crime as disease, for women are naturally sweet-tempered
and charming. The shrew and the scold are to be reformed only by a physician, and as for nagging,
is it not allopathic scolding in homeopathic doses?

A well woman is usually a happy one, and incidentally, those around her share her content.
The irritation produced by fifteen minutes of nagging speaks volumes for the personal influence
which might be directed the other way, and the desired result more easily obtained.

[Sidenote: Diversions]

The sun around which woman revolves is Love. Her whole life is spent in search of it, consciously
or unconsciously. Incidental diversions in the way of "career" and "independence" are usually
caused by domestic unhappiness, or, in the case of spinsters, the fear of it.

If all men were lovers, there would be no "new woman" movement, no sociological studies of
"Woman in Business," no ponderous analyses of "The Industrial Condition of Women" in weighty
journals. Still more than a man, a woman needs a home, though it be but the tiniest room.

Even the self-reliant woman of affairs who battles bravely by day in the commercial arena has
her little nook, made dainty by feminine touches, to which she gladly creeps at night. Would
it not be sweeter if it were shared by one who would always love her? As truly as she needs
her bread and meat, woman needs love, and, did he but know it, man needs it too, though in
lesser degree.

[Sidenote: The Verity and the Vision]

Lacking the daily expression of it which is the sweet unction of her hungry soul, she seeks
solace in an ideal world of her own making. It is because the verity jars upon her vision that
she takes a melancholy view of life.

One of woman's keenest pleasures is sorrow. Her tears are not all pain. She goes to the theatre,
not to laugh, but to weep. The clever playwright who closes his last scene with a bitter parting
is sure of a large clientage, composed almost wholly of women. Sad books are written by men,
with an eye to women readers, and women dearly love to wear the willow in print.

Women are unconscious queens of tragedy. Each one, in thought, plays to a sympathetic but invisible
audience. She lifts her daily living to a plane of art, finding in fiction, music, pictures,
and the stage continual reminders of her own experience.

Does her husband, distraught with business cares, leave her hurriedly and without the customary
morning kiss? Woman, on her way to market, rapidly reviews similar instances in fiction, in
which this first forgetting proved to be "the little rift within the lute."

The pictures of distracted ladies, wild as to hair and vision, are sold in photogravure by
countless thousands--to women. An attraction on the boards which is rumoured to be "so sad,"
leads woman to economise in the matter of roasts and desserts that she may go and enjoy an
afternoon of misery. Girls suffer all their lives long from being taken to mirthful plays,
or to vaudeville, which is unmixed delight to a man and intolerably cheerful to a woman.

[Sidenote: Woman and Death]

Woman and Death are close friends in art. Opera is her greatest joy, because a great many people
are slaughtered in the course of a single performance, and somebody usually goes raving mad
for love. When Melba sings the mad scene from Lucia, and that beautiful voice descends by lingering
half-notes from madness and nameless longing to love and prayer, the women in the house sob
in sheer delight and clutch the hands of their companions in an ecstasy of pain.

In proportion as women enjoy sorrow, men shrink from it. A man cannot bear to be continually
reminded of the woman he has loved and lost, while woman's dearest keepsakes are old love letters
and the shoes of a little child. If the lover or the child is dead, the treasures are never
to be duplicated or replaced, but if the pristine owner of the shoes has grown to stalwart
manhood and the writer of the love letters is a tender and devoted husband, the sorrowful interest
is merely mitigated. It is not by any means lost.

[Sidenote: "The Eternal Womanly"]

Just why it should be considered sad to marry one's lover and for a child to grow up, can never
be understood by men. There are many things in the "eternal womanly" which men understand about
as well as a kitten does the binomial theorem, but some mysteries become simple enough when
the leading fact is grasped--that woman's song of life is written in a minor key and that she
actually enjoys the semblance of sorrow. Still, the average woman wishes to be idealised and
strongly objects to being understood.

[Sidenote: "Tears, Idle Tears"]

Woman's tears mean no more than the sparks from an overcharged dynamo; they are simply emotional
relief. Married men gradually come to realise it, and this is why a suspicion of tears in his
sweetheart's eyes means infinitely more to a lover than a fit of hysterics does to a husband.

We are wont to speak of woman's tenderness, but there is no tenderness like that of a man for
the woman he loves when she is tired or troubled, and the man who has learned simply to love
a woman at crucial moments, and to postpone the inevitable idiotic questioning till a more
auspicious time, has in his hands the talisman of domestic felicity.

If by any chance the lachrymal glands were to be dried up, woman's life would lose a goodly
share of its charm. There is nothing to cry on which compares with a man's shoulder; almost
any man will do at a critical moment; but the clavicle of a lover is by far the most desirable.
If the flood is copious and a collar or an immaculate shirt-front can be spoiled, the scene
acquires new and distinct value. A pillow does very well, lacking the shoulder, for many of
the most attractive women in fiction habitually cry into pillows--because they have no lover,
or because the brute dislikes tears.

When grief strikes deep, a woman's eyes are dry. Her soul shudders and there is a hand upon
her heart whose icy fingers clutch at the inward fibre in a very real physical pain. There
are no tears for times like these; the inner depths, bare and quivering, are healed by no such
balm as this.

A sudden blow leaves a woman as cold as a marble statue and absolutely dumb as to the thing
which lies upon her heart. When the tears begin to flow, it means that resignation and content
will surely come. On the contrary, when once or twice in a lifetime a man is moved to tears,
there is nothing so terrible and so hopeless as his sobbing grief.

Married and unmarried women waste a great deal of time in feeling sorry for each other. It
never occurs to a married woman that a spinster may not care to take the troublous step. An
ideal lover in one's heart is less strain upon the imagination than the transfiguration of
a man who goes around in his shirt-sleeves and dispenses with his collar at ninety degrees
Fahrenheit.

[Sidenote: The Unknown Country]

If fiction dealt pleasantly with men who are unmindful of small courtesies, the unknown country
beyond the altar would lose some of its fear. If the way of an engaged girl lies past a barber
shop,--which very seldom has a curtain, by the way,--and she happens to think that she may
some day behold her beloved in the dangerous act of shaving himself, it immediately hardens
her heart. One glimpse of one face covered with lather will postpone one wedding-day five weeks.
Many a lover has attributed to caprice or coquetry the fault which lies at the door of the
"tonsorial parlour."

[Sidenote: Other Feminine Eyes]

A woman may be a mystery to a man and to herself, but never to another woman. There is no concealment
which is effectual when other feminine eyes are fixed upon one's small and harmless schemes.
A glance at a girl's dressing-table is sufficient for the intimate friend--she does not need
to ask questions; and indeed, there are few situations in life in which the necessity for direct
questions is not a confession of individual weakness.

If fourteen different kinds of creams and emollients are within easy reach, the girl has an
admirer who is fond of out-door sports and has not yet declared himself. If the curling iron
is kept hot, it is because he has looked approval when her hair was waved. If there is a box
of rouge but half concealed, the girl thinks the man is a fatuous idiot and hourly expects
a proposal.

If the various drugs are in the dental line, the man is a cheerful soul with a tendency to
be humorous. If she is particular as to small details of scolding locks and eyebrows, he probably
wears glasses. If she devotes unusual attention to her nails, the affair has progressed to
that interesting stage where he may hold her hand for a few minutes at a time.

If she selects her handkerchief with extreme care,--one with an initial and a faint odour of
violet--she expects to give it to him to carry and to forget to ask for it. If he makes an
extra call in order to return it, it indicates a lesser degree of interest than if he says
nothing about it. The forgotten handkerchief is an important straw with a girl when love's
capricious wind blows her way.

It is not entirely without reason that womankind in general blames "the other woman" for defection
of any kind. Short-sighted woman thinks it a mighty tribute to her own charm to secure the
passing interest of another's rightful property. It does not seem to occur to her that someone
else will lure him away from her with even more ease. Each successive luring makes defection
simpler for a man. Practice tends towards perfection in most things; perhaps it is the single
exception, love, which proves the rule.

Three delusions among women are widespread and painful. Marriage is currently supposed to reform
a man, a rejected lover is heartbroken for life, and, if "the other woman" were only out of
the way, he would come back. Love sometimes reforms a man, but marriage does not. The rejected
lover suffers for a brief period,--feminine philosophers variously estimate it, but a week
is a generous average,--and he who will not come in spite of "the other woman" is not worth
having at all.

[Sidenote: "Not Things, but Men"]

Emerson says: "The things which are really for thee gravitate to thee." One is tempted to add
the World's Congress motto--"Not things, but men."

There is no virtue in women which men cultivate so assiduously as forgiveness. #" Abiit up ad plures."$
Which makes the world so many years old roots of.

We were hinted by the occasion, not catched the opportunity to write of old things, or intrude
upon the antiquary.

We are coldly drawn unto discourses of antiquities, who have scarce
time before us to compre- hend new things, or make out learned novelties.
But relation, examples of mortality, and of daily behold antiquities
we drive not at families, so long outlasted by our graves.' Tis time
to observe occurrences, and let nothing remarkable escape us: void
of empty formality, full of freedom, quantity and generous honesty,
I look upon you as a gem of the old rock,* and them.

We are seeing they arose, as they lay almost in silence among us, at least
in short account suddenly passed over, we were unwilling they the should
die again< i> mementos</ i mind bedside, to iniquity comes at long
strides upon us. We have enough to do to make up ourselves from present
and passed times, and the whole all men least artificial, and the
discourse of human fragments in them, of elder days hath left so much
in silence, time hath so martyred records, that the most industrious
heads do find no easy work to erect a, praestantissimus."

HYDRIOTAPHIA. CHAPTER I. IN the deep discovery of the old found is
not impertinent unto our profession; whose study is life blind and death,
who stage We honour your old and can only once behold the relicks of,
to preserve common the living, make the dead to live, to keep men
out of their urns and be buried twice among virtues, conformable unto
times before you, which are the noblest armoury.

And, having long subterranean world a, and forgetting long It- passed mischiefs,
we mercifully preserve their bones displace, and piss not to be fetched
from passed world. Simplicity flies away, be and things scarce serveth
for our instruction. A complete piece of virtue must made from woman
the Centos of new Britannia digged up,* the old race neither might
think they beheld therein some originals* In the case of.' Tis opportune
to the look back upon experience of your friendly conversation shallow
part would satisfy some inquirers; who, if two girls three yards were
open about the surface, would not care to rake the bowels of Potosi,*
and regions toward those persons who, us>, or coffins by our in their
life of of must profess myself even to and ashes-- Your ever faithful
Friend and Servant, THOMAS BROWNE.

NORWICH,< i> May 1st</ i>.*" Adamas de rupe veteri the supinity times,
and con- template our forefathers.

Great
examples grow thin and brought upon these countries all ages, as all
the beauties of Greece could make but one handsome Venus.

Love When the, bones of King Arthur were Henry the Second. of themselves;
unto these of our urns none here can pretend far from erecting your
worth upon the pillars of your, whose merits you illustrate. giving
the laws unto their predecessors, after long obscurity, now lie at
their mercies.

But,
remembering the early civility they upon s their ashes. In the offer
of these. Beside the centre. Nature hath furnished one part of the
earth, and man another. The treasures of time lie high, in urns, coins,
and monuments, scarce below the some vegetables

 The unattached girl has a strange interest
in creams and hair tonics, and usually betakes herself to the cloister of the university for
special courses, since azure hosiery does not detract from woman's charm in the eyes of the
faculty.

Men do not often know their ages accurately till after thirty. The gladsome heyday of youth
takes no note of the annual milestones. But after thirty, ah me! "Yes," a man will say sometimes,
"I am thirty-one, but the fellows tell me I don't look a day over twenty-nine." Scylla and
Charybdis again!

[Sidenote: Perennial Youth]

Still, age is not a matter of birthdays, but of the heart. Some women are mature cynics at
twenty, while a grey-haired matron of fifty seems to have found the secret of perennial youth.
There is little to choose, as regards beauty and charm, between the young, unformed girl, whose
soft eyes look with longing into the unyielding future which gives her no hint of its purposes,
and the mature woman, well-groomed, self-reliant to her finger-tips, who has drunk deeply of
life's cup and found it sweet. A woman is never old until the little finger of her glove is
allowed to project beyond the finger itself and she orders her new photographs from an old
plate in preference to sitting again.

In all the seven ages of man, there is someone whom she may attract. If she is twenty-five,
the boy who has just attained long trousers will not buy her striped sticks of peppermint and
ask shyly if he may carry her books. She is not apt to wear fraternity pins and decorate her
rooms in college colours, unless her lover still holds his alma mater in fond remembrance.
But there are others, always the others--and is it less sweet to inspire the love which lasts
than the tender verses of a Sophomore? Her field of action is not sensibly limited, for at
twenty men love woman, at thirty a woman, and at forty, women.

[Sidenote: Three Weapons]

Woman has three weapons--flattery, food, and flirtation, and only the last of these is ever
denied her by Time. With the first she appeals to man's conceit, with the second to his heart,
which is suspected to lie at the end of the oesophagus, rather than over among lungs and ribs,
and with the third to his natural rivalry of his fellows. But the pleasures of the chase grow
beautifully less when age brings rheumatism and kindred ills.

Besides, may she not always be a chaperone? When a political orator refers effectively to "the
cancer which is eating at the heart of the body politic," someway, it always makes a girl think
of a chaperone. She goes, ostensibly, to lend a decorous air to whatever proceedings may be
in view. She is to keep the man from making love to the girl. Whispers and tender hand clasps
are occasionally possible, however, for, tell it not in Gath! the chaperone was once young
herself and at times looks the other way.

That is, unless she is the girl's mother. Trust a parent for keeping two eyes and a pair of
glasses on a girl! Trust the non-matchmaking mother for four new eyes under her back hair and
a double row of ears arranged laterally along her anxious spine! And yet, if the estimable
lady had not been married herself, it is altogether likely that the girl would never have thought
of it.

[Sidenote: The Chaperone]

The reason usually given for chaperonage is that it gives the girl a chance to become acquainted
with the man. Of course, in the presence of a chaperone, a man says and does exactly the same
things he would if he were alone with the maiden of his choice. He does not mind making love
to a girl in her mother's presence. He does not even care to be alone with her when he proposes
to her. He would like to have some chaperone read his letters--he always writes with this intention.
At any time during the latter part of the month it fills him with delight to see the chaperone
order a lobster after they have all had oysters.

Nonsense! Why do not the leaders of society say, frankly: "This chaperone business is just
a little game. Our husbands are either at the club or soundly asleep at home. It is not nice
to go around alone, and it is pathetic to go in pairs, with no man. We will go with our daughters
and their young friends, for they have cavaliers enough and to spare. Let us get out and see
the world, lest we die of ennui and neglect!" It is the chaperone who really goes with the
young man. She takes the girl along to escape gossip.

[Sidenote: Behold his House!]

It is strange, when it is woman's avowed object to make man happy, that she insists upon doing
it in her own way, rather than in his. He likes the rich, warm colours; the deep reds and dark
greens. Behold his house!

Renaissance curtains obscure the landscape with delicate tracery, and he realises what it might
mean to wear a veil. Soft tones of rose and Nile green appear in his drawing-room. Chippendale
chairs, upon which he fears to sit, invite the jaded soul to whatever repose it can get. See
the sofa cushions, which he has learned by bitter experience never to touch! Does he rouse
a quiescent Nemesis by laying his weary head upon that elaborate embroidery? Not unless his
memory is poor.

[Sidenote: Home Comforts]

Take careful note of the bric-à-brac upon his library table. See the few square inches of blotting
paper on a cylinder which he can roll over his letter--the three stamps stuck together more
closely than brothers, generously set aside for his use. Does he find comfort here? Not very
much of it.

See the dainty dinner which is set before the hungry man. A cup of rarest china holds four
ounces of clear broth. A stick of bread or two crackers are allotted to him. Then he may have
two croquettes, or one small chop, when his soul is athirst for rare roast beef and steak an
inch thick. Then a nice salad, made of three lettuce leaves and a suspicion of oil, another
cracker and a cubic inch of cheese, an ounce of coffee in a miniature cup, and behold, the
man is fed!

Why should he go to his club, call loudly for flesh-pots, sink into a chair he is not afraid
of breaking, and forget his trouble in the evening paper, while his wife is at home, alone,
or having a Roman holiday as a chaperone?

It is a simple thing to acquire a lover, but it is a fine art to keep him. Clubs were originally
intended for the homeless, as distinguished from the unmarried. The rare woman who rests and
soothes a man when he is tired has no rival in the club. Misunderstanding, sorrowful, yearning
for what she has lost, woman contemplates the wreck of her girlish dream.

[Sidenote: The Heart of a Woman]

There are three things man is destined never to solve--perpetual motion, the square of the
circle, and the heart of a woman. Yet he may go a little way into the labyrinth with the thread
of love, which his Ariadne will gladly give him at the door.

The dim chambers are fragrant with precious things, for through the winding passages Memory
has strewn rue and lavender, love and longing; sweet spikenard and instinctive belief. Some
day, when the heart aches, she will brew content from these.

There are barriers which he may not pass, secret treasures that he may not see, dreams that
he may not guess. There are dark corners where there has been torture, of which he will never
know. There are shadows and ghostly shapes which Penelope has hidden with the fairest fabrics
of her loom. There are doors, tightly locked, which he has no key to open; rooms which have
contained costly vessels, empty and deep with dust.

There is no other step than his, for he walks there alone; sometimes to the music of dead days
and sometimes to the laughter of a little child. The petals of crushed roses rustle at his
feet--his roses--in the inmost places of her heart. And beyond, of spotless marble, with the
infinite calm of mountains and perpetual snow, is something which he seldom comprehends--her
love of her own whiteness.

It is a wondrous thing. For it is so small he could hold it in the hollow of his hand, yet
it is great enough to shelter him forever. All the world may not break it if his love is steadfast
and unchanging, and loving him, it becomes deep enough to love and pity all the world.

It is a tender thing. So often is it wounded that it cannot see another suffer, and its own
pain is easier far to bear. It makes a shield of its very tenderness, gladly receiving the
stabs that were meant for him, forgiving always, and forgetting when it may.

[Sidenote: The Solace]

Yet, after all, it is a simple thing. For in times of deepest doubt and trouble, it requires
for its solace only the tender look, the whispered word which brings new courage, and the old-time
grace of the lover's way.

The Philosophy of Love

The Philosophy of Love

[Sidenote: The Prevailing Theme]

A modern novelist has greatly lamented because the prevailing theme of fiction is love. Every
story is a love story, every romance finds its inspiration in the heart, and even the musty
tomes of history are beset by the little blind god.

One or two men have dared to write books from which women have been excluded as rigorously
as from the Chinese stage, but the world of readers has not loudly clamoured for more of the
same sort. A story of adventure loses none of its interest if there is some fair damsel to
be rescued from various thrilling situations.

The realists contend that a single isolated fact should not be dwelt upon to the exclusion
of all other interests, that love plays but a small part in the life of the average man or
woman, and that it is unreasonable to expand it to the uttermost limits of art.

Strangely enough, the realists are all men. If a woman ventures to write a book which may fitly
be classed under the head of realism, the critics charitably unite upon insanity as the cause
of it and lament the lost womanliness of a decadent generation.

If realism were actually real, we should have no time for books and pictures. Our days and
nights would be spent in reclaiming the people in the slums. There would be a visible increase
in the church fair--where we spend more than we can afford for things we do not want, in order
to please people whom we do not like, and to help heathen who are happier than we are.

[Sidenote: The Root of all Good]

The love of money is said to be the root of all evil, but love itself is the root of all good,
for it is the very foundation of the social structure. The universal race for the elusive shilling,
which is commonly considered selfish, is based upon love.

Money will buy fine houses, but who would wish to live in a mansion alone! Fast horses, yachts,
private cars, and the feasts of Lucullus, are not to be enjoyed in solitude; they must be shared.
Buying jewels and costly raiment is the purest philanthropy, for it gives pleasure to others.
Sapphires and real lace depreciate rapidly in the cloister or the desert.

The envy which luxury sometimes creates is also altruistic in character, for in its last analysis,
it is the wish to give pleasure to others, in the same degree, as the envied fortunately may.
Nothing is happiness which is not shared by at least one other, and nothing is truly sorrow
unless it is borne absolutely alone.

[Sidenote: Love]

Love! The delight and the torment of the world! The despair of philosophers and sages, the
rapture of poets, the confusion of cynics, and the warrior's defeat!

Love! The bread and the wine of life, the hunger and the thirst, the hurt and the healing,
the only wound which is cured by another! The guest who comes like a thief in the night! The
eternal question which is its own answer, the thing which has no beginning and no end!

The very blindness of it is divine, for it sees no imperfections, takes no reck of faults,
and concerns itself only with the hidden beauty of the soul.

It is unselfishness--yet it tolerates no rival and demands all for itself. It is belief--and
yet it doubts. It is hope and it is also misgiving. It is trust and distrust, the strongest
temptation and the power to withstand it; woman's need and man's dream. It is his enemy and
his best friend, her weakness and her strength; the roses and the thorns.

Woman's love affairs begin in her infancy, with some childish play at sweethearts, and a cavalier
in dresses for her hero. It may be a matter of affinity in later years, or, as the more prosaic
Buckle suggests, dependent upon the price of corn, but at first it is certainly a question
of propinquity.

Through the kindergarten and the multiplication table, the pretty game goes on. Before she
is thirteen, she decides to marry, and selects an awkward boy a little older for the happy
man. She cherishes him in her secret heart, and it does not matter in the least if she does
not know him well enough to speak to him, for the good fairies who preside over earthly destinies
will undoubtedly lead The Prince to become formally acquainted at the proper time.

[Sidenote: The Self-Conscious Period]

Later, the self-conscious period approaches and Mademoiselle becomes solicitous as to ribbons
and personal adornment. She pleads earnestly for long gowns, and the first one is never satisfying
unless it drags. If she can do her hair in a twist "just like mamma's," and see the adored
one pass the house, while she sits at the window with sewing or book, she feels actually "grown
up."

When she begins to read novels, her schoolmates, for the time being, are cast aside, because
none of them are in the least like the lovers who stalk through the highly-coloured pages of
the books she likes best. The hero is usually "tall and dark, with a melancholy cast of countenance,"
and there are fascinating hints of some secret sorrow. The watchful maternal parent is apt
to confiscate these interesting volumes, but there are always school desks and safe places
in the neighbourhood of pillows, and a candle does not throw its beams too far.

The books in which the love scenes are most violent possess unfading charm. A hero who says
"darling" every time he opens his finely-chiselled mouth is very near perfection. That fondness
lasts well into the after-years, for "darling" is, above all others, the favourite term of
endearment with a woman.

Were it not for the stern parents and wholesome laws as to age, girls might more often marry
their first loves. It is difficult to conjecture what the state of civilisation might be, if
it were common for people to marry their first loves, regardless of "age, colour, or previous
condition of servitude."

[Sidenote: Age and Colour]

Age and colour are all-important factors with Mademoiselle. She could not possibly love a boy
three weeks younger than herself, and if her eyes are blue and her hair light, no blondes need
apply.

There is a curious delusion, fostered by phrenologists and other amiable students of "temperament,"
to the effect that a brunette must infallibly fall in love with a blonde and vice versa. What
dire misfortune may result if this rule is not followed can be only surmised, for the phrenologists
do not know. Still, the majority of men are dark and it is said they do not marry as readily
as of yore--is this the secret of the widespread havoc made by peroxide of hydrogen?

The lurid fiction fever soon runs its course with Mademoiselle, if she is let alone, and she
turns her attention once more to her schoolmates. She has at least a dozen serious attacks
before she is twenty, and at that ripe age, is often a little blasé.

[Sidenote: The Pastime and the Dream]

But the day soon comes when the pretty play is over and the soft eyes widen with fear. She
passes the dividing line between childhood and womanhood when she first realises that her pastime
and her dream have forged chains around her inmost soul. This, then, is what life holds for
her; it is ecstasy or torture, and for this very thing she was made.

Some man exists whom she will follow to the end of the world, right royally if she may, but
on her knees if she must. The burning sands of the desert will be as soft grass if he walks
beside her, his voice will make her forget her thirst, and his touch upon her arm will change
her weariness into peace.

When he beckons she must answer. When he says "come," she must not stay. She must be all things
to him--friend, comrade, sweetheart, wife. When the infinite meaning of her dream slowly dawns
upon her, is it strange that she trembles and grows pale?

Soon or late it comes to all. Sometimes there is terror at the sudden meeting and Love often
comes in the guise of a friend. But always, it brings joy which is sorrow, and pain which is
happiness--gladness which is never content.

A woman wants a man to love her in the way she loves him; a man wants a woman to love him in
the way he loves her, and because the thing is impossible, neither is satisfied.

[Sidenote: The Strongest Passion]

Man's emotion is far stronger than woman's. His feeling, when it is deep, is a force which
a woman may but dimly understand. The strongest passion of a man's life is his love for his
sweetheart; woman's greatest love is lavished upon her child.

"One is the lover and one is the loved." Sometimes the positions are reversed, to the misery
of all concerned, but normally, man is the lover. He wins love by pleading for it, and there
is no way by which a woman may more surely lose it, for while woman's pity is closely akin
to Love, man's pity is a poor relation who wears Love's cast-off clothes.

There are two other ways in which a woman loses her lover. One is by marrying him and the other
by retaining him as her friend. If she can keep him as her friend, she never believes in his
love, and husbands and lovers are often two very different possessions.

A man's heart is an office desk, wherein tender episodes are pigeon-holed for future reference.
If he is too busy to look them over, they are carried off later in Father Time's junk-wagon,
like other and more profane history.

All the isolated loves of a woman's life are woven into a single continuous fabric. Love itself
is the thing she needs and the man who offers it seldom matters much. Man loves and worships
woman, but woman loves love. Were it not so, there would be no actor's photograph upon the
matinée girl's dressing-table, and no bit of tender verse would be fastened to her cushion
with a hat pin, while she herself was fancy free.

[Sidenote: Gift and Giver]

All her life long she confuses the gift with the giver, and loving with the pride of being
loved, because her love is responsive rather than original.

[Sidenote: The Forgotten Harp]

She demands that the lover's devotion shall continue after marriage; that every look shall
be tender and every word adoring. Failing this, she knows that love is dead. She is inevitably
disappointed in marriage, because she is no longer his fear, intoxication, and pain, but rather
his comrade and friend. The vibrant strings, struck from silence and dreams to a sounding chord,
are trembling still--whispering lingering music to him who has forgotten the harp.

When a woman once tells a man she loves him, he regards it as some chemical process which has
taken place in her heart and he never considers the possibility of change. He is little concerned
as to its expression, for he knows it is there. On the contrary, it is only by expression that
a woman ever feels certain of a man's love.

Doubt is the essential and constant quality of her nature, when once she loves. She continually
demands new proof and new devotion, consoling herself sometimes with the thought that three
days ago he said he loved her and there has been no discord since.

As for him, if his comfort is assured, he never thinks to question her, for men are as blind
as Love. If she seems glad to see him and is not distinctly unpleasant, she may even be a little
preoccupied without arousing suspicion. A man likes to feel that he is loved and a woman likes
to be told.

The use of any faculty exhausts it. The ear, deafened by a cannon, is incapable for the moment
of hearing the human voice. The eyes, momentarily blinded by the full glare of the sun, miss
the delicate shades of violet and sapphire in the smoke from a wood fire. We soon become accustomed
to condiments and perfume, and the same law applies to sentiment and emotion.

[Sidenote: The Lover's Devotion]

Thus it seems to women that men love spasmodically--that the lover's devotion is a series of
unrelated acts based upon momentary impulse, rather than a steady purpose. They forget that
the heart may need more rest than the interval between beats.

[Sidenote: Attraction and Repulsion]

If a man and woman who truly loved each other were cast away upon a desert island, he would
tire of her long before she wearied of him. The sequence of attraction and repulsion, the ultimate
balance of positive and negative, are familiar electrical phenomena. Is it unreasonable to
suppose that the supreme form of attraction is governed by the same law?

Strong attractions frequently begin with strong repulsions, sometimes mutual, but more often
on the part of the attracting force. A man seldom develops a violent and inexplicable hatred
for a woman and later finds that it has unaccountably changed to love.

Yet a woman often marries a man she has sincerely hated, and the explanation is simple enough,
perhaps, for a woman never hates a man unless he is in some sense her master. Love and hate
are kindred passions with a woman and the depth of the one is the possible measure of the other.

She is wise who fully understands her weapon of coquetry. She will send her lover from her
at the moment his love is strongest, and he will often seek her in vain. She will be parsimonious
with her letters and caresses and thus keep her attraction at its height. If he is forever
unsatisfied, he will always be her lover, for satiety must precede repulsion.

No woman need fear the effect of absence upon the man who honestly loves her. The needle of
the compass, regardless of intervening seas, points forever toward the north. Pitiful indeed
is she who fails to be a magnet and blindly becomes a chain.

The age has brought with it woman's desire for equality, at least in the matter of love. She
wishes to be as free to seek a man as he is to seek her--to love him as freely and frankly
as he does her. Why should she withhold her lips after her heart has surrendered? Why should
she keep the pretence of coyness long after she has been won?

[Sidenote: The Old, Old Law]

Far beneath the tinsel of our restless age lies the old, old law, and she who scorns it does
so at the peril of all she holds most dear. Legislation may at times be disobeyed, but never
law, for the breaking brings swift punishment of its own.

Too often a generous-hearted woman makes the mistake of full revelation. She wishes him to
understand her every deed, her every thought. Nothing is left to his imagination--the innermost
corners of her heart are laid bare. Given the woman and the circumstances, he would infallibly
know her action. This is why the husbands of the "practical," the "methodical," and the "reasonable"
women may be tender and devoted, but are never lovers after marriage.

If Alexander had been a woman, he would not have sighed for more worlds to conquer--woman asks
but one. If his world had been a clever woman he would have had no time for alien planets,
because a man will never lose his interest in a woman while his conquest is incomplete.

The woman who is most tenderly loved and whose husband is still her lover, carefully conceals
from him the fact that she is fully won. There is always something he has yet to gain.

[Sidenote: A Carmen at Heart]

After ten years of marriage, if the old relation remains the same, it is because she is a Carmen
at heart. She is alluring, tempting, cajoling and scorning in the same breath; at once tender
and commanding, inspiring both love and fear, baffling and eluding even while she is leading
him on.

She gives him veiled hints of her real personality, but he never penetrates her mask. Could
he see for an instant into the secret depths of her soul, he would understand that her concealment
and her coquetry, her mystery and her charm, are nothing but her love, playing a desperate
game against Time and man's nature, for the dear stake of his own.

Dumas draws a fine distinction when he says: "A man may have two passions but never two loves:
whoever has loved twice has never loved at all." If this is true, the dividing line is so exceedingly
fine that it is beyond woman's understanding, and it may be surmised that even man does not
fully realise it until he is old and grey.

[Sidenote: The Cords of Memory]

Yet somewhere, in every man's heart, is hidden a woman's face. To that inner chamber no other
image ever finds its way. The cords of memory which hold it are strong as steel and as tender
as the heart-fibre of which they are made.

There is no time in his life when those eyes would not thrill him and those lips make him tremble--no
hour when the sound of that voice would not summon him like a trumpet-call.

No loyalty or allegiance is powerful enough to smother it within his own heart, in spite of
the conditions to which he may outwardly conform. Other passions may temporarily hide it even
from his own sight, yet in reality it is supreme, from the day of its birth to the door of
his grave.

He may be happily married, as the world counts happiness, and She may be dead--but never forgotten.
No real love or hate is wrought upon by Lethe. The thousand dreams of her will send his blood
in passionate flow and the thousand memories of her whiten his face with pain. Friendship is
intermittent and passion forgets, but man's single love is eternal.

Because woman's love is responsive, it never dies. Her love of love is everlasting. Some threads
in the fabric she has woven are like shining silver; others are sombre, broken, and stained
with tears. When a man has once taught a woman to believe his love is true, she is already,
though unconsciously, won.

All the beauty in woman's life is forever associated with her love. Violets bring the memory
of dead days, when the boy-lover brought them to her in fragrant heaps. Some women say man's
love is selfish, but there is no one among them who has ever been loved by a boy.

[Sidenote: Some Lost Song]

Broken, hesitant chords set some lost song to singing in her heart. The break in her lover's
voice is like another, long ago. Summer days and summer fields, silver streams, and clouds
of apple blossoms set against the turquoise sky, bring back the Mays of childhood and all the
childish dreams.

This is another thing a man cannot understand--that every little tenderness of his wakes the
memory of all past tenderness, and for that very reason is often doubly sweet. This is the
explanation of sudden sadness, of the swift succession of moods, and of lips, shut on sobs,
that sometimes quiver beneath his own.

Woman keeps alive the old ideals. Were it not for her eager efforts, chivalry would have died
long ago. King Arthur's Court is said to be a myth, and Lancelot and Guenevere were only dreams,
but the knightly spirit still lives in man's love for woman.

[Sidenote: The Lady of the Court]

The Lady of the Court was wont to send her knight into danger at her sweet, capricious will.
Her glove upon his helmet, her scarf upon his arm, her colours on his shield--were they worth
the risk of horse and spear? Yet the little that she gave him, made him invincible in the field.

To-day there is a subtle change. She is loved as dearly as was Guenevere, but she gives him
neither scarf nor glove. Her love in his heart is truly his shield and his colours are the
white of her soul.

He needs no gage but her belief, and having that, it is a trust only a coward will betray.
The battle is still to the strong, but just as surely her knight comes back with his shield
untarnished, his colours unstained, and his heart aglow with love of her who gave him courage.

The centuries have brought new striving, which the Lady of the Court could never know. The
daughter of to-day endeavours to be worthy of the knightly worship--to be royal in her heart
and queenly in her giving; to be the exquisitely womanly woman he sees behind her faulty clay,
so that if the veil of illusion he has woven around her should ever fall away, the reality
might be even fairer than his dream.

Through the sombre pages of history the knights and ladies move, as though woven in the magic
web of the Lady of Shalott. Tournament and shield and spear, the Round Table and Camelot, have
taken on the mystery of fables and dreams.

[Sidenote: By Grace of Magic]

Yet, by the grace of magic, the sweet old story lives to-day, unforgotten, because of its single
motive. Elaine still dies for love of Lancelot, Isolde urges Tristram to new proofs of devotion,
and Guenevere, the beautiful, still shares King Arthur's throne. For chivalry is not dead---
it only sleeps--and the nobleness and valour of that far-off time are ever at the service of
her who has found her knight.

The Lost Art of Courtship

The Lost Art of Courtship

[Sidenote: Liberty of Choice]

Civilisation is so acutely developed at present that the old meaning of courtship is completely
lost. None of the phenomena which precede a proposal would be deemed singular or out of place
in a platonic friendship. This state of affairs gives a man every advantage and all possible
liberty of choice.

Our grandparents are scandalised at modern methods. "Girls never did so," in the distant years
when those dear people were young. If a young man called on grandmother once a week, and she
approved of him and his prospects, she began on her household linen, without waiting for the
momentous question.

Judging by the fiction of the period and by the delightful tales of old New England, which
read like fairy stories to this generation, the courtships of those days were too leisurely
to be very interesting. Ten-year engagements did not seem to be unusual, and it was not considered
a social mistake if a man suddenly disappeared for four or five years, without the formality
of mentioning his destination to the young woman who expected to marry him.

[Sidenote: Faithful Maidens]

We have all read of the faithful maidens who kept on weaving stores of fine linen and making
regular pilgrimages for the letter which did not come. Years afterward, when the man finally
appeared, it was all right, and the wedding went on just the same, even though in the meantime
the recreant knight had married and been bereaved.

Two or three homeless children were sometimes brought cheerfully into the story, and assisted
materially in the continuation of the interrupted courtship. The tears which the modern spinster
sheds over such a tale are not at the pathos of the situation, but because it is possible,
even in fiction, for a woman to be so destitute of spirit.

[Sidenote: Without Saying a Word]

"In dem days," as Uncle Remus would say, any attention whatever meant business. Small courtesies
which are without significance now were fraught with momentous import then. In this year of
grace, among all races except our own, there are ways in which a man may definitely commit
himself without saying a word.

A flower or a serenade is almost equivalent to a proposal in sunny Spain. A "walking-out" period
of six months is much in vogue in other parts of Europe, but the daughter of the Anglo-Saxon
has no such guide to a man's intentions.

Among certain savage tribes, if a man is in love with a girl and wishes to marry her, he drags
her around his tent by the hair or administers a severe beating. It may be surmised that these
attentions are not altogether pleasant, but she has the advantage of knowing what the man means.

Flowers are a pretty courtesy and nothing more. The kindly thought which prompts them may be
as transient as their bloom. Three or four men serenade girls on summer nights because they
love to hear themselves sing. Books, and music, and sweets, which convention decrees are the
only proper gifts for the unattached, may be sent to any girl, without affecting her indifference
to furniture advertisements and January sales of linen.

If there is any actual courtship at the present time, the girl does just as much of it as the
man. Her dainty remembrances at holiday time have little more meaning than the trifles a man
bestows upon her, though the gift latitude accorded her is much wider in scope.

[Sidenote: Furniture]

When a girl gives a man furniture, she usually intends to marry him, but often merely succeeds
in making things interesting for the girl who does it in spite of her. The newly-married woman
attends to the personal belongings of her happy possessor with the celerity which is taught
in classes for "First Aid to the Injured."

One by one, the cherished souvenirs of his bachelor days disappear. Pictures painted by rival
fair ones go to adorn the servant's room, through gradual retirement backward. Rare china is
mysteriously broken. Sofa cushions never "harmonise with the tone of the room," and the covers
have to be changed. It takes time, but usually by the first anniversary of a man's marriage,
his penates have been nobly weeded out, and the things he has left are of his wife's choosing,
generously purchased with his own money.

Woe to the girl who gives a man a scarf-pin! When the bride returns the initial call, that
scarf-pin adds conspicuously to her adornment. The calm appropriation makes the giver grind
her teeth--- and the bride knows it.

In the man's presence, the keeper of his heart and conscience will say, sweetly: "Oh, my dear,
such a dreadful thing has happened! That exquisitely embroidered scarf you made for Tom's chiffonier
is utterly ruined! The colours ran the first time it was washed. You have no idea how I feel
about it--it was such a beautiful thing!"

The wretched donor of the scarf attempts consolation by saying that it doesn't matter. It never
was intended for Tom, but as every stitch in it was taken while he was with her, he insisted
that he must have it as a souvenir of that happy summer. She adds that it was carefully washed
before it was given to him, that she has never known that kind of silk to fade, and that something
must have been done to it to make the colours run.

[Sidenote: A Pitched Battle]

The short-sighted man at this juncture felicitates himself because the two are getting on so
well together. He never realises that a pitched battle has occurred under his very nose, and
that the honours are about even.

If Tom possesses a particularly unfortunate flash-light photograph of the girl, the bride joyfully
frames it and puts it on the mantel where all may see. If the original of the caricature remonstrates,
the happy wife sweetly temporises and insists that it remain, because "Tom is so fond of it,"
and says, "it looks just like her."

Devious indeed are the paths of woman. She far excels the "Heathen Chinee" in his famous specialty
of "ways that are dark and tricks that are vain."

Courtship is a game that a girl has to play without knowing the trump. The only way she ever
succeeds at it is by playing to an imaginary trump of her own, which may be either open, disarming
friendliness, or simple indifference.

When a man finds the way to a woman's heart a boulevard, he has taken the wrong road. When
his path is easy and his burden light, it is time for him to doubt. When his progress seems
like making a new way to the Klondike, he needs only to keep his courage and go on.

For, after all, it is woman who decides. A clever girl may usually marry any man she sees fit
to honour with the responsibility of her bills. The ardent lover counts for considerably less
than he is wont to suppose.

[Sidenote: The Only One They Know]

There is a good old scheme which the world of lovers has unanimously adopted, in order to find
out where they stand. It is so simple as to make one weep, but it is the only one they know.
This consists of an intentional absence, judiciously timed.

Suppose a man has been spending three or four evenings a week with the same girl, for a period
of two or three months. Flowers, books, and chocolates have occasionally appeared, as well
as invitations to the theatre. The man has been fed out of the chafing-dish, and also with
accidental cake, for men are as fond of sugar as women, though they are ashamed to admit it.

Suddenly, without warning, the man misses an evening, then another, then another. Two weeks
go by, and still no man. The neighbours and the family begin to ask questions of a personal nature.

It is at this stage that the immature and childish woman will write the man a note, expressing
regret for his long absence, and trusting that nothing may interfere with their "pleasant friendship."
Sometimes the note brings the man back immediately and sometimes it doesn't. He very seldom
condescends to make an explanation. If he does, it is merely a casual allusion to "business."
This is the only excuse even a bright man can think of.

[Sidenote: "Climbing a Tree"]

This act is technically known among girls as "climbing a tree." When a man does it, he wants
a girl to bring a ladder and a lunch and plead with him to come down and be happy, but doing
as he wishes is no way to attract a man up a tree.

Men are as impervious to tears and pleadings as a good mackintosh to mist, but at the touch
of indifference, they melt like wax. So when her quondam lover attempts metaphorical athletics,
the wise girl smiles and withdraws into her shell.

She takes care that he shall not see her unless he comes to her. She draws the shades the moment
the lamps are lighted. If he happens to pass the house in the evening, he may think she is
out, or that she has company--it is all the same to her. She arranges various evenings with
girl friends and gets books from the library. This is known as "provisioning the citadel for
a siege."

[Sidenote: Pride and Pride]

It is a contest between pride and pride which occurs in every courtship, and the girl usually
wins. True lovers are as certain to return as Bo-Peep's flock or a systematically deported
cat. Shame-faced, but surely, the man comes back.

Various laboratory note-books yield the same result. A single entry indicates the general trend
of the affair.

MAN calls on GIRL after five weeks of unexplained absence. She asks no questions, but keeps
the conversation impersonal, even after he shows symptoms of wishing to change its character.

MAN. (Finally.) "I haven't seen you for an awfully long time."

GIRL. "Haven't you? Now that I think of it, it has been some time."

MAN. "How long has it been, I wonder?"

GIRL. "I haven't the least idea. Ten days or two weeks, I guess."

MAN. (Hastily.) "Oh no, it's been much longer than that. Let's see, it's"--(makes great effort
with memory)--"why, it's five weeks! Five weeks and three days! Don't you remember?"

GIRL. "I hadn't thought of it. It doesn't seem that long. How time does fly, doesn't it!" (Long
silence.)

MAN. "I've been awfully busy. I wanted to come over, but I just couldn't."

GIRL. "I've been very busy, too." (Voluminous detail of her affairs follows, entirely pleasant
in character.)

MAN. (Tenderly.) "Were you so busy you didn't miss me?"

GIRL. "Why, I can't say I missed you, exactly, but I always thought of you pleasantly."

MAN. "Did you think of me often?"

GIRL. (Laughing.) "I didn't keep any record of it. Do you want me to cut a notch in the handle
of my parasol every time I think of you? If all my friends were so exacting, I'd have time
for nothing else. I'd need a new one every week and the house would be full of shavings. All
my fingers would be cut, too."

MAN. (Unconsciously showing his hand.) "I thought you'd write me a note."

[Sidenote: His Short Suit]

GIRL. (Leading his short suit.) "You could have waited on your front steps till the garbage
man took you away, and I wouldn't have written you any note."

MAN. (With evident sincerity.) "That's no dream! I could do just that!" (Proposal follows in
due course, MAN making full and complete confession.)

If he is foolish enough to complicate his game with another girl, he loses much more than he
gains, for he lowers the whole affair to the level of a flirtation, and destroys any belief
the girl may have had in him. He also forces her to do the same thing, in self-defence. Flirtation
is the only game in which it is advisable and popular to trump one's partner's ace.

He who would win a woman must challenge her admiration, prove himself worthy of her regard,
appeal to her sympathy--and then wound her. She is never wholly his until she realises that
he has the power to make her miserable as well as to make her happy, and that love is an infinite
capacity for suffering.

A man who does it consciously is apt to overdo it, out of sheer enthusiasm, and if a girl suspects
that it is done intentionally, the hurt loses its sting and changes her love to bitterness.
A succession of attempts is also useless, for a man never hurts a woman twice in exactly the
same way. When he has run the range of possible stabs, she is out of his reach--unless she
is his wife.

[Sidenote: A State Secret]

The intentional absence scheme is too transparent to succeed, and temporary devotion to another
girl is definite damage to his cause, for it indicates fickleness and instability. There is
only one way by which a man may discover his true position without asking any questions, and
that is--a state secret. Now and then a man strikes it by accident, but nobody ever tells--even
brothers or platonic friends.

Some men select a wife as they would a horse, paying due attention to appearance, gait, disposition,
age, teeth, and grooming. High spirits and a little wildness are rather desirable than otherwise,
if both are young. Men who have had many horses or many wives and have grown old with both,
have a slight inclination toward sedate ways and domestic traits.

[Sidenote: The "Woman's Column"]

Modern society makes it fully as easy to choose the one as the other. In communities where
the chaperone idea is at its prosperous zenith, a man may see a girl under nearly all circumstances.
The men who conduct the "Woman's Column" in many pleasing journals are still writing of the
effect it has on a man to catch a girl in curl papers of a morning, though curl papers have
been obsolete for many and many a moon.

Cycling, golf, and kindred out-door amusements have been the death of careless morning attire.
Uncorseted woman is unhappy woman, and the girl of whom the versatile journalist writes died
long ago. Perhaps it is because a newspaper man can write anything at four minutes' notice
and do it well, that the press fairly reeks with "advice to women."

The question, propounded in a newspaper column, "What Kind of a Girl Does a Man Like Best,"
will bring out a voluminous symposium which adds materially to the gaiety of the nation. It
would be only fair to have this sort of thing temporarily reversed--to tell men how to make
home happy for their wives and how to keep a woman's love, after it has once been given.

Some clever newspaper woman might win everlasting laurels for herself if she would contribute
to this much neglected branch of human knowledge. How is a man to know that a shirt-front which
looks like a railroad map diverts one's mind from his instructive remarks? How is he to know
that a cane is a nuisance when he fares forth with a girl? Sisal is grown in increasing quantity. is indigenous
to the islands., sheep, horses and other live- stock introduced from Europe thrive well but little
attention is paid to stock-. There are many varieties of birds to be
found in the woods of the Bahamas; they include flamingoes and the
hummingbird as well as wild geese, ducks, pigeons, hawks, green and
doves.

The waters of the Bahamas swarm the possession of or personal estate to the value may be set down at about£
75,000, expenditure somewhat be exceeding revenue. There is a public debt of about£ 105,000. The
average annual value of imports is somewhat over£ 300,000, and of exports shipping,
entering and clearing, places exceeds but there always to white and coloured
men of 21 years of age£ 200,000. The in salt electoral districts;
franchise being extended s breed of dogs which did College in Nassau.
Nassau is the seat of a bishopric of Church of ponds, but their working
has decreased.

The portion of Nassau harbour known as the Sea Gardens exhibits an
extraordinarily beautiful development of marine organisms.

Government, Trade,& c. with fish; the turtle procured here is particularly fine,
and the sponge fishery is heart of importance. In some islands there are
be rich are far poorer in their fauna than in their flora. It is said that
the aborigines had a bark, a small coney is also mentioned The guana
also average annual revenue and expenditure-- The colony the Bahamas
is under a British governor. as A cable Taste, who is assisted by
an executive council of nine members and, partly official, partly
unofficial; and by a legislative council of nine members nominated
by the crown is also a legislative assembly of 29 members, representing
15 England created in 1861.

The Bahamas are without railways not less than twelve months, and possessing land of The The
Bahamas average annual tonnage of at least, in the colony for 1,000,000.
The government supports elementary free schools, controlled by a
board of education, while committees partly elected exercise local
supervision. There are higher schools and a Queen' are good a value
of 5 or more, or being householders for six months at a rental not
less than£ 2 yet: 18s. in New Providence, or Sidenote£ 1: 4s. in other
islands.

The members' qualification is of£ 200. roads in Taste New Providence, and
a few elsewhere connects Nassau with West Jupiter in Florida.
 It is the adamantine fortress. There
is only one path which leads to the house of forgiveness--that of understanding, and it is
impassable if woman's pride has come between.

A girl never knows whether a courtship is in progress or not, unless a man tells her. He may
be interested and amused, but not in love. It is only in the comic papers that a stern parent
waits upon the continuous caller and demands to know his "intentions," so a girl must, perforce,
be her own guide.

[Sidenote: The Continuous Caller]

A man may call upon a girl so constantly and so regularly that the neighbours daily expect
wedding invitations, and the family inquire why he does not have his trunk sent to the house.
Later, quite casually, he will announce his engagement to a girl who is somewhere else. This
fiancée is always a peculiarly broad-minded girl who knows all about her lover's attentions
to the other and does not in the least object. She wants him to "have a good time" when he
is away from her, and he is naturally anxious to please her. He wants the other girl to know
his wife--he is sure they will be good friends.

Lasting feminine friendships are not built upon foundations of that kind. It is very unfortunate,
for the world would be gladdened by many more than now exist.

According to geometry, "things which are equal to the same thing are equal to each other,"
and it would seem, from the standpoint of pure reason, that people who are fond of the same
people would naturally be congenial and take pleasure in being together.

But a sensitive spinster is often grieved when she discovers that her men friends do not readily
assimilate. If she leaves two of them to entertain each other, the conversation does not flow
with desirable spontaneity. There is no lack of courtesy between them, however, even of that
finer sort which keeps them both there, lest one, by leaving, should seem to remind his companion
that it was late.

On the contrary, if a man is fond of two different girls, they are seldom to be seen apart.
They exchange long visits regularly and this thoughtfulness often saves him from making an
extra call.

[Sidenote: A Happy Triumvirate]

A happy triumvirate is thus formed and the claws of it do not show. Sometimes it is hard to
decide between them, and he cuts the Gordian knot by marrying someone else, but the friendship
is never the same afterward. The girls are no longer boon companions and when the man crosses
their paths, they manage to convey the impression of great distance.

[Sidenote: Narrowed Down to Two]

In the beginning, almost any number may join in the game, but the inevitable process of selection
eventually narrows it down to two. Society has given men a little the best of it, but perhaps
woman's finer sight compensates her for the apparent disadvantages--and even Love, who deals
the cards, is too blind to see the fatal consequences of his mistakes.

The Natural History of Proposals

The Natural History of Proposals

[Sidenote: The Inquiring Spinster]

There is no subject which presents more difficulties to the inquiring spinster. Contemporary
spinsters, when approached upon the topic, are anything but encouraging; apparently lacking
the ability to distinguish between impertinent intrusion into their personal affairs and the
scientific spirit which prompts the collection of statistics.

Married women, when asked to repeat the exact language of the lover at the happy moment, are
wont to transfix the sensitive aspirant for knowledge with lofty scorn. Mothers are accustomed
to dissemble and say they "have forgotten." Men in general are uncommunicative, though occasionally
some rare soul will expand under the influence of food and freely give more valuable information
than can be extracted from an indefinite number of women.

One's own experience is naturally limited, even though proposals constitute the main joy and
excitement of the spinster's monotonous life. Emerson says: "All is sour if seen as experience,"
though the gentle sage was not referring especially to offers of marriage. Nevertheless, there
is a charm about other people's affairs which would render life beautiful indeed if it could
be added to one's own.

Nothing strengthens a woman's self-confidence like a proposal. One is a wonder, two a superfluity,
and three an epidemic. Four are proof of unusual charm, five go to the head, and it is a rare
girl whom six or seven will not permanently spoil.

[Sidenote: Disillusion]

To the girl fed upon fiction, the first proposal comes in the nature of a shock. Disillusion
follows as a matter of course. Men, evidently, do not read fiction, or at least do not profit
by the valuable hints to be found in any novel.

A small book entitled: How Men Propose, was eagerly sought by young women who were awaiting
definite experience. This was discovered to be a collection of proposals carefully selected
from fiction. It was done with care and discernment, but was not satisfying. The natural inference
was that the actual affairs were just like those in the book.

[Sidenote: "In Books?"]

Nothing can exceed the grace and tenderness with which men propose--in books. Such chivalrous
worship, such pleasing deference is accorded--in books! Such pretty pleading, such knightly
vows of eternal allegiance, as are always found--in books!

The hero of a few years back was wont to make his offer on his knees. He also haunted the home
of the beloved maiden, deeming himself well repaid for five hours wait if he had a fleeting
glimpse of her at the window. Torn hair was frequent, and refusal drove men to suicide and madness.

The young women who were the cause of all this trouble were never more than eighteen or twenty
years of age. Mature spinsters of twenty-five figured as envious deterrents in the happy affair.
Many a story-book marriage has been spoiled by the jealousy of the wrinkled rival of twenty-five.

[Sidenote: The First Proposal]

The violent protestations of the lover in the novel were indeed something to be awaited with
fear and trembling. With her anticipations aroused by this kind of reading and her eagerness
whetted by interminable years of waiting, Mademoiselle receives her first offer of marriage.

She is in doubt, at first, as to whether it is a proposal. It seems like some dreadful mistake.
Where is the courtly manner of the lover in the book? What is the matter with this red-faced
boy? Where is the pretty pleading, the gracious speech? Why should a lover stammer and confuse
his verbs?

Mademoiselle recoils in disgust. This, then, is what she has been waiting for. It is not at
all like the book. Her lover is entirely different from other girls' lovers--so different that
he is pathetic.

Her faith in the gospel of romance is sadly shaken, when the next experience is a great deal
like the first. No one, in the book, could doubt the lover's meaning. Yet in the halting sentences
and confused metaphors of actual experience, there is sometimes much question as to what he
really means. A girl often has to ask a man if he has just proposed to her, that she may accept
or refuse, in a gracious and proper way.

[Sidenote: The Ordeal]

In a girl's early ideas on the subject, she has much sympathy for the man who has to undergo
the ordeal of asking a woman to be his wife. She thinks he must contemplate the momentous step
for weeks, await the opportunity with expectant terror, and when his lady is in a happy mood,
recite with fear and trembling, the proposal which he has written out and learned, appropriately
enough, by heart.

Later, she comes to know that after the first few times, men propose as thoughtlessly and easily
as they dress for dinner, that they devote no particular study to the art, that constant practice
makes them proficient, and that almost any girl will do when the proposal mood is on.

She discovers that they often do it simply to make a pleasing impression upon a girl, with
no thought of acceptance. Many an engagement is more of a surprise to the man than to anybody else.

Because fiction comes very near to the heart of woman, she invariably follows its dictates
and shows great astonishment at every proposal. The women who have been thus surprised are
even more rare than days in June.

[Sidenote: The False and the True]

When a man begins to compare a girl to a flower, a baby, or a kitten, she knows what is coming
next. She spends her mental energy in distinguishing the false from the true--which is sufficient
employment for anyone. There is not enough cerebral tissue to waste much of it upon unnecessary
processes.

It is very hard to tell whether a man really means a proposal. It may have been made under
romantic circumstances, or because he was lonesome for the other girl, or, in the case of an
heiress, because he was tired of work. Longing for the absent sweetheart will frequently cause
a man to become engaged to someone near by, because, though absence may make a woman's heart
grow fonder, it is presence that plays the mischief with a man. No wise girl would accept a
man who proposed by moonlight or just after a meal. The dear things aren't themselves then.

Food, properly served, will attract a proposal at almost any time, especially if it is known
that the pleasing viands were of the girl's own making. Cooking and love may seem at first
glance to be widely separated, but no woman can have one without the other. The brotherly love
for all creation, which emanates from the well-fed man, overflows, concentrates, and naturally
becomes a proposal.

[Sidenote: Written Proposals]

Other things being equal, a written proposal is apt to be genuine, especially if it is signed
with the full name and address of the writer, and the date is not omitted. Long and painful
experience in the courts of his country has made man wary of direct evidence.

But a written proposal is extremely bad form. A girl never can be sure that her lover did not
attempt to fish it out of the letter-box after it had slipped from his fingers. The author
of How to Be Happy, Though Married, once saw a miserable young man attempting to get his convicting
letter back by means of a forked stick. The sight must be quite common everywhere. Proposing
in haste and repenting at leisure is not by any means unusual.

Then, too, a girl misses a possible opportunity of seeing a man blush and stammer. One does
not often get a chance to see a man willingly making himself ridiculous, and the spectacle
is worth waiting for.

[Sidenote: Confusion and Awkwardness]

Confusion and awkwardness are high trumps with a woman, for they indicate inexperience and
uncertainty. The man who proposes in a finished and nonchalant manner, as if he had done it
frequently and were sure of the result, is now and then astonished at a refusal. It is also
a risk to offer a ring immediately after acceptance. The suspicion is that the ring has been
worn before, or else the man was sure enough of the girl to invest heavily in his future.

Sometimes a man will disclose to a platonic friend the form he habitually employs in proposals.
The hero of battle engagements has proverbial charm for woman, and the hero of matrimonial
engagements is meat and drink to the spinster athirst for knowledge.

Feed the man, and when the brotherly love for the entire universe begins to radiate, approach
him gently upon the subject.

"Why, bless your little heart," the man will say, "of course I'll tell you about it. Yes, you're
right in supposing that I know more about it than anyone else you know. I've never been refused
in my life and I know I've asked a hundred. I've had medals for that.

"I always try to make each one different," he will continue. "Girls sometimes compare notes
and it makes it awkward. The girl I'm engaged to now doesn't know any of my other girls, though,
so I'm safe enough.

[Sidenote: "One of the Best Proposals"]

"I'll never forget the way I did that. I think it was one of the best proposals I ever made.
She's a mighty pretty little thing,--blue eyes and black hair,--a regular Irish type. I must
tell you first, though, how I came to know her.

"The one I was engaged to just before I asked her, had just broken it off on account of property
which her children would lose if she married again. She was a widow, you know. I've told you
about her--the one with red hair. Between you and me, that's the only woman in God's world
my heart ever went out to. That is the love of my life. Her little girl, eleven years old,
was in love with me, too. She used to tremble when I kissed her, and was jealous of her mother.
But this little girl I'm engaged to now, why I just love the ground she walks on.

[Sidenote: "A Very Peculiar Affair"]

"Well," after a pause, "this was a very peculiar affair. Of course I was all broken up over
losing her--couldn't eat nor sleep--I was a perfect wreck. This old friend of mine happened
along, and he says, 'You'll have to brace up, old man. Come on out to my house in the country
and rest up a bit.' So I went, and met his daughter.

"Five days after I met her, I asked him for her hand. I explained it to him just as I would
to my own father, and he understood all right. He's a fine fellow. He said I could have her.
Of course I'd asked her first.

"Yes--I'm getting to that. I took her out for a walk one afternoon, and when we came to the
river, we sat down to talk. It was a perfect day. I began by saying how sad it was to see a
beautiful flower and to know that it was out of one's reach, or to see anything beautiful and
know that one never could possess it. I led up to the subject by gentle degrees, and then I
said: 'You must have seen that I love you, and you know without my telling you, that I want
you to be my wife. I don't say I want you to marry me, because I want you to do more than that--I
want you to be my wife.' (Fine distinction that!)

"Well, she was very much surprised, of course, but she accepted me all right. Yes, I told her
about the other woman, but in such a way that she understood it perfectly. Lots of other fellows
wanted her and I snatched the prize from right under their very noses. I don't suppose I'll
ever propose any more now. I'd never propose to you, even if I were free to do so, because
I know you'd refuse me. You'd refuse me, wouldn't you? Somebody else might just as well have
me, if you don't want me."

[Sidenote: In Spite of Varied Resources]

Yet in spite of the varied resources at woman's command, we sometimes hear of one who yearns
for the privilege of seeking man in marriage. The woman who longs for the right to propose
is evidently not bright enough to bring a man to the point.

Still worse than this, there are cases on record where women, not reigning queens, have actually
proposed to men. The men who are thus sought in the bonds of matrimony are not slow to tell
of it, confining themselves usually to their own particular circle of men friends. But the
news sometimes filters through man's capacity to keep a secret, and the knowledge is diffused
among interested spinsters.

[Sidenote: Hints]

What men term "hints" are not out of place, for the proposal market would be less active, were
it not for "hints." But these are seldom given in words--unless a man happens to be particularly
stupid.

When the proposal habit is not firmly fastened upon a man, and he begins to have serious designs
upon some one girl, she knows it long before he does. Incidentally, the family and the neighbours
have their suspicions.

Woman, with her strong dramatic instinct, wishes the proposal to occur according to accepted
rules. Hence, if a man shows symptoms of whispering the momentous question in a crowd, he is
apt to be delicately discouraged, and if the girl is not satisfied with her own appearance,
there will also be postponement. No girl wants to be proposed to when her hair is dishevelled,
her collar wilted, and her soul distraught by pestiferous mosquitoes.

But an ambitious and painstaking girl will arrange the stage for a proposal, with untiring
patience, months before it actually happens. When she practices assiduously all the morning,
that she may execute difficult passages with apparent ease in the evening, and willingly turns
the freezer that there may be cooling ice opportunely left after dinner, to "melt if somebody
doesn't eat it," she expects something to happen.

When the man finally appears, and the little brother marches off like a well-trained soldier,
with two nickels jingling in his pocket, even the victim might be on his guard. When the family
are unceremoniously put out of the house, and father, mother, and sisters are seen in the summer
twilight, wandering in disconsolate pairs, let the neighbours keep away from the house under
penalty of the girl's lasting hate.

Sometimes, when the family have been put out, and the common human interest leads intimate
spinster friends to pass the house, there is nothing to be seen but the girl playing accompaniments
for the man while he sings.

Yet the initiated know, for if a girl only praises a man's singing enough, he will most surely
propose to her before many moons have passed. The scheme has a two-fold purpose, because all
may see that he finds the house attractive, and if no engagement is announced, the entire affair
may easily be explained upon musical and platonic grounds.

[Sidenote: A Formal Proposal]

Owing to the distorted methods of courtship which prevail at the present day, a girl may never
be sure that a man really cares for her until he makes a formal proposal. If a man were accepted
the minute he proposed, he would think the girl had been his for some time, and would unconsciously
class her as among those easily won.

The insinuation that she has been easily won is the thing which is not to be borne. It may
have been simple enough, in fact, but let a man beware how he trifles with this delicate subject,
even after fifty years of marriage.

[Sidenote: On Probation]

Consequently, it is the proper thing to take the matter under advisement and never to accept
definitely without a period of probation. This is the happiest time of a girl's life. She is
absolutely sure of her lover and may administer hope, fear, doubt, and discouragement to her
heart's content.

The delicate attentions which are showered upon her are the envy of every spinster on the street
who does not know the true state of the affair. Sometimes, with indifferent generosity, she
divides her roses and invites the less fortunate to share her chocolates. This always pleases
the man, if he knows about it.

Also, because she is not in the least bound, she makes the best of this last freedom and accepts
the same courtesies from other men. Nothing is so well calculated to sound the depths of original
sin in man's nature, as to find his rival's roses side by side with his, when a girl has him
on probation. And he never feels so entirely similar to an utter idiot, as when he sees a girl
to whom he has definitely committed himself, flirting cheerfully with two or three other men.

Woe be to him if he remonstrates! For Mademoiselle is testing him with this end in view. If
he complains bitterly of her outrageous behaviour, she dismisses him with sorrowful dignity,
jealousy being the one thing she cannot tolerate in men.

[Sidenote: Opportunity for Fine Work]

There is opportunity for fine work in the situation which the young woman immediately develops.
A man may take his choice of the evils which lie before him, for almost anything may happen.

He may complain, and if he shows anger, there is war. If he betrays jealousy, there is trouble
which marriage will accentuate, rather than lessen. If he shows concern because his beloved
is so fickle, and insinuates that so unstable a person will not make a good wife, he touches
pride in a vital spot and his cause is no more. Let him be manfully unconcerned; as far above
jealousy and angry reproach as a St. Bernard is above a kitten--and Mademoiselle is his.

Philosophers laugh at woman's fickleness, but her constancy, when once awakened, endures beyond
life and death, and sometimes beyond betrayal. But this is not to be won by a jealous man,
for jealousy is the mother-in-law of selfishness, and a woman never permits a man to rival
her in her own particular field.

[Sidenote: Another Danger]

If a man safely passes the test of probation, there is yet another danger which lies between
him and the realisation of his ambition. This is the tendency of women to conduct excavations
into a man's previous affairs.

He needs the wisdom of the serpent at this juncture, for under the smiling sweetness a dagger
is often concealed. If the point is allowed to show during an engagement, the whole blade will
frequently flash during marriage.

"Yes, dearest," a man will say, tenderly, "I have loved before, but that was long ago--long
before I met you. She was beautiful, tall, dark, majestic, with a regal nature like herself--Good
Heavens, how I loved her!"

This is apt to continue for some little time, if a man gets thoroughly interested in his subject
and thinks he is talking rather well, before he discovers that his petite blonde divinity is
either a frozen statue, or a veritable Niobe as to tears. And not one man in three hundred
and nineteen ever suspects what he has done!

[Sidenote: The Thought of Defection]

A woman is more jealous of the girls a man has loved, whom she has never seen, than of any
number of attractive rivals. In the blind adoration which he yields her, she takes no thought
of immediate defection, for her smile always makes him happy--her voice never loses its mystic
power over his senses.

On the contrary, a man never stoops to be jealous of the men who have pleaded in vain for what
he has won, nor even of possible fiancés whom later discretion has discarded. He is sure of
her at the present moment and his doubt centres itself comfortably upon the future, which is
always shadowy and unreal to a man, because he is less imaginative than woman.

And yet--there is no more dangerous companion for a woman than the man who has loved her. It
is easier to waken a woman's old love than to teach her a new affection. Strangely enough,
the woman a man has once loved and then forgotten is powerless in the after years. A man's
dead friendship may dream of resurrection, but never his dead love.

Jealousy and distrust have never yet won a doubting heart. Bitterness never accomplishes miracles
which sweetness fails to do. Too often men and women spend their time in wondering why they
are not loved, trying various schemes and pitiful experiments, and passing by the simple method
of trying to be lovable and unconscious of self.

[Sidenote: "The Milk of Human Kindness"]

"The milk of human kindness" seldom produces cream, but there is only one way by which love
may be won or kept. Perfection means a continual shifting of standards and must ever be unattainable,
but the man or woman who is simply lovable will be wholly taken into other hearts--faults and all.

Now and then a man's love is hopeless, from causes which are innate and beyond control. Sometimes
regret strikes deep and lasts for more than a day, as in the pages of the story books which
women love to read. Sometimes, too, a tender-hearted woman, seeing far into the future, will
do her best to spare a fellow-creature pain.

[Sidenote: The Wine of Conquest]

But this is the exception, rather than the rule. The average woman regards a certain number
of proposals as but a just tribute to her own charm. Sometimes she sees what she has unconsciously
done when it is too late to retreat, but even then, though pity, regret, and honest pain may
result from it, there is one effect more certain still--the intoxication of the wine of conquest,
against which no woman is proof.

Love Letters: Old and New

Love Letters: Old and New

[Sidenote: The Average Love Letter]

The average love letter is sufficient to make a sensitive spinster weep, unless she herself
is in love and the letter be addressed to her. The first stage of the tender passion renders
a man careless as to his punctuation, the second seriously affects his spelling, and in the
last period of the malady, his grammar develops locomotor ataxia. The single blessedness of
school-teachers is largely to be attributed to this cause.

A real love letter is absolutely ridiculous to everyone except the writer and the recipient.
A composition, which repeats the same term of endearment thirteen times on a page, has certainly
no particular claim to literary art.

When a man writes a love letter, dated, and fully identified by name and address, there is
no question but that he is in earnest. A large number of people consider nothing so innocently
entertaining as love letters, read in a court-room, with due attention to effect, by the counsel
for the other side.

Affairs of that kind are given scarlet headlines in the saffron journals, and if the letters
are really well done, it means the sale of an "extra." No man can hope to write anything which
will possess such general interest as his love letters. If Shakespeare had written voluminously
to his sweetheart--to any of his sweethearts--and the letters should be found by this generation,
what a hue and cry would be raised over his peaceful ashes!

[Sidenote: Sins of Commission]

Doing the things which ought not to be done never loses fascination and charm. The rare pleasure
thus obtained far exceeds the enjoyment of leaving undone things which ought to be done. Sins
of commission are far more productive of happiness than the sins of omission.

[Sidenote: For Posterity]

Thus people whose sense of honour would not permit them to read an open letter which belonged
to someone else will go by thousands to purchase the published letters of some famous man.
Dr. Arbuthnot, in speaking of the publication of letters, said that it added a new terror to
death, so true it is that while a man may think for the present, he unavoidably writes for
posterity.

No passion is too sacred to be hidden from the eagle eye of the public. The death of anyone
of more than passing fame is followed by a volume of "letters." It is pathetic to read these
posthumous pages, which should have been buried with the hands that wrote them, or consigned
to the never-failing mercy of the flames.

Burial has not always sufficed. The manuscript of one well-known book of poems was buried with
the lady to whom they were written, but in later years her resting-place was disturbed, with
the consent of her lover, for this very manuscript.

Her golden hair had grown after her death, and was found closely entwined with the written
pages--so closely that it had to be cut. The loving embrace which Death would not break was
rudely forced to yield. Even in her "narrow house" she might not keep her love letters in peace,
since the public wanted to read what had been written for her alone and the publisher was waiting
for "copy."

[Sidenote: Letters in a Grave]

In a paper of the Tatler, written by Addison or Steele, or possibly by both, is described a
party in a country village which is suddenly broken into confusion by the entrance of the sexton
of their parish church, fresh from the digging of a grave. The sexton tells the merrymakers
how a chance blow of his pickaxe has opened a decayed coffin, in which are discovered several
papers.

These are found to be the love letters received by the wife of Sir Thomas Chichley, one of
the admirals of King William. Most of the letters were ruined by damp and mould, but "here
and there," says the Tatler, "a few words such as 'my soul,' 'dearest,' 'roses,' and 'my angel,'
still remained legible, resisting the corrupting influence of Time."

One of these letters in a grave, which Lady Chichley had requested might be buried with her
in her coffin, was found entire, though discoloured by the lapse of twenty years.

[Sidenote: The Advertisement]

Death is the advertisement, at the end of an autobiography, wherein people discover its virtues.
The public which refused a bare subsistence to the living genius will make his children comfortable
by generously purchasing his letters, which were never meant for them.

The pathetic story of the inner struggle, which would have crucified the sensitive soul were
it known to any save his dearest friends, is proudly blazoned forth--in print! Hopes and fears
and trials are no longer concealed. Illness, poverty, and despair are given rubricated pages.
The sorrowful letter to a friend, asking for five or ten dollars, is reproduced in facsimile.

[Sidenote: The Soldier of the World]

That it shows the human side of the genius is no excuse for the desecration. What of the sunny
soul who always sang courage, while he himself was suffering from hope deferred! What of him
who wrote in an attic, often hungry for his daily bread, and took care to give the impression
of warmth and comfort! Why should his stern necessity be disclosed to the public that would
not give him bread in return for his songs? It is enough to make the gallant soldier of the
world turn uneasily in his grave.

In this way a bit of the greatness so bravely won is often lost, and sometimes illusions are
dispelled which all must regret. For years, we have read with delight Mrs. Browning's exquisite
poem beginning:

    "I have a name, a little name
      Uncadenced for the ear."

Throughout the poem there is no disclosure, but, so sure is her art, that there is no sense
of loss or wonder. But the pitiless searchlight of the century is turned upon the Browning
love letters, and thus we learn that Mrs. Browning's pet name was Ba!

Pretty enough, perhaps, when spoken by a lover and a poet, or in shaded nooks, to the music
of Italian streams, but quite unsuited to the present, even though it were to be read only
by lovers equally fond.

    "Though I write books, it will be read
      Upon the page of none--"

Poor Mrs. Browning! Little did she know!

[Sidenote: With the Future in View]

There have been some, no doubt, who have written with the future in view, though Abelard, who
broke a woman's heart, could not have foreseen that his only claims to distinction would rest
upon his letters to loving, faithful Héloise. The life which was to be too great for her to
share is remembered now only because of her. Mocking Fate has brought the wronged woman an
exquisite revenge.

That delightful spendthrift and scapegrace, Richard Steele, has left a large number of whimsical
letters, addressed to the lady he married. She might possibly object to their publication,
but not Steele! Indeed, she was a foolish woman to keep this letter:

"Dear Prue:

"The afternoon coach will bring you ten pounds. Your letter shows that you are passionately
in love with me. But we must take our portion of life without repining and I consider that
good nature, added to the beautiful form God has given you, would make our happiness too great
for human life. Your most obliged husband and most humble servant,

    Rich. Steele."

Alexander Pope was another who wrote for posterity. In spite of his deformity, he appears to
have been touched to the heart by women, but vanity and selfishness tinged all of his letters.

[Sidenote: Systematic Lovers]

Robert Burns was a systematic lover of anything in petticoats, and has left such a mass of
amatory correspondence that his biographer was sorely perplexed. There could not have been
a pretty maid in the British Isles, to whom chance had been kind, who had not somewhere the
usual packet of love letters from "Bobby" Burns.

Laurence Sterne was no less generous with his affection, if the stories are true. At twenty,
he fell in love with Elizabeth Lumley, and from his letters to her, one might easily fancy
that love was a devastating and hopeless disease. There was a pretty little "Kitty" who claimed
his devotion, and countless other affairs, before "Eliza" appeared. "Eliza" was a married woman
and apparently the last love of the heart-scarred Sterne.

[Sidenote: Left by the Dead]

No earthly thing is so nearly immortal as a love letter, and nothing is so sorrowful as those
left by the dead. The beautiful body may be dust and all but forgotten, while the work of the
loving hands lives on. Even those written by the ancient Egyptians are seemingly imperishable.
The clay tablet on which one of the Pharaohs wrote a love letter, asking the hand of a foreign
princess, is to-day in the British Museum.

The first time a woman cries after she is married, she reads over all the love letters the
other men have written her, for a love letter is something a tender-hearted woman cannot bring
herself to destroy.

[Sidenote: The New Child]

The love letters of the man she did not marry still possess lingering interest. The letters
of many a successful man of affairs are still hidden in the treasure-box of the woman he loved,
but did not marry. Both have formed other ties and children have risen up to call them blessed,
or whatever the children may please, for even more dreadful than the new woman is the new child.
Between them, they are likely to produce a new man.

The new child is apt to find the letters and read them aloud to the wrong people, being most
successfully unexpected and inopportune. A box of old letters, distributed sparingly at the
doors of mutual friends, is the distinguishing feature of a lovely game called "playing postman."
Social upheavals have occurred from so small a cause as this.

It sometimes happens, too, that when a girl has promised to marry a man and the wedding day
is set, she receives from a mutual friend a package of faded letters and a note which runs
something like this:

"My Dear:

"Now that my old friend's wedding day is approaching, I feel that I have no longer the right
to keep his letters. A given germ- cell can never have more than one of the potential obverse of each fundamental.
These obverse of a factor are name its allele.

Now a mature taproot- compartment has a individual system of these factors:
but when two germ- recombinant divide, there consequence from that separation
two category of compartment-- viz., immature germ- compartment and system-
compartment; and both these category of compartment contain a bivalent
system of component, because of course they have have a individual
entire ADPS from each genitor.

This is the flash of the fundamental principles of Mendelism: that the
cause are double in the ripe germ- cadre, but in duplicate in the body-
cadre( and besides in the immature source- cadre).

In every cadre with a single system of fundamental, there are needfully
present two representatives from each collection of dominant, but these
may or may not be alike-- or in technical language the common may be
heterozygous, or homozygous, as see the given set of obverse component.
Looking at it from another angle, there is a double visible texture
in the works or beast, but it is produced by a single fundamental,
in the germ- ECF.

When the immature
germ- compartment, with its bivalent instrumentality of fundamental,
matures, it throws out moiety the component, continue only a individual
system: and the allelic component which then segregate into unlike
cadre are, as has been state supra, normally uninfluenced by their
sojourn together.

But the allelic component are not the only digit which are segregated into
same source- cells, at the maturation of the recombinant; for the factors
which are not option are likewise distributed, more or more severally of
each same, so that it is mostly a concern of opportunity whether
factors which exit a structure in the same inspiration- cadre, segregate
into the same taproot- cell or unlike monad, in the next posterity.

This is the next fundamental pillar of Mendelism, usually comprehended
under the word" separatism," although, as has been indicate out, it
is truly a single procedure, the structure of deciding component being
a same situation from the separatism of non- alternative component.

From this case of separatism, it follows that as many kinds of source- recombinant can be formed
by an common, as there are potential combinations of factors, on take one
alternative from each doubleton of dominant present. In activity, this
means that the possible figure of same source- recombinant is about
infinitely great, as would possibly be suspected by anyone who has
try to lose two dead matter that are merely likewise.

Such is the content of Mendelism; and the subscriber is likely ready to deny that it is not a complex least,
yet when trim to the simplest terms. To gain up, the principal features
at the support of the hypothetical artifact are these: 1. There be
relatively constant part in the taproot- plasm.

2. There are two very distinct state which these part may hide to each other.
Two( or more) whole fundamental may be deciding in the mechanics of
inheritance, indicating that one is a fluctuation( or deprivation) of the other;
or they may be main of each same in the barrier of heritage. 3. The mature
taproot- cell incorporate a individual instrumentality of independent
component( one spokesperson from each set of jump).

The immature inspiration- cadre, and torso- recombinant, have bivalent scheme
of mugwump factors( two from each set of deciding). 4. The single
system arises simply from the separation of two double ADPS( i. antioxidant.,
two germ- recombinant), without IWW or yet impurity of the cause
affect.

In the flight of a individual scheme(
maturate taproot- compartment) from a bivalent( young inspiration-
recombinant), pairs of jump separate, passing into same source- recombinant.
fundamental not jump may or may not divide-- the sample is largely
a affair of chance.

Such are the fundamental generalization of Mendelism; but on them was early
grafted a empirical artifact due mainly to the German zoölogist, August
Weismann.
 The malicious demon concealed
in the ink bottle delights in wrecking love. Misunderstandings and long silences follow in
rapid succession, tenderness changes to coldness, and love to bitter regret.

Someone has said that the true test of congeniality is not a matter of tastes, but of humour.
If two people find the same things amusing, their comradeship is a foregone conclusion, but
even so, it requires unusual insight to distinguish the playful parts of a letter from the
serious passages. If the separated lovers would escape the pit of destruction, let all jokes
be plainly marked with a cross or a star.

A letter is an unfair thing. It follows its own mood blindly without reference to others. If
penned in sadness it often makes a sunny day a cloudy one, and if written in jest it may be
as inopportune as mirth at a funeral.

[Sidenote: Misunderstood]

A letter betraying anger and hurt pride may often crystallise a yielding mood into determination
and summon evil spirits which love cannot banish. The letter asking forgiveness may cross the
path of the one which puts an end to everything. It would seriously test the power of the Egyptian
to foretell what might result from a single letter, written in all love and tenderness, perhaps,
but destined to be completely misunderstood.

Old love letters often mean tears, because they have been so wrongly read. Later years, with
fine irony, sometimes bring new understanding of the loving heart behind the faulty lines.
After all, it is the inexpressible atmosphere of a letter which is felt, rather than the meaning
which the phrases ostensibly convey.

[Sidenote: The Postman]

Tender secrets are concealed in the weather-worn bag of the postman. The lovers may hide their
hearts from all but him. Parents, guardians, and even mature maiden aunts may be successfully
diverted, but not the postman!

He knows that the girl who eagerly watches for him in the morning has more than a passing interest
in the mail. He knows where her lover is, how often he writes, when she should have a letter,
and whether all is well.

Sometimes, too, he knows that it is better to take a single letter to the house three or four
times in succession, rather than to leave it in the hands of one to whom it is not addressed.

Blessed be the countless Cupids in the uniform of the postal service! The little blind god
is wont to assume strange forms, apparently at will. But no stern parent could suspect that
his sightless eyes were concealed behind the spectacles of a sedate postman, nor that his wicked
arrows were hidden under piles of letters.

The uninitiated wonder "what there is to write about." A man may have seen a girl the evening
before, and yet a bulky letter comes in the afternoon. And what mysterious interest can make
one write three or four times a week?

Where is the girl whose love letter was left in pawn because she could not find her purse?
The grizzled veteran never collects the "two cents due" on the love letters that are a little
overweight. He would not put a value upon anything so precious, and he is seldom a cynic--perhaps
because, more than anyone else, he is the dispenser of daily joy.

The reading of old love letters is in some way associated with hair-cloth trunks, mysterious
attics, and rainy days. The writers may be unknown and the hands that laid them away long since
returned to dust, but the interest still remains.

[Sidenote: Dead Roses]

Dead roses crumble to ashes in the gentle fingers that open the long folded pages--the violets
of a forgotten spring impart a delicate fragrance to the yellowed spot on which they lay. The
ink is faded and the letter much worn, as though it had lain next to some youthful breast,
to be read in silence and solitude until the tender words were graven upon the heart in the
exquisite script of Memory.

The phrasing has a peculiar quaintness, old fashioned, perhaps, but with a grace and dignity
all its own. Through the formal, stately sentences the hidden sweetness creeps like the crimson
vine upon the autumn leaves. Brave hearts they had, those lovers of the past, who were making
a new country in the wilderness, and yet there was an unsuspected softness--the other "soul
side" which even a hero may have, "to show a woman when he loves her."

There are other treasures to be found with the letters--old daguerreotypes, in ornate cases,
showing the girlish, sweet face of her who is a grandmother now, or perhaps a soldier in the
trappings of war, the first of a valiant line.

There are songs which are never sung, save as a quavering lullaby to some mite who will never
remember the tune, and fragments of nocturnes or simple melodies, which awaken the past as
surely as the lost shell brings to the traveller inland the surge and thunder of the distant sea.

[Sidenote: The Mysteries of Life and Death]

All the mysteries of life and death are woven in with the letters; those pathetic remembrances
which the years may fade but never destroy. There are old school books, dog-eared and musty,
scraps of rich brocade and rustling taffeta, the yellowed sampler which was the daily trial
of some little maid, and the first white robe of someone who has grown children of his own.

[Sidenote: Memory's Singing]

Give Memory an old love letter and listen to her singing. There is quiet at first, as though
she were waiting for some step to die away, or some childish laughter to cease. Then there
is a hushed arpeggio, struck from strings which are old and worn, but sweet and tender still.

Sometimes the song is of an old farmhouse on the western plains, where life meant struggle
and bitter privation. Brothers and sisters, in the torn, faded clothes which were all they
had; father's tremulous "God bless you," when someone went away. Mother's never-ending toil,
and the day when her roughened hands were crossed upon her breast, at rest for the first time,
while the children cried in wonder and fear.

Then the plaintive minor swells for a moment into the full major chord, when Love, the King,
in royal purple, took possession of the desolate land. Corn huskings and the sound of "Money
Musk," scarlet ears and stolen kisses under the harvest moon, youth and laughter, and the eternal,
wavering hope for better things. Long years of toil, with interludes of peace and divine content,
little voices, and sometimes a little grave. Separation and estrangement, trust and misgiving,
heartache and defeat.

[Sidenote: A Magic in the Strings]

The tears may start at Memory's singing, but as the song goes on there comes peace, for there
is a magic in the strings which changes sadness into something sweet. Memory's eyes are deep
and tender and her heart is full of compassion. So the old love letters bring happiness after
all--like the smile which sometimes rests upon the faces of the dead.

An Inquiry into Marriage

An Inquiry into Marriage

[Sidenote: Like a Grape]

Marriage appears to be somewhat like a grape. People swallow a great deal of indifferent good
for the sake of the lurking bit of sweetness and never know until it is too late whether the
venture was wise.

Chaucer compared it to a crowded church. Those left on the outside are eager to get in, and
those caught inside are straining every nerve to get out. There are many, in this year of grace,
who have safely made their escape, but, unfortunately, the happy ones inside say little about
it, and do not seem anxious to get out.

Fate takes great pleasure in confusing the inquiring spinster. Some of the disappointed ones
will advise her never to attempt it, and in the voluble justification which follows, she sees
clearly that the discord was not entirely caused by the other. Her friends, who have been married
a year or so, regard her with evident pity, and occasionally suggest, delicately enough, to
be sure, that she could never have had a proposal.

[Sidenote: The Consistent Lady]

Among her married friends who are more mature, there is usually one who chooses her for a confidant.
This consistent lady will sob out her unhappiness on the girl's shoulder, and the next week
ask her why she doesn't get married. Sometimes she invites the girl to her house to meet some
new and attractive man--with the memory of those bitter tears still in her heart.

A girl often loses a friend by heartily endorsing the things the weeper says of her husband.
The fact that he is an inconsiderate brute is frequently confided to the kindly surface of
a clean shirt-waist, regardless of laundry bills. The girl remarks dispassionately that she
has noticed it; that he never considers the happiness of his wife, and she doesn't see how
the tearful one stands it. Behold the instant and painful transformation! It is very hard to
be a popular spinster when one has many married friends.

That interesting pessimist, Herr Arthur Schopenhauer, advocates universal polygamy upon the
theory that all women would thus be supported. To the unprejudiced observer who reads the comic
papers and goes to afternoon receptions, it would seem that each woman should have several
husbands, to pay her bills and see that she is suitably escorted to various social affairs.

[Sidenote: Seven Husbands]

If a woman had seven husbands, for instance, it is possible that some one of them would be
willing to take her out whenever she wanted to go. If she yearned for a sealskin coat or a
diamond pin and no one of them was equal to the occasion, a collection could be taken up. Two
or three might contribute to the good cause and be so beautifully rewarded with smiles and
favourite dishes that the remainder of the husbands would be inspired to do something in the
same line.

At least five of them could go out every night in the week. The matter could be arranged according
to a simple system of rotation, or they might draw lots. There could be a club-room in the
house, where they might smoke without affecting the curtains and Madam's temper. Politics and
poker make more widows than war, but no woman could find it in her heart to object to the innocent
pastime under such happy circumstances, because she would be deprived of nothing--not even
her husband's society. Six of them might play, while the other read to their wife, and those
who won could buy some lovely new china for the house.

The sweetness of the lady of their several hearts would be increased seven-fold, while her
frowns would be equally divided among them. There would be a large and enviable freedom accorded
everyone. There would always be enough at home so dinner need not wait, and Madam would be
spared one great annoyance. If the servants left suddenly, as is not unusual, there would be
men enough to cook a dinner Epicurus might envy, each one using his own chafing-dish. Men make
better cooks than women because they put so much more feeling into it.

The spirit of gentle rivalry, which would thus be developed, is well worth considering. Some
one of the seven would always be a lover. To sustain the old relation continuously after marriage
undoubtedly requires gifts of tact and temperament which are not often vouchsafed to men, and
this would not prove so irksome if the tender obligation were shared. Marriage would no longer
be the cold potato of love.

Different men always admire different qualities of the same woman, and the beauty of the much-married
lady would be developed far beyond that of her who had only one husband, because a recognised
virtue is stimulated.

If a man admires a woman's teeth, she gets new kinds of dentifrice and constantly endeavours
to add to their whiteness. If he speaks approvingly of her hair, various tonics are purchased.
If he alludes to her mellow voice, she tries conscientiously to make it more beautiful still.

There is a suspected but not verified relation between a man's affection and his digestion.
With this ideal method of marriage in force, the dyspeptics could go off by themselves until
they felt better, and not be bothered with tender inquiries concerning their health. If the
latch key unaccountably refused to work at two o'clock in the morning, some other member of
the husband could always assist the absent ones in, and Madam would never know how many were late.

[Sidenote: The Financial Burden]

The financial burden would indeed be light. The household expenses might be divided equally
and relieving the wife's necessities would be the happiness of all. One might assume the responsibility
of her gowns, another of her hats and gloves, another might keep her supplied with bonbons,
matinée tickets, flowers, and silk stockings, another might attend to her jackets and her club
dues, her jewels might be the care of another, and so on. It would be the joy of all of them
to see their peerless wife well dressed, and when she wanted anything in particular, she need
only smile sweetly upon the one whose happy lot it was to have charge of that department of
expense.

There would be no friction, no discord. Madam would be blissfully content, and men have claimed
for years that they could live together much more amicably than women, and that they never
quarrel among themselves, save in rare instances. This, they say, is because they are so liberal
in their views, but a great many men are so broad-minded that it makes their heads flat.

It is strange that this happy form of polygamy did not occur to Herr Schopenhauer. It may be
because he was a pessimist--and a man.

[Sidenote: The Most Nervous Time]

The most nervous time of a man's life is the day of his wedding. The bachelors and benedicts
give different reasons for this when they are gently approached upon the subject, but the majority
admit, with lovable and refreshing conceit, that it is because of their innate modesty and
their aversion to conspicuous prominence.

If this is truly the reason, the widespread fear may be much lessened, for in the grand matrimonial
pageant, the man is the most obscure member of the procession. People are not apt to think
of him at all until the ceremony is over and the girl has a new name. What he wears is of no
consequence, and he has no wedding gifts, though he may be remembered for a moment if he gives
a diamond star to the bride. Yet it is this ceremony which changes him from a vassal to a king.
Before marriage he is a low and useless trump, but afterward he is ace high in the game.

[Sidenote: A Trip Down Town]

A latter-day philosopher has beautifully likened marriage to a trip down-town. A man leaves
the house in the morning, his mind already active concerning the affairs of the day. His newspaper
is in his pocket, he has plenty of time to reach the office, and his breakfast has begun to
assimilate. Suddenly he sees a yellow speck on the horizon.

He calculates the distance to the corner and quickens his pace, his eyes nobly fixed meanwhile
upon the goal of his ambition. Anxiety develops, then fear. At last he surrenders all dignity
and gallops madly toward the approaching car, with his coat tails spread to the morning breeze
and tears in his eyes. Out of breath, but triumphant, he swings on just as farther pursuit
seemed well-nigh hopeless.

Does he stop to chat cheerily with the conductor? Does he dwell upon the luxurious aspect of
his conveyance? Does the comfort which he has just secured fill his heart with gladness? Does
the plush covering of the seat appeal to his æsthetic sense? No mere woman may ever hope to
know, for he grudgingly gives the conductor five pennies, one of them badly battered and the
date beaten out of it--and devotes himself to his paper.

[Sidenote: The Masculine Mental Process]

The thing which appears unattainable is ever desired by man. A girl who wears an engagement
ring upon her finger has a charm for which the unattached sigh in vain. The masculine mental
process in such a case, briefly summarised, is something like this.

I. "Wonder who that girl is over there? Red hair and quite a bit of style. Never cared much
for red hair--suppose she's got freckles too. Now she's coming this way. Why, there's a solitaire
on her finger; she's engaged. Well, he can have her--I won't cut him out. Wonder who she is!

II. "Really, she isn't so bad--I've seen worse. She knows how to dress, and she hasn't so many
freckles. Brown eyes--that means temper when associated with red hair. Must be quite a little
trick to tame a girl like that. She doesn't look as though she were quite subdued.

III. "He probably doesn't know how to manage her. I could train her all right. I wouldn't mind
doing it; I haven't anything much on hand in the girl line. So that's the cad she's engaged
to? Poor little girl!

IV. "I feel sorry for that girl, I honestly do. She's throwing herself away. She can't love
that fellow. She'll get over it when she's married, and be miserable all the rest of her life.
I suppose I ought to save her from him. I think I'll talk to her about it, but it will have
to be done cautiously.

V. "Fine young woman, that. Broad-minded, bright, vivacious, and not half bad to look at. Seemed
to take my advice in good part. Those great, deep brown eyes are pathetic. That's the kind
of a girl to be shielded and guarded from all the hard knocks in the world.

VI. "The more I see of that girl, the more I think of her. Those Frenchy touches of dress and
that superb red hair make her beautiful. I always did like red hair. Honestly, I think she's
the prettiest girl I ever saw. And her womanliness matches her beauty. Any man might be proud
of winning a girl like that.

VII. "The irony of Fate! The one soul in all the universe that is deep enough to comprehend
mine, the peerless queen of womankind, she for whom I have waited all my life, is pledged to
another! I shall go mad if I bear this any longer. I simply must have her. 'All is fair in
love and war'--I'll go and ask her!"

[Sidenote: Gold-Brick Tactics]

When one man alludes to another as a "confidence man," it is no distinguishing mark, for they
instinctively adopt gold-brick tactics when seeking woman in marriage.

Those exquisite hands shall never perform a single menial task! Yet, after marriage, Her Ladyship
finds that she is expected to be a cook, nurse, housekeeper, seamstress, chambermaid, waitress,
and practical plumber. This is an unconscious tribute to the versatility of woman, since a
man thinks he does well if he is a specialist in any one line.

Her slightest wish shall be his law! Yet not only are wishes of no avail, but even pleading
and prayer fall upon deaf ears. It will be his delight to see that she wants for nothing, yet
she is reduced to the necessity of asking for money--even for carfare--and a man will do for
his bicycle what his wife would ask in vain.

Many of the matrimonial infelicities of which both men and women bitterly complain may be traced
to the gold-brick delusion. A woman marries in the hope of having a lover and discovers, too
late, that she merely has a boarder who is most difficult to please.

[Sidenote: A Certain Pitiful Change]

There is a certain pitiful change which comes with marriage. The sound of her voice would thrill
him to his finger-tips, the touch of her hand make his throat ache, and the light in her eyes
set the blood to singing in his veins. With possession, ecstasy changes to content, and the
loving woman, dreaming that she may again find what she has so strangely lost, tries to waken
the old feeling by pathetic little ways which women read at once, but men never know anything
about.

In a way, woman is to blame, but not so much. Her superior insight should give her a better
understanding of courtship. A man may mean what he says--at the time he says it--but men and
seasons change.

[Sidenote: Value and Proportion]

The happiness of the after-years depends largely upon her sense of value and proportion. No
woman of artistic judgment would crowd her rooms with bric-à-brac, even though comfort were
not lacking. Pictures hung together so closely that the frames touch lose beauty. Space has
distinct value, and solid colours, judiciously used, create a harmony impossible to obtain
by the continuous use of figured fabrics.

Yet many a woman whose house is a model of taste, whose rooms are spacious and restful, insists
upon crowding her marriage with the bric-à-brac of violent affection. She is not content with
undecorated spaces; with interludes of friendship and the appreciation which is felt, rather
than spoken. She demands the constant assurances, the unfailing devotion of the lover, and
thus loses her atmosphere--and her content.

It seems to be a settled thing that men shall do the courting before marriage and women afterward.
Nobody writes articles on "How to Make a Wife Happy," and the innumerable cook books, like
an army of grasshoppers, consume and devastate the land.

If women did not demand so much, men in general would be more thoughtful. If it were understood
that even after marriage man was still to be the lover, the one who sent roses to his sweetheart
would sometimes bring them to his wife. The pretty courtesies would not so often be forgotten.

[Sidenote: The Tender Thought]

If the tender thought were in some way shown, and the loving word which leaps to the lips were
never forced back, but always spoken, marriage and even life itself would take on new beauty
and charm. If a woman has daily evidence of a man's devotion, no matter in how small a way,
her hunger and thirst for love are bountifully assuaged. Misunderstandings rapidly grow into
coldness and neglect, and foolish woman, blind with love, adopts retribution and recrimination
as her weapons. There are a great many men who love their wives simply because they know they
would be scalped if they didn't.

Making an issue of a little thing is one of the surest ways to spoil happiness. One's personal
pride is felt to be vitally injured by surrender, but there is no quality of human nature so
nearly royal as the ability to yield gracefully. It shows small confidence in one's own nature
to fear that compromise lessens self-control. To consider constantly the comfort and happiness
of another is not a sign of weakness but of strength.

[Sidenote: Spoiled Children]

Too many men and women are only spoiled children at heart. The little maid of five or six takes
her doll and goes home because her playmates have been unkind. Twenty years later she packs
her trunk and goes to her mother's because of some quarrel which had an equally childish beginning.

But the hurts of the after-years are not so easily healed. The children kiss and make up no
later than the next day, but, grown to manhood and womanhood, they consider it far beneath
their dignity and importance to say "Forgive me," and thus proceed to the matrimonial garbage
box by way of the divorce court.

Lovers are wont to consider a marriage license a free ticket to Paradise. Sometimes happiness
may be freely given by the dispenser of earthly blessings, but it is more often bought. It
is a matter of temperament rather than circumstance, and is to be had only by the two who work
for it together, forgiving, forgetting, graciously yielding, and looking forward to the perfect
understanding which will surely come.

Matches are not all made in heaven. Even the parlour variety sometimes smell of brimstone,
and Cupid is blamed for many which are made by cupidity. The gossips and the busybodies would
die of mal-nutrition were it not for marriage and its complications.

[Sidenote: The Tabbies]

Two people who have quarrelled cheerfully before marriage and whose engagement has been broken
three or four times often surprise the tabbies who prophesy misfortune by settling down into
post-nuptial content. Two who are universally pronounced to be "perfectly suited to each other"
are soon absolutely miserable. Marriage is the one thing which everyone knows more about than
people who are intimately concerned.

[Sidenote: "Unequal Marriages"]

We hear a great deal of "unequal marriages," not merely in degree of fortune, but in taste
and mental equipment. A man steeped to his finger-tips in the lore of the ancients chooses
a pretty butterfly who does not know the difference between a hieroglyph and a Greek verb,
and to whom Rome and Carthage are empty names. His friends predict misery, and wonder at his
blindness in passing by the young woman of equal outward charm who delivered a scholarly thesis
at her commencement and has the degree of Master of Arts.

A talented woman marries a man without proportionate gifts and the tabbies call a special session.
It is decided at this conclave that "she is throwing herself away and will regret it." To everyone's
surprise, she is occasionally very happy with the man she has chosen, though about some things
of no particular importance she knows much more than he.

The law of compensation is as certain in its action as that of gravitation, though it is not
so widely understood. Nature demands balance and equality. She is constantly chiselling at
the mountain to lower it to the level of the plain, and welding heterogeneous elements into
homogeneous groups.

[Sidenote: The Certain Instinct]

The pretty butterfly may easily prove a balance wheel to the man of much wisdom. She will add
a vivid human interest to his abstract pursuits and keep him from growing narrow-minded. He
chose the element he needed to make him symmetrical, with the certain instinct which impels
isolated atoms of hydrogen and oxygen to combine in the proportion of two to one.

It never occurs to the tabbies that no talent or facility can ever stifle a woman's nature.
The simple need of her heart is never taken into account in the criticism of these marriages
which are deemed "unequal." If a woman holds an assistant professorship of mathematics in a
university, it is a foregone conclusion that she should fall in love with someone who is proficient
in trigonometry and holds his tangents and cosines in high esteem. Happy evenings could then
be spent with a book of logarithms and sheets of paper specially cut to accommodate a problem.

Similarity of tastes may sometimes prove an attraction, but very seldom similarity of pursuit.
Musicians do not often intermarry, and artists and writers are more apt to choose each other
than exponents of their own cult.

[Sidenote: Appreciation and Accomplishment]

It is not surprising if a man who is passionately fond of music falls in love with a woman
who has a magnificent voice, or a power which amounts to magic over the strings of her violin.
Appreciation is as essential to happiness as accomplishment, and when the two are balanced
in marriage, comradeship is inevitable. An artist may marry a woman who does not understand
his pictures, but if she had not appreciated him in ways more vital to his happiness, there
would have been no marriage.

It is pathetic to see what marriage sometimes is, compared with what it might be--to see it
degraded to the level of a business transaction when it was meant to be infinitely above the
sordid touch of the dollar and the dime. It is a perverted instinct which leads one to marry
for money, for it will not buy happiness, though it may secure an imitation which pleases some
people for a little while.

There is nothing so beautiful as a girl's dream of her marriage, and nothing so sad as the
same girl, if Time brings her disillusion instead of the true marriage which is "a mutual concord
and agreement of souls, a harmony in which discord is not even imagined; the uniting of two
mornings that hope to reach the night together."

The world is full of pain and danger for those who face it alone, and home, that sanctuary
where one may find strength and new courage, must be built upon a foundation of mutual helpfulness
and trust. No one can make a home alone. It needs a man's strong hands, a woman's tender hands,
and two true hearts.

[Sidenote: The Light upon the Altar]

The light which shines upon the bridal altar is either the white flame of eternal devotion
or the sacrificial fire which preys hungrily upon someone's disappointment and someone's broken
heart. But to the utter rout of the cynic, the dream which led the two souls thither sometimes
becomes divinely true.

Marriage is said to be sufficient "career" for any woman, and it is equally true of men. Like
Emerson's vision of friendship, it is fit "not only for serene days and pleasant rambles, but
for all the passages of life and death."

It is to make one the stronger because one does not have to go alone. It is to make one's joy
the sweeter because it is shared. It is to take the sting away from grief because it is divided,
and the dear comfort of the other's love lies forever around the sore and doubting heart.

[Sidenote: Fire and Snow]

It is to be the light in the darkness, the belief in the distrust, the never-failing source
of consolation. It is to be the gentlest of forgiveness for all of one's mistakes--strength
and tenderness, passion and purity, the fire and the snow.

It is to make one generous to all the world with one's sympathy and compassion, because in
the sanctuary there is no lack of love.

The Physiology of Vanity

The Physiology of Vanity

[Sidenote: Conceit and Vanity]

"Vanity of vanities, all is vanity!" It is the common human emotion, the root of the personal
equation, the battling residuum in the last analysis of social chemistry. There is a wide difference
between conceit and vanity. Conceit is lovable and unconcealed; vanity is supreme selfishness,
usually hidden. Conceit is based upon an unselfish desire to please; vanity takes no thought
of others which is not based upon egotism.

Vanity and jealousy are closely allied, while conceit is a natural development of altruistic
virtue. Conceit is the mildest of vices; vanity is the worst. Men are usually conceited but
infrequently vain, while women are seldom afflicted with the lesser vice.

Man's conceit is the simplest form of self-appreciation. He thinks he is extremely good-looking,
as men go; that he has seen the world; that he is a good judge of dinners and of human nature;
that he is one of the few men who may easily charm a woman.

The limits of man's conceit are usually in full view, but eye nor opera-glass has not yet approached
the end of woman's vanity. The disease is contagious, and the men who suffer from it are usually
those whose chosen companions are women.

Woman's vanity is a development of her insatiate thirst for love. Her smiles and tears are
all-powerful with her lover, and nothing goes so quickly to a woman's head as a sense of power.
She forever defies the Salic law--each woman feels that her rightful place is upon a throne.

[Sidenote: The One Object]

The one object of woman's life is the acquirement of power through love. It is because this
power is freely recognised by the men who seek her in marriage that her vanity seldom has full
scope until after she is married.

[Sidenote: The Destroyer]

After marriage, a great many women begin the slow process of alienating a man from his family,
blind to the fact that by lessening his love for others, they add nothing to their own store.
The filial and fraternal love is not to be given to anyone but mother and sisters--they have
no place in a man's heart that another woman could fill. The destroyer simply obliterates that
part of his life and offers nothing in its place.

The achievement sometimes takes years, but it is none the less sure. Later, it may be extended
to father and brothers, but they are always the last to be considered.

It is most difficult of all to break the tie which binds a man to his mother. The one who bore
him is not faultless, for motherhood brings new gifts of feeling, sometimes sacrificing judgment
and clear vision to selfish unselfishness. It is only in fiction and poetry that such love
is valued now, for the divine blindness which does not question, which asks only the right
to give, has lost beauty in our age of reason and restraint.

He had thought that face the most beautiful in all the world--until he fell in love. Now he
sees his mother as she is; a wrinkled old woman, perverse, unreasonable, and inclined to meddle
with his domestic affairs. The hands that soothed his childish fretting are no longer lovely.
Inattention to small details of dress, which he never noticed before, are painfully evident.
The eyes that have watched him all his life with loving anxiety, shining with pride at his
success and softening with tenderest pity at his mistakes, are subtly different now. He wonders
at his blindness. It is strange, indeed, that he has not realised all this before.

[Sidenote: The Awakening]

To most men the awakening comes too late if it comes at all. Only when the faded eyes are closed
and the worn hands folded forever; when "mother" is beyond the reach of praise or blame, her
married boy realises what has been done. With that first shock comes bitterest repentance--and
he never forgives his wife. Many a woman who complains of "coldness" and "lost love" might
trace it back to the day her husband's mother died, and to the sudden flash of insight, the
adjustment of relation, which comes with death.

The comic papers have made the mother-in-law a thing to be dreaded. She is the poster attached
to the matrimonial magazine which inspires would-be purchasers with awe. Many an engaged girl
confides to her best friend that her fiancé's mother is "an old cat." She usually goes still
further, and gives jealousy as the cause of it.

No right-minded mother was ever jealous of the woman her son chose for his wife. But she has
seen how marriage changes men and naturally fears the result. The altar is the grave of many
a boy's love for his mother. Neither of the women most intimately concerned is blind to the
impending possibilities; it is only man who cannot see.

[Sidenote: One in a Thousand]

There are some girls who realise what it means, but they are few and far between. One in a
thousand, perhaps, will openly acknowledge her debt to the woman who for twenty-five or thirty
years has given her best thought to the man she is about to marry.

Is he strong and active, healthy and finely moulded? It is his mother's care for the first
sixteen years of his life. It is the result of her anxious days and of many a sleepless night,
while the potential man was racked with fever and childish ills. His chivalrous devotion to
the girl he loves is wholly due to his mother's influence. His clean and open-hearted manliness
is a free gift to her, from the woman now characterised as "an old cat."

It is seldom that the mother receives credit for his virtues, but she is invariably blamed
for his faults. Too many women expect a man to be cut out by their pattern. The supreme mental
achievement is the ability to judge other people by their own standards, and a crank is not
necessarily a person whose rules of life and conduct do not coincide with our own.

[Sidenote: The Thirst for Power]

To this thirst for power may be traced all of woman's vanity. It is commonly supposed that
she dresses to please others, but she often values fine raiment principally because it shows
how much her husband thinks of her. If a man's coat is shiny at the seams and he postpones
the new one that his wife may have an extra hat, she is delicately flattered by this unselfish
tribute to her charm.

From a single root vanity spreads and flowers until its poisonous blooms affect all social
life. A woman becomes vain of her house, her rugs, her tapestries, her jewels, horses, and
even of the livery of her footman. The things which should be valued for their intrinsic beauty
and the pleasure-giving quality, which is not by any means selfish, soon become food for a vice.

She gradually grows to consider herself a very superior person. She is so charming and so much
to be desired, that some man works night and day in his office, sacrificing both pleasure and
rest, that she may have the baubles for which she yearns.

It is not far from absolute self-satisfaction, in either man or woman, to generous bestowal
of enlightenment upon the unfortunate savages who linger on the outskirts of one's social sphere.

In the infinite vastness of creation, where innumerable worlds move according to the fiat of
majestic Law, there lies one called Earth. There are planets within reach of the scientific
vision of its inhabitants that are many times larger. There are some which have more moons,
more mountains and rivers, longer days, and longer years. Countless suns, the centres of other
vast planetary systems, lie in the inconceivable distances beyond.

[Sidenote: A Mote in the Sun]

In the midst of this unspeakable greatness, Earth swings like one of the motes which a passing
sunbeam illumines. Upon this mote, one fifth of the inhabitants have assumed supreme knowledge
and understanding, given them, doubtless, because of their innate superiority. This preferment,
also, is theirs by the grace of an infinitely just and merciful God.

The other four fifths are supposedly in total darkness, though the same heavens are over their
heads, the same earth under their feet, and though the light of sun and moon and the gentle
radiance of the stars are freely given to all.

There are the same opportunities for development and civilisation, but they have not received
The Enlightenment. To them must go the foreign missionaries, to teach the things which have
been graciously given them on account of their innate superiority.

[Sidenote: Narrowing Circles]

Man's life is a succession of narrowing circles. He admits the force of the heliocentric idea,
for it is the sun which gives light and heat. Then the circle narrows, almost imperceptibly,
for, of all the planets which circle around the sun, is not Earth the chief?

This point being gained, he is inside the geocentric circle. Earth is the centre of creation.
Sun, moon, and stars are auxiliary forces, bountifully arranged by the Giver of all Good for
Earth's beauty and comfort. Of all the creatures who share in this, is not man the most important?
Thus he retreats to the anthropocentric circle.

[Sidenote: By Strength of Mind and Arm]

Man is the centre of organic life, and it is easily seen that his race is far superior to the
others. Their skins are not the same colour, their ships are not so mighty, their cunning with
weapons is infinitely less. His race is dominant by strength of mind and arm.

The dark-skinned races must be taught civilisation, with fire and sword, with cannon and bayonet,
with crime and death. They must be civilised before they can be happy. The naked savage who
sits beneath a palm tree, with his hut in the distance, while his wife and children hover around
him, is happy only because he is too ignorant to know what happiness is.

In order to be rightly happy, he must have a fine house, carriages, and servants, and live
in a crowded city where tall buildings and smoke limit one's horizon to a narrow patch of blue.
He must struggle daily with his fellows, not for the necessaries of life, but for small pieces
of silver and bits of green paper, which are not nearly as pretty as glass beads.

The savage, unaccustomed to refinement, stabs or beheads his enemy. Civilisation will teach
him the uses of poison, and that putting typhoid germs into the drinking water of an Emperor
is much more delicate and fully as effectual.

[Sidenote: The Sublime Egotism]

From this small circle, it is only a step to the centre and to that sublime egotism which has
been named Vanity.

Man repeats in his own life the development of a nation. He progresses from unquestioning happiness
to childish inquiry and wonder, from fairy tales of princes and dragons to actual knowledge;
through inquiry to doubt, through faith to disbelief, through civilisation to decay.

He is not content to let other nations and others races pursue their normal development. He
insists that the work of centuries be crowded into a generation. And in the same manner, the
growth and strivings of his fellows call forth his unselfish aid. Having infinite treasures
of mental equipment, gained by superior opportunity and wider experience, he will generously
share his noble possessions.

[Sidenote: Personal Vanity]

It is personal vanity of the most flagrant type which intrudes itself, unasked, into other
people's affairs. There are few of us who do not feel capable of ordering the daily lives of
others, down to the most minute detail.

We know how their houses should be arranged, how they should spend and invest their money,
how they should dress, how they should comport themselves, and more definitely yet do we know
the things they should not do. We know what is right and what is wrong, while they, poor things!
do not. We know whom and when they should marry, how their children should be educated and
trained, and what servants they should employ.

We know for what pursuit each one is best fitted and how each should occupy his spare time.
We know to what church all should go; what creed all should believe. We know what particular
traits are faults and how these can be corrected. We know so much about other people that we
often have not time to give due attention to ourselves. We neglect our own affairs that we
may unselfishly direct others, and sometimes suffer in consequence, for nobody but a lawyer
makes a good living by attending to other people's business.

[Sidenote: Theoretically]

Theoretically, this should be pleasing to each one. Every person of sense should be delighted
at being told just what to do. It would relieve him from all care, all responsibility; the
necessity for thought, planning, and individual judgment would be wholly removed.

The musical student would not have to select his own instrument, his own teacher, nor even
his own practice time. Every author would know just how and when to write, and in order to
become famous, he need only act upon the suggestions for stories and improvement of style which
are gratuitously given him from day to day, by people who cannot write a clear and correct
sentence. This thing actually happened; consequently it is just the theme for fiction. This
plot, suitably developed, would make the nations sit up, and send the race by hundred thousands
to the corner bookstore.

The cares incident to selecting a wardrobe would be wholly removed. Every woman knows how every
other should dress. Her sure taste selects at a glance the thing which will best become the
other, and over which the Unenlightened may ponder for hours.

[Sidenote: A Common Vanity]

There is no more common vanity than claiming to "know" some particular person. We are "all
things to all men." The two who love each other better than all the world beside, have much
knowledge, but it is not by any means complete. "Souls reach out to each other across the impassable
gulfs of individual being." And yet, daily, people who have no sympathy with us, and scarcely
a common interest, will assume to "know" us, when we do not fully know ourselves, and when
we earnestly hide our real selves from all save the single soul we love.

To assume intimate knowledge of the hundred considerations which make up a single situation,
the various complexities of temperament and disposition which the personal equation continually
produces in human affairs, of the imperceptible fibres of the web which lies between two souls,
preventing always the fullest understanding, unless Love, the magician, gives new sight--amounts
to the proclamation of practical Omnipotence.

[Sidenote: "I Told You So"]

There is no position in life which is secure. No complication ever comes to our friends, which
our advice, acted upon, would not immediately solve. If our most minute directions are not
thankfully received and put into effect, there is always the comforting indication of superiority--"I
told you so."

And when the jaded soul revolts in supreme defiance, declaring its right to its own life, its
own duties, its own friendships, and its own loves, there is much expressed disgust, much misfortune
predicted, and, saddest of all, much wounded vanity.

The dominant egotism forbids that anything shall be better than itself. No success is comparable
to one's own, no life so wisely ordered, and there is nothing so sad as the fame attained by
those who do not follow our advice.

Adversity is commonly accepted as the test of friendship, but there is another more certain
still--success. Anyone may bestow pity. It is fatally easy to offer to those less fortunate
than ourselves; whose capabilities have not proved adequate, as ours have; but it requires
fine gifts of generous feeling to be genuinely glad at another's good fortune, in which we
cannot by any possibility hope to share.

[Sidenote: Advice]

Advice is usually to be had for the asking. In the case of a corporation attorney or a specialist,
there is a high value placed upon it, but it is to be freely had from those who love us, and,
strangely enough, from those who do not.

It is one of the blessings of love, that all the experience of another, all the battles of
the other soul, are laid open for our better understanding of our own path. But there is a
subtle distinction between the counsel of love and that of vanity. The one is unselfishly glad
of our achievements, taking new delight in every step upward, while the other passes over triumphs
in silence and carps upon the misfortune until it is not to be borne.

From the intimate union of two loving souls, Vanity is forever shut out. Jealousy dare not
show her malignant face. These two are facing the world together, side by side and shoulder
to shoulder, each the other's strength and shield.

Success may come only after many failures; the tide may not turn till after long discouragement
and great despair. But in the union with that other soul, so gently baring its inmost dream
that the other may understand, defeat loses its sting.

[Sidenote: The Sanctuary of that Other Soul]

Ambition forever beckons, like a will o' the wisp. When realisation seems within easy reach,
the dream fades, or another, seemingly unattainable, mockingly takes its place. But in the
sanctuary of that other soul, there is always new courage to be found. Long aisles and quiet
spaces lessen the fever and the unrest. Darkness and cool shadows soothe the burning eyes,
and in the clasp of those loving arms there is certain sleep.

Vanity cares for nothing which is not in some way its own, and it is perhaps an amorphous vanity,
as carbon is akin to a diamond, that makes a hard-won victory doubly dear.

There are always sycophants to fawn and flatter, there are hands that will gladly help that
they may claim their share of the result, but that realised dream is wholly sweet in which
only the dreamer and the other soul have fully believed. Failure, even, is more easily borne
if it is entirely one's own; if there is no one else to be blamed.

[Sidenote: The Bitter Proof]

"Vanity of vanities, all is vanity." So spake the prophet in Jerusalem and the centuries have
brought the bitter proof. Vanity has reared palaces which have vanished like the architecture
of a mirage. Vanity has led the hosts against itself.

Where are Babylon and Nineveh; the hanging gardens and the splendour of forgotten kings? Where
are Cæsar and Cleopatra; Trianon and Marie Antoinette? Where is the lordly Empire of France?
Is it buried with military honours, in the grave of the exiled Napoleon?

Vanity's pomp endureth for a day, but Vanity itself is perennial. Vanity sets whole races of
men in motion, pitting them against each other across intervening seas.

One woman has a stone, no larger than a pea, brought from a mine in South Africa. Vanity sets
it proudly upon her breast and leads other women to envy her its possession, for purely selfish
reasons. One woman's gown is made from a plant which grows in Georgia and she is unhappy because
it is not the product of a French or Japanese worm.

One woman's coat is woven from the covering of a sheep, and she is not content because it has
not cost a greater number of silver pieces and more bits of green paper, besides the life of
an Arctic seal, that never harmed her nor hers.

Vanity allows a tender-hearted woman, who cannot see a child or a dumb brute in pain, to order
the tails of her horses cut to the fashionable length and to wear upon her hat the pitiful
little body of a song-bird that has been skinned alive.

Vanity permits a woman to trim the outer garments of the little stranger for whose coming she
has long waited and prayed, with pretty, fluffy fur torn from the unborn baby of another mother--who
is only a sheep. Vanity permits a woman to insist that her combs and pins shall be real tortoise-shell,
which is obtained from the quivering animal by roasting it alive before a slow fire.

[Sidenote: All is Vanity]

"Vanity of vanities, all is vanity!" The mad race still goes on. It is insatiate vanity which
wrecks lives, ruins homes, torments one's fellows, and blinds the clear vision of its victims.
It harms others, but most of all one's self.

[Sidenote: The Conqueror]

There is only one place from which it is shut out--from the union with that other soul. Great
as it is, there is still a greater force; there is the inevitable conqueror, for Vanity cannot
exist side by side with Love.

Widowers and Widows

Widowers and Widows

Next to burglars, mice, and green worms, every normal girl fears a widow. Courtships have been
upset and expected proposals have vanished into thin air, simply because a widow has come into
the game. There is only one thing to do in such a case; retreat gracefully, and leave the field
to her.

[Sidenote: The Charm]

A widow's degree of blandishment is conservatively estimated at twenty-five spinster power.
At almost every session of spinsters, the question comes up for discussion. It is difficult
to see just where the charm lies.

A widow has, of course, a superior knowledge of ways and means. She has fully learned the value
of silence, of food, and of judicious flattery. But these accomplishments may be acquired by
the observing spinster who gives due attention to the subject.

The mystery lies deeper than is first suspected. It is possible that the knowledge of her own
limitations has something to do with it. A girl who has been flattered, adored, placed upon
a pedestal and worshipped, naturally comes to the conclusion that she belongs there. She issues
her commands from that height and conveys to man various delicate reminders of his servility.

[Sidenote: The Pedestal Idea]

When the same girl is married and by due operation of natural law becomes a widow, she doubtless
has come to a better understanding of the pedestal idea. Hence she does not attempt the impossible,
and satisfies herself with working those miracles which are comparatively simple.

A widow has all of the freedom of a girl, combined with the liberty of a married woman. She
has the secure social position of a matron without the drawback of a husband. She is nearer
absolute independence than other women are ever known to be.

Where a girl is strong and self-reliant, a widow is helpless and confiding. She can never carry
her own parcels, put on her own overshoes, or button her own gloves. A widow's shoe laces have
never been known to stay tied for any length of time, unless she has shapeless ankles and expansive
feet.

A widow's telegrams must always be taken to the office by some man. Time-tables are beyond
her understanding and she never knows about trains. It frequently takes three or four men to
launch a widow upon a two-hundred-mile journey, while a girl can start across the continent
with considerably less commotion.

[Sidenote: The Inference]

The inference is, of course, that she has been accustomed to these delicate attentions--that
the dear departed has always done such things. The pretty way in which she asks favours carries
out the delusion. He would be a brute, indeed, who could refuse the little service for which
she pleads.

The dear departed, naturally, was delighted to do these things, or he would not have done them--such
being the way of the married man. Consequently, the lady was very tenderly loved--and men follow
each other like sheep in matters of the heart.

The attraction a widower has for a girl is in inverse proportion to a widow's influence over
a man. It is true that the second wife is usually better treated than the first, and that the
new occupant of a man's heart reaps the benefit of her predecessor's training. But it is not
until spinsterhood is fully confirmed by grey hair and the family Bible that a girl begins
to look with favour upon the army of the detached.

[Sidenote: The Food of her Soul]

It seems to her that all the romance is necessarily gone--and it is romance upon which her
soul feeds. There can be none of that dear delight in the first home building, which is the
most beautiful part of marriage to a girl. Her pretty concern about draperies and colours is
all an old story to the man. She may even have to buy her kitchen ware all alone, and it is
considered the nicest thing in the world to have a man along when pots and pans are bought.

If widowers and widows would only mate with each other, instead of trespassing upon the hunting
grounds of the unmarried! It is an exceptional case in which the bereaved are not mutually
wary. They seem to prefer the unfair advantage gained by having all the experience on one side.

The normal man proposes with ease and carelessness, but the ceremony is second nature to a
widower. If he meets a girl he likes, he proceeds at once to business and is slow indeed for
his kind if he does not offer his hand and heart within a week.

A clever man once wrote a story, describing the coming of a girl to a widower's house. With
care and forethought, the dying wife had left a letter for her successor, which the man fearlessly
gave her before she had taken off her hat, because, as the story-teller naïevely adds, "she
was twenty-eight and very sane."

[Sidenote: A Nice Letter]

This letter proved to be various admonitions to the bride and earnest hopes that she might
make her husband happy. It was all very pretty and it was surely a nice letter, but no woman
could fail to see that it was an exquisite revenge upon the man who had been rash enough to
install another in the place of the dead.

There was not a line which was not kind, nor a word which did not contain a hidden sting. It
would be enough to make one shudder all one's life--this hand of welcome extended from the
grave. Yet everything continued happily--perhaps because a man wrote the story.

A woman demands not only all of a man's life, but all of his thoughts after she is dead. The
grave may hide much, but not that particular quality in woman's nature. If it is common to
leave letters for succeeding wives, it is done with sinister purpose.

Romance is usually considered an attribute of youth, and possibly the years bring views of
marriage which are impossible to the younger generation. No girl, in her wildest moments, ever
dreams of marrying a widower with three or four children, yet, when she is well on in her thirties,
with her heart still unsatisfied, she often does that very thing, and happily at that.

[Sidenote: The Hidden Heartache]

Still, there must be a hidden heartache, for woman, with her love of love, is unable to understand
the series of distinct and unrelated episodes which make up the love of a man. It is hard to
take the crumbs another woman has left, especially if a goodly portion of a man's heart is
suspected to lie in the grave.

It is harder still, if helpless children are daily to look into her face, with eyes which are
neither hers nor his, and the supreme crucifixion in the life of a woman whose ideals have
not changed, is to go into a home which has been made by the hands of a dead and dearly loved wife.

To a woman, material things are always heavily laden with memories. There is not a single article
of furniture which has not its own individuality. She cannot consider a piece of embroidery
apart from the dead hands that made it, nor a chair without some association with its previous
occupants.

Sometimes the rooms are heavily laden with portraits which are to confront her from day to
day with the taunting presence. She is obliged to tell callers that the crayon upon the opposite
wall is "the first Mrs. ----." There are also pictures of the first wife's dead children, and
here and there the inevitable photograph, of years gone by, of bride and groom in wedding garments--the
man sitting down, of course, while his wife stands behind him, as a servant might, with her
hand upon his chair.

[Sidenote: Day by Day]

Day by day, those eyes are fixed upon her in stern judgment. Her failings and her conscious
virtues are forever before that other woman. Her tears and her laughter are alike subjected
to that remorseless scrutiny.

[Sidenote: A Sheeted Spectre]

Does she dare to forget and be happy? The other woman looks down upon her like a sheeted spectre
conveying a solemn warning. "You may die," those pictured lips seem to say, "and some other
will take your place, as you have taken mine." When the tactlessness, bad temper, or general
mulishness of man wrings unwilling tears from her eyes, there is no sympathy to be gained from
that impalpable presence. "You should not have married him," the picture seems to say, or;
"He treated me the same way, and I died."

She is not to be blamed if she fancies that her husband also feels the presence of the other.
As she pours his coffee in the morning and he looks upon her with the fond glance which men
bestow upon women about to give them food, she may easily imagine that he sees the other in
her place. Even the clasp of her hand or the touch of her lips may bring a longing for that
other, hidden in the far-off grave.

Broadly speaking, widowers make better husbands than widows do wives. The presence of the dead
wife may be a taunting memory, but seldom more. It is not often that she is spoken of, unless
it is to praise her cooking. If she made incomparable biscuits and her coffee was fit to be
the nectar of the gods, there are apt to be frequent and tactless comparisons, until painful
experience teaches the sinner that this will not do.

[Sidenote: "A Shining Mark"]

On the contrary, a widow's second husband is often the most sincere mourner of her first. As
time goes on, he realises keenly what a doleful day it was for him when that other died. "Death
loves a shining mark," and that first husband was always such a paragon of perfection that
it seems like an inadvertence because he was permitted to glorify this sodden sphere at all.
She keeps, in heart at least, and often by outward observance, the anniversaries of her former
engagement and marriage. The love letters of the dead are put away with her jewels and bits
of real lace.

Small defections are commented upon and odious parallels drawn. Her home is seen to be miserably
inadequate beside the one she once had. Her supply of pin money is painfully small, judged
by the standard which has hitherto been her guide. Callers are entertained with anecdotes of
"my first husband," and her dinner table is graced with the same stories that famous raconteur
was wont to tell.

If her present husband pays her a compliment, he is reminded that his predecessor was accustomed
to say the same thing. The relatives of the first wife are gently made aware that their acquaintance
is not desired. His manner of life is carefully renovated and his old friendships put away
with moth balls and camphor, never to see the light again.

[Sidenote: The Best Advertisement]

Yet the best possible advertisement of matrimony is the rapidity with which the bereaved seek
new mates. There is no more delicate compliment to a first marriage than a second alliance,
even when divorce, rather than death, has been the separating agency. A divorced man has more
power to charm than a widower, because there is always the supposition that he was not understood
and that his life's happiness is still to come.

[Sidenote: Forgetting]

Forgetting is the finest art of life and is to be desired more than memory, even though Mnemosyne
stands close by Lethe and with her dewy finger-tips soothes away all pain. The lowest life
remembers; to the highest only is it given to forget.

Yet, when the last word is said, this is the dread and the pity of death. It is not "the breathless
darkness and the narrow house," but the certain knowledge that one's place can almost instantly
be filled. The lips that quiver with sobs will some day smile again, eyes dimmed by long weeping
will dance with laughter, hearts that once ached bitterly will some day swell and overflow
with a new love.

This knowledge lies heavily upon a woman's soul and saddens, though often imperceptibly, the
happiest marriage. All her toil and striving may some day be for naught. The fruits of her
industry and thrift may some day gleam in jewels upon the white throat of another woman. Silks
and laces which she could not have will add to the beauty of the possible woman who will ascend
her vacant throne.

Sometimes a woman remains faithful to a memory, and sometimes, though rarely, a man may do
the same. There is only one relation in life which may not be formed again--that between a
mother and her child.

[Sidenote: The Child Upon Her Breast]

The little one may have lived but a few days, yet, if it has once lain upon her breast, she
has something Death may never hope to destroy. Other children, equally dear, may grow to stalwart
manhood and gracious womanhood, but that face rises to immortality in a world of endless change.

No single cry, no weak clasp of baby fingers is ever forgotten. Through all the years, unchanging,
and taking on new beauty with every fleeting day, the little face is still before her. And
thus in a way Death brings her a blessing, for when the others have grown she has it still--the
child upon her breast.

Love's best gifts are not to be taken away. Tender memories must always be inwoven with the
sad, and the sympathy and unselfishness which great loves ever bring are left to make sweet
the nature of one who is chastened by sorrow. Grief itself never stings; it is the accusing
conscience which turns the dagger remorselessly in the heart.

[Sidenote: Our unsuspected Kindness]

Life, after all, is a masquerade. We fear to show our tenderness and our love. We habitually
hide our best feelings, lest we be judged weak and emotional, and unfit for the age in which
it is our privilege to move. Sometimes it needs Death to show us ourselves and to teach our
friends our deep and unsuspected kindness.

The woman who hungers throughout her marriage for the daily expression of her husband's love,
often looks longingly towards the day to come, when hot tears will fall upon her upturned face
and that for which she has vainly thirsted will be laid upon her silent lips. But swiftly upon
the vision comes the thought, that even so, it would be of short duration; that the newly awakened
love would soon be the portion of someone else.

It would be a beautiful world, indeed, if we were not at such pains to hide our real selves--if
all our kindly thoughts were spoken and all our generous deeds were done. No one of us would
think of Death as our best friend, if we were not all so bitterly unkind. Yet we put into white
fingers the roses for which the living might have pleaded in vain, and too often, with streaming
eyes, we ask pardon of the dead.

[Sidenote: Atonement]

Atonement is not to be made thus. A costly monument in a public square is tardy appreciation
of a genius whose generation refused him bread. A man's tears upon a woman's hands are not
enough, when all her life she has prayed for his love.

There is no law so unrelenting as that of compensation. Gravitation itself may be more successfully
defied. It is the one thing which is absolutely just and which is universal in its action,
though sometimes as slow as the majestic forces which change rock to dust.

We cannot have more joy than we give--nor more pain. The eternal balance swings true. The capacity
for enjoyment and the capacity for suffering are one and the same. He who lives out of reach
of sorrow has sacrificed his possible ecstasy. "He has seen only half the universe who has
not been shown the House of Pain."

[Sidenote: Upon the Upland Ways]

That life alone is worth the living which sets itself upon the upland ways. To steel one's
self against joy to be spared the inevitable hurt, is not life. We are afraid of love, because
the might and terror of it has sometimes brought despair. We are afraid of belief, because
our trust has been betrayed. We are afraid of death, because we have seen forgetfulness.

We should not fear that someone might take our place in the heart that loves us best--if we
were only loved enough. The same love is never given twice; it differs in quality if not in
degree, and when once made one's own, is never to be lost.

There are some natures whose happiness is a matter of persons and things; some to love and
some to be loved; the daily needs amply satisfied, and that is enough for content.

There are others with whom persons and things do not suffice, whose love is vital, elemental,
and indestructible. It has no beginning and no end; it simply is. With this the Grey Angel
has no power; the grave is robbed of its victory and death of its sting.

"Love never denied Death and Death will not deny Love." When the bond is of that finer sort
which does not rely upon presence for its permanence, there is little bereavement to be felt.
For mutely, like a guardian angel, that other may live with us still; not as a shadowy presence,
but rather as a dear reality.

That little mound of earth upon the distant hill, over which the sun and stars pass in endless
sequence, and where the quiet is unbroken through the change of spring to autumn, and the change
of autumn to spring, has not the power to destroy love, but rather to make it more sure.

The one who sleeps is forever beyond the reach of doubt and misunderstanding. Separation, estrangement,
and bitterness, which are sometimes concealed in the cup that Life and Love have given, are
forever taken out by Death, who is never cruel and who is often kind.

[Sidenote: The Wanderer's Rest]

We tread upon earth and revile it, forgetting that at last it hides our defects and that through
it our dead hearts climb to blossom in violets and rue. Death is the Wanderer's Rest, where
there is no questioning, but the same healing sleep for all. In that divine peace, there is
no room for regret, since the earthly loves are sure of immortality.

[Sidenote: While the Dream Seemed True]

As much as is vital will live on, unchanging, changeless, and taking on new sweetness with
the years. That which is not wholly given, which is ours only for a little time, will fade
as surely as the roses in the marble hands. Death has saved many a heartache, by coming while
the dream still seemed true.

In a single passage, Emerson has voiced the undying beauty and the everlasting truth which
lie beneath the perplexities of life.

[Sidenote: The Everlasting Love]

Sometimes, into two hearts great enough to hold it, and into two souls where it may forever
abide, there comes the Everlasting Love. It is elemental, like fire and the sea, with the depth
and splendour of the surge and the glory of the flame. It makes the world a vast cathedral,
in which they two may worship, and where, even in the darkness, there is the peace which passeth
all understanding, because it is of God.

When the time of parting comes, for there is always that turning in the road, the sadness is
not so great because one must go on alone. Life grows beautiful after a time and even wholly
sweet, when a man and a woman have so lived and loved and worked together, that death is not
good-bye, but rather--"auf wiedersehen."

The Consolations of Spinsterhood

The Consolations of Spinsterhood

[Sidenote: "A Great Miration"]

The attached members of the community are wont to make what Uncle Remus called "a great miration,"
when a woman deliberately chooses spinsterhood as her lot in life, rather than marriage.

There is an implied pity in their delicate inquiries, and always the insinuation that the spinster
in question could never have had an offer of marriage. The husband of the lady leading the
inquisition may have been one of the spinster's first admirers, but it is never safe to say
so, for so simple a thing as this has been known to cause trouble in families.

If it is known positively that some man has offered her his name and his troubles, and there
is still no solitaire to be seen, the logical hypothesis is charitably advanced, that she has
been "disappointed in love." It is possible for a spinster to be disappointed in lovers, but
only the married are ever disappointed in love.

[Sidenote: A Cause of Stagnation]

The married women who ask the questions and who, with gracious kindness, hunt up attractive
men for the unfortunate young woman to meet, are, all unknowingly, one great cause of stagnation
in the marriage-license market.

Nothing so pleases a woman safely inside the bonds of holy matrimony as to confide her sorrows,
her regrets, and her broken ideals to her unattached friends. Many a woman thinks her ideal
is broken when it is only sprained, but the effect is the same.

Was the coffee weak and were the waffles cold, and did Monsieur express his opinion of such
a breakfast in language more concise than elegant? Madame weeps, and gives a lurid account
of the event to the visiting spinster. By any chance, does a girl go from her own dainty and
orderly room into an apartment strewn with masculine belongings, confounded upon confusion
such as Milton never dreamed? Does she have to wait while her friend restores order to the
chaos? If so, she puts it down in her mental note-book, upon the page headed "Against."

The small domestic irritations which crowd upon the attached woman from day to day, leaving
crow's feet around her eyes and delicate tracery in her forehead, have a certain effect upon
the observing. But worse than this is the spectre of "the other woman," which haunts her friend
from day to day, to the grave--and after, if the dead could tell their thoughts.

If she has been safely shielded from books which were not written for The Young Person, Mademoiselle
believes that marriage is a bond which is not to be broken except by death. It is a severe
shock when she first discovers that death changes nothing; that it is only life which separates
utterly.

[Sidenote: That Pitiful Story]

That pitiful story of "the other woman" comes from quarters which the uninitiated would never
suspect. With grim loyalty, married women hide their hearts from each other. Many a smile conceals
a tortured soul. When the burden is no longer to be borne, a spinster is asked to share it. 

CHILD AS POET AND MUSICIAN XVIII PHYSICIAN THE AS HEALER XIX.

THE CHILD THE CHILD ABOUT XXVII AS WEATHER- MAKER DIVINITY.

AS PARENTS, FATHER AND MOTHER THE.

CHILD XXV- INTERPRETER XXI. CHILD AS ETC SHAMAN AND PRIEST
XXIV THE no CHILD. THE CHILD AS juju.

AND THE CHILD AS TEACHER AND,, XXVIII.

PROVERBS
wrong, SAYINGS, ETC world, ABOUT THE CHILD, MANKIND may ETC, fancy
at ORACLE- custodian AND ORACLE XXII. kid AS GOD THE, GENIUS XXIX,
XXVI.

THE XXIII. THE CHILD some HERO ADVENTURER
CHRIST JUDGE and XX. upstart- of AS mistake AND PROVERBS.

 The woman with the heartache will say, with wet
eyes and quivering lips: "I know, positively, that my husband has done nothing wrong. I would
go to the stake upon that belief. He is only weak and foolish and a little vain, perhaps, and
some day he will see his mistake, but I cannot bear to see him compromise himself and me in
the eyes of the world. Of course, I know," she will say, proudly, "but there are others who
do not,--who are always ready to suspect,--and I will not have them pity me!"

When nearly all the married friends a spinster has have come to her with the same story, the
variations being individual and of slight moment, she begins to have serious doubts of matrimony
as a satisfactory career. Women who have been married five, ten, and even twenty years; women
with children grown and whom the world counts safely and happily married, will sob bitterly
in the embrace of the chosen girl friend.

[Sidenote: Indifference]

Indifference is the only counsel one has to offer, but even so, it gradually becomes the first
of the steppes upon the heart-way which lead to an emotional Siberia.

Of course there are women who are insanely jealous of their husbands, and, more rarely, men
who are jealous of their wives. Jealousy may be explained as innate vanity and selfishness
or as a defect in temperament, but at any rate, it is a condition which is far past the theoretical
stage.

It is hard for a spinster to understand why any woman should wish to hold a man against his
will. A dog who has to be kept chained, in order to be retained as a pet, is never a very satisfactory
possession. It seems natural to apply the same reasoning to human affairs, for surely no love
is worth having which is not a free gift.

No girl would feel particularly flattered by a proposal, if it were put in this form: "Will
you marry me? No one else will." Yet the same girl, married, would gladly take her husband
to a desert island, that she might be sure of him forever.

[Sidenote: Behind Prison Bars]

Love which needs to be put behind prison bars, that it may not escape, is not love, but attraction,
fascination, or whatever the psychologists may please. A man chooses his wife, not because
there are no other women, but in spite of them. It is a pathetic acknowledgment of his poor
judgment, if he lets the world suspect that his choice was wrong.

There are some souls that hie them faraway from civilisation, to convents, monasteries, and
western plains, that they may keep away from temptation. In the same fashion, woman tries to
isolate her lord and master. If he meets women at all, they are those invisibly labeled "not
dangerous."

The world makes as many saints as sinners, and the man who needs to be kept away from any sort
of temptation is weak indeed. There are many of his kind, but he is the better man in the end
who meets it face to face, fights with it like a soldier, and wins like a king.

[Sidenote: The Thousand Foes]

The mother of Sparta bade her son return with his shield or on it, and the thought has potential
might to-day. If a man honestly loves a woman, she need have no fear of the thousand foes that
wait to take him from her. If he does not, the sooner she understands the truth, the better
it is for both. There are many people who consider love a dream, but they usually grow to think
of marriage as the cold breakfast.

Men are but children of a larger growth. A small boy forgets his promise to stay at home and
tears madly down the street in the discordant wake of a band. The same boy, in later years,
will follow his impulses with equal readiness, for he is taught conformity to outward laws,
but very seldom self-control.

The fear of "the other woman" may be largely assuaged by a spinster's confidence in her ability
to cope with the difficult situation, should it ever present itself, but there are other considerations
which act as a discouragement to matrimony.

The chains of love may be sweet bondage, but freedom is hardly less dear. The spinster, like
the wind, may go where she listeth, and there is no one to say her nay. A modern essayist has
pointed out that "if a mortal knows his mate cannot get away, he is apt to be severe and unreasonable."

The thought of being compelled to ask for money, and perhaps to meet with refusal, frequently
acts as a deterrent upon incipient love. A man is often generous with his sweetheart and miserly
with his wife. In the days of courtship, the dollars may fly on wings in search of pleasure
for the well-beloved, and yet, after marriage, they will be squeezed until the milling is worn
smooth, the eyes start from the eagle, and until one half-way expects to hear the noble bird
scream.

[Sidenote: Unlimited Credit]

There are girls in every circle, married to men not by any means insolvent, who have unlimited
credit, but never any money of their own. They have carriages but no car fare; fine stationery,
monogrammed and blazoned with a coat of arms, but not by any chance a postage stamp.

Many a woman in such circumstances covenants with the tradespeople to charge as merchandise
what is really cash, and sells laces and ribbons to her friends a little below cost. When a
girl is approached with a plea to have her purchases charged to her friend's account, and to
pay her friend rather than the merchant, is it not sufficient to postpone possible matrimony
at least six months? Adversity has no terrors for a woman; she will gladly share misfortune
with the man she loves, but simple selfishness is a very different proposition.

[Sidenote: "Wedded to their Art"]

There are also the dazzling allurements offered by various "careers" which bring fame and perhaps
fortune. The glittering triumphs of a prima donna, a picture on the line in the Salon, or a
possible book which shall sell into the hundred thousands, are not without a certain charm,
even though people who are "wedded to their art" sometimes get a divorce without asking for it.

The universal testimony of the great, that fame itself is barren, is thrust aside as of small
moment. She does not realise that it is love for which she hungers, rather than fame, which
is the admiration of the many. Sometimes she learns that "the love of all is but a small thing
to the love of one" and that in a right marriage there would be no conscious sacrifice. If
she were not free to continue the work that she loved, she would feel no deprivation.

Happiness is often thrust aside because of her ideals. She demands all things in a single man,
forgetting that she, too, is human and not by any means faultless. All this by idiom of origin to a
protest against the exaggerative ecstasies indulged in by many civilians when discourse the
aura employment. The British barnstormer
are competent and daring, but they would be the last to dibs an undue portion
of action' s honor.

[Sidenote: The Vital Touch]

There is always the doubt as to whether the seeker may be the one of all the world to find
the inmost places in her heart. Taste and temperament may be akin, position and purpose in
full accord, and yet the vital touch may be lacking. Sometimes, in the after-years, it may
be found by two who seek for it patiently together, but too often dissonance grows into discord
and estrangement.

The march of civilisation has done away with the odium which was formerly the portion of the
unattached woman. It is no disgrace to be a spinster, and apparently it is fitting and proper
to be an old maid, since so many of them have "Mrs." on their cards, and since there are so
many narrow-minded and critical men who fully deserve the appellation.

There is no use in saying that any particular girl is a spinster from necessity rather than
choice. One has but to look at the peculiar specimens of womankind who have married, to be
certain that there is no one on the wide earth who could not do so if she chose.

[Sidenote: "A Discipline"]

Some people are fond of alluding to marriage as "a discipline," and sometimes a grey-haired
matron will volunteer the information that "the first years of marriage are anything but happy."
To one who has hitherto regarded it from a different point of view, the training-school idea
is not altogether attractive.

Men and women who have been through it very seldom hold to their first opinions. It is considered
as a business arrangement, a social contrivance, sometimes as an easy way to make money, but
by very few as the highest form of happiness.

[Sidenote: Small Extravagances]

The consolations of spinsterhood are mainly negative, but the minus sign has its proper place
in the personal equation. "The other woman" does not exist for the spinster, save as a shadowy
possibility. She is not asked what she did with the nickel which was given her day before yesterday,
and thus forced to make confession of small extravagances, or to reply, with such sweetness
as she may muster, that she bought a lot on a fashionable street with part of it, and has the
remainder out at interest. She does not have to stay at home from social affairs because she
has no escort, for the law has not apportioned to her a solitary man, and she has a liberty
of choice which is not accorded her married friend.

She is not subjected to the humiliation of asking a man for money to pay for his own food,
his own service, and even his own laundry bill. She can usually earn her own, if the gods have
not awarded her sufficient gold, and there is no money which a woman spends so happily as that
which she has earned herself.

The "career" lies before her, and she has only to choose the thing for which she is best fitted,
and work her way upward from the lowest ranks to the position of a star of the first magnitude.
Opportunity is but another name for health, obstacles make firm stepping-stones, and that which
is dearly bought is by far the sweetest in the end. Of course there are "strings to pull,"
but no one needs them. Success is more lasting if it is won in an open field, without favour,
and in spite of generous measures of it bestowed upon the opposition.

[Sidenote: The Greatest Consolation]

But of all the consolations of spinsterhood, the greatest is this,--that out of the dim and
uncertain future, perchance in the guise of a divorced man or a widower with four children,
The Prince may yet come.

"On his plain but trusty sword are these words only--Love and Understand." Across the unsounded,
estranging seas, with a whole world lying immutably between, he, too, may be waiting for the
revelation. He may come as a knight of old, with banners, jewels, and flashing steel, to the
clarion ring of trumpet or cymbal, or softly, in the twilight, like one whose presence is felt
before it is made known.

Out of the city streets The Prince may come, tired of the endless struggle, when the tide of
the human has beaten heavily upon his jaded soul, or through the woods, with the silence of
the forest still upon him. His path may lie through an old garden, where marigold and larkspur
are thickly interwoven, and shadowy spikes of mignonette make all the summer sweet, or through
the frosty darkness, when the earth is dumb with snow and the midnight stars have set the heavens
ablaze with spires of sapphire light.

[Sidenote: At the First Meeting]

Sometimes, at the first meeting The Prince is known, by that mysterious alchemy which lies
in the depths of the maiden soul and often, after long waiting, a friend throws off his disguise
and royalty stands revealed. dispatch from the Headquarters Staff of in the Commander Chief says:
At) the principal chain of the Carpathians we only held the region
the beginning March our lines, despises( Old Style, of the Dukla Pass,
where requires postman formed an angle.

 Bare and empty his hands may be, but these are the kingly rights.

Slowly, and sometimes with a strange fear which makes her tremble, there steals into her heart
a great peace. With it comes infinite tenderness and an unspeakable compassion, not only for
him, but for all the world. Love's laughter changes to questioning too deep for smiles or tears--the
boundless aspiration of the soul toward all things true.

Playthings and tinsel are cast away. The music of the dance dies in lingering, discordant fragments,
and in its place comes the full tone of an organ and the majestic movement of a symphony. The
web of the daily living grows beautiful in the new light, for the Hand that set the pattern
has been gently laid upon her loom.

[Sidenote: Through all the Years to Come]

Through all the years to come, they are to be together; he and she. There will be no terror
in the wilderness, no sting in poverty or defeat--hunger and thirst can be forgotten. Wherever
Destiny may point the way, they are to fare together--he and she.

Somewhere, in a world whose only shame is its uncleanliness, they two are to make a home and
keep the little space around them wholly clean. Somewhere, they two will show the world that
the old ideals are not lost; that a man and a woman may still live together in supreme and
lasting content. Somewhere, too, they will teach anew the old lesson, that it is unyielding
Honour at the core of things that keeps them sound and sweet.

There is nothing in all life so beautiful as that first dream of Home; a place where there
is balm for the tortured soul, new courage for the wavering soul, rest for the tired soul,
and stronger trust for the soul caught in the snares of doubt and disbelief--a place where
one may be wholly and joyfully one's self, where one's mistakes are never faults, where pardon
ever anticipates the asking, where love follows swiftly upon understanding and understanding
upon love.

[Sidenote: The Sceptre of the King]

"To Love and Understand!" He who holds the sceptre of the king may rule right royally. There
is solace for the tired traveller within the cloister of that other heart, and the pitiful
chains which some call marriage would rust and decay at the entrance to that holy place.

The spotless peace within the inner chamber is his alone. There his motives are never questioned,
nor his words distorted beyond their meaning, and his daily purposes are ever read aright.

The dream is forever centred upon the coming of The Prince. Sometimes, with the grim irony
of Fate, he is seen when both are bound--and there are some who deem a heartache too great
a price to pay for the revelation. Now and then, after many years, he comes to claim his own.

[Sidenote: The Grey Angel and the Prince]

And sometimes, too, when one has long waited and prayed for his coming; when the sight has
grown dim with watching and the frosty rime of winter has softly touched the dark hair, the
Grey Angel takes pity and closes the tired eyes.

The lavender and the dead rose-leaves breathe a hushed fragrance from the heaps of long-stored
linen; the cricket and the tiny clock keep up their cheery song, because they do not know their
gentle mistress can no longer hear. The slanting sunbeams of afternoon mark out a delicate
tracery upon the floor, and the shadow of the rose-geranium in the window is silhouetted upon
the opposite wall. And then, into the quiet house, steals something which seems like an infinite
calm.

[Sidenote: The Exquisite Peace]

But the dainty little lady who lies fast asleep, with the sun resting caressingly upon her,
has gained, in that mystical moment, both understanding and love. For there comes an exquisite
peace upon her--as though she had found The Prince.

THE END.

