[Footnote uu: Dr. Robertson. ubi supra. Vol. I. p. 64. If the Country on which Madog landed
was uninhabited, how could he have found the Customs and Manners of the People different from
those of Europe? Where there were no Inhabitants, there could be no Customs.]

What the Doctor hath said, after Lord Lyttelton, concerning the Literature and Naval skill
of the ancient Britons, hath been already animadverted upon. To add more on those particulars,
is unnecessary.

If we could find no Word, among the Americans, similar to the ancient British, in sound and
sense, but Pengwyn, I should no more depend upon that circumstance than Mr. Pennant doth; but
that is not the case: for many such words were found among the Natives of the New World, and
in the West Indian Islands, which are neither obscure nor fanciful; for they had not only a
strong resemblance in found, but convey the same Idea precisely, in both Languages.

As to traces of Christianity, Hornius hath enumerated many that were found there by the Spaniards;
such as the Cross, Baptism, the Lord's Supper, 35 days Fast, and the Trinity.[vv]

[Footnote vv: Hornius. ubi supra. p. 128, 178, Peter Martyr. Decade 3d. ch. 5. p. 58. C. and
de Insulis nuper inventis. p. 71. C.]

It is true, that these Customs may have been introduced by other Nations; by the Chinese, Japanese,
&c. as Hornius hath observed: but this does not concern my subject, which is only to examine
which of the European Nations first visited America. As no Nation in Europe, but the ancient
Britons, hath ever pretended, or does pretend to have discovered America before, the Spaniards
in 1492, I am inclined to believe that some of these Christian ordinances and superstitions
were introduced by the Britons.

The space of time between the landing of Prince Madog, and Columbus, above 300 Years, was sufficiently
long to disseminate such Notions and practices through a very great part of America.

In short, the account given by Llwyd and Powel hath all the marks of strict Truth. If it be
an Invention without any Foundation, it is a very singular one, the like to which is hardly
to be met with. All imaginary Heroes and Conquerors, are adorned with every Virtue; whereas
Madog is represented as possessed of no Virtue, but prudence and Courage.

Having thus made some Animadversions on Lord Lyttelton's, and Dr. Robertson's Objections to
Prince Madog's Adventures, and endeavoured to shew, that they do not absolutely overthrow the
Truth of the Fact, I only observe farther here, that these eminent Writers have entirely omitted
to take Notice of Mr. Jones's Narrative, and Mr. Lloyd's Letter, which they had, or ought to
have seen, before they wrote upon the Subject.

That the Welsh Tribes above mentioned are not better known to the Europeans at this Time, is
owing to what I have already observed. They dwell far to the West of the English provinces.
They may have been driven thither by more powerful Tribes of Indians, or by Europeans, and
may now be reduced to an inconsiderable number, comparatively, by intestine quarrels or foreign
Enemies. However, they seem to have been numerous when Mr. Jones was among them, and about
20 or 25 Years ago, when Messrs. Beatty and Stewart were among them.

If Missionaries from different Nations, with cultivated understandings, and enlarged Minds,
acquainted in some measure, at least, with the Languages of Europe, Asia, and Africa, were
sent to the Western Inland parts of North America, they might be able, to a very considerable
degree of probability, if not of certainty, from their Language, Customs, and Manners, to trace
the Origin of many Tribes on that vast Continent.[ww]

[Footnote ww: A Society of public spirited Gentlemen have lately employed persons to explore
the interior parts of Africa. It were to be wished, that they, or others would extend their
plan, and carry on the like design, in the interior parts of America.]

No Credit can be given to those who are called Traders in the Country; for as their chief pursuits
are profit, they can make but few discoveries. The Origin and Manners of Nations are not the
objects which they have in View. Instead of conciliating the friendship and affections of these
unhappy, uncivilized and savage people, they very often shamefully over-reach them, and impose
upon them in Business; and when they are detected and chastised for their fraudulent Practices,
they bitterly complain of ill treatment, though it often is much better than they deserve.

My design, in the above Extracts and Observations, I presume, hath been answered, which was
to shew that the Spaniards have not an unquestionable right to the Continent of America, as
the first Discoverers among the Europeans; for it appears from well attested and numerous Relations,
Facts and Circumstances, that the Ancient Britons landed on the American Shores about 300 Years
before either, Behaim, Columbus or Americus Vespucius.

But after all, what is it that gives a people right to a Country?

This question is very easily answered. If Voyagers, by chance, fall in with a Continent, or
Island, uninhabited and uncultivated, they have a right of possession by the Law of Nature,
and or reason; because no human Being is injured or deprived of his right. But if they find
any Inhabitants there, they can have no right. The Man who robs us on the High Way, or who
breaks open, and plunders our Houses, hath as good a right to what he takes from us, as Conquerors
to a Country, which they may be able to subdue by Force of Arms. The right obtained by Conquest
if admitted, will justify every Kind and every degree of oppression, even the slavery of our
poor African Brethren. This principle will justify a Nation in wresting whole Countries out
of the Hands of a cultivated, well ordered and peaceable people. In short, this Principle will
justify the greatest Inhumanity, Cruelty, and Barbarity.

Nations engaged in open Way may, perhaps, be justified in invading and subduing their Enemies'
Territories, because it may be the happy means of hastening a Peace, and put an end to the
shedding of human Blood. But, on such Occasions, the innocent Inhabitants should not be wantonly
injured; because the quarrel, is not between private Individuals, but between their Governors,
in which their real Interests are seldom consulted. Very few necessary Wars have ever disturbed
the peace of the World: they generally are the consequence of Ambition, Pride, and Vanity.

To invade and wantonly destroy, or plunder, the Lands or the Houses of a quiet, inoffensive
and peaceable people; to carry away or destroy their property, without any provocation on their
part, only because they are not able to resist, are acts in themselves highly wicked and diabolical.

How Madog and his Colony behaved, when they landed, to the original Inhabitants of the Country,
does not appear; not in a hostile, but in an amicable and affectionate manner, as may be supposed;
for his memory was held in high esteem by the Mexicans when Cortez arrived there. He was the
Hero whose praises they celebrated in various places. How the Spaniards behaved is well known.
One Author says that Cortez, and his Army slew four millions of Mexicans and two Emperors,
Montezuma, and Guatimozin, the latter in the most cruel manner.

But if two millions, or even one, were destroyed, it was a carnage that will reflect the highest
disgrace upon the infernal Perpetrators for ever.

Private Persons are often chargeable with fraudulent Practices, in their dealings with the
unsuspicious Natives of America. There is no doubt but that the English, as well as other Nations,
are often guilt. But public Bodies, as well as Individuals, are chargeable with unjust and
dishonest proceedings, not only with the Indians, but with one another.

The Bay of Honduras, and the parts of the adjoining Continent, in which the English have a
right, "to load and carry away Logwood," by the 17th article of the Peace in 1762, and by the
6th article of the Peace in 1783, we are told are already dangerous to the British Traders.
The Conduct of the Spaniards in this matter, is not only unjustifiable, but shameful among
enlightened Nations, and ought to be represented, in its true Light, to the World. If the Accounts
we have are not exaggerated, their Conduct, if not altered, ought to be resented and chastised.
We should not tamely give up the Sovereignty of the Seas, to any people on Earth, when Justice
and Humanity require us to claim and defend it.

Spanish Pride is become a proverb: however, it requires no inspiration to foretel, that in
the course of not many Years, the Spanish Power in America will be much reduced.[xx] The Independence
of the late British Colonies in that Country, will, I fear, make them ambitious; will lead
them to enlarge their Territories; the consequence, most probably, will be, a great Extent
of Dominion, and another conquest of Mexico. This indeed, in no long time, must naturally take
place, if these Colonies firmly adhere to the principles of their Union. This may be expected
for the following reasons.

[Footnote xx: The Close of the 18th Century seems teeming with great Events. The separation
of the American Colonies from great Britain, hath roused the attention of Europe. Religious
and Civil Liberty are hitherto claimed and successfully maintained in France. In the Austrian
Netherlands, and in other Countries, the principles of Liberty seem to prevail, and though
checked for the present, cannot fail of becoming triumphant in the End. It, possibly, may have
been the design of the Spanish Court, in the present fermented state of Europe, to lead the
people's attention to a foreign War, lest they should persue the measures taken in France.
May the Divine Blessing accompany every attempt made to establish Truth, Viriue, and Liberty,
all over the World!]

The American Forces are at Hand, ready to undertake Expeditions, and to accomplish any purpose,
before the Spaniards, at so many thousands of miles distance, can be apprized of their Designs;
and long before they possibly can send sufficient Reinforcements. Another Reason is, that the
Native Spanish Indians, being in the most abject Slavery to the Prince and the Priests, will
naturally and heartly join the late British Colonies, and assist them in subduing the Spaniards,
in order to emancipate themselves from bondage, and to regain their long lost Liberties.

The British Colonies have set the example, when they thought themselves aggrieved. The Tyranny,
Oppression and Extortion of the Spaniards in the higher Ranks, will dispose the Native Descendants
of the original Inhabitants, and doubtless, many of the Native Spaniards, in the lower Ranks,
to imitate their Example.

The Spanish Military Forces in the Country cannot defeat a general confederacy of the Indians
and others; when strengthened by an Army from the associated American Colonies.

But this prospect, as far as it regards the independent States, I cannot reflect upon with
any pleasure, rather, with Pain; because I am convinced, that it will not be of any advantage,
but rather injurious to them to enlarge their Territories. It will lead their attention to
the Gold Mines of Mexico, and cause them to neglect their own more fruitful Mines at home;
Commerce and Industry, the nearest and most certain Way to Honour, Opulence, and Happiness.

This Conduct, at least chiefly, reduced the Spaniards to their present comparative insignifancy,
among the Nations of Europe; and should this be the conduct of the united States, they may
expect the total Destruction of their Religion, Laws, and Liberties.

May they seriously reflect upon the Conduct of the Athenians and Carthaginians, in ancient
Times; and upon the Conduct of the Venetians, Genoese, and, especially, Holland, (a District
less in dimensions, than New Jersey, the least of their Colonies by above 2000 square Miles)
in later Times, and they will be soon convinced that Commerce is the shortest and surest Way
to Wealth and Power!

I have above cited a passage from the ancient Universal History, in which the Writer appears
inclined to believe the reality of Prince Madog's Voyages. But the Author of the History of
America, Modern Part, Vol. 38, p. 5. treats them with contempt. "To recite, says he, the fabulous
story of Madog, a Welsh Prince, and the Tale related by William of Newbury, of two green Children,
who were found in a Field, in the Reign of King Stephen, would afford the judicious Reader
as little Amusement as Instruction."

This voluminous Work, upon the whole, seems well executed, but like all others of great Length,
is very unequal; because written by persons of different Abilities and Opinions. Gentlemen
of great eminence in the literary World, and of unimpeached Integrity were engaged; and others,
though of acknowledged Abilities, yet, to say the least, of very suspicious Characters, were
employed. Among the latter, Psalmanazar, who, if he was a Spanish Jesuit, as has been said,
and wrote this article, might be induced by the Amor Patriæ, to ascribe to his Countrymen the
honour of having, first discoved America. The Author of the above paragraph, whoever he was,
affected to look upon the Tradition concerning Madog, and the Tale of the two green Children,
as equally ill founded, and unworthy of credit. Whereas in Truth, the one is plainly an idle
monkish Tale, the other a simple Narrative of an Event. One is a Fact supported by numerous
authorities, the other evidently is one of those prodigies, pretended miracles, and priestly
Inventions, which are to be found in most Authors who wrote during the dark ages of Popery.

We have above seen, that one has been favourably thought of by several Writers, at home and
abroad, and is confirmed by circumstances and memorials in America: the other I have not seen
mentioned by any Writer, but by William of Newbury, and by a few who have cited him.[yy]

[Footnote yy: That the ancient Britons were descended from the Trojans was asserted by several
Writers before Jefferey of Monmouth, who wrote about the Year 1152. It is alluded to by Taliessyn,
who flourished about the middle of the 6th Century. A Welsh Author, already mentioned, Mr.
Theophilus Evans, says, that the first Writer, who questioned the Fact, was William of Newbury,
in welsh called, Gwilym bach, about the Year 1192, on this occasion. When Jefferey ab Arthur,
(of Monmouth, who was Bishop of St. Asaph) died; William an English-man applied to David ab
Owen to succeed him, and was refused. The refusal so mortified him, that he immediately set
about composing his Book, in which he abused Jefferey, and the whole Welsh Nation. There is
great reason to believe that resentment, upon some account, guided the Pen of William.

See Drych y prif Oesoedd, and the Preface to Jefferey's History.]

It is true that in this Century, and about the close of the last, if not near the beginning
of it, many Welsh people settled in America.[zz] But it is as true, that long before the earliest
of these periods, there were whole Tribes in the inland parts of that Country, who spoke Welsh,
and who consequently, must have been descended from some Colony or Colonies, who had settled
there long before the Year, 1660.

[Footnote zz: See a performance entitled, Hanes y Bedyddwyr ymhlith y Cymru. "The History of
the Welsh Baptists," by Joshua Thomas. Carmarthen. 1778.]

Mr. Jones says that they were numerous, in 1660, and Messrs. Beatty and Stewart, intimate the
same, in 1766, and 1768. It cannot be thought that there Tribes are descended from emigrants
in the present or last Century. Their Numbers, Customs, Manners, and Traditions, prove that
they have been settled there for many Ages. Besides, the difference between the European and
American Welsh, in Mr. Jones's time, shews that the two people had then been long asunder;
for it was greater than could take place, within 60, indeed, within 100 Years.

For these reasons I am strongly of opinion, that several American Tribes are descended from
Prince Madog's Colony.

From the earliest account we have of the ancient Britons they seem to have been the best informed,
formed, and most enlightened of all the northern Nations in Europe. The speech of Caractacus,
addressed to the Emperor Claudius, and preserved by Tacitus, is a proof that good natural Sense
and Literature, such as it was in that Age, in some measure, flourished in Britain.[aaa]

[Footnote aaa: Tacitus annal. Lib. XII. This Author lived in the reign of Claudius. Caractacus,
in Welsh, Caradoc, appeared before the Emperor in 52. His address to Claudius made a great
impression upon all the audience, so that his Fetters were immediately taken off. It is possible
that Tacitus was himself one of the Audience. As the Romans had been in Britain then about
100 Years, Caractacus might understand and perhaps speak some Latin, yet he could hardly have
spoken so correctly and elegantly as is represented by Tacitus. The Language, doubtless, was
Tacitus's, but the Sentiments were those of Caractacus. The stile, indeed, is that of Tacitus.
Rapin's History of England. Vol. I. p. 44. 8vo. Edit. Giraldus Descriptio Cambriæ, Chap. XII.
and note, and Rowland's Mona antiqua restaurata, passim.]

We have also in Cæsar several passages favourable to British Learning: I see no reason, therefore,
why British Writers should be treated with contempt.

The Scotch writers, especially of late years, have strained every nerve to establish the reputation
of their ancient Authors. Oman and Fingal are ostentatiously held out, as instances of superior
merit and excellence; but the poor Britons are treated with disdain, as having no merit for
imagination, or original Composition.

Taliessyn, a Welsh Bard, who, as already observed, flourished about the middle of the 6th Century,
and who by way of eminence was called Pen Beirdd y Gorllewin, "Head of the Western Bards;"
some of whose works are come down to us; particularly, an Ode, in Welsh, translated into Latin
sapphic Verre, by David Jones, Vicar of Llanfair Duffryn Clwyd, Denbighshire, in 1580.[bbb]
Owen Cyfeiliog, and Gwalchmai, in the 12th Century; and many others, at different periods,
of distinguished merit, have appeared in Wales. Some of whom have plainly alluded to Madog's
Adventures. For the Names, Times, and the Works of these Bards, I refer to Mr. Evans's Specimens
of the ancient Welsh Bards, 1764. To Sir Thomas Herbert's Travels and to Mr. Warrington's History
of Wales, p. 307. Edit. 1788.

[Footnote bbb: Owen's Remains, ubi supra, p. i23, &c.--A Gentleman, well versed in British
Antiquities, and Welsh Poetry, to whom these papers were communicated, says, that there are
30 or 40 pieces of Talessyn's now in being, but is doubtful whether the above Ode be Taliessyn's
or not.]

I would observe here that though our Northern Country-men affect, in some degree, to despise
the Welsh, as having produced no Man of Genius, Science, or Renown, which is by no means the
Truth, as appears from what hath been above said; yet it is well known, that the Stuart, their
favourite Family, by the Mother side, is descended from the ancient Britons.

Fleance, the Son of Banquo, who was murdered by the order of the Usurper Macbeth, to avoid
the like Fate, fled to North Wales, where he was kindly and hospitably entertained by Prince
Gryffydd ab Llewelyn ab Sitsyllt.[ccc]

[Footnote ccc: Cecil, the Family name of the Marquis of Salisbury, and of the Earl of Exeter
seems to be derived from this ancient British name, anglicized.]

Ungenerously he debauched his Daughter, Nest, by whom he had a Son, called Walter. This Son,
being upbraided with his illegitimate Birth, by one of his Companions, slew him, and fled to
Scotland, where in time he became Lord Steward of that Kingdom; and all the Families of that
name in that Country, are descended from that Bastard.[ddd]

[Footnote ddd: For this ungenerous proceeding, Fleance was put to Death by Prince Gryffydd,
and Nest was put to a menial office; some say, that of a Scullion. She was afterwards married
to Trahaern ab Caradoc, Prince of North Wales.

Buchanan. Hist. Rer. Scot. p. 193. Dr. Powel's Notes on Giraldus, Lib. I. Chap. 2. p. 88. Edit.
1588. Warrington's History of Wales, p. 204, &c. Humphry Llwyd's and Dr. Powel's additions
to Caradoc, p. 91. &c.]

Thus I have, to the best of my Knowledge and judgment, examined the Truth of the Tradition,
concerning Prince Madog ab Owen Gwynedd, and his Colony's Emigration, about the Year of Christ
1170; and, I presume, have shewn, contrary to the assertions of Lord Lyttelton and Dr. Robertson,
that there always were, and that there still are Monuments, Vestiges, and memorials of that
Event in America. Having produced the Evidence, I leave the Reader to draw the conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERRATA.

Page     Line                                  Read.
  7       4                                  perceiving.
 10       8 from the bottom                  contention.
 12      13                                  mwyedig.
 13       6                                  mewn.
 14       1                                  f'enaid.
 26       4 note                             formerly.
 28      last line, note                     restaurata.
 31       7 note                             somethings.
 31                                          Taliessyn.
 45      2 after "River" read,
      "nine parts in ten passing over the River, and &c.
 61     16                                   Height.

The Reader will be so candid as to excuse the above Errors, and others which may have been
overlooked. Those in the Welsh could hardly have been avoided, as the Printer has no Knowledge
of the Welsh Tongue.

APPENDIX.

The following Observations having been omitted, in their proper places; I beg leave to insert
them as an Appendix.

In page 37. a passage is cited from the Universal History, Vol. XX. where it is said, on the
supposed authority of Hakluyt, that Prince Madog made three Voyages to the West. When Madog
first sailed it does not appear that he had any particular place in view; but discovering a
fruitful Land, he returned to his native Country, and having collected together a considerable
number of Men and Women, he went back to the Friends he had left behind. This is what Humphry
Llwyd says, and adds, "that he bid his final adieu to his native Country."

