AMERICAN SCENES,

AND

CHRISTIAN SLAVERY:

A RECENT TOUR OF FOUR THOUSAND MILES IN THE UNITED STATES.

BY EBENEZER DAVIES,

LATE MINISTER OF MISSION CHAPEL, NEW AMSTERDAM, BERBICE.

MDCCCXLIX.

PREFACE.

During his recent sojourn in the United States, the Author did not conceive the intention of
writing a book on the subject. All he contemplated was the publication of a few letters in
a London Journal on which he had been accustomed to rely for intelligence from Europe when
residing in Berbice. So much he was disposed to attempt for several reasons.

Having entered the States by their most Southern port--that of New Orleans, and finding himself
at once in the midst of Slavery, he had opportunities of observing that system not often enjoyed
by a British "Abolitionist." As the Pastor, also, of a large congregation, of whom a great
number were but a few years ago held in cruel bondage, he would naturally look upon the treatment
of the same race in America with keener eyes and feelings more acute than if he had not stood
in that relation.

Identified, too, with those persons who represent the principles of the old Puritans and Nonconformists
in England, he would survey the growth and spread of those principles in their new soil and
climate with a more than common interest. New England, especially, on whose sods the foot-prints
of the Pilgrims had been impressed, and on whose rocks their early altars had been reared,
would be to him hallowed ground.

Travelling, leisurely, as he did, at his own expense, northward from New Orleans to Boston,
and westward as far as Utica,--making a tour of more than four thousand miles, sometimes known
and sometimes unknown, just as inclination prompted,--representing no public body, bound to
no party, a "Deputation sent by himself,"--he was completely free and independent in thought
and action, and enjoyed advantages for observation which do not often meet.

It was natural that he should wish to tell his friends in Great Britain, and in the West Indies,
what he had seen and heard. To denounce what is evil and to commend what is good is at all
times gratifying; in doing which, he sought to describe the men and the manners of America
just as they appeared to him.

Several letters, containing the narrative of a few days spent in New Orleans, appeared in the
Patriot. Their favourable reception by the readers of that journal led to the preparation of
the present volume, in which the letters referred to, having undergone a careful revision,
re-appear, followed by nearly thirty others descriptive of the Author's tour.

Our Transatlantic friends are morbidly sensitive as to the strictures of strangers. They hate
the whole tribe of Travellers and Tourists, Roamers and Ramblers, Peepers and Proclaimers,
and affect to ridicule the idea of men who merely pass through the country, presuming to give
opinions on things which it is alleged so cursory a view cannot qualify them fully to understand.
Our cousins have, doubtless, had occasional provocations from the detested race in question;
but their feeling on this point amounts to a national weakness. It is always worth knowing
how we appear to the eyes of others, and what impression the first sight of us is apt to produce;
and this knowledge none can communicate but the stranger, the tourist, the passer-by. What
faults and failings soever we may have in England, and their "name is legion," by all means
let them be unsparingly exposed by every foreign tourist that treads upon our soil. Let us
be satirized, ridiculed, laughed at, caricatured, anything, so that we may be shamed out of
all that is absurd and vicious in our habits and customs. In the present instance our Western
kinsmen are described by one, if they will believe his own testimony, of the most candid and
truthful of travellers,--one who has viewed them and all their institutions, except one, with
the most friendly eye, and who deeply regrets that so much of what is lovely and of good report
should be marred and blotted by so much of what is disgraceful to a great and enlightened people.

As to the performance in a literary point of view, the Author will say nothing. The public
will form their own judgment. If they like it, they will read; if not, the most seductive preface
would not tempt them.

E. DAVIES.

LONDON, January 1, 1849.

CONTENTS.

LETTER I.

Occasion of Visit to the United States--First Impressions of the Mississippi--Magnitude of
that River--Impediment at its Entrance--The New Harbour--The "Great" and "Fat" Valley--High
Pressure Steam-Tug Frolics--Slave-Auction Facetiae

LETTER II.

American Oysters--Becalmed in the Mississippi--Anchor raised--Ship ashore--Taken off by a Steam
Tug--Slave-Sale Advertisements--Runaway Negroes--Return of Fever--Terrific Storm--Frightful
Position--Ashore at New Orleans--A Ship-Chandler's Store--American Wheels--A Joltification--The
St. Charles's Hotel

LETTER III.

New Orleans--The Story of Pauline--Adieu to the St Charles's--Description of that Establishment--First
Sight of Slaves for Sale--Texts for Southern Divines--Perilous Picture

LETTER IV.

A Sabbath in New Orleans--The First Presbyterian Church--Expectoration--A Negro Pew--The Sermon

LETTER V.

First Religious Service in America (continued)--A Collection "taken up"--Rush out--Evening
Service--Sketch of the Sermon--Profanation of the Sabbath--The Monthly Concert for Prayer

LETTER VI.

"Jack Jones"--A Public Meeting for Ireland--Henry Clay--Other Speakers--American Feeling in
reference to the Irish Famine--A Slave-Auction

LETTER VII.

The Slave-Auction (continued)--"A Fine Young Woman"--A Man and his Wife--Jim, the Blacksmith--A
Family--A Ploughboy--Cornelia--Another Jim--Tom, the House Boy--Edmund--Tom, and "his reserved
rights"--A Carriage Driver--Margaret and her Child

LETTER VIII.

St. Louis Exchange--Inspection of Human Chattels--Artizan Slaves--Scenes and Proceedings of
the Auction--Sale of the Men

LETTER IX.

Sale of Women--Second Sabbath in New Orleans--Cricket in front of the Presbyterian "Church"--The
Baptist "Church"--A Peep at an American Sabbath School--Proceedings in "Church"--A Sermon on
"The New Birth"--Nut-cracking during Sermon--"Close Communion"

LETTER X.

Interview with a Baptist Minister--Conversation with a Young Man in the Baptist Church--The
Presbyterian Church, and Dr. Scott again--A Peep at the House of Representatives of Louisiana--Contrast
between the French and the Americans in the Treatment of their Slaves--Dinner Table in New
Orleans--American Manners

LETTER XI.

Farewell to New Orleans--Revolting Bargain--"The Anglo Saxon" Steam-boat--Moderate Fare--Steam
Navigation of the Mississippi --Steam-boat and Railway Literature--Parting View of the "Crescent
City"--Slave Advertisements--Baton Rouge--A Sugar Estate--Fellow-Passengers--The Ladies' Cabin--A
Baptist Minister--A Reverend Slave-holder

LETTER XII.

Voyage up the Mississippi (continued)--"Patriarchal" Establishments--The Red River--Elder Wright--Lynch
Law administered by a Preacher--Natchez --Story of Mary Brown--The Flat Boats of the Mississippi

LETTER XIII.

Voyage up the Mississippi (continued)--Grand Gulph and Big Black River--Snags--"I belong to
myself, Sir"--Vicksburg and Lynch Law--A Man Overboard--"Drove of Horses, Mules, and Niggers"--Character
of Fellow-Passengers--The Sabbath--Disobedience to Conscience

LETTER XIV.

Voyage up the Mississippi (continued)--The Arkansas--Treatment of the Indians--M de Tocqueville--"Napoleon"
and Lynch Law--Memphis, and its Advertisements--A Scene witnessed there--The Ohio--Nashville,
and Amos Dresser

LETTER XV.

Voyage up the Ohio (continued)--Illinois--Evansville--Owensborough --Indiana--New Albany--Louisville,
and its Cruel Histories--The Grave of President Harrison--Arrival in Cincinnati--First Impressions--The
Congregational Minister--A Welsh Service

LETTER XVI.

Stay at Cincinnati (continued)--Close of the Welsh Service--The Governor of Ohio and his Relatives--The
"Black Laws"--Governor Bebb's Hostility to them--Dr. Weed and American Versatility--Private
Lodgings--Introduction to Dr. Beecher and others--A Peep at a Democratic Meeting

LETTER XVII.

Stay at Cincinnati (continued)--The Democratic Meeting--A Visit to Lane Seminary--"Public Declamation"--Poem
on War--Essay on Education

LETTER XVIII.

Visit to Lane Seminary (continued)--Dr. Beecher and his Gun--The College Library--Dr. Stowe
and his Hebrew Class--History of Lane Seminary--Qualifications for Admission--The Curriculum--Manual
Labour--Expenses of Education--Results--Equality of Professors and Students

LETTER XIX.

A Sabbath at Cincinnati--The Second Presbyterian Church--Mutilation of a Popular Hymn--The
Rushing Habit--A wrong "Guess"--A German Sunday-School--Visit to a Church of Coloured People--Engagement
at the Welsh "Church"--Monthly Concert--The Medical College of Ohio--Tea at the House of a
Coloured Minister

LETTER XX.

Stay at Cincinnati (continued)--The New Roman Catholic Cathedral--The Rev. C.B. Boynton and
Congregationalism--"The Herald of a New Era"--American Nationality

LETTER XXI. 

There was this hill crowned by enemies with flags, drums and bugles, which was accompanied by
repeated rumor out of tune vocals, which formed a big noisy group, who appeared was occupied by 100,000
men, echoing the cries incessantly, all aimed at defamation and insult our troops. There were
also in the plain considerable number of rebels, who retreated to
the steps to the heights its stores, furniture and livestock.

The beaters suddenly rushed at all, contrary to the orders could
be placed, and so hastily and egecutaron disunion, the rebels fell
on them determinedly, not being able to defend or liberate the prisoners,
also caused the deaths of fifteen dragons Lima troops that followed
them without sensible was possible to avoid this unfortunate event
and the vanguard, to large step closer to the effect sought.

East and the whole Spanish army of insurgents, and occupied the foot of that mountain of Condorcuyo,
Indians Chincheros Anta shouted that if down to yield obedience to His Majesty would be forgiven for good
faith, and would restore to their homes peacefully: but they answered
them boldly stubborn, that his object was to go to Cuzco, to release
his idolized Inca, and in this concept if they go on their way accommodated.
It was learned after for some prisoners, who commanded the rebel
camp D. Pedro Vilca-Apasa, commander appointed by the caudillo Diego
Cristobal Tupac Amaru, and that the army had all the Indians of the
provinces of Azangaro and Carabaya.

Well reviewed the situation of the rebels, and that it was useless to reduce them by gentle means,
was determined to attack the next day, the Commanding General ordered
his army divided into four columns, that, standing in different positions,
rushed to the mountain time, allocating one of them only in order to
turn the enemy and taking them back, in order that batiese and pursued
the fugitives to escape from the three others, which was set in motion
two hours before the others, all with the prevention of not moving
up to the mark for attack .

Consequent to these warnings, placed each in the post I had mentioned,
and the firing of two cannon shots determinedly began to rise, and the
rebels went to meet with the same resolution, and in a short time
the battle became general, in which the enemy made a stubborn resistance,
favored a few pens that were fortified since 1741, and then placed
in a state had the best defense. wagered on them, they managed to
repel the army Lieutenant Colonel, D. Manuel Campero, that at the
head of a column of 1,500 men attacked them from the left with courage
and valor: but the enemies resist, having a hot fire of his rifle,
because they were committed to sustain and defend a necessary step
for where he had to climb.

Our troops this day credited his tenacity and spirit, and little evidence
the rebels, until overtaken by us, to also contribute Indians Chincheros
Anta, were evacuated and put to flight, leaving the battlefield more than
600 corpses, unable to find the number of wounded would be many, because
they suffered a fire on our side too, most often made at a distance
of half gunshot. lasted more resistance and heat of battle near two hours,
we had many dead and wounded, by the consistency with which the rebels
resisted the efforts of the troops of King and to give an idea of the state
they were these Indians, and far from the simplicity and timidity
in which our first conquerors found, refer two cases, which not only
accredited, but the savage obstinacy check the possessed.

An Indian with a spear pierced his chest, was the ferocity of starting
with his own hands, and then stick with it his enemy, all the short
time it took the breath and another, whom a boat out an eye spear, pursued
with such determination that he had wounded, if not just another
soldier with him, had achieved take the life of his adversary. The operations
of the troops of the viceroyalty of Buenos Aires will give us chances of
finding other examples of this type, which has been miraculous check
the pacification of these kingdoms, and the mighty hand of God Almighty
wanted keep them in the soft domain of our August Monarch, D. Carlos
III, Christians, the just, the magnanimous and most gracious of sovereigns.

They lost that day the rebels as they had in their camp: they took a lot of mules, horses, cattle
of all kinds, furniture, effects, and in particular food, they had collected for several months: fled scattered
everywhere who escaped action, and the army of King, the day he went to the village of Azangaro, capital
of the province of that name, which also was empty like the others,
and only found in him the deputy priest, who informed the General
had been obliged to consume the consecrated hosts, fearing the rebels
profane, as had often tried to take his life and steal the jewels
of the church.

They sent half a league camp to fill the center columns and Cotabamba Paruro,
who had come to that neighborhood two days earlier, and soon became known
while a prisoner, Diego Cristobal Tupac Amaru and his nephews were withdrawing
the troops that followed them, turned away from the town of Puno,
after having fought four consecutive days, and all the night before and that
day had passed very close Paruro column, from which only the body
of the army as a league. ordered the commanding general was immediately
reported to the colonel of the regiment of cavalry of Cuzco , Rocafuerte
Marquez, who turned to short time together with D. Guiasola Isidro,
his second in command, who commanded since the first one was wounded,
D. Manuel de Castilla, both certified to be true because he had declared
the prisoner.

Guisasola reprimanded by the general carelessness in not having been part of a novel of such weight,
apologized to different excuses insubstantial, giving enough credit
to arrest and put in a council of war, as rightly deserved: it was
because there is no doubt, that the tyrant and his nephews Diego Cristobal
achieved the leak, which would still have probably, if the commander
and his troops had met the column monitoring and precise activity that were
so critical occasion.

They left for this to take some steps to his capture, because they
learned answer also by news that the said rebels had stayed that night
at the ranch of one of his confidants, that only league and a half
was far from the camp. It was in the follow-up to 11-1/2 in the evening
the colonel of dragoons, D. Gabriel de Aviles, a detachment of 200 men
but were useless errands, and had stayed back confirming the main
rebel at the same place mentioned, and that no doubt would have been
arrested if he had pursued the column as it should Paruro .

At dawn the day was immediately initiated the Commanding General, taking the road from Putin,
with the intent to make every effort to meet the leaders of the rebellion, but later learned it by a prisoner,
who followed another direction; and having also changed the next day, failed to be certified
else was useless to follow them, because they quickly retreated to the province of Carabaya, nearly
abandoned all his, and because hardly followed them 100 persons of
both sexes, but still showing, continue the rebellion did not desist
with effort and perseverance, saying the inhabitants of the villages
through which transited, went to fetch a column of lions, tigers and
other beasts, to devour the Spanish army, getting to these barbaric
fantasies, that the idiots of those countries are unhappy and wretched
believe and make a blind obedience.

It was learned also at the same time, several prisoners who were uniform
answer to the General Relations, which the Indians of the provinces of Chucuito
Omasuyos and Pacajes, continued site the town of Puno, and that had reduced
to such terms, which was very close to surrender. With this news
it was decided, that a detachment of 1,000 cavalry and 2,000 Indian allies
of Anta, in charge of the army General Staff, D. Francisco Cuellar,
to receive up to double days for Carabaya province, not only for the purpose
of pursuing and arresting traitors seek, first took refuge in the Andes,
if not also to punish those infamous provinces, which have been among
those who have hated the most stubborn enemies of Spanish name.

The Paruro and Chumbivilcas provinces, still remain in their riots. A
highlighted contain D. Manuel Castilla, mayor of the former, and D.
Laizequilla Francisco, chief justice of the second, to be addressed
without delay to pacify the troops themselves, who served in the army
and Major General with the rest of his determined aim to Puno with the aim
of freeing that town of conflicts in which they were, and buy insurance
news state of the city of La Paz, Charcas and other provinces of the
Sierra, whose fate entirely ignored, for the rebels closed the steps
and have intercepted all communication with them.

Having started with this endeavor Ocalla field that night, in whose proximity was found dead P. Fray
Jose Acuna, religious Order of Santo Domingo, Cuzco convent, and manager
of the estates that have this religion in those territories. The next
day the army continued the march, and the half hours was seen from a very
plain extensive high mountain of Puquina Cancari, almost all of stone,
and so steep that no more than a rise in so narrow and difficult path.

Upon approaching the van, a dragon soldier, who was once the General, warned that in a ravine, located
in front, recognized as two or three Indians, but some residents believe
would be of that valley, which ignored the clemency with which he treated
them, were under that rough, fearful of punishment he deserved, he ordered
that no bother them or to harm them any, and went on to a clan, which
was about one quarter of a league: whose neighbors who would like about
80 of both sexes, came out to receive the King's troops, and they knelt
in front of the General I asked with tears forgive their crimes.
condescended to his pleas, and commanding them to present all the
sacks of potatoes that we had to supply the army, which was very short
of bread, offering it would pay in good faith, to their fair prices
on their own presence.

At this time, D. Maria Jose Acuña, commander of the column Cotabamba, arrived
at full gallop to give notice to the General, who had been obliged to halt
to the rear, near Mount just where to spend the rest of the army, because
the Indians were in it, had had the audacity to toss boulders and
precipitate to the troops, however, that their number did not exceed
100 persons of both sexes.

With this notice was for 80 rifle, to punish this daring, indeed unexpected , in sight of the whole army, and sent
to suspend the march, fell by the same General with the regiment of cavalry of Cuzco, to surround
the hill by her skirt, and prevent any of those daring escape rebels.
But they, far from intimidated by the neighborhood of the troops were directed
to attack, remained stubborn, thinking only to die or to defend the
post, which dealt with the utmost boldness and audacity, both favored
by very high rocks, which were put to cover, ignoring offers of forgiveness,
which made them an official Cotabamba troops, whom they responded
with fury, once wanted to die than be pardoned. inflame the troops
of this barbarous resolution, attacked with the greatest ardor, and
they were giving to the crest of the mountain where it was considered
impossible to escape from the hands of his enemies chose many threw
himself a desperate game, dropping from a height of more than 200
yards to shatter before surrender, and the remaining asylum sought
by the concave of the rocks, where they made the last efforts for
the defense, without making the slightest appreciation of the several
voices shouted our soldiers, again offering forgiveness, pitying the
situation in they were sitting.

But nothing was enough to diminish that ferocity, and it was necessary that some of us with obvious
peril of their lives to seek, to get them out of the deep caves in which she had been, where left
to pieces, rather than surrender: and there was rebel, who won the
third of the rifle to the soldier being chased, wrestled with intent to cast
him down headlong boldly, and they have been achieved by the rugged terrain,
if not promptly succor a fellow. Thus the defense followed up killing
all those who had the temerity to undertake it: which fact will be
very doubtful, to those who by the distance or by the wrong concept that
had been so far the Indians of Peru, can not make a full view of the
value that despised their lives, to sustain such a terrible sedition.
It was already approaching the army to the vicinity of the town of
Puno, and to have some positive news of his situation, determined the
Commanding General dispatched an express to D. Joaquin Antonio de
Orellana, who commanded in it, among other precautions, he said, was
to diligently his assistance with powerful forces, and to forward
the news of the state in which he was the town of Juliaca.

But then came the march in it, and did not find the answer, which
did not get up at night, when he was already camped six leagues away,
where he became an officer of the garrison of that town, with your
response Commander, who participated still be besieged by 12,000 Indians,
who followed the banners of Tupac Katari, who fought them with great
tenacity, and that his troops were exhausted by the repeated assaults
they had suffered and rejected.

That had feared moments die with all their soldiers and settlers, at the hands of the besiegers,
because they had made efforts to render them by force or by hunger: but they
had given a new breath, and had the greatest comfort from the news
of the proximity of the troops King, manifesting course with the demonstration
of giving appropriate thanks to the Almighty, for they did not expect
happiness, announced to the rebels with a peal of bells and repeated
volleys of artillery and light fittings. But these, far from feeling
that accident, new taxes by an Indian deserter, had done the same
demonstrations of joy, with their boxes, horns and repeated clamor,
shouting to the besieged, that the king's army who had just arrived,
and came commanded by Inspector General of these kingdoms, D. José
Antonio Areche, was in his favor to punish them for the many Indians
who had died, and then verify that José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru had acted
under orders of his Majesty, whose expressions were only the effect
of political savvy that The leader Tupac Katari and his captains had
seduced and cheated. made the mood to spend that night General two
leagues from Puno, to appear before their eyes the next day very early,
and having enough time for the operation that would be appropriate
practice, and take steps as may be necessary: but at two o'clock in
the afternoon he had notice that the rebels had again assaulted with
intent to pass the sword all his defenders, rather than waiting to
receive the relief.

Aceleróse the underway, and at 4 pm found the army in front of the
town, and watched as he had been credited General informed.



"FOR SALE.--A likely Mulatto Negress, aged twenty-two years,--she is a first-rate cook, and
a good washer and ironer, besides being a tolerable good seamstress.

"ANDERSON & BURNET,

"38, Camp-street."

"J26."

"SLAVES FOR SALE.--I have just received, and offer for sale, a very likely lot of Virginia
Negroes. Those wishing to purchase will do well to give me a call at my office, No. 157, Gravier-street,
between Carondelet and Baronne streets. I will be constantly receiving Negroes from Virginia
and North Carolina during the winter.

"C. M. RUTHERFORD."

"n13--6m."

"SLAVES FOR SALE.--No. 165, Gravier-street.--The subscriber has always on hand a number of
Slaves, consisting of House Servants, Field Hands, and Mechanics, which will be sold low for
cash or negotiable paper. Persons desirous of purchasing will find it to their interest to
call and examine. The subscriber will also receive and sell on consignment any Negro that may
be intrusted to his care.

"He would also respectfully notify persons engaged in the Slave Trade, that he is prepared
to board them and their Slaves on the most reasonable terms.

"WM. H. MERRITT."

"o1--6m."

"References--J.A. Barelli, C.J. Mansoni."

"ONE HUNDRED NEGROES.--For Sale at No. 13, Moreau-street.--All of which have just been received
from Maryland and Virginia. My old friends, and others wishing to purchase Slaves, will find
it to their interest to call on me before purchasing elsewhere. Also will receive large shipments
during the season from the above States.

"R. R. BEASLEY,

"13, Moreau-street."

"d31--3m."

Runaway slaves seem to be constantly advertised, with (as in the case of ship advertisements)
a small woodcut figure representing them in the very act of making their escape. Indeed, almost
everything advertised is accompanied by its picture,--ships, houses, bonnets, boots, leeches,
oysters, and so forth. Even a strayed horse or a strayed cow is advertised with a picture representing
the animal in the very act of going astray. On the same principle, and in like manner, human
chattels assuming their natural right to go where they please, are advertised with a woodcut
representing them as bending forward in the act of running, and carrying with them a small
bundle containing their scanty wardrobe,--a pitiable figure! And yet this is done, not to awaken
sympathy, but to excite vigilance, as in the following instances, which I have picked out of
the Picayune:--

"ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS REWARD.--The aforesaid sum will be given to any person who will bring
back to the undersigned the negro-girl Eugenia, and her mulatto child aged two years. Said
slave has been purloined or enticed away by her former owner, Madame Widow Decaux, who secretly
went out of this State on the 12th December, 1846. Said Widow Decaux is well known in New Orleans
as a notorious swindler, having been prosecuted for having pawned logs of wood to a merchant
of this city instead of dry goods. She has a scar on her forehead, and several others on her
neck, and is accompanied by her aged mother, and her boy aged ten years.

"J. B. DUPEIRE."

"j7--15t*."

"Ran away from the subscriber, on the 20th November last, a negro man named Sandy, about twenty-five
years of age, five feet five inches high, very dark complexion, speaks both French and English,
shows the mark of the whip very much. A liberal reward will be paid for his apprehension, either
by confining in any gaol, so that I can secure him, or his delivery to me at Plaquemine, La.

"W. H. CARR."

"J20--3tW."

And yet the editor of this very paper, in his leading article, reviewing the past, (that day
being the tenth anniversary of its own existence,) coolly says, "In entering upon our eleventh
anniversary, how different the spectacle! Industry in every quarter of the land receives its
meet reward; Commerce is remunerated by wholesome gains; Comfort blesses the toil of the labourer(!)
and Hope encourages the enterprise of all the industrial classes of our citizens."

As the day advanced, my fever returned; and I was obliged to go below. A furious tempest arose,
so that even our "monster" could scarcely get along. The lightning flashed, the thunder roared,
and the rain fell in torrents. It was a terrific day! As night approached, our captain told
us the vessel could not then be got any further,--it was about two miles from the city; and
if we particularly wished to go ashore, we must get ready directly, and go with him in the
steam-tug. Anxious for a good night's rest, on shore we resolved to go. I had to turn out in
that state of profuse perspiration which always succeeds the fever, and my wife hurriedly selected
a few necessary things. Poor thing! she was almost overwhelmed with the trying circumstances
in which she was placed,--thousands of miles from home--about to enter a place in which she
knew not a single soul--her husband ill, and herself an invalid! Proceed as if you dwell in Paris
at least for some time. To you to tell you goodbye or au revoir.

"*
* * That farewell trivial, a perfect dry, I caused the effect of
a collapse.

Then came the anger to despair. And perhaps the anger was what saved me. She gave me the energy
to react and adopt an extreme party. That same day I wrote two or three letters saying as I left
Paris. I moved home, went to hide in a neighborhood away, I called to my rescue what was left of
reason, intelligence and love of good, and returned to start a new probationary period did not
know, but in any case should be the last. XVI This change came in
the overnight and it was radical. It was not the moment of hesitation
and cool. He had a horror of half measures.

I liked the fight.

Superabundaba energy in me. Rejected in part, I needed my will turn
in another sense, to find a new obstacle to overcome in a few hours,
so to speak, and jump on him.

The weather made me forever. Beyond any question of time I felt, if not older, at least very mature.
I was not a teenager who stabs the least regret, all sore on the soft slopes of youth. It was a proud
man, impatient, wounded, spurred by desires and sorrows, which fell suddenly to the best of his
life - as a soldier at noon on the decisive day, - with hearts full of wrongs, the soul embittered
by the impotence, brain exploding project. I did not set foot in the world, to least in that part of the
society in which risked notice and find me memories that I had been tempted. I locked myself
not too narrow because it had drowned, but I was confined in a circle of active men, scholars, special,
lost, enemies of chimeras, which were dedicated to science, scholarship, or naive art as that which
created Florentín perspective and at night his wife woke up and said:
"How sweet is the perspective!" distrusted the wanderings of the imagination
and put in order.

As for my nerves, I'd care so voluptuously until then, were punished in the most rude contempt for everything
that is sick and the firm purpose of estimating not only what is strong and healthy. Clear the
moon on the banks of the Seine, the sun sweet dreams at the window, walks under the trees, discomfort
or welfare caused by a sunbeam or a drop of rain, the roughness of the genius that caused me
Live a little air and good thoughts that inspired me the absence of wind, all that softness of heart,
that slavery of the mind, those feelings were considered exorbitant and the examination was decreed that they
were unworthy of a man, and broke all those icebergs I wrapped in tissue influences and weaknesses.
It was a very active life. He read widely. I wasted, I economized. Feeling a sacrifice repellent
was combined with the attraction of a duty that had to fill about
myself.

This got some satisfaction that it was dark joy, much less full, but that much resembled what should
be the proud pleasure of a monastic vow well done. There was nothing childish deemed that
a reform which had caused such a serious and could have a serious
result. I did my reading what I had done a thousand other things, considering
them important food of my spirit, the expurgated. He no longer felt the
need for clarification in matters of the heart. It was not worth moving
to recognize me in books when he was fleeing from myself. I had to find
better or worse, if better, the election was unnecessary and, if
worse, was an example that should not be searched.

I was, so to speak, a kind of healthy collection between what the human talent left over invigorating,
pure, from the moral point of view, more exemplary in terms of reasoning.
 What a sight! and what a
smell! Who can realize the vast idea of 200 mouths, in one room, pouring forth the fumes of
tobacco? I was directed to the high-priest of the establishment in the "office," or (as I should
say) at the "bar." Without verbally replying to my application, he handed me a book in which
to record my name. Having obeyed the hint, I again asked my taciturn host if myself and wife
could be accommodated. He then, with manifest reluctance, took the cigar out of his mouth,
and said he had only one room to spare, and that was at the top of the house. It was "Hobson's
choice," and I accepted it. And now for a journey! Talk of ascending the Monument on Fish-street
Hill! what is that compared to ascending the St. Charles's, at New Orleans? No. 181 was reached
at last. The next task was to find my wife, which after another long and circuitous journey
was accomplished. In process of time fire was made, and "tea for two" brought up. Let me, therefore,
close my letter and enjoy it.

From No. 181 of the "St. Charles's," we descended, after a good night's rest, to see some of
the lions of the place. Here we are (thought I) in New Orleans--the metropolis of a great slave
country,--a town in which exist many depôts for the disposal of human beings,--the very city
where, a few months ago, poor Pauline was sacrificed as the victim of lust and cruelty! Unhappy
girl! What a tragedy! On the 1st of August last, I told the horrid tale to my emancipated people
in Berbice. Here it is, as extracted from the Essex (United States) Transcript. Read it, if
you please; and then you will have a notion of the feelings with which I contemplated a city
rendered infamous by such a transaction.

"Many of our readers have probably seen a paragraph stating that a young slave girl was recently
hanged at New Orleans for the crime of striking and abusing her mistress. The religious press
of the north has not, so far as we are aware, made any comments upon this execution. XLII Don Paco spent several times that day by the door of the house
of Juanita, but dared not enter it before the appointed time.

Although he saw Juanita declined to call or talk, perhaps for fear of inadvertently reveal things
wanted to be silent.

Until four in the afternoon was without leaving home, sewing with greater confidence. Rafaela He called
and said - Hey, Rafaela: I moved out of view.

Your reasons have convinced me. Tonight receive to Don Andres. You
are advised, and I think will not fail.

Estate to
see you, open it, if possible, before I call and tell him to climb
to the upper room, where I wait.

You do not walk up or will come, whatever happens. Until you make my mother has to look as if there were
nobody in this house, but me and Mr Andrew. Do you understand? - I understand you and will do as
you say - Rafaela said. He then went to spend the afternoon Juanita Dona Ines, as was his custom.
With great devotion and serenity to her godmother read quite a few own devotions and prayers of
Holy Week, when they were.

He wanted to immediately prepare and Dona Ines indoctrinate Juanita
for Monji, and dipping into the works of Padre Juan de Avila, whom
she was very fond, he read, with comments and annotations of his own,
paragraphs and even whole chapters of edifying the said treaty father
wrote to a nun, widely esplanade those words of the holy king David,
saying: "Hear, O daughter, and incline your ear and forget your people
and the house of your mother - here mother Dona Ines put rather than
father to come better story - and the king will covet your beauty.

"Of course, that this king was Christ who wanted Juanita Dona Ines
dismissed.

Extremely Dona Ines commended and praised the high thoughts of Juanita, but added that, despite
these lofty thoughts, his soul could spring up in ugly imaginations,
whose importunities and threats should be defended.

Conceit and pride are bad, very angry at the sky and may cause the sky to punish us, to humiliate
or to taste better, allow the enemies of the soul give fierce attacks on the floor, while its
share is believed very high point less than glorified and intimate conversations and in close union
with the divine. So Moses, for example of this was at the top of Mount Sinai conversing with the
Almighty, and commoners, meanwhile, ruffled down there, and began to worship idols and gave frivolities
and stupidity. Given of which Juanita Ines advised that mistrusts its vigor and not judged most
profitable and secure their power over the populace seditious nor
very advanced in the way of perfection, then follow the road though,
it could be ambushed near him and meet him robbers, who tried to steal
the jewel of chastity.

For
the custody of this jewel, the more that the strength, importance of modesty and the constant care.
We should not dismiss the fear of losing it, and should run away from danger, because he who loves
danger perishes in it.

As Dona Ines was very eloquent and the aforementioned points are provided to multiple amplifiers,
Dona Ines's speech, interrupted at intervals by Juanita, rather than to shorten it for revival,
lasted until after seven, which was what Juanita wanted. Near the hour and Don Andres had
quoted, Juanita considered essential to her friend very serious revelations. - I have listened
with due attention - she said - everything you just told me and I confess I am troubled and frightened.
- And what is the cause, my dear, your tribulation and your fright? - Well ..., out of shame ... unto
thee, who art my guide, I must confess everything. Your advice and warnings come too late today.
The conceit and arrogance have taken over me and made me perhaps deadly sin. - And how is that?
- Interrupted Dona Ines, surprised and startled. - I'll tell you the truth - said Juanita
-. I did not want to flee from danger, but look and face to succeed him. I did not want to even
consider and I despised danger.

It's more the constant threat foolish and made me lose patience, and myself,
to get it over, I called, cited and summoned to a duel the enemy,
which I have already fried and tired of hearing his bluster and provocation.
- I do not understand, explain well.

 Led by a board having on it in
large letters the words "Private Boarding," we "inquired within," found what we wanted, and
engaged for eight dollars per week each. We then went to pay our bill at the "St. Charles's,"
and to bring away our carpet-bag. We had been there two nights, had had one dinner, two teas,
and two breakfasts. These meals, as we did not like to join the hundreds at the "ordinary,"
were served to us (in a very ordinary way however) in our bedroom. In fact, the waiting was
miserably done. And yet for this we had the pleasure of paying eleven dollars,--say £2. 6s.!
We gladly bade adieu to the "St. Charles's." It suited neither our taste nor our pocket. Nevertheless,
it is a magnificent concern. The edifice was finished in 1838 by a company, and cost 600,000
dollars. The gentlemen's dining-room is 129 feet by 50, and is 22 feet high; having four ranges
of tables, capable of accommodating 500 persons. The ladies' dining-room is 52 feet by 36.
The house contains 350 rooms, furnishing accommodation for between 600 and 700 guests; and
it was quite full when we were there. The front is adorned with a projecting portico, supported
by six fine Corinthian columns, resting upon a rustic basement. The edifice is crowned with
a large dome, forty-six feet in diameter, having a beautiful Corinthian turret on the top.
This dome is the most conspicuous object in the city. Viewed from a distance, it seems to stand
in the same relation to New Orleans as St. Paul's to London. The furniture of this immense
establishment cost 150,000 dollars. A steam-engine, producing a very disagreeable tremor, is
constantly at work in the culinary department.

While on our way to get the remainder of our baggage from the ship, we came upon a street in
which a long row, or rather several rows, of black and coloured people were exposed in the
open air (and under a smiling sun) for sale! Wherever the same style stone buildings of pure, so
simple that the walls of the houses do not usually have a mortar that, they support the poise
and the carving of the stone. Wherever customs also candies, almost patriarchal, next to the industrial
and agricultural activity. Mondragon, a town of 2,500 residents, is one of the most interesting
people traffic.

From that crosses the mountains there is a little different river system, which tends toward the Gulf
of Gascony, having as main features the beautiful rivers called Deva, Arga Bolivar, etc. Then
tap via Vergara (famous for the agreement that ended the civil war) and ten villages more or less
importance, with a total of 7,900 inhabitants, and the coach stopped in the town of Tolosa, which
has 7.639 .

Tolosa, in the past capital of the province of Guipúzcoa, is situated on the banks of the rivers
Oria and Arago. The regularity of his nine straight streets that cross, enclosed within the
walls, the whim of its ten outer boroughs, the joy of the valley, crossed by numerous streams
and thick with fruit trees and vegetables and the importance of its factories and some public buildings,
give it a pleasing appearance. Toulouse is the fourth largest Basque city, for its population
and social conditions.

From Toulouse to San Sebastian, a distance of 23 kilometers, the track played in three villages
(with 2.886 inhabitants) situated on the banks of gracefully Oria, small river caracolea to
the bottom of fresh and smiling valleys, between the slopes of many hills, where the many neat villages,
forests of the mountains and the careful cultivation of the fields produce a range of landscapes,
each more picturesque and varied.

Al After you exit, the valley promenade of San Sebastian, a city noted for its baths, its fortifications and
especially for the very curious formation surrounding basin. Delay on a peninsula at the foot
of a high cliff which closes on one side the little lake shipping (instead of the famous baths) where
the river empties Urumea, bathing the valley of Loyola, and St. Sebastian. This beautiful city
capital of the province of Guipúzcoa, has about 16,000 inhabitants and is a regular singular
account of his modern reconstruction, it was destroyed by Hispano-British troops in 1813 in
the war against Napoleon. Square commercial animation enough, is distinguished by its appearance
of elegance and taste, and her she seeks beautiful views over the
Pyrenees, the Valley of Loyola and the Ocean. Soon the road playing
in the town of Renteria goes on among mountains , at some distance
from Hondarribia (2.134 neighboring small town, famous in military
history of Spain), located towards the mouth of the Bidasoa, leading
to the town of Irun (of more than 5,500 inhabitants), the last village
of the Spanish territory.

There passports come to light and receive a note that it costs five francs to the traveler, subject
to registration and rights to cross the border. The meek and crystalline Bidasoa run by a beautiful
valley, carrying a large amount of wood produced Navarra. Naturally struck by the Isle of Pheasants
on the sole fact of having been the scene of the famous treatise of Don Luis de Haro, which in
1689 put an end to the war of succession and gave rise to the advent of the Bourbons in Spain.
The center of a long bridge over the river is in that part of the border. It is somewhat curious
social scene there is, as in all the borders of Europe, which proves
the folly of selfishness of governments bent on making artificial
relations of peoples, replacing the inquisitorial suspicion to the
spontaneity of interest.

The bridge looks like a symbol of union between the two nations, but the pickets of soldiers,
guards and gendarmes stationed at both ends, like staring at one another and represent the selfish
mistrust of each government, I found living protests against natural
and social idea represented by the mute stone bridge.

The stone was more fraternal than men. Dominated by that impression, I went to France with sadness,
leaving a sigh do fraternal affection to the land of my ancestors, a time conquering enemy of mine,
but today something reconciled with this by the lapse of time and the influence of civilization.
As he crossed the Bidasoa diligence, employees of the French customs northernmost constipated awaited
us at the bridge.
 But the floor--the floor! What a drawback! It was stained
all over with tobacco juice! Faugh! Those Southern men are the most filthy people in that respect
I ever met with. They are a great "spitting" community. To make it still more revolting to
luckless travellers, this nasty habit is generally attended with noises in the throat resembling
the united growling of a dozen mastiffs.

While the congregation was assembling, a greyheaded, aristocratic-looking old negro came up
into the gallery, walked along "as one having authority," and placed himself in a front pew
on the right-hand side of the pulpit. Two black women shortly followed, taking their seats
in the same region. Others succeeded, till ultimately there were from forty to fifty of the
sable race in that part of the gallery. Not one white was to be seen among the blacks, nor
one black among the whites. There, then, was the "Negro Pew!" It was the first time even my
West India eyes ever beheld a distinction of colour maintained in the house of God!

At eleven o'clock precisely, a man of tall but stooping figure and dark complexion, about forty
years of age, muffled up in a cloak, took his stand at the bottom of the pulpit or platform
stairs. It was Dr. S----. He appeared to beckon to some one in the congregation. A tall, lank
old gentleman, with a black cravat, and shirt-collar turned over it à l'Américain, stepped
forward, and, ascending the steps before the Doctor, occupied one of the two chairs with which
the rostrum was furnished, the Doctor taking the other. I supposed him to be one of the elders,
going to give out the hymns, or to assist in the devotional exercises. At this moment the organ--a
fine-toned instrument--struck up, and the choir sang some piece--known, I presume, only to
themselves, for no others joined in it. This prelude I have since found is universal in America.
In all places of worship provided with an organ, a "voluntary" on that instrument is the first
exercise. In the present instance the choir had no sooner ceased than the Doctor stood up,
having his cloak still resting upon his shoulders, and stretched forth his right hand. At this
signal all the people stood up, and he offered a short prayer. "Where is Abel, thy brother?"
thought I, during this address to the Father of the spirits of all flesh. He then read the
23rd and 24th Psalms. "Where is Abel, thy brother?" was still ringing in my ears. The 33rd
Psalm was then sung. "Where is Abel, thy brother?" was still heard (by me at least) louder
than the swelling tones of the organ. The singing done, of which the choir still had an entire
monopoly, the Doctor read the 14th chapter of Mark; and as he read the awful story of our Lord's
betrayal, I could not help thinking that the only difference between some of the Southern slave-dealers
and Judas was, that had they been in his place, they would have made a "smarter" bargain. The
reading, though free from affectation, was not by any means in the best style. The chapter
finished, the tall elder (as I took him to be) prayed,--the congregation standing. The prayer
was short and appropriate, and the language tolerably correct; but the tone and pronunciation
were queer. I supposed them to indicate some provincialism with which I was not acquainted.
Along with that peculiar nasal sound for which nearly all Americans are distinguished, there
was in the voice a mixture of coaxing and familiarity which was a little offensive; still,
as a "layman's" exercise, it was very good. He prayed for "every grace and Christian virtue."
Amen, ejaculated I,--then your slaves will soon be free. He prayed for "our nation and rulers."
He prayed that "the great blessings of Civil and Religious Liberty which we enjoy may be handed
down to future generations." "Looking out for a few niggers this morning?" thought I. He also
prayed for "the army and navy, and our fellow-citizens now on the field of battle," in allusion
to the Mexican War.--The prayer ended, Dr. S---- gave out another hymn. During the whole of
the service, I may here remark, there was a good deal of going in and out, talking, whispering,
spitting, guttural turbulence, &c. At first there were about a dozen white boys in my neighbourhood,
who seemed as if they belonged to the Sabbath-school; but, having no teacher to look after
them, and enjoying the full swing of liberty, they had before sermon all disappeared.

After the singing, Dr. S---- made several announcements,--amongst others, that the monthly
concert to pray for the success of Foreign Missions would be held there to-morrow evening,
when several speakers would address the meeting. By all means (said I to myself), and I'll
try to be present. He also told his people that the Rev. ----. ------, (from some place in
Kentucky,--the particulars I did not catch,) was in the city, as a deputation from the ladies,
to solicit subscriptions for the erection of a new church that was greatly needed.

The tall man in the black neckcloth then rose, and, to my surprise and disappointment, read
a text. It was I Cor. iii. 21: "For all things are yours." I imagine he was the deputation
from the Kentuckian ladies.

After a few introductory remarks explanatory of the context, he proposed to inquire what are
the things which "enter into" ("constitute," we should say) the inheritance of God's people.
Slaves (said I to myself) are a part of the inheritance of "God's people," both here and in
Kentucky: I wonder if he will notice that.

The first thing, I observe (said he), that enters into the inheritance of God's people, is
the living ministry--"Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas." To illustrate the value of this blessing,
he referred to the imaginary Elixir of Life, the Philosopher's Stone, and the Universal Panacea.
If such things really existed, what a high value would men set upon them! But here was something
of incomparably higher worth. In order to form an estimate of its value, he led his hearers
to imagine the entire loss of the living ministry. Secondly, the "world" belongs to God's people.
It is sustained for their sake, and therefore sinners are indebted to God's people for the
preservation of their lives. To prove this he referred to the words of our Lord, "Ye are the
salt of the earth." In speaking of the preserving nature of salt, he supposed the sea to be
without salt.

How pestilential then! But as it is, how salubrious the air that has swept over it! He also
referred to another case. There was once (said he) a ship in a tremendous storm; the crew and
passengers--about 270 in number--were at their wits' end; nothing appeared before them but
a watery grave. On board of that ship was a poor prisoner, bound in chains. He was deemed to
be of the filth of the world, and the off-scouring of all things. To that poor prisoner the
angel of the Lord came, and told him what must be done to save the life of every one on board.
The angel's directions were obeyed, and all were preserved. Thus, for the sake of one of God's
people, were 270 lives spared. He offered another illustration. Three men came to converse
with Abraham, on the plains of Mamre. They told him that God was about to destroy five cities.
Abraham began to intercede for them. The preacher recapitulated the wondrous story of this
intercession and its success, as further proving that ungodly men owe the preservation of their
lives to the presence and prayers of the people of God. The parable of the tares was also cited,
as illustrating the same position. "Let both grow together until the harvest." Imagine (said
he) all the people of God removed from the face of the earth--no heart to love Him--no tongue
to praise Him,--there would be no reason why the earth should be continued in existence another
moment. In the light of this subject, see how great a privilege it is to have pious relatives.
"Life" also was, in the third place, a part of the inheritance of the child of God, because
during it he makes a provision for eternity. He dwelt on the richness of the treasure which
God's people are laying up. Suppose (said he) any of you were making money at the rate of fifty
dollars an hour,--(I dare say you do so sometimes, reflected I, when you get a good price for
your "niggers,")--how rich you would soon be! and how anxious that not a single hour should
be lost! But the child of God is laying up treasure at a faster rate than this. The moral value
of the dictates of reason depends on conformity with the eternal law, when they found the moral
order to check it first hand, speak of a participation of the second, then do not have with this
two resolutions question, but one.

The acts can not be pleasant or unpleasant to God, but as they conform to the eternal law, then
the judge the goodness or evil of acts by their relationship to the pleasure or displeasure
of God, is judging its conformity to the eternal law.

Infiérese from the above that act according to reason, according to the eternal law, or pleasing to God,
but express different aspects of an idea, do not mean anything different, as we try to explain
the foundations the moral order.

[207.] The requirements of the eternal law, not dependent on the free will of God, for then it
would follow that God could make good evil and evil good. The eternal law, there can be other
than eternal reason, or rather the representation of the moral order in the divine understanding. In
this case, morality seems, according to our way of thinking, which precedes its representation, that is, that
morality is represented in the divine mind, because she is, but not because it represented. In the moral order
we arrive at a case similar to the metaphysical and geometric essences. Eg geometrical truths are
eternal as represented in the eternal reason, and this representation is an intrinsic truth in
themselves, and absolutely necessary, since otherwise the representation would be false. But inasmuch as
this truth is to have some eternal foundation (Lib. IV, Cap. ^ S XXIV, XXV, XXVI and XXVII), and
this is not in finite beings, has been searching the infinite in essence, where the reason for
everything. Their understanding represents the truth, and therefore it is true, but the same
truth is founded on the essence of the infinite being that knows it. [208.] The moral truths
are not known at this point of metaphysics, its origin is in God,
morality can not be atheist.

Why in God represent some things as good and others as bad? find the reason for this is to ask
why the triangles are not rendered circular and triangular circles. If there is an intrinsic
need, or we can not point out the reason for it, or in any case we arrive at a reason that
can not be explained by another reason. Always will be stopping at a point where we say: yes,
and nothing more. The further satisfaction in that case we might wish, we can not reach it, not to see
intuitively the infinite essence which is the first and last reason of all . [209.] To be represented
things as good or bad, and even to conceive represented as such, it is necessary to involve them
kindness or malice. What is to be a good thing? if we say that is being
portrayed as good in the divine understanding, we enter into the
definition defined the same thing: there is always the difficulty:
what is being depicted as good?

The goodness can not be a simple representation, so that everything is good which is represented in
God, because then it would follow that everything is good because
everything is represented in God.

Then for a thing is good, not only be represented, but given under this or that character, that
constitutes good, in which case, we find even standing all the difficulty: what is this character?
[210.] clarify ideas by comparing a metaphysical truth with moral
truth.

All the diameters of the same circle are equal, this truth does not
depend on any particular circle, is based in the very essence of the
circle, and this in turn, with all their properties and relationships,
is represented from all eternity in the infinite essence, where the
fullness of being, is the representation and understanding of all
the shares that can be finite in practice the infinite wisdom and
omnipotence.

All entries are subject to the principle of contradiction, in none of them can be verified that being to stop
and not exclude each other, hence the need derives all the properties and relationships, without
which there exists the principle of contradiction: among these is
the equality of all diameters of the circle.

[211 .] These considerations suggest the question: Is it possible to explain the moral order, just as
the metaphysical and the mathematical statements contained in the principle of contradiction? [212.]
It is easy to see that all metaphysical truths and mathematics express refuses or identity. A is B, or A is
not B, to reduce this all possible propositions, this is the general
formula of all the truths of an absolute order. Otherwise happens in the moral
order, which never expresses absolutely nothing, as indicated by
the same form of moral propositions.

God is good. What this expresses a metaphysical truth. God must be loved, or in other words, has to
love God. Here is expressed a moral truth. Note the difference: in one case it says is, absolutely,
in the other, must be, ha, we are obliged to, using different expressions
that all mean the same thing, but in all of them being gone, and absolute
affirmation.

Apparently no moral proposition can be expressed in this way, attending to the primitive elements
of our moral ideas, because in all these propositions implies the
idea of duty, which is essentially a relative idea.

[213.]
To love God is good . This is a moral proposition whose structure seems to contradict what I have
set. Here is an absolute affirmation is simply expressed, as in math or metaphysical propositions.
However, little reflection, they will see that this absolute character disappears, if one
listens to the nature of the predicate. What is good? here we are essentially on an idea, which
communicate the same character to the proposition which was presented as absolute. The loving God
is good, means: the loving God is one thing according to reason or to the eternal law, or pleasing to
God, or something to which we are obliged, always a relative idea, never an absolute idea how
are you other: to be, not, triangle, circle and so on. etc. [214.] Well, some say, is what leads
to the end which corresponds to be smart. This explanation should not be confused with private
interest theory, theory rejected by religion, by the feelings of the heart, and opposed by the deepest thinkers,
here to talk about so this is a final end, superior to what is often
meant by the expression: private interest.

No doubt the reach the ultimate end is a big interest of being smart, but at least this interest
is taken in a grand sense, it does not encourage the development of a petty selfishness. recognized
this difference between the two doctrines, the latter not say that I accept. Moral goodness
is to be leading in the end, but this is not the nature of morality. Indeed, what is meant by purpose?
if you understand the same God, moral act is the act that leads to God, in which case the difficulty
remains standing, then we need to know, what is meant for driving. If happiness is the result,
which is union with God, how is due to this happiness? Fulfilling what God has commanded - True, but then
ask: 1. º why the do what God has commanded, leads to happiness, 2. º why God has sent a few things,
and prohibited other, which equivalent to raise again the question
of intrinsic morality.

[215.] Moreover, the idea of happiness gives us something very different from that of morality.
Imagining a being who sacrificed all her happiness by others, we have the idea of a highly moral, and
yet unhappy. If morality to consist in the happiness, the participation of happiness would be the
participation of morality, all would enjoy a moral act, and could only be immoral, not quite alive
or quite durable.

As we rise to the idea a more lasting enjoyment and live, we form the idea of a higher morality,
the more free enjoyment of disgust, would be the purest act of morality:
and who does not see that this upsets our moral ideas, and repugnant
to our feelings ?

[216.] It
suffices to say that a moral happiness and that happiness will be greater, the greater has been
their morality, that only proves that happiness is the reward of
virtue, but that does not allow to confound with this, the reward
to merit.

[217.] The confusing morality with happiness, morality is reduced to a combination of calculation, is
to strip the virtue of pure brilliance that attracts and delights us and makes us seem so much
more beautiful, the more united you are suffering. If we identify happiness with morality, selflessness
is a calculation of interest, a sacrifice of less interest to a greater interest, a loss in
the present, to win in the future. No, the morality of actions is not a calculation business:
the virtuoso achieves award, may also want this award, but for the act to be virtuous, you need something
more than the combination to reach you, We need to find something
to make the act worthy of the prize, and not even conceive issues
that may be reserved for the prize to any act, but because in itself
is praiseworthy.

When God has prepared punishment for some acts and other awards, has had to find in them an intrinsic
difference, and this has identified different targets, but according to the system we are fighting,
the acts would not be good but as leading to the award, and there would be no reason why he
conducted to each preference to others. The reason is to be found
in an intrinsic difference of the same, if not wish to fall into the
absurdity that all the actions in themselves are indifferent , and
that bad could be good, and good evil.

[218.] To be conducive to the good of humanity is another incomplete nature of the morality of
actions. Since then jumps to the eye, that this morality, it would be only human and therefore
not understand the intrinsic morality, which we consider common to
all intelligent beings.

[219.] Furthermore, what good is it? what state is considered to humanity? "There is talk of
a company incorporated in nation, or of humanity itself, from one generation or many, of his
destiny on earth or in the future of the afterlife?

Will talks about his welfare, or of their development and improvement regardless of their more or
less good? If morality of the actions taken by their conduciveness, so to speak, to the general
good of mankind, what is the highest good? Is the development of intelligence, is the imagination
or the heart, is the useful arts that provide material pleasures? Not
as a term can then put moral perfection, since by the assumption, half
serious morality and actions would be the more moral, the media would
be more useful for achieving the greater good.

[220.] To say that morality is only the subject of feeling, and you can not point out another
good character, but that we feel in mysterious perfection of virtue
is to banish morality as a science, completely closing the door to
any inquiry. I do not deny that there is in us a moral sense and that
our heart harbors sympathy for the mysterious virtue, but I think with
this, is very compatible the scientific study of the foundations
of moral order.

We must recognize the primitive character of some facts of our spirit, not strive to want to explain
everything, but should beware of exaggeration, that this will be the more dangerous, as will be covered
with the mantle of modesty. CHAPTER XX. EXPLANATION FUNDAMENTAL the moral order. [. 221] The morality
must be absolute. It is not possible to conceive a relative thing
alone, without an absolute in the decision.

Furthermore, any relationship involves a term of reference, and therefore, even supposing a number of
references, it is necessary to reach the final term. This shows why not satisfy the understanding
explanations of morality purely relative: to reason and feeling,
all looking for something that could be fixed.

Besides this ontological argument for the absoluteness of morality, there are other more the
reach of ordinary men, not less conclusive. [222.] In the infinitely perfect conceive infinite
holiness, regardless of the existence of creatures, so what is the infinite holiness, but the
moral perfection in an infinite degree ?

  

The reason is crucial for everyone, except atheists who admits the existence of God must admit
holiness otherwise repugnant to reason, to the heart, to common sense. Then there is some absolute
morality, then morality itself can not be explained by any relationship of creatures to an end, therefore,
that the morality in an infinite degree, would exist even if there had been or ever had, any creature.
[ 223.] In designing an intelligent servant, also conceive of morality as an inflexible law that their
actions must conform. It is noteworthy that this morality conceive, even if an intelligent being
all alone: then morality can not be explained by the relationship of other creatures. Pretend a
man all alone on earth you can conceive "free of all morality? Is
it equally beautiful in the moral order which works to improve its understanding
and harmonious development of all its powers, or is abandoned to
the grossest instincts confused with gross stupidity and debasement?

Imagine that the ground disappears and the whole corporeal universe, and all created beings,
except a single intelligence: you can imagine this creature wholly exempt from all moral law? In
his thoughts, his actions do will, what is listed you can be completely indifferent, and that morality
is for them a meaningless word? It is impossible, unless we fight openly with our primitive ideas,
with our deepest feelings, with the common sense of humanity. Here, then, is another proof that
in an absolute moral order, an intrinsic perfection, independent of the mutual relations of creatures,
a beauty itself, in certain actions of the free and intelligent creature. [224.] Bear the action
offers another argument in confirmation of the same truth.

Morality is not measured not by the result, the purity of it can
be seen as immanent, that is, for reasons which have led to wish,
for the more or less deliberation that preceded the act of the will,
for the most or lower intensity of this act.

If ever the results are addressed to all moral value is attributed
to those born from within the soul: the foresight or foresight of
them, or the ability or inability to foresee, the having intended
or not, the proposed habérselos secondary or primary purpose, the
earnestly desired having or having braved the pain and disgust, these
and other similar considerations are present when trying to assess
and adjust the merit or demerit of an action that has had such and
such results.

From this it follows that these mean nothing in the moral order, but as they expressed in the act
of will.

[225.] This character of immanence, essential to moral acts, destroys their base all theories morality
based on outer joins, whatever they are, and demonstrates that the act of an intelligent and
free is good or bad in itself, quite apart from all consequences good or bad, one way or another have
not been contained in the internal act.

One man, an act whose consequences are not foreseen or could foresee, seriously harm the entire
human race would be innocent, and another with an intention damaged,
pronouncing a great benefit to humanity, serious an evil.

A man saves his country, a sense of vanity, or with a view of greed or ambition: saving their
action is not regarded as a virtuous act. Another, with the most disinterested and pure intention,
with the most ardent desire to save his homeland, undertakes for
an error, will lose this unfortunate no longer a virtuous man, the
same action disastrous results, is considered as an act of virtue.

[226.] What is it absolute morality? Where is the hidden spring which flows the stream of beauty
that we all feel, which is everywhere, beautiful all, this stream with the lack of which wither the world
of intelligence? I think at this point, as in many other , science has not quite noticed the remarkable
depth of Christian Religion, this has said it all with a word so soft, as full of meaning: Let
me call very particular love the attention of readers on the theory
I am about to unfold.

After many difficulties as we have piled up here, on the basis of the moral order, it is necessary that
we try to acquire some light on a subject so important. This light will confirm us more and more
a truth that science shows us again and again: when it comes to the principles of science,
or to their latest results, be sure that Christian ideas you will not be useless, and that you communicate
a lesson in transcendence, in the building of human knowledge will find illuminating the foundation
and dome. not the reader imagine that instead of a scientific theory, I will offer a chapter of mystical
am sure that at the end reading, he will be convinced that even from a purely scientific, in this
doctrine is much more accuracy and depth than other authors of which are kept using the word God,
as if the August name stain the pages of science. [227.] The absolute morality of God is love, all the ideas and moral sentiments
are applications and shares this love. Let's try taking this fruitful principle to all regions
of the moral world. What is God's absolute morality ? What is the attribute of infinite being
we call holiness? The love of self, of his infinite perfection. In God there is no duty itself,
there is absolute need to be holy, because it has absolute necessity of loving his infinite perfection.
So morality in its most absolute sense, in its highest degree, this is the infinite holiness,
is independent of free will.

God can not but be holy. [228.] But they wonder why God has to love himself? this question is
meaningless when it deepens on whatever matter, because it assumes that it can be expressed
exactly in relative terms it is entirely complete. The proposition: God has to love himself is not exact,
the exactness is only in this: God loves himself, because it expresses an absolute, an absolute
fact. If we start to question why God loves himself? answer that might as well ask: why God knows
himself, or why he understands the truth, or why it exists, in arriving at these issues we are in the original
source, with things absolute, unconditional, then all it is absurd. [229.] Infiérese of this doctrine
is not true that morality can not be expressed in an absolute proposition. It in itself, in its infinite
degree, is an absolute truth whose opposite involves an identity is contradictory, for they
regarded as the most high, is no less bound to the principle of contradiction, that all metaphysical
truth and geometric

.


The cheering at the close of this speech merged into barking as before. In this instance it
was Hunt!--Hunt!--Hunt! that they called for. The president (standing) showed them a sheet
of paper, containing probably a list of subscriptions, and smiled coaxingly to intimate that
he wished that to be read. But it would not do. Hunt!--Hunt!--Hunt! was still the cry; and
the democracy, as before, carried the day.

By this time the atmosphere of the room had become so poisoned with smoking that I could endure
it no longer. I had not only the general atmosphere to bear, but special puffs, right in my
face, accompanying the questions and remarks which, in that free meeting, of free citizens,
in a free country, were freely put to me by the free-and-easy gentlemen around. The meeting
resulted in the raising of 15,000 dollars for the relief of the Irish. The sum was handed by
the American Minister in London to Lord John Russell; and a note from his Lordship, acknowledging
the gift, has gone the round of the papers on both sides of the Atlantic. The subject of relief
to Ireland was subsequently, in many ways and places, brought under my notice; and while I
have been delighted in many instances with the display of pure and noble generosity, it was
too evident that much of what was done was done in a spirit of self-glorification over a humbled
and afflicted rival. It was a fine opportunity to feed the national vanity, and to deal hard
blows to England. Not that I was sorry to see those blows, or to feel them. They drew no blood,
and were a hundred times more efficacious than if they had. I felt that there was much in the
conduct of England towards her unhappy sister-isle for which she deserved the severest castigation.
But I must protest against the form of putting the case, which was very common throughout the
United States: "You are shocked at our slavery; and yet you have horrors of ten times greater
magnitude, in the Irish famine at your own doors." In this way the Irish famine, was a God-sent
sort of a salvo for the slave-holder's conscience, so soothing and grateful to his tortured
feelings that he was but too happy to pay for it by a contribution for the relief of Ireland.

In consequence of the following advertisement in the Picayune, I screwed up my feelings, and
resolved for once at least in my life to see a slave-auction. I was the more disposed to attend
this, as it was distinctly stated that they would be sold in families. I should not therefore
have to behold the wife torn away from the husband, the husband from the wife, the parent from
the child, or the child from the parent, as is so commonly done.

"COTTON-FIELD HANDS.--By Beard, Calhoun, and Co., auctioneers.--Will be sold at auction, on
Friday, the 5th inst., at 12 o'clock, at Bank's Arcade, thirty-seven Field Slaves; comprising
eighteen from one plantation, and fourteen from another. All acclimated Negroes. To be sold
in Families. Full particulars at sale."

"F. 4."

Setting off a few minutes before 12, after about half-a-dozen inquiries, and as many "guessing"
answers, I found "Bank's Arcade." It was very near the Presbyterian church, in which I had
heard such excellent sermons on the preceding Sabbath. It was a large open building: one side
occupied as a bar for the retail of strong drinks, and the other fitted up for auctioneering
purposes,--there being conveniences for three or four of the trade to exercise their vocation
at the same time. One end was used for the sale of books and other publications, chiefly novels;
and the other for the exhibition of fancy goods.

As I got in at one end, I heard a voice--with that peculiar, twirling, rapid, nasal twang,
which marks the Transatlantic auctioneer--say, "400 dollars for this fine young woman--only
400 dollars--420, only 420--430--440, only 440 dollars offered for this fine young woman."
By this time I had got in front of the performer, and had a full view of the whole affair.
And sure enough she was a "fine young woman," about twenty-three years of age, neatly dressed,
not quite----But the scene shall form the subject of my next letter.

Yes, she was a "fine young woman," about 23 years of age, neatly dressed, not black, but slightly
coloured. The auctioneer was a sleek-looking fellow, with a face that indicated frequent and
familiar intercourse with the brandy-bottle. He stood upon a platform, about four feet high.
Behind him was a table, at which a clerk sat to record the sales. High above was a semi-circular
board, on which were written in large letters "Beard, Calhoun, and Co." In front, standing
upon a chair, exposed to the gaze of a crowd of men, stood the "fine young woman." She had
an air of dignity even in that degrading position. Around were twenty or thirty more of the
sable race, waiting their turn.

"440 dollars only offered," continued the coarse and heartless auctioneer; "450, thank you;
460, 460 dollars only offered for this excellent young woman--470 only, 470--480, 480 dollars
only offered--490--500 dollars offered--going for 500 dollars--once, going for 500 dollars--503
dollars--going for 503 dollars--going--once --twice--gone for 503 dollars. She is yours, sir,"
pointing to the highest bidder. She stepped down, and disappeared in the custody of her new
proprietor.

A man and his wife, both black, were now put up. They were made to ascend the platform. "Now,
how much for this man and his wife? Who makes an offer? What say you for the pair? 550 dollars
offered--560 dollars only; 560 dollars," &c., &c., till some one bidding 600 dollars--he added,
"Really, gentlemen, it is throwing the people away--going for 600 dollars; going--once--twice--gone
for 600 dollars. They are yours, sir."

Jim, a blacksmith, about 30 years of age, was the next. He stood on the chair in front. "Now,
who bids for Jim? He is an excellent blacksmith; can work on a plantation, and make his own
tools; in fact, can turn his hand to anything. The title is good,"--(Is it, indeed? breathed
I,)--"and he is guaranteed free from all the vices and maladies provided against by law. Who
bids for him? 600 dollars bid for him --625 dollars--650 dollars," and so on to 780. "'Pon
my soul, gentlemen, this is throwing the man away; he is well worth 1,200 dollars of anybody's
money; 790 dollars only offered for him--going for 790 dollars;--going--once--twice--gone for
790 dollars."

The next "lot" was a family, consisting of the husband, a man slightly coloured, about 30 years
of age, the wife about 25, quite black, and reminding me forcibly of an excellent woman in
my own congregation, a little girl about 4 years of age, and a child in the arms. They were
told to mount the platform. As they obeyed, I was attracted by a little incident, which had
well nigh caused my feelings to betray me. Never shall I forget it. Parents of England, let
me tell it you, and enlist your sympathies on behalf of oppressed and outraged humanity. It
was that of a father helping up, by the hand, his own little girl to be exposed for sale. "Now,
who bids for this family? Title good--guaranteed free from the vices and maladies provided
against by law. The man is an excellent shoemaker--can turn his hand to anything,--and his
wife is a very good house-servant. Who bids for the lot? 500 dollars bid for them--600 dollars--only
600 dollars--700 dollars offered for them." But the price ultimately mounted up to 1,125 dollars.--"Going
for 1,125 dollars--once--twice--gone for 1,125 dollars."

The next was a black boy, 16 years of age. He mounted the chair, not the platform. "Now, gentlemen,
here is an excellent ploughboy. Who bids for him? Thank you,--400 dollars bid for him--425,"
and so on to 550 dollars. "Why, look at him; he is a powerful-limbed boy; he will make a very
large strong man." He was knocked down at 625 dollars.

"The next I have to put up, gentlemen, is a young piece of city goods--the girl Cornelia. She
is 18 years of age, a good washer and ironer, but not a very good cook. She is well known in
the city, and has always belonged to some of the best families." By this time Cornelia was
standing upon the chair. "Now, gentlemen, who bids for this girl? She is sold for no fault,
but simply for want of money. Who bids for this excellent washer and ironer?" At this moment
one of the "gentlemen," standing in front of her, deliberately took his walking-stick, and,
with the point of it, lifted up her clothes as high as the knee. I afterwards saw this same
man walking arm-in-arm with his white wife in the street. "500 dollars offered for her--530
dollars." She went for 580.

Here let me state, once for all, that I took notes on the spot. Those around me no doubt thought
I was deeply interested in the state of the slave-market, and wishful to convey the most accurate
information to my slave-breeding and soul-driving correspondents at a distance. Had my real
object and character been discovered, I gravely doubt whether I should have left that "great"
and "free" city alive!

The next "lot" were Jim, his wife, and two children, one about three, and the other about two
years of age,--all on the platform. They were said to be excellent cotton-field hands, title
good, and so forth; but, somehow, there were no bidders.

A boy about ten years of age, a fine intelligent-looking little fellow, was now made to mount
the chair. Who bids for him?" The bidding began, at 350 dollars, and ended at 425.

"I have now to put up the boy Edmund, thirty-two years of age, an excellent cotton-field hand.
Who bids for the boy Edmund?" At this moment a gentleman, who, like most of those present,
appeared to be a sort of speculator in slaves, stepped forward, and examined with his hands
the boy's legs, especially about the ankles, just as I have seen horse-dealers do with those
animals at fairs. There were, however, no bidders; and Edmund was put down again.

The next that mounted the chair was a shrewd-looking negro, about thirty-five years of age.
"Now, gentlemen, who bids for Tom? He is an excellent painter and glazier, and a good cook
besides; title good; sold for no fault, except that his owner had hired him at 25 dollars a
month, and Tom would not work. An excellent painter and glazier, and a good cook besides. His
only fault is that he has a great idea of his own reserved rights, to the neglect of those
of his master." This was said with a waggish kind of a leer, as if he thought he had said a
very smart thing in a very smart way. 300 dollars were first offered for him; but poor Tom
went for 350. "Now, sir," said the man-seller to Tom, with a malicious look, "you'll go into
the country." He was bought by one of the speculators, who no doubt would sell him again for
double the amount. Tom, as he descended from the chair, gave a look which seemed to say, "I
care not whither I go; but my own reserved rights shall not be forgotten!"

A girl of seventeen years of age, somewhat coloured, was the next put up. She was "an excellent
washer and getter-up of linen." She was also "a tolerably good cook." But there were no bidders;
and the auctioneer said, "Really, gentlemen, I have a great deal of business to do in my office:
I cannot lose any more time here, as you are not disposed to bid." And so ended the exhibition.

I was now at leisure to observe that a strange noise which I had heard for some time proceeded
from another auctioneer, engaged in the same line of business at the other end of the room.
As I approached, I saw him with a young coloured man of about twenty-two years of age, standing
on his left hand on the platform. What a sight! Two men standing together, and the one offering
the other for sale to the highest bidder! In the young man's appearance there was something
very good and interesting. He reminded me forcibly of an excellent young man of the same colour
in my own congregation. 430 dollars were offered for him; but, as he was a good carriage driver,
and worth a great deal more, only he had not had time to dress himself for the sale, being
industrious, sober, and no runaway (said with significant emphasis), the bidding ran up to
660 dollars. Here one of the bidders on the auctioneer's right hand asked him something aside;
to which he answered, loudly and emphatically, "Fully guaranteed in every respect;" and then
said to the young man, "Turn this way, and let the gentleman see you," He was sold for 665 dollars.

The next was a very modest-looking young mulatto girl, of small features and slender frame,
with a little child (apparently not more than a year old) in her arms, evidently the daughter
of a white man. "Now, who bids for Margaret and her child?" Margaret! my own dear mother's
name. "Margaret and her child!" What should I have been this day, if that Margaret "and her
child" Ebenezer had been so treated? Who can think of his own mother, and not drop a tear of
sympathy for this mother--so young, so interesting, and yet so degraded? "Now, gentlemen, who
bids for Margaret and her child? She is between sixteen and seventeen years of age, and is
six months gone in pregnancy of her second child: I mention the last circumstance, because
you would not think it to look at her,--it is right, however, that you should know. She cooks
well, sews well, washes well, and irons well. Only 545 dollars! Really, gentlemen, it's throwing
the girl away; she is well worth 800 dollars of any man's money. She'll no doubt be the mother
of a great many children; and that is a consideration to a purchaser who wants to raise a fine
young stock. Only 545 dollars offered for her!" No higher offer being made, she was sent down,--it
was no sale. Let us breathe again.

Finding that another slave-auction was to be held at noon next day in the St. Louis Exchange,
I resolved to attend. The day was dull and dirty. "Please, sir," said I to the first man I
met, "to tell me where St. Louis Exchange is?" "Don't know, sir." I walked on a little further,
and tried again. "Please to direct me to St. Louis Exchange?" "Can't; but it's somewhere in
that direction," pointing with his finger. "Is this the way to St. Louis Exchange?" I asked
a third. "I guess it is," was the curt and characteristic reply. "How far is it?" "Three blocks
further on; then turn to your right; go a little way down, and you will find it on your left."
I went as directed, and came to an immense building--a kind of hotel. There were nearly a dozen
entrances, all leading into one vast saloon, where I found about 200 gentlemen,--some drinking,
some eating, some smoking, some reading, some talking, and all spitting. One end of the saloon
was fitted up as a refreshment place, similar to those on railway stations in England. But
I could see nothing like preparations for a sale.

On looking around I perceived a large door in two halves, with spring hinges, leading as it
were further into the building. I pushed one half open, and found myself in a spacious circular
hall,--its roof, ending in a dome, supported by a suitable number of massive columns. The floor
was tastefully paved with black and white marble, and all the light came from the dome. Some
100 gentlemen were sauntering about, and now and then turning to several groupes of black people
to ask them questions. This place was evidently fitted up for auctioneering purposes, and seemed
peculiarly adapted for man-selling. At equal distances were a dozen elevated desks for the
chief actors, each with a small platform in front for the exhibition of the articles of sale.

It was a quarter to twelve, by the clock that faced the entrance door, when I got in. Anxious
to know what kind of questions were put to the slaves, I pushed myself into the knots of intending
purchasers, just as if I had been one of them. The inquiries, I found, related to place of
birth, subsequent removals, competency for work, and so forth. The answers presented a fearful
view of the extent to which the internal slave-trade is carried on. Most of the slaves said
they had been "raised" in Virginia and Kentucky. To avoid the suspicion of being a spy, I resolved
to put a few questions too. I found myself at the establishment where those named in the advertisement
which had drawn me thither were to be disposed of. A pile of handbills--each containing an
exact copy of the advertisement, and a French translation--was lying on the platform. Taking
one up, I observed the name of "Squires, a carpenter." Assuming all the confidence I could
muster, I said, "Which is Squires?" "I'm here, sir." "You are a carpenter, are you not?" "Yes,
sir," (with a very polite bow). "And what can you do?" "I can trim a house, sir, from top to
bottom." "Can you make a panelled door?" "Yes, Sir." "Sash windows?" "Yes, sir." "A staircase?"
"Yes, sir." I gave a wise and dignified nod, and passed on to another groupe. In my progress,
I found by one of the platforms a middle-aged black woman, and a mulatto girl of perhaps eighteen
crouching by her side. "Are you related to each other?" I said. "No, sir." "Have you lived
long in the city?" I said to the younger. "About two years, sir; but I was 'raised' in South
Carolina." "And why does your owner sell you?" "Because I cannot cut--she wants a cutter--I
can only sew." However, seen from the top of the creek that we followed the flat horizon of
the earth and sea, were a surprising greatness by dint of being empty. On
the other hand the continuous movement of the waves and the stillness
of the plain; the contrast of passing ships, with houses that were
motionless, adventurous life and life determined by analogy, should
impress very strongly and secretly savored without doubt, pleasure
itself pungent pleasures of the spirit suffer.

By late afternoon we returned to step short of the rocky road that lies between the newly plowed
fields whose land was blackened. The larks were flying at ground level and run away with a last thrill
of days on the wings. So we came to the vineyards and we left the salt air of the coast. From
the bottom of the plain stood a warmer breath. Shortly after we entered the shade of large trees
blue and often was already nightfall when they cast dismounted in the courtyard of Trembles. In the
evening we met again in a large room fitted with antique furniture, a wide clock pointed hour, and
so vibrant was her calling device which I could be heard up to the upper rooms. It was impossible
to escape from monotonous noise that woke us up with only the rhythm of your pendulum, and many
times we were surprised Sunday and I listened in silence each Severe
second-second murmur that led us from one day to another.

We went to bed slaughter the children whose night was touched by
indulgence in the hall, and whom the mother took to bed, all wrapped
in white cloth, arms hanging and his eyes closed and in sleep.

To this of the ten we parted. I returned to Villanueva, or later when the nights were rainy and
darker and the road less traveled, I kept him in Trembles. I had my quarters on the second floor in a corner
of the building touching one of the turrets. Another time, during his youth, he held Sunday that very
room. From the window the whole plain was discovered, all Villanueva and even the high seas,
and fall asleep listening to the murmur of wind in the trees and the roar of the waves had lulled
to Sunday in childhood. The next day everything would begin as above, with the same fullness
of life, the same accuracy in the distractions and work. The only domestic
accidents I had occasion to witness were indicative of the station,
which disturbed the symmetry of the customs, such as a rainy day amending
the provisions adopted counting on the good weather.

In those days, Sunday was up to his office.

I apologize to the reader for these small details and others will
follow, but they allow you to penetrate slowly and by the same indirect
way than myself led me, the life of the gentleman farmer in the consciousness
of man himself, and perhaps find it less vulgar particularities.

These days, he says, up to his office Sunday, ie retrograde about three or four years and relived his
past few hours. There was in that room some miniatures of family, a portrait of him, when he was very
young, her face surrounded by pink and brown curls, a picture in which there was no facial features
similar to those of man than this, some bundles labeled in a pile of
papers and two libraries: one ancient, one modern fully expressed
by the special selection of books, the predilections that actually
applied in your life.

A small cabinet containing dusty school books only, volumes of study and award. Add to all
this an old desktop shot of ink stains and knife strokes and a beautiful map of the world dating
back half a century in which they were drawn to the most fanciful hand itineraries through all countries of
the earth.

In addition to those examples of his student life, respected and preserved with a genuine love
for a man who felt old, had other stuff that corresponded to revealing
his inner life than he had been, I had thought that I meet to known,
although they have a lot of childishness. Refiérome to what was seen
on the walls, on shelves, in glass, innumerable confidences easy
to decipher.

Leíanse mostly complete dates - day, month and year .-- Era frequent indication set in series with
different data sequence of years, as if many had mainly followed realized something identical,
whether its physical presence somewhere or thinking on the same object. It was rare signature
at the foot of the inscriptions, but not limited were less revealing of personality that was
conceived and recorded. There was also one basic geometrical figure. Above, the same figure was reproduced
with one or two more lines that changed the meaning without changing the principle and repeated with
new amendments came to correspond to particular meanings involving
the original triangle or circle, but with different results.

In the midst of these allegories, whose meaning is not hard to guess, were written some very concise
maxims and many verses all this contemporary work of reflection about human identity in progress.
Most were written in pencil, because the poet timidly stamped or pay too much disdain for plotting permanence
in a way that perpetuated on the wall. Monograms, in which it was linked with a capital D, is highlighted
on the first verse of many of these poems more definite meaning,
memories of more recent times no doubt. Suddenly, as disclosure of
a return to a more painful mysticism or higher, had written - probably
by a fortuitous coincidence of the poet Longfelow - Excelsior, Excelsior,
Excelsior, repeated between a portion of exclamation marks.

Then tell of a time that could be calculated on the date of their marriage, it clearly warned
of indifference or perhaps the result of a strong determination,
had adopted the party not to write more.

Do we judge that had been completed and the evolution of his posthumous existence? Or thought,
rightly, that nothing could henceforth fear that identity for himself that had so carefully
set up to then? One and the last date was very visible to all others
and coincided exactly with the age of John, the her first child was
born.

A large concentration of spirit, an active and intense scrutiny of itself, the instinct to rise
too high each time more and do not control himself never lost sight; skid transformations of life
with the will to recognize themselves in each new face, the kind that makes us understand, feelings
that are born and nurtured soften a young heart of his own substance,
that name which is linked to other verses and escaping from him like the
scent of a flower in spring ; failed efforts towards the high peaks
of the ideal of peace, finally, is done in a spirit stormy, perhaps
ambitious, tormented by insurance chimeras behold, if I mistake not,
what could be read on that record mute, confused most significant
in many memoirs mnemonic.

The soul of thirty years of existence still shaken, pulsated in the narrow cabinet, and when Dominic
was in it before me, looking out the window, a little distracted and perhaps even persecuted by the
echo of old rumors, was a thing of knowing if I had come to evoke what he called the shadow of
himself or to forget. One day she took a package of books placed in a
dark corner of the library; sat me down and opened one of the volumes
and without further preamble began reading in whispers.

Poetry was too worn affairs after many years of country life, of feeling hurt or sad passions.
The verses were good, an ingenious mechanism, open, unexpected, but little lyrical short, the
author's intentions but they were much . The feelings were delicate, but vulgar, and weak ideas.
Apart form that, I repeat, for his rare qualities disagreed sharply with the undeniable weakness of the fund,
it seemed that a young man essay that expands in verse and it is believed some inner music
poet because he gets in the way of the cadences and impels him to speak with words rhymed. Such, at
least, I think, and not having to keep considerations why the author, whose name did not know, gave it
to meet Sunday with the same rawness that I write now. - I then tried the poet, and well court, neither
more nor less than himself. Would you have used the same courage
if I had known that the verses were mine? - Absolutely - I said a little
embarrassed. - So much the better.

That shows me - continued Sunday, - the same thing for the good that you believed me wrong
I am worth. Two other volumes of force similar to this one.

They are also mine. Would have the right to deny them because my name is not listed, but you
would not, of course, the person I hide weaknesses that sooner or
later you all know. I, like many others, I owe anything to those
failed tests and lessons relief. By showing that I am nothing, I've
done has given me the extent to which they are something. What I am saying
is modesty half, but did not miss you not distinguish the modesty of
pride when you know how I may be confused. There were two men on Sunday:
it was not difficult to guess. "Every man carries within itself one
or many deaths," he said pithily the doctor, who also suspected a
great renunciation in the life of peasant Trembles. But that no longer
existed, had, even, given signs of life? And to what extent? What
time? Had he ever betrayed his incognito with more than two books
anonymous and ignored?

... I took the two books that had not opened Sunday, the title was known to me. The author,
whose name had not had time to penetrate deep into the memory of
people who read, filled with honor mid-level post in the political
literature of fifteen years ago. Newly No I had not heard yet who lived
and wrote.

It was part of the small number of discrete writers are never known anything but the title of their works,
whose name they achieved fame without leaving the shade, and can disappear or retreat from the world
without the public, which does not communicate with them rather than
by his writings, I came to know what one has been.

I would repeat the titles of the books and the author's name, watched Sunday, and realizing that you
guessed it, grinned and said: - Above all linsonjee not you the advertiser to console the poet. The
most real difference between the two there is that the press has dealt with the first and has done well
after the second. If I had reason to be silent about the one, is not wrong to accept or the other? He
had many reasons - he continued - to change the name as soon as I had serious reason to keep
anonymous reasons that did not emanate only from literary considerations of prudence and modesty
well understood. You see I was right, because nobody knows today that he signed my books that
has concluded prosaically be mayor of his town and vineyards. - And
do not you write? - I asked. - Ah, no! ... That is over.

Moreover, since I have nothing
to do, I can say that I have no time for anything.

As for my son, here's what I think about it.

If I had become what I am not, consider that the family had produced
enough Bray that his job was done, my son had only procure rest.

But Providence has arranged something else: the roles are exchanged. Is this better or worse
for him? I leave the outline of an incomplete life he completed, unless I am mistaken. Nothing ends,
all passed, even ambitions. After leaving the room haunted dangerous in which it was understood that
a multitude of temptations should harass, Sunday BEING Trembles the farmer. He ran a loving
words to his wife and their children, took the shotgun, called the dogs, and if heaven smiled going
to finish the day in the field soaked with water. Until November
that lasted easy life, family, without major expansions, but with
the abandonment sober and confident that Sunday knew how to put in
everything that was not mixed with his personal life issues.

He loved the countryside as a child and made no secret, but spoke of him as a man who lives
in the countryside, not writer who sings it.

There were words I never spoke their lips, because I never met a man who was more modest than he
in a certain order of ideas, and confession of feelings called poetry was a torture that was
far beyond his strength. He had a passion for the field as sincere, though contained in the form,
which filled him with voluntary illusions and urged him to forgive many things in the villagers even
recognize them ignorant and full of defects and even vices.

He lived in constant contact with them, but did not share their customs or or tastes even one of their
prejudices. The extreme simplicity of his dress, his manner and his life was all pretext of superiority
that none who treated him would have suspected. All in Villanueva had been born, grow, and after
some years of absence turn to their home country and settle in it. There were old for those
with forty-five years and was always Dominguito, but of all those who daily passed near the castle
Trembles and recognized on the second floor, right, that room it was his teenage boy's room or
one suspected, indeed, the world of ideas and feelings that separated him from them. I spoke
of the visits met Sunday and I got back on the matter by reason of
an event of which I was, to some extent, witness, and that impressed
him deeply.

Among the friends gathered as usual to celebrate Trembles Saint Hubert was one of the oldest
comrades Sunday, called D'Orsel, very rich, who lived in retirement,
it was claimed, no family, a house located a dozen miles from Villanueva.

D'Orsel was the same age as his old comrade, although her hair blond and shave his face were
party to represent some years younger. He was good guy, dressed very well, so seductive ways
distinguíanle educated, and inveterate dandyism in the gestures and words, which were a real attraction.
In his whole moral being very much neglect or indifference or much pretense. He was enthusiastic
about hunting and horses, and having adored travel and not travel. Parisian by adoption, almost by
birth, one day he knew he had left Paris without anyone being able to determine the cause of
this retreat, and had come to retreat into his castle Orsel absolutely alone. His life was
truly bizarre.

As a place of refuge and leaving very little to oblivion, not receiving
one, did not explain his conduct but because of desperation, since
he was a man still young, rich, in whom it was reasonable to assume,
if no great passions, burning alive at least very different character.

Uneducated, but had heard acquired some degree of intellectual culture, expressed lofty contempt
for books and deep sympathy for those who devoted themselves to write.
To do that!

After all the existence is well cut and not worth it to take so many concerns ... And with more wit held
the view that common logic of disheartened, though nothing that was considered justified one.
What was more sensitive in that character - a bit fuzzy, as if covered with a layer of dust alone,
and original features of which were beginning to wear out - a kind of passion was indecisive and
not extinct at the same time by luxury, large artificial pleasures
and vanities of life.

And the cool and elegant hypochondria that dominated his whole being proved that if something remained
after the disappointment at such vulgar ambitions, was the disgust of himself and at the same time
excessive attachment to welfare. Trembles was always greeted with much affection, and Sunday will
forgive most of its quirks in grace to the old friendship that united
them, and in which D'Orsel put, by the way, all that was left of his
heart.

During the few days he spent in Trembles, such as he could be in society, ie a kind of agreeable conversation
partner and apart, the odd book out of the ordinary, nothing revealed to what extent the annoyance
dominated her spirit. Mrs. Bray had set himself the task to equate : chimerical undertaking,
since nothing was more difficult to argue reasonably take on these ideas. His response was that ordinary
had passed the age at which you marry for inclination, and that marriage,
like all capital and dangerous acts of life, calls for a boost of enthusiasm.
- Is the most random games - said, - only excuse for the value, the
number, the ardor and sincerity of the hopes placed in it and that's
no fun only when both sides are playing hard. and causes surprised
to see him shut himself up in an abandoned Orsel inaction complained
that his friends, to this observation, which was not new, replied:
- Each one should according to his strength.

Someone said: - This is prudence. - Can be - D'Orsel said .-- In any case, no one could say it's crazy
to live quietly on a farm itself and at ease. - That depends ...-- Mrs. Bray said. - How what, ma'am?
- From the view held about the merits of solitude and especially
the greater or lesser importance you give to the family - her looking
inadvertently added to their children and husband. - It taken into
account - interrupted Sunday, - that my wife considers some social
custom, frequently debated by men of superior talent, as a matter
of conscience and an act required. claims that the man is not free
and incurs no guilt when seeks to cultivate the joy of someone being
able to do so. - So you never marry? - insisted Mrs. Bray. - It is
most probable - said D'Orsel much more serious in tone .-- There are
so many things I have done and I have done, with less risk to others
and less fear on my part ... Risking one's own existence is not worth
anything to compromise the freedom is something more serious, but
marry and be the arbiter of freedom and happiness of a woman!

... Many years ago I pondered the matter and concluded that I should abstain. On the evening
on which he had this conversation, D'Orsel Trembles left on horseback and accompanied by a servant.
The night was clear and cold. - Poor Oliver! - Sunday muttered when he saw him away to his horse
canter with Orsel direction. A few days later the castle via e-mail came to escape and brought
to a Sunday mourning letter, which emptied her reading despite the large domain that was about himself
in terms of emotions. Oliverio was the victim of a serious accident. What kind? Not stated the
letter, or Dominic had his reasons for not explaining more than half. Without wasting time
hooking ordered his carriage, sent for the doctor asking him to accompany
him, and yet an hour had passed since the arrival of the messenger
of sad news, when Bray and the doctor departed hastily Orsel Castle
Road.

It took several days to get back, and in mid-November and returned at night. The doctor, who
first gave me news of the sick, locked himself in strict confidence
and meet the men of his profession.

Only I know that Oliver's life was no longer in danger, was absent, his convalescence would be lengthy
and require their stay in a warm climate country. The doctor said that the accident suffered
by D'Orsel boot carried the result of solo incorrigible awful isolation
that was imposed in the castle making change of residence, air and
perhaps of manners.

Sunday I found very depressed and more alive pained expression on his face was painted when I was
allowed to address any questions about the health of your friend. - I need not deceive you - I said
.-- Sooner or later the truth will be known in a very easy to foresee disaster and, unfortunately,
inevitable. And it gave me the letter of Oliver. "Orsel November 18 ..." My dear Sunday: It is
truly a dead man who writes to you. My life was no good for anyone - I have repeated too - and he
could not humiliate all who love me. It is time to finish it myself. This idea is nothing new,
came to my mind the other day to leave you. The matured by the way,
I found it reasonable for any smooth and return to my home at night and
in a land you know, it was certainly capable of distracting me change
my purpose.

 The room, a dark and dingy-looking place,
was fitted up with desks and seats in the form of the letter D. A desk and a spittoon were
allowed to each honourable member,--the latter article being deemed as necessary as the former.
Whether smoking was suffered during the hours of business or not I cannot tell, but the room
smelt horribly of stale tobacco. Between fifty and sixty members were present, and never certainly,
either in the Old World or in the New, did I see an assemblage of worse-looking men. They seemed
fitted for any deeds of robbery, blood, and death. Several distinguished duellists were pointed
out to me; among them Colonel Crane, an old man, who had repeatedly fought with Mr. Bowie,
the inventor of the "Bowie knife," and had killed several men in personal combat! The motion
before the house just at that time was for the release from prison of a Mr. Simms, who a few
days before had violently assaulted one of the members in the lobby. He was released accordingly.
Who will not pity the 200,000 slaves of this State, who are at the "tender mercies" of these
sanguinary men? Nor let it be said, as it often is, that New Orleans and Louisiana are not
a fair specimen of things even in the South,--that they are more French than American, &c.
This is not the case. Nothing in New Orleans struck me more forcibly than its thoroughly American
character. American usages, American influence, American laws, and American religion are there
predominant. Things were much better for the black and coloured people when it was not so.
The French treated their slaves incomparably kinder than the Americans do. They often married
coloured women, and invariably treated their own coloured offspring, whether legitimate or
illegitimate, with tenderness and regard. They had them suitably educated and adequately provided
for; so that, at the present moment, a large portion of the city of New Orleans is the freehold
property of coloured persons. Not so act the Americans. They indulge in the grossest licentiousness
with coloured women, but would shudder at the idea of marrying one of them; and, instead of
giving any property to their coloured offspring, they do not scruple to sell them as slaves!
Had I gone to the Roman Catholic cathedral in that city, which is attended chiefly by the French
and their descendants, I should have found no negro pew, but persons of all colours intermingled
together in religious observances. The Southerners seem to have no heart--no feeling, except
that of love to the almighty dollar.

The population of New Orleans is about 90,000. On this mass of people are brought to bear the
labours of at least thirteen ministers of the Methodist Episcopal Church, seven Presbyterians,
four Episcopalians, and three Baptists,--all professedly evangelical;--besides a considerable
number of Roman Catholics, and other non-evangelical teachers. But Satan has there a large
array of synagogues.

I omitted, at the proper time, to describe the scene we witnessed at our "private" lodgings
the first day we sat down to dinner. Though it was called a "private" boarding-house, and we
had taken the apartments as such, we found ourselves surrounded by about thirty boarders! These
were all respectable men, or rather men whom, from their position in society, you would expect
to be respectable. Doctors, lieutenants in the army, captains, merchants, editors, clerks of
the senate, and so forth, were among them. My wife was the only lady besides the mistress of
the house.

We were all waiting in an ante-room for the summons to dinner. It came. The door of the dining-room
was thrown open; and before you could have said "Jack Robinson," the whole had rushed through,
were seated at table, and sending forth a forest of forks in the direction of the various dishes!
I had often heard of this wolfish habit, but thought our cousins were caricatured. Here, however,
was the reality. Had I not been an eye-witness, I could not have believed it. Not a single
seat had been kept vacant for the only lady who had to be accommodated, and we were both left
to console ourselves in the ante-room! The landlady, however, having "an eye to business,"
arranged for our accommodation at the table. There had been on the table a turkey, a piece
of beef, some fish, and pastry,--all ready carved. Most of these things had instantly disappeared,--the
knives and forks had borne them away in triumph. There was no waiting to be served: every one
stuck his fork in what he liked best, or what was most within his reach. It was a regular scramble.
The principle seemed to be to begin to eat as soon as possible, no matter what! Some began
with nothing but potatoes, some with a bit of bread, some with a piece of beef, some with a
limb of the turkey. Some, I noticed, beginning with fowl, then taking roast beef, then boiled
mutton, then fish, and then some pastry,--all on the same plate, and--faugh!--portions of most
of them there at the same time! No change of plate,--that would have been extravagant, and
would have savoured of aristocracy. Freedom, it seemed, allowed every one to help himself;
and that with his own knife and fork, which he had before used for all sorts of purposes. Such
luxuries as salt-spoons and mustard-spoons are very rare south of the Ohio. My wife asked the
lady of the house for a small slice of the ham she had before her, when the latter very politely
begged Mrs. Davies to lend her her knife to cut it with! This was good society in New Orleans.
Things improved as we advanced towards the North; but in most places, though the Americans
provide bountifully, the cooking is not good, and they make a strange jumble of things at table. And
straightened the whole course of hack to the house of the General. Miguel thanked her accent touched,
kissing her hands repeatedly. But Lucia was silent, and kept his head bowed in an attitude
of melancholy and reflective, allowing the lip trembling young exhale all the joy that filled his
soul. Soon, Michael could see that some tears fell silently down her cheeks, and experienced
painful impression. - Why are you crying? - Asked, bringing his face
close to the lady.

"Lucy
did not answer. - Why are you crying ? - again said with anxiety
.-- Have I offended?

Do not you love me?

... - Oh no, not that!

... Lloro, Miguel, about our love ... I cry on the last hopeful again ... I'm sorry I met ... Sorry I
left my heart and stayed awake, and forgings, for some moments, some
delightful fantasies that vanished like smoke ... Why should I hide it! When
your love tell me that yesterday I had the weakness to believe in
it, and dreamed, once, with a pure and faithful love, the love that
ennobles the spirit and encourages us to high and ideas generous actions
... I thought back to years schoolgirl, when the world lay before
me like a beautiful lantern transparent and clear, when she did not
see him more than nice things ... all smiling ... everything beautiful
... I went back into youth.

A new dawn for my soul ... But it was only a flash that made me verjeles glimpse of heaven. And
suddenly I was plunged back into darkness ... Now what are we? Two ordinary beings like so many
others living in the mud, trying to persuade themselves that they are happy! Although I love, Miguel,
I have the assurance that they feel for me the respectful admiration, the enthusiasm you felt the
day of Carnival thrown at my feet in the carriage ... Now do you understand my sadness and
tears? Miguel realized that it was necessary to agree with the general, even for a moment. He
lowered his head and looked thoughtful and sad. Suddenly, lifting, exclaimed: - Do not I love you!
Do not you love it! Who is you can stop and admire you see and hear you? No, Lucy, no, the errors
we commit and the spots that fall upon our love, must be only me. You've ceded by the goodness of
your character ... because I want ... and because I sympathize. With these words the son of Brigadier
thought she felt what she said, and was really moved. - Thank you,
Michael, you are generous with me, but I do not excuse your generosity
... I have so much guilt as you.

"The tears were falling in abundance from the eyes of the General. While
attempting to convince her of his innocence, our young prodigábala
thousand passionate caresses, without fear and to be seen of passersby.

The interest of the scene upon him.

Moreover, the night had advanced a little, and roamed the streets that were not the busiest.
They reached the de las Huertas. Lucia alighted in front of his house and entered, Miguel went in
the carriage and fired him in First corner: there waited until the General's half opened the
balcony of his cabinet to fall also.

Lucia lived on the second floor (right and left) recently built a magnificent house, had a considerable
number of servants, English governess to the child first, coachman,
footman, two logs of horses, one value, etc., etc. Be needed in a
hurry to pick up the general Bembo by as many holes as he escaped
his better half.

Miguel, signal light, went home with firm and decisive step for the goalkeeper did not stop. Lucia
is expected in top of the stairs. - Sign quietly - the voice told
him off as he could - and ... on the toes ... When they were in his
office, a room richly decorated with blue satin walls, furniture upholstered
in the same material, slumped on a couch, holding the hand of Michael
who was holding. - Do not know ... I have sent the boy to the door
with an assignment, and my girl with another ... But we still can
hear ... Beware!

The young man sat down beside her and held her transportation. - You are alone and quiet! What a pleasure
so great! The General pushed him away gently, and dropped his head on his chest. - Are not you
happy with me, Lucia? "- Asked, stroking her hand tenderly. - No. - Why? - "Because I fear I have:
because you're a crazy ... and I another crazy - he said bitterly.
- Love, which is more than sublime madness! - Miguel pithily said,
trying to link it again with his arms. - As it is sublime, we must
not degrade ... Be strong with ourselves ... atrincherémonos behind
our high ideas, and defend ourselves from the grossness of passion
... - What a big heart you have!

... You are so beautiful Lucia ... I love you!

I love you! ... You, love! ... - Love me, yes, but love me with an ideal love, worthy of you
and me ... Do not humiliate me, by God, I come down to the ground, because your love puts
me in an elevated ... I 'ad, Miguel ... you'll soon despise ... And
utter such words again few tears fell from his eyes; Miguel protested
against this assumption, said the idealism of his love, covering it
in bright and passionate kisses .

Lucia to be deceived with resignation. The cabinet was a warm nest and beautiful, full of penetrating
perfumes; next to him, separated by gilded wooden columns and a blue damask curtain, was the bedroom.
For the folds of curtain was a large wooden double bed saint, and
near him another small child: the room, dimly enlightened by a pump frosted
candle lamp hanging from the ceiling. - Calla - the General said
suspending the breath and bending head to the bedroom - I think it
arouses my Chuchú.

Indeed, the smallest of their children, who slept in the bedroom, had a slight groan, and was followed
by a stronger one.

Lucia ran to there not to run wild. - Quiet, Chuchú, hush, I am here. The child did not listen.
- If not shut up, the man with the big noses come to fetch you and
take you. - Quero Ia! - cried Child: Ia was the girl, whose name was
Mary. - No, Monin, no, sleep. - Quero Ia! - Do not scream ... gonna
come see the ugly man. - Quero Ia! - Do not shout, baby!

... Mary will come soon ... Tomorrow I send you to sleep with girls.
- Quero Ia! - Look, if you do not shut up, I give you lashes! ... We
go to sleep: if you fall asleep, I'll buy you a horse to go to Retiro
mounted as your friend Julian ... and then I'll take you to the circus
to see the clowns ... Do not you remember the falls that give?

What
jumps as great on a horse! Eh? ... And the blonde girl gets on the
trapeze, how nice, eh?

... And then we Julianito house, and eat candy ... and another day
we'll go Leganés to see Aunt Adelaide to regale you glass the bird
that sings giving rope ... and bring you back home, right?

... Do not you like?

The boy, who had stopped crying for her mother to hear, when it ended
the repertoire of promises, and cried again - Quero Ia! No was possible
by any means make him desist from his efforts.

The General was angry. - But what age is the child? - quietly asked Michael,
who had approached them silently to the bedroom. - Three years. -
Then take it out of bed, no care: to see if it plays with anything.

Lucia wrapped in a shawl and took it to the cabinet.

He was blond and beautiful as an angel, with big blue eyes expressed
surprise not to see Miguel stopped crying and looked at him, yes,
insistently, but without question his mother.

Miguel was a little embarrassed
at that exam, and he regretted having recommended to the General's
removal.

Then
tried to capture their friendship took her by the arms of it, and sat
him on his knees, he gently stroked her hair curly and gave him a
resounding kiss on the cheek. - Do you love me - he asked with a soft
voice.

The child stared
at him with eyes serene and severe. After dryly delivered: - No! Miguel
was troubled, and was impressed since bad. After a while he took leave of Lucy.
IV slowly descended the stairs, angry with soul sad and weary, feeling
self-discontent that always accompanies the illicit pleasures.

What would the poor outside D. Paul
Bembo to the child who stood high with his huge hands "to see God"
had to be over time who mocked his name!

This thought caused a deep malaise.

In vain are said to turn off the cry of conscience, which the General had already dishonored more
than once, that if he does not, another would be, that sin by force of repetition had become venial
in high society; Far from demeaning of her eyes, would be a grace
among many that granted it.

Anyway, she said an inner voice, the absence of the General can not excuse yours, if everyone should
cast the same account, the world would be nothing but a pack of rogues, in addition, he was
in worse case than the other with the General because he had a spiritual
kinship formed by the age difference and the special relationship
that had mediated between them, the general, on the other hand, was
the friend and companion of her father, and no one was as bound as
the Rivera brigadier's son to respect his honor and his gray hair.

It was half past eleven at night. People still ran through the streets,
especially in the downtown, where some theaters began to vomit through their
doors hundreds of spectators.

Miguel was so absorbed in thought, which mortified him more than he ever imagined, which passes through
the streets of Prince did not see two figures lying on the sidewalk until he tripped over them.
There were two children, the youngest of whom slept or rested her
head resting on the knees of the elderly.

The cold was intense. Miguel looked at the street light the extreme pallor of both, especially
the smallest. - Listen, boy, how this child got here half frozen?

Why did not you going home? - Said faced with the greatest. He, who would
have six or seven years old, looked up at him his eyes large and
beautiful, around which drew a blue circle, and stammered some words
could not understand. - What do you say, dear? - Miguel said in a
tone of caring and lowering his head to hear better. - We have only
three real - breathlessly whispered the child. - And does it matter?
- We have to take five. - Ah! - said understanding what that meant
.-- And if you do not hit you wear, right?

The boy lowered his eyes and head in the affirmative. - Do you have
parents? - Mother. - What is the one to knock you to the streets at
this hour? - Yes, sir. - Excellent person! - said in a low, and taking
a few pesetas pocket - Take; go away now home.

The child was to get up, but could not her brother stopped her. -
Lift, Rafaelito.

The little boy was not moving. - Levanta, Rafaelito!

Miguel grabbed between the arms and stood up, but seeing that there
was no, cried out: - The boy is stiff!

What atrocity! And he began to shake and rub.

Some
passersby had stopped and formed around our young children and a
group that was swelling by the minute.

Some wanted to help in the task: others began to question more.

Miguel told them what he knew, and
caused great indignation.

Nothing was heard but that these exclamations :--«¡ Poor things!

Mother Shame! The authority must intervene
in these things!

"Et al. At last he had got the child had standing, but it was ghastly,
their little eyes rolling back and forth without realizing where I
was.

He was about
four or five years. A Miguel suddenly occurred to him that cold over
these unfortunate creatures would be hungry, and taking each hand, he broke
with them, among the many people who had gathered, intending to take them
somewhere maintenance shop stomach.

When I was leaving the group, heard a young people's cry - And then
say that there is no charity in Madrid!

Look, girl, look at that gentleman how it is these poor children ... The
son of Brigadier felt a thrill of joy sweet to hear those words, and
continued triumphantly with two children. But in the corner of Calle del
Prado felt hasty steps that followed his and heard him say: - Sir, let me V.
take one of these children.

The voice was familiar. He turned and recognized the face of Hojeda
apothecary, the faithful friend of his uncle Bernard, Baron humble
and kind so many times he had visited as a schoolboy. - Don Facundo!
- Miguelito!

... I'm
glad it's you, dear ... God will reward you!

... Give me the smallest. - Where did V. at this hour? - From your
uncle ... as always ... Today I got a little sloppy.

When I got this group of people and you came to the boys, but I knew
you: I learned what it was and I wanted to also have my share in the
good work. - Where do you want V. to go?

"... I thought taking them to a restaurant. - If you think - said
shyly D. Facundo, - go into the cafe del Prado is the closest: I
know the owner. - Come, go to the cafe del Prado.

When they reached him, suggested Hojeda entered through the portal,
where a small door that led to the kitchen, and avoided the exhibition.

Entered,
then, in the kitchen, where the petty, the cook and some boys who were
there examined them with surprise.

Hojeda Friera instantly ordered a couple of chops: the cook, to know what it was, began to prepare
in great haste; Petty also deployed its activity. Soon the place met in a few other boys in
a circle around the two boys, with the warmth of the hearth and the lights began to revive. Miguel
was engrossed watching the rags that were dressed. He came also the master, Ojeda, who sent notice,
all questions were questions about the poor kids, who just articulated more than monosyllables. -
Let them now - said the master, - and talk when they have a full
stomach.

 He was called Elder Wright because he was a preacher,--the Baptists here
calling all preachers "elders." Now, this Elder Wright told my friend that a few years ago
there was great fear in his district of the slaves rising up against their masters. To this
they were supposed to be instigated by the presence and influence of some strangers. Under
this apprehension, a secret committee was formed to seize and try every suspected stranger,
and, if he could not clear himself to their satisfaction, to "hang him up quietly." Of this
secret and murderous committee Elder Wright--an alumnus of Yale College, a professor of religion,
and a preacher of the gospel--was chosen chairman; and the statement I have just made came
in the way described from his own lips! It is notorious that in the South they think nothing
of taking away a man's life, if he be even suspected of sympathy with the slave; and a country
so thinly inhabited affords abundant opportunities of doing it as "quietly" as can be desired.
America is indeed a land of "liberty!"

At night we came to Natchez, a town beautifully situated on the top of a hill, about 300 feet
above the level of the river, and for this reason called "Natchez-on-the-Hill." Its population
is about 5,000; and it is the largest town in the State of Mississippi. Its distance from New
Orleans is 300 miles. Darkness had set in when we approached it; yet the numerous lights on
shore, rising row above row to a great elevation, gave it a lively and interesting appearance.
But, alas! Natchez also is a great slave market; and I can never think of it without remembering
the sufferings of poor Mary Brown. Let me narrate her painful story. It may waken in some breast
a feeling of sympathy for the American slave.

Mary Brown, a coloured girl, was the daughter of free parents in Washington city--the capital
of the freest nation under heaven! She lived with her parents till the death of her mother.
One day, when she was near the Potomac Bridge, the sheriff overtook her, and told her that
she must go with him. She inquired what for? He made no reply, but told her to come along,
and took her immediately to a slave-auction. Mary told him she was free; but he contradicted
her, and the sale proceeded. The auctioneer soon sold her for 350 dollars to a Mississippi
trader. She was first taken to jail; and after a few hours was handcuffed, chained to a man-slave,
and started in a drove of about forty for New Orleans. Her handcuffs made her wrists swell
so much that at night they were obliged to take them off, and put fetters round her ankles.
In the morning the handcuffs were again put on. Thus they travelled for two weeks, wading rivers,
whipped up all day, and beaten at night if they had not performed the prescribed distance.
She frequently waded rivers in her chains, with water up to her waist. The month was October,
and the air cold and frosty. After she had travelled thus twelve or fifteen days, her arms
and ankles had become so swollen that she felt as if she could go no further. They had no beds,
usually sleeping in barns, sometimes out on the naked ground; and such were her misery and
pain that she could only lie and cry all night. Still she was driven on for another week; and
every time the trader caught her crying he beat her, uttering fearful curses. If he caught
her praying, he said, he would "give her hell." Mary was a member of the Methodist Church in
Washington. There were several pious people in the company; and at night, when the driver found
them melancholy and disposed to pray, he had a fiddle brought, and made them dance in their
chains, whipping them till they complied. Mary at length became so weak that she really could
travel on foot no further. Her feeble frame was exhausted, and sank beneath accumulated sufferings.
She was seized with a burning fever; and the diabolical trader--not moved with pity, but only
fearing he should lose her--placed her for the remainder of the way in a waggon. Arriving at
Natchez, they were all offered for sale. Mary, being still sick, begged she might be sold to
a kind master. Sometimes she made this request in the hearing of purchasers, but was always
insulted for it, and afterwards punished by her cruel master for her presumption. On one occasion
he tied her up by the hands so that she could barely touch the floor with her toes. He kept
her thus suspended a whole day, whipping her at intervals. In any other country this inhuman
beast would have been tried for the greatest crime, short of murder, that man can commit against
woman, and transported for life. Poor Mary Brown was at length sold, at 450 dollars, as a house-servant
to a wealthy man of Vicksburgh, who compelled her to cohabit with him, and had children by
her,--most probably filling up the measure of his iniquity by selling his own flesh.

As we advanced, we continually met with flat boats, laden with produce, and floating sluggishly
down. In the vernacular phrase, these boats are called "Kentucky flats," or "broad-horns."
They are curiously constructed. At a distance, they appear like large chests or trunks afloat.
They are from 50 to 100 feet long, and generally about 15 or 20 feet wide. The timbers of the
bottom are massive beams. The sides are boarded up square to the height of 6 feet above the
water; the roof being slightly curved, like a trunk lid, to throw off rain. They are adapted
to carry from 200 to 400 barrels. Great numbers of cattle, hogs, and horses are conveyed to
market in them. Coals, too, are thus brought down from the upper parts of the valley. Some
of these barges have apartments fitted up for the accommodation of a family, with a stove,
beds, tables, &c. You may sometimes see in them ladies, servants, cows, horses, sheep, dogs,
and poultry,--all floating on the same bottom. It was precisely in this fashion that the Pennsylvanian
farmer and his wife had reached New Orleans. Indeed, most of our fellow-passengers had come
as captains or crews of flat boats. Of course, no attempt is made to get these unwieldy boats
back against the current. It would be impracticable. The flat boat makes but one trip during
its individual existence. Arrived at New Orleans, it is sold for "lumber," and taken to pieces.
In short, by this arrangement timber and produce are brought to market at the same time, the
"stuff" of which the float is composed being but little injured. One cannot look at these temporary
structures without being impressed with the vast importance of those water-powers which the
Americans, with a wonderful tact, bring to bear in the way of saw-mills on the exhaustless
resources of the forest. The very first thing looked for in settling a new district is water-power.

These flats, though destined for but a single voyage, sometimes do not reach their port,--seldom
without more or less of danger,--and never without infinite toil' They usually carry but three
or four hands. Their form and gravity render them very unmanageable. Lying flat and dead in
the water, with square timbers below their bottom planks, they often run on a sandbank with
a strong head-way, and bury their timbers in the soil. To get them afloat again is a great
labour. Sometimes they run upon a "snag," and are instantly swallowed up with all their crew
and all their cargo. Sometimes a steamer runs into one of them, and produces a catastrophe
equally fatal to both. But all the toils, and dangers, and exposures connected with the long
and perilous voyage of a flat boat, do not appear to the passer-by. As you cut along by the
power of steam, the flat boat seems anything but a place of toil or care. One of the hands
scrapes a violin, while the others dance. Affectionate greetings, or rude defiances, or trials
of wit, or proffers of love to the girls on shore, or saucy messages pass between them and
the spectators along the bank, or on the steam-boat. Yet, knowing the dangers to which they
were really exposed, the sight of them often brought to my remembrance an appropriate verse
of Dr. Watts:--

"Your streams were floating me along
  Down to the gulf of black despair;
And, whilst I listened to your song,
  Your streams had e'en conveyed me there."

These boats, however, do not venture to travel by night; consequently, at any good landing-place
on the Mississippi, you may see towards evening a large number of them assembled. They have
come from regions thousands of miles apart. They have never met before,--they will probably
never meet again. The fleet of flats covers, perhaps, a surface of several acres. "Fowls are
fluttering over the roofs as invariable appendages. The piercing note of the chanticleer is
heard. The cattle low. The horses trample as in their stables. The swine scream, and fight
with each other. The turkeys jobble. The dogs of a hundred regions become acquainted. The boatmen
travel about from boat to boat, to make inquiries and form acquaintances." It is a world in
miniature.

We came on the 12th of February to the Grand Gulph and "Big Black River." The former is situated
at the base of a bold and solitary "bluff." Here, a few years ago, "a negro man was condemned
by the mob to be burned alive over a slow fire, which was put into execution, for murdering
a black woman and her master Mr. Green, a respectable citizen of that place, who attempted
to save her from the clutches of this monster." Such is the newspaper version of the affair.
Had the real truth been stated, it would have appeared that this Green was the "monster," who
had seduced the wretched negro's wife!

The "Big Black River" is not so very "big" after all. It is extremely narrow, although navigable
for some hundreds of miles.

Besides the danger of explosion--which, I apprehend, arises from "racing" and carelessness
more than from any other cause--steam-boats on the "father of waters" are exposed to "snags."
These snags are trunks of large trees that have become fastened in the bed of the river, and
are often found lying against the stream at angles of from 30 to 40 degrees. As the river varies
much with regard to the quantity of water in its channel,--frequently rising or falling from
6 to 12 feet in a few hours,--these snags are sometimes so deep in the water that they can
be passed over with safety; at other times, however, they are but just covered. If a boat coming--especially
down the stream--with high pressure and at full speed, making between twenty and thirty miles
an hour, runs against one of these firmly-fixed, immoveable snags, it sustains a fearful shock.
Not unfrequently a large hole is thus made in the bottom; and boat, cargo, crew, passengers,
and all, sink in an instant. The danger is greatly increased by fogs, often so dense that the
helmsman, though situated on the hurricane-deck and over the fore part of the vessel, can see
nothing before him. In such a case, wise and cautious men "lie to," and wait till the mist
has cleared off.

May not these "snags" serve to remind us of certain characters and circumstances with which
we meet on the voyage of life? Who cannot call to mind many snags--men, rugged, stubborn, and
contentious,--snags by all means to be avoided? D'Israeli was the snag of Peel--Russia was
the snag of Napoleon--Slavery is the snag of the Evangelical Alliance.

On board our steamer was a fine black young man, who acted as barber, waiter, and man-of-all-work.
Curious to know whether he was a slave or not, I requested my friend from Maine to sound him.
"To whom do you belong?" said the Baptist. "I belong to myself, sir," was the prompt and dignified
reply. "That's right," I involuntarily exclaimed; "he is free!" In answer to further questions,
he told us that he was from New Orleans, and had bought himself about two years before for
600 dollars. He could therefore truly say, "I belong to myself, sir!" Oh! that every slave
in America could say the same! But how monstrous, that a man should have to pay to one of his
fellow-men upwards of 120l. sterling in order to "own himself!" Land of liberty, forsooth!

In the evening we reached Vicksburg. This place, like nearly all other places in this region,
is deeply stained with deeds of violence and blood. A few years ago, a set of thieves and gamblers
were here put to death by Lynch law.

Darkness had covered the city of blood when we arrived, and therefore we could not see it.
One of the passengers, in stepping on a plank to go ashore, fell into the water. Through his prodigious style, Don
Rosendo wrote with equal ease an article on freedom of religion, which drafted a report on the livestock
industry. His enemies said he committed many Gallicisms. What? The mere fact fathered a writer
of such caliber, be stopped, and became pure and typical Castilian idioms. The urge to adjust the gallicisms
to Faro, was one of the hobbies that had The Young Sarrio or local
colleague , as he always called it, in order to avoid the name, not
to damage the deep contempt that wanted to show.

Building a dictionary curious that one of the members of the Cabin possessed,
ruthlessly crushed the same items that the "novels to hand "of Faro.
If Don Rosendo said it, for example, that certain matters stopped playing
"not to miss the conveniences', instantly threw it over the Younger,
in a sarcastic questioning.

Where had he learned the ingenious gentleman (and almost always called Belinchón) this sense of the word
convenience? There would certainly be in his famous story, told by Cervantes. If you used the word "governmental"
or "banal" or the phrase "take place", how loud those of Young Sarrio! What hilarity! What contempt!
It lasted until the Club purchased a new dictionary of Gallicisms. Then both newspapers began to
spin so thin in this area, which finally concluded to forget the purity and return to your
style free, happy and independent. Moreover, the dispute had been exacerbated in such a way that
the bands classic embarrassed to insult them. Played in all newsletters and phrases "venomous reptile",
"despicable beings," "brains obtuse", "wallowing in the mud," "vile and degraded beings" and
other no less loving for the opposing side. Tired of insulting each other, soon began to attack
their families. Spared neither their modest wives or their elderly
parents.

The Sarrio Young was the first who gave the signal, publishing a story entitled The slave Daraja Arabic
that under this name, be recounted ce by the story of Dona Paula and Muhammad married Zegrí (Rosendo) dotted
chufletas in poor taste and perfidious insinuations. Belinchón was tempted to send the godparents
to the editor. But considering that this would be to budge and accept what the article contained
the poison, he chose not to appear in question and also avenge the press. Sinforoso, at their
request, wrote an Indian story, which chronicled the life and miracles of Maza's father, who had been
master and slave trafficking in human flesh made his fortune. Since then, as a means of oriental tales
say all sorts of mischief, were used by both parties. The most suitable field for the fight that
the Club and the cabin had been undertaken and the positive results the same for the victor For
the loser, was politics. He became thus early stage eye each other contenders. Not spare any means
to topple and succeed. Until the division of neighborhood we know that politics played little role
in Sarrio. Since that date, was the ordinary food, the key element that blended in all male conversations.
Neither had planned to divest its representation in Congress Rojas Salcedo. He was friends with
everyone and had represented the district for ten and eight.

However, when they reached the municipal elections, the two sides escribiéronle
letters, asking for protection. It was known that the Club wanted at
all costs Roque separate from the city government because more than
once, in exercise of his functions, had sided with the dissidents
at the expense of his former friends.

El Faro had shaken the beautiful with that reason. He grew up enmity. Roque Vengóse abusing
his authority, to send to jail Folgueras. Faro Repitiéronse attacks with more fury. Don Roque,
judging by them a tyrant of the Middle Ages, began to fear for his life and was accompanied by night
and day by veteran Marcones. It was said that a mysterious meeting of the Club, had decreed his death.
The mayor did not came to the liner body. When a retired spot to one could see the lighthouse, promptly
ordered back. Salcedo Rojas answered the Cabin that if Don Roque was elected alderman, mayor be appointed
again. But while the mystery writing with the Club, requesting them to work as much as possible not
to leave. Thus a compromise was being waged. Indeed, supporters of Belinchón, by number, for his wealth
and good skill that took place, achieved success across the line. The struggle, ultimately, was
concentrated at the point where there was Don Roque. The the Cabin knew that if he were elected,
the battle was won. It would be mayor and the powers of this very well countered by the municipality.
The presentiment of the Club as well. Both parties fought with fierce determination. Finally, the
old mayor lost the election by a small number of votes.

Confused and depressed, his eyes bloodshot and his face badly bruised, it was scary, he retired
to his home at last, after spending all day in the municipality. Not a king to be stripped of the
crown, suddenly feel so tremendous.

He came to his home without an escort, as the smallest particular. Well Marcones had seen strolling
through the corridors, and was sure that she saw him too. He dared not ask him to accompany him.
The old sheriff was talking to Don Rufo kindness to an enemy of his, and pretended not to notice
that his boss was. It was not that he should return to more warming
sun.

It was just that Marcones, imbued with the doctrines of modern statesmen, realized that the
police should always be at the power set up. And yet, Roque never had more need to be accompanied at that
time. In addition to a moral cold that chilled the heart, he felt physically sick. Those mortal
hours of agony receiving contradictory information constantly, without food, with only a few
glasses of gin in the body since morning, had deteriorated to a point beyond words. His legs
were weak and the view was obscured. To get home several times found it necessary to rely on the walls.
When he entered the old servant who left to open, fell scared. His master's face looked as if
invisible hands were squeezing her throat mercilessly. In spite of being well accustomed to deciphering
the chaotic, tangled sounds that came from his mouth on all occasions, this time did not understand
the order he gave. He saw that it was withdrawing its fourth straight. Proceeding by induction, led
light and a glass of water. But Mr. Roque became enraged, threw the glass on the floor, screaming
like a madman. Impossible, however, find out what they meant those rumors holes, fearful of hell,
which rose in his throat, and before leaving with a terrible resonance
reflected four or five times in the walls of his enormous cavity opening.

Trembling, embarrassed, went to fetch a bottle of wine. Although a little less angry, also declined
to receive it; repeated with greater emphasis, but not more clarity, the order was given. At length,
by dint of ear down, the maid came to understand that his master called a rum punch. Don Roque, noting
that he had understood, he calmed down, despojóse the huge overcoat that lay prisoner of his
coat, waistcoat.

In seeking to remove his boots, his noble face took the color municipal wine Valdepeñas after
header and could not take the company to a successful conclusion. When the maid came to the punch,
concluded from take off. Then he said he was going to get in bed, they shut the doors and not be
disturbed under any circumstances. The maid did not understand a word of his speech, but he guessed
right this time the substance, and retired. Don Roque has been dropped, in fact, over the bed. Was
covered with clothing to the waist, and leaning back against the pillows, took the glass of punch
and held it to his lips. At once he perceived that there was deficiency in one of the bases. He
gestured vinegary, let out a guttural inadmissible, and rising in his underwear, pulled from
her closet a bottle of rum, which he placed on the bedside table. She returned to bed. Then, serious
and solemn, with the glass in one hand and the bottle in the other, was repairing the error of the
maid. Drank a sip of punch, and then hurried to fill the gap with the liquid from the bottle.
Thus modified the composition, it was much more suited to a state of agitation in which his
spirit was. Because, beneath the apparent calm, the brain of Don Roque displayed a prodigious activity.
All times in one day, he presented one by one sad and gloomy, the
disappointments they had suffered, the dashed hopes, heated disputes,
to the abandonment of Marcones.

And then, the future. This was as black. Let's stick mayor who had held
so many years in glory, to become a private citizen in a Quidam.
Not having the right to enter City Hall.

Passing near a policeman, and not being able to say: - "John, go to the source of Kabila and do not
let the maids scrub the buckets there." View a stonemason working on the street and not have the
authority to order him calque about the stones, which raise or lower
the grade. I felt an intense cold feet.

He got two or three times to put clothes on, without being able to warm them. The bottle went
in the end all the glass, and glass to the stomach. This produced a gentle heat in there, which
was pleasantly scattering by all members. Don Roque felt her tongue untied, and began to speak
only with extreme clarity in his opinion. In fact, if some god or mortal could hear those sounds
barbaric, fall back in horror. On all constantly floated one other strange thing and all, call, mall. A
keen scholar, after studying that sound good, given the persistence
of the consonant vowel ay ll, perhaps infer that the word expressed
by the mayor was rogue.

However, this would not be anything but a more or induction less legitimate. After silent. He
felt a strong heat in the throat, which instantly invaded the face and head. The language would
not work. She felt a physical aggrandizement impression of his whole being. Above all, his
head was growing, he believed in such an enormous, barely able to her. At the same time the objects
around him, the wardrobe, bed, sink, rods leaning against the corner, he appeared with a size tiny. He thought
within the brain to feel the sound of a clockwork in motion, a revolving wheel with a hammer
speed and falling in rhythm with clang. The hammer stopped, and took the wheel spinning. Out there on the
street, saw strong rumor of people, then let him strange sounds stiff.

Poor Don
Roque did not know they were giving their enemies at that time a regular
serenade.

He was to call the maid, but feared that these sounds were like sometimes imaginary. And indeed,
it was confirmed in the idea by listening to a barrage of bells that
deafened him.

It was a dreadful ring, which took part from the higher Toledo, to the glory of his clerkship.
What madness! What fatigue! Fortunately ceased to hit the chime. But it was immediately substituted
by a prolonged whistle so sharp, that tore the tympanum of the ear. Instinctively he raised his hands
to them. After the whistle, he imagined that the bed he got up in the foot. His head sank. I saw his
feet up there. This brought strong grief. He gave a deep sigh, and
feet back to their level.

But then gradually turn up and head to sink. It was necessary to great sighs of restoring them
in place. Not with that fantastic handling warmed the damned. There were two pieces of ice. In contrast,
the rest of Don Roque burned, it burned. Especially the head reached astounding temperatures,
which was increasingly growing. When he put his hand to his forehead
that flowed thought he noticed a bluish flame.

And he heard a voice, the voice of his dead wife for twenty years, calling him shouting: "Roque! Roque!
Roqueee! "The mayor's teeth clashed with terror. He stopped seeing the closet, the walls of
the room, objects that were around, and instead heard a million lights of all colors at first were
motionless, then began to dance with extreme violence.

By dint of crossing with each other, were soon to form concentric circles, one blue, one
red, one purple, etc., Revolving on itself to be a much richer spectrum
than sunlight.

At last those circles, also disappeared, leaving a single faint point
of light. But that point was growing slowly. First was a star, then
a moon, then an enormous sun that was expanding and acquiring both
a vivid red.

That sun grew and grew steadily. Your hard huge color of blood covering her half of the ceiling,
then covered the two-thirds, and finally filled it all. Roque was a moment dazzled. Suddenly saw
nothing. Never again see anything good mayor. In the morning they found him dead, sitting on
the bed, her head tilted backwards. A case of apoplexy.

Why have to remove? - Do not know. So I sent it to say for Prospero.
- But does it matter to him that music go to San Antonio? - Uttered
in a tone irritated. - I think it's because today a man arrives home
of Don Rosendo.

.. and as the road crosses the pilgrimage ... - Ah, yes, the Duke of lathes
... But what does that matter?

... We are mad! ... Here, let me one time, I'm going to dress, and I will see Maza. I think
we'll fix it. Let. Fair Mr. Anselmo's stay, and with more urgency than might be expected of his years and infirmities,
Mateo aderezóse to exit. His wife and daughter were, as usual, in the church. Ordered breakfast.
- I can not give it, sir. The lady has taken the keys, and no chocolate outside. - Always the same! -
Murmured the old man, not as angry as it should .-- I do not know
why this woman does not leave out what to leave needed ... It is true
that, as a rule, I get up late, but there may be an urgent business
as now ... - Want to be an ounce of chocolate to ask the neighbor?
- No, it does missing.

I'm sure Matilda will be angry. Is there anything out there to eat?

"The maid took a few seconds to answer. - No, sir, I think there
is nothing.

You know that Mrs. ... - Yes, yes, I know.

Don Mateo was the dining room and began to scrutinize the shooters.

Nothing, there was only the table utensils, knives, forks, corkscrew. When through the glass
of the cabinet saw some chocolate bars and a tray of biscuits. - Wow, if it gave any key! And taking
the began his introduction into the lock. The tests were not successful. Hopeless, finally, fixed
the glasses with impatience, put on his hat, took his staff and said initiating the march: - Well,
well, we'll put up for today. But before reaching the back door, and some asked the domestic shortened:
- Is there bread in there - not here yet the baker. If you want what is mine ...-- she replied,
smiling. - Well, to see that bread of yours. He went to the kitchen. The maid opened the lid
of the masera, and Don Mateo took half rye bread, black enough. - This brown bread at one time I did
not like - said cutting a piece .-- Viva brown people! - he said walking through the mouth a morsel
of crumb to the crust because I had not dared. The maid laughed surprised that good humor. - is
tastier than ours. If it were not already a bit hard ... He brushed the crumbs with your hand, arranged
the glasses again and after a drink of water because the wine was also closed, it flew off towards
the town hall. The clock pointed to ten building. He crossed the portico of arches, went up the vast
stone staircase and corridors to get to where there was more of a finger of dust on the floorboards,
Marcones asked who he was met by Don Gabino. - The mayor is in session.
- In session?

Diablo, what time so rare! Indeed, so rare has been noted. Two years had elapsed since the death
of Mr. Roque. Member of the Club, who had entered City Hall as winners
and had at Mayor Don Rufo, more than a year and a half, this time
suffering the bitterness of defeat.

Even
had a majority in the municipal corporation, but limited.

But the Cabin in Madrid had been arranged in such a way that managed
to appoint Mayor Gabino Maza.

It was
said that this was due to nasty pasteleo Rojas Salcedo.

Noting
this in the last municipal elections enough progress in the Cabin forces
had been tipped on its side.

No need to mention the storm of hatred and threats against him for
that reason arose between the supporters of Don Rosendo.

Had been engaged in a fierce struggle. Each session of the council was a scandal. The Maza had done
to prosecute the corporation outgoing waste of funds by: had the court of first instance for
you.

Those of Belinchón had that in court would make them justice.

But for those who say that God said ayudaréte help yourself and be put into
play to achieve powerful influences. Letters came and went from Madrid.
The Cabin is not neglected either to prevent it. Maza wear yourself
out their opponents with the rod of justice.

Like most of Don Rosendo was only two
votes, hatched plots to tear them admirable.

Sometimes call special sessions at times when one of them it was
impossible to attend, others feigned errand sent to some council members,
announcing that it had suspended, others, at the time of any matter
put to a vote, he did it with words ambiguous according to his friends,
for Don Rosendo confounded and would vote against themselves, as happened
on more than one occasion.

On more than one also closed in the secretariat left some council
members taking the key.

After the gorged municipality parents screaming and hitting the door,
a sheriff came to opening, but it had gained the vote.

Thanks to these and other tricks, to the countless injustices he
committed, the choleric vengábase former Marine of his enemies, who
was a beauty.

His tactic was to attack them where it hurt, that is, in their real
estate.

When in any street had one or more houses of any member of the Club and none of his friends, made the
city architect to vary the grade, leaving lower.

Thus was discovered the foundations of houses and at risk of falling
to the ground, therefore also the hassle of putting up the porch stairs.

A few months
as mayor, had more than twenty houses with foundations Sarrió air.

Other times, he made up the ground so that when heavy rain, were
flooded.

Of course, such
tricks aroused strong outcry in favor of Belinchón, angry tirades
by the lighthouse, and countless riots in municipal meetings Maza ..

But it was all a
damn.

Remained impassive its unprecedented urban reforms, cruel smile listening
with complaints of their victims, responding to fierce sarcasm to
the speeches of the speakers the other side.

Marcones Mateo introduced in an adjacent room to the chamber.

The forum for the public was too ugly to get into it a decent person.

In addition, interested him very little fights roosters those Englishmen.

In the same room sat chatting amicably the two notaries of the population, and Don Victor Varela Sanjurjo.
One was an old, small, bug-eyed, with an enormous wig, so rudely
made that looked like esparto, the other a middle-aged man, pale,
graying mustache and lame.

Saluted our old and old friends, whom you see every day. No one in the radius of the village left to greet
Don Mateo. - Hoping to end the session, eh? - Yes, sir - a dryly
responded and removed the old reservation that the desire to enter
into further inquiry.

 It was the cheapest, and (apart from the companionships) the most pleasant mode of
travelling we had ever experienced. As the boat stayed but a couple of hours at Cincinnati,
we had to land without delay. Being a stranger in a strange land, I inquired for the Congregational
minister, and was told that his name was Boynton. In perambulating the streets in search of
his house, I was pleased to see but one shop open. It was a tailor's, and, as I afterwards
learned, belonged to a Jew, who closed it on Saturdays, the law of the State compelling all
to close their shops one day in the week. In every street, we were struck with the glorious
liberty enjoyed by the pigs. On all hands, the swinish multitude were seen luxuriating in unrestricted
freedom. Mr. Boynton, who received us kindly, did not know of any place where we could be accommodated
with private board and lodging, but promised to make inquiry that evening. He was a man of
about forty years of age, wearing on the Sabbath, and even in the pulpit (as most American
ministers do), a black neckerchief, and shirt-collar turned down over it. That night we had
to go to an hotel, and were recommended to the Denison House, which we found pretty cheap and
comfortable. But the American hotels are not, in point of comfort, to be compared for a moment
to those of Old England. My wife was too tired to go out in the evening; and unwilling for
my own part to close the Sabbath without going to some place of public worship, I thought I
would try to find the sanctuary of "my brethren--my kinsmen according to the flesh"--the Welsh.
Following the directions I had received, I arrived at the top of a certain street, when I heard
the sound of sacred song; but I could not tell whether it was Welsh or not, nor exactly whence
it came. As I stood listening, an overgrown boy came by, of whom I inquired, "Where does that
singing come from?"--"I guess it comes from a church down below there." "Is it a Welsh Church?"--"I
can't tell, but I guess it is." "Well, then," I rejoined, "I guess I will go and see." I turned,
and the youth "guessed" he would follow me. I got to the door. The singing had not ceased.
It was Welsh--the language in which I had first heard "Am Geidwad i'r Colledig!"[1] How interesting
in the "Far West" to hear sounds so sweet and so familiar to my childhood! None but those who
have experienced can tell the charm of such an incident. The minister was in the pulpit. His
dress and hair were very plain, and his complexion was extremely dark. He was evidently a Welshman:
there was no mistake about it: his gravity, plainness, attitude--all told the fact. I ventured
forward, and walked along to the stove, which to me was an object of agreeable attraction.
Around the stove were two or three chairs. A big aristocratic-looking Welshman, a sort of a
"Blaenor," who occupied one of these chairs, invited me to take another that was vacant. The
eyes of all in the synagogue were upon me. My "guessing" informant had followed me even there,
though he evidently understood not a word of Welsh. The building was about 40 feet by 35, without
galleries, and was about two-thirds full. The pulpit was fitted up in the platform style--the
"genuine" American mode. The text was, "How shall we escape, if we neglect so great a salvation?"
The sermon was good and faithful. The audience--the men on one side of the chapel, and the
women on the other--did not excite much interest. The men, especially, were among the worst
hearers I had ever seen. I felt ashamed of my countrymen. The spitting was incessant, and attended
with certain unmentionable circumstances which render it most disgusting and offensive. What
a contrast to my own clean and comely congregation of black and coloured people in New Amsterdam!
In about twenty minutes after the preacher had begun his sermon, one-half of the men had their
heads down, resting on both arms folded on the tops of the pews before them. Whether they were
asleep or not, the attitude was that of deep sleep. This behaviour was grossly rude,--to say
nothing of the apathetic state of mind which it indicated. I wondered how the preacher could
get on at all, with such hearers before him. I am sorry to say that the Welsh too frequently
manifest a great want of decorum and devotion in their religious assemblies. This is telling,
and will tell, against dissent in the Principality.

The Welsh service being ended, my big friend on the next chair asked me, in the same language,
if I was a llafarwr (preacher). I answered him in the usual Welsh phrase, "Byddaf yn dweyd
ychydig weithiau," which means that I did a little in that way. On learning this, he desired
my "cyhoeddiad" (publication--another Welsh phrase) to preach there some night during the coming
week; and he wished it to be announced there and then, to which I would not consent. He introduced
me to Mr. Jones, the minister. After most of the congregation were gone, a groupe, including
my big friend and Mr. Jones, collected around me, and most earnestly pressed for my "publication."
I told them I had never been a Welsh preacher, that it was nearly five-and-twenty years since
I had left the Principality, and that, moreover, I could not preach at all to men who put down
their heads in the sluggish and sleepy manner in which most of their men had done that night.
"Oh! but they won't do so when you, a stranger, preach," was the reply. "Then," I said, "there
must be a great want of true devotion among them, if that would make all the difference." However,
being much pressed, I promised at last to give them, before I left the city, a little missionary
information in Welsh.

The name of my big friend was Bebb, a near relative, as I subsequently learned, of His Excellency
W. Bebb, the present Governor of the State of Ohio. The history of this Governor deserves a
passing notice. He is the nephew of the late Rev. John Roberts, of Llanbrynmair, a man of great
worth and usefulness, whose praise is in all the Congregational Churches of North Wales. Mr.
Roberts, when a young man, joined the Church at Llanbrynmair, began to preach under its sanction,
became its pastor, sustained that office for thirty-six years, and is succeeded by his two
excellent sons, Samuel and John, as co-pastors! Towards the close of last century, Mr. Roberts's
sister, married to a Mr. Bebb, emigrated to America; as did also his brother George, who still
survives, and of whom Dr. Matheson gives an interesting account in the seventh letter of the
second volume of "Reed and Matheson's Narrative," calling him "Judge Roberts, the Pastor of
the Congregational Church!" at Ebensburg, in Pennsylvania.

Mrs. Bebb was soon left a widow, with two sons, William and Evan. But "the Judge of the widow"
and "the Father of the fatherless" did not forsake her. She is a woman of a strong mind and
great piety, and a thorough hater of slavery and oppression in all their forms. Her own principles
she endeavoured to instil into the minds of her sons, sparing no efforts to fit them for acting
a useful and honourable part in society. William was brought up to the law, and Evan to commerce.
And now, in the evening of her days, the pious old Welsh-woman has the gratification of seeing
Evan an enterprising and successful merchant in New York, while William enjoys the highest
honour that his fellow-citizens of Ohio can confer upon him! He is the Governor of a territory
of nearly 40,000 square miles, and a population of 2,000,000. Mr. Jones, the minister, is intimately
acquainted with Mrs. Bebb, who carefully instructed her distinguished son in the good old language
of Wales, so that, at the time of his recent canvass for office, he was able to address the
Cambrian portion of his constituency in their mother tongue.

On entering into office, he declared his determined opposition to the "black laws" of Ohio.
Those "black laws" are black indeed. They are the foul blot of this otherwise honoured State.
One of them is intended to prevent the coloured citizens of other States from removing to Ohio.
It was enacted in 1807, and is to this effect,--that within twenty days after the entrance
of an emigrant into the State, he is to find two freehold sureties in the sum of 500 dollars
for his good behaviour, and likewise for his maintenance, should he, at any future period,
be unable to maintain himself. The Legislature well knew that it would be utterly impossible,
generally speaking, for a black or coloured stranger to find such securities. In 1800 there
were only 337 free blacks in the territory; but in 1830, notwithstanding the "black laws,"
there were 9,500. A large portion of them entered in entire ignorance of this iniquitous law,
and some perhaps in bold defiance of it. But it has by no means remained a dead letter. In
1829 a very general effort was made to enforce it,--about 1,000 free blacks being driven from
the State, to take refuge in the more free and Christian country of Canada. Sir J. Colebrook,
the Governor of Upper Canada, said to the coloured deputation that waited upon him, "Tell the
Republicans on your side of the line that we Royalists do not know men by their colour. Should
you come to us, you will be entitled to all the privileges of the rest of His Majesty's subjects."
A noble sentiment! and one calculated to make a "Britisher" proud of his country, particularly
since the abolition of slavery in our other colonies. At the time these people were thus driven
away, the State of Ohio contained but 23 inhabitants to one square mile!

In 1838 official notice was given to the inhabitants of the town of Fairfield, in Ohio, that
all "black or mulatto persons" residing there were to comply with the requirements of the law
of 1807 within twenty days, or it would be enforced against them.

At the very time I was in Ohio an attempt was made, in Mercer County, to eject by force a number
of inoffensive black people. Originally slaves in Virginia, they had been liberated by the
will of their late master, and located on a suitable quantity of land which he had secured
for them. But the magnanimous and liberty-boasting Americans would not allow them to enjoy
their little settlement unmolested; and it was extremely doubtful whether the Governor would
be able to protect them from outrage.

In 1839 a number of coloured inhabitants of Ohio addressed a respectful petition to the Legislature,
praying for the removal of certain legal disabilities under which they were labouring. The
answer was a denial, not merely of the prayer of the petition, but of the very right of petition!

To these "black laws" Governor Bebb has avowed an uncompromising hostility; but the first session
of the State Legislature after his election had just closed, and the black laws were still
in force. Mr. Bebb was not sufficiently supported in his just and humane intentions to enable
him to carry those intentions out. I was assured, however, by those who knew him well, that
he was only "biding his time," being as determined as ever to wipe away from the statute-book
every remnant of these foul enactments. If he succeed, the poor old Welsh-woman, in her obscurity
and widowhood, will have rendered an important service to the cause of humanity and justice.
Let mothers think of this, and be encouraged!

The day after our arrival in Cincinnati, being the 22nd of February, we obtained, by the aid
of Dr. Weed (one of Mr. Boynton's deacons), a suitable private lodging. Dr. Weed in early life
studied for the medical profession, and graduated in physic. Afterwards he spent some years
as a missionary among the Indians. Now he is a bookseller, publisher, and stationer in Cincinnati,
affording an illustration of that versatility for which the Americans are distinguished. I
have heard of a man in New York, who, having tried the ministry and completely failed, wisely
judged that that was not the way in which he could best serve God, and turned to commerce.
He is now a substantial merchant, and supports five other men to preach the Gospel; each of
whom, he is wont to say, does it much better than he could ever have done.

The lodging which Dr. Weed kindly found us was at the house of the Misses M'Pherson, five Quaker
sisters, living together. It was clean and respectable,--the cheapest and most comfortable
lodging we had hitherto met with. The table was bountifully supplied with excellent and well-cooked
provisions; for which the charge was only 4 dollars each per week, and half-a-dollar for fuel,
making altogether only 9 dollars for us both. Of the kindness and hospitality of these ladies
we shall always retain a grateful remembrance.

In the afternoon I had the honour of being introduced to Dr. Beecher, Dr. Stowe, Professor
Allen, and several other Presbyterian ministers of the New School. They were assembled for
fraternal intercourse in the vestry of one of the "churches." I was struck with the sallowness
of their complexions, and the want of polish in their manners. Dr. Beecher invited me to go
up some day to see Lane Seminary, about two miles off. To this invitation I readily acceded.
I was greatly interested in this veteran, of whose fame I had so often heard.

February 23rd.--In the evening, I went to a meeting of the Democratic party in the town-hall,
thinking it would afford me a good opportunity for observing American manners. The place was
full; and when I arrived, a gentleman was addressing the meeting with great vehemence of tone
and gesture. His speech consisted of innumerable changes rung on the sentiment--"There must
be a vigorous prosecution of the war against Mexico." But I must reserve any further account
of this meeting for my next letter.

In resuming my notice of the Democratic meeting, let me observe that the Democratic party in
America is not very reputable. It is the war party, the pro-slavery party, the mob party, and,
at present, the dominant party,--the party, in fine, of President Polk. It had just been aroused
to the highest pitch of indignation, by a telling speech delivered in Congress against the
Mexican War by Thomas Corwin, Esq., one of the Ohio senators. This meeting, then, was intended
as a demonstration in favour of Polk and his policy; but it turned out a miserable failure.

When the blustering speaker who "had the floor" when I entered sat down, the "president" (for
they do not say the chairman) rose, amidst a tremendous storm of favourite names, uttered simultaneously
by all present at the top of their voices, and, as soon as he could be heard, said it had been
moved and seconded that So-and-so, Esq., be requested to address the meeting: those who were
in favour of that motion were to say "Ay,"--those against it, "No." One great "Ay" was then
uttered by the mass, and a few "Noes" were heard. The "Ayes" had it. But an unforeseen difficulty
occurred. So-and-so, Esq., either was not there, or would not speak. Amidst deafening noise
again, the president rose, and said it had been moved and seconded that John Brough, Esq.,
be requested to address the meeting. "Ay"--"No;" but the "Ayes" had it. "Now, John Brough,"
said a droll-looking Irishman, apparently a hod-carrier, who was at my elbow,--

  "Now, John Brough,
  Out with the stuff."

Here was Paddy on the western side of the Allegany Mountains, with his native accent and native
wit as fresh and unimpaired as if he had but just left his green isle, and landed on one of
the quays at Liverpool. But John Brough again declined the honour conferred upon him! Then
it was moved and seconded and "ayed" that So-and-so, Esq., be requested to address the meeting,
but he also was not forthcoming! Nil desperandum. It was moved and seconded and "ayed" that--Callaghan,
Esq., be requested to address the meeting. Looking, then, something that filled his life, found a
flute. It was an ebony flute with silver keys, which appeared among the papers of his father. The College
illustrious lawyer, to his own, was also romantic, if somewhat old, and played the flute with great
feeling, but never in public. Emma, upon reflection, he had no objection to the flute from his father passed
into the hands of her husband. He, also spread well after oil, and heat, thanks to some repairs,
like new, was devoted to music, his favorite pastime, body and soul.
Skills was recognized more than medium, a regular mouthpiece and
a lot of feeling , mostly.

The sweet timbre, arguably nasal, monotonous and tame the melancholic instrument, which smelled
of almond oil as the head of the musician, was in keeping with the character of Bonifacio Reyes,
to nod that made him the ring, tilt Reyes exaggerated, helped to give it some resemblance to a saint. Reyes,
playing the flute, a saint musician recalled a pre-Raphaelite painter. On the black hole between the
mustache of a brown silk, you could see occasionally the tip of the tongue, clean and healthy,
the eyes, light blue, large and sweet looking, like a mystical, higher orbit, but not because it
looked to heaven, but to the opposite wall, because Reyes had his head bowed as if to attack.
I used to keep time with the tip of a foot, hitting the ground and in the passages of great
expression, with gentle undulations of the body, taking as crazy waist. In the allegros shook
hard and animation, strange man apparently so lethargic, his eyes before lifeless and attentive to
the music just as if they were an integral part of the flute or depend on it for hidden spring, took
heart , and taking heat and brightness, and showed untold hardships, such as an intelligent animal
rescue calls. Bonifacio, in these trances, like a drowning man drowning and looks in vain for a savior,
the tightness of the muscles of the face, red cheeks lit and that desire for the look, I thought
Reyes would express the intensity of their impressions , his great love of melody, but more like
signs of an asphyxia irremediable; did think of the stroke, in any physiological terrible crisis, but not
in the beautiful heart of music lover, simple as a dove. By not bothering anyone, nor spending
money from his wife because he did not own, to buy sheet music, I borrowed the polkas and the entire Italian
opera scores that were his charm, and he copied all those torrents of harmony and melody, represented
by signs loved the staff. Emma asked not account for these hobbies
or the time it occupied, which was most of the day.

Only required him to be always dressed, well dressed, to the hours of going out to walk or visits.
His Bonifacio was just a trim figure to her, there was nothing inside, was a soul of a pitcher,
but the figure could be present and make her matrons of envy to many people. Lucia to her husband,
who bought good clothes, he dressed well, and reserved the right to have him as a good soul. He
seemed, in the early stages happy with their lot. There went in or out in the business of the
house, not spend more than a poor student in the gift of his person,
for luxurious clothing that was not in fact own expense, but the vanity
of his women, he liked to look good, but it would have dispensed with
this luxury sartorial without a sigh; also thought that idle and useless
expense of commissioning pants and coats to Madrid, excessive dandyism,
then unheard of in the town.

  I knew him a modest tailor, flute too, that for little money was able
to cut no worse than the sinful court artists. This I thought, but did not
say. It was left to dress.

His resolution was even as little as possible on the house Valcárcel,
and silence all. "II" Emma was the head of the family was, as mentioned
above, the tyrant.

  Uncles, cousins and nephews were complying with their orders they
respected their whims.

This dominion over the souls did not explain enough so for economic reasons, but certainly these
influenced enough. All Valcárcel were poor. The fecundity of the race was famous in the province
of females gave birth Valcárcel lot, and they were not far behind that men did join the family,
through legitimate marriage. Procreate much and want to work, this seemed to be the theme of that lineage.
Among all Valcárcel there had been more industrious man throughout the century as the father of Emma, the
lawyer, who had been, within marriage, less prolific than their relatives. It has been said that
Emma was an only child, and therefore attorney's universal heir romantic and flutist. But the savings
advantage lawyer came to his daughter somewhat diminished.

It seems that the chastity of D. Valcárcel Diego was not as extreme
as was believed, their true virtue had always been to prudence and
secrecy, knowing that the bad example and scandal are the most formidable
enemies of well-organized societies, and he saw that not could be
kept in chaste widowhood, including seducing the house maids and maidens
of her daughter, and, perhaps, as the temptation had pointed out several
times to the ear, the respectable clients, homeless women who came
to his office demanding legal and moral light, as he said, between
this and regulate the service, the inevitable expansion of lean meat,
opted for the latter, organized with wise and prudent distribution
of Aphrodite secret service, as I said it too.

And there, outside the town, surrounding villages where he often
took care of the farm business itself and others, came to be, tell
the truth, Abraham - Pater Orchamus - irresponsible people a great
natural children, many of wedlock.

Neither his conscience, nor the priest who confessed, who in life had often helped to prevent
scandals, not some embarrassing confessions threats by some sinful, he consented, when a little rushed
to make a will, leaving certain obligations in complete oblivion of the blood, and as he could,
keeping the formal pretense that were the case, they let you send here and there, everything fell in
law Emma inheritance consented.

This was not the worst, but, after consultation
  of the spiritual director, D.
Diego had done before many dispositions inter
  vivos surreptitiously, to, very
reluctantly, made him fear the scandal, which
  was his great virtue, as stated
above. In addition, Emma was a lot
  less wealth than his father,
but she barely knew about, because the
  papers were headache, syncope creeps
numbers and the letter of the curia.
  There the uncle always said that
it was of interest. She did not understand
  anything but spend. Well wished
D. Juan Nepomuceno, prior and
  current curator Emma Butler,
shake all the flies that buzzed relatives as diminished
  around the honeycomb of
inheritance, but this was not feasible because
  the endearing affection for Valcárcel
past, present and future had become niece, required
  the most generous hospitality
to welcome all yours. D. Juan had to
  be content with being the only
gentile administrator of that
  bounty, but did not influence
to prevent waste, not even to
  get only redound to their
advantage over the generosity of his former pupil.
  Emma, who had a miscarriage,
came out of a crippled life crises of
  the bowels, stomach very weak,
and lost flesh and hid premature wrinkles.
  But he could not hide a cold and
sinister brilliance of vision, unpleasant
  as he alone in that brightness and
repulsive expression that accompanied
  him, had become the mysterious
glow of those eyes that had sung
  to the guitar, several relatives
of the enfermucha woman, nervous, irritable.
  Of those relatives, the most
secret lovers long ago, each according to his temperament,
  his court made Emma, every day
more despised her husband, who only considered
  as a physicist, and felt more
Live affection for his race. Reyes understood
  well that, without fault, was
becoming the enemy of its allies, the enemy
  defeated and humiliated by
his wife handed him helpless, bound
  hand and foot, a few relatives
wanted to make him a tambourine. The Valcárcel,
  natives of the mountain had come down to
the villages of the plains and the plains to
  seek life more comfortable and
spring, and all went to the file resource
  to search weddings ahead,
seducing the rich men of the village
  with scrolls and carved
stone shields, back in the houses of the
  maze, and young girls with good
figures of arrogant force and gentlemanly
  courtesy that abounded in the family.
Valcárcel Almost all were good lads,
  but not so heroic grandfather, slender,
but word is late, stern faced, hoarse voice,
  dark and proud deal openly; distinguíanse
also exaggerated by its adherence to the layer,
  whose use was excused most of the year
in the dump low, mild and wet, where
  they used to find brides.
Some carried their audacity, while the layer, extending
  his travels poor gentleman to
the gates of the very capital
  of the province, and finally D. Diego,
the father of Emma, the superior genius
  of the family without a doubt,
entered the city without fear, was a student
  entrepreneur and skull, and upon
reaching the age of majority and
  take the degree, changed his
character, suddenly, was serious as a
  mattress, study room opened, grabbed
the clientele of the mountain, flattered
  margin lords, judges also serious
and friends of the finest formulas,
  made good marriage, left poor,
shone brightly in Court of Premier lighthouse,
  and, without prejudice to be romantic
in the heart of hearts, and even write
  leaflets within the home, safety
valves and let the vapors of sentimentality
  on the keys of the flute, was blowing with tears eyes, was the stiffest
yet a lover of the letter and spirit and an enemy of all risky and
irreverent interpretation of the law is sacrosanct.

  And do not mind that once had the
Chamber to direct the most polite
  warning, or the neatness of his
language in Court took the bench, but
  languages, arriving at this
point to drop D. Diego, tell the truth, in
  a culteranismo, excusable,
yes, because through his eloquence he was attempting
  to come out as the ermine of
the muddy waters of the private rot,
  where he was being dragged,
sometimes, the needs of the forum. Ever
  had to acknowledge, against his will, to an unworthy priest of sexual
offenses, and although the fund seeks to be strong, terrible, implacable,
there was no way you use your tongue hard epithets, even energetic
even picturesque Arriving the heat of the attack to call his opponent
"the misguided priest, if allowed to be so regarded." ill-advised
- said after D. Diego explaining the adjective - that is, I guess
that the priest had not fallen into such frivolities but for advice
from someone, probably the devil.

" Her lawyer to fight Valcárcel forensic speeches and left the vulgar language that was used familiarly
in his homeland, and sought to be imposed even in courtrooms, but he triumphantly knew how to find
equivalent terms cults of the vulgar and tacky, and and on one occasion,
having to talk about the feet of a barn or a basket, in the country
are called pegollos before staining their lips with such a curse,
saying he preferred "the props of the engine, Mr. Excellency".

A these qualities that had won the sympathy and respect for all the judges, joined the gift is not
negligible a very happy memory for dates with unfailing accuracy, and thus had more numbers
in his pate than in a table of logarithms.

He yes, was the surname of the Valcárcel, thanks to D. Diego, to a degree of brilliance that had
no remote for ages that had stood for the weapons. Honour and profit had won the distinguished
jurist, and one and another advantage, the relatives wanted to enjoy that, because of the fertility
of their females and related incurred a painful proletariat threatened Valcarcel fill the world. There
was advantageous marriages to be enough, with this unbridled power prolific, you get to race
very rational fear of giving the order in poverty. This movement of expansion in search of
prosperity, which had been pointed in the direction of vendamont, down the mountain to valley,
and again indicated in a proportionate reaction in the direction of wind, tossing again to the forest,
the houses of the maze, the number of offspring Valcárcel, multiplied without rhyme or reason, unable
to work for it is not working properly can call, at least in the economic sense, a thousand troubles
that round about the green cloth passed Emma's relatives, almost all players, and many of them
victims of their passion, which erupted in the form of aneurysm. D. Dead Diego, Valcárcel
lost their only support, and the recoil of the mountain looking accelerated in the whole family.
When they came down to the plain increasingly wild, most proud,
his hatred of courtesy, complicated formulas provincial high society,
is stressed. The poorest were grown, had more arrogance and more despised
manor life in town and on level ground. On the banks, as they called
upstairs to the lowlands, only respectable thing Valcárcel recognized
the Mount: the green cloth. He went to the fairs to play, to lose to strive
... and home. On the way back to that race had turned to the horde,
was that the atavism of an entire lineage. For some time, largely contained
in this alarming trend, the exalted spirit of Emma.

The adjective that her baby woke up with such exaggerated vehemence, served to reconcile many of their
relatives with civilization and the flat land. The visits to the capital were more frequent, perhaps
because they were cheaper and more comfortable. It was known that the house
of the famous and now deceased attorney D. Valcárcel Diego was, as
he would have called if he lived, jenodokia, jenones, or Christian,
outsiders shelter.

Emma, who at one time had been neglected, not without vanity, the adoration of his cousins and uncles
- they also had passionate guys - now, that is, after having lost the flower of beauty, especially
the freshness, for because of the miscarriage, we enjoyed remembering the old triumphs of love
despised and wanted to chew the impressions of that delightful bygone worship. Rodeábase with voluptuous
delight, as a warm and fragrant atmosphere in the presence of those Valcárcel someday head had
been thrown into the water to enjoy a smile of his. Love that in some of them had to have happened
by force, so pain of being ridiculous and fat years, and the prose of existence terrible poor ranger
up there, they had removed all likelihood character of any attempt to record love, but no matter: Emma
was pleased to see his side those who still remembered with respect and
love the dead love, and devoted to the object of such worship all compatible
with the natural gifts sullen and sudden wild race. Courtly love those
past, perhaps to pay their tributes, especially in the thought current
bounty heiress D. Diego, the only person who still had four quarters
in the whole family, but she, the fickle spouse of Bonifacio unhappy,
did not stop to examine the hidden motives that was heeded its indisputable
sovereignty over their own.

It is likely that any longer relatives saw the beauty in his prime, in fact, had flown, but some
pretended, with great delicacy in concealment, hiding heart still a fire under the ashes that duty
and morality thrown on top.

Emma also enjoyed without realizing it clear, thinking vaguely, savoring this holocaust of love with the
uncertainty problem of distant music and sounds that is not known if the apprehension or in the ear.
What was a familiar dogma, which had its invariable formula, was this: that Emma did not go days
of the stomach that was nothing, and that after birth the wrong way, was more fresh and vigorous than
ever. Nobody believed such a thing, because it was obvious that they were not, but assured everyone.
The courtiers of that Sultana capricious and violent and variable,
avenged his humiliation inescapable Bonifacio Reyes despising without
any kind of dissimulation.

Emma came to feel affection for her husband in a way similar to that could inspire the Roman Emperor
his horse a senator. Another dogma of the family, but the secret was that "the girl had cut her misfortune
joining man." Sebastian's cousin confessed sighs that the only act of his life that he was sorry (and
it was man who had played the deed to a letter mother), went back to the time of his mad passion for
Emma, a passion that made him fall into the weakness to consent to all necessary steps to seek,
find, use and marry the stupid clerk D. Diego. That weakness, that blindness of passion, it
is not forgive them. And Sebastian sighed, and sighed the other relatives, and also sometimes Emma
sighed, enjoying involvement with that sadly resigned victim who suffers a lifetime the disastrous
consequences of a youthful folly. "III" The good husband for a long time did not stop lie in such
injuries. In the depths of the soul, and despite the elegant English wool suit that had made
him wear, was still considered the former clerk of D. Diego, who had paid their favor with the blackest
ingratitude. Valcárcel All the gentlemen were to him.

Congregational as well as Presbyterial Churches obtain pastors from this "school of the prophets."

The "Faculty" at present consists of the Rev. Lyman Beecher, D.D., President, and Professor
of Theology; the Rev. Calvin E. Stowe, D.D., Professor of Biblical Literature, and Lecturer
on Church History; and the Rev. D. Howe Allen, Professor of Sacred Rhetoric and Pastoral Theology,
and Lecturer on Church Polity.

Nothing struck me more than the feeling of equality that seemed to subsist between students
and professors. The latter, in speaking to or of any of the former, would generally say "Brother"
So-and-so. The students also, in their bearing towards the professors, seemed each to say,
"I am as good a man as you are." This is the genius of America. You meet it everywhere. There
man is man (except his skin be black), and he expects to be treated as such. Respect to superiors
is not among the maxims of our Transatlantic brethren. The organ of veneration is, perhaps,
imperfectly developed.

On the previous Friday, Professor Allen called to request me to preach in his stead at the
Second Presbyterian Church on Sunday morning, the 28th of February, as he had to go some twenty
miles into the country to "assist at a revival." I agreed to do so. Sunday morning was excessively
cold, with a heavy fall of snow. On arriving at the "church," I found there was no vestry.
Indeed, a vestry, as a private room for the minister, is seldom found in America. The places
are exceedingly neat and comfortable, but they want that convenience. I had therefore to go
with my hat and top-coat, covered with snow, right into the pulpit. This church outside is
a noble-looking building, with massive pillars in front, and a bell-tower containing a town-clock;
but the interior seemed comparatively small. It had a gallery at one end, which held only the
singers and the organ. The seats below were not more than one-third full. Dr. Beecher ministered
in this place for about ten years. It was now without a pastor, but was temporarily supplied
by Professor Allen. The congregation was far more decorous and attentive than those in New
Orleans. After the introductory service, and while the hymn before sermon was being sung, a
man came trudging down the aisle, bearing an immense scuttle full of coals to supply the stoves.
How easy it would have been before service to place a box of fuel in the vicinity of each stove,
and thereby avoid this unseemly bustle! But in the singing of the hymn, I found something to
surprise and offend me even more than the coal-scuttle. The hymn was--

  "O'er the gloomy hills of darkness," &c.

I had selected it myself; but when I got to the second verse, where I had expected to find

  "Let the Indian, let the negro,
   Let the rude barbarian see," &c.,

lo! "the Indian." and "the negro" had vanished, and

  "Let the dark benighted pagan"

was substituted. A wretched alteration,--as feeble and tautological in effect as it is suspicious
in design. The altered reading, I learned, prevails universally in America, except in the original
version used by the Welsh congregations. Slave-holders, and the abettors of that horrid system
which makes it a crime to teach a negro to read the Word of God, felt perhaps that they could
not devoutly and consistently sing

  "Let the Indian, let the negro," &c.

This church, I heard, was more polluted with a pro-slavery feeling than any other in Cincinnati
of the same denomination,--a circumstance which, I believe, had something to do with Dr. Beecher's
resignation of the pastorate.

At the close of the sermon, having pronounced the benediction, I engaged, according to our
English custom, in a short act of private devotion. When I raised my head and opened my eyes,
the very last man of the congregation was actually making his exit through the doorway; and
it was quite as much as I could manage to put on my top-coat and gloves and reach the door
before the sexton closed it. This rushing habit in the House of God strikes a stranger as rude
and irreverent. You meet with no indications of private devotion, either preceding or following
public worship. A man marches into his pew, or his pulpit, sits down, wipes his nose, and stares
at all about him; and at the close, the moment the "Amen" is uttered, he is off with as much
speed as if the house were on fire. In this instance, the service had not exceeded an hour
and a half; and yet they hurried out as if they thought the beef was all burnt, and the pudding
all spoiled. Of course, there were no thanks to the stranger for his services,--to say nothing
of the quiddam honorarium, which to a man travelling for health, at his own expense, with an
invalid wife, might have been supposed not unacceptable.

When, however, I got to the portico outside, a gentleman, with his wife, was waiting to see
me before they stepped into their carriage. Here was some token of politeness and hospitality,--an
invitation to dinner, no doubt.--"Thank you, sir, I am very much obliged to you; but I left
my wife very ill at our lodgings this morning, and therefore I cannot have the pleasure to
dine with you to-day," was the civil excuse I was preparing. Never was expectation more beside
the mark. My "guess" was altogether wrong. "What are you going to do with yourself this afternoon?"
was the gentleman's blunt salutation. "What have you to propose, sir?" was my reply. "I am
the superintendent," he said, "of a German Sunday-school in the upper part of the city, and
I should like you to come and address the children this afternoon." I promised to go, and he
to send to my "lodgings" for me. We both kept our appointment. The number of scholars was about
100. This effort to bring the Germans under a right religious influence is very laudable; for
there are about 10,000 of that people in Cincinnati. One quarter of the city is entirely German.
You see nothing else on the sign-boards; you hear nothing else in the streets. Of these Germans
the greater part are Roman Catholics.

After visiting the school, I found myself in time to attend one of the chapels of the coloured
people at 3 P.M. A medical student, whom I had met in the morning, and again at the German
school, accompanied me. He was a New Englander, and a thorough anti-slavery man. When we got
to the chapel--a Baptist one--they were at prayer. Walking in softly, we entered a pew right
in the midst of them. The minister--a mulatto of about thirty years of age, with a fine intelligent
eye--was very simple in dress, and unostentatious in manner. His language, too, was appropriate
and correct. He was evidently a man of good common sense. His text was Psalm li. l2, l3. He
referred very properly to the occasion on which the Psalm was composed, and drew from the text
a large mass of sound practical instruction. The chapel (capable of containing about 150 people)
was only half-full. Before the sermon, I had observed a very old negro, in a large shabby camlet
cloak and a black cap, ascending the pulpit-stairs. I supposed that, being dull of hearing,
he had taken that position that he might better listen to the service. However, when the sermon
was over, this patriarchal-looking black man rose to pray; and he prayed "like a bishop," with
astonishing correctness and fluency! He was formerly a slave in Kentucky, and was at this time
about eighty years of age. They call him "Father Watkins." At the close I introduced myself
to him and to the minister. They both expressed regret that they had not had me up in the pulpit,
to tell them something, as "Father Watkins" said, about their "brothers and sisters on the
other side of the water." The minister gave me his card, and invited me and my wife to take
tea with him on Tuesday afternoon. This was the first invitation I received within the city
of Cincinnati to take a meal anywhere; and it was the more interesting to me as coming from
a coloured man.

In the evening I went, according to appointment, to the Welsh Chapel. There I met a Mr. Bushnel,
an American missionary from the Gaboon River, on the western coast of Africa. He first spoke
in English, and I afterwards a little in Welsh; gladly embracing the opportunity to exhort
my countrymen in that "Far West" to feel kindly and tenderly towards the coloured race among
them; asking them how they would themselves feel if, as Welshmen, they were branded and despised
wherever they went! I was grieved to see the excess to which they carried the filthy habit
of spitting. The coloured people in their chapel were incomparably cleaner in that respect.

In the morning a notice had been put into my hand at the Presbyterian Church for announcement,
to the effect that Mr. Bushnel and myself would address the "monthly concert at the church
in Sixth-street" on the morrow evening. Of this arrangement not a syllable had been said to
me beforehand. This was American liberty, and I quietly submitted to it. The attendance was
not large; and we two missionaries had it all to ourselves. No other ministers were present,--not
even the minister of the church in which we were assembled. The people, however, seemed heartily
interested in the subject of missions. At the close, a lady from Manchester, who had seen me
there in 1845 at the missionary meeting, came forward full of affection to shake hands. She
was a member of Mr. Griffin's church in that city, and had removed to America a few months
before, with her husband (who is a member of the "Society of Friends") and children. I was
glad to find that they were likely to be comfortable in their adopted country.

Next morning I went with Dr. Reuben D. Mussey, a New Englander, to see the Medical College
of Ohio. Dr. Mussey is the Professor of Surgery and Dean of the Faculty, and is highly esteemed
for his professional skill and general character. He and his son, who was my guide on the Sunday,
very kindly showed and explained to me everything of interest in the institution. The cabinet
belonging to the anatomical department is supplied with all the materials necessary for acquiring
a minute and perfect knowledge of the human frame. These consist of detached bones, of wired
natural skeletons, and of dried preparations to exhibit the muscles, bloodvessels, nerves,
&c. The cabinet of comparative anatomy is supposed to be more extensively supplied than any
other in the United States. What do you tell me that? - Well, I suggest that you live a thousand
troubles, you get tired eyes and hands working spoil you, and let
your mother works also as a AzaC.

And all for what? To live poorly, eating poorly and walk through the streets made a heap, his
head covered with a shawl of bad death, when if you wanted you could go dressed like a queen and be the envy
of the most posh and wealthy ladies of this place without the stop Ines own counted in the number
of envious. - And how must I do this miracle? - asked Juanita. - There is nothing easier - said
Rafaela -. We are alone and I will tell you bluntly. There is a man, the most powerful of all,
who get off on your pieces.

With your flavor we have enthralled, and you have fry your disdain.

Everything depends on you. Stop being surly, pronounce a word and you'll
have all you like.

Concealing his anger with a smile, then told the girl: - What word is that I have to say? What spell
is this that has to put into my hands by magic as astonishing wealth? Who is the magician who
will come to my remembrance and it will be so generous to me? - So
who is to be, girl?

"- Said Rafaela to see or to imagine that his advances were not angry
- Who being but the very Excellency Mr. Andres Rubio? - "And where
do you know?

Who do you entrusted me with this message vinieses? - I recommended him ... nothing more natural
... confidant Don Andrés. I recommended him Longinus. - Now I understand: As Longino joker
is so wanted to give us a joke, because I guess I will not take me
by Christ, nor think of giving me released. - Not released or joke.

Longino looks at you with the utmost respect because you are the idol
of his master, and seeks in all seriousness, you receive his master
in your sanctuary. - Well, look, Rafaela - Juanita said - gave very
seriously also Longino , which is a rascal without shame, and that
he and his master go to weed onions. - Do not alter, daughter, not
you step on the vine - Rafaela said angry to see Juanita -.

What is lost or what
offense you try it in the ford? - I'd better the devil tempts you,
Aunt witch.

Arre, out of here, fit you in the broom and transposed to the sabbath!
- Not for the rage.

I proposed to you for your sake and without any interest. De ungrateful
to hell is paved.

Rafaela
went to the kitchen muttering. Juana returned home shortly after the chief. Juanita continued
to keep silence, without saying anything of what happened.

That night was restless and sleepless Juanita. His pride in his feeling humiliated, hurt his
heart and not let him sleep. 'So she could not, by itself, free,
earn respect?

Is it necessary to go to Don Paco to defend her, committing? Would Dona Ines reason to advise him to
become a nun?

Were they so vile your background that it could not be upheld and respected, but under the protection
and guardianship of a generous man who tended his hand and sacase
mud that had apparently lived?

These and similar reflections horribly tortured to spurred girl and his pride. Sad and haggard was barely
rose during the day.

Two or three hours was brooding, raging and training projects. Several times he thought about going
to see Don Paco, who had come to see it banned until ten and middle
of the night, and who had determined not see before.

She thought to tell the insolent claim of Andres for Don Paco had
him at bay, but soon gave up such a cowardly purpose.

At last, as Juanita was very devout, took her shawl and went to pray
at the church, hoping to find inspiration there and comfort.

Juana had already gone back to Don Andrés to continue their culinary
occupations and their preparations for the big dinner.

No, and this time in the church of La Soledad, which is at the top of the hill, but in the new parish,
the former convent of Santo Domingo, where he was so battered by the sermon, Juanita was praying
fervently for a long time. On leaving the church to go home Longino met face to face. Longino approached
her, greeted her with sly finesse and said softly, almost in his ear: - Do not be so hard and
so heartless. Stop Killing who is dying of broken heart you. Give
the quotation humbly asked. Juanita stepped back, as one moves away from
the object that inspires disgust and Longino threw a look of supreme
contempt.

Longino not understood. Then, with all calmness and with all the
freshness who has taken a final decision and he knows what he says
and what it does, Juanita said: - Tell me your love await you tonight
at my house at eight o'clock.

Rafaela open the door. I will
be alone in the upper room.



Mr. Boynton is what a friend of mine called "intensely American." He has lately published,
under the title of "Our Country the Herald of a New Era," a lecture delivered before the "Young
Men's Mercantile Library Association." To show the magnificent ideas the Americans entertain
of themselves and their country, I will transcribe a few passages.

"This nation is an enigma, whose import no man as yet may fully know. She is a germ of boundless
things. The unfolded bud excites the hope of one-half the human race, while it stirs the remainder
with both anger and alarm. Who shall now paint the beauty and attraction of the expanded flower?
Our Eagle is scarcely fledged; but one wing stretches over Massachusetts Bay, and the other
touches the mouth of the Columbia. Who shall say, then, what lands shall be overshadowed by
the full-grown pinion? Who shall point to any spot of the northern continent, and say, with
certainty, Here the starry banner shall never be hailed as the symbol of dominion? [The annexation
of Canada!] * * * It cannot be disguised that the idea is gathering strength among us, that
the territorial mission of this nation is to obtain and hold at least all that lies north of
Panama. * * * Whether the millions that are to dwell on the great Pacific slope of our continent
are to acknowledge our banner, or rally to standards of their own; whether Mexico is to become
ours by sudden conquest or gradual absorption; whether the British provinces, when they pass
from beneath the sceptre of England, shall be incorporated with us, or retain an independent
dominion;--are perhaps questions which a not distant future may decide. However they may be
settled, the great fact will remain essentially the same, that the two continents of this Western
Hemisphere shall yet bear up a stupendous social, political, and religious structure, wrought
by the American mind, moulded and coloured by the hues of American thought, and animated and
united by an American soul. It seems equally certain that, whatever the divisions of territory
may be, these United States are the living centre, from which already flows the resistless
stream which will ultimately absorb in its own channel, and bear on its own current, the whole
thought of the two Americas. * * * If, then, I have not over-rated the moral and intellectual
vigour of the people of this nation, and of the policy lately avowed to be acted upon--that
the further occupation of American soil by the Governments of Europe is not to be suffered,--then
the inference is a direct one, that the stronger elements will control and absorb the lesser,
so that the same causes which melted the red races away will send the influence of the United
States not only over the territory north of Panama, but across the Isthmus, and southward to
Magellan."

The "New Era" of which America is the "Herald" is, he tells us, to be marked by three grand
characteristics,--

"First. A new theory and practice in government and in social life, such as the world has never
seen, of which we only perceive the germ as yet." Already have you indeed presented before
the world your "peculiar institution" of slavery in a light new and striking. Already have
you a "theory and practice" in the government of slaves such as the world never beheld!

"Second. A literature which shall not only be the proper outgrowth of the American mind, but
which shall form a distinctive school, as clearly so as the literature of Greece!" Under this
head he says, "Very much would I prefer that our literature should appear even in the guise
of the awkward, speculating, guessing, but still original, strong-minded American Yankee, than
to see it mincing in the costume of a London dandy. I would rather see it, if need be, showing
the wild rough strength, the naturalness and fervour of the extreme West, equally prepared
to liquor with a stranger or to fight with him, than to see it clad in the gay but filthy garments
of the saloons of Paris. Nay more, much as every right mind abhors and detests such things,
I would sooner behold our literature holding in one hand the murderous Bowie knife, and in
the other the pistol of the duellist, than to see her laden with the foul secrets of a London
hell, or the gaming-houses of Paris. * * * If we must meet with vice in our literature, let
it be the growth of our own soil; for I think our own rascality has yet the healthier aspect."

"Third. A new era in the fine arts, from which future ages shall derive their models and their
inspirations, as we do from Greece and Italy. * * * So far as scenery is concerned in the moulding
of character, we may safely expect that a country where vastness and beauty are so wonderfully
blended will stamp upon the national soul its own magestic and glorious image. It must be so.
The mind will expand itself to the measure of things about it. Deep in the wide American soul
there shall be Lake Superiors, inland oceans of thought; and the streams of her eloquence shall
be like the sweep of the Mississippi in his strength. The rugged strength of the New England
hills, the luxuriance of the sunny South, the measureless expanse of the prairie, the broad
flow of our rivers, the dashing of our cataracts, the huge battlements of the everlasting mountains,--these
are American. On the face of the globe there is nothing like to them. When therefore these
various influences have been thoroughly wrought into the national soul, there will be such
a correspondence between man and the works of God about him, that our music, our poetry, our
eloquence, our all, shall be our own, individual and peculiar, like the Amazon and the Andes,
the Mississippi and Niagara, alone in their strength and glory."

Now, mark you! amidst all these splendid visions of the future, there is no vision of liberty
for 3,000,000 of slaves. That idea was too small to find a place among conceptions so vast.
The lecture contains not a syllable of reference to them. On the contrary, the empty boast
of freedom is heard in the following words of solemn mockery: "The soul of man here no longer
sits bound and blind amid the despotic forms of the past; it walks abroad without a shackle,
and with an uncovered eye." It follows then that there is an essential difference between "the
soul of man" and the soul of "nigger," or rather that "niggers" have no soul at all. How can
men of sense, and especially ministers of the Gospel, sit down to pen such fustian? These extracts
show how intensely national the Americans are, and consequently how futile the apology for
the existence of slavery so often presented, that one State can no more interfere with the
affairs of another State than the people of England can with France and the other countries
of the European continent. The Americans are to all intents and purposes one people. In short,
the identity of feeling among the States of the Union is more complete than among the counties
of Great Britain.

On the morning of the 4th of March, Dr. Stowe called to invite me to address the students at
Lane Seminary, on the following Sabbath evening, on the subject of missions and the working
of freedom in the West Indies. I readily promised to comply, glad of an opportunity to address
so many of the future pastors of the American Churches, who will occupy the field when emancipation
is sure to be the great question of the day. In fact, it is so already.

In the afternoon we went with Mrs. Judge B---- to see an Orphan Asylum, in which she took a
deep interest. Requested to address the children, I took the opportunity of delivering an anti-slavery
and anti-colour-hating speech. The building, large and substantial, is capable of accommodating
300 children; but the number of inmates was at that time not more than 70. While the lady was
showing us from one apartment to another, and pointing out to us the comforts and conveniences
of the institution, the following colloquy took place.

Myself.--"Now, Mrs. B, this place is very beautiful: I admire it exceedingly. Would you refuse
a little coloured orphan admission into this asylum?"

The Lady. (stretching herself up to her full height, and with a look of horror and indignation),--"Indeed,
we would!"

Myself.--"Oh, shocking! shocking!"

The Lady.--"Oh! there is another asylum for the coloured children; they are not neglected."

Myself.--"Ay, but why should they not be together?--why should there be such a distinction
between the children of our common Father?"

The Lady. (in a tone of triumph).--"Why has God made such a distinction between them?"

Myself.--"And why has he made such a distinction between me and Tom Thumb? Or (for I am not
very tall) why has he made me a man of 5 feet 6 inches instead of 6 feet high? A man may as
well be excluded from society on account of his stature as his colour."

At this moment my wife, seeing I was waxing warm, pulled me by the coat-tail, and I said no
more. The lady, however, went on to say that she was opposed to slavery--was a colonizationist,
and heartily wished all the coloured people were back again in their own country. "In their
own country, indeed!" I was going to say,--"why, this is their country as much as it is yours;"
but I remembered my wife's admonition, and held my peace. These were the sentiments of a lady
first and foremost in the charitable movements of the day, and regarded by those around her
as a pattern of piety and benevolence. She was shocked at the notion of the poor coloured orphan
mingling with fellow-orphans of a fairer hue.

In the evening we went to take tea at the house of an English Quaker. About half-a-dozen friends
had been invited to meet us. These were kindred spirits, anti-slavery out-and-out, and we spent
the evening very pleasantly. One of the company, in speaking of the American prejudice against
colour, mentioned a remarkable circumstance. Some time ago, at an hotel in one of the Eastern
States, a highly respectable coloured gentleman, well known to the host and to his guests,
was about to sit down at the dinner table. A military officer--a conceited puppy--asked the
landlord if that "nigger" was going to sit down? The landlord replied in the affirmative. "Then,"
said the fop, "I cannot sit down with a nigger." The rest of the company, understanding what
was going forward, rose as one man from their seats, ordered another table to be spread, and
presented a respectful invitation to the coloured gentleman to take a seat with them. The military
dandy was left at the first table, "alone in his glory." When thus humbled, and when he also
understood who the coloured man was, he went up to him to apologize in the best way he could,
and to beg that the offence might be forgotten. The coloured gentleman's reply was beautiful
and touching,--"Favours I write on marble, insults on sand."

On the morning of the 5th of March, the sun shining pleasantly, we were tempted to cross over
to Covington, on the Kentucky or slave side of the river. Ferry-steamers ran every five or
ten minutes, and the fare was only 5 cents. At this place the Baptists have a large and important
college. Why did they erect it on the slave rather than on the free side of the Ohio? This
institution I was anxious to see; but I found it too far off, and the roads too bad. Feeling
weary and faint, we called at a house of refreshment, where we had a genuine specimen of American
inquisitiveness.

In five minutes the daughter of the house had asked us where we came from--what sort of a place
it was--how long we had been in the United States--how long it took us to come--how far we
were going--how long we should stay--and if we did not like that part of America so well that
we would come and settle in it altogether! and in five minutes more our answers to all these
important questions had been duly reported to the rest of the family in an adjoining room.
This inquisitiveness prevails more in the slave than in the free States, and originates, I
believe, in the fidgetty anxiety they feel about their slaves. The stranger must be well catechised,
lest he should prove to be an Abolitionist come to give the slaves a sly lesson in geography.

In the afternoon I went to see the school of the coloured children in Cincinnati. This was
established about four years ago by a Mr. Gilmore, a white gentleman, who is also a minister
of the Gospel. He is a man of some property, and all connected with this school has been done
at his own risk and responsibility. On my venturing to inquire what sacrifice of property he
had made in the undertaking, he seemed hurt at the question, and replied, "No sacrifice whatever,
sir." "But what, may I ask, have these operations cost beyond what you have received in the
way of school-fees?" I continued. "About 7,000 dollars," (1,500l.) said he. Including two or
three branches, there are about 300 coloured children thus educated. Mr. Gilmore was at first
much opposed and ridiculed; but that state of feeling was beginning to wear away. Several of
the children were so fair that, accustomed as I am to shades of colour, I could not distinguish
them from the Anglo-Saxon race; and yet Mr. Gilmore told me even they would not have been admitted
to the other public schools! How discerning the Americans are! How proud of their skin-deep
aristocracy! And the author of "Cincinnati in 1841," in speaking of those very schools from
which these fair children were excluded, says, "These schools are founded not merely on the
principle that all men are free and equal, but that all men's children are so likewise; and
that, as it is our duty to love our neighbour as ourselves, it is our duty to provide the same
benefits and blessings to his children as to our own. These establishments result from the
recognition of the fact also, that we have all a common interest--moral, political, and pecuniary--in
the education of the whole community." Those gloriously exclusive schools I had no wish to
visit. But I felt a peculiar pleasure in visiting this humbler yet well-conducted institution,
for the benefit of those who are despised and degraded on account of their colour. As I entered,
a music-master was teaching them, with the aid of a piano, to sing some select pieces for an
approaching examination, both the instrument and the master having been provided by the generous
Gilmore. Even the music-master, notwithstanding his first-rate ability, suffers considerable
loss of patronage on account of his services in this branded school. This exhibit more or less founded,
would be at least reasonable, even intelligible, and its base, form the essence of the soul in thought,
would have voted in favor of Descartes.

Thus, although not the words of Fichte
  salvásemos, we would save the least
their ideas. But unfortunately, the philosopher
  has been careful to close this out,
    his words could not be more strict.
    "Yet examined the proposition: I am me."

  The self is as absolutely: if we admit
that the self
  
    occupies in Prop. formal subject site,
    designated the ego as absolutely, and that I found in the place of
the predicate, designates the existing I, the trial has an absolute
value asserts that both are completely the same thing, or posts absolutely,
the self exists because it has become himself. "All trials involving identity
of the predicate with the subject, but in the proposition: I am I,
the identity is not only implied, but explicitly recorded, for which
reason, belongs to the kind of people whose names are identical, because
the predicate does not explain anything about the idea of the subject,
only the repeats.

  
Where does it Fichte that the
  self exists because it has set himself?
    So far we have only the self saying: I
    am me, it says to himself, and so put as subject and predicate of
a proposition, but it is clearer than daylight that to saying, is
not to produce; on the contrary, common sense and reason teach that
to the legitimacy of the statement is necessary the existence of the
thing asserted.

Confusing these ideas, taking place say to put it is an incomprehensible monstrosity. [133.] Explaining
this in a note, Fichte adds the following. "The same is true relative to the logical form of all
propositions. In the equation A = A, the first A is what is put in the self, is quite like
myself, is on a foundation either, as yet not given me. The ego represents in this way the
role of subject, for which is called at the first A, subject. The second A self appointed himself
becoming the object of reflection, as the post itself, because he
has put this object itself.

The judging me, makes a predicate of something, not being in the A, but of himself, because in itself
is the A, and so the second A is called predicate. Thus in the proposition A = B, A is what is put
in the time when the proposition is enunciated, and B what was put before the word is expressed the transition
of the self, the act of putting to reflect on what is put. "What does Fichte with this jumble of ideas
and language? Will you mean that in this proposition, the self is subject and predicate, according
to the different aspects under which it is considered? "I want to say that the ranks as a subject,
expresses merely the existence, and is offered as a predicate which an object's reflection? What do
you mean by the word get? occur again if you understand how is it possible that something that is
not occurring to itself? if you understand manifest, so that the object
shown to serve as a logical term of a proposition, then why do you
say that the self exists because it puts itself?

But let the German philosopher in his pilgrim deductions. [134.] " The I of the first meaning
and the second to be placed as absolutely identical with each other, then you can convert the
above proposition, and say, I put quite himself because there is, to put it same for the simple
fact of its existence, and there simply because it is put. "Without having defined the word
to, without having said anything more than what everyone knows: that the self is the self, infers that
the self exists because sets, and put it there, identifies existence with the place, oblivious that
they were needed at least some groundwork for daring to fight so common sense and the doctrine
of philosophers including Descartes, that the operation required
existence, and reputed by contradiction that a thing may be active
not exist.

Leibnitz thought that nothing is or can be without a sufficient reason, but thanks to the author
of the Science of Knowledge, we populate the world of finite or infinite we shall come in mood,
and when asked where did they say that have come since, and if we are wondering why touts have
been, shall we say because there are, and if it still requires us
to say why they exist, will respond, because they have, so that we
pass the place to be, and exist to make without danger of being ever
mistaken.

[135.] This philosophy and is easy to see, there is nothing light,
gave him satisfaction to its author to the point of continuing with admirable
serenity, saying, "these observations fully clarify the sense that
the word I used here; and we provide a clear and lucid explanation
of the self as absolute subject. The absolute subject is that I be there
simply because it posits itself as existing. It is as assumed, and
as is, as sets . The self exists as an absolute and necessarily for
me. What does not exist for himself, not me.

"The idealistic pantheism can not be established in a more explicit and more free at the same
time: is surprised one of having to deal seriously with such large
eccentricities. But they put noise because they are unknown, and thus the
reader should be presented as they are, even at the risk of fatigue.
[136.] Fichte care to clarify their ideas, with the understanding
that each clarification added new grades to its obscurity. Let him continue.
"Clarification .-- What was I, you ask, before it had consciousness
of myself?

The natural answer is: I did not exist: it was not me, the ego does not exist, but as self-aware
.-- propose this question is to confuse the self as subject to the self
as an object of reflection of the absolute subject, and this is an inconsistency:
the self posits himself, is seen here in the form of representation,
and only then is something, an object, in this form of consciousness
perceives a substratum that is, without conscience rather than real,
and it is also designed under the flesh.

This way of being is what is considered when asked what is the self, that is the substratum of consciousness,
but then inadvertently absolute subject is conceived as having intuition of this substratum, and so,
almost without noticing, we have in sight the thing that they wanted to do without, and falls into contradiction.
You can not think nothing, thinking your self, as having self-awareness, you can never ignore their
conscience and therefore is not possible to answer such questions, because one can not assume when one
understands oneself.

'That prior to being conscious of himself, the self does not exist as an object of reflection, a palpable
truth, before thinking to himself he thinks to himself: who can doubt?
but the difficulty is whether the self is something, regardless of
their own reflection, or of objectivity to himself, that is, if the
self is something more than being thought of by itself.

The question is not contradictory; but naturally offers to reason and
common sense, for both reason and common sense are reluctant to take
on the same things: to be known and exist, knowledge and produce.

                                                        It is not now
whether or not we have idea clear of the substratum of
  consciousness, but it is curious what the German philosopher noted,
  that when we do not see the self as an object of reflection, we conceive
  under a corporeal form. This is to confuse imagination with ideas,
very different things as I have shown elsewhere (Lib. IV, from Cap.
I, to the X). [137.] It is the doctrine of Fichte that the existence
of the self is in putting himself through consciousness, and if that
did not exist, the self would not exist.

In this case, being and knowing is one thing. Although Fichte could be asked to test an assertion
so outlandish, I will insist on the difficulty which he himself proposed, and which avoids
confusing the ideas. What would I do if I did not have the self-awareness? if there is to be aware
when there is no consciousness, no existence. Fichte that the self responds without conscience
is the self, in which case there, but that the objection is an impossibility,
as it is, without conscience. "Nothing is unthinkable, she says, without thinking
of his ego, as being conscious of itself, can not ever ignore their
own conscience.

"I repeat that these words do not loose the difficulty, it eludes them.
Now dispensed whether consciousness is the same as the existence, but
the fact is that we conceived a moment that I have no self-awareness.
Is this concept has been done before? that is, there was a moment
that I would not have been aware of itself? yes or no? Admitting that
instant, it also acknowledges that in the same instant I did not
exist, then there could not ever, unless he granted Fichte that I
depend on a superior and therefore admits the doctrine of creation .

If we admit that instant, the self has always existed, and conscious
of itself, then the self is eternal and immutable intelligence, then
is God. This argument has no outlet for Fichte. Here there is not the
distinction between self as subject and object is the self-conscious
with the consciousness that the German philosopher does include its
existence, and wonders whether this has always existed or not, in
the first case , the self is God in the second, or one must recognize
or admit that creating a being that there is given the existence of
himself.

[138.] Fichte recoils from the first result, and although God does not call I, gives its attributes.
"If I does not exist but as it gets, but not when it gets there and does not set when there .-- The
I is for me .-- But if he puts himself completely, as exists, it becomes necessary and there
is necessarily for me, I do not exist but for me, but necessarily
exist for me, (saying to me, I put my self).

"putting himself and being, are talking about me, completely identical. The proposition: I am, because
I put to myself, sounds like this: I am absolutely I am. "Putting
the ego and the ego exist, are completely identical: they are one
and the same thing.

The self is what so it goes, and he becomes what he is. So I am absolutely what I am. "The
immediate expression of the act just develop, would be the following formula: I am absolutely,
that is, I am absolutely, because I am for me, and I am what I am absolutely for me. "If you
wanted to precede science knowledge to the enunciation of this act; Here is little difference in what
terms should be expressed, the places I absolutely primitive and its very being "(Knowledge
Science P. 1 §. 1).

In extravagant language only one fact is clear, and is openly professed pantheism Fichte, the deification
of self, and consequently the absorption of all reality in the self. The self is no longer a limited
mind, is an infinite reality. Fichte does not deny it, "the self is determined by himself, is granted
to me the absolute totality of reality, because it put quite like reality, and no denial is put in
him" (2. P. §. 4. Letter B). "There are actually put into the self, the ego must therefore be
put as to the absolute reality as a whole (ie as a sum that includes
all other amounts and may be the measure of all) and even quite primitive
and , if the synthesis problematically just outlined is possible,
and the contradiction must be resolved in a satisfactory manner.

"Thus I put absolutely and without any condition as possible, the absolute totality of the world
as a sum on which it is absolutely impossible that there is greater and the absolute maximum
he puts reality in itself, all that is put in me, is reality and
what is reality is posited in the self .... "The notion of reality
is identical to that of activity, all reality is posited in the self,
that is, any activity is put in it, and conversely, all reality in
the self, ie self, is nothing more than activity, it is not I, but
as active, and inactive, as is the non-self "(Ibid.

D)." There is no reality but on the understanding, he is the faculty of the real, the ideal
is real in him " (2. p. Deduction of representation, § 3.). "The self is nothing but what he becomes,
is infinite, ie infinite sets ...." Without the myriad of self, without a productive power
whose tendency is unlimited and unlimited, could not explain the possibility
of representation "(2. p. Deduction of representation, p. 148 and 152).
[139.] Let's take a look at this set of delusions. The psychology part of
a fundamental fact: the testimony of consciousness. The human mind
can not think without being himself; the starting point of psychological
research is the proposition, I think: it is identity that speaks Fichte,
the self is the self.

Any thought from the moment that there is, it feels subjected to a law, the perception of everything
involves explicit or implicit perception of the identity of the same thing. In this sense,
the simplest formula we can express the law of our perception is this:
A is A, but simple formula so sterile, so that is not achieved by what it
intends to raise on nothing less than a philosophical system . At the
bottom of this formula, provided that it is enunciated, is involved
enunciating the existence of self, no one can state that A is A, if
there is a being in that place the relationship of identity.

For the same reason that the proposition A = A is true, it is necessary to assume an A, or
a being which exists. An ideal purely unfounded truth in a real truth,
is absurd as we demonstrated and explained at length elsewhere (Lib.

IV,
Cap. ^ S XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII, and Lib. V, Cap. ^ S VII and VIII). [140.] But the
existence of an ideal truth as displayed in us, that is, as it is
a fact of our consciousness, is not necessary but hypothetical, there
while there, but when there may not exist, and if not There may exist.

From the existence can not infer the need, the testimony of consciousness
is limited to ascertain the fact, but in this same consciousness did
not find any indication that this fact is necessary, that has not
relied on an agent superior, quite the contrary, the feeling of our
weakness, shortness of time extending to the memories of our consciousness,
the natural and periodic interruption in her experience during sleep,
all states that the fact of consciousness is not necessary and that
being that experiences it has started a short time before its existence,
and that he could lose, if leave to preserve the infinite.

The self that we feel in ourselves, is known to himself, stated, this word be , can not mean anything
rational, but the self asserts its existence, but this knowledge is
produced, who sits like monstrosity is bound to prove it.

[141.] In fact it takes all the serenity of Fichte to try to convert in science a set of absurdities
and extravagances such as we have seen. It was reserved for modern times having to deal seriously with
a system whose existence will believe with difficulty to read the
history of the aberrations of the human spirit.

Fichte's system is judged by all thinking men, and to make him fall into oblivion but there is no means
certain that exposing the eyes of the judicious reader. [142.] Established the necessary existence and
absolute ego, Fichte intends to demonstrate that the self comes the not-me, ie everything that is not
the self. "Not me but can not be called while in the self (in the
same consciousness) is as a self, which can be opposed. Not I must
be opposed in the consciousness identical, therefore the self must
be put there, as should be put there .... the not-me 'If I = I, everything
is set, is placed in the self .... The self and not self are both
equally products of primitive actions of self and consciousness itself
is a product similar to the first action of the self: the act by which
the self posits himself.

"Here, then, that not-self, that is what we call the external world,
and everything is not the self, the ego is born according to Fichte,
the distinction between one thing and another, is a pure illusion,
a set of relationships that the self is conceived and non-self as
a limited, but both self and the not me, are things that are absolutely
identical.

"The self and not put me in that they are identical and opposed by the notion of mutual limitation,
are somewhat on the self ( accidents) as divisible substances, made by me, subject absolute,
illimitable, to which nothing is equal and nothing is the opposite .-- Therefore all trials whose
logical subject is the self limited or fixed, or something that defines
the I should be limited or defined by something more elevated, but
all trials whose logical subject is absolutely illimitable I can not
be determined by nothing higher, because the absolute self is not
determined by anything, they are well founded and defined absolutely
for themselves' (1. p. §.

3). The following is the latest result of the system of Fichte, the ego become an absolute
being that is not determined by anything more in a taxable unrestricted and unlimited, in
an infinite being, God. This absolute subject originates all. "As the self posits itself as
infinite, is not directed rather than on the self, and its activity
is the basis and form of all being, the self is as infinite as their
business turns on itself, and in this respect its activity is infinite,
because its product is infinite (infinite product, infinite activity:
infinite activity, product infinity), here is a vicious cycle but
no, that is a circle from which reason can not leave, because it expresses
what is absolutely true for himself and as product, activity, agent
are one and the same thing, and will not distinguish but to express,
that is, only the pure activity of the self, only the pure self which
is infinite is pure activity that has no any object, which returns
on itself continuously.

"As soon as I put limits, and put in these limits, its power is not addressed
immediately put on himself goes on a not me who must be of opposite
.. .. How do I summarize this doctrine? in the words of Fichte. "As
the self is absolute, is infinite and unlimited, it puts all that exists,
and what he does not put there for him, and out of nothing.

Everything he puts puts it as the self and the self as he puts everything
he gets, and therefore in this respect the self embraces in itself
all reality, a reality that is infinite and unlimited.

As soon as I oppose a not me, it necessarily limits, and put himself
within these limits.

He shared between self and not me all that is put in general "(3.

P. Principles of practical knowledge § 5, II, p. 199).

[143.] So in a nutshell Fichte destroys reality the external world, making it a modification or
development of the activity of the ego, is it necessary to dwell
more on a doctrine so monstrous challenge, and that is without any
proof?

I think not: mainly, when you have settled on sound principles the
demonstration of the existence of an external world, and fully explained
the origin and nature of the facts of consciousness, without recourse
to such absurd extravagances (Lib.

^ s II, III and IV). CHAPTER XIX. Fichte SYSTEM RELATIONS WITH THE DOCTRINES OF KANT. [144.] I've
been told (Lib. III, cap. XVII) as the system leads Kant to Fichte, when it settles a principle
dangerous author never misses a bold enough to draw the consequences, whatever. The author of the Science
of Knowledge astray by the doctrines of pantheism the Kant provides a more extravagant than
has hitherto been excogitating. At the conclusion of his work said to have led the reader to
the point where Kant takes, but it could have said that Kant takes the reader where you left.
The author of the Critique of Pure Reason, turning the space into a purely subjective, it destroys
the reality of the extension, and opens the door to those who want to bring forth the whole nature
of the self, and by the time a simple form inner sense, leads to consider the succession of phenomena
in time, as mere amendments to the form of which I refer. [145.] But is it perhaps necessary to go
in search of deductions, when the philosopher himself in the middle its darkness and its enigmatic
language, it is still appropriate in the most strict this monstrous doctrine? Let us hear him
speak in his Logic as transcendental third section, which seeks to explain the relation of
the understanding to objects in general, and to the possibility of
a priori knowledge.

"The order and regularity in the phenomena, what we call nature, since our
own work: we do not find there, if we had not put us by the nature
of our spirit, because this unit natural, must be a necessary unity,
ie some à priori link unit of the phenomena, but how could we produce
a synthetic unity a priori, if there were in the early spring of our
mind subjective reasons of such a unit à priori , and if these subjective
conditions were not at the same time objectively valid, since they
are the foundation of the possibility of knowing in general an object
of experience?

"Who does not see these words as outlined in Fichte's system of giving birth I not-self, ie
the world, and does not give more value to nature than can be received under it I? [146.] Still
more explicit is the author of the Critique of Pure Reason, behold how it explains the nature
and powers of understanding. "We have defined above the understanding of different ways, we
have called a spontaneity of knowledge (as opposed to the receptivity of sensibility) a faculty
of thinking, or a faculty of concepts or of trials; definitions all that
well explained are not more than one. Now we can characterize as
the faculty of rules. This sign is more fruitful, and nearer to the essence
of the thing: the sensitivity gives us forms (of intuition) and understanding
rules.

This is always applied to observe the phenomena to find in them a rule. The rules if they are objective (if
therefore necessarily bind to the knowledge of the object) are called laws. Although we know
from experience many laws, these laws are not however only certain
individuals of other higher laws, among which the most elevated (to
which all others are subject) à priori from the understanding itself,
and not from experience, on the contrary give legitimacy to the phenomena,
and should for this very reason make the experience possible.

The understanding then is not simply a power to make rules, comparing phenomena: the legislation
is up to nature, that is without understanding, there would be no natural or synthetic unity
of the diversity of phenomena, according to certain rules. Because the phenomena as such, can
not exist outside of us, on the contrary only exist in our sensibilities, but this knowledge as an
object of experience, with all that it can contain, is possible only in the unity of apperception

.
 When within 14 miles of Baltimore, and already benighted,
we were told we could not proceed, on account of some accident to a luggage-tram that was coming
up. The engine, or (as the Americans invariably say) the "locomotive," had got off the rail,
and torn up the ground in a frightful manner; but no one was hurt. We were detained for 7 hours;
and instead of getting into Baltimore at 8 P.M., making an average of about 15 miles an hour,
which was the utmost we had been led to expect, we did not get there till 3 A.M., bringing
our average rate per hour down to about 9-1/2 miles. The tediousness of the delay was considerably
relieved by a man sitting beside me avowing himself a thorough Abolitionist, and a hearty friend
of the coloured race. He spoke out his sentiments openly and fearlessly, and was quite a match
for any one that dared to assail him. His name was Daniel Carmichael, of Brooklyn. He is a
great railway and canal contractor, and has generally in his employ from 500 to 800 people.
He is also a very zealous "teetotaler." We had also a Mrs. Malaprop, from Baltimore, with us,
who told us, among other marvellous things, that in that city they took the senses (census)
of the people every month. She was very anxious to let all around her know that her husband
was a medical man: she therefore wondered what "the Doctor" was then doing, what "the Doctor"
thought of the non-arrival of the train, whether "the Doctor" would be waiting for her at the
station, and whether "the Doctor" would bring his own carriage, or hire one, to meet her, &c.

March 14.--The day on which we arrived at Baltimore was the Sabbath. In a public room in the
National Hotel, at which we were stopping, was hung up a nicely-framed announcement of the
order of services in one of the Presbyterian Churches. We wished, however, to find a Congregational
place of worship, and set off with that view. It was a beautiful day, and Baltimore seemed
to send forth its inhabitants by streets-full to the various churches. In the Old World I never
saw anything like it, nor elsewhere in the New, except perhaps at Boston. All secular engagements
seemed to be entirely suspended, and the whole city seemed to enjoy a Sabbath! As we walked
along, I asked a young man if he could direct me to a Congregational church. He stared at me
for a moment, and then said, "Do you mean a church with pews in it?" I asked another, "Can
you tell me where I shall find a Congregational church in this city?"--"What congregation do
you mean, sir?" was the reply. They evidently knew nothing at all about Congregationalism.
The fact was, as I afterwards understood, we had not yet come into its latitude; for in America
Presbyterianism and Congregationalism have hitherto been matters of latitude and longitude
rather than of earnest conviction and firm adherence. We now inquired for a Presbyterian church,
and were told that there was one not far from where we then stood, in which Mr. Plummer--a
very popular minister just come into the city--preached. Following the directions given, we
came to a certain church, in front of which two or three grave men stood talking to each other.
In answer to the question, "What church is this?" one of these grave men said, with a good
broad Scotch accent, "It's a Presbyterian church." The accent gave a double confirmation to
the answer. "Is it Mr. Plummer's church?" I continued. With the same accent, and in a tone
of gentle rebuke, I was told, "Yes, it is Doctor Plummer's." We entered. The congregation were
assembling. We were left either to stand in the aisle or to take a seat as we pleased. We preferred
the latter. The building was new, but built in the old Gothic style. The pews, the pulpit,
the front of the gallery, the organ, and the framework of the roof, which was all exposed,
were of oak, which had been made to resemble in colour wood that has stood the test of 400
or 500 years. The windows also were darkened. The whole affair was tremendously heavy, enough
to mesmerize any one. The congregation was large, respectable, and decorous. After a few glances
around, to see if there was a negro pew anywhere, I observed several coloured faces peeping
from a recess in the gallery, on the left side of the organ,--there was the "Negro Pew," In
due time Doctor Plummer ascended the pulpit. He was a fine tall man, grey-haired, well dressed,
with commanding aspect and a powerful voice. I ceased to wonder at the emphasis with which
the Scotchman called him Doctor Plummer. He was quite the ideal of a Doctor. His text was John
iii. His subject was, that "man is justly accountable to God for his belief." This truth he
handled in a masterly manner, tossing about as with a giant's arm Lord Brougham and the Universalists.
Notwithstanding my want of rest on the previous night, the absurd heaviness of the building,
and the fact that the sermon--which occupied a full hour--was all read, I listened with almost
breathless attention, and was sorry when he had done.

And who was this Dr. Plummer? It was Dr. Plummer late of Richmond, in Virginia. "Richmond,"
says Dr. Reed, "is still the great mart of slavery; and the interests of morality and religion
suffer from this cause. Several persons of the greatest wealth, and therefore of the greatest
consideration in the town, are known slave-dealers; and their influence, in addition to the
actual traffic, is of course unfavourable. The sale of slaves is as common, and produces as
little sensation, as that of cattle. It occurs in the main street, and before the door of the
party who is commissioned to make the sale." And what was the conduct of this Doctor of Divinity
in reference to this state of things? He sanctioned it! He pleaded for it! He lived upon it!
He was once actually supported, either wholly or in part, by slave labour! The church of which
he was the pastor was endowed with a number of slaves. These slaves were hired out, and the
proceeds were given in the way of stipend to the Doctor! Nor is this all. A few years ago the
slave-holders of the South were greatly alarmed by the vigorous efforts of the Abolitionists
of the North. On that occasion the clergy of the city of Richmond were not less prompt than
their brethren of Charleston in responding to the "public sentiment."' They resolved unanimously,--

"That we earnestly deprecate the unwarrantable and highly improper interference of the people
of any other State with the domestic relations of master and slave.

"That the example of our Lord Jesus Christ and his Apostles, in not interfering with the question
of slavery, but uniformly recognising the relations of master and servant, and giving full
and affectionate instruction to both, is worthy the imitation of all ministers of the Gospel.

"That we will not patronise nor receive any pamphlet or newspaper of the Anti-slavery Societies,
and that we will discountenance the circulation of all such papers in the community.

"That the suspicions which have prevailed to a considerable extent against ministers of the
Gospel and professors of religion in the State of Virginia, as identified with Abolitionists,
are wholly unmerited; believing as we do, from extensive acquaintance with our churches and
brethren, that they are unanimous in opposing the pernicious schemes of Abolitionists."

After this, are men to be branded as "infidels," because they say the American churches are
the "bulwarks of slavery?"

But what has all this to do with our fine-looking and dignified "Doctor?" I will tell you.
When these resolutions were passed, he was from home; but on his return, he lost no time in
communicating to the "Chairman of the Committee of Correspondence" his entire concurrence with
what had been done,--and here are extracts from his letter:--

"I have carefully watched this matter from its earliest existence; and everything I have seen
or heard of its character, both from its patrons and its enemies, has confirmed me beyond repentance
in the belief, that, let the character of the Abolitionists be what it may in the sight of
the Judge of all the earth, this is the most meddlesome, impudent, reckless, fierce, and wicked
excitement I ever saw.

"If Abolitionists will set the country in a blaze, it is but right that they should receive
the first warming at the fire.

"Let it be proclaimed throughout the nation, that every movement made by the fanatics (so far
as it has any effect in the South) does but rivet every fetter of the bondman, and diminish
the probability of anything being successfully undertaken for making him either fit for freedom
or likely to obtain it. We have the authority of Montesquieu, Burke, and Coleridge, three eminent
masters of the science of human nature, that, of all men, slave-holders are the most jealous
of their liberties. One of Pennsylvania's most gifted sons has lately pronounced the South
the cradle of liberty.

"Lastly. Abolitionists are like infidels, wholly unaddicted to martyrdom for opinion's sake.
Let them understand that they will be caught [lynched] if they come among us, and they will
take good heed to keep out of our way. There is not one man among them who has any more idea
of shedding his blood in the cause, than he has of making war on the Grand Turk."

So much for my splendid D.D., on whose lips I hung with such intense interest. I did not know
all this at the time, or I should have felt very differently. As he had but recently left Richmond
when I saw him, it is not at all unlikely that those fine clothes he had on were the fruit
of the slave's unrequited toil. He has always, I believe, stood high among his brethren, and
one or two excellent tracts of his are published by the American Tract Society.

All denominations are here alike guilty in reference to their coloured brethren. In this very
city the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church for 1840 passed the following
resolution:--

"That it is inexpedient and unjustifiable for any preacher to permit coloured persons to give
testimony against white persons in any State where they are denied that privilege by law."

Against this iniquitous resolution the official members of two of the coloured Methodist Episcopal
Churches in Baltimore immediately remonstrated and petitioned. The following powerful and pathetic
passages are from their address:--

"The adoption of such a resolution by our highest ecclesiastical judicatory,--a judicatory
composed of the most experienced and the wisest brethren in the Church, the choice selection
of twenty-eight Annual Conferences,--has inflicted, we fear, an irreparable injury upon eighty
thousand souls for whom Christ died,--souls who, by this act of your body, have been stripped
of the dignity of Christians, degraded in the scale of humanity, and treated as criminals,
for no other reason than the colour of their skin! Your resolution has, in our humble opinion,
virtually declared that a mere physical peculiarity, the handiwork of our all-wise and benevolent
Creator, is primâ facie evidence of incompetency to tell the truth, or is an unerring indication
of unworthiness to bear testimony against a fellow-being whose skin is denominated white. * * *

"Brethren, out of the abundance of the heart we have spoken. Our grievance is before you! The
bravest passed him, ignoring that cough contemptuous, but without daring to look him in the face.
After some time I turned around and calmly and said, laughing: - "I met Don Rosendo .-- How about,
did you cough? - I think, seemed to explode!" And Cabin in the running jokes and teasing grosser
held against our great patrician. One of them was on parade one after another at a distance, all
members of the party ahead of him. Don Rosendo was from that time without saliva and throat crushed.
Maza Gabino Only took him seriously and ensured that it would escape that ox (the word is hard,
but textual) to spit when he passed.

And indeed, Don Rosendo had hitherto refrained from doing so. I thought you had to keep certain
considerations to the head of the opposing side. But one night he brought his head a little excited
by the challenge of reading a two Yankees, the bump near the cafe in the Marina
with Maza, came up spitting on the wearing a provocative way.

That turned suddenly into a rage, and holding him tightly by the wrist, she whispered in a tone
mad: - Hey you, fool: I do not cough you or fourth degree of consumption! Do you hear? Don Rosendo,
as right man, very handy in these matters of honor, he said nothing at that time. But the next day
did not leave the house waiting for the godfathers of Maza, which,
fortunately for it, did not appear.

The challenge and the attitude of Don Rosendo, had, however, beneficial
consequences for the population.

Thanks
to our hero was born in her fondness for guns. Many of the most distinguished people began to
cultivate earnestly fencing. It was not just the editors of the lighthouse and the gatherings of the Club
whom were given to this noble exercise trained by M. Lemaire.

Also members of the Cabin, eventually realizing the importance of this art, set in a warehouse
adjacent armory. In front of it, put a replacement officer belonging to the cavalry, who had jumped
into the foil in Madrid. The immediate result of this advance was that the fights and that each step
is raised between the Club and the Cabin, were conducted in accordance with all formulas and ceremonies
prescribed in the code of honor. There maybe weeks passed without the town shook with the comings
and goings of the sponsors, rumors of the conferences at the corners of cafes, the minutes were
published immediately in Faro and in the newspapers of Lancia. For twenty quarrels ten and nine
ended with a record honorable to both parties, signed and signed by the sponsor. So those affairs of
honor, the only positive thing blows or punches were that the contestants were given previously,
notwithstanding that things take their ordinary procedures. Have another rarely, when tempers festered
too, would "the field". Delaunay saber was given to Don Rufo, insert a statement in the future of
Lancia, which said that doctors were turning their visit to the hospital at the time of order.
Folgueras The printer also had fought with a brother Marin, having denied the greeting one another.
Fortunately, none of the two meetings had been only whacked and welts. The most notable challenge
was to don Rudesindo with Don Pedro Miranda, who after hesitating for some time it had been decided
by the Cabin. The reason was "the problem of the slaughterhouse."

The occasion, as follows. Don Pedro had stated in a house that Don Rudesindo Belinchón supported
the party only because the slaughterhouse is located on the beach of Meanas, where he came
home injured. Cider maker was aware of this said, speaking pests in the Club Don Pedro, and was
deeply offended by this assumption, much more offended than it actually was. Alvaro Pena,
who was not happy but when I was a challenge at hand, hastened to say out loud with the arrogance
that characterized: - Lose you care, don Rudesindo. Miranda will give you a repair. Do you
want to leave my account? The good manufacturer would want to eat the words he had come loose.
Peña He was a man so expeditious! Why the hell had said he wanted to trip to Don Pedro to give
two kicks, when they had him leaving the house, and crossed to his
side without saying a word? But were there more than twenty people, and
was under the painful necessity of answering the aide, though less
aggressive in tone as possible: - Well ... if you think it's worth
... - Well, not to deserve!

Assume that you are not on our side but is insulting mobile selfish bastards ... A JEV, Don Feliciano.
Escuchaj Do you want a word? Don Feliciano and he conferred in a corner a few moments. Thereupon took
to the streets. Don Rudesindo was quiet in appearance, in reality highly altered and roaring
inside against Peña, against the Club, against himself and against
the mother that bore him.

What did
he need to get into trouble?

A married man with children, who all his life had done nothing but
work like a slave to carve a little capital ... And now that I had
... such a quixotic farfantón ... Case!

... The manufacturer could barely pass the sips of brandy from time to time introduced into the
mouth. The thing is settled soon. Don Pedro Miranda was seeing things with a visit to Peña and Don
Feliciano. He said he could not recall ... he did not insult any
of Don Rudesindo ... the contrary.

But Pena had tackled him, saying: - Well, Don Pedro. We can not hear
that. You name two people who understand us. The troubled owner named
Gabino Delaunay Maza and representatives.

Because of these, a man was hot and fierce, and the other ill-intentioned,
no compromise was possible.

Absolutely
refused to explain.

The launch was arranged a sword in the ancient cemetery in the early
hours of the morning.

Rudesindo to know Don, he cursed the hour that saw the light of day.

Its opposite Don Pedro was limited simply to be dropped on a sofa and order a cup of lime.
But there was no other choice but to go to where honor's name. At six in the morning, Peña and Don
Feliciano on the one hand, and Delaunay Maza and the other, they
were taken from their homes to lead the old cemetery.

My God, the old cemetery!

What ideas so gloomy fluttered through the brain of Don Pedro Miranda
as he walked over there! You can not compare them but they don Rudesindo
assaulted in the same way. Peña said before arriving: - Clearly, Don
Rudesindo, that you marinade. Heart tells me ... You will marinade. You
do not throw much, but has a game very difficult, very difficult!

... Manufacturer at the time had given all his property by having it not difficult if not impossible.
- Don Pedro has no leg is addition, short-arm ... But, as you know in ajmas nothing is certain
and sometimes they least expected, wins the water if you have something
to take care, do it before we arrive.

Don Rudesindo shuddered.

He
walked a while in silence, and finally, taking some papers from his
pocket, gave a hoarse voice saying: - If I perish, you give this to
Mr. Benedict.

Two tears welled in her eyes at the same time. - Mr. Benito el Rato? - Peña asked. Don Rudesindo
not hear him. He had escaped and the road ahead to hide his emotion. Why the name of his clerk
gave him such emotion at that moment, we can not explain it.

Perhaps in the great crises of life, living and sudden wake up sympathy in the depths of our being,
which we had no suspicion. The old cemetery near and to engage in farming, was a small enclosure
where the grass grew and weeds. The wooden crosses had rotted. No further testimony that this
place was abode of the dead, two skulls embedded in the wall formation on each side of the door. Indeed, these
skulls, did not produce a pleasing impression on Don Rudesindo. In Don Pedro does not know,
but one can suspect that it would be more favorable. It took some time to find place, for
the nettles and brambles prevented conveniently go and break the
fighters.

While Peña, along with the witnesses against, was engaged in this task very serious, the good Don
Feliciano Gomez made the incorrect (God bless her!) Of Don Pedro
Miranda approach, which faded, looking stunned, the stomach puddle
by the fabulous amount of cups of linden that had become night, waited,
leaning against the wall, that these gentlemen been completed in the
attitude of a person sentenced to death. - Hey, Don Pedro, cold, eh?

Wow what a morning! ... You see a man get up out of bed for this!

Válgate
God (Silence interrupted by some of the unfortunate belching Miranda.)
Would have given the little finger, little finger, yeah! not having to
attend such an atrocity. But they say it is a favor that can not be denied.
Well, that is not denied in the case of a serious offense ... Where
is here the grave offense?

Let's see, to tell me, where is it? Válgate God! Válgate God! (New silence and belching new Don Pedro,
which ends by bending the head on the chest, with the same resignation
that if put on the block.) How much better would be tucked between
the sheets taking the chocolate!

Eh, my boy? - Feliciano uttered, laying his hand on his shoulder
with great familiarity.

Miranda let out a guttural imperceptible. - You bet! - Continued
the trader .-- As much as I say, Don Pedro, I can not believe you
have desire to kill Don Rudesindo ... A neighbor ... has been his
friend until recently ... with whom he grew up and gone to school
... - No ... I win ... none - murmured Don Pedro, always with the
head on the block. - Velo you there! - Feliciano said giving a great
slap .-- What I said!

The same thing happens to Don Rudesindo, my queridín.

And then, let's see, who wants to kill here? Lets see what I say!
And glanced around, looking for an answer.

Peña,
Maza and Delaunay were far away and hidden by some cypresses. Don Rudesindo also lay leaning
on the wall, about fifty yards away. Then the dealer, by a sudden and heavenly inspiration,
beckoned him to approach.

Don Rudesindo advanced towards them slowly, shy and hesitant step. - You say, my boy, who has
no desire to kill Don Rudesindo? - Miranda asked the merchant. - None - he murmured. - Would you
by any chance, wants to kill him? - Nope. I've always estimated Rudesindo - stammered the owner.
- Eh? How? What did you say? - Feliciano cried triumphant exaltation with you .-- That much has always
considered Don Rudesindo, eh, my boy? Did you say that? - Yes, sir. - Tell me, Rudesindo (walk
a few steps to meet the maker of cider). Do you desire to kill Mr. Don Pedro here ... a neighbor
... Your friend has been until recently ... with whom you grew up and have gone to the school
of Don Matias Churro? - I, why? - said the manufacturer eagerly opening
his eyes. - Would you have wants to kill him by accident? - Neither
do the least damage. I've always had to be true friend. - How so?
Huh? For a true friend, right? ... Then, corresponding here, in my
humble opinion, is that you bear a hug. When he had said these words
Feliciano, when Miranda and Don Rudesindo, by a simultaneous movement,
advanced with ferocious momentum one on the other lifted mustered
the arms and hugged each other with such fury, that nearly all the
bones are out of joint in the thoracic cavity.

Don Feliciano at the same point was violently stripped of his hat,
revealing his huge bald spot in decline, frantically waved a few seconds
and shouted: "Hurrah!" does not know who, perhaps beating the god
had supplied him so famous idea.

At that time approached the witnesses. Seeing the scene stood surprised. Mostráronse happy with such
a solution in appearance, but each is separated by his side, and that
afternoon at the Club Peña Feliciano harshly reprimanded for his conduct.
He came to say that he had made a fool and that if not because it
was an old friend and someone older than him, "you would require jeparación.
- A repair! - Said the optimal Feliciano. - What does it matter that
required, boy! - Do you deny batijse me? - asked the bell-assistant
with his voice. - What we had to beat us? - A what you want. - "I,
to dance a tango or a-guaracha, my boy - he said, and saying and doing
started jumping around the room giving the castanets until his hat
fell off and the air was washing the stone head that was .

Partners leaping from the couches, laughing. Peña uttered some words of contempt, and withdrew piqued
and tasteless. The gatherings at the cabin, constantly harassed by
the newsletters of the lighthouse after it had decided to found another
newspaper in which they could take revenge for the wrongs done to
them .

Huge sacrifices that cost. Very few of them were rich. The only one who could be called so was Don Pedro
Miranda. This preference for a tooth to save him to draw back the purse strings. A lobbying
power of prayers, find resources here and there, doing addition and subtraction in the cabin, it
was concluded to obtain the amount necessary to mount a printing press. In the Folgueras, or
wanted to throw it to the newspaper, or humiliate them to sue.

Where was the press, very modest indeed, willing to work, celebrated
the feast indispensable. It was agreed to name the new body The Young Sarrio.
After dessert was provided with enthusiasm for their prosperity and
the destruction of their vile enemies.

The appearance of the first issue,
which brought the usual cartoon depicting a teen hair parted down
the middle, surrounded by a portion of canned food in the form of
books, reading attitude, more of a snack, one of them, caused a sensation
in the town alive.

He deserved it. The Cabin,
as men who had to eat for many months the insults of Faro, is vented
with genuine relish.

Rodillero Holy Christ, what a wealth of insolence and impudence! From the beginning to the end
was devoted to mock, to offend and ridicule the members of the Club.

It seemed that they lacked time to call an ugly, the other wolverine, beyond the envious, to rough
it, that one farfantón. Of course, under assumed names, but so transparent that nobody in the
population failed to meet them. Belinchon was called Don Quixote and Sancho Rudesindo gift,
Marquis of Tirapié Sinforoso, Peña Captain Cholera, etc., Etc. And
shielded with it and had brought them, the deck that was a blessing.

Let them not healthy bone. At night there were sticks (why not?)
In Rua Nueva.

Folgueras, who also insulted in the Sarrio Young, had met with Gabino Maza, and dumped him on the head with
a stick.

Maza it back with a vengeance.

Folgueras repeated.

It came to the aid of a typesetter who crossed there, and that his
brother.

In a moment he put together one of clubbing playing God on trial.

The Young Sarrio was published on Sunday. Periquito Miranda, that because of the disagreement of
his father with the Club, suffered a dangerous retention of lyricism,
significantly eased by inserting in it a number of sonnets, heal,
acrostics and other various combinations metric, designed to proclaim
his adoration Platonic the wife of the manager of the steel factory,
a francesota big and heavy as an elephant, which would have easily
put in his pocket.

We know that he loved Periquito solid works of Nature.

To express the desire that tormented his mind, was worth the ingenious form of dreams. The young
man Plato dreamed in verse that was in fresh delightful grotto where suddenly appeared one nymph
shapely arms and swollen breast (the wife of the manager) requesting
it to sleep on a bed of roses and green shoots.

Other times, he looked on the cusp of a high mountain.

In the groups of clouds, in the confines of the horizon, began to
take shape the contours of a woman (the wife of the manager).

The clouds were approaching.

The woman was white as snow field, morbid and beautiful as the flower of the magnolia. The beautiful
appearance finally reached him and snatched his arms in the blue
spaces.

Others, fragile boat sailing on the surface of the ocean. The boat sank and he was stopping at
the bottom of the sea where a blonde and beautiful nymph (always the wife of the manager) he clutched
a prodigious crystal palace, sat beside him on a throne of ivory, and invited him to enter into
marriage with her fair, which made, retired to the sound of sweet
music to a private room, beautifully decorated, where the nymph in
love made him keeper of her charms .

These dreams of happiness, in verse with ease and adorned with a poetic naturalism, caused some
concern to parents. Parakeet ate every day, and was getting thinner. El Faro, the number of Thursday
after insult with fury to the leaders of the cabin, "got it" also calling
him maliciously and stupidly Pericles.

Placed thus, a opposite the other, a fierce rivalry and perpetual, El Faro and El Joven Sarrio usefully
employed his columns in injuries more or less audacity, as fighting raged or loosened. Rare
was the number of each one of them who did not give rise to some blows or slaps, if not a formal
challenge. However, they were more frugal all. Sponsors itself is named for a twinkling of an eye,
but be a saber or shooting, it was another thing.

The race had inflamed the mood in the town.

Many people who had remained indifferent to the quarrels of the Club
and the Cabin, had concluded to take place in one side or another,
sometimes because they were tucked into the fray to relatives, others
by some old resentment, others Finally, no other reason than the warmth
and enthusiasm that the battle awakens in warlike tempers.

Soon the town was really split in two.

The side which was worthy Belinchón chief Rosendo, was the most numerous
and had almost all the rich merchants of Sarrió.

The cabin of the more modest, had the landowners and God-fearing and religious people whom He
had been shocked Faro. The fighting was so stressing that the short time they belonged to a party
no longer waved to the contrary, even if they had, until then, been good friends. The Light
and The Young Sarrio respectively began to criticize the style and
grammar.

Buscarons with bitterness on both sides of the faults of syntax, looking the same in the words that the
regime .-- "That word is not Castilian" - said the young .-- "The word disappoint, that the puppets
of Young Sarrio Castilian say it is not - answered the lighthouse
- we have seen used by the most eminent writers of Madrid: Perez,
Gonzalez, Martinez and others.

This time, as always, the body of the cabin has left the backfire. "Replied the young, contrarreplicaba
El Faro, citábanse paragraphs of the grammar, dictionary, of distinguished writers, after all
no one knew what to expect . And things were like before, although sometimes spoke of referring
matters to the decision of the Academy of Language. It quoted a lot on both sides of the Don
Juan Tenorio Zorrilla and the Articles of Curious speaker. This brought with grammatical competence
at least one advantage: the some people do not devote themselves had greeted with eagerness to learn.

No European astronomer could have made this observation, because in their longitudes the sun
would have set previous to the contact of the planet with its disk. I had the gratification
of furnishing these observations to Leverrier himself, who reported upon them to the Academy
of Sciences. The triumph of Leverrier was complete. It was after this that Arago, seeing the
characteristics of his mind, said to him, 'Take up the movements of the planet Herschel,--watch
them, analyze them, and tell us what it is that causes them.' Leverrier throws aside all other
employments, and gives his mind to the investigation of this subject. He begins entirely back.
He takes up the movements of the planets Jupiter and Saturn, and investigates them anew: he
leaves nothing untouched. Finally, after having in the most absolute manner computed all the
influence they exercise upon the planet Herschel, he says, 'I now know positively all existing
causes that disturb the planet; but there is an outstanding power that disturbs it not yet
accounted for, and now let me rise to a knowledge of that outstanding cause.' He did what no
other man ever had attempted. He cleared up all difficulties;--he made all daylight before
his gaze. And now, how shall I give to you an account of the train of reasoning by which he
reached out into unknown space, and evoked from its bosom a mighty world? If you will give
me the time, I will attempt to give you an idea of his mighty workings in the field of science.

"In the first place, let it be remembered that the planets circulate through the heavens in
nearly the same plane. If I were to locate the sun in the centre of the floor, in locating
the planets around it, I should place them upon the floor in the same plane. The first thing
that occurred to Leverrier, in looking for the planet, was this,--he need not look out of the
plane of the ecliptic. Here, then, was one quarter in which the unknown body was to be found.
The next thing was this,--where is it located, and what is its distance from the sun? The law
of Bode gave to him the approximate distance. He found the distance of Saturn was about double
that of Jupiter, and the distance of Herschel twice that of Saturn; and the probability was
that the new planet would be twice the distance of Herschel,--and as Herschel's distance is
1,800,000 miles, the new planet's would be 3,600,000. Having approximated its distance, what
is its periodic time?--for if he can once get its periodic time, he can trace it out without
difficulty. According to the third of Kepler's laws, as the square of the period of Herschel
is to the square of the period of the unknown planet, so is the cube of the distance of Herschel
to the cube of the distance of the unknown planet. There is only one term unknown. The periodic
time of Herschel we will call 1, and its distance 1, and by resolving the equation, we find
the periodic time of the new planet to be a fraction less than three times that of Herschel,
or about 220 years. Now, if it be required to perform 360 degrees in 220 years, it will perform
about a degree and a half in one year. Only one thing more remains to be accomplished. If it
is possible to get the position of the unknown body at any time, we can trace it up to where
it should be in 1847.

"First, then, let us suppose the sun, Herschel, and the new planet in certain fixed positions,
which we will represent as follows,--

"It will be observed that a line drawn out from the sun to the right will pass through Herschel,
and if continued will intersect the new planet. It is very apparent that, when these three
orbs occupy the position assigned them above, the influence of the unknown planet upon Herschel
will be exercised in the highest degree, and consequently that Herschel will be drawn farther
from the sun at that juncture than at any other; and if we know where Herschel is, when this
effect is produced, by prolonging the line through Herschel outward, it must pass through the
new planet. The delicate observations upon Herschel gave this result, and showed when it was
that it was swayed farthest from the sun. By taking the place occupied by the planet at that
time, and increasing it onward one degree and a half per annum, we can point out the place
it must occupy at any given period. In September last we find Leverrier communicating these
results to his friends in Berlin. They are provided with charts, on which every observed star
is mapped down; and if any new object presents itself in the heavens, it is immediately subjected
to a rigid scrutiny. On the very night on which Leverrier's letter had been received, we find
the telescope directed to the designated point in the heavens. A stranger appears, but has
only the aspect of a fixed star. Long did the eye watch that night, but no motion was found.
When twenty-four hours rolled round, and it was once more possible to fix the instrument upon
this strange body, it had moved in the precise degree and direction computed. The new planet
was found. The news spread with the utmost rapidity throughout the world,--all Europe was electrified,
and soon the intelligence crossed the waters. Our telescope was directed to this object. All
had hitherto failed,--no eye had ever seen it round and planet-like from its disk. The evening
finally came round for the examination. Time moved on its leaden wings; but twilight faded
away at length, and I took my seat, with my assistant, at the instrument. I directed the telescope
to that point of the heavens. I found four stars in the field of view. The first was brought
to the field of view of the instrument, and pronounced to be a fixed star; and so with the
second. The third was brought forward; and before it had reached the centre of the field, I
heard the exclamation, 'There it is!' and there it was, as bright and beautiful as Jupiter
himself. Here was a result not attained by any other instrument in the world. When we know
that a body is a planet, then, and not till then, do we find the disk. The great rival of our
instrument had seen it, but did not recognise it.

"Before five minutes had elapsed, the micrometical wires pronounced its diameter to be 40,000
miles. Here were results such as no previous one had attained, I mention it, because I think
it is right that our own country, which has but just commenced its career in this science,
should know what is her due; and I trust the day is not far distant when we shall become as
distinguished for our proficiency, for our learning, for our researches, and for our efforts
in behalf of Astronomy, as we have hitherto been for our profound neglect of everything belonging
to this sublime science."

So much had been recently said in England about the "Negro Pew" in Dr. Patton's Church that
I naturally felt curious to see it for myself, resolving (if possible) to sit in it. On Sabbath
morning the 21st of March I set off with my wife on this errand, taking for our guide as to
the precise position of the "locality" Mr. Page's "Letter of Apology,"--in which it was stated
that in that church they treated the coloured people well; that they were elevated above the
rest of the congregation, and nearer heaven; and, finally, that they occupied a position of
honour, being on the right hand of the minister, as Jesus Christ was on the right hand of God! Favorable
effects which caused the immediacy and presence of troops from Lima, so truly, that the defenders
were immediate and far to experience the needs and dangers and the lack of ammunition and ammunition,
as having been frustrated all hope of receiving relief from the cities of La Paz and Arequipa.
The first, because everything needed to attend to their own needs and defense, and second, by refusing
to give their mayor entirely, D. Baltazar Senmanat. Free at last of all garrison and neighborhood of the town
of Puno Day May 24, 1781, and the glory that they were spectators
of their resistance, the troops of the viceroyalty of Lima, fields
a mile away, only remained to choose the means for their preservation
and security.

I thought the Commanding General, D. José del Valle, follow the marches with the army under his
command toward the other provinces who were rebellious in the jurisdiction of Buenos Aires, sugetarlas
and assist the City of Peace, he learned that on this occasion the siege had a considerable number
of rebels, Apasa led by Julian, Tupac Katari: but many very poderosass
reasons keep you from doing this project, being among the most powerful,
significant defection of his troops was increasing every day: however
they knew of some not freed some fall into the hands of the enemy,
either to save life, providing in this way the discretion of swell
their forces with weapons that were seized; ills that had increased considerably
after it was disclosed he had to move further from their homes and
expose not only to new dangers, but also to the rigors of the most painful
season of the year, and by the excessive frosts and by the sterility of the
fields to keep horses and mules.
 The gallery
was occupied by three classes of persons: the black people--about a dozen in number--on the
"right hand," the singing people in front, and the Sunday-school children everywhere else.
The regular congregation, amounting perhaps to 300, were all downstairs.

Dr. Patton ascended the pulpit-stairs with his cloak on, placed a manuscript "fresh from the
mint" under the cushion, sat down, took out his pocket-handkerchief, applied it vigorously,
and then gazed leisurely around.

The pulpit service commenced with a short prayer; then followed singing by the choir, all else
sitting silent. The tenth chapter of Romans was read; then came the long prayer, in which the
Doctor prayed for the abolition of slavery, and for the spread of the Gospel. The text, which
succeeded, was Rom. x. 3, 4. Having noticed the context, the preacher proposed--

I. To explain the text. (Here he examined very critically the meaning of the Greek word [Greek:
dikai-osunous], quoting Moses Stuart and others.)

II. To designate those who go about to establish their own righteousness.

III. To remonstrate against such conduct, as being unnecessary, criminal, and dangerous.

The discourse was sound and good, but every word read. The disorderly conduct of the children
in the gallery proved a great annoyance; and for all the solicitude of the ladies to get us
away from the vicinity of coloured skins, not one of them had the politeness to offer us either
Bible or hymn-book.

This visit of ours to the "Negro Pew" was immediately laid hold of by the Abolitionists, and
made to go the whole round of their papers as a "testimony against caste." This provoked into
action the prolix pen of the celebrated Mr. Page, who wasted on the subject an immense quantity
of ink and paper. "Page" after page did he pen; continued to do so, to my certain knowledge,
for about three months after; and, for aught I know to the contrary, he may be paging away
to this very day. This commotion answered my purpose exceedingly well,--my object being to
bear testimony against the impiousness of such a distinction and separation in the house of
God. It is, however, but justice to Dr. Patton to observe that the case is not singular, the
peculiar celebrity of his "Negro Pew" arising entirely from the imbecile and somewhat profane
apology volunteered by Mr. Page. In point of fact, Dr. Patton and his people, as I ascertained
in conversation with him on the subject, are rather in advance of their neighbours in kind
feeling towards the coloured people.

In the evening I preached by engagement for the Rev. ------, in the ---- Presbyterian Church.
It was pouring with rain, and not more than 150 persons were present. The pastor, who had visited
me in a very fraternal manner, kindly proposed to devote part of the next day to showing me
some of the "lions" of the city. The first place we visited was Mount Vernon, the institution
of the Abbotts. It is a seminary for young ladies, with 200 pupils. The first of the brothers
to whom we were introduced was John Abbott, the author of "The Mother at Home." He is apparently
40 years of age. He introduced us to the room of the senior class, which consisted of 30 or
40 young ladies, from 14 to 25 years of age. They were engaged in a French exercise with Jacob
Abbott, the author of "The Young Christian," "The Corner Stone," "The Way for a Child," &c.,
&c. The exercise over, we were introduced to Mr. Jacob Abbott, and were requested to accompany
him to a private sitting-room. I found him an exceedingly pleasant and unassuming man. He is
43 years of age, but looks younger. He wrote both "The Young Christian" and "The Corner Stone"
when he was only 25. John is two years younger than Jacob; Charles, to whom also I was introduced,
is younger still; and Gorham, whom I did not then see, is the youngest of the four. All are
ministers, though not pastors,--all highly intellectual men, and connected more or less with
this seminary, which is one of the best conducted I have ever seen. The pupils are not boarders,
but they pay from 10l. to 15l. a year for their tuition alone. I subsequently made another
visit to this institution in company with my wife, upon whom Mr. Jacob Abbott had very politely
called.

Mr. ------ intended to introduce me to Dr. Spring, but he was not at home. He then took me
to the Union Theological Seminary. In that institution about 120 young men are preparing for
the Christian ministry. The library contains twenty thousand volumes on theology alone--musty
and prosy tomes! Ah! the former home of D. Romualdo.

And to pronounce this name stood for a moment lela, completely idiotic.
- 'R'maldo lie - the blind man said. - Yeah, yeah, my invention was.

He who has brought so much wealth to be Mrs. another, a D. Romualdo
de paste ... creature of the devil ... No, no, that of paste is mine
... I do not know, I know.

Come on, Almudena.

Think you're bad, you need good abrigadito overnight. Juliana Sena, which is now cut the cheese
in the house of my lady, and all supplies ... in good time is ... has given me this hard. I'll
take you to the palaces of Bernarda, and tomorrow we'll see. - Tomorrow, we Hierusalaim dir.
- Where did you say? To Jerusalem? And where is that? Well, you want to take me to that point,
as it were, a supposition, or Carabanchel Jetafe down! - Luejos,
luejos ... Migo marry you and be a Migo tigo.

Dirna Marseille Marseille roads asking ... steam ... pim, pam ...
Jaffa ... Hierusalaim!

... Arreligión married for yours, mine ... arreligión do you want ... Veder you Sepolcro; enter
S'nagoga you pray Adonai ... - Hold on, son, have a bit of calm,
and I Marees with the inventions of your head delusions.

The first thing you wear is good. - Me being well ... c'lentura not me anymore ... contented me.
You come Migo always, mondo large walk mochas, freedom, sea, terra, LEGRIA mocha ... - Very nice,
but now I realize that you and I are hungry, and get to dine at any
tavern.

If you think, here in the Cava Baja ... - Onde want you, I want ...». dined with relative content,
and Almudena not stop to ponder the delights of going close together
to Jerusalem, begging for land and sea, without hurry, without care.

It would take months, maybe six months, but finally give their bodies in Palestine, although undertaken
by land to Constantinople. As there were pretty few countries to go!

Nina that she had objected and bones would be hard for so long, and Africa, not knowing how to
persuade, he said: "terra Ispani n'gratituda ... Running luejos,
n'gratos juyando of them.

"As they ate were collected in Bernarda's house, downstairs bedroom,
two real bed.

Almudena was very quiet all night, unable to fall asleep, delirious with the short trip to Jerusalem
and Benin, see calm, showed himself willing to undertake so long pilgrimage. Restless and sore, as
if the bed of brambles out punching, Mordechai did nothing but go from one place to another,
complaining of burning in the skin and bothersome itching, which were not motivated, that is the
truth, anything regard to the misery that is fought with insecticide dusts. This came perhaps
a strange turn took the fever, which was manifested in the morning in a red rash on arms and legs.
The scratching desperately unhappy, and Benin took him to the street,
hoping that fresh air and exercise will serve as a relief.

After wandering about asking, not to lose the habit, went to San Carlos Street, and went to see
Juliana Benina, there he had his clothes, and gave it a mess, saying that while it was managed for
collection in Mercy, is harbored in any house price, with or without
man, but he was best for their decorum, left company and treated
as indecent.

He added that as soon as either clean all the filth that had brought the Pardo, could go visit Dona
Paca, who joyfully receive it, but I did not expect to return to his side, because the children
were opposed to it, attentive to his mother was well served, and provided regularly. Yet it was
as the good woman who saw in it a superior irresistible. Juliana was not a bad person, dominant, yes,
eager to show the great gifts of government God had given him, a woman who would not let go of two tugs
fall prey into their hands. But not without love of neighbor, he pitied Benina, and having said
this that the Moor was waiting in the street, wanted to see him and judge him by his own eyes.
That the trace of the poor African seemed pitiful, met in the gesture he did, in the expression on his
face, and the accent with which he said: "As I knew him in this, to see him on the street asking
the Duke of Alba.'s a good point, and very much in love. Right, Mr. Almudena, likes you girls?
- Like my B'nina, Amri ... - Ajaj ... Benina poor, he has not been granted poor fly! If you do
charity, really say you're a saint. - The poor guy is sick and can not use. "And as the Moor,
seized with extremely violent Itchy arms and chest, his fingers
do claws to scratch to win, the binders came towards him arms, which
were stripped from the sleeve.

"What has this man - said to fear - is leprosy ... Jesus, what leprosy
Benina sign!

I
have seen another case: one poor, the Moro also beggar him, he Oran, calling at Puerta Cerrada,
next to the workshop of my stepfather. And he was so lost, that Christian had not approached him,
and neither Hospitals Saints wanted him to receive ... "Chop, chop mocha - Almudena was all
he said, turning the nail from the shoulder to the hand, as would
a comb through the tangle.

Hiding his disgust, not hurt the unhappy pair, Juliana said Nina: "Well, no you have fallen ill concern
with this guy! Look at that scab sticks. Good are you going to put,
yes ma'am, good, nice and cheap ... Or are you more stupid than to
cook the butter, or do not know what it is you ".

With Nina looks no more expressed their pity the poor blind man,
his decision not to leave him, and compliance with all the calamities
that God would send . And in this, Antonio Zapata, who was returning
home, saw his wife in the group, came up to her hurriedly, and aware
of what they said, advised to take the Moor Benina the dermatological
disease clinic in San Juan God.

"Plus account you have - said Juliana - send to their land. - Luejos,
luejos - Almudena said -.

Dir Hierusalaim us. - Not bad.

'From Madrid to Jerusalem, or the family of Uncle Maroma ...'.

Well,
well. For another thing, my little woman, not hit and listen.

I could not do your assignments, because ... I tell you no hit. - Because you've gone to the
pool, rogue ... Up, up, and settle accounts. - Not because I have to climb
back to the cars of pathetic. - What, you rascal? - Not the car is
going great for less than forty real, and as I commanded that no thirty
... pass - Will I have to see it.

These men do not serve more than a nuisance, do you, Nina? - Truth. What is it? Mrs. Will moved?
- Yes, a woman, but it may not be until tomorrow, because this stupid
husband God has given me, came before the eight to take the house
and alert the car, and you can see what pick up time is here, with
all the roots, without having done anything. - Pretty've run, girl:
At nine o'clock I went home mom with the contract for his signature.

You see if we won time. But you know I've lost Frasquito Ponte, who has given us a tremendous Tabarra?
As we had to take him home with great Polidura and I work.

God, how is the man, and what noise is in the head from the thud
of yesterday.

"Benina and Juliana also interested in good or bad fortune of the
son of Algeciras, attentive heard that Antonio told them of the consequences
funestísimas the fall of the rider on the road to Brown.

When I saw on the ground, fired by the pony, they all thought at that critical moment was over the
poor knight's mortal existence.

But the lift, Frasquito recovered, as if resurrected, movement and speech, and claims to have
received head injury, which was the most sensitive, and felt in different
parts of the skull, said: "No, no, gentlemen , Touch me and not find
the slightest bump.

"arms and legs, if at first seemed to have gone with luck, it probably had no broken bones, a little
jump-start limping horribly on her left leg, an effect undoubtedly the violent impact against
the ground. But the strangest thing was that, when stood and broke into a speech incoherent,
impetuous, his face red as a tomato, vibrant and broken language.
They took him to his home by car, believing that a complete rest
will restore; frotáronle whole body with arnica, he went to bed, went
... But damn, as he told them after the landlady, as soon as he was
alone, dressed herself hastily, and fell to the street was home to
Boto, and he stayed there until very late, getting to everyone, and
bringing about intemperate insults the peaceful parishioners.

As this was contrary to natural Frasquito placid, and his timidity
and good education, which certainly had serious brain disturbance,
because of the bump.

It is not known where he spent the rest of the night: Believed to
have been rioting in the streets of south Grande and Chica.

The fact is that shortly after arriving Polidura Antonio and home of Dona Francisca, entered Frasquito
very agitated, flushed face, bright eyes, and with great surprise and dismay of the ladies,
began to drop from his mouth , a little crooked, outrageous nonsense.

Combining skill with strength, could get there and return to your
home, where they left him, charging the patron that bind him if he
could, and to do for feeding.

Among other monomaniacal toughness, had the honor of being sued to
demand explanations for the unprecedented affront Moor presumably
to say in public that he Frasquito Benina made the cut.

More than twenty times he pulled into the street of Grande south,
trying to see Mr. de Almudena, determined to deliver your card, but
the African ran the package and would not let anyone see it anywhere.

Clear: she had gone to his country, fleeing from the fury of Ponte
... but he was determined not to stop until I discover, and pushing
to meet a gentleman, but he hid in the farthest corner of Atlas.

"If you
came my trouser Bunites - Moor said laughing so loudly, that the
ends of his mouth is hooked on the ears - to me he kicks mochas. -
D. Poor Frasquito ... wretched, soul of God! - Nina exclaimed, clasping
his hands -.

I was afraid to stop in this ... - phantom brave! - Said Juliana -.

What about us do we care that this old wallpaper is chifle chifle or not? Do you know what I
say? Well, all that comes from drugs that are placed on the face, which are poisonous and attack
the sense. Come, do not waste time.

Antonio, go back to Imperial Street, tell them to prepare everything, and I go to the car to see
if I fix this afternoon. Nina, go with God, and care not hit you ... You know? Oh, dear, shall
cling, even toilet that you have! See? and begin to suffer the consequences of bad step ... by ignoring me.
Doña Paca told me that I let you go there. He wants to see: poor
lady!

I gave my
consent, and take you thought today ... but I dare not, dear, I do not dare. Having in between
this plague, can not Rozart ... I had found that out every day to collect leftover food in the house
that was your mistress. - And no ... - Yes, yes, food is yours ... but ... see what to do ... you
get to the portal at the time that I set, and my cousin Hilary will bring it down and I will give
... coming at you as little as possible ... You understand ... each has
its qualms ... Not all stomachs are like yours, Nina, bombproof ... that ...
- I understand ... Lady Juliana. Stay with God. "XL Adversity and crashed
in the heart of Benin, as the vague waves in the rugged cliff.

Rompíanse with noise, are shattered, crumbled to white foam, and nothing else. Rejected by the family
he had sustained in saddest days of untold misery and pain, quickly recover from the profound
embarrassment that caused him so notorious ingratitude, his conscience gave him unspeakable consolation:
he looked at life from the height that his contempt for put human vanity, saw the ridiculous smallness
beings around her, and her spirit was strong and big.

He had reached the glorious triumph felt victorious, having lost the battle in the material. But the
intimate joys of victory not deprived of his gift of government, and attentive to material things,
came in a little while to deviate from Juliana, to solve the most urgent as the life both body concerned.
It was essential to seek shelter, then try to cure your scabies Mordechai or whatever, then leave
him in such pitiful condition she would not for anything in the world, although she saw the
disgusting infected wrong. He went with him to Santa Casilda, and finding the small room vacated by the
Moors occupied with Petra, he took it. Happily, the drunk was gone with Diego to live in the
Cava de San Miguel, behind the ladder.

Installed in one cache, which was not without comforts , the first thing he did was bring the
old Pascuala water, all the water he could, and wash and body soap, an ancient custom in her
that whenever she could practice at home of Dona Francisca. Then he dressed in clean. Wellbeing
the toilet and gave freshness to your body, somehow blended with the rest of his conscience, in which
he also felt something like absolute cleanliness and freshness comforting. then devoted himself
to the settlement of the house, and with the little money had made his
purchase, and made her a good meal Mordechai. They planned to bring
the consultation the next day and told him so, showing the blind
according to all with what she wanted the will to determine.

While they ate, entertained and encouraged him with hopes and sweet, offering to go as he wished, to
Jerusalem or a little further, as back to health. Until we remove the rash had not to think about travel.
It would still, at home, she going to ask for one every day to see get to live on, surely God would
not let them starve. So pleased the blind, the plan conceived and proposed by his clever friend,
and with his affectionate expressions, which began to sing the melody
arabic Benina already heard him on the site, but as to escape the
stoning had lost the small guitar could not accompanied by the son
of that rough instrument.

After his partner proposed to cast the incense, and she did willingly, because the smog and
flavored saneaba poor room.

They left the next day for consultation, but as they nominate for this one afternoon, entertained
the pordioseando first half of the day in various streets, always
with great care for the chili, not to fall again in the hands of those
who cast the tie to beggars, as if they were dogs, to bring the deposit,
which treat them like dogs.

It must be said that the ungrateful not come from Doña Paca Nina woke up in hatred or ill will,
and that the compliance of this with ingratitude kept his desire to see the unhappy lady,
whom he dearly wanted, as a partner of bitterness in many years. He longed to see her, even if from
afar, and brought this haunt, it was the street for a glimpse of Lettuce discreet distance if the family
was in the process of moving or had moved already.

What time was! He was in the car door, and the boys they put stuff in it with the savage speed that
used in this operation. From his vantage point Benina recognized furniture decrepit, crippled
and could not suppress his excitement at the sight. It was almost his, most of their lives,
and they saw, as in a mirror, the image of their pain and joy, thinking that if approached, the poor
tackle had to say something, or cry with her. But what was strongly impressed to see out the
portal and Obdulia Doña Paca, with Polidura and Juliana, as if they
were to the new house, while the servants remained elegant in the
former, providing for collection and transportation of offal , and
all trash home.

Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being
seen.

Found that deteriorate Dona Francisca! He wore a new dress, but so heinous appearance, cut
and sewn as quickly that the poor lady appeared dressed in alms. Covered his head with a blanket,
and held a sombrerote Obdulia with deformed flourish and feathers. Doña Paca walked slowly,
staring at the floor, overwhelmed, sad, as if the lead among civil
guards.

The girl was laughing and chatting with Polidura.

Behind Juliana was herding them all, and ordered him to be in a hurry
by the way that marked them.

No more than he needed the stick to look like that on Christmas Eve the streets leading flocks of turkeys.
How thinning despotism even in his slightest movement! Doña Paca was the humble response that
goes where the lead, even at the slaughterhouse, Juliana and the shepherd who leads. Disappeared in
the Plaza Mayor, the Street Landing ... Benina took steps to see the sad cattle, and when
you lost sight, he wiped the tears flooding her face. "Poor dear lady! -
Said the blind man as he met with -. I love her as a sister, because
together we spent many penalties. I was all for it, and it all for
me.

I forgave my faults, and I forgave their own ... How sad it is, perhaps thinking of how badly
he has behaved with Nina! He seems to be worse than rheumatism, so lame, and his face is not eaten in four
days. I brought it cherry-picked, I cheated on her with good shade, hiding our misery, and putting
my face in shame for feeding as it was his taste and custom ... In short, the past, as he said the
other, it happened. Come on, Almudena, come away, and God put you well soon to take the little road
to Jerusalem, which does not scare me as by far. Walking, walking, son, you
come from a part of the world to another, and if on the one hand
we get the benefit of fresh air and see new things, on the other we
get the assurance that everything is the same, and that the parties
the world is a guess, as the world together, meant that wherever people
live, or for instance, women will ingratitude, selfishness, and ones
that send to others and they caught the will.

We must do what conscience commands us, and let them fight those for
a bone, like dogs, the other over a toy, as children, or those by
bully, like the elderly, and not to quarrel with anyone and take what
God put forward as the birds ... Let's go to the hospital, and do
not be sad. - not just me - said Almudena -; be satisfied tigo ...
you know how things tudas God, and I quiri Bunites you as Angela ...
And if you do not want to marry me, this be your mother mine, and
I yours Bunites child. - Well, man, I think very well. - And you com
palm desert D'Granda, Bunites; you zucena branca com ... Illyricum
you ... Amri you telling me: my soul.

" As I was the unhappy pair Hospital Road, Doña Paca and his entourage,
in a different direction, they approached their new home, Orellana
street: a third clean, crisp paper and stucco, good lighting, ventilation,
excellent cuisine and Price accommodated to the circumstances.

It seemed too good to Dona Francisca, when up came, smothered by
the endless stairs, and if he felt bad, careful not to show it, abdicating
at all his will and his opinions.
 As a minister,
I have been called to pass often up and down the North River in steam-boats. Many a night I
have walked the deck, and not been allowed to lie down in a bed. Prejudice would even turn
money to dross when it was offered for these comforts by a coloured man. Thus prejudice scourges
us from the table; it scourges us from the cabin, from the stage-coach, from the bed. Wherever
we go, it has for us bolts, bars, and rods."

And now let us attend the speaker's funeral. Professor Whipple will be our guide. As we proceed,
crowds of coloured people are hastening in the same direction from all quarters. We are at
the house. But so great is the throng that it is impossible to get in. Here, however, comes
Dr. Cox. "Make room for Dr. Cox!"--"Make room for Dr. Cox!" is now heard on every hand. A path
is opened for the great man, and we little men slip in at his skirt. On reaching the room where
the remains of the good man lie, we find Dr. Patton and the Rev. Mr. Hatfield. They and Dr.
Cox are there in a semi-official capacity, as representing the Presbytery with which Mr. Wright
was connected. Louis Tappan, the long-tried and faithful friend of the coloured race, is there
also. I am asked to be a pall-bearer: without at all reflecting on the duties and inconveniences
of the office, I good-naturedly consent. A white cotton scarf is instantly thrown over my shoulder.
There is the coffin; and there is a lifelike portrait of Mr. Wright hung up against the wall,
and looking as it were down upon that coffin. But you can see the face of Mr. Wright himself.
The coffin-lid is screwed down; but there is a square of glass, like a little window, just
over the face, as is generally the case in America, and you can have a view of the whole countenance.

A black man reads a hymn, and, in connection with it, begins an address in a very oracular
style, and with very solemn pauses. A hint is given him not to proceed. They sing. Mr. Hatfield
delivers an appropriate address. A coloured minister prays, sometimes using the first person
singular, and sometimes the first person plural; also talking about the "meanderings of life,"
and a great deal of other nonsense.

We move down stairs. The immense procession starts. Drs. Cox and Patton, Mr. Hatfield, and
about half-a-dozen more white ministers, are in it. As we pass on from street to street, and
from crossing to crossing, all sorts of people seem to regard the procession with the utmost
respect. The cabmen, 'busmen, and cartmen behave exceedingly well. But did you overhear what
those three or four low dirty men said as we approached? I am ashamed to tell, because those
men are not Americans, but Irishmen,--"Here comes the dead nigger!" The boys, now and then,
are also overheard counting how many white men there are in the procession.

We are now at the church. After much delay and difficulty we enter. The place, which is not
large, is crammed. There must be about 600 people in. Dr. Cox urges them to make room for more,
and says there are not more than one-tenth in of those who wish to enter. If so, there must
be a concourse of 6,000 people, and not more than twenty whites among them all!

A coloured man gives out a hymn. Dr. Cox reads the Scriptures, and makes a few remarks. Dr.
Patton delivers an oration. In that oration, while speaking of Mr. Wright's anti-slavery feelings
as being very strong, he adds, with very questionable taste, "But at the same time our brother
had no sympathy with those who indulged in denunciation, wrath, and blackguardism. He would
never touch the missiles which none but scoundrels use." What a selection of words in a funeral
oration! In speaking of Mr. Wright's labours in connection with that church for fifteen years,
he says, "Our brother had difficulties which other men have not. Two or three years ago he
had to trudge about the city, under the full muzzle of a July or August sun, to beg money in
order to extricate this place from pecuniary difficulties. On one occasion, after walking all
the way to the upper part of the city to call upon a gentleman from whom he hoped to receive
a donation, he found that he had just left his residence for his office in the city. Our brother,
though greatly exhausted, was compelled to walk the same distance down again; for--to the shame,
the everlasting shame of our city be it spoken--our brother, on account of his colour, could
not avail himself of one of the public conveyances. The next week disease laid hold of him,
and he never recovered."

What a strong and unexpected testimony against that cruel prejudice! According to this testimony,
Theodore Sedgwick Wright fell a victim to it. But who would have thought that Dr. Patton, who
thus denounced the cabmen and 'busmen of New York, had at the very time the "Negro Pew" in
his own church!

While on this subject, let me tell you another fact respecting poor Mr. Wright. The life of
his first wife was sacrificed to this heartless and unmanly feeling. He was travelling with
her by steam-boat between New York and Boston. They had to be out all night, and a bitter cold
winter's night it was. Being coloured people, their only accommodation was the "hurricane-deck."
Mrs. Wright was delicate. Her husband offered to pay any money, if they would only let her
be in the kitchen or the pantry. No,--she was a "nigger," and could not be admitted. Mr. Wright
wrapped her in his own cloak, and placed her against the chimney to try to obtain for her a
little warmth. But she took a severe cold, and soon died. His colour, it would seem, hastened
his own exit to rejoin her in that world where such absurd and inhuman distinctions are unknown.

Dr. Patton's oration is now ended. But--did you ever hear such a thing at a funeral?--that
minister in the table pew is actually giving out--

  "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow!"

and they sing it to a funeral tune!

We start for the place of burial. But it is a long way off, and I had better spare you the
journey. The great men fell off one after another; but my pall-bearing office compelled me
to remain to the last. It was 4 o'clock P.M. before the solemnities were closed.

Now for an excursion to New Haven. We leave by the steamer "Traveller," Captain Stone, at 61/2
A.M. Wrap yourself up well; it is piercing cold, being the 30th of March. This boat is altogether
different from the boats on the Mississippi. It seems to belong to quite another species. It
is, however, admirably adapted for its purpose,--that of running along a stormy coast. In the
gentlemen's cabin are three tiers of berths, one above another like so many book-shelves. The
engine works outside, like a top-sawyer. We shall pass "Hell Gate" directly; but don't be alarmed.
You would not have known it, had I not told you. The Hog's Back, the Frying Pan, and other
places of Knickerbocker celebrity, are in this neighbourhood.

Let us go to the ladies' saloon. Well! I declare! There is a coloured woman, and allowed to
remain unmolested! Things improve as we approach New England, and are much better even there
than they were a few years ago.

But here comes the captain muffled up. He brings with him a poor sickly-looking woman, begs
the ladies' pardon, and bids her sit down by the stove and warm herself. He then tells the
passengers her painful story. The night before, in New York, this woman came on board, from
one of the Philadelphia boats, bringing with her a bed and a child. On being spoken to by the
captain, she informed him that she was on her way from St. Louis to her home in Massachusetts,--that
she had been fifteen days upon the journey, and had two children with her. On being asked where
the other was, she replied, "There it is," pointing to the bed, where, clad in its usual dress,
the little sufferer, released from the trials of life, lay extended in death. It had caught
cold, and died in her arms in New York. She was friendless and penniless, and wanted a passage
to New Haven. The captain had obtained a coroner's inquest over the body, purchased for it
a little coffin, had it decently laid out, and gratified her maternal feelings by allowing
her to bring it with her, that it might be buried in her village-home in Massachusetts. All
this he had done without money and without price, had also given her a free passage to New
Haven, and was about to forward her home by railway at his own expense! Captain Stone--"what's
in a name?"--at the close of this statement had to take out his pocket-handkerchief, and wipe
away a few manly tears from his weather-beaten cheeks, as he added, "I have met in my life
with many cases of distress, but with none that came so much to my heart as this." His object,
in introducing the woman and her case, was to make an appeal to the passengers on her behalf.
He did so; and the result was a subscription amounting to about five pounds sterling, which
was handed over to her. Captain Stone's was a deed worthy of a golden inscription!

It is half-past 11 A.M., and we are now at the landing-place in the harbour of New Haven, having
accomplished the distance from New York, about 80 miles, in five hours! We have a long wharf
of 3,943 feet to travel; and then we set foot for the first time on the soil of New England.
We have been invited to make our abode here with the Rev. Leicester Sawyer, who makes his abode
at Deacon Wilcoxon's, corner of Sherman-avenue and Park-street. Thither, therefore, let us
go. Mr. Sawyer, whom we had before met in New York, is the author of several books, comprising
two on Mental and Moral Philosophy, and was also lately the President of the Central College
of Ohio. Deacon Wilcoxon and his wife are plain, homely, kind Christian people. They make you
feel at home as soon as you have crossed their threshold.

Soon after our arrival the Rev. Dr. Bacon and the Rev. Mr. Dutton, the pastors of the "first"
and "second" Congregational Churches in this city, honour us with a call. This is brotherly,
and more than we could have expected. I noticed that her sister approached more closely than ever,
coming out very often leaning on the arm of her father, who adored her, but did not have
the same interests that she nor the customs of high society.

One
day I went to his house, and my visits were rare, he said: - Do you
want to see Mr. De Nièvre?

I think he's in his cabinet. He called, did advise Mr de Nièvre and
between us.

He was extraordinarily skilful during that visit, the first perhaps
he had made in the act of ceremony.

The Lord of Nièvre was more flexible, without leaving some reservation, we felt more evident
as it was becoming more systematic.

Almost alone held the weight of a conversation that every moment threatened to run out and leave us with
an open mouth. Thanks to that effort and skill will we represented the comedy came to the end without
fail, and gave no room for any incident that it's too shocking. Summed up to me this use of his
nights of the week, but without me, of course. - Will accompany me tonight? - She asked her husband.
- I ask one thing I think not having ever denied - said Mr De Nièvre rather coldly. I went to
the door of his office, leaning on the arm of her husband, upright,
confident that solid support.

I greeted her responding exactly cordial but cold tone of his farewell.
- Poor, dear woman - I thought of it while I was away .-- Dear consciousness
that have given rise to many fears!

And one of those reactions dishonor in an instant the best impulses, I remembered those statues
resting on a bracket that holds them in balance and that will inevitably
fall if they are missing that point of support.

XIV Augustine By then told me the realization of a project that honest heart that cherished since
long time, and you will recall that it was announced. Agustín I continued watching, not lost
moments, he was wanted on the contrary, and I was at my disposal
every time - and were common - they felt the need to dive into water
healthier.

Best advice I could give me, nor was it possible that I procured most effective consolation. He
never spoke to me - although my selfish grief of all sweating through
my words - but their way of life itself was an edifying example to
many lessons.

When I was very tired, very discouraged, very humbled by some new cowardice, was to him and watched his
life as he will take the idea of attending a physical force of fighters assault. I was not happy.
Success had not yet rewarded this hard and painstaking value, rather
than vile favors, but at least he could confess his failings and difficulties
that opposed him in those fights were not as active of those that
raise a blush to the face.

 It was not till forty years after the separation of Church and State in Virginia,
where the establishment was Episcopal, that the example was followed in Connecticut. Happily,
however, in 1816 all parties that differed from it--Episcopalians, Baptists, Methodists, Universalists,
&c., combined together, gained a majority in the legislature, and severed the connection between
Congregationalism and the State! There are old men now living who then anxiously and piously
"trembled for the Ark of the Lord." They have, however, lived to see that the dissolution of
the union between Church and State in Connecticut, as in Virginia, was to the favoured sect
as "life from the dead." The Congregationalist of the one, and the Episcopalian of the other,
would alike deprecate being placed in the same position again. But this is a digression.

We are still looking at these churches. The church on our right, which is about the same size
and of the same architectural character as the other, though not quite so showy, is the "second"
Congregational Church, commonly called the North Church--that in which Mr. Button now ministers.
This church originated in the "great awakening" in 1740, was formed in 1742, and has a history
of more than a century in duration. It arose from dissatisfaction with the ministry of a Mr.
Noyes, a contemporary of Jonathan Edwards, but one who had no sympathy in Edwards's views and
spirit. This man was, indeed, greatly opposed to the "awakening," and refused George Whitfield
admission to his pulpit. The originators of this second church, therefore, separated from the
original parent, availed themselves of the Act of Toleration, and became Congregational Dissenters
from a Congregational Establishment! They had of course no State support, nor were they "free
from taxation by the society from which they dissented." "The foundations of this church, my
brethren," said its present gifted pastor, in a sermon preached at the centenary of its formation,
"are love of evangelical doctrine, of ecclesiastical liberty, of revivals of religion. Such
ever be its superstructure."

Here, for a quarter of a century, lived and laboured Jonathan Edwards the younger. Perhaps
you have never before heard of him; neither had I till I came to New Haven. If you won't think
it too long to be detained here standing in front of the church, I will tell you a few facts
respecting him. He was the second son and ninth child of the celebrated Jonathan Edwards of
Northampton. His mother, too, was an extraordinary woman. You will smile at the impression
she made on the mind of good old George Whitfield. He had spent two days at Mr. Edwards's house
in Northampton; and he says, "I felt wonderful satisfaction in being at the house of Mr. Edwards.
He is a son himself, and hath a daughter of Abraham for his wife. A sweeter couple I have not
yet seen. She is a woman adorned with a meek and quiet spirit, and talked so feelingly and
solidly of the things of God, and seemed to be such a helpmeet to her husband, that she caused
me to renew those prayers which for some months I have put up to God, that he would send me
a daughter of Abraham to be my wife. I find, upon many accounts, it is my duty to marry. Lord,
I desire to have no choice of my own. Thou knowest my circumstances."

In quoting this, an American writer adds, "He had not yet learned, if he ever did, that God
is not pleased to make such 'sweet couples' out of persons who have no choice of their own."

Mr. Edwards, junior, or rather Dr. Edwards, was (like his father) a great scholar and a profound
divine. He was frequently invited to assist at the examinations in Yale College. On those occasions
he used frequently to display his strictness and accuracy by calling out, "Haud recté" (not
right). This procured him the sobriquet of "Old Haud Recté," by which he was afterwards known
among the students. Some time after his resignation of the pastorate of this church he became
the President of Union College. His works have recently been published in two large octavo
volumes. There is a striking parallel between the father and the son. They were alike in the
character of their minds and in their intellectual developments. The name, education, and early
employments of the two were alike. Both were pious in their youth; both were distinguished
scholars; both were tutors for equal periods in the colleges where they were respectively educated;
both were settled in the ministry as successors to their maternal grandfathers; both were dismissed,
and again settled in retired places, where they had leisure to prepare and publish their works;
both were removed from those stations to become presidents of colleges; both died shortly after
their respective inaugurations, the one in the 56th and the other in the 57th year of their
age; and each of them preached on the first Sabbath of the year of his death from the same
text--"This year thou shalt die!"

But we must not dwell too long on these historical incidents. I have told you something about
the Centre Church and the North Church. That Gothic building on our left is an episcopal church.
That white building immediately in the rear of the Centre Church is the State House, completed
in 1831. It is constructed of stone and marble, and forms a prominent ornament of the city.
It presents one of the best copies of a Grecian temple I have seen in the States. In the rear
of the North Church, quite at the remote corner of the Green, stands a plain barn-like Methodist
chapel. And, behind the whole, peeping through the elm-trees, you see the long range of buildings
which constitutes Yale College. Take it all in all, a view more interesting than that from
the spot on which we now stand I have never beheld.

Before I take you to "Yale," let me show you the spot on the Green on which, in 1745, Whitfield,
being refused admission to the Congregational church, preached in the open air, under a tree,
to an immense congregation,--so great at that time was the dislike to a fervid evangelical
ministry. But more than a century has rolled away; and how changed is the scene!

But, observe you that feeble, tottering old gentleman coming along the avenue? It is the Hon.
David Daggett, LL.D., late Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Connecticut. He is a member,
and, I believe, a deacon of one of the Congregational churches in this city. Twelve or thirteen
years ago that very man, sitting on the judicial bench, condemned Miss Randall to be punished
for--teaching a coloured child to read!

Now for Yale. The Rev. Samuel W. S. Dutton, the minister of the North Church, will accompany
us. This institution was founded in the year 1700. It derived its name from the Hon. Elihu
Yale, a gentleman, I am proud to say, descended from an ancient and respectable family in Wales.
His father, Thomas Yale, Esq., came over with the first settlers of New Haven. His son Elihu
went to England at ten years of age, and to the East Indies at thirty. In the latter country
he resided about twenty years, was made Governor of Madras, acquired a large fortune, returned
to England, was chosen Governor of the East India Company, and died at Wrexham in Denbighshire
in 1721. On several occasions he made munificent donations to the new institution during the
years of its infancy and weakness, on account of which the trustees by a solemn act named it
"Yale College."

The college buildings--which, like Rome, were not all erected in a day--consist of four plain
spacious edifices, built of brick, each four stories high, and presenting a front, including
passage-ways, of about 600 feet. That neat white house on your right, as you stand before these
buildings, is the President's dwelling--the very house in which resided Dr. Timothy Dwight.
But you are not looking at it. Ah! I see your attention is attracted by that student sitting
on the sill of the open window of his study, having in his hand a book, and in his mouth a
pipe of clay; by which, with the aid of fire, he is reducing a certain tropical weed into its
original chemical elements. Perhaps you think that rather undignified; and so it is. I wish
you had not seen it; but worse is done at Oxford and Cambridge.

Behind this range of buildings is another, a more modern and more imposing pile. This extends
in front 151 feet, is built of red sandstone, is in the Gothic style, and contains the libraries
of the institution. [110.] We are entering a very difficult question. If the idea of infinity in general
has serious difficulties, not under those presented by the idea of being absolutely infinite. We
found that there are different orders of infinities, each one a concept formed by the association of two
ideas: that of a particular being, and the negation of limit. But it is easy to take to see
that none of the infinite examined to now it is in full force of the word, all are limited in many
ways, none of them can be confused with the infinitely perfect. The idea of this being, but always
very incomplete for us while we are in this life is more susceptible to analysis employed by some authors
used without proper clarification. The many and serious difficulties we will have to drop in this
analysis indicate the need for deep meditation, and the significance of the errors that can lead to
the misunderstanding of the true meaning of the word infinite, applied to God. [111. ] What's an
absolutely infinite? At first glance seems to have explained everything to say that the absolutely
infinite is that which has no negation of being, but this is a general
notion that leaves much to be desired.

Indeed, the infinite being has no negation of being, that is a truism,
but truly such, and so superior to our reach, offering to our weak
understanding an astonishing confusion as soon as we set exactly true
meaning .

[112.] If being absolutely infinite, has no negation of being, it seems that nothing can deny
it, on the contrary, all you can say, because it will all, in which case pantheism comes from
the idea of infinity . If with respect to the infinite being can establish a negative proposition true, it
is a negation of being, that is, the predicate is denied in the proposition. No one can say
that when applied to God, negative propositions are deny only a negation,
because in reality are denied good things of God.

When I
say God is not extensive, deny him a reality which is the extension. When I say God is not
the universe, deny it a reality that is the universe. After negative
propositions applied to God, do not deny their own negations, but
realities.

The difficulty seems not to loose denied saying that these realities involve imperfection,
and therefore repugnant to God: This is very true, but now try to
explain idea of the absolutely infinite, and the difficulty militates
against the assumption that the idea of infinite absolutely want to
explain the absolute absence of negation of being.

If these realities are something when they are denied of God, they deny any being; and as the proposition
can not be true if God is in denial of being denied, it is not correct
to say that the absolutely infinite is that it has no negation of
being.

[113.] In addition, a being of this nature could not seem to have no property, for among the positive
properties are excluded from each other: the intelligence and the extension are positive attributes
that are mutually exclusive.

The freedom of will and necessity, are properties that with respect to same thing, are also excluded:
after being infinite can not have all properties, unless we make you a set of absurdities, the
manner of the pantheistic. [114.] The infinite contain all being as
imperfection does not include : this is very true, but we still remain
very difficult.

What is perfection? what's imperfection? behold, two questions are not easy to solve, and yet we can
not advance a step until we have fixed the meaning of these words. [115.]
The idea of perfection involves that of being, nothing can not be perfect:
a not perfect is an obvious contradiction.

  
  [116.] every being is not absolute
  perfection, because there are ways
  of being that involve imperfection:
                          what
                               is
                              perfection
                        for one thing, is imperfection for another. [117.] As finite beings,
the perfection is relative too perfect a factory would be a very
imperfect temple, a very proper paint for a luxurious salon, could
be a profanation if placed in a shrine.

Perfection seems to be to be a property leading to the end of the thing. This idea not applicable
to infinite, which does not and can have more purpose than to himself: after perfection in the
absolutely infinite, there can be relative, must be absolute.

[118.] If perfection is to be, it seems that the infinite must lie in some property,
who are formally the same, which in this case we must include not
imperfection.

                                        An absolutely indeterminate,
ie with no property, can not conceive what may consist of:
what would be a thing without intelligence, without
will, without freedom?

The propositions
in which these properties of God say, are true, then
the properties actually exist in the subject of which they
                                          are established.

[119.]
                                          An infinitely perfect being must have all perfection, what is everything
in this case? are all possible? What are the possibilities? which are not repugnant.
What concerns the reluctance? speaks of the mutual loathing, or of
disgust with a third party, if the first is necessary to assume one
of two extremes for the other to repel, in which case, what is preferable?

If we speak of What will this second third of which concerns the reluctance? What will build this?
If you say that all perfection means everything we can conceive, it remains the same difficulty
because if we talk about the conception of a finite being, the conception is not infinite, if that of
an infinite, they beg the question: for when trying to explain his perfections are appealing to
what he can conceive. To resolve the above difficulties, it is necessary to fix the ideas. [120.]
deny one thing from another can be in two ways: denial, referring
to a property or to an individual.

                                          If I say that an area is not a triangle, I can refer to the predicate
or to the kind of triangle in general, or to an individual triangle,
in the first case deny that the figure is triangular, the second
deny that the figure is another triangle given.

God is not widespread, denies a property here, God not the
world, here an individual is denied. Clearly, to attribute
to a being the absolute infinity is necessary both
with respect to properties to individuals, not denied
it no being as such, provided that the affirmation of the
predicate can be done without breaching the principle of contradiction.

This exception
is absolutely necessary, if not infinite being wants to become
                                         the largest
                                        of the absurd, as would happen if it could be said contradictory
things.

With this clarification I think you can somewhat explain the idea of absolute infinity, not considered
in the abstract, but applied to a being that actually exists. CHAPTER
XVI. AFFIRMS GOD IS ALL REALITY, CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN UNDETERMINED.
[121.] We have seen that our knowledge is of two kinds: a general and
indeterminate, other intuitive (Lib.

IV) through all of the objects known to us, intuitively or indeterminate, and see that no one
denies God, but they involve a contradiction.

[122.] The concepts are general and indeterminate being and not , substance and accident, simple
and compound, cause and effect. All that is real in these concepts
is affirmed of God. [123.] Ser, or something really existing states
of being infinite. What is not, has no property. [124.] Substance or being subsistent
himself, he also says of God. regardless of whether the ideas of
body and substance are applied univocally to God and creatures: this
is a question of schools, for my purpose I need only understand that
which applies when infinity the idea of being as opposed to that of
not being, and substance as opposed to that of accident, or as it
means something that contains what is necessary to survive on its
own, without needing to be inherent to other.

[125.] The idea of an accident can not be applied to the Creator,
but why it is not denied anything positive, before stating a perfection,
which is what does not need to be inherent in another.

This is perfection, is being, is the power of being; deny because the quality of accident is to remove
a denial. Moreover, just as he was credited with being substance, be denied the accident, these two ideas
are contradictory, not can be traced at once to a single subject. [126.] is said of God that
is simple. This is not to deny anything, and to convince us remember what this truth is simple.
Simple is the one (Lib. VI, Cap. II and III), the compound is a group
of beings, if the parties are real, as they must be for there to
be true composition, the result is a set of real beings, subordinate
to a certain law of unity.

When it says that God is simple, it would mean that God is not a set of beings but a being that does
not involve any denial, on the contrary contains the affirmation of an existence not divided
into various beings. [127 .] The idea of the facts, that is another activity that occurs in transit
if not to be, or be in a manner to be otherwise, is also attributed to God. This involves no
denial but an affirmation of being, since the cause is not just being
but a being of perfection abounds to communicate to others.

[128.] The idea of effect can not be applied to God, but this is far from being a negation is
an affirmation.

Every effect is a thing produced, and therefore went from not being:
denied because the quality of effect, is to remove the negation of
being, is to affirm the fullness of being.

[129.] What has been said the ideas of cause and effect can be extended
to those of necessary and contingent.

The negative proposition: God is not contingent is an affirmation, because the contingency is the possibility
of not being. To deny this possibility, is to affirm the need to be: what is perfection and fullness
of perfection. CHAPTER XVII. AS GOD'S AFFIRMS ALL CONTENT noncontradictory
intuitive ideas.

[130.]
All the positive that lies in the general concepts and indeterminate, it is said of God: the review
that precedes it puts beyond doubt. Let us see if the same takes as to
the intuition.

You are what touches to our understanding, are reduced to the following:
sensitivity passive, active sensibility, intelligence and will.

[131.] Passive sensitivity, ie the form in which are offered to our
senses objects in the external world not appropriate to be infinite.

This negative proposition, "the infinite being is not passively sensitive,"
is strictly true.

With this proposition is denied of God a good thing? examine it. The passive form of sensibility
is the extension, which comes necessarily the idea of multiplicity.
It is necessarily an extensive collection of parts: to deny the extension
of God is to affirm its simplicity, is to deny that is a set of beings,
is to affirm the undivided unity of their nature. [132.] Regardless
of the extension, there is no sensitivity passive objects nothing but the
relation of causes which produce in us the effects called sensations.

This causal link must and can be said of God: for it is true that the cause is capable of producing
infinite all sensations without requiring any intermediate. [133.] The negative proposition, the infinite
being is not material, "does not mean more at the bottom than the other: the infinite being is
not passively sensitive.

"The intimate nature of matter is unknown to us, what we know is that it is available in our sensitivity
and intuition to an object essentially multiple, in the form extension.

When they deny that God is corporeal or material, we deny its passive sensitivity, or rather its
multiplicity in the form of extensive. [134.] The other properties of matter, such as mobility,
impenetrability, divisibility and the like, are all relate to the extension or caused to any
particular impression on our senses. The difficulties that may arise are
as faded with the finding in the preceding paragraphs.

The inertia, or indifference to the movement or stillness, means a purely negative property
. The inability of any action, lack of domestic production first removal, the purely passive disposition,
to receive all that you want to communicate.

[135.] It is therefore shown that deny God or passive sensibility corporeal nature , is the
statement of your undivided nature of their productive activity, and the impossibility of having
any kind of move. [136.] active or sensitivity is the ability to feel, you have two characters should
therefore be separated.

The feeling is two things: 1. nd the disease caused in being sensitive to the sensible, 2. nd the
representation of sentient being in the interior of the senses. The first is purely passive, and involves
the possibility of being affected by an object, and therefore be
subject to removal.

  

This should not and can not agree to be infinite is to assert the immutability deny it, that is,
the need to remain always in the same state. The second is a kind of knowledge of a lower
order, by which his sentient being perceives the sensible way. Representation of all objects
must be of necessity in the infinite being, therefore everything
that is of intuitive perception, in the sensitive faculties, must
be in the perception of being infinite, I mean, everything offers
sensitivity external objects, everything moves to our interior of
what exists on the outside, everything has to be found in the representation
which has within it the infinite intelligence.

In what form are the objects to be the intuition of infinity? man
does not know, but it is true that this intuition is given to everything
that holds true in the sensory representations.

[137.] intelligence, or is the perception of objects, irrespective
of the forms of sense, encompasses something positive that is the
perception of beings and their relationships, but in us is often accompanied
by a negative circumstance, which is the lack of specific objects
that can refer to the general concept.

The infinite being that is in a single intuition all that exists and may exist, including what
is positive in intelligence, and does not suffer from the negative that is an imperfection.
[138.] As to the will, it is clear to be true of God, because the infinite being you can not deny
that intimate activity, spontaneous, called love, and which by its
nature does not imply any imperfection.

[139.] The will of God, though one and most simple , stands in need and free, as the objects
to which it refers. This gives rise to several negative statements whose meaning must be addressed.
They say: God can not will moral evil, this proposition but not, logically considered, is
basically yes.

God could not will moral evil, because his will is invariably fixed in the well, in that such
sublime of all holiness which includes in its essence infinite. The inability to moral evil in
God's infinite perfection of his infinite holiness. [140.] The will of God may refer to external
objects, which, being finite, are provided to be combined in different
ways, and whose existence or nonexistence can be suitable or not suitable
according to the agent who proposes that must produce and edit.

On these objects are exercising free will of God, and to say that there is no need to do this
or that, is not denied anything, before stating a perfection: that is, the faculty of willing or not
willing, or wanting this way or other, objects which by their nature finite link will not be infinite.
[141.] From this it follows that all reality is not contradictory
ideas in general, be indeterminate and intuitive, states of being
absolutely infinite.

As to individual realities (120) it is clear that can not be said
of the finite infinite, without falling into contradiction.
 De mortuis nil nisi bonum. Take
them for all in all, they were men whom we delight to honour. Here are some of their memorials,
dated so far back as 1657. Here too is the resting-place of Dr. Dwight.

As we return from this necropolis, the Rev. Mr. Sawyer points out to us the house of Professor
Gibbs. "Gibbs--Gibbs," said I; "what! Gibbs's Gesenius?" "Yes," said he. "I should like to
see him," I replied, "for I used at college his editions of Gesenius's Hebrew Lexicon." "Let
us then call by all means," said Mr. Sawyer. We did so; and a thin, spare, sallow, sickly,
withered, little old gentleman made his appearance. This was the Professor. He seemed as if
all the juice and sap of his constitution had been pressed out to nourish the Hebrew roots.
I expressed my pleasure in seeing him, and acknowledged the advantages I had derived from his
labours. The conversation soon touched upon the Established Church of England, of which he
seemed to have a great horror. "You ought to put down," said he, "that Establishment. You might
very easily do it." "We should be very happy, sir, to know how," I replied. "I will tell you.
Make thorough Hebrew scholars of your ministers. Let them be with regard to Biblical learning
quite on a par with those of the Establishment, and it will soon fall." I answered, that upon
the whole I thought they were in that respect quite in advance of those of the Establishment.
But I was amused at the good Professor's simplicity. He little understood the mighty bulwarks
by which that institution is defended. A little more of the article in which he dealt would
be just the thing to accomplish wonders! It was his nostrum.

To-day the annual election of the State of Connecticut is held. All the officers of state are
to be chosen, and New Haven is one of the principal polling-places. But how quiet the town!
The only thing that indicates an election is the presence of a larger number of people than
usual; and the only display you can see is that little bit of a flag, about 18 inches square,
stuck on the top of a cab, having on the word "Democracy!" Let us go into the State House,
and see how it is done. Men leave their stores or their studies,--enter by one door, drop their
vote into a box, and quietly return to their avocations. The students at Yale who are 21 years
of age do the same, and go back to their exercises. The whole affair is managed with as much
propriety as the election of deacons in the church at New Amsterdam. This is the working of
universal suffrage in New England. Oh that all America, and all the world, were in this respect
like the land of the Pilgrim Fathers!

And now we must bid adieu to New Haven. Many are the warm hearts and clear heads it contains.
The population is about 18,000. There are in it--

5 Congregational Churches, and 1 Coloured ditto. 2 Episcopal ditto     .    .   1       " 2
Methodist Episcopal ditto    1       " 2 Baptist ditto. 1 Primitive Methodist ditto.   1 Bethel
ditto. 1 Catholic ditto.             --

13 + 4 = 17 total of places of worship.

                                              DOLLARS.

The Salary of the Governor of Connecticut is  1,100
      "           Lieutenant      "    .  .     300
      "           Rev. Dr. Bacon   .   .  .   1,500
      "           Rev. Mr. Dutton  .   .  .   1,500

In the middle of the day, we leave by railway for Hartford, 36 miles off. Dr. Hawes is our
fellow-traveller. Coloured people are here allowed to travel in the same carriages with others.
It was not so, even on this line, three or four years ago, when the Rev. Mr. Pennington was
setting off from Hartford for England. He told me himself that he was obliged on that occasion
to travel in the luggage-van. On our arrival, we are met by Charles Hosmer, Esq., (a cousin
of Elihu Burritt,) an old and valued correspondent of mine, and of my predecessor Mr. Wray.
To both of us he had occasionally sent presents of excellent American publications. We must
be his guests during the few days we remain at Hartford. Dr. Hawes and Chief Justice Williams,
came in a homely way to spend the evening with us. The Chief Justice is a deacon of the Doctor's
church, and a teacher in the Sabbath-school.

The next day we were taken to see the Deaf and Dumb Institution. This asylum was founded by
the Rev. Mr. Gallaudet, who, becoming deeply interested in this class of afflicted humanity,
visited England and the Continent with a view to obtain information as to the best mode of
communicating instruction to them. I may also observe that he himself married a deaf and dumb
lady, by whom he has a large family of children, now grown up, none of whom however inherit
the maternal affliction. Commander, Lieutenant Colonel, D. Manuel Villalta. Second, Colonel of militia,
D. Matias Baule. His strength.

Infantry Andaguaillas Lima 100 300 Idem Idem of the Company's chief
Abancay Rozas 200 200 100 Idem Lebu faithful Indian Ink, Guarocordo,
and Senior Suritti TOTAL 2.000.

2.900 Fourth column. Commander, the Mayor of Paruro , D. Urruz Manuel
de Castilla. Second, the colonel of militia, D. Isidro Guizasola. His strength.
Infantry of the Spanish and Indians Cuzco 100 2.900 TOTAL faithful.

3.000 Fifth Column.

Commander, Colonel of infantry, D. Sunday Marner.

Second, the Mayor of Cotabambas, D. José Acuña.

Third, the Mayor of Chumbivileas, D. Laisequilla Francisco. His strength. Commander, Colonel D. José
Cabero.

Second, the Chief Justice of Paucartambo, D. Zelerio Francisco.

His strength. Infantry, Spanish and Indians faithful Reserve Corps
550.

Commander, Colonel of Dragoons, D. Gabriel de Aviles.

Second, the Army Captain, D. Jose Leon.

Third, the colonel of militia, D. Gabriel de Ugarte. His strength. Infantry veteran of Guañanga
Lima 300 200 TOTAL Idem. TOTAL 500.

15.210 ====== A more expressive of strength, two detachments were
used, consisting of 1.846 men, to take the posts of Urubamba, Calca
y Lares, with the aim of cutting the rebel withdrawal from that part:
and then have decided as appropriate and necessary for the subsistence
of the army, was set in motion the day March 9, 1781, with 6 guns,
supplies and ammunition for, and under what had been exposed to the
patricians of the country, was given the orders to the commanders
of columns, to run his way, in this way.

The 1. nd by Paucartambo Quispicanche and Ink.

2. ª Quispicanche the Gorge. The 3.

Nd by Orocoroco Heights, Quispicanche to Tungasuca and Ink.

4. Nd by Paruro to Livitaca, Chumbivilcas, Yauri and Coporaque Ink.

5.

Nd by Cotabamba, Chumbivilcas to Livitaca. The 6. Nd by Paucartambo, Altos de Ocongari and Azorayaste
posts, and the roster for the Highlands of Orocoroco.

Implementation of all the columns and the roster by routes indicated,
began at once to undergoes the biggest nuisance, and by the excessive
rain, hail and snow, which are very common in those high, rugged mountains,
as the lack of food, fuel and other aid, placing have closed communications
with rebels loyal to where people could and should behave: in whose
footsteps kept watch so that the troops arrived at King undergoes
the greatest needs, and were sometimes nswers to be victims of cold
and hunger.

But then with laudable perseverance were all these works, inspired
by the example of Major General and other officers to be seeking to
keep them vigilant, to repel the insurgents, who often tried to surprise
the camp, taking advantage of the sunrise: in whose glorious occasions
always got advantages, and rejected the attacks known example to the
contrary, they left in all the fields covered with dead bodies immediately.

These repeated victories all the needs and situation of the army grew
obstacles, and increased escaseses; of such a manner that considered
and D. José del Valle in a critical and sensitive situation, identify
a number of route for moving to Tinta, where he was the rebel headquarters
and parts of war and for this achievement down a ravine located between
high mountains, found a mild temperament, and so abundance of food,
which his troops succeeded in a few days to recover their past losses,
and continue the march comfortably: either with many difficulties
to overcome, and the narrow steps, such as by large and deep cuts
that the enemies were unable to defend , much less take advantage
of these or other advantages it provided endless those rough terrain,
which in many places inaccessible nature has made.

But were stubborn resistance in some places and less severe rookeries,
pursuing daily, right and left of the road, the march of our army,
particularly in the gorges, without neglecting to take advantage of
the darkness of the night to surround the camps and fatiguing, forcing
the troops to be continually under arms, feeling the fire of musketry
and cannon, which easily transportable and gambled with me everywhere,
being of small size and low weight. tolerating insults always the
rebels, and repeated threats to surprise the army, arrived near the
town of Quiquijana, after having suffered All the way some of their
artillery fire and musketry.

Those neighbors had been the most tenacious in the promotion and support of sedition, trusting no
doubt in the advantageous position they occupied, so that, as recognized
by the Commanding General, D. José del Valle, felt that it was necessary
to reduce use many days, and not make it but at the expense of much blood,
but the incompetence of the rebels, graduating the espugnacion that
post, can stop an army two months warlike and numerous, if he had been
occupied and defended enemies otherwise. But taken over all, decided to camp
in the vicinity, and of course was greeted with the fire of artillery
and musketry, which caused no effect, being stationed too far.

At dawn the next day, the priest's own people gave notice that the rebels had abandoned the
plan to meet at the main army Chief, José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, who was in ink, having cut before
the bridge to delay by all terms the continuation of the march to our troops, and also prevent
it pursued them and bite at the rear. With this announcement came the king's army in Quiquijana,
where the women had remained single and men, who by his age or infirmities
had not been able to follow others.

All benefited from the asylum of the temple, where many tears and signs of repentance, asking
forgiveness of their lives and the pardon of their homes and farms, that were not delivered to
the flames, as they deserved. All were granted, and only experienced the severity of punishment,
Luis Poma, Inca, cousin of the usurper Joseph Gabriel, Bernardo
Zegarra and confidante, who paid with their lives in a hanging their
heinous crimes. Given the more precise provisions in the town of Quiquijana
for security arrangement, our army marches continued without interruption
for days, and at the first camp the enemy had occupied the nearby mountains,
in whose absence had placed a cannon, and prevented many peaks in
the large and heavy stones, to which give the name of gauges, in order
to throw and precipitous to offend our own inevitable in a very narrow
canyon, near a river which had to wade precisely.

To avoid the danger 100 Rifles were appointed with all light troops Indian
auxiliaries Chincheros Anta, who was given the order to evict the
rebels three occupying advantageous positions on the crest of the mountain where
they were housed, whose attack courageously undertaken, and were fortunate
not only to achieve the attempt, but also defeat them entirely, in sight
of other troops waiting for the success of the event. The next day
it was reported by a deserter from the enemy, who had placed a battery
on the side of another mountain, the road immediately which was to
follow our army, and defended it 10.000 combatants.

Column was immediately appointed a greatly enhanced, so that, taking another direction, went round
the mountain and go up to dominate the rebels back, and the Commanding General with the rest of
the army set up by the plain: but to the average league had to turn to avoid another mountain,
and down to a very broad and spacious valley, where they could maneuver with more troops disengage.
After the rebels spotted loads of ink and Chincheros Indians who
had gone ahead without order, attacked them with greater boldness
and audacity. Gentlemen adventurers and dragons and Caravaillo Lima,
who had been the vanguard of the army, came to the defense, and this
motif was subsequently pawning the other troops with the bulk of the
rebels, and locked the action, they were completely routed , leaving the
field a large number of corpses, not to mention countless wounded withdrew
or were made prisoners, and even the same José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru
I would have been had it not been freed by the levity of one of his
horses, it set a hasty flight, and so stunning, that forgetting the
ford of the river which was to cross to go to Ink, threw it to swim
deeper, where he was very close to being submerged in water, and finish
in them their lives.

This accident and more dismayed over the mind of the tyrant, and determined without going through ink flee,
before implementing this resolution, he wrote to his wife in the terms most pathetic and melancholy,
diciéndules: come against us many very brave soldiers and we have no choice but to die. Were ignored in
the army these last particulars, without knowing them was moving again, to monitor progress with
the resolution to stay the night in ink: but could not be verified, owing to the river immediately
stopped the passage to the troops, being so large, that despite the
precautions and active steps taken by the Commanding General, D. José
del Valle, could not help choking her two men.

In this maneuver, always slow and dangerous in the army, was used the rest
of the day, and it was necessary to close the night camping in the
nearby town of Cambapata, distant Ink of a league, and our troops
the first nail tent stakes, broke the enemy fire with three guns,
a battery which had placed, but always with the default regular place
them too far apart, making it the most Sometimes useless effect, because
the bullets were not enough to our stores, or other objects to which
they intended to offend.

At 2 o'clock the next day they sent out 150 lijeras Rifles troops, with Indian allies and
Anta Chincheros to occupy a hill overlooking the plain, where exactly the army was to pass to
go to Cambapata, whose people recognized, it was noted he had surrounded the insurgents, with a
wall of bricks, topped and covered in thorns, to impregnate gait, and slow as possible to them the arrival
of the troops to Tinta. At 4 o'clock in the morning, he sent the same General placed a battery of
five guns in a post that dominated the enemies whose well directed fire, saw the advantage and neglect
it in less than an hour, and shortly afterwards the 30 residents of ink, which said that people have
been absent from the family of Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, taking the silver coin, carved jewelry
and other valuable effects, that they had seized since the beginning of the uprising. With this
new beat immediately sent General stores for the army carried with all people of ink, where he found
the portrait of the rebel main slope of the gallows, without find the author of that action. It
had certainly felt as appropriate, to hold serious act of enforcing compliance with the August
name of our legitimate sovereign, and later sent many detachments in different directions, with
orders more efficient, so by all terms procured the arrest of the fugitives: prevention of the
first care was to go to close the passage of the Andes in the province of Carabaya, in order that
the rebel and his family had no insurance presumed seek asylum in those impenetrable rough, or is confused
between the savage Indians. this attempt did not follow the rebels, rather Langui took the road,
and as he had made public his last loss, he dared to chase D. Ventura lard, added to other residents
of that jurisdiction, which has arrested the same José Gabriel, Micaela
Bastidas to his wife and two sons, Hipolito and Fernando, who delivered
for safe custody and conveyance to one of the detachments which had
been following its scope, and were taken to the Spanish countryside,
where the same day had already suffered the penalty of hanging 67
rebels, who were arrested in that neighborhood, whose heads were hung
in public places, for example to the other rebels, to whom were taken
eight guns of different calibers, the largest of the four to 20 rifles
and shotguns, two pairs of pistols, four pounds of cannon balls and
rifle, as many of gunpowder, 30 spears, and much of the theft and
looting that had done.

They were also prisoners, as a result of these favorable and prosperous
successes, Antonio Bastidas, brother of Joseph Gabriel, whom he had
appointed Captain General; Cecilia Tupac Amaru, his half sister, his
cousin, Patrick Nguyen; Colonel Jose Mamani, the commanders, the
artillery, Ramon Ponce, Diego Ponce Diego Verdejo, a relative of the
tyrant Castelo Andres Felipe Mendizabal, Isidro Puma, Mariano Castaño,
Sergeant Major; Diego Ortigosa, Advisor, Manuel Gallegos, feather; Butler
won Melchor Arteaga, Blas Quiñones, chief steward; Tomasa Tito, chieftain
of harassment; José Venel, confident, Estevan Vaca, founder of artillery;
Francisco Torres principal commissioner Luke Colque, Commissioner
and Mayor, four captains, two lieutenants, some black soldiers fleeing
individuals, including Antonio Oblitas, slave D. Antonio Arriaga,
and the same one that was her tormentor in ink.

After the main rebel arrested, his wife, children and most of their chiefs major crisis seems to have
been expected a deal, which would restore its ancient stillness disturbed the minds of those
natural but far from this, we can ensure began again and with more lightness rebellion, because,
having made the flight Diego Cristobal Tupac-Amaru, José Gabriel's half-brother, Mariano Tupac-Amaru,
his son, Andres Noguera, Miguel Bastidas and his nephews, having
followed a different route that others, fortunately managed to free
himself and take up residence in the province of Azangaro, blindly
continued his devotion to the surrounding of Peace, and the Collao,
forming considerable party to support their ideas.

In
this attempt arranged with the most active and effective measures, to gather all their wicked
partial, and collect a lot of weapons and ammunition, to seize the prisoners, while they
were driven to the city of Cuzco, where he had determined to send them the Commanding General,
D. José del Valle, to suffer the punishment they deserved for their
serious crimes. Penetrated by this chief of the rebels' intentions,
although considered remote could verify their project, not left to take
all such measures as he dictated his practice and military experience
to frustrate their efforts, not to expose himself by some freak accident
or chance, some prisoners regained their freedom of that nature and
persuade them to complete security required the presence of his person,
found escorted greatly enhanced with a column, leaving the rest of
the army in the fields of Quiquijana, Ink and Langui, that occurred
as might happen in the short time we calculated could be used in the
voyage, and made arrangements in the form expressive of, custody of
offenders, to bridge Urcos , which gave them all to D. José Cabero,
Colonel of the regiment of dragoons provincial assembly, which garrisoned
that important post, to continue with them until the city of Cuzco,
and hiciese formal surrender of their people to the Visitor, D. José
Antonio de Areche, who stood there, waiting for the success of military
operations, and also to providenciar as necessary to its strength.

Until this time the troops had not experienced it but Lima congratulations, and though always
victorious, and glorious times in all, could not get his general printing on them the generous resolution
to finish the work begun.'s too much love to their families and homes, and the ambitious desire
to harvest their crops, prompted a considerable desertion, which had faded as projected, because he
could not verify their retreat from the bridge Urcos, as soon as it had proposed, because it suddenly disappeared
all Indians Chincheros Anta, and most of militia troops, which consisted of Army force with respect
to the small number of veterans who had successively was in receiving notices of the chiefs
of the other columns, in which he communicated the same incidents,
the troops of their respective commands, and also that he had been attacked
by Langui rebels, and commanded and directed by Diego Cristobal Tupac
Amaru, the nights of 18 and April 20, which had two very bloody action
in which considerable loss was the enemy, and many wounded on our
side, being covered Commander in this issue, D. Manuel Castilla, and
some senior officials.

Addressing these critical circumstances, it was necessary to have active measures, the early replacement
of the deserters, which employed 11 days, and verified this hearing began moving again, with the
body of troops under his command, forcing his best marches to address the people of Sichuan Province
Your Ink, with the intent to bring all his army in the Collao, to pacify and sugetarlas due obedience
to the Sovereign. To this end decided that the column of D by . Manuel de Castilla, mayor of
Paruro, follow the path of the people of Macari, where he had to halt to await further orders.
That Cotabamba, led by its mayor, D. José Maria Acuna on track to Czech Quequi, Yauri and Coporaque,
in order to reduce these people to the obedience of his Majesty, and your success is best
incorporated the mestizos and Indians of the people of the province of Quispicanche that the zeal
of the priest D. Loaira Philippe, a native and resident of the town of Oropesa, recruit their
own will, longing for patenting the serious, that was interested in
the favorable events of the King's Arms, governors and serving at
their head. Another column of 1,000 men, under Colonel Army Dragoons,
D. Gabriel de Aviles, to pass near the village of Muñoz, in order to
obtain information of that country, and to punish those rebels: and
the Commanding General, with the rest of the army, passed the line
that divides the viceroyalty of Lima of Buenos Aires, where he found
the rebellion with great fury and cruelty, because Diego Cristobal
Tupac Amaru, the new fearless leader, fearing that whites and mestizos
of those provinces as arrestesen with treason, by virtue of the prizes
offered by your catch, got elected and the barbarian party egecucion
flooding kill indiscriminately to all who were not of their caste,
regardless of age or sex, punishing and persecuting also to the priests
and priests of those territories, his half Brother Joseph-Gabriel
had been treated with much consideration, and with due respect for
his sacred character.

Uníanse to these misfortunes a larger one, which was to have formed by time, or shortly before,
in the village of Ayoayo, Sicasica province, another monstrous leader
of rebellion, more cruel and bloodthirsty that all of his class.
 That description has so often been published in England that I will not transcribe
it. Her figure is genteel, slender, and well-proportioned. She appears to be lively, sensitive,
and benevolent. The place where the bright blue eyes once sparkled that are now quenched in
darkness is covered with a piece of green ribbon. Conversation with her is carried on by means
of the "speaker's" rapid fingering on her right hand. It was in this manner that we were introduced.
She shook hands with us very affectionately, --taking hold of both hands of Mrs. Davies, and
feeling all about her head, her dress, and her arms. In doing so she felt the wedding-ring,
and wanted to know by means of her interpreter--her governess--why the English ladies wore
a ring on that finger. (The American ladies do not observe the custom.) On my wife telling
her it was to show they were married, she seemed very much amused and astonished. Here it was
very interesting to observe the progress of a thought from ourselves to the governess, and
from her to that "little, white, whispering, loving, listening" hand that received and communicated
all ideas, until the brightened countenance and the lovely smile showed it had reached the
soul. She felt a deep sympathy for Ireland, and wished to know what the English were doing
for the starving inhabitants. We told her; and soon after we saw by the public papers that,
subsequently to our visit, she had done some needle-work, which was sold, and the proceeds
appropriated at her request to purchase a barrel of flour for that unhappy land. "How," exclaims
Elihu Burritt, "she plied at morning, noon, and night, those fingers! wonderful fingers! It
seemed that the very finger of God had touched them with miraculous susceptibilities of fellowship
with the spirit world and that around her. She put them upon the face of His written word,
and felt them thrilled to her heart with the pulsation of His great thoughts of love to man.
And then she felt for other's woe. Poor child! God bless her richly! She reached out her short
arms to feel after some more unhappy than she in the condition of this life; some whose fingers'
ends had not read such sweet paragraphs of heaven's mercy as hers had done; some who had not
seen, heard, and felt what her dumb, silent, deaf fingers had brought into her heart of joy,
hope, and love. Think of that, ye young eyes and ears that daily feast upon the beauty and
melody of this outer world! Within the atmosphere of her quick sensibilities, she felt the
presence of those whose cup was full of affliction. She put her fingers, with their throbbing
sympathies, upon the lean bloodless faces of the famishing children in Ireland, and her sightless
eyes filled with the tears that the blind may shed for griefs they cannot see. And then she
plied the needle and those fingers, and quickened their industry by placing them anon upon
the slow sickly pulse of want that wasted her kind at noonday across the ocean. Days, and nights
too--for day and night were alike to her wakeful sympathies--and weeks she wrought on with
her needle. And then the embroidery of those fingers was sold to the merchants. Would it had
been sold to England's Queen, to be worn by the young princesses on days of state! It was sold;
and its purchase price was a barrel of flour, instead of a country's harvest, which it was
well worth. And that barrel of flour was stowed away without other private mark than that the
recording Angel put upon it, among the thousands that freighted the Jamestown on her recent
mission of brotherly love to Ireland. Laura Bridgman and her barrel of flour should teach the
world a lesson worth the woes of one year's famine." Laura favoured us with her autograph on
a slip of paper, which we shall always carefully preserve as a memorial of a visit to one of
the greatest wonders of the age.

In another room we were introduced to Oliver Caswell. He is about the same age as Laura, and
similarly afflicted, but has been in the institution only six years. His teacher told him,
in the same finger-language which was used with Laura, that we came from British Guiana, and
desired him to find out the place on the large globe before him. This globe was made for the
use of the blind, having upon it the countries and their names in relievo. Oliver turned it
round, and felt with his fingers until they soon rested on the required spot, when he seemed
greatly delighted. His attainments are not so remarkable as those of Laura, for he has not
been so long under tuition; but his progress is highly encouraging.

At 4 P.M. we left Boston by railway for Albany,--fare 5 dollars each. We rested, however, at
Springfield for the night, and that in the most comfortable hotel we had met with in the States.
The next day we moved on to Pittsfield, where we arrived at half-past 11. Finding that we might
get off from that train, and go by another in three or four hours' time, we availed ourselves
of the opportunity of calling upon the Rev. Dr. Todd, the author of "Lectures to Children,"
"The Student's Guide," &c. Instead of the prim, neat, little man we had always imagined him
to be, we found him tall, coarse, slovenly, and unshaven; a man of 46 years of age; hair of
an iron-grey, rough and uncombed; features large; cheek-bones prominent; and the straps of
his trowsers unbuttoned, and flapping about his slippers. But, under this unpromising exterior,
we discerned a soul of great intelligence, frankness, and brotherly kindness. Mrs. Todd has
been a woman of great beauty, and, though she has brought up a large family of children, is
still fresh and comely. Their eldest daughter is 19 years of age; and John, to whom the "Lectures
to Children" were dedicated, is now 14 years of age. The Doctor's insane mother, for whose
sake he was first led to employ his pen, has been dead for some years. His desire to visit
England is very strong. He had been appointed by the churches of Massachusetts to visit those
of England last year in the character of a delegate; but the means of meeting the expenses
of such a delegation were not provided, and consequently the visit was not paid. It is worthy
of observation that the Doctor's books have been sold in England far more extensively than
in America; but from the English editions he receives no profit, and even from the American
ones very little. As it may be the first time that English readers hear of John Todd as Doctor
Todd, and as there is an impression that our American friends bestow their literary honours
too freely and indiscriminately,--which, indeed, is true in reference to some scores of institutions,--nothing
being easier than to obtain a D.D.,--I would just observe that this applies not to the New
England Colleges. They are very chary of such honours, and only confer that of D.D. on ministers
of long standing and high attainments. In the case of Mr. Todd it was most deservedly bestowed.

Pittsfield is but a small town, of about 5,000 inhabitants. The Governor of Massachusetts resided
there, and was a deacon of a Baptist Church. Dr. Todd presides over a Congregational Church.
To the principles of Congregationalism he is devoutly attached. While others regard Presbyterianism
and Congregationalism as matters of mere geographical boundary, Todd could never be prevailed
upon, even by the most advantageous offers, to do the same. He said he had nailed his flag
to the mast, and would never abandon it. "I regard Congregationalism," said he to me, "as a
sort of a working-jacket: with it on I can work with anybody, in any place, and in any way."
With this great and good man we exceedingly enjoyed a homely dinner and a few hours' converse.
In coming out, I observed before the door, half-covered with snow, a beautiful model of the
Temple of Theseus. This was the work of the Doctor's own hands.

At 3-1/2 P.M. we left for Albany. At the station, before crossing the Hudson, we observed in
large letters the ominous words "Beware of pickpockets!" On reaching the city we went to the
"Delevan House," so called after Mr. Delevan, who has done so much for the advancement of temperance
in America. The house is his property, but he does not conduct it. He lives there as a lodger;
and I was permitted to spend the evening in conversation with him. The house is the largest
temperance hotel in the world. It will accommodate about 400 guests. Those who keep it are
religious people, and have a public family-worship every evening, usually conducted by the
master of the house; but if a minister of any denomination be present, he is asked to officiate.
A bell is rung, and all who feel disposed to unite in the worship assemble in a large room.
On this occasion it was my privilege to conduct the service; and in such a place, and under
such circumstances, it was to me an exercise of peculiar interest. A hymn too was sung, and
well sung,--the tune being led by the master of the house, aided by his family.

The next morning, at half-past 7, we set off by railway to Utica, a distance of 94 miles, which
we did not accomplish in less than 6-1/2 hours, making an average of less than 15 miles an
hour, and for which we paid 2-1/2 dollars, or 10s. 6d. This journey led us through the valley
of the Mohawk, and that river was for the most part our constant companion. The railway and
the river seemed to be wedded to each other,--the former conforming to all the whims and windings,
and turnings and twistings of the latter.

Utica is a small city, of about 14,000 inhabitants. Its progress has been but slow. The houses
are painted white, and appear neat and comfortable. I was struck with the immense number of
them that were erected with their gable end to the street, and with a small portico supported
by two fluted columns. A large portion of the inhabitants are Welsh, who have here four or
five places of worship. The Rev. James Griffiths, a man of great piety and worth, is the minister
of the Welsh Independents. At his house we were most kindly entertained during our stay. On
the Sabbath I preached for him twice in Welsh. The following week we were taken to Remsen,
eighteen miles off, to see the Rev. Mr. Everett, whose farewell sermon on leaving Wales I had
heard when quite a boy,--and the Rev. Morris Roberts, to whom I had bidden adieu in Liverpool
sixteen years before. It was delightful to meet these honoured brethren in their adopted home,
after the lapse of so many years. Remsen is quite a Welsh settlement; and these men both preside
over Welsh churches there. Mr. Everett is the editor of a Welsh Monthly Magazine. In that periodical,
as well as in his ministrations, he has been unflinching in his denunciations of slavery. This
has exposed him to cruel persecutions. There are about 70,000 Welsh people in the United States
who worship in their own language. At Remsen I had to deliver two addresses on the results
of emancipation in the West Indies. On our return to Utica, the friend who drove us happened
incidentally to mention that in that country they make the dogs churn! "The dogs churn!" I
said, "Yes," said he; "and I dare say they have a churning-machine so worked at this house:
let us call and see." It was a farm-house. At the door about half-a-dozen chubby little children,
with fine rosy cheeks, were assembled to see the strangers. I began to speak in English to
the eldest, a boy about 10 years of age; but the lad stared! He understood not a word I said.

Though born and so far brought up there, he knew nothing but Welsh! We were gratified with
an inspection of the machine for churning. It was worked very much on the same principle as
a treadmill, and exceedingly disliked by the poor dog. Goats are sometimes made to perform
the same service. In several instances, we saw horses in like manner made to saw wood, and
admired the ingenuity of our cousins in turning to account every particle of power they possess.
"What is the difference," said Dr. Beecher once to a ship-captain, "between an English sailor
and a Yankee one?" The answer was, "An English sailor can do a thing very well in one way,
but the Yankee can do it in half-a-dozen ways."

LETTER XXXV.

On the 22nd we left Utica at 11 A.M., and reached Albany at 5 P.M. At Schenectady Mr. Delevan
got into the same carriage with us; and we had his company to Albany. He had caused to be put
into the hand of every passenger by that train a tract on the claims of the Sabbath, a large
number of which he had printed at his own expense. He spends an immense fortune in doing good,
chiefly by means of the press.

In the evening I strolled out to see a little of Albany, the capital of the State of New York.
I gazed with interest on Dr. Sprague's Church, and wandered until I came to a large building
brilliantly lighted. It was the State House or Capitol. The legislature was then in session.
I marched on, and got in without the least hinderance. There was no crowd and no stir about
the doors. A simple rail divided the part allotted to the spectators from that which was used
by the members. About a hundred of the latter were present. The Senate, whose hall was in another
part of the same building, had been adjourned till next day. This was the House of Representatives;
and they seemed to be in the midst of a very angry discussion. Their cheeks swelled with rage,
or with--quids of tobacco. A spittoon, constantly used, was placed by the side of each member.
They were rebelling against the speaker; and, of all mortals, I never saw one in a more unenviable
position than he. All that his little hammer, his tongue, and his hands could do was of no
avail. The storm raged. The words "honourable member," "unparliamentary," "order," "chair,"
and "in-quiry," were bandied about in all directions. One of the "honourable members," rushing
out past me, said with a loud voice, "I'll go and get a segar," &c. At last the speaker--poor
fellow!--in tones of humiliation and despair said, "The chair is but a man; and, if we err,
we are ready to acknowledge our error."

The next day we left by the steam-boat "Roger Williams," and sailed down the majestic Hudson
to New York, a distance of 145 miles; fare one dollar each. This river has so often been described
by travellers that I need not repeat the attempt.

The following day was Saturday. In the afternoon I met Dr. Spring at the Tract House. After
the usual salutation, he said, "Shall we hear your voice at our place to-morrow afternoon?"--"I
have no objection, sir,--what time does your service commence?" "At 4 o'clock."--"Very well."
"Where shall I find you?"--"Where will you be?" "I shall be in the pulpit five minutes before
the time."--"Oh! very well, very well."

In the morning I went to hear the Doctor. His introductory prayer was long. In it he prayed
for Mexico--that it might have a "free and religious government," and that the present war
might result in the overthrow there of the "man of sin;" but no reference to American slavery.
The Doctor, bear in mind, is an Old School Presbyterian, and a supporter of the Colonization
Society. His text was John v. 23: "That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour
the Father," &c. His divisions were--

I. What honours are ascribed to the Father.

1. Appropriate names and titles. Jehovah, &c.

2. Ascription of most glorious attributes. Eternal--Immutable --Omnipotent, &c.

3. Great and glorious works. Creation--Preservation--Redemption --Atonement--Regeneration--Justification--Raising
the dead--Judging the world--Destroying it--Glory of the righteous--Punishment of the wicked.
(All these were supported by appropriate quotations of Scripture.)

4. Duties enjoined in reference to Him. Confidence--Worship, &c.

II. That the same honours are ascribed to the Son. (He went over each of the above particulars,
showing from Scripture their application to the Son.)

III. That, therefore, the Son is properly and truly God.

1. We cannot believe the Scriptures would ascribe the same honours to Him as to the Father,
if He were not equal to the Father.

2. If He be not truly God, the Scriptures tempt to idolatry.

3. If He be not truly God, the accounts which the Scriptures give of Him are self-contradictory.

4. If He be not truly God, there is no evidence from Scripture that there is a God at all.

This was a massive and compact argument for the Divinity of Christ. It occupied upwards of
an hour in the delivery, and was read.

In the afternoon I took care to be in the pulpit five minutes before the time. The Doctor shortly
after came, and took his seat behind me. This to me is always an annoyance,--I would almost
as soon have a man with me in bed as in the pulpit;--and in this instance it was peculiarly
so, as towards the close, although I had not exceeded forty minutes, I felt quite persuaded
that the Doctor was pulling at my coat-tail, which led me rather abruptly to conclude. In this,
however, I was mistaken; and the Doctor assured me it was what he had never done in his life,
except in one instance,--and that was when the preacher, having occupied two hours with his
sermon, was entering upon a third.

In the evening of the 27th of April I heard, at the Tabernacle, New York, the celebrated Gough
deliver a lecture on Temperance. It was to commence at 8 o'clock; but we had to be there an
hour before the time, in order to get a comfortable place. That hour was a dreary one. The
scraping of throats and the spitting were horrible. It seemed as if some hundreds of guttural
organs were uttering the awfully guttural sentence, "Hwch goch dorchog a chwech o berchill
cochion."

At last Gough made his appearance on the platform. He is a slender young man of three or four
and twenty. He told us he had spoken every night except three for the last thirty nights, and
was then very weary, but thought "what a privilege it is to live and labour in the present
day." He related his own past experience of delirium tremens,--how an iron rod in his hand
became a snake,--how a many-bladed knife pierced his flesh,--how a great face on the wall grinned
at and threatened him; "and yet," he added, "I knew it was a delusion!"

A temperance man, pointing to Gough, had once observed to another, "What a miserable-looking
fellow that is!" "But," replied the other, "you would not say so, if you saw how he keeps everybody
in a roar of laughter at the public-house till 1 or 2 in the morning." "But I was miserable,"
said Gough; "I knew that the parties who courted and flattered me really despised me." He told
us some humorous tales,--how he used to mortify some of them by claiming acquaintance with
them in the street, and in the presence of their respectable friends. He returned scorn for
scorn. "Gough," said a man once to him, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself to be always drinking
in this manner." "Do I drink at your expense?"--"No." "Do I owe you anything?"--"No." "Do I
ever ask you to treat me?"--"No." "Then mind your own business," &c. He introduced this to
show that that mode of dealing with the drunkard was not likely to answer the purpose.

"Six years ago," said he, "a man on the borders of Connecticut, sat night after night on a
stool in a low tavern to scrape an old fiddle. Had you seen him, with his old hat drawn over
his eyebrows, his swollen lips, and his silly grin, you would have thought him adapted for
nothing else. But he signed the pledge, and in two years became a United States senator, and
thrilled the House with his eloquence."

In one place, after Gough had delivered a lecture, some ladies gathered around him, and one
of them said, "I wish you would ask Joe to 'sign the pledge,"--referring to a wretched-looking
young man that was sauntering near the door. Gough went up to him, spoke kindly to him, and
got him to sign: the ladies were delighted, and heartily shook hands with Joe. A year after
Gough met Joe quite a dandy, walking arm-in-arm with a fine young lady. "Well, Joe, did you
stick to the pledge?" said Gough to him. "Yes," said Joe with an exulting smile, "and the lady
has stuck to me."

For more than an hour Gough kept the vast audience enchained by his varied and charming talk.

On the 29th I went over the Tract House in New York, and was delighted to see there six steam-presses,--four
of which were then at work, pouring forth in rapid succession sheet after sheet impressed with
that kind of literature which in my judgment is admirably adapted to meet the wants of this
growing country. They were then printing on an average 27,000 publications, including nearly
2,400 of each kind, per diem! and employing sixty women in folding and stitching. During the
last year they printed 713,000 volumes, and 8,299,000 smaller publications, making a total
of 217,499,000 pages, or 58,154,661 pages more than in any previous year! The Director of cigars,
D. Francisco de Paula Sanz, sugeto adorned with the best of circumstances and qualities, was in the
city by chance, and as a result of the Commission that they were responsible for the establishment of
this branch moved from its spirit bizarre, and tired of the contemplations that were used with
the rebels wanted to attack them with their dependents and some neighbors that were added, and
leaving the city with this attempt, the day February 16, 1781 arrived at the foot of the hills
of the Punilla, they were hosted the Indians, who fell immediately to try to present the fight,
convinced that the small number who opposed them, on his part assured
maturity. loaded with so much violence and many that little piece,
which consisted of 40 men alone, not enough value for resistance,
and yielding to the increased number and force, was necessary to consider
the withdrawal, which would have died all for the confusion is that
the egecutaron, he did not come out to support the militia company
of grenadiers , unable to prevent the lives lost in the fray D. Francisco
Revilla, two riot police who accompanied him in his unhappy fate:
although it came after Flores with the greatest number of people served
little diligence, having entered the night.

The gentle and natural genius please the Director Sanz, accompanied by their generosity, made him
highly esteemed of all but de Flores, with whom he had had some troubles for the different way of thinking.
Sanz, everything was fire to punish the insolence of the rebels, and Flores, all caution and phlegm
in contemplating them, whose conduct, mormurada usually caused lampoons denigrating his honor,
calling him a coward, daring to say, it was love at party rebellion: and
reached both the boldness of the public who expressed their feelings
and rude satirical verse meanings, sent home the same night of the
attack of 16, a portion of chicken, not knowing who had been the author
of this untimely gift.

The next day the neighbors were submitted in writing, stating they
were ready and willing to go after the enemy.

All anticipated cried his last wreck, cried openly, that if they are not leading the attack, would
come without the Major, and I obliged so many effective repeated insinuations that was increased
by the unfortunate event of the Director, determined for 20 of February same attack the Indians of
the Punilla. Serian 12 of that day when our troops launched, and reaching the field is presented Commander
a pretty sight, which he announced the victory, and it was recognized that a large number
of women, mixed and confused among the troops, wanted to go forward in function: this rare phenomenon,
as flattered the taste of this officer to tears, which the Army all
his skill to dissuade them depart from such a dangerous undertaking,
with which only had already achieved immortal glory, and though they
eased the sting, he could never achieve retire, and remained on the
battlefield, or to encourage their presence would inspire the soldiers,
or to serve any relief misfortune.

Two o'clock in the afternoon when touched to attack the enemy, who was stationed on the heights of
three rough and rugged mountains, which lead to dangerous to climb: but this difficulty pawned the
value of our people, who were so willing to come to blows, and pursued with heroic courage, the
Indians soon suffered the assault, winning gracefully summits of those steep hills, taking with the
edges of the sword to all who did not withdraw his escape leaving
the field Battle 400 bodies, with little or no loss on our side, and
its free result of the blockade the city in such a short space of
time, he could exclaim with Major General Julius Caesar - Veni, Vidi,
Vinci. was celebrated this festive cheers of victory live the King,
and illuminating the city for three nights, surrendered to Almighty
due thanks, expressing the joy with all those signs with proving the
love, the sincerity of the affection.

This destruction of the enemy brought the most favorable consequences, and would have been greater
if he had anticipated the action: it scared Chayanta province, deposed any concerns, and to check
their repentance, delivered to the chief perpetrators were Damaso and Nicolas Catari, Santos Hachu,
Simon Castillo and several others who all died in three styles: that Divine Providence and
mocks the expectations of offenders, providing fall into the hands of justice, when creating more
free from his rigor. This fact shows how convenient it was to win the moment, and work with activity
against the insurgents, taking advantage of the consternation in which they were happy for the success
of the Punilla, rather than lay down their espunto: for suspicion
and distrust of the commander, and his character more political than
military, made him see a slow prejudicial to the public cause.

And faltered in a sea of doubt, spent the time doing prevention with
concealing their management, that might have changed with repeated tests
of loyalty and gallantry he had given the residents of La Plata, who
just complained about the concept that earned him because he felt
they were unable to sustain offensive operations in the open without
the help of veterans who were waiting for: what should have tempted without
this circumstance, because something has been venturing into extremes cases,
where no other remedy is presented. These arrests resulted in not
a few evils, particularly in the provinces of Chichas Lipes, who rose
up after that incident, because the superiority they had met, and
they manifested such behavior, and were not very formidable commander
and weapons which were in the city of La Plata, where winning even
after they were content to shut himself up again in terms of its premises,
without thinking for a remedy for the calamities Agen: to also contribute
the same system have followed the imperial town of Potosí, who believed
so filled with duty to shield their precious mines.

When I was to be held at the home of Commander, D. Ignacio Flores, with a banquet the great success
of the action of the Punilla, received the sad news of the horrific events in the town of Oruro,
which is dismayed by the spirits of all the guests, and filled with bitterness , making the pleasure
even though they had prevented. And as one of the most notable occurrences of this general uprising,
it may not be unpleasant relates to extension, and all the circumstances which requires an
act of this nature. The origin, therefore, and the causes of this tragedy funestísima were have been
reported in that town fatalities occurred in the provinces of Chayanta and Ink, with an edict issued
José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, in which expressive of all its cruel and
ambitious intentions, which, come to the notice of the magistrate,
D. Ramon de Urrutia, together with Extranodal that caused in the provinces
of Lampa and Carabaya, determined to prevent him for any event.

Cholos companies formed and neighbors, to discipline in the handling of weapons, allocating different
places for teaching, where he attended twice weekly, and learned to like the doctrine of their masters:
some certainly did not approve such a measure, or because they were addicted to Tupac Amaru rebel
chief, whose coming longing desire, or more likely, because they were his confidants . They
were attending one such event only to emulate those who taught, who were Europeans, and to form
various criticisms about their operations, while fixed insolently opposed to the crown posters, denouncing
the government of the mayor and other judges. Among them one day dawned December 25, 1780, in
announcing the murder, that after egecutaron with Europeans, and rebuked her behavior D. Fernando
Gurruchaga, regular Mayor, who had just that year, with denigrating insults him, and justice. It
also prevented individuals from City Hall, Mayors choose to refrain from Europe, because if that
was passing, would not last eight days, because they rise up and would be a victim of his anger,
to be thieves and to prevent such a disastrous event, had Mayors appoint Don precisely Juan de
Dios and Don Jacinto Rodriguez. The magistrate, careful with these public threats and insolent pretensions:
he acted guard at the inquest and search, the authors, but more accurate measures, and judicial and
extrajudicial practiced, could never know the truth, punish offenders ,
in order to keep them all with the peace and good harmony, which always
tended from the entrance to his district. Where election day, by the year
1781, the members proposed to nominate deserving and honest spared
himself the trouble of loving decency and justice, so that they could
carry out successfully the charges, trial in adult life and the laws
that prevent, requiring the critical circumstances in which the kingdom
was.

To this end they proposed to D. José Miguel Llano and Valdez, Patricia, D. Rubis Joaquin de Celis, and
D. Manuel de Mugrusa, Europeans, with the aim of the rod to come out of the house of Rodriguez,
who pretended it inherited, and that neither they nor any of its partial and domestic, were
chosen because they made 18 years that they were who took office sugetos of those jobs, not
allowing others never had been appointed by the inordinate ambition of ruling that ruled: and
also to avoid injustices, extortions and violence, which judges egecutaban
title with all sorts of people, valid from unlimited despotism they
had acquired, which protected all sorts of vices, which vitiated their
dependents and servants.

Rodriguez
this transcended by the idea, prevented some changes and differences to the day of the election:
the vote nevertheless prevailed in favor of justice , and left those proposed by the elected magistrate,
who cruelly hated Rodriguez, for the dissimilarity of customs and birth and not being able to
hide the poison that enclosed their hearts, seeing they had taken
the command, like so many years had usurped , took off the mask, to
be seen to clearly senses against him.

D. Jacinto was to die with vomiting that caused the anger of the snub, and D. John left the village
for his wit haste, leaving at home warned that none of their customers come out to the bullfights,
which regularly held to mark the new Mayors to the public, or that they lend to these anything
they'd ask for the usual refreshments. In the same day he discovered he had formed the league with
them the priest of the parish church.

It happened then, that since time immemorial custom, which finished the election, and confirmed by
the mayor in the chapter house, spent all of the major church council to hear the Mass of thanksgiving,
the council members went to the pia demonstration, but being already at the gates of the church,
the sacristan went to meet to tell them that there was no Mass, because none had given alms.
There were things in this critical state, when the news of the death of Tomas Katari, and believing the
mayor of Paria, D. Manuel Winery, which removed this seditious disturber of the public tranquility,
it would be easy sugetar the province, collecting taxes and the real
deal, decided to go into it with weapons and people. Urrutia asked
for it to assist him with soldiers, who denied , preventing consequences
could not be good: but misguided Bodega, gathered 50 men, paid at
his expense, and set off to the people of Challapata, where he and
his companions but they paid with his life lijera determination.

With this Indeed, the Indians were persuaded Challapata, Condo, poop and other neighboring villages,
the mayor of Oruro to the Paria had assisted with weapons and people to punish them, since
that day threatened the town and the mayor, protesting desolate, and kill to all its inhabitants.
Agregóse to this, a Franciscan monk named Fray Bernardino Gallegos, who at that time was the chaplain
on the plantations of D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, overlapping their
malicious plan, said he had heard that the Indians were ready to invade
Challapata to Oruro, and the main reason that impelled, was knowing
that every day is to egercicio therefore considered appropriate to
be suspended for without more diligence that is sosegarian the minds
of those rebels, for their resentment was being born only of that
provision.

The mayor, and was not given assent to the notices of that religion, or because they penetrate
inside, did not alter their decisions, born of shock and continuous care: because, resented this, never
ceased to spread onwards dire news moments that threatened by the insult offered by the neighboring
Indians. In this conflict was to doubt the means chosen: there were no weapons or munitions;
hacíanse public and secret councils, nothing was resolved because of lack of money in the box of their
own, or to speak more properly, not to be such a case, for it was
many years had taken possession of their fund D. Jacinto Rodriguez.
Nor could go to the royal treasury, because he resisted the officers, saying
no optional assist them to extract any amount, without an express order of
superiority, and by last resort, it was thought that the neighbors contribute
with a donation, nor took effect, the extreme poverty in which they were.
In these troubles manifested the zeal of the treasurer D. Salvador Parrilla,
giving $ 2,000 cash from their own interests, that militias were quartered,
and ammunition were prevented in the meantime it was part of the
audience, to deliberate what they had fit.

This amount was given principle to the preparation, they began to pay 300 men were named captains
and other officers, to the service: D. Manuel Serrano, formed a company of the most infamous
mob of people, and appointed his lieutenant Don Nicolas de Herrera, brooding genius, who later became
one of the most conspicuous in this tragic scene. Quartered and the troops were raised by
the many little dissensions subordination of the soldiers, the officials in any law for the supply
of the lent above, and other reasons, which originated, but by the disposition of the spirits, which,
those founded complaints. On the 9th, at ten o'clock at night, some soldiers left the barracks the
company of Serrano, screaming help others, and asked the cause, said Sebastian Disbursing aloud:
- "Friends, countrymen and peers, be assured that you try the most treacherous treachery against us
by the escutcheons: comunicárseme this news just for my daughter; on any occasion we can best provide
clear evidence of our love of country, but in this: not at all cherish our lives, willingly
sacrifiquémoslas in defense of freedom, making all the humility and performance, we have had with
the Spanish Europeans, anger and rage, and get it over with this damn race. " Immediately
spread throughout the town this reasoning, and the motion they were militia companies, not neglecting
D. Nicolas Herrera in stoking the fire, telling everywhere with more
vivid colors, which could suggest their malicious intent, the conspiracy
of the Europeans.

Disbursing
Sebastian servant had been many years in the mines of both Rodriguez, and now that he attended including
in the evenings with D. Jacinto, where this was coming down drunk,
bad that commonly suffered. Among other productions of drunkenness, came
up with the nonsense that the mayor wanted him hanged, together with his
brothers, Don Manuel Herrera and other neighbors.

The heat from the beer, which had altered to disbursing him facilitate the murder after egecutaron,
treating it with D. Nicolas de Herrera, sugeto thief often processed by public and highwayman. In that
no one was satisfied that many Europeans were wealthy, but he and some of his wicked companions
were deposited many bars and bags of silver coin in face D. José
Endeiza, whom he considered more than 50,000 pesos effective.

As this individual was so kind, went to the table many of their friends too rich, and agreed that both
were provided with travel to Potosi, came together with all his
wealth to live in the house where he was staying.'s Dam as increased
flow was the main origin of this unfortunate event.

D. Nicolas Herrera, who wanted more than all egecutar came for plunder, published everywhere Payer's
reasoning, and continuing its proceedings, entered the house of D. Casimiro Delgado, who at that time
was playing with D. Manuel Amezaga, Challacollo cure, and Fray Antonio Lazo, the Order of San Agustin.
They were all thrown to the novelty, and decided to go to warn the militia that threatened
misfortune: determination, indeed, is unusual in those sugetos, and has many overtones of seditious,
because without reflecting on the consequences went to the barracks, called the Captain D. Bartolomè
Menacho and to others, and gave them news of what they knew, making them the prevention of to
beware. With this and the voice of treason on the part of Europeans that Herrera had spread
throughout the village, troops came in floods headquarters, mothers, wives and sisters of those who
were quartered: some had guns to defend themselves and others with the most tender voices, demanding
with tears to abandon that site. To this he added the soldiers, incited
by disbursing it was persuaded certain the plot: some claimed that
the mayor had prevented a mine to blow them up suddenly, others shouted
that there was no reason to doubt, because he had Arrimadas suddenly
stairs to assault the yard of her home.

All was confusion, disorder and confusion, without the slightest foundation, because the malice
of the seductive invented these and other spices to stir the spirits seditious.
In this line spent the night in constant terror, then it cleared on
the 10th, abandoned the barracks: some went to their houses, and others
collected by Paymaster, were presented to D. Jacinto Rodriguez, protesting
that his Lieutenant Colonel and should be reported as premeditated
against them, they were ready to obey blindly, thus giving a misleading
diagnostic test of subordination that had: who, hearing the complaints,
he said not to return to headquarters, and standing with some confidence,
secretly warned them rioted that night and warned the manner in which
he had to practice.

  He had left days before the town of Fray Bernardino Challapata Gallegos,
the Order of St. Francisco, under the pretext of freeing some soldiers
who took D. Manuel de la Bodega, who were hiding in the priest's
house, but his real purpose was to call the Indians for that day. In
the same distributed D. Jacinto to his black, and some of his servants
on the farms and surrounding towns, for with the help of these, bending
forces and accomplish its end, mounted his horse, went to the Cerro
de las Minas, where together with all the Indians , mulattos and mestizos,
who worked in them and gave them orders that come down just for the
Cerro de Conchopata to the town after nightfall.

Everything is as it was prevented egecutó, starting the noise of the peons mining in that place, at
the appointed time. To better ensure the premeditated action, walking the streets and squares,
a company official Menacho, called D. José Asurdui, publishing was certain magistrate and the treachery
of the Europeans, so brazen, that compelled one to rebuke, saying:
"Only a man of little understanding could utter this nonsense: you
are persuaded that the magistrate, accompanied only 30 to 40 Europeans,
are deemed capable of resisting and killing more than 5,000 men who
have the town, this was the same as an ant trying to meet a lion.

"But the principles were different from that riot of served no good reason to restrain these,
but rather were increased by the groups at the corners of the streets and public square, growing
care, to have found a piece of letter of Fray Bernardino Gallego, who warned his brother, Fray
Feliciano that inevitably the night of 10 would overrun the town
by the Indians Challapata, but that did not have care, that the end
was taking life to the mayor and royal officials.

These Indians did not appear that night and learned the truth, many days after, knew did not think
to come by then, and it was just a ruse to increase the fear and confusion. At 4 pm he ordered
the mayor to play call for the militia came together, in fact obeyed, with very few were needed, but
the fact of not wanting to enter the barracks, and if kept divided into pieces by the corners of
the square, talking to each of the alleged treason, and what they had to practice, and not neglecting his commission
disbursing recalled the facts of Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, supporting their conduct against
the Sovereign, the oppression that they suffered from bad government ministers, the unbearable
breasts, that because of the war with the British, imposed on the people, and other reasons
to conduct effective encouragement to the end that had been proposed. The mayor, tried to reduce
them, and gently, and with threats, but nothing was enough, and could only get offered, would
remain in the square, waiting for the Indians threatening to invade
the town that night and that no means remain employed, is invited
to sleep with them, and when checking the plot of the Europeans, first
sacrifice their lives rather than allow any of the soldiers perished.

 For instance, when A.B.'s
mouth happens to be well replenished with, "flesh, fish, or fowl," potatoes, pudding, or pastry,
at one table, C.D., from another table far away across the room, at the top of his voice, calls
out, "Mr. A.B., allow me the pleasure to take a glass of wine with you." A.B. makes a very
polite bow, fills his glass in a great hurry, holds it up with his right hand, C.D. doing the
same thing with his; and then A.B. and C.D., making another polite bow to each other, simultaneously
swallow their glasses of wine! Were we not accustomed to the sight, it would appear as laughable
as anything travellers tell us of the manners and customs of the least enlightened nations.
Surely, if this childish practice is still a rule in polite society, it is one "more honoured
in the breach than the observance." In no city on the Eastern side of the Alleghany Mountains
did I meet a single drunken American in the street. The few whom I did detect in that plight
were manifestly recent importations from Great Britain and Ireland!

5. I also greatly admire their secular enterprise. They afford a fine illustration of the idea
conveyed in their own indigenous phrase, "Go a-head."

LETTER XXXVII.

But there is a class of things among them which men of well-regulated minds and habits cannot
but detest. These, as they have come under my notice, I have pointed out. The chief of all
is slavery. This stared me in the face the moment I entered the States; and it presses itself
on my notice now that I have retired from the American shore. It is the beginning and the ending
of all that is vile and vicious in this confederation of Republics. In England, you have been
often told by American visiters that the Northern States of the Union are not at all identified
with slavery, and are, in fact, no more responsible for its existence in the South than we
are for the existence of a like system in the colonies of some of our European Allies. Than
this representation nothing can be further from the truth. There is really no analogy whatever
between the two cases. Each State, it is true, has its own distinct and independent legislature;
but all the States are united in one federation, which has a thoroughly pro-slavery government.
The constitution is pledged to maintain the execrable system, and the Northern States are pledged
to maintain the hypocritical constitution.

That no preponderance of influence might be given to any one State over the rest, by making
it the seat of the central government, a district of 10 miles square was partitioned out, partly
from Virginia and partly from Maryland, for that purpose. This district, called the District
of Columbia, has no government and no representation of its own, but is under the absolute
control and regulation of the United Government or Congress, "exclusive jurisdiction over it
in all cases whatsoever" having been given by the constitution. In this absolute government
of the "ten miles square," embracing the site of Washington the capital, the Northern States,
by their representatives in Congress, have their full share. Now, not merely does slavery exist
in that District, but it exists there under statutes so barbarous and cruel that the neighbouring
slave States have actually abolished the like within the bounds of their separate jurisdiction,
leaving to the free States the unenviable responsibility of enforcing laws too horrible for
kidnappers. Take another,--"A free negro may be arrested, and put in jail for 3 months, on
suspicion of being a runaway; and if he is not able to prove his freedom in 12 months, he is
to be sold as a slave TO PAY HIS JAIL FEES!" Are there not hundreds of free men, both black
and white, who could not prove their freedom under such circumstances? Yet, for this crime,
they are reduced to perpetual bondage by authority of Congress. And all this the North upholds!

Washington, the capital, thus governed, is but the great mart of the national man-trade. From
the adjoining port of Alexandria, 7 miles off, the victims are shipped for the South. Listen
to the Gazette of that place,--"Here you may behold fathers and brothers leaving behind them
the dearest objects of affection, and moving slowly along in the mute agony of despair,--there
the young mother sobbing over the infant, whose innocent smiles seem but to increase her misery.
From some you will hear the burst of bitter lamentation; while from others the loud hysteric
laugh breaks forth, denoting still deeper agony."

But you will be told that it is not in the power of Northern members to alter this state of
things. Why not? In the House of Representatives the free States have a majority of about 50,
and in the Senate they have for some years been equal. But have they tried? Have they protested?
Have they voted? Have they divided the House? They have voted. How? Eighty-two Northern men,
a few years ago, voted that Congress ought not to interfere in any way with slavery in the
District of Columbia!

Look at some of the provisions of the Federal Government. See what "SOLEMN GUARANTEES" it gives
to the accursed system of slavery, in whatever State it may be found! Here is a positive premium
on slave-holding. This constitutes an aristocracy of the most monstrous character, and introduces
into the social fabric an element as absurd as it is perilous. Talk of the aristocracy of England,
and the undue influence of landed proprietors! You have nothing half so unjust and vicious
as this. Suppose the Southern States have two millions and a half of slaves: for that amount
of property they have one million and a half of additional votes; while in the free States
there is no property representation whatever. Or look at the question in another aspect. Two
citizens have each a capital of 5,000l. to invest. The one invests in shipping or commerce
in New York, and at the time of the election, counts one; the other invests in slaves in South
Carolina, obtaining for the sum mentioned a whole gang of 100 human beings of both sexes and
of all ages, and at the time of the election he counts sixty-one,--swamping with his 100 slaves
the votes of sixty-one respectable merchants in a free State! This it is which has constituted
an aristocracy of about 200,000 slaveholders in the South, the ruling power in the United States.
It has made the preservation and extension of slavery the vital and moving principle of the
national policy. So that ever since 1830 slavery, slave-holding, slave-breeding, and slave-trading
have enjoyed the special and fostering care of the Federal Government. As to the quid pro quo--the
taxation that was to be connected with the representation of "three-fifths of all other persons,"
that has been almost entirely evaded. "There has not been," says a New England Reviewer, "if
we mistake not, but in one instance, and then in a very light degree, an assessment of direct
taxation."

Art. I., sect. 8, says, "Congress shall have power"--among other things--"to suppress insurrections."
And Art. But for this, the system could not stand a single day. Let the North say to the South,
"We will not interfere with your 'peculiar institution,' but we will not defend it; if you
cannot keep your slaves in subjection, you must expect no aid from us." Let them only say this,
and do nothing, and the whole fabric of slavery would instantly crumble and fall. The edifice
is rotten, and is propped up only by the buttresses of the North. The South retains the slave,
because the free States furnish the sentinels.

Again, Art. IV., sect.

This clause pledges the North, not only to refuse an asylum to the fugitive slave, but also
to deliver him up to his unrighteous and cruel task-master,--a deed which the law of God expressly
condemns, and which the best impulses of our nature repudiate with loathing and contempt. The
article before us constitutes all the free States of the Union a slave-hunting ground for the
Southern aristocracy. Talk of the game laws of England! Here is a game law infinitely more
unjust and oppressive. A free country this! What brings good here?

"The old man said he came to find out if it was true the threat to
remove the subsidy from the band in the event of that afternoon was
the pilgrimage of San Antonio. Maza's face clouded. It was quite true.


THE PRESIDENCY.--Out of the 16 presidential elections since the origin of the Confederation,
13 have been in favour of slave-holders, and only 3 in favour of Northern men. By holding the
Presidency, slavery rules the cabinet, the diplomacy, the army, and the navy of the Union.
The power that controls the Presidency controls the nation. This could not be. Nina suspicious, believing
that everything was Antonito joker joke, and instead of finding
Dona Francisca swimming in abundance, find drowning, as always, in a sea
of traps and misery.

XXXVIII Trembling came to the Imperial Street, and having ordered
the Moor that was leaning against the wall and wait there while she
went up and found out whether he could stay in the home was told Almudena:
Bandon not you me, Amri. - Are you mad?

"I leave you now that you are mailto, and the two walk as the doldrums? Do not think such nonsense,
and Stay there. I will put you there in front, into the street from Lettuce. - Are not you
n'gañar me

?
 During 31 of the 34 years
from 1811 to 1845 the Speakers were all slave-holders.

The slave power, having thus the whole machinery of government under its control, can at any
time bring all the resources of the nation to bear upon the preservation and extension of the
"peculiar institution." While Florida, for instance, belonged to Spain, it furnished an asylum
for runaway slaves from the neighbouring States. It must therefore be purchased by the Union,
and five millions of dollars were paid for it. Still the native Indians, those children of
the forest, afforded a shelter to fugitives from slavery. They must therefore be either exterminated
or exiled. A war was waged against them. Dona Paula left the room escorted by the Duke, who fired
at the door with an exaggerated and silent reverence.

When you reach the stairs the lady anxiously, breathed freely. Even at the expense of, those painful
emotions, deeply glad to have settled the matter without scandal and safely. And with light foot,
she crawled, and ordinarily to walk because of his illness, was to communicate to Gonzalo result
of the visit.

At lunch time the Duke said it had received a letter from one of
his children in that news would come to spend the month of September
with him Sarrio. Would probably also his brother the Marquis del Riego.
On this occasion expressed their resolve to take rooms at the inn.


The Annexation of Texas and the Mexican War--all for the perpetuation and extension of slavery--are
fresh in your remembrance. 

Bonis did not hesitate to compare it to that before the storm.

  For the moment, was the one who brings
  the surprising, the unheard. Reyes realized he
  was there alone, that Valcárcel and the
  related future Körner eat it willingly.
  

