Below the transoms there is a series of unglazed panels, which have not escaped criticism as
spoiling the proportions of the window; but most people are satisfied with them in the interior,
where the wall arcading at once explains the necessity, and gives effect to the whole. A simple
three-light window has been placed in the gable above. The windows on the east and west sides
of this transept, though renovated by Sir Arthur Blomfield, date from the time of Edward III,
as Mr. Wallace did not interfere with them beyond shortening the length of one on the east.
Below the great window in the south elevation there had formerly been an entrance to this transept,
to which a wooden porch was added. These are now swept away, and the entrance has been transferred
to the eastern side, formerly blocked up by the church of St. Mary Magdalene. Mr. Wallace had
changed the design of the buttresses, and affixed pinnacles to them, on the authority of certain
old engravings which represent them as existing at an earlier period. It may be said, however,
that the old pictures differ very much from each other in such details, and cannot be relied
on for accuracy. Sometimes, no doubt, though almost contemporaneous, they represent alterations
actually made at the church within a short time of one another; but the discrepancies between
them are just as likely to be due to the caprices of individual engravers. On the other hand,
it is fair to them to remember the innovations, for better or worse, which the vestry and churchwardens
thought it right to make at frequent intervals. Some of them occur in the history of this very
transept. For instance, the original gable was removed early in the eighteenth century, and
a covering substituted, of a kind which Mr. Dollman humorously describes as "the pleasing novelty
of a hipped roof." Again, in 1679 a sundial was placed over the central window, to give way
in 1735 to an ingenious combination of sundial and clock, for which a triangular arrangement,
presenting a clock of two faces, was substituted four years later. See illustration, p. 27.
All these may now be regarded as among the things that have never been, except in the historical
lessons they contain.

The =Tower=, at the intersection of the nave and transepts, is 35 ft. square externally, and
rises to the height of 129 ft. 6 in., exclusive of the pinnacles, which stand 34 ft. higher.
The exterior walls throughout consist of the intermixture of flint and stone, characteristic
of the rest of the church, except the transepts, which are of Bath stone. It has been stated
that the tower was originally supported at the angles by buttresses, but it is not at all certain
that this was the case, and it would have been an unusual and dangerous experiment to remove
them, unless the tower had been altogether rebuilt. That the old builders did not shrink from
such daring alterations, however, is proved by their having removed the flying buttresses from
the original nave, which led to the collapse of the roof in 1469. In a bird's-eye view of Southwark,
including St. Saviour's Church 'as it appeared' in 1543, the buttresses are absent. In an engraving
by Hollar (usually accurate), dated 1647, the buttresses are shown. The present appearance
of the tower is against the theory, as there is next to nothing for the buttresses to rest
on; but it is probable that the angles were altered at the same time, and Mr. Dollman has given
his weight to the conjecture, apparently relying on Hollar's correctness, in preference to
less known engravers. The first stage of the tower, just visible above the roof, was erected
at the same time as the adjoining transepts. The two upper stages are attributed to Bishop
Fox (circa 1520), and are in the Perpendicular style of his date. The uppermost stage is chamfered
at the quoins, leaving a small off-set at the level of the next. Each story contains two windows
of two lights, transomed, the whole terminating in an embattled parapet, with crocketed pinnacles
at the corners, surmounted by vanes. These were put up by Mr. Gwilt in 1818, in place of the
old vanes, dated 1689, the pattern of which was slightly different. If the early engravings
are to be trusted, Mr. Gwilt also made a considerable alteration in the design of the pinnacles
at the same time. The two rooms within the tower are reserved for the ringers and the peal
of twelve bells which the church has possessed since 1735.[17]

The =South side of the Nave= brings us to Sir Arthur Blomfield's chief restoration, or rather
rebuilding, of 1890-1897.

As explained in the introductory chapter, the nave had been walled off from the eastern portion
of the church and allowed to drop into ruinous neglect from 1831 till 1839, when a flimsy substitute
was begun. The foundation stone was laid by Dr. Sumner, then Bishop of Winchester. The fragile
nature of this work may be inferred from the fact that it was finished in the following year,
and as the floor was raised seven and a half feet above the old level it was impossible to
use the new nave in connection with the choir and transepts.

Guided by the ground plan of the thirteenth-century nave, showing the position of the columns
of the arcade, and the outer walls generally, as revealed when the modern brickwork was removed,
Sir Arthur has succeeded in giving us a practical reproduction of the original, both in character
and material.[18] It will be no disparagement to his admirable work to say that it was made
more easy by the labours of his predecessors, Mr. Gwilt and Mr. Dollman, and especially by
the careful plans and drawings which the latter gentleman left behind him after fourteen years'
patient study of the fabric. The south elevation exhibits seven bays, divided and supported
by flying buttresses, each bay of the clerestory being lighted by a plain lancet window.

The flying buttresses had been removed from the old nave, with disastrous consequences to the
original roof, as already stated. They are now replaced, and at once give strength and effect
to the elevation, besides bringing it into harmony with the architecture of the choir, where
the flying buttresses were never removed. The wall spaces in the aisle below are occupied by
five lancet windows, matching those in the clerestory, except in the bay next the transept,
where there is a beautiful window of three lights. Before describing it, the interesting fact
may be mentioned that the window in the westernmost bay of this aisle had been concealed and
protected, while its neighbours were destroyed, through having a small wooden house, or shed,
built up against it. The single window thus accidentally preserved, was taken as a model for
the new ones throughout the aisle and clerestory, with the exception of the larger aisle window
just referred to. This, though also entirely rebuilt, is a modified reproduction of that which
filled the same space in the time of Edward II--a fine example of the Decorated style. Divided
by sub-arcuation into three lights, surmounted by circles of quatrefoil tracery in the spandrels
of the arches, and supported by composite shafts, with moulded bases and foliated capitals,
this elegant window had been allowed to drop into a ruin. Drawings of it had fortunately been
taken before it was too late, and the present work gives us the leading features, and practically
the details, of the original.

