 "Very intelligent, but a man whose spirit it was impossible to subdue; and possessing an ambition which stopped
at nothing, he became involved in secret intrigues, and was degraded
from his rank by his Highness the Grand Duke, and exiled to Siberia." In mentioning these facts
General Scott adds that "it is painful to reflect that so amicable a settlement only meant
with one of the parties a postponement of revenge to a more convenient season."

This remark is in allusion to Scott's recall from the Indian War in 1836. General Jackson died
the 8th of June, 1845, General Scott being then at West Point. He was president of the Board
of Examiners, which was in session when the news was received. He at once arose, and, addressing
the board of visitors and academic staff, said: "Ex-President Jackson died at the Hermitage
on the 8th inst. The information is not official, but sufficiently authentic to prompt the
step I am about to take. An event of much moment to the nation has occurred. A great man has
fallen. General Jackson is dead--a great general, and a great patriot who had filled the highest
political stations in the gift of his countrymen. He is dead. This is not the place, nor am
I the individual, to pronounce a fit eulogy on the illustrious deceased. National honors will
doubtless be prescribed by the President of the United States; but in the meantime, and in
harmony with the feelings of all who hear me, and particularly with those of the authorities
of this institution, I deem it proper to suspend the examination of the cadets for the day,
and to await the orders of the Executive of the United States on the subject."

General Scott in his early training had studied the science of war, using the works of the
greatest and best-known authors. He was in his early life a close student, and when he entered
the army was, better equipped, in the knowledge of the standard authors on the science of war
than most men in the army. In 1821 he prepared a work entitled General Regulations for the
Army, or Military Institutes. This was the first book published in the United States which
could be accepted as a manual for both the regular troops of the army and the militia. He had
formerly, in 1814-'15, been president of a board of army officers which compiled a system of
infantry tactics, a copy of the system which he had used in the camp of instruction at Buffalo
in 1814. This was revised by another board, of which he was president, and was published in 1825.

In 1826 a board of army and militia officers was convened by order of the Secretary of War,
of which he was made president, for the purpose of reporting a plan for the organization and
instruction of the militia of the United States, a system of tactics for the artillery, a system
of cavalry tactics, and a system of infantry and rifle tactics. The reports on the plan for
the organization and instruction of the militia and that on the system of infantry and rifle
tactics were written wholly by General Scott, and adopted by the board. Under a resolution
of Congress in 1835 there was published a new edition of infantry tactics prepared by him. 

One day a slight scratching was heard. The men prepared to face the crumbling
of the barrier when through a small hole popped out the head of a brown
rabbit. Down into the trench hopped Mrs. Bunny, followed by two small
bunnies, and although rabbit for lunch would have improved the menu,
the men had not the heart to kill her.

On the contrary, they fed her on their rations, and at night-fall she departed,
followed by her progeny.

From all the dug-outs heads popped out, and the first movement of
surprise at seeing a woman in the trenches turned to a smile of delight,
since the poilu is at all times a chivalrous gentleman.

One man was telling me of the magnificent work that had been accomplished
by his "compagnie."

I congratulated
him and told him he must be happy to be in such a company.

He swept off his iron casque, bowed almost to the ground, and answered:
"Certainly I am happy in my company, mademoiselle, but I am far happier in
yours."

The principal grief of the poilus appeared to be that a shell two
or three days before had destroyed the store of the great dragée (sugared
almond) manufactory of Verdun.

Before leaving, the manufacturer had bequeathed his stock to the army, and they were all regretting
that they had not been greedier and eaten up the dragées quicker.

In the trenches near Verdun, as in the trenches in Flanders, you find
the men talking little of war, but much of their homes and their families.

I came once upon a group of Bretons. They had opened some tins of sardines
and, sitting around a bucket of blazing coals, they were toasting
the fish on the ends of small twigs.

I asked them why they were wasting their energies, since the fish were
ready to be eaten straight from the tins.

                                       

"We know," they replied; "but it smells like home." I suppose with the odour
of the cooking fish, in the blue haze of the smoke, they saw visions
of their cottages and the white-coiffed Bretonnes frying the fresh
sardines that they had caught.

The dusk was now falling, and, entering the car, we proceeded towards
the lower part of the town at a snail's pace in order not to draw
the German fire.

  We were told that at the present time approximately one hundred shells
a day still fall on Verdun, but at the time of the great attack the number
was as high as eight hundred, whilst as many as two hundred thousand
shells fell daily in and around Verdun.
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  Just before we reached the entrance to the citadel, the enemy began
to shell the city, and one of the shells exploded within two hundred
feet of the car.

  
  
  We knew that we were near the entrance to the vaults of the citadel and could
take refuge, so we left the car and proceeded on foot.

    

Without thinking, we walked in the centre of the road, and the sentinel
at the door of the citadel began in somewhat emphatic French to recommend
us to "longer les murs"

                                 

  
  
  
  

(to hug the
  walls tightly). The Germans are well aware of the entrance to
  the citadel and daily shell the spot.
  
  If one meets a shell in the centre of the road
  
  it is obviously no use to argue, whilst in hugging the side of the wall there
  is a possibility of only receiving the fragments of the bursting shell.

The
  
  subterranean galleries
  
  
of the citadel of Verdun were constructed by Vauban, and are now a hive of activity--barbers'
shops, sweet shops, boot shops, hospitals, anything and everything which
goes to make up a small city.

    

One of the young officers placed his "cell" at our disposal. The long
galleries are all equipped with central heating and electric light, and
some of them have been divided off by wooden partitions or curtains
like the dormitories in a large school.

In the "cell" allocated to us we could see the loving touch of a
woman's hand.

Around the pillow on the small camp-bed was a beautiful edging of Irish
lace, and on the dressing-table a large bottle of eau-de-Cologne.

There is no reason to be too uncomfortable in Verdun when one has a good little wife to think of one and
to send presents from time to time.

Emerging from the galleries we met General Dubois, a great soldier and a kindly man, one who shares the
daily perils of his men. The General invited us to remain and dine with him. He had that day received
from General Nivelle his cravate as Commander of the Legion of Honour, and his officers were giving him a dinner-party
to celebrate the event. "See how kind fate is to me," he added. "Only
one thing was missing from the feast--the presence of the ladies--and
here you are."

It would need the brush of Rembrandt to paint the dining-hall in the citadel
of Verdun. At one long table in the dimly lighted vault sat between
eighty and ninety officers, who all rose, saluted, and cheered as
we entered.

The General sat at the head of the table surrounded by his staff, and behind him the faces
of the cooks were lit up by the fires of the stoves. Some short distance
behind us was an air-shaft. It appears that about a week or a fortnight
before our arrival a German shell, striking the top part of the citadel,
dislodged some dust and gravel which fell down the air-shaft on to
the General's head.

He simply called the attendants to him and asked for his table to
be moved forward a yard, as he did not feel inclined to sit at table
with his helmet on.

An excellent dinner--soup, roast mutton, fresh beans, salade Russe,
frangipane, dessert--and even champagne to celebrate the General's
cravate--quite reassured us that people may die in Verdun of shells
but not of hunger.

We drank toasts to France, the Allies, and, silently, to the men of
France who had died that we might live.

I was asked to propose the health of the General, and did it in English, knowing that he spoke
English well.

I told him that the defenders of Verdun would live in our hearts and memories, that on behalf of the
whole British race I felt I might convey to him congratulations on
the honour paid to him by France.

I assured him that we had but one idea and one hope, the speedy victory of the Allied arms, and that personally
my present desire was that every one of those present at table might live to see the flag of France
waving over the whole of Alsace-Lorraine.

They asked me to repeat a description of the flag of France which I gave first
in Ottawa; so there, in the citadel of Verdun with a small French flag before me, I
went back in spirit to Ottawa and remembered how I had spoken of
the triumph of the flag of France: "The red, white, and blue--the
red of the flag of France a little deeper hue than in time of peace,
since it was dyed with the blood of her sons, the blood in which a
new history of France is being written, volume on volume, page on
page, of deeds of heroism, some pages completed and signed, others
where the pen has dropped from the faltering hands and which posterity
must needs finish.

The white of the flag of France, not quite so white as in time of
peace, since thousands of her sons had taken it in their hands and
pressed it to their lips before they went forward to die for it, yet
without stain, since in all the record of the war there is no blot
on the escutcheon of France.

And the blue of the flag of France, true blue, torn and tattered with
the marks of the bullets and the shrapnel, yet unfurling proudly in
the breeze whilst the very holes were patched by the blue of the sky,
since surely Heaven stands behind the flag of France."

The men of Verdun were full of admiration for the glorious Commander of the Fort
de Vaux. They told me that the fort was held, or rather the ruins of
the fort, until the Germans were actually on the top and firing on
the French beneath.

I discussed with my neighbour the fact that the Germans had more hatred
for us than for the French.

He said the whole world would ridicule the Germans for the manner in which
they had exploited the phrase "Gott strafe England," writing it even
on the walls anywhere and everywhere.

He
added laughingly that it should not worry the English comrades. "When
they read 'Gott strafe England,' all they needed to reply was 'Ypres,
Ypres--Hurrah!'"

  
  
  

He told me that he had been stationed for some time with his regiment near
the English troops, and there had been loud lamentations among the poilus
because they had been obliged to say good-bye to their English comrades.
He added that the affection was not entirely disinterested.

                                     

The English comrades had excellent marmalade and jam and other good
things which they shared with their French brothers, who, whilst excellently
fed, do not indulge in these luxuries. He told me a delightful tale
of a French cook who, seeing an English soldier standing by, began
to question him as to his particular branch of the service, informing
him that he himself had had an exceedingly busy morning peeling potatoes
and cleaning up the pots and pans.

                                        

  
  After considerable
  
  conversation he inquired of the English comrade what he did for his
living.

  
  
  
  "Oh," replied the Englishman, "I get my living fairly easily--nothing
  half so strenuous as peeling potatoes.
  
  I am just a colonel."

The clean-shaven Tommy is the beloved of all France.

  
  I remember seeing one gallant khaki knight carrying
  
  the market-basket of a French maiden and repaying himself out of her store of apples.
  I regret to say his pockets bulged suspiciously. Whilst at a level crossing near
  by, the old lady in charge of the gate had an escort of "Tommies" who urged
her to let the train "rip."

This was somewhat ironical in view of the fact that the top speed
in that part of the war zone was probably never more than ten miles
an hour.

  
  
Tommy is never alone.

  
  
The children have learned that he loves their company, and he is always
surrounded by an escort of youthful admirers. The children like to rummage
in his pockets for souvenirs.

He must spend quite a good deal of his pay purchasing sweets, so that
they may not be disappointed and that there may be something for his
little friends to find.

  
  I remember seeing one Tommy, sitting in the dusty road with a large pot of marmalade
  between his legs, dealing out spoonfuls with perfect justice
  
and impartiality to a circle of youngsters. He speaks to them of his own
little "nippers" at home, and they in turn tell him of their father who is fighting,
of their mother who now works in the fields, and of baby who is fearfully
ignorant, does not know the difference between the French and the
"Engleesch," and who insisted on calling the great English General
who had stayed at their farm "papa."

  
  
  It matters little that they cannot understand each other, and it does not in
the least prevent them from holding lengthy conversations.

I told my companion at table that whilst visiting one of the hospitals
in France I had heard how one Englishman had been sent into a far
hospital in Provence by mistake.

He was not seriously injured, and promptly constituted himself king
of the ward. On arrival, he insisted on being shaved. As no shaving-brush
was available, the piou-piou in the next bed lathered him with his
tooth-brush.

    

                                        

The French cooking did not appeal to him, and he grumbled continuously.

    The directress of the hospital sent her own cook from her château to cater
for Mr. Atkins.

An elaborate menu was prepared. Tommy glanced through it, ordered everything
to be removed, and commanded tea and toast. Toast-making is not a French
art, and the château chef was obliged to remain at the hospital and
spend his time carefully preparing the toast and seeing that it was
served in good condition.

When Mr. Atkins felt so disposed, he would summon a piou-piou to
give him a French lesson, or else request the various inmates of the
ward to sing to him.

He would in turn render that plaintive ditty "Down by the Old Bull and
Bush." A nurse who spoke a little English translated his song to
the French soldiers.

Whilst not desiring to criticise the rendez-vous selected by their
camarade anglais, they did not consider that "près d'un vieux taureau"

(near an old bull) was a safe or desirable meeting-place. When I explained
to the nurse that "The Bull and Bush" was a kind of cabaret, she hastened
from ward to ward to tell the men that after all the Englishman might
have selected a worse spot to entertain his girl.

He was at once
the joy and the despair of the whole hospital, and the nurse had much
trouble in consoling the patients when "our English" was removed.

When Tommy indulges in the use of the French language, he abbreviates
it as much as possible.

One hot summer's day, driving from Boulogne to Fort Mahon, halfway down
a steep hill we came upon two Tommies endeavouring to extract a motor-cycle
and a side-car from a somewhat difficult position.

They had side-slipped and run into a small tree.
The cycle was on one side and the side-car on the other, and a steel
rod between had been rammed right into the wood through the force
of the collision.

My three companions and myself endeavoured to help the men to pull
out the rod, but the united efforts of the six of us proved unavailing.
We hailed a passing cart and tied the reins around the motor-cycle,
but immediately the horse commenced to pull the leather of the reins
snapped.

Behind the cart walked a peasant.
Only one adjective can possibly describe him--he was decidedly "beery."
He made no attempt to help, but passed from one Tommy to the other,
patting them on their backs, assuring them "that with a little goodwill
all would be well."

There was a dangerous glint in the younger Tommy's
eye, but in the presence of ladies he refrained from putting his thoughts
into words. Finally, his patience evaporating, he suddenly turned
on the peasant and shouted at him, "Ong, ong." It took me some time
to grasp that this was Tommy's abbreviated version of "Allez-vous
en" ("Clear out"). In any event it proved quite useless, as he continued
to pat the Tommies affectionately and to bombard them with impracticable
suggestions.

We were joined later by three villagers, two gendarmes and a postman,
and all pulling together we managed to extract the rod from the tree.

A large lorry was passing, and on to it we heaved
the wreckage. Up clambered the Tommies followed by their unwelcome
friend, who managed to sit on the only unbroken portion of the side-car.

This
was too much for Messrs. Atkins' equanimity. Limp with laughter, we
watched them pass from sight amidst a chorus of "Ong, ong," followed
by flights of oratory in the English tongue which do not bear repeating,
but which were received by the peasant as expressions of deep esteem
and to which he replied by endeavouring to kiss the Tommies and shouting,
"Vive l'Angleterre!

Allright! Hoorah!"

Our guiding officer began to show some signs of anxiety to have us leave
before ten o'clock, but the good-byes took some time. Presents were showered
upon us--German dragées (shell heads and pieces of shrapnel) and
the real French dragées, the famous sweet of Verdun.

We
crept out of the city, but unfortunately at one of the dangerous
cross-roads our chauffeur mistook the route. A heavy bombardment was
taking place, and the French were replying. And if, in
attending to his duties, he should be so unfortunate as to lose his life, the army could get
along as well without him, but he could not get along without an army. Thus, with Roman firmness
and a disinterested devotion of life to his country, has he remained at his post of duty. Such
conduct deserves the highest praise, and we feel confident that it will be awarded by a grateful
and virtuous community."

The cholera having subsided by the middle of September, negotiations were opened with the various
Indian tribes at Rock Island. General Scott and Governor Reynolds were the commissioners on
the part of the United States to make treaties with the Sacs, Foxes, Winnebagoes, Sioux, and
Menomonees. The leading man among the Indians was Ke-o-Kuck, a Sac chief, who was of commanding
appearance, eloquent in speech, and a brave warrior. He was not, however, a hereditary chief,
and for this reason his tribe deposed him; but on General Scott's request he was again replaced
as chief. General Scott conducted the negotiations in the way of speech-making at the request
of his associate, Governor Reynolds. The speeches of Scott and those of the Indian chiefs were
taken down by Captain Richard Bache, of the army, and are to be found in the archives of the
War Department at Washington. The treaty also provided for ample space for hunting, and planting-grounds
for the Indians and their posterity. A similar treaty was made with the other Indians. General
Scott, on his return to Washington, was complimented by General Cass, the Secretary of War,
"upon the fortunate consummation of his arduous duties," and he expressed his entire approbation
of the whole course of his proceedings during a series of difficulties requiring higher moral
courage than the operations of an active campaign under ordinary circumstances.

On the conclusion of the treaties with the Indian tribes, mentioned in the preceding chapter,
General Scott went to New York, where he arrived in October, 1832. A few days after his arrival
he received an order to proceed to Washington.

The passage of the tariff act of 1828 had produced great excitement in several of the Southern
States, but especially in South Carolina. By this act the duties on foreign goods imported
into this country were raised much higher than by any previous tariff. It was passed for the
protection of American manufactures, of which at that time none were in the South, but all,
or nearly all, in the New England States.

The cotton planters of South Carolina opposed and resisted it on the ground that it was not
only in violation of the Constitution of the United States, but injurious to their interests,
and in the interest of other States as opposed to theirs. They argued, as it is now argued,
that a tariff is a tax, and that this tariff discriminated in favor of certain portions of
the country as against other portions, and that therefore it unquestionably violated the fundamental
law of the land. 

Massachusetts has achieved much in this respect; but when she shall have made high schools as free
and universal as common schools, and the attendance on both compulsory, so as to qualify every voter
for governing a State or nation, she will have made a still grander step in material and intellectual progress,
and the results would be still more astounding.

By Table 35 of the Census, p. 195, the whole value of all the property,
real and personal, of Massachusetts, in 1860, was $815,237,433, and
that of Maryland, $376,919,944.

We have seen that the value of the products that year in Massachusetts was
$287,000,000 (exclusive of commerce), and of Maryland, $66,000,000.
As a question, then, of profit on capital, that of Massachusetts
was 35 per cent., and of Maryland 17 per cent. Such is the progressive
advance (more than two to one) of free as compared with slave labor.

The same law obtains in comparing all the Free with all the Slave States. But the proof is still more
complete.

Thus, Delaware and Missouri (alone of all the Slave States) were ahead
of Maryland in this rate of profit, because both had comparatively
fewer slaves; and all the other Slave States, whose servile population
was relatively larger than that of Maryland, were below her in the
rate of profit.

The law extends to counties, those having comparatively fewest slaves increasing far more rapidly in wealth
and population.

This, then, is the formula as to the rate of profit on capital. First,
the Free States; next, the States and counties of the same State
having the fewest relative number of slaves.

The Census, then, is an evangel against slavery, and its tables are revelations proclaiming laws as divine
as those written by the finger of God at Mount Sinai on the tables
of stone.

For seventy years we have had these Census Tables, announcing these great truths
more and more clearly at each decade. They are the records of the nation's
movement and condition, the decennial monuments marking her steps in the path of
empire, the oracles of her destiny. They are prophecies, for each decade
fulfils the predictions of its predecessor. They announce laws, not made
by man, but the irrevocable ordinances of the Almighty.

We cannot, with impunity, refuse to obey these laws. For every violation, they enforce their own penalties. From these
there is no escape in the present or the past, nor for the future,
except in conformity to their demands. These laws condemn slavery;
and the punishment for disobedience is recorded in the result of
every Census, and finally culminated in the rebellion.

Slavery and freedom are antagonistic and discordant elements: the
conflict between them is upon us; it admits of no neutrality or compromise,
and one or the other system must perish.

We have seen that slavery is hostile to the progress of wealth and population:
let us now ascertain its influence on moral and intellectual development.

By
Table 15 of the Census of 1860, the result for that year was as follows:
In Massachusetts, value of books printed, $397,500; jobs, $529,347;
newspapers, $1,979,069; total, $2,905,916.

Same year in Maryland, books printed, $58,000; jobs, $122,000; newspapers,
$169,000; total, $350,155.

By Table 37, Census of 1860, Massachusetts had 222 newspapers and
periodicals, of which 112 were political, 31 religious, 51 literary,
miscellaneous 28.

Maryland had only 57, all political. The whole number of copies issued in Massachusetts in 1860 was
102,000,760, and in Maryland, 20,721,472.

Of periodicals, Massachusetts has monthly, 1 political, 10 religious, 18
literary, 7 miscellaneous; quarterly, religious 3, literary 2, miscellaneous
1, and 1 annual.

Maryland had none. Not a religious, literary, scientific, or miscellaneous periodical or journal in the
State!

What terrible truths are unfolded in these statistics!

None but a political party press in Maryland, all devoted, in 1860, to the maintenance, extension, and perpetuity
of slavery, which had 57 advocates, and not one for science, religion,
or literature.

We have seen that the circulation in 1860 of the press in Massachusetts exceeded
that of Maryland by more than eighty-one millions of copies.

These facts all prove that slavery is hostile to knowledge and its
diffusion, to science, literature, and religion, to the press, and
to free government.

For schools, colleges, libraries, and churches, I must take the Tables of the Census of 1850, those
of 1860 not being yet published.

There were in 1850 in Massachusetts, 3,679 public schools, 4,443 teachers,
176,475 pupils; native adults who cannot read or write, 1,861. In Maryland,
907 public schools, 1,005 teachers, 33,254 pupils; native adults
who cannot read or write, 38,426, excluding slaves, to teach whom
is criminal.

Thus, then, slavery is hostile to schools, withholding instruction
from the children of the poor.

The number of public libraries in Massachusetts was 1,462, volumes 684,015.
In Maryland, 124, and 125,042 volumes. Value of churches in Massachusetts,
$10,206,000.

In Maryland, $3,947,884, of which $2,541,240 is in Baltimore (which has very few slaves), and the
remainder is mainly in the seven counties (from which slavery has
nearly disappeared) adjoining Pennsylvania.

As
to schools, colleges, books, libraries, churches, newspapers, and periodicals,
it thus appears that Massachusetts is greatly in advance of Maryland.

  
  
  
  
  Now, then, let us contrast loyal Maryland with rebel South Carolina, the author
  of secession, and assuming for many years to instruct the nation. By the
  Census of 1860, she had a population of 703,708, of whom
  402,406 were slaves; and Maryland, numbering 687,049,
  
  had 87,189 slaves. Now, by the
  
Census of 1860, South Carolina had 45 journals and periodicals, and
her annual circulation was 3,654,840 copies.

The circulation therefore of Massachusetts exceeded that of South Carolina
more than ninety-eight millions of copies, while Maryland exceeded South
Carolina more than seventeen millions of copies.

  
  
  
  
  
  So much for South Carolina as a great political teacher. As to schools
  in 1850: South Carolina had 724 public schools, 739 teachers, 17,838 pupils.
  Massachusetts, then, had 158,637 more pupils at public schools
  
  than South Carolina,
  
  
and Maryland 15,416 more pupils at public schools than South Carolina.

The
press of Massachusetts, we have seen, circulated in 1860 upward of
one hundred and two millions of copies, equal to 279,454 per day,
including journals and periodicals, each read, on an average, by at
least two persons.

  
  
  This is independent of books and pamphlets, and of the very large circulation
of papers from other States and from Europe. What a flood of light is
thus shed daily and hourly upon the people of Massachusetts! This intellectual
effulgence radiates by day and night.

  

It is the sun in its meridian splendor, and the stars in an ever-unclouded firmament.
It has a centre and a circumference, but no darkness. Ignorance vanishes before it;
wealth follows in its train; labor rejoices in its association, and
finds its products more than doubled; freedom hails its presence, and
religion gives it a cordial welcome; churches, schools, academies,
colleges, and universities acknowledge its mighty influence.

                                               

Science penetrates the secrets of nature, and unfolds each new discovery
for the benefit of man.

Coal, the offspring of the sun, develops its latent energy, and water
contributes its untiring hydraulic power. Machinery takes more and more
the place of nerves and muscles, cheapens clothing and subsistence
and all the necessaries of life, and opens new fields of industry,
and more profitable employment for labor.

Steam and lightning become the slaves of man. He performs the journey of a day in an hour, and converses
in minutes around the globe. The strength of man may not have been much increased, but his power
is augmented a thousand fold.

His life may not have been materially lengthened, but, in the march
of knowledge, a year now is as a century, compared with man's progress
in the darkness of the middle ages.

The eternal advance toward omniscience goes on, but is like that of the
infinite approach of the asymptote, which never reaches the hyperbolic
curve.

The onward of science is in a geometrical ratio, so that in time,
the intellectual progress of a day in the future, must exceed that
of a century in the past.

Knowledge is enthroned as king, and grand truths and new ideas are
his ministers. Science takes the diameter of the earth's orbit as
a base line and unit of measurement, and with it spans immensity,
and triangulates the nebulous systems amid the shadowy verges of receding
space.

Its researches are cosmical upon the earth and the heavens, and all the elements minister to its progress.
Sink to the lowest mine, or fathom the ocean's depth, or climb the
loftiest mountains, or career through the heavens on silken wings,
and it is there also.

On--on--on; nearer--nearer--still nearer it moves forever and forever, with accelerated speed, toward
the infinite eternal.

Such are the triumphs of knowledge; and he who diffuses it among our race,
or discovers and disseminates new truths, advances man nearer to
his Creator; he exalts the whole race; he elevates it in the scale
of being, and raises it into higher and still higher spheres.

It is science that marks the speed of sound and light and lightning,
calculates the eclipses, catalogues the stars, maps the heavens, and
follows, for centuries of the past and the future, the comet's course.

It explores the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. With geology,
it notes the earthquake upheaval of mountains, and, with mineralogy,
the laws of crystallization.

With chemistry, it analyzes, decomposes, and compounds the elements.

If,
like Canute, it cannot arrest the tidal wave, it is subjecting it
to laws and formulas.

Taking the sunbeam for its pencil, it heliographs man's own image,
and the scenery of the earth and the heavens.

Has science any limits or horizon?

Can it ever penetrate the soul of man, and reveal the mystery of
his existence and destiny?

It
is certainly exploring the facts of sociology, arranging and generalizing
them, and deducing laws.

Man, elevated by knowledge in the scale of being, controls the forces
of nature with greater power and grander results, and accumulates
wealth more rapidly.

The educated free labor of Massachusetts, we have seen, doubles the
products of toil, per capita, as compared with Maryland, and quadruples
them (as the Census shows) compared with South Carolina.

One day's labor of a man in Massachusetts is more than equal to two
in Maryland, and four in South Carolina.

So, if we take our savage tribes, with their huts and tents, their rude
agriculture, their furs, their few and simple household manufactures,
their hunting and fishing, the average product of their annual labor,
at four cents a day each, would be $14.60 a year, or more than a
fourth of that of South Carolina (56.91).

So that Massachusetts, in material progress, is farther in advance
of South Carolina than that State is of the savage Indians.

Thus we have the successive steps and gradations of man: Massachusetts, with free labor and free schools,
having reached the highest point of civilization: South Carolina, with slavery and ignorance (except
the few), in a semi-barbarous stage; and the lowest savage condition,
called barbarous, but nearer to South Carolina than that State to
Massachusetts.

Slavery, then, the Census proves, is hostile to the progress of wealth and
population, to science, literature, and education, to schools, colleges,
and universities, to books and libraries, to churches and religion,
to the press, and therefore to free government; hostile to the poor,
keeping them in want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing it
to servitude, and decreasing two thirds the value of its products; hostile
to morals, repudiating among slaves the marital and parental condition,
classifying them by law as chattels, darkening the immortal soul, and
making it a crime to teach millions of human beings to read or write.

And shall labor and education, literature and science, religion and
the press, sustain an institution which is their deadly foe?

The discussion will be continued in my next letter.

R. J. WALKER.

PALMER, THE AMERICAN SCULPTOR.

Sculpture
as an art is probably anterior to painting. Form being a simpler
quality than color, the means of imitation were found in a conformity
of shape rather than hue. The origin of sculpture is somewhat obscured
in the thickening mists of antiquity, but it was no doubt one of
the earliest symbols of ideas made use of by man.

In fact, in
its primitive development, there is considerable evidence to show that
it was the first essay at a recorded language. The Egyptian hieroglyphics,
those mysterious etchings upon the rock, representing animals, men,
and nondescript characters, were unquestionably rude attempts to
hand down to posterity some account of the great events of those forgotten
ages.

The next remove in the history of this art
is its employment in the production of the images of idolatrous worship;
and, when confined to this purpose, it never attained any appreciable
excellence.

The purely heathen mind was incapable of conceiving those
forms of ideal beauty which are born of the contemplation of a divine
and spiritual beauty revealed in the word of God and the teachings
of his immaculate Son.

The grotesque Egyptian images worshipped on the Nile before the building
of the pyramids, are, judging from the best preserved antiquities,
not very much inferior to the gilded deities to be seen to-day in
the thousand pagodas of heathen lands.

Take for example a Chinese idol of modern make: while it is less angular
and more elaborately finished than the ancient monstrosities found in
Egypt, still, so far as perfection of form or beauty of expression
is concerned, there is little to choose between the two. Each is a
fitting type of the degree of civilization and soul culture of the
peoples that produced them.

It must not be urged that the success
of sculpture in Greece and Rome disproves the proposition that the
art could not develop itself among a strictly idolatrous race.

The splendid mythologies of the Greeks and Romans must not be considered
as the highest forms even of the worship of idols or inanimate things.
The gods and goddesses of these mythological systems were principally
the powers that were supposed to preside over the different forces and
elements of nature, and were invested with the celestial attributes of
a higher order of beings. Neptune ruled the sea, Pluto was director
of ceremonies in the infernal regions, while Jupiter was emperor
of the sky and king of all the lesser gods.

These deities were the invention of a cultivated intellect, a refined
taste and polished civilization, and furnish a striking proof of
man's longing after the Infinite, unguided by the star of revelation. He argued that this was
an encroachment by the Creeks, and that an increase of Indians in this territory would lead
to unhappy results. Colonel Joseph M. White, the delegate from the territory of Florida, fully
concurred with General Jackson in this view, and so informed the Secretary of War.

The Government, disregarding these wise suggestions, entered into a treaty with the Florida
Indians, September 18, 1823, at Camp Moultrie, stipulating for their continued residence in
the territory for twenty years. He has given us the aid of His ministers, and His Sacraments, and His Holy
Scriptures, and the Ancient Creed. To others, Scripture is a sealed book, though they hold it in
their hands; but to us it is in good measure an open book, through God's mercy, if we but use our
advantages, if we have but spiritual eyes and ears, to read and hear it faithfully. To others, the
Sacraments and other rites are but dead ordinances, carnal ceremonies,
which profit not, like those of the Jewish Law, outward forms, beggarly
elements, as they themselves often confess; but to us, if we have
faith, they are full of grace and power.

Thus all we have been chosen by God's grace unto salvation, in a special
way, in which many others around us have not been chosen, as God passed
over David's seven brethren, and chose him.

2. Observe, too. God chose him, whose occupation was that of a shepherd;
for He chooses not the great men of the world. He passes by the rich
and noble; He chooses "the poor, rich in faith, and heirs of the
kingdom which He hath promised to them that love Him[3]," as St. James
says.

David was a shepherd.

The Angel appeared to the shepherds as they kept watch over their
sheep at night.

The most solitary, the most unlearned, God hears, God looks upon,
God visits, God blesses, God brings to glory, if he is but "rich in
faith."

Many of you are not great in this world, my brethren, many of you are
poor; but the greatest king upon earth, even Solomon in all his glory, might
well exchange places with you, if you are God's children; for then
you are greater than the greatest of kings.

Our Saviour said, that even the lilies of the field were more gloriously
arrayed than Solomon; for the lily is a living thing, the work of
God; and all the glories of a king, his purple robe, and his jewelled
crown, all this is but the dead work of man; and the lowest and humblest
work of God is far better and more glorious than the highest work
of man.

But if this be true, even of God's lower works, what shall
be said of His higher? The points agreed upon were that the Seminole Indians relinquish
their claim to the tract of land reserved for them by the second article of the Camp Moultrie
treaty, containing four million thirty-two thousand six hundred and forty acres, and to remove
west of the Mississippi River and there become a constituent part of the Creeks.

The United States engaged to pay the Seminoles fifteen thousand four hundred dollars as a consideration
for the improvements on the lands which they abandoned, and a further sum of two hundred dollars
each to two negroes, Abraham and Cudjoe, each Indian to be furnished with a blanket and homespun
frock, and a sufficient quantity of corn, meat, and salt for one year's support after arriving
in the new reservation. Two blacksmiths, at one thousand dollars a year, were agreed to be
furnished for a period of ten years, and an annuity of three thousand dollars for fifteen years
to be paid after their arrival in the West; which sum, together with the four thousand dollars
stipulated for in the Camp Moultrie treaty, making seven thousand dollars per annum, was to
be paid to the Creek nation with their annuities.

In order to relieve the Seminoles from vexatious demands on them for their slaves and other
property, the United States stipulated to have the matter investigated, and to liquidate such
as were satisfactory, provided the amount did not exceed seven thousand dollars. This treaty
was executed on May 9, 1832, and signed by Holata Amathla and fourteen other chiefs. Seven
of the chiefs were deputed to visit and explore the new country, accompanied by their interpreter
and by Major John Fagan, formerly Indian agent in Florida. The delegation reported their approval
of the country, and the ratification on the part of the Indians was made by seven of the chiefs
at Fort Gibson, La.

This ratification by the seven chiefs was in excess of their authority, as they were only authorized
to examine the country and report the result of their mission to a general council of the nation,
which was to be convened on their return. CORNET SOLO--

Mr. J. LEVY.

6. ORATION--

Hon. ABRAM S. HEWITT.

7.

ORATION--

Rev. RICHARD S. STORRS, D.D.

8.

MUSIC--

7th REGIMENT BAND.

Hon. JAMES S.T. STRANAHAN will preside.

INTRODUCTORY.

The New York and Brooklyn
Bridge was formally opened on Thursday, May 24th, 1883, with befitting
pomp and ceremonial, in the presence of the largest multitude that
ever gathered in the two cities.

From the announcement by the Trustees of the date which was to mark the turning-over
of the work to the public, it was evident that the popular demonstration
would be upon a scale commensurate with the magnificence of the structure
and its importance to the people of the United States. The evidences
of widespread and profound interest in the event were early and unmistakable.

They were not confined to the metropolis and its sister city on the
Long Island shore, nor yet to the majestic Empire State. The occurrence was
recognized as one of National importance; and throughout the Union,
from the rocky headlands of Maine to the golden shores of the Pacific,
and from the gleaming waters of the St. Lawrence to the vast expanse
of the Mexican Gulf, the opening ceremonies were regarded with intelligent
concern and approval.

Nearly every State contributed its representatives to the swelling throng
that attended, while those who were unable to be present contemplated
with pride and satisfaction the completion and consecration to its
purpose of the greatest engineering work of modern times.

In the communities most directly benefited by the Bridge the demonstration
was confined to no class or body of the populace.

It was a holiday for high and low, rich and poor; it was, in fact, the
People's Day. More delightful weather never dawned upon a festal
morning. The heavens were radiant with the celestial blue of approaching
summer; silvery fragments of cloud sailed gracefully across the firmament
like winged messengers, bearing greetings of work well done; the clearest
of spring sunshine tinged everything with a touch of gold, and a
brisk, bracing breeze blown up from the Atlantic cooled the atmosphere
to a healthful and invigorating temperature.

The incoming dawn revealed the twin cities gorgeous in gala attire. From towering steeple and lofty façade,
from the fronts of business houses and the cornices and walls of private dwellings, from the forests
of shipping along the wharves and the vessels in the dimpled bay, floated bunting fashioned in every
conceivable design, while high above all, from the massive and enduring granite towers of the Bridge the Stars
and Stripes signaled to the world from the gateway of the continent
the arrival of the auspicious day.

Almost before the sun was up the thoroughfares of both cities put on a festival appearance. Business
was generally suspended. The mercantile and professional communities vied with one another in the extent
and splendor of their decorations, while from the hearty voice of Labor arose a chorus of ringing
acclamation. Tens of thousands of men, women and children crowded into the streets, and, after gazing admiringly
upon the decorations, wended their way in the direction of the mighty river span. From neighboring
cities and from the adjacent country for many miles around the incoming
trains brought multitudes of excursionists and sight-seers.

It seemed marvelous that they could all find accommodation, but the generous hospitality of the cities
was cordially extended, and all were adequately provided for.

The scenes presented during the day upon the streets and avenues of New
York and Brooklyn will never be forgotten by those who witnessed them.
Notwithstanding the enormous massing of people, the best of order
was everywhere observable, and the day happily was free from any accident
of a serious nature.

The arrangements for the celebration were of a sensible and becoming character, and beside insuring an unobstructed
and speedy course for the ceremonies, contributed beyond measure
to the popular enjoyment.

Early in the afternoon the President of the United States, Gen. Chester A. Arthur, and the Hon. Grover
Cleveland, Governor of the State of New York, the former accompanied
by the members of his Cabinet and the latter by the officers of his
Staff, were escorted from the Fifth Avenue Hotel to the New York City
Hall, where they were joined by his Honor Mayor Franklin Edson and
the New York officials.

From
the City Hall the procession proceeded to the New York Approach to
the Bridge.

The Seventh Regiment, N.G., S.N.Y., Col. Emmons Clark, commanding, acted as escort to the Presidential
and Gubernatorial party. The regimental band, of 75 pieces, headed the column and played
popular airs as the procession moved along the crowded and gaily decorated
thoroughfares. At the New York Tower a battalion of the Fifth United States Artillery,
under command of Major Jackson, joined the escort, and between the
lines of brilliantly uniformed troops the distinguished guests passed
upon the roadway.

They were formally received by a Committee of the Bridge Trustees, headed
by Mr. William C. Kingsley, Vice-President and acting President of
the Board.

The arrival at the New York Tower was proclaimed to the multitudes on
shore by the thundering of many cannon. Salutes were fired from the
forts in the harbor, from the United States Navy Yard, and from the
summit of Fort Greene.

The United States fleet, consisting of the "Tennessee," the "Yantic," the "Kearsarge,"
the "Vandalia," and the "Minnesota," Rear-Admiral George H. Cooper,
commanding, was anchored in the river below the Bridge and joined
in the salute.

As the procession moved across the roadway the yards of the men-of-war
were manned, and from the docks and factories arose a tremendous babel
of sounds, caused by the clanging of bells, the roaring of steam whistles,
and the cheers of enthusiastic people, while sounding from afar, in
delightful contrast with the clamorous discord, the silver chimes
of Trinity rang out upon the river.

In the ornate iron railway depot at the Brooklyn terminus, where the
exercises were to take place, the arrival of the approaching procession
was anxiously awaited.

The interior was bright with tasteful decorations, the prevailing
feature being the sky-blue hangings of satin bordered with silver,
and the coats-of-arms of the States appropriately interspersed amid
a forest of flags.

On the Brooklyn side the duties of escort were transferred to the 23d Regiment, N.G., S.N.Y., Colonel Rodney
C. Ward commanding.

The regiment appeared upon this occasion for the first time in their new
State service uniform, and performed their duties most efficiently.

The
arrangements for the procession and exercises were under the direction
of Major-General James Jourdan, commanding the Second Division, N.G.,
S.N.Y., who was ably assisted by the members of the Division Staff.

The building was thronged in every part.

In the
throng were many of the most conspicuous citizens of New York and other States, including representatives
of the bench, the bar, the pulpit, the press, and all other professions. Beside the President and his Cabinet,
consisting of the Hon. Charles J. Folger, Secretary of the Treasury; the
Hon. William E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy; the Hon. Henry M.
Teller, Secretary of the Interior; the Hon. Walter Q. Gresham, Postmaster-General,
and the Hon. Benjamin Harris Brewster, Attorney-General; and Governor
Cleveland and Staff, there were present the Governors of several States
and the Mayors of nearly all the cities in the vicinity of the metropolis.

In the vast assemblage none were more conspicuous than the officers
of the Army and Navy, who occupied an entire section and attracted
general attention.

When the Presidential party and their escort entered the hall they were greeted with enthusiastic
cheers. They occupied seats directly opposite the stand erected for
the orators of the day.

The exercises proceeded without delay in an orderly manner, and were
appropriate and impressive throughout.

Music
was furnished during the ceremonies by the bands of the Seventh and
Twenty-third regiments.

The Hon. James S.T. Stranahan presided with the skill and dignity gained
during his long experience in public life.

Near him were the speakers, Mr. William C. Kingsley, Rev. Richard
S. Storrs, D.D., the Hon. Abram S. Hewitt, Mayor Franklin Edson, of
New York, and Mayor Seth Low, of Brooklyn, together with the members
of the Board of Bridge Trustees.

Mr. Stranahan opened the ceremonies by introducing Bishop Littlejohn, who
wore the Episcopal robes. The Bishop fervently and impressively made the
opening prayer, the great assemblage bowing their heads reverentially
during its delivery.

Vice-President Kingsley was next introduced, and was received with hearty applause. Mr. Kingsley, in clear
and distinct tones, and in comprehensive and business-like terms, proceeded
to make the formal speech presenting the Bridge to the cities of New
York and Brooklyn.

The address was heard with careful attention, and upon its conclusion
a round of enthusiastic applause swept through the building.

His Honor Mayor Low followed Mr. Kingsley with a concise and appropriate speech, receiving the structure
on behalf of the City of Brooklyn. His address elicited several demonstrations
of approval from the audience.

The
Hon. Franklin Edson, Mayor of New York, who was the next speaker, was
heartily applauded as he aptly accepted the Bridge in behalf of the
authorities of the great metropolis.

When Mr. Hewitt was introduced as the orator on the part of New York
City, he was warmly cheered. His eloquent address riveted the attention
of his hearers from beginning to end, and his pointed and conclusive vindication
of the bridge management from the outset aroused the enthusiasm of
his hearers to the utmost pitch.

Following Mr. Hewitt came the Rev. Richard S. Storrs, D.D., who delivered
the oration on behalf of Brooklyn.

Never
did the distinguished preacher appear to better advantage, and his oration, which was punctuated
with applause, was characterized as a masterpiece by all who heard
it.

Upon the conclusion of his address the presiding officer declared the exercises at an end, and the company
in the building dispersed.

The festivities, however, did not end with the conclusion of the formal
ceremonies.

The celebration was continued in both cities throughout the day and far into the night. Thousands upon thousands
of enthusiastic people crowded the streets. After the ceremonies, the President, the Governor, the speakers
of the day, and the Trustees were driven to the residence of Col.
Washington A. Roebling, on Columbia Heights, where a reception was
held.

As they passed through the streets the people cheered as people only can who cheer in the atmosphere
of a free government. From Col. Roebling's house the company proceeded to the residence of Mayor Low,
where they were entertained at a banquet.

In the evening, under the auspices of the Municipal authorities, a
grand reception to President Arthur and Governor Cleveland was given
by the citizens of Brooklyn at the Academy of Music, and was attended
by a great multitude.

Another striking feature of the celebration at night was the display
of fireworks on the Bridge given under the direction of the Board
of Trustees.

The pyrotechnic exhibition was viewed by almost the entire populace
of the two cities, and a vast concourse of visitors from abroad.

The East River was fairly blocked with craft of every description bearing
legions of delighted spectators, and the streets and housetops were
packed with people.

The display was generally characterized as one of the grandest ever
witnessed in America.

The people of both cities evinced their public spirit in the decorations
by day and the illuminations by night.

The illuminations in Brooklyn, particularly, were on a magnificent
scale, and excited the admiration of multitudes of visitors to the
city.

In addition to the special features of the celebration there were
many entertainments in honor of the event, including concerts in the
various city parks.

Throughout the afternoon and evening the best of order was preserved;
the casualties that occurred were few and unimportant, and the auspicious
day ended without the intrusion of anything that would carry with
it other than pleasant memories of the significant event which it
commemorated.

ORDER OF RELIGIOUS SERVICES,

CONDUCTED BY RT. Deut. vii.: 9.

Remember the marvelous works that He hath done: His wonders, and the
judgments of his mouth.

Psalm cv.: 5.

Marvelous things did He in the sight of our forefathers, in the land
of Egypt, even in the field of Zoan.

He divided the sea, and let them go through: He made the waters to
stand on an heap.

In the day time also He led them with a cloud, and all the night through
with a light of fire.

Psalm lxxviii.: 13, 14, 15.

Psalm cvii.: 21.

The Lord hath been mindful of us, and He shall bless us; He shall bless
them that fear the Lord, both small and great. Psalm cxv.: 12, 13.

Praise ye the Lord:

The Lord's name be praised.

* * * * *

PRAYER.

Almighty
God, who hast in all ages showed forth Thy power and mercy in the preservation and advancement of the race
redeemed by the precious blood of Thy dear Son: we yield Thee our unfeigned thanks and praise as for all Thy
public mercies, so especially for the signal manifestation of Thy Providence which we commemorate this
day. All things--wealth, industry, energy, skill, genius--come of Thee; and when we consecrate their
triumphs unto Thee, we give Thee but Thine own. Enable us to see in the strength and grandeur of this structure
the evident tokens of Thy power, bringing mighty things to pass through
the weakness of Thy creatures. Give us grace and wisdom to discern
in all this work the nobler uses it was ordained by Thee to subserve.

Teach us to know that all this mighty fabric is but vanity, save as it shall promote Thy sovereign purpose
toward the sons of men. O Lord God, clothed with majesty and honor,
decking Thyself with light as with a garment, and spreading out the
heavens like a curtain, with the beams of Thy chambers in the waters,
and the clouds for Thy chariot, walking upon the wings of the wind,
Thy messengers spirits and Thy ministers a flaming fire, accept, we
beseech Thee, this last and chiefest fruit of human toil and genius
as a tribute to Thy glory, and a new power making for righteousness
and peace amid all conflicts of earthly interests, and all the stir
and pomp of worldly aggrandizement.

Our life is a thing of nought, and our purposes vanish away; but
Thy years shall not fail, and with Thee the beginning and the end
are the same.

Therefore we implore Thee to bless and direct this work, that it
shall be more than a highway for the things that perish, even a path
of Thy eternal Spirit lifting by His own infinite grace, more and
more, as the years roll on, the people of these cities toward the
plane of Thine own life--the life of endless peace, of absolute unity,
and perfect love, through Jesus Christ, the one Redeemer and Mediator
between God and man.

Amen.

ADDRESS OF WM. C. KINGSLEY,

PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.

In the presence of this great assemblage, and of the chosen representatives
of the people of these two great cities, of the Governor of the State of New
York and of the President of the United States, the pleasing duty
devolves upon me, as the official agent of the Board of Trustees of
the New York and Brooklyn Bridge, to announce formally to the chief
magistrates of these two municipalities that this Bridge is now ready
to be opened for public use, and is subject in its control and management
only to such restrictions as the people, to whom it belongs, may choose
to impose upon themselves.

If I were at liberty to consult my own wishes I should not attempt
to occupy your attention any further.

I am not here as the spokesman of my associates in the Board of Bridge Trustees. They are well content
to let this great structure speak for them, and to speak more fittingly and more eloquently yet for the skillful,
faithful and daring men who have given so many years of their lives--and in several instances even their lives--to
the end that the natural barrier to the union, growth and greatness of this great commercial centre
should be removed, and that a vast scientific conception should be matched
in the skill, and courage, and endurance upon which it depended
for its realization. With one name, in an especial sense, this Bridge
will always be associated--that of Roebling.

At the outset of this enterprise we were so fortunate as to be able to secure the services of
the late John A. Roebling, who had built the chief suspension bridges in this country, and who had just
then completed the largest suspension bridge ever constructed up to that time. His name and achievements
were of invaluable service to this enterprise in its infancy. They secured for it a confidence not
otherwise obtainable.

He entered promptly and with more than professional zeal into the work of erecting a bridge over the East River.
As is universally known, while testing and perfecting his surveys his foot was
crushed between the planks of one of our piers; lockjaw supervened,
and the man who designed this Bridge lost his life in its service. The
main designs were, however, completed by the elder Roebling before
he met his sad and untimely death.

He was succeeded at once by his son, Colonel Washington A. Roebling, who
had for years before shared in his father's professional confidences and
labors. Here the son did not succeed the father by inheritance merely.
The elder Roebling, according to his own statements, would not have
undertaken the conduct of this work at his age--and he was independent
of mere professional gain--if it were not for the fact, as he frequently
stated, that he had a son who was entirely capable of building this
Bridge.

Indeed, the elder Roebling advised that the son, who was destined to carry on and complete the work, should be placed
in chief authority at the beginning. The turning point--as determining
the feasibility of this enterprise--was reached down in the earth,
and under the bed of the East River. During the anxious days and nights
while work was going on within the caissons, Colonel Roebling seemed
to be always on hand, at the head of his men, to direct their efforts,
and to guard against a mishap or a mistake which, at this stage of
the work, might have proved to be disastrous.

The foundations of the towers were successfully laid, and the problem of the feasibility of the Bridge was
solved. Colonel Roebling contracted the mysterious disease in the caissons which had proved fatal to several
of the workmen in our employ. For many long and weary years this man,
who entered our service young and full of life, and hope, and daring,
has been an invalid and confined to his home.

He has never seen
this structure as it now stands, save from a distance. But the disease, which
has shattered his nervous system for the time, seemed not to have enfeebled his mind.
It appeared even to quicken his intellect. His physical infirmities shut
him out, so to speak, from the world, and left him dependent largely on
the society of his family, but it gave him for a companion day and night this darling
child of his genius--every step of whose progress he has directed and watched
over with paternal solicitude.

Colonel Roebling may never walk across this Bridge, as so many of his fellow-men
have done to-day, but while this structure stands he will make all who
use it his debtor.

His infirmities are still such that he who would be the centre of interest
on this occasion, and even in this greatly distinguished company, is conspicuous
by his absence. This enterprise was only less fortunate in securing an executive
head than in obtaining scientific direction. For sixteen years together the
late Hon. Henry C. Murphy stood for this work wherever it challenged the enmity of
an opponent or needed an advocate, a supporter and a friend. He devised the
legislation under which it was commenced.

He staked in its inception a large portion of his private fortune on its success.
He upheld its feasibility and utility before committees, and legislatures,
and law courts, and in every forum of public discussion. For years he looked
forward to this day to fittingly close the activities of a long, useful and,
in many respects, an illustrious career. It was not permitted him to see
it, but he saw very near the end, and he lived long enough to realize,
what is now admitted, that he was to the end of his days engaged in
a work from which the name of the city he loved so well will never
be disassociated, for it is a work the history of which will for all
time be embraced in the records of the achievements of American enterprise
and of American genius.

I am sure I speak for the Board of Trustees in returning their thanks
to all the professional gentlemen who have been in our employ--and especially
to Messrs. Martin, Paine, Farrington, McNulty and Probasco.

For the most part these men have been engaged on the Bridge from its commencement
to its completion. It has always seemed to the Trustees as if the highest
and the humblest workmen engaged on this work were alike influenced by the
spirit of enterprise in which the Bridge had its origin.

Men whose
daily compensation was not more than sufficient to provide them and
their families with their daily bread were at all times ready to
take their lives in their hands in the performance of the imperative
and perilous duties assigned them.

In the direct prosecution of the work twenty men lost their lives.
Peace hath its victories, and it has its victims and its martyrs,
too. Of the seven consulting engineers to whom the matured plans of
the elder Roebling were submitted--all men of the highest eminence
in their profession--three have passed away, and four are living to witness,
in the assured success of this structure, the one ratification of
their judgment which cannot be questioned.

It remains for me to say, in conclusion, that the two cities rose at all
times to the level of the spirit of our time and country. Their citizens
staked millions on what seemed to many to be an experiment--a structure,
it was often said, that at its best would not be of any actual use.
How solid it is; how far removed it is from all sense of apprehension;
how severely practical it is in all its relations, and how great a factor
in the corporate lives of these cities it is destined to be, we all
now realize. This Bridge has cost many millions of dollars, and it has
taken many years to build it.

May I say on
this occasion that the people whom you represent (turning to where
the Mayors of the two cities stood together) would not part with the
Bridge to-day for even twice or thrice its cost? And may I remind those
who, not unnaturally, perhaps, have been disappointed and irritated by delays
in the past, that those who enter a race with Time for a competitor have
an antagonist that makes no mistakes, is subject to no interference and
liable to no accident.

ADDRESS OF HON. SETH LOW,

MAYOR OF THE CITY OF BROOKLYN.

GENTLEMEN OF THE TRUSTEES--With profound satisfaction, on behalf of
the City of Brooklyn, I accept the completed Bridge. Fourteen times
the earth has made its great march through the heavens since the
work began.
 A small command was
at once dispatched to succor and pursue, but the butchery had been as brief as it was complete,
and a last war-whoop had been given as a signal for retreat. The bodies of General Thompson,
Lieutenant Smith, and Mr. Kitzler were soon found and brought in; those of the others were
not found until the following morning. General Thompson's body had fourteen bullets in it and
a deep knife-wound in the left breast. Lieutenant Smith and Mr. Kitzler had each received two
bullets in the head. The bodies of Rogers the sutler and Robert Suggs were shockingly mangled,
the skulls of each being broken, and all save Suggs were scalped. The party was led by Assiola,
and consisted of fifty or sixty Micosukees. Two other Indians were in the party attired as
chiefs, but were not recognized. This information comes from an old negro woman who was in
the house and who concealed herself so as to elude the Indians, and made her escape to the
fort after the massacre.

Information of the butchery was at once dispatched to General Clinch. General Richard Keith
Call, with Colonels Richard C. Parish and Leigh Read, having arrived on the 29th with about
five hundred volunteers from the adjoining counties, who had previously been ordered to scour
the country on the right and left flank, joined the United States troops, numbering about two
hundred under General Clinch. Orders were issued for a forward movement at sunrise on December
29th. They arrived near the Ouithlacoochee on the 30th, and threw up breastworks around their
encampment. On arriving at the river next morning it was found too deep to be forded. No Indians
being in sight, one of the men swam the river and brought over a canoe. As only seven men could
be taken over at a time, the work of crossing the troops was slow and tedious. General Clinch
and Colonels Samuel Parkhill and Read crossed over, and, in conjunction with General Call,
began the construction of rafts on which the baggage and stores could be crossed over. "Clearly, there
are two men in England who must be sent into permanent retirement. Depend on it, there is something
fundamentally wrong with them. It is a pity, for they are stuffed
with the rarest of virtues--though I say it, who should not.

One of them is Sir Edward Grey and the other is G.B.S."

Only
in France, whose people are making supreme sacrifices, and in Russia, whose factories are not yet
organized for the nation, does industrial peace prevail.

In England the Munitions bill, with its proposals for compulsory arbitration
and for limiting profits unweakened, was passed on July 1st. The bill
retained, also, the power for the Government to proclaim the extension
of its strike-stopping authority to other trades than the munitions
trades. A second charge was more successful,
driving the Indians some distance back. The chiefs made every effort to rally them, but without
success.

During the battle General Call, Colonel John Warren, and Major James G. Cooper, with a number
of volunteers, crossed the river at imminent peril, and the two latter immediately engaged
and fought with the most determined bravery. General Call had formed the volunteers that last
crossed into two parallel lines, placing one above and the other below the crossing place,
for the purpose of protecting the troops on the other side and those who were recrossing with
the dead and wounded. He therefore did not reach the field until the enemy were repulsed, though
his services were eminently useful in directing the crossing. Clinch at this time was not advised
of the disaster to Major Dade's command.

The term of service of the volunteers having expired, General Clinch marched them, on January
2d, to Fort Drane and disbanded them. In this last-named engagement the regulars and volunteers,
numbering, all told, two hundred and twenty-seven men--under the able leadership of Clinch,
Major Campbell Graham, Major Fanning, Colonel John Warren, General Richard K. Call, Cooper,
and Lieutenant George Read--succeeded in defeating over seven hundred Indians who had chosen
their ground and were protected by the swamps and hammocks. The volunteer officers, to whom
great credit was due, were Major (afterward Brigadier General) Leigh Read, whose horse was
shot under him, Colonel John Warren, Colonel Parkhill (of Richmond, Va.), Colonel William J.
Mills, Major Cooper, Captain Martin Scott, and Captain William J. Bailey. The services of General
Call and Majors Gamble and Wellford were of great value. General Clinch makes mention of Major
J.S. Little his aid-de-camp, Captains Gustavus S. Drane, Charles Mellon, and Gates, Lieutenants
George Henry Talcott, Erastus A. Capron, John Graham, William Seaton Maitland, and Horace Brooks,
of the United States army, and Colonel McIntosh, Lieutenants Youman, Stewart, Nathaniel W.
Hunter, Cuthbert, and Adjutant Joseph A. Phillips, of the Florida volunteers, of the officers
of the medical staff. Special mention was made of Drs. Richard Weightman, Hamilton, Philip
G. Randolph, and Brandon. The returns of the killed and wounded were as follows:

REGULARS.
Killed, 2 artificers and 2 privates                               4
Wounded, 1 captain and 2 lieutenants                          3
Two sergeants and 4 corporals                                 6
Private soldiers                                             43
                                                             --
                                                             52
VOLUNTEERS. But in the
same sense I utterly deny his proposition, as being a great untruth
in divinity; for the sense of it can be no other than this: Whosoever do
                                                             not manage
                                                              their office and authority in Christ’s stead, or as deputies and
vicegerents of Christ, as he is Mediator, they manage it in the devil’s
stead, as the devil’s deputies and vicegerents.

Now I assume pagan magistrates do not manage their office as the deputies and vicegerents of Jesus Christ,
as he is Mediator, therefore as the devil’s deputies. Which way was the authority derived to them
from Christ as Mediator?

Mr Coleman, p. 19, saith in answer to this particular, formerly objected, that
Christ is rightful king of the whole earth, and all nations ought to receive Christ,
though as yet they do not. But this helpeth him not.

That which he had to show was, that the pagan magistrate, even while
continuing pagan and not Christian, doth manage his office as Christ’s
deputy and vicegerent; if not, then I conclude by his principles,
a pagan magistrate is the devil’s deputy and vicegerent, which is
contrary to Paul’s doctrine, who will have us to be subject for conscience’
sake, even to heathen magistrates, as the ministers of God for good,
Rom. xiii.

1-7. By the same argument Mr Coleman must grant that generals, admirals, majors,
sheriffs, constables, captains, masters, yea, every man that hath
an office, is either Christ’s vicegerent, or the devil’s vicegerent,
than which what can be more absurd?

I might, beside all these, show some other flaws in his divinity, as,
namely, p. 9 and 13, he doth not agree to this proposition, that
“the admitting of the scandalous and profane to the Lord’s table,
makes ministers to partake of their sins;” and he supposeth that ministers
may do their duty, though they admit the scandalous; but of this
elsewhere.

HIS ABUSING OF THE HONOURABLE HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT.

Most honourable senators, I humbly beseech you to look about you,
and take notice how far you are abused by Mr Coleman.

1. While he pretendeth to give you more than his brethren, he taketh a great deal more from you, and,
so far as in him lieth, even shaketh the foundation of your authority. The known tenure of magistracy
is from God. He is the minister of God (for good, and the powers that
are, are ordained of God, saith the Apostle).

The magistrate is God’s vicegerent; but now this brother seeketh a new tenure and derivation of magistracy, which
takes away the old. I find all government given to Christ, and to Christ as Mediator (I desire all
to consider it), Eph. i. 21-23; and Christ as head of those given to the church.” Here you have these
three in subordination, God, Christ, and the Christian magistrate.

God
gives once all government, even civil, to Christ, and to him as Mediator.

Well, but how comes it then to the magistrate? Not straight by a deputation
from God. Mr Coleman’s doctrine makes an interception of the power.

He holds that God hath put it in Christ’s hands as Mediator. How then? The
brother holdeth that Christ, as Mediator, hath instituted and placed
the Christian magistrate, yea, and no other government, in his church.

Page 19,
he saith, Granting it all to be true and sound, yet it infringeth not
what he said.

Yea, that fourth rule delivered by him in his sermon, did hold forth
these assertions: 1. That God gave all government, even civil, to Christ,
and to him as Mediator; 2.

That Christ, as Mediator, hath power and authority to place, and substitute
under and for him, the Christian magistrate; 3.

That Christ hath placed and instituted civil governments in his church,
to be under and for him, as he is Mediator; 4.

That the Christian magistrate doth, and all magistrates should, manage their office under and for Christ
(that is, as his vicegerents), he being, as Mediator, head of all
civil government.

Now instead of defending his doctrine from my just exceptions made against it, he resileth, and having brought
the magistrate in a snare, leaves him there.

He endeavours to vindicate no more but this, That magistracy is given to Christ
to be serviceable in his kingdom.

But if he had said so at first, I had said with him, and not against
him, in that point; and if he will yet hold at that, why doth he,
p. 19, refer my assertion to further discussion?

But how doth this agree with his sermon?

“Christ hath placed governments in his church. Of other governments
(said he) beside magistracy I find no institution, of them I do.” Is magistracy
church government?

Are magistrates church officers?

Are the civil punishments church censures? Is this the mystery? Yes, that it is. He will tell us anon that the Houses
of Parliament are church officers; but if that bolt do any hurt I
am much mistaken.

Fourthly, He professeth to subscribe to the votes of Parliament concerning
church government, p. 11; and yet he still pleadeth that all ecclesiastical
government is merely doctrinal, p. 11, the Parliament having voted
that power to church-officers which is not doctrinal (as I showed
before).

And he adviseth the Parliament to keep wholly in their own hands
the corrective part of church government, p. 14, though the Parliament
hath put into the hands of elderships a power of suspension from
the sacrament, which is corrective.

Fifthly, He did deliver, in that sermon before the honourable House of
Commons, divers particulars, which being justly excepted against, and
he undertaking a vindication, yet he hath receded from them, or not
been able to defend them, as that concerning two co-ordinate governments
in one kingdom; and his argument concerning the fear of an ambitious
ensnarement in ministers, these being by me infringed, he hath not
so much as offered to make them good.

Sixthly, Having acknowledged, under his own hand, that he was sorry he
had given offence to the reverend Assembly, and to the Commissioners
from Scotland, he now appealeth to the Parliament, and tells us they
are able to judge of a scandalous sermon, and they thought not so
of it, p. 3.

I know they are able to judge of a scandalous sermon: that they thought
not so of it, it is more than I know or believe. However I know they
have a tender respect to the offence of others, even when themselves
are not offended, and so they, and all men, ought to do according
to the rule of Christ.

For his part, after he had acknowledged he had given offence, it is
a disservice to the Parliament to lay over the thing upon them.

For my part, I think I do better service to the Parliament in interpreting otherwise that second
order of the House, not only desiring, but enjoining Mr Coleman to
print that sermon,—as near as he could,—as he preached it.

This was not, as he takes it, one portion of approbation above all its brethren (for I shall
not believe that so wise an auditory was not at all scandalised at
the hearing of that which was contrary both to the covenant and to their
own votes concerning church government, nor at that which he told them
out of the Jewish records, that “Hezekiah was the first man that
was ever sick in the world, and did recover”); but, as I humbly conceive
it was a real censure put upon him, his sermon being so much excepted
against and stumbled at, the honourable House of Commons did wisely
enjoin him to print his sermon, that it might abide trial in the light
of the world, and lie open to any just exceptions which could be made
against it abroad, and that he might stand or fall to himself.

Seventhly, He abuseth the Parliament by arrogating so much to himself,
as that his sermon “will, in the end, take away all difference, and
settle union,” p. 3; and that his Model will be, when he is dead,
“the model of England’s church government,” as he saith in his postscript.

Whether this be prophesying or presuming I hope we are free to judge.

And what if the wisdom and authority of the honourable Houses, upon
advice from the reverend and learned Assembly, choose another way than
this?

Must all the synodical debates, and all the grave parliamentary consultations,
resolve themselves into Mr Coleman’s way, like Jordan into Mare Mortuum.

Eighthly,

He doth extremely
wound the authority of Parliament in making their office to be a church
office, and of the same kind with the minister’s office. P. 14, “Do not
I hold ministers church officers?” And a little after, “I desire
the Parliament to consider another presbyterian principle that excludes
your honourable Assembly from being church officers.” If so, then
the offices of the magistrate and of the minister must stand and fall
together; that is, if the nation were not Christian the office of
magistracy should cease as well as that of the ministry.

And if he make the magistrate
a church officer, he must also give him ordination, except, with the Socinians,
he deny the necessity of ordination.

HIS ABUSING THE REVEREND ASSEMBLY OF DIVINES.

Whereas I had objected that his sermon had given no small scandal
and offence, he replieth, p. 3, “But hath it given offence?

To whom? I appeal to the honourable audience.” Is this candid or fair dealing, when he himself
knew both that he had given offence, and to whom?

I shall give him no other answer but his own declaration which he
gave under his hand after he had preached that sermon:—

“For much
of what is reported of my sermon I utterly deny; and refer myself
to the sermon itself.

For what I have acknowledged to be delivered by me, although it is my judgment,
yet, because I see it hath given a great deal of offence to this
Assembly and the reverend Commissioners of Scotland, I am sorry I
have given offence in the delivery thereof.

And for the printing, although I have an order, I will forbear, except
I be further commanded.—THO. P. 6, “Sure I dream (awake then); but
I will tell you news: The Presbyterians and Independents are (he
should have said may be) united; nay, more, the Lutherans and Calvinists;
nay, more yet, the Papist and Protestant; nay, more than so, the Turk
and Christian.” But wherein?

“In holding that there is a religion wherein men ought to walk.” No, Sir. They must be united upon
the like terms; that is, you must first have Turks to be Christians,
and Papists to be Protestants; and then you must have them as willing
to purge the church of scandals, and to keep the ordinances pure.

We will never despair of an union with such as are sound in the faith, holy
in life, and willing to a church-refining and sin-censuring government
in the hands of church officers.

In the meanwhile, it is no light imputation upon the Assembly to hint
this much, that the harmony and concord among the members thereof, for
such a government as I have now named (though in some other particulars
dissenting), can no more unite them than Turks and Christians, Papists
and Protestants, can be united.

And now I will tell you my news: The Presbyterians and Independents are
both equally interested against the Erastian principles.

He reflecteth also upon the Assembly in the point of jus divinum, p. 6.
But what his part hath been, in reference to the proceedings in the
Assembly, is more fully, and in divers particulars, expressed in the
Brief View of Mr Coleman’s New Model, unto which he hath offered no
answer.

HIS CALUMNIES.

Page 3, He desireth me, with wisdom and humility, to mind what church-refining and sin-censuring work this church government,
with all its activity, hath made in Scotland, in the point of promiscuous communicating.
I shall desire him, with wisdom and humility, to mind what charity
or conscience there is in such an aspersion. I dare say divers thousands
have been kept off from the sacrament in Scotland, as unworthy to
be admitted. Where I myself have exercised my ministry there have been some
hundreds kept off; partly for ignorance, and partly for scandal.

The order of the church of Scotland, and the acts of General Assemblies,
are for keeping off all scandalous persons; which every godly and
faithful minister doth conscientiously and effectually endeavour.

                      

And if, here or there, it be too much neglected by some Archippus,
who takes not heed to fulfil the ministry which he hath received
of the Lord, let him and his eldership bear the blame, and answer
for it.

  
  
  
  
  Page 4, I having professed my unwillingness to fall upon such a controversy
in a Fast sermon, he replieth, “How can you say you were unwilling?”
But how can you, in brotherly charity, doubt of it after I had seriously
professed it?

My doing it at two several Fasts (the only opportunities I then had
to give a testimony to that presently controverted truth) is no argument
of the contrary.

May not a man do a thing twenty times over, and yet do it unwillingly?

Page 5, He slandereth those that did, in their sermons, give a public
testimony against his doctrine; the occasion (as he gives out) not
being offered, but taken.

  But had they not a public calling and employment to preach as well
as himself?

  
  And if a Fast was not an occasion offered to them, how
  
  was a Fast an occasion offered to him to fall upon the same controversy
first, and when none had dons the like before him.

A fourth calumny is this: He had first blamed two parties that they came
biassed to the Assembly; I answered, How then shall he make himself
blameless who came biassed a third way; which was the Erastian way;
and that, for our part, we came no more biassed to this Assembly than
the foreign divines came to the Synod of Dort, Alexander to the Council
of Nice, Cyril to that of Ephesus, and Paul to the synod at Jerusalem.

But now, p. 6, 7, instead of doing us right he doth us greater injury;
for now he makes us biassed, not only by our own judgments, but by
something adventitious from without; which he denieth himself to
be (but how truly I take not on me to judge: beholders do often perceive
the biassing better than the bowlers); yea, he saith that I have acknowledged
the bias, and justify it.

Where, Sir? where? I deny it. It is no bias for a man to be settled, resolved and engaged in his judgment
for the truth, especially when willing to receive more light, and to learn what needeth to be
further reformed.

Hath he forgotten his own definition of the bias which he had but just
now given? But he will needs make it more than probable, by the instances
which I brought, that the Commissioners from Scotland came not to
this Assembly as divines, by dispute and disquisition, to find out
truth, but as judges, to censure all different opinions as errors;
for so came foreign divines to Dort, Alexander to the Council of Nice,
Cyril to Ephesus.

Is it not enough that he slander us, though he do not, for our sakes,
slander those worthy divines that came to the Synod of Dort, Alexander
also, and Cyril, prime witnesses for the truth in their days?

Could no less content him than to approve the objections of the Arminians against the Synod of Dort,
which I had mentioned, p. 33? But he gets not away so. Finally, Whereas
he doubts, though not of our willingness to learn more, yet of our
permission to receive more: That very paper, first given in by us
(which I had cited, and unto which he makes this reply), did speak
not only of our learning, but of the church of Scotland’s receiving,
and, which is more, there is an actual experiment of it, the last
General Assembly having ordered the laying aside of some particular
customs in that church, and that for the nearer uniformity with this
church of England, as was expressed in their own letter to the reverend
Assembly of Divines.

A fifth calumny there is, p. 9, 6.

“The Commissioner is content that jus divinum should be a noli me tangere
to the Parliament, yet blames what himself grants.” I was never content it should
be a noli me tangere to the Parliament, but at most a non necesse est
tangere, for so I explained myself, p. 32, 33.
 The boats having
arrived at Fort Brooke with the sick and disabled and all superfluous baggage, the army moved
in the direction of a deserted Indian village, passing the ruins of many fine plantations,
and struck the military road near the Hillsboro River.

On the 17th they arrived at the river and halted. On the 18th, after burning two deserted Indian
villages near the Big Ouithlacoochee River, the friendly Indians accompanying the expedition
requested permission to return to Fort Brooke. General Gaines assured them that there was no
danger to be apprehended; that he only required them to act as scouts and guides, and that
they were not expected to go into battle.

The Ouithlacoochee was forded on the 19th, and that night a breastwork was thrown up on the
ground which had been occupied by the ill-fated party of Major Dade. At daybreak of the 20th
they resumed their march, and buried on their way the remains of Major Dade and Captain Frazier
and eight other officers, and ninety-eight noncommissioned officers and privates. 

This latter has been twice translated into German, Leipz.

1839, and Berlin 1846.]

[Footnote 92: Starozytney wiessci z XI go
XVI go i XVII go wieko.

The author had published a similar work before. Polish proverbs have
also been collected by Knapski and Rysinski.]

[Footnote 93: Zarysy
domowe, Warsaw 1841; and Niewasty Polskie, Wars.

1844.]

[Footnote 94: Klechdy, Starozytnye powviesci i podania ludu Polskigo
i Rusi, Warsaw 1837.]

[Footnote 95: Piesni ludu bielachrobatow,
Mazurow i Rusiz nad Buga, Lemb 1838.]

[Footnote 96: Duma, Dumka,
means thought, and is the name of the elegaic, mostly historical,
ballads of the Malo-Russian people.]

[Footnote 97: See more on this
subject in Part IV.]

[Footnote 98: The title is Spiewy historyczne
Cesarstwa Rossyiskiego, i.e. Historical songs of the Russian emperors.]

[Footnote
99: The English reader will find further information on Polish literature
in Bowring's Introduction to his Polish Anthology, Lond.

1827; in Ljach Szyrma's Letters on Poland, published
in London; and in an article on Polish Literature in the Foreign
Quarterly Review, Vol.

XXV. No. 49. These are the only sources in
the English language with which we are acquainted.

In grammatical and lexical works the Polish language
is very rich; but the interest which the English have recently shown
for the fate of the Poles seems not to extend to their language.

The following are the principal works.

GRAMMARS: in German,
Krumholz Polnische Grammatik, Breslau 1797, 6th edit. Auszug aus
Kopczynski's Grammatik, von Polsfuss, Breslau 1794, Mrongovius Poln.

Sprachlehre, Königsb 1794, and in several altered editions, under different
titles; last edition Danzig 1836. Szumski's Poln. Gramm. Posen 1830.
Vater's Grammatik der Poln.

Sprache, Halle 1807. Bantkie Poln. Grammatik attached to his Dictionary,
Breslau 1808-1824.

Szrzeniawa
Wortforschungslehre der polnischen Sprache, Lemberg and Lemgo 1842-43. Poplinski Polnische Grammatik,
Lissa 1836; last edition 1840. Stostakowskiego Polska Gramm. Trzemeszne
1846.

Schieweck Grammatik der.

Polnischen Sprache, Fraustadt and Neustadt 1847. In French, Kopczynski
Essai d'une grammaire Polonaise, Wars.

1807. Trambczynski Grammatique raisonnée de la langue Polonaise, new edit.
Warsaw 1793.

DICTIONARIES, in German and French. The most useful are, Mrongovius
Handwörterbuch der Poln.

Sprachte, latest edit. Danz. 1823. Troc Franz-poln.-deutsches Wörterbuch
in several editions from 1742 to 1821. J.V. Bantkie Taschenwörterbuch
der Poln.

Sprache, (German and French,) Breslau and Wars. in several editions from 1805 to 1819. Slownik Francusko-Polski,
Dictionaire Polonais Français, Berlin and Leipzig 1839-45. Dict. Polonais-Francais, 2 vols. 18mo. Paris
1844. J.A.E. Schmidt, Nouveau Dictionaire portatif Francais et Polonais,
Zerbst 1817.

Polnisch-Deutsches Taschenwörterbuch, von Jordan, Leipzig 1845.--Standard works for
the language are the etymological dictionaries: G.S. Bantkie Slownik dokladny iez.
pol. i. niem. Breslau 1806, and Linde's Slownik iez. pol. Wars. 1807-14.
For other philological works, see Schaflarik's Geschichte der Slav.

The
north-eastern part of Germany, as far west as the Elbe and Saale,
was, from the fifth to the tenth century, almost exclusively inhabited
by nations of the Slavic race.

Various Teutonic tribes--among them the Burgundians, the Suevi, Heruli, and Hermunduri--had before this taken
up their temporary residence along the Baltic, between the Vistula
and the Elbe.

In the great migration of the Asiatic-European nations, which for nearly two centuries kept in motion all Europe from
the Icy Ocean to the Atlantic, and extended even to the north of Africa, the warlike German nations
moved towards the south-west, and Slavic tribes traversing the Danube
and Vistula, in immense multitudes, took possession of the countries
which they left.

Those who came over the northern Vistula, settled along the coasts of the Baltic as far west
as to the Elbe and Saale, and as far south as to the Erzgebirge (Ore
Mountains) on the borders of Bohemia.

These Slavic tribes were called by the Germans, Wenden, Lat.

Venedi, for which we prefer in English the form of Vendes, rather than that
of Wends. It appears indeed that this name was formerly applied by the
Germans indiscriminately to all the Slavic nations with which they
came in contact; for the name Winden, Eng.

Vindes, which is still, as we have seen, the German appellation for
the Slovenzi, or the Slavic inhabitants of Southern Germany, is evidently
the same in a slightly altered form. The name of Wenden, Vendes, became,
however, in the course of time, a specific appellation for the northern German-Slavic
tribes; of which, at the present day, only a few meagre remnants
are left.

They were nevertheless once a powerful nation. Five independent branches must be distinguished
among them.

We first name the Obotrites, the former inhabitants of the present
duchies of Mecklenburg, and the adjacent country, west, north, and
south.

They were divided into the Obotrites proper, the Wagrians in Holstein, and the Polabæ and Linones on the banks
of the Elbe and Leine; but were united under a common chief or king.
They and their eastern neighbours the Wiltzi, (Germ. Wilzen, Lat. Veletabæ,)
with whom they lived in perpetual warfare, were the most warlike
and powerful among the Vendish tribes.

The Wiltzi or Pomeranians lived interspersed with the Kassubes, a Lekhish tribe, between the Oder and the Vistula,
and were subjugated by the Obotrites in A.D. 782. It was however only by the utmost exertions, that
these latter could maintain their own independence against their western and southern neighbours, the
Germans.

Conquered by Charlemagne, they regained their independence under his successors,
and centuries passed away in constant and bloody conflicts and alternate
fortunes.

In the middle of the twelfth century, however, they were completely subjugated
by Henry the Lion, duke of Saxony and Bavaria.

He laid waste their whole country, destroyed most of the people, and compelled the few remaining inhabitants and
their prince, to accept Christianity from his bloody hands.

In A.D. 1167 he restored to this latter, whose name was Pribislaus, a part of his kingdom, and gave his daughter
Matilda in marriage to the son of Pribislaus, who, a few years later, was made a prince of the empire,
and was thus gained over to the German cause. His descendants are the present dukes of Mecklenburg; and
it is a memorable fact, that these princes are at the present day
the only sovereigns in Europe of the Slavic race.

German priests and German colonists introduced the German language; although
we find that Bruno, the chief missionary among the Obotrites, preached before them in their
own language. The Slavic dialect spoken by them expired gradually; and
probably without ever having been reduced to writing, except for the sake
of curiosity when very near its extinction. The only documents of
it, which have come down to us, are a few incomplete vocabularies, compiled
among the Polabæ and Linones, i.e. the inhabitants adjacent to the
Elbe, in Slavic Labe, and to the Leine, in Slavic Linac.

Long after the whole region was perfectly Germanized, a few towns in the eastern corner of the present
kingdom of Hanover, were still almost exclusively inhabited by a people of Slavic race, who in
the seventeenth century, and even to the middle of the eighteenth, had preserved in some measure their
language and habits. But, since the Germans were strongly prejudiced against the Vendish name,--the
nations of this race, especially those in the western part of the
German territories, being despised as subjugated tribes, and inferior
in general knowledge and information,--they gradually renounced their
national peculiarities.

Towards the close of the seventeenth century, when Hennings, German pastor at Wustrow, took great pains to
collect among them historical notices and a vocabulary of their language,
he found the youth already ignorant of the latter, and the old people
almost ashamed of knowing it, or at least afraid of being laughed
at by their children.

They took his inquiries, and those of other intelligent persons, in respect to their ancient language
and usages, as intended to ridicule them, and denied at first any knowledge of those matters.
We find, however, that preaching in the Vendish language of this region was still continued for
some time later. Divine service was held in it for the last time
at Wustrow, in the year 1751.

According to the vocabularies which Hennings and a few others collected,
their dialect, like that spoken in Lower Lusatia, was nearly related
to the Polish language; partaking however in some peculiarities of the Bohemian,
and not without some of its own.[1]

The second
great Vendish tribe, the Wiltzi or Pomeranians (Germ. Wilzen), also called Veletabæ, were, as we said above,
subjugated in A.D. 782 by the Obotrites; and the country between the Oder and the Vistula formed for more than
a hundred and fifty years a part of the great Vendish kingdom. They
regained, however, even before the final dissolution of this latter
in A.D. 1026, the partial independence of their own dukes; who attached
themselves to Germany, and afterwards, under the name of the dukes
of Pomerania, became princes of the empire.

In the year 1124 the first Pomeranians were baptized by Otho, bishop of Bamberg; and the place where
this act was performed, Ottosbrunnen (Otho's Well), which five hundred years ago was encircled by four lime-trees,
is still shown to the traveller. As they received religion and instruction
from Germany, the influence of the German language can easily be
accounted for.

German colonists aided in spreading it throughout the whole country. The last
person who understood the old Pomeranian language, is said to have died
in the year 1404.

No trace of it remains, excepting only the names of places and persons, the Slavic origin of
which can be recognized throughout all north-eastern Germany by the
terminations in its, enz, ik, or ow.

In A.D. 1637
the line of the old Pomeranian dukes expired, and the country fell to
Brandenburg, with the exception of that part which Sweden usurped
at the peace of Westphalia. The island of Rügen, which till A.D. 1478
had its own native princes, belonged to this latter.

It is the principal seat
of German-Slavic antiquities.

The ancient Rugians and their gods are mentioned by Tacitus, and described
by Saxo Grammaticus. The old chronicles and legends, founded on still
older traditions, speak of a large and flourishing city named Vineta
on the small island Wollin, south-east of Rügen, once the principal
seat of the western Slavic commerce, and, as Herder calls it, the
Slavic Amsterdam.

This city is said by some to have been destroyed by the Danes; by others to have been ingulfed in
the sea by the sinking of the ground beneath it. Modern inquirers, however, have doubted whether it
ever existed; and, hard as it is to renounce the many poetical associations
attached to such a subject,--so similar to those which fill the mind
in thinking of Pompeii and Herculaneum,--their objections have not
yet been satisfactorily refuted.

The third separate branch of the Vendish stem were the Ukrians, or
Border-Vendes, Germ. Ukern, from Ukraina, border.

They lived in the territory which afterwards became the margravate of Brandenburg, and were divided into several tribes,
as the Hevelli on the banks of the Havel, the Retarians, etc. Their situation was such, that constant conflicts
between them and the guardians or watch of the German frontiers, the Saxon margraves on the other side
of the Elbe, were unavoidable. These served gradually to extend the German marches or frontiers further and further,
until in the year 1134 Albert the Bear, count of Ascania, finally
conquered the Vendes.

The Slavic inhabitants of this region were cruelly and completely
destroyed; the country was repeopled by German and Dutch colonists, and given
as a fief by the emperor to Albert the Bear, the first margrave of
Brandenburg.

Brandenburg was the German form for Brannibor, the most considerable of the Vendish cities, after
which the country was called. The names of places, many of them altered in
a similar manner, are indeed the only weak traces of the Vendish language once
spoken in this part of Germany. No tribe of the Vendes seems to have
been so completely extinguished; the present inhabitants of Brandenburg
being of as pure a German origin, as those of any other part of Germany.

The
descendants of only two Vendish tribes have preserved their language;
and even these, from powerful nations spread over the surface of at
least 4800 geographical square miles, have shrunk into the comparatively
small number of scarcely two hundred thousand individuals, now inhabitants
of Upper and Lower Lusatia.

Nearly all of them are peasants; for the higher classes, even if Slavic blood
perhaps runs in their veins, are completely Germanized.

These
tribes are the Sorabians, Lat. Sorabæ, Germ. Sorben, in Lusatia, divided
into two different branches. They call themselves to this very day
Servians, or rather (as also their brethren on the Danube) Serbs;
their language, the Serbish language. Although in fact two distinct tribes,
and speaking different dialects, yet their early history cannot well
be separated.

After the dissolution of the great kingdom of Thuringia by the Francs
and Saxons in the year 1528, the Sorabians, or Sorbæ, took possession
of the countries left by the Hermunduri, viz. the territory between
the Harz mountains, the Saale, and the Erzgebirge, and extended their
dominion in a northern direction to the seats of their brethren, the
Ukrians, and towards the east as far as to the region in which their
near relations, the Lekhes. about the same time had settled.

They made
slaves of the few German inhabitants whom they found scattered through this
country; and according to their industrious habits, began immediately
after their arrival to cultivate the soil, to build cities, and to
trade in the productions of the country. Although not strictly a
warlike people, they were able for several centuries to defend their
frontiers against the frequent attacks of their German neighbours
on the other side of the Saale, and to give them trouble in return.

But they yielded before the arms of Charlemagne; and after a short interval
of renewed independence, they were completely subjugated and made tributary
by Henry I. Their country, according to the German custom, was divided
into marches, and populated with German settlers.

These latter more especially occupied the towns, and built villages
among the woods and mountains; whilst the Vendes, chiefly addicted
to agriculture, continued to occupy the plains. But even on the plains, there
soon arose the castles of German knights, their masters and oppressors;
and the Vendish population was by degrees reduced to the miserable
condition of serfs.

In the year 968, the first attempt was made to convert them to Christianity,
partly by the sword of the conqueror, partly by the instruction of
Christian missionaries.

But more than one century passed away, before the Christian religion was fully introduced among them. Benno,
bishop of Meissen, who died in A.D. 1106, at the age of ninety-six,
acquired by his activity in the work of converting the Vendes, the
name of the apostle of the Slavi.

The obstinate resistance with which the Christian religion had been
rejected by them, can easily be explained by the unjudicious, nay
flagitious way, in which it was presented to them by the Germans;
who came among them, the sword in one hand and the cross in the other;
and exacted moreover from them the sacrifice of their language, their
customs, their whole nationality in exchange.

The naturally childlike and submissive disposition of the Slavi rendered
them in all other regions, as we have seen, willing to receive the
Christian doctrines, more especially when their superiors themselves acted
as their apostles, as was in some measure the case with the Russian Vladimir,
Jagello in Lithuania, etc.[2] But the mode described above, which
was adopted by the German heroes, not only among the Vendes, but also
some centuries later among the old Borussians, could not but rouse
all their feelings of pride and nationality to a decided resistance.

Even when the Germans refrained from force, their means of conversion were equally opposed to
the spirit of Christianity. Bishop Otho of Bamberg, for instance, was accustomed, when on his missionary
travels, to have fifty or more wagons in his train loaded with cloth,
victuals, and other supplies, in order to reward on the spot those
who submitted to baptism.[3]

But the holy light of Christianity,
even after the Vendish tribes had embraced its doctrines, did not
clear up the darkness of their fate.

The whole humiliating relation between masters and serfs in Germany, which still degraded the last
century, was unknown to the free ancient Germans, among whom only
the prisoner of war was a slave; and is derived from the period of
the submission of the Vendes.

The Germans indeed seem to have considered them as an inferior race, and
treated them accordingly.

The contempt with which the old historians speak of them, is revolting to every liberal and unprejudiced
mind, and can hardly be explained. For the Sorabians seem to have been at the time of their submission,
superior on the whole to the Germans in respect to civilization; although in consequence of this contemptuous
treatment, they in the course of time fell far behind them. Despised
and oppressed, they were kept for centuries in a state of ignorance and neglect;
from which, it seems, they could only escape by renouncing their Slavic peculiarities,
and above all their language. The use of this latter before courts of
justice was in the fourteenth century forbidden by law throughout most of the country.
In the beginning of the same century, the Vendish language was still
sometimes heard at Leipzig, but not afterwards.

In the villages also it became wholly extinct fifty or a hundred years later;
and only single words passed over into the German language. But this was
not the case with their usages and other national peculiarities; there
are still several tribes, nay the peasants of whole provinces in
this part of Germany, in whom the Slavic origin can be distinctly
traced.[4] Their language however was driven into the remotest eastern
corner of their former extensive territory; and is there, and only
there, still to be heard.

We speak of the province called Lusatia, situated between Saxony, Bohemia, Silesia, and Brandenburg,
of which the greatest part is at present under the Prussian dominion, and the
smallest but richest portion under that of Saxony.

Lushitze, Lusatia, Germ. Lausitz, signifies in Slavic, a low marshland. This name
was formerly applied only to the north-eastern part of this province, or
Lower Lusatia, which is, or was at least at the time of the Vendish
settlement, a country of that description.

At a later period, the name was carried over very improperly to the south-western
part, or Upper Lusatia, a beautiful and mountainous region. Lusatia was
given by Henry I, as a fief, to the margrave of Meissen.

In the course of the following centuries, its two parts were repeatedly separated
and reunited, alternately under the dominion of the last named margrave,
of Poland, or of Bohemia, without however belonging to the German
empire.

In the fourteenth century it was at length incorporated with Bohemia, and
remained so for nearly three hundred years. To this circumstance alone
the partial preservation of the Vendish language is to be ascribed.
At the peace of Prague, A.D. 1636, it was allotted to Saxony.

At the congress of Vienna in 1815, it was assigned, with the exception
of the smaller half of Upper Lusatia, to Prussia, to which monarchy
it still belongs.

1. Language of the Sorabians in Upper Lusatia.

The cities of Bautzen, Zittau, Kamenz, Löbau, and their districts, form the
Saxon part of Upper Lusatia. Of its 195,000 inhabitants, about the
fourth or fifth part still speak the Vendish language. In the north-eastern
part of Upper Lusatia, which belongs to Prussia, there is about the
same proportion of Vendish inhabitants. In both territories the whole
number of Vendes is about 100,000. Their language is very nearly
related to the Bohemian; where the Sorabians of Lower Lusatia and the
Poles pronounce the letter h, the Upper Lusatians and Bohemians give the
sound of g. Both Lusatian dialects have of course lost very many
of their original peculiarities; thus both have adopted the article
from the German language.

The Reformation exhibited here, as every where, its favourable influence
on the vernacular language. The bishops of Meissen, to whose diocese
Lusatia belonged, had indeed repeatedly admonished the priests and curates,
to whose care the spiritual welfare of the poor Slavic Lusatians
was intrusted, to learn the language of the people; but no particular
pains was taken; and the Romish clergy, who spoke of the natives with
the utmost contempt, were quite satisfied to hear the people say Amen
and Kyrie Eleison after their own Latin prayers.

As Lusatia lies near to the scene of Luther's earliest
influence, the Gospel was preached early to the Slavic inhabitants by some
of his followers; and it had the natural consequence, that the Romish
clergy also began to give some attention to the vernacular language.

In 1550, if not before, a Sorabian translation of the New Testament, the manuscript
and perhaps the autograph of which is preserved in the library of Berlin,
was completed; but it was never printed; probably because during the
melancholy period of the "Interim" so called, which commenced about
that time, the energies of the Protestants were in some measure paralyzed.

Towards the end of the century Luther's smaller Catechism, and several
other religious and doctrinal tracts, were translated from the German,
mostly by clergymen, and introduced into the schools; chiefly the
village schools; for the cities were steadily becoming more and more
Germanized.

The neglect and decline of the Sorabian population was however always painfully felt by some patriotic individuals;
and the very injudicious and tyrannic attempts of their German rulers, during the seventeenth century,
to eradicate the language and supplant it by the German, found in
all places only a reluctant and forced submission.

But the effect of appointing every where German magistrates and German
pastors was irresistible. The language was gradually forgotten by the
rising generation; and hardly a Vendish book was printed during the first
three quarters of the seventeenth century. Indeed hardly any one knew
how to write in a language, the orthography and grammar of which
had not yet been subjected to any rules or principles.

In 1679 the Jesuit Jacob Ticinus, a native of Lusatia, in a little Latin pamphlet,
advised his countrymen to adopt the rules of orthography current
in the Bohemian language, so nearly related to their own.[5] But the Protestants
among them, who constituted the principal part in number and respectability,
rejected his advice; and preferred to adopt the rules established shortly
afterwards by a German clergyman, Z.J. Bierling.[6] This was a system
between the Bohemian and the German, and is still observed. It was
probably a sense of the approaching danger of an ultimate total extirpation
of their language, that roused the slumbering Vendes again to some
efforts.

Parts of the Gospels were published towards the close of the same
century by Michael Frenzel; and in 1706 the whole New Testament appeared
in a Vendish translation, conformed to Luther's German one.

A translation of the whole Bible, made by several Protestant clergymen,
was first published in 1729; and has been twice reprinted.

A version
for Catholics, by A. Swotlik, is extant in manuscript. A German hymn-book for the latter already existed
in 1696; and in 1710 the Protestants were likewise supplied with one. In the former the orthography of Ticinus
was followed; while the latter was printed according to the system
of Bierling.

Thus this handful of people, surrounded by German adversaries and underminers
of their nationality, and who would have had hard work enough even
if they had stood as one man in their own defence, were split into
parties, even in things the most indifferent; and thus made their
own weakness still weaker.



The Louisiana troops left Fort Brooke on April 10th and arrived at Pease's Creek on the 17th.
They moved forward at once, but the weather was oppressive and the men were broken down by
previous marches; many of them being destitute of shoes and other clothing, it was found necessary
to return to camp. Out of over seven hundred Louisiana troops who had volunteered in January
and entered the field the beginning of the next month, but one hundred and thirty were now
left fit for duty. With these, however, and a small detachment of marines from the United States
vessels in that vicinity, Colonel Smith determined to proceed. He embarked with one half of
his command in canoes, the others proceeding by land. Meeting no Indians, he returned to Fort
Brooke on April 27th, when the Louisiana troops were ordered to New Orleans to be mustered
out of service. Colonel Smith proceeded to St. Mark's and reported to General Scott.

The right wing having remained at Tampa Bay from April 5th to the 13th, General Scott issued
orders to General Clinch to move toward Fort Drane, and, after relieving Major Cooper, to co-operate
with Colonel Lindsay, who had left Fort Brooke about the same time, for the purpose of penetrating
the cove in a different direction from that pursued by the right wing on its march to Tampa,
and to penetrate the forks of the Ouithlacoochee.

While Colonel Lindsay was engaged in constructing a defensive work on the military road near
Big Ouithlacoochee, General Clinch encamped near Fort Cooper and dispatched some cavalry under
Captain Malone to relieve the garrison, with instructions that should he meet the enemy, he
was to advise General Clinch at once. When about three miles distant from the main body the
Indians opened fire and at once retreated. The hammock was penetrated and searched, but no
Indians were found.

Major Cooper was attacked by a large body of Indians and besieged for thirteen days. His loss
was one man killed and twenty wounded. The Indians not having been found in any large numbers,
the two wings separated, the center returning to Fort Brooke and the right to Fort King, where
they arrived April 25th.

After the arrival of Colonel Goodwyn's mounted regiment, the left wing, accompanied by General
Scott, took up line of march on the 18th for Volusia. A small party of Indians was encountered,
but they fled and secreted themselves in a hammock. General Eustis's command arrived at Volusia
on the evening of the 25th, and on the 28th all the volunteers from South Carolina marched
to St. Augustine and were mustered out. On the arrival of Colonel Lindsay at Fort Brooke he
was directed by General Scott to relieve the garrison at Fort Alabama, and disband the Alabama
volunteers, leaving only regulars there.

They were attacked by the Indians with a loss of four killed and nineteen wounded. General
Scott, accompanied by Colonel Gadsden, Captain Augustus Canfield, and Lieutenant Johnson, with
a detachment of seventeen men, embarked in a steamboat at Volusia for the purpose of penetrating
by the St. John's River the south part of the peninsula and selecting a site nearer to the
seat of war as a depot for supplies. They proceeded to the head of Lake Monroe, but the boat
was unable to pass the bar and they were compelled to return.

In his report of April 30th General Scott says: "To end this war, I am now persuaded that not
less than three thousand troops are indispensable--two thousand four hundred infantry and six
hundred horse, the country to be occupied and scoured requiring that number." He further recommended
that two or three steamers with a light draught of water, and fifty or sixty barges capable
of carrying from ten to fifteen men each, be employed, but did not ask for the control of the
operations he recommended, saying it was an honor he would neither solicit nor decline. 

Massachusetts has achieved much in this respect; but when she shall have made high schools as free
and universal as common schools, and the attendance on both compulsory, so as to qualify every voter
for governing a State or nation, she will have made a still grander
step in material and intellectual progress, and the results would
be still more astounding.

By Table 35 of the Census, p. 195, the whole value of all the property,
real and personal, of Massachusetts, in 1860, was $815,237,433, and
that of Maryland, $376,919,944.

We have seen that the value of the products that year in Massachusetts was $287,000,000
(exclusive of commerce), and of Maryland, $66,000,000. As a question, then,
of profit on capital, that of Massachusetts was 35 per cent., and
of Maryland 17 per cent. Such is the progressive advance (more than
two to one) of free as compared with slave labor.

The same law obtains in comparing all the Free with all the Slave States.
But the proof is still more complete.

Thus, Delaware and Missouri (alone of all the Slave States) were ahead of Maryland in this rate of profit,
because both had comparatively fewer slaves; and all the other Slave States, whose servile population
was relatively larger than that of Maryland, were below her in the
rate of profit.

The law extends to counties, those having comparatively fewest slaves
increasing far more rapidly in wealth and population.

This,
then, is the formula as to the rate of profit on capital. First, the Free States;
next, the States and counties of the same State having the fewest relative
number of slaves. The Census, then, is an evangel against slavery,
and its tables are revelations proclaiming laws as divine as those written
by the finger of God at Mount Sinai on the tables of stone.

For seventy years we have had these Census Tables, announcing these
great truths more and more clearly at each decade.

They are the records of the nation's movement and condition, the
decennial monuments marking her steps in the path of empire, the oracles
of her destiny.

They are prophecies, for each decade fulfils the predictions of its
predecessor. They announce laws, not made by man, but the irrevocable ordinances
of the Almighty. We cannot, with impunity, refuse to obey these laws.

For every violation, they enforce their own penalties. From these there is no escape in the present or the
past, nor for the future, except in conformity to their demands. These laws condemn slavery; and the
punishment for disobedience is recorded in the result of every Census,
and finally culminated in the rebellion.

Slavery and freedom are antagonistic and discordant elements: the conflict between
them is upon us; it admits of no neutrality or compromise, and one or the
other system must perish.

We
have seen that slavery is hostile to the progress of wealth and population:
let us now ascertain its influence on moral and intellectual development.

By
Table 15 of the Census of 1860, the result for that year was as follows:
In Massachusetts, value of books printed, $397,500; jobs, $529,347;
newspapers, $1,979,069; total, $2,905,916.

Same year
in Maryland, books printed, $58,000; jobs, $122,000; newspapers,
$169,000; total, $350,155.

By Table 37, Census of 1860, Massachusetts had 222 newspapers and
periodicals, of which 112 were political, 31 religious, 51 literary,
miscellaneous 28.

Maryland had only 57, all political. The whole number of copies issued in Massachusetts in 1860 was
102,000,760, and in Maryland, 20,721,472.

Of periodicals, Massachusetts has monthly, 1 political, 10 religious, 18 literary, 7 miscellaneous; quarterly,
religious 3, literary 2, miscellaneous 1, and 1 annual.

Maryland had none.

Not a religious, literary, scientific, or miscellaneous periodical
or journal in the State!

What terrible truths are unfolded in these statistics!

None but a political party press in Maryland, all devoted, in 1860,
to the maintenance, extension, and perpetuity of slavery, which had
57 advocates, and not one for science, religion, or literature.

We have seen that the circulation in 1860 of the press in Massachusetts exceeded that of Maryland by more
than eighty-one millions of copies.

These facts all prove that slavery is hostile to knowledge and its
diffusion, to science, literature, and religion, to the press, and
to free government.

For schools, colleges, libraries, and churches, I must take the Tables of the
Census of 1850, those of 1860 not being yet published.

There were in 1850 in Massachusetts, 3,679 public schools, 4,443 teachers, 176,475 pupils; native adults
who cannot read or write, 1,861.

In Maryland, 907 public schools, 1,005 teachers, 33,254 pupils; native
adults who cannot read or write, 38,426, excluding slaves, to teach
whom is criminal.

Thus, then, slavery is hostile to schools, withholding instruction from the
children of the poor.

The number of public libraries in Massachusetts was 1,462, volumes
684,015.

In Maryland, 124, and 125,042 volumes. Value of churches in Massachusetts, $10,206,000. In Maryland, $3,947,884,
of which $2,541,240 is in Baltimore (which has very few slaves),
and the remainder is mainly in the seven counties (from which slavery
has nearly disappeared) adjoining Pennsylvania.

As to schools, colleges, books, libraries, churches, newspapers, and
periodicals, it thus appears that Massachusetts is greatly in advance
of Maryland.

  

Now, then, let
  us contrast loyal Maryland with rebel South Carolina, the author of secession,
  and assuming for many years to instruct the nation. By the Census of 1860, she
  had a population of 703,708, of whom 402,406 were slaves; and Maryland, numbering
  687,049, had 87,189 slaves. Now,
  
  by the Census of 1860, South Carolina had 45 journals
  
  and periodicals, and her annual circulation was
  
  3,654,840 copies. The circulation therefore of Massachusetts exceeded that of South
  Carolina more than ninety-eight millions of copies, while Maryland exceeded South
Carolina more than seventeen millions of copies. So much for South Carolina
as a great political teacher.

  

As to schools in 1850: South Carolina had 724 public schools, 739 teachers,
17,838 pupils. Massachusetts, then, had 158,637 more pupils at public
schools than South Carolina, and Maryland 15,416 more pupils at public
schools than South Carolina.

  
The press of Massachusetts, we have seen, circulated in 1860 upward
of one hundred and two millions of copies, equal to 279,454 per day,
including journals and periodicals, each read, on an average, by at
least two persons.

                                                This is independent of books and pamphlets, and of the very large circulation of papers
from other States and from Europe.

What a flood of light is thus shed daily and hourly upon the people of Massachusetts!
This intellectual effulgence radiates by day and night.

It is the sun in its meridian splendor, and the stars in an ever-unclouded firmament.
It has a centre and a circumference, but no darkness. Ignorance vanishes
before it; wealth follows in its train; labor rejoices in its association,
and finds its products more than doubled; freedom hails its presence,
and religion gives it a cordial welcome; churches, schools, academies,
colleges, and universities acknowledge its mighty influence.

Science penetrates the secrets of nature, and unfolds each new discovery
for the benefit of man.

Coal, the offspring of the sun, develops its latent energy, and water
contributes its untiring hydraulic power.

Machinery takes more and more the place of nerves and muscles, cheapens
clothing and subsistence and all the necessaries of life, and opens new
fields of industry, and more profitable employment for labor.

Steam and lightning become the slaves of man. He performs the journey of a day in an hour, and converses in minutes
around the globe. The strength of man may not have been much increased,
but his power is augmented a thousand fold.

His life may not have been materially lengthened, but, in the march
of knowledge, a year now is as a century, compared with man's progress
in the darkness of the middle ages.

The eternal advance toward omniscience goes on, but is like that of the infinite approach of the asymptote,
which never reaches the hyperbolic curve.

The onward of science is in a geometrical ratio, so that in time, the intellectual progress of a day in
the future, must exceed that of a century in the past.

Knowledge is enthroned as king, and grand truths and new ideas are his ministers. Science takes the
diameter of the earth's orbit as a base line and unit of measurement,
and with it spans immensity, and triangulates the nebulous systems
amid the shadowy verges of receding space.

Its researches are cosmical upon the earth and the heavens, and all the elements
minister to its progress.

Sink to the lowest mine, or fathom the ocean's depth, or climb the loftiest
mountains, or career through the heavens on silken wings, and it is there also.
On--on--on; nearer--nearer--still nearer it moves forever and forever,
with accelerated speed, toward the infinite eternal.

Such are the triumphs of knowledge; and he who diffuses it among our
race, or discovers and disseminates new truths, advances man nearer
to his Creator; he exalts the whole race; he elevates it in the scale
of being, and raises it into higher and still higher spheres.

It is science that marks the speed of sound and light and lightning, calculates
the eclipses, catalogues the stars, maps the heavens, and follows,
for centuries of the past and the future, the comet's course.

It explores the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. With geology,
it notes the earthquake upheaval of mountains, and, with mineralogy,
the laws of crystallization.

                      

With chemistry, it analyzes, decomposes, and compounds the elements. If, like
Canute, it cannot arrest the tidal wave, it is subjecting it to laws
and formulas.

                                     

Taking the sunbeam for its pencil, it heliographs man's own image, and the
scenery of the earth and the heavens. Has science any limits or horizon?

Can
it ever penetrate the soul of man, and reveal the mystery of his
existence and destiny?

  
  
  It is certainly exploring the facts of sociology, arranging and generalizing them,
  and deducing laws.

Man,
  
  elevated by knowledge in the scale of being, controls the forces of nature
  with greater power and grander results, and accumulates wealth more rapidly. The educated
  free labor of Massachusetts, we have seen, doubles the products of
  toil, per capita, as compared with Maryland, and quadruples them (as the Census
  shows) compared with South Carolina. One day's labor of a man in Massachusetts
  is more than equal to two in Maryland,
  
  and four in South Carolina. So, if we take our
  
  savage tribes, with their huts and tents, their rude agriculture,
  
  their furs, their few and simple household manufactures, their hunting and
fishing, the average product of their annual labor, at four cents a day
each, would be $14.60 a year, or more than a fourth of that of South Carolina
(56.91).

So that Massachusetts, in material progress, is farther in advance
of South Carolina than that State is of the savage Indians.

  
  
  Thus we have the successive steps and gradations of man: Massachusetts,
  with
  
  free labor and free schools, having reached the highest point of civilization:
  South Carolina, with slavery and ignorance (except the few), in a semi-barbarous
  stage; and the lowest savage condition,
  
  called barbarous, but nearer to South Carolina than that State to
  Massachusetts.

Slavery,
  
then, the Census proves, is hostile to the progress of wealth and population,
to science, literature, and education, to schools, colleges, and universities,
to books and libraries, to churches and religion, to the press, and
therefore to free government; hostile to the poor, keeping them in
want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing it to servitude, and
decreasing two thirds the value of its products; hostile to morals,
repudiating among slaves the marital and parental condition, classifying
them by law as chattels, darkening the immortal soul, and making it a
crime to teach millions of human beings to read or write. And shall
labor and education, literature and science, religion and the press,
sustain an institution which is their deadly foe?

The discussion will be continued in my next letter.

R. J. WALKER.

PALMER, THE AMERICAN SCULPTOR.

Sculpture as an art is probably anterior to painting.

Form being a simpler quality than color,
the means of imitation were found in a conformity of shape rather
than hue. The origin of sculpture is somewhat obscured in the thickening
mists of antiquity, but it was no doubt one of the earliest symbols
of ideas made use of by man. In fact, in its primitive development, there is considerable
evidence to show that it was the first essay at a recorded language.
The Egyptian hieroglyphics, those mysterious etchings upon the rock,
representing animals, men, and nondescript characters, were unquestionably
rude attempts to hand down to posterity some account of the great
events of those forgotten ages. The next remove in the history of this art
is its employment in the production of the images of idolatrous worship;
and, when confined to this purpose, it never attained any appreciable
excellence. The purely heathen mind was incapable of conceiving those
forms of ideal beauty which are born of the contemplation of a divine
and spiritual beauty revealed in the word of God and the teachings
of his immaculate Son.

The grotesque Egyptian images worshipped on the Nile before the building
of the pyramids, are, judging from the best preserved antiquities,
not very much inferior to the gilded deities to be seen to-day in
the thousand pagodas of heathen lands.

Take for example a Chinese idol of modern make: while it is less angular
and more elaborately finished than the ancient monstrosities found in
Egypt, still, so far as perfection of form or beauty of expression
is concerned, there is little to choose between the two. Each is a fitting
type of the degree of civilization and soul culture of the peoples
that produced them. It must not be urged that the success of sculpture
in Greece and Rome disproves the proposition that the art could not
develop itself among a strictly idolatrous race.

The splendid mythologies of the Greeks and Romans must not be considered
as the highest forms even of the worship of idols or inanimate things.
The gods and goddesses of these mythological systems were principally
the powers that were supposed to preside over the different forces
and elements of nature, and were invested with the celestial attributes
of a higher order of beings.

Neptune ruled the sea, Pluto was director of ceremonies
in the infernal regions, while Jupiter was emperor of the sky and
king of all the lesser gods.

These deities were the invention of a cultivated intellect, a refined
taste and polished civilization, and furnish a striking proof of
man's longing after the Infinite, unguided by the star of revelation.

  "I am come to carry out that determination. My troops already occupy
  many positions in the country that you are to abandon, and thousands
  and thousands are approaching from every quarter to render
  assistance and escape alike hopeless. All those troops, regular and
  militia, are your friends. Receive them, and confide in them as
  such. Obey them when they tell you that you can remain no longer in
  this country. Soldiers are as kind-hearted as brave, and the desire
  of every one of us is to execute our painful duty in mercy. We are
  commanded by the President to act toward you in that spirit, and
  such is also the wish of the whole people of America.

  "Chiefs, headmen, and warriors, will you then by resistance compel
  us to resort to arms? God forbid! Or will you by flight seek to hide
  yourselves in mountains and forests, and thus oblige us to hunt you
  down? Remember, that in pursuit it may be impossible to avoid
  conflicts. The blood of the white man or the blood of the red man
  may be spilt, and if spilt, however accidentally, if may be
  impossible for the discreet and humane among you or among us to
  prevent a general war and carnage. Think of this, my Cherokee
  brethren! I am an old warrior, and have been present at many a scene
  of slaughter; but spare me, I beseech you, the horror of witnessing
  the destruction of the Cherokees.

  "Do not, I invite you, even wait for the close approach of the
  troops; but make such preparations for emigration as you can, and
  hasten to this place, to Ross's Landing, or to Gunter's Landing,
  where you will be received in kindness by officers selected for the
  purpose. You will find food for all, and clothing for the destitute,
  at either of those places, and thence at your ease and in comfort be
  transported to your new homes according to the terms of the treaty.

  "This is the address of a warrior to warriors. May his entreaties be
  kindly received, and may the God of both prosper the Americans and
  Cherokees, and preserve them long in peace and friendship with each
  other.                                         WINFIELD SCOTT."

There was some delay in bringing in the mountain Indians of North Carolina, but the Indians
of Tennessee and Alabama were readily collected for emigration. General Scott remained with
the Georgians, and followed up his printed addresses by suggestions which proved to be invaluable.

In a short time the Indians, excepting a few parties, were collected at the place of rendezvous.
The camp selected was twelve miles in length, with a breadth of four miles. It was well shaded
by large forest trees, and had a large number of springs furnishing an abundance of the best
of water.

The sick were placed in hospitals, and attended by good physicians and furnished with everything
necessary for their comfort. General Scott rode through the camps daily, and saw that every
attention was given to the Indians which they required, and he made inquiries and gave special
attention to the care of the sick and to the women and children. At length he placed the matter
of the emigration of the Indians in the hands of the Cherokee authorities, having won the entire
confidence and regard of the Indians, and he ordered all of the volunteers to their homes,
except one company which he retained as a police force, and one regiment of regulars which
it was thought necessary to retain to meet any unforeseen contingencies that might arise. Two
other regular regiments were ordered off, one to Florida and the other to the Canada frontier.
The company of volunteers retained was from Tennessee, and of it General Scott said: "The company
of volunteers (Tennesseeans) were a body of respectable citizens, and under their judicious
commander, Captain Robertson, of great value as a police force." The Cherokees were at this
time receiving large sums of money from the Government in the way of damages and indemnities,
and a number of gamblers and confidence men sought to enter their camps. They were, however,
kept out by the vigilance of the Tennessee company.

In October the movement west began. General Scott accompanied them to the junction of the Ohio
and Mississippi Rivers. General Scott gives credit for services and aid rendered him to his
acting inspector general, Major Matthew Mountjoy Payne; Captain Robert Anderson, acting adjutant
general (later the commander of Fort Sumter, and a brigadier general); Lieutenant Erastus Darwin
Keyes, aid-de-camp, afterward major general, United States volunteers; Lieutenant Francis Taylor,
commissary; Captains Page and Abner Reviere Hetzel, quartermasters; Lieutenant Henry L. Scott,
Fourth Infantry, then aid-de-camp and inspector general; Major H.B. Shaw, aid-de-camp, Tennessee
volunteers; Colonel William Lindsay, Second Artillery; Colonel William S. Foster, Fourth Infantry;
and Colonel Ichabod Bennett Crane, First Artillery. By obtaining a knowledge of his anatomy we shall
be enabled to account for his movements hereafter, when we see him
in his proper haunts.

His fore-legs, or, more correctly speaking, his arms, are apparently
much too long, while his hind-legs are very short, and look as if they
could be bent almost to the shape of a corkscrew. Both the fore- and
hind-legs, by their form and by the manner in which they are joined
to the body, are quite incapacitated from acting in a perpendicular
direction, or in supporting it on the earth, as the bodies of other
quadrupeds are supported by their legs.

Hence, when you place him on the floor, his belly touches the ground.
Now, granted that he supported himself on his legs like other animals,
nevertheless he would be in pain, for he has no soles to his feet, and
his claws are very sharp and long and curved; so that were his body
supported by his feet, it would be by their extremities, just as
your body would be were you to throw yourself on all-fours and try
to support it on the ends of your toes and fingers--a trying position.

Were the floor of glass, or of a polished surface, the sloth would actually be quite stationary; but as the ground is
generally rough, with little protuberances upon it, such as stones, or roots of grass, etc., this
just suits the sloth, and he moves his fore-legs in all directions,
in order to find something to lay hold of; and when he has succeeded
he pulls himself forward, and is thus enabled to travel onwards, but
at the same time in so tardy and awkward a manner as to acquire him
the name of sloth.

Indeed his looks and his gestures evidently betray his uncomfortable
situation: and as a sigh every now and then escapes him, we may be
entitled to conclude that he is actually in pain.

Some years ago I kept a sloth in my room for several months. I often
took him out of the house and placed him upon the ground, in order
to have an opportunity of observing his motions. If the ground were
rough, he would pull himself forwards by means of his fore-legs at
a pretty good pace, and he invariably immediately shaped his course
towards the nearest tree.

But if I put him upon a smooth and well-trodden part of the road, he
appeared to be in trouble and distress. His favourite abode was the
back of a chair and, after getting all his legs in a line upon the
topmost part of it, he would hang there for hours together, and often
with a low and inward cry would seem to invite me to take notice of
him.

The sloth, in its wild state, spends its whole life in trees, and never leaves them but through force
or by accident. An all-ruling Providence has ordered man to tread on
the surface of the earth, the eagle to soar in the expanse of the skies,
and the monkey and squirrel to inhabit the trees: still these may change
their relative situations without feeling much inconvenience; but the sloth
is doomed to spend his whole life in the trees, and, what is more
extraordinary, not upon the branches, like the squirrel and the monkey,
but under them.

He moves suspended from the branch, he rests suspended from it, and
he sleeps suspended from it.

To enable him to do this he must have a very different formation from
that of any other known quadruped.

Hence his seemingly bungled conformation is at once accounted for;
and in lieu of the sloth leading a painful life, and entailing a melancholy
and miserable existence on its progeny, it is but fair to surmise
that it just enjoys life as much as any other animal, and that its
extraordinary formation and singular habits are but further proofs
to engage us to admire the wonderful works of Omnipotence.

It must be observed that the sloth does not hang head-downwards like the vampire. When asleep he supports himself
from a branch parallel to the earth. He first seizes the branch with one
arm, and then with the other; and after that brings up both his
legs, one by one, to the same branch; so that all four are in a line:
he seems perfectly at rest in this position. Now had he a tail, he would
be at a loss to know what to do with it in this position: were he
to draw it up within his legs it would interfere with them, and were
he to let it hang down it would become the sport of the winds.

Thus his deficiency of tail is a benefit to him; it is merely an apology for
a tail, scarcely exceeding an inch and a half in length.

I observed, when he was climbing, he never used his arms both together, but first one and then the other,
and so on alternately.

There is a singularity in his hair, different from that of all other animals,
and, I believe, hitherto unnoticed by naturalists. His hair is thick
and coarse at the extremity, and gradually tapers to the root, where it
becomes fine as a spider's web.

His fur has so much the hue of the moss which grows on the branches
of the trees that it is very difficult to make him out when he is
at rest.

The male of the three-toed sloth has a longitudinal bar of very fine
black hair on his back, rather lower than the shoulder-blades; on
each side of this black bar there is a space of yellow hair, equally
fine; it has the appearance of being pressed into the body, and looks
exactly as if it had been singed.

If we examine the anatomy of his fore-legs, we shall immediately perceive
by their firm and muscular texture how very capable they are of supporting
the pendent weight of his body, both in climbing and at rest; and,
instead of pronouncing them a bungled composition, as a celebrated
naturalist has done, we shall consider them as remarkably well calculated
to perform their extraordinary functions.

As the sloth is an inhabitant of forests within the tropics, where
the trees touch each other in the greatest profusion, there seems
to be no reason why he should confine himself to one tree alone for
food, and entirely strip it of its leaves.

During the many years I have ranged the forests I have never seen
a tree in such a state of nudity; indeed, I would hazard a conjecture
that, by the time the animal had finished the last of the old leaves,
there would be a new crop on the part of the tree he had stripped
first, ready for him to begin again, so quick is the process of vegetation
in these countries.

There is a saying amongst the Indians that, when the wind blows, the sloth begins to travel. In calm weather
he remains tranquil, probably not liking to cling to the brittle extremity
of the branches, lest they should break with him in passing from one
tree to another; but as soon as the wind rises the branches of the neighbouring
trees become interwoven, and then the sloth seizes hold of them and
pursues his journey in safety.

There is seldom an entire day of calm in these forests. The tradewind
generally sets in about ten o'clock in the morning, and thus the
sloth may set off after breakfast, and get a considerable way before
dinner.

He travels at a good round pace; and were you to see him pass from
tree to tree, as I have done, you would never think of calling him
a sloth.

Thus it would appear that the different histories we have of this quadruped
are erroneous on two accounts: first, that the writers of them, deterred
by difficulties and local annoyances, have not paid sufficient attention
to him in his native haunts; and secondly, they have described him
in a situation in which he was never intended by Nature to cut a figure:
I mean on the ground.

The sloth is as much at a loss to proceed on his journey upon a smooth
and level floor as a man would be who had to walk a mile in stilts
upon a line of feather-beds.

One day, as we were crossing the Essequibo, I saw a large two-toed sloth on the ground upon the
bank. How he had got there nobody could tell: the Indian said he had never surprised a sloth in such a situation
before. He would hardly have come there to drink, for both above
and below the place the branches of the trees touched the water,
and afforded him an easy and safe access to it.

Be this as it may, though the trees were not above twenty yards from him, he could not make his way
through the sand time enough to escape before we landed.

As soon as we got up to him he threw himself upon his back, and defended himself in gallant style
with his fore- legs.

"Come, poor fellow," said I to him, "if thou hast got into a hobble
to-day, thou shalt not suffer for it.

I'll take no advantage of thee in misfortune; the forest is large enough both for thee and me to rove
in: go thy ways up above, and enjoy thyself in these endless wilds;
it is more than probable thou wilt never have another interview with
man.

So
fare thee well."

On saying this, I took a long stick which was lying there, held it for him to hook on, and then conveyed
him to a high and stately mora. He ascended with wonderful rapidity, and in about a minute
he was almost at the top of the tree. He now went off in a side direction, and caught hold of the branch
of a neighbouring tree; he then proceeded towards the heart of the
forest.

I stood looking on, lost in amazement at his singular mode of progress.
I followed him with my eye till the intervening branches closed in
betwixt us; and then I lost sight for ever of the two-toed sloth.

I was going to add that I never saw a sloth take to his heels in such earnest:
but the expression will not do, for the sloth has no heels.

That which naturalists have advanced of his being so tenacious of life is perfectly true. I saw the heart
of one beat for half an hour after it was taken out of the body. The wourali
poison seems to be the only thing that will kill it quickly. On reference
to a former part of these wanderings, it will be seen that a poisoned
arrow killed the sloth in about ten minutes.

So much for this harmless, unoffending animal.

He holds a conspicuous place in the catalogue of the animals of the
new world.

Though naturalists have made no mention of what follows, still it is not less true on that account. The sloth
is the only quadruped known which spends its whole life from the branch of a tree, suspended by his
feet. I have paid uncommon attention to him in his native haunts. The
monkey and squirrel will seize a branch with their fore-feet, and pull themselves
up, and rest or run upon it; but the sloth, after seizing it, still
remains suspended, and suspended moves along under the branch, till
he can lay hold of another.

Whenever I have seen him in his native woods, whether at rest or asleep
or on his travels, I have always observed that he was suspended from
the branch of a tree.

When his form and anatomy are attentively considered, it will appear evident that the sloth cannot
be at ease in any situation where his body is higher, or above, his
feet.

We will now take our leave of him.

In the far-extending wilds of Guiana the traveller will be astonished
at the immense quantity of ants which he perceives on the ground and
in the trees.

They have nests in the branches four or five times as large as that of
the rook; and they have a covered way from them to the ground.

In this covered way thousands are perpetually passing and repassing; and if you destroy part of
it, they turn to and immediately repair it.

Other species of ants again have no covered way, but travel exposed to view
upon the surface of the earth.

You will sometimes see a string of these ants a mile long, each carrying in its mouth, to its
nest, a green leaf the size of a sixpence.

It is wonderful to observe the order in which they move, and with
what pains and labour they surmount the obstructions of the path.

The ants have their enemies as well as the rest of animated nature.
Amongst the foremost of these stand the three species of ant-bears.

The smallest is not much larger than a rat; the next is nearly the size of
a fox; and the third a stout and powerful animal, measuring about
six feet from the snout to the end of the tail.

He is the most inoffensive of all animals, and never injures the property of man. He is chiefly found in
the inmost recesses of the forest, and seems partial to the low and
swampy parts near creeks, where the troely-tree grows.

There he goes up and down in quest of ants, of which there is never
the least scarcity; so that he soon obtains a sufficient supply of
food with very little trouble.

He cannot travel fast; man is superior to him in speed. Without swiftness
to enable him to escape from his enemies, without teeth, the possession
of which would assist him in self-defence, and without the power
of burrowing in the ground, by which he might conceal himself from
his pursuers, he still is capable of ranging through these wilds
in perfect safety; nor does he fear the fatal pressure of the serpent's
fold or the teeth of the famished jaguar.

Nature has formed his fore-legs wonderfully thick and strong and muscular, and armed his feet
with three tremendous sharp and crooked claws. Whenever he seizes an animal with these formidable
weapons he hugs it close to his body, and keeps it there till it dies through pressure or through
want of food.

Nor does the ant-bear, in the meantime, suffer much from loss of aliment,
as it is a well-known fact that he can go longer without food than,
perhaps, any other animal, except the land-tortoise.

His skin is of a texture that perfectly resists the bite of a dog; his
hinder-parts are protected by thick and shaggy hair, while his immense
tail is large enough to cover his whole body.

The Indians have a great dread of coming in contact with the ant-bear
and, after disabling him in the chase, never think of approaching
him till he be quite dead.

It is perhaps on account of this caution that naturalists have never yet given to the world
a true and correct drawing of this singular animal, or described the peculiar position of his
fore-feet when he walks or stands.

If, in taking a drawing from a dead ant-bear, you judge of the position
in which he stands from that of all other terrestrial animals, the
sloth excepted, you will be in error.

Examine only a figure of this animal in books of natural history, or
inspect a stuffed specimen in the best museums, and you will see that
the fore-claws are just in the same forward attitude as those of a dog,
or a common bear when he walks or stands.

          

                      

  
  
  
  But this is a distorted and unnatural position, and in life would be
  a painful and intolerable attitude for the ant-bear.
  
  
  The length and curve of his claws cannot admit of such a position. When
  he walks or stands his feet have somewhat the appearance of a club-hand.

He
  goes entirely on the outer side of his fore-feet, which are quite bent inwards,
  the claws collected into a point, and going under the foot.
  
In this position he is quite at ease, while his long claws are disposed
of in a manner to render them harmless to him and are prevented from
becoming dull and worn, like those of the dog, which would inevitably
be the case did their points come in actual contact with the ground;
for his claws have not that retractile power which is given to animals
of the feline species, by which they are enabled to preserve the sharpness
of their claws on the most flinty path.

  
  A slight inspection of the fore-feet of the ant-bear will immediately convince
you of the mistake artists and naturalists have fallen into by putting
his fore-feet in the same position as those of other quadrupeds,
for you will perceive that the whole outer side of his foot is not
only deprived of hair, but is hard and callous: proof positive of
its being in perpetual contact with the ground.

Now, on the contrary, the inner side of the bottom of his foot is soft
and rather hairy.

  

There is another singularity in the anatomy of the ant-bear, I believe
as yet unnoticed in the page of natural history.

He has two very large glands situated below the root of the tongue. From
these is emitted a glutinous liquid, with which his long tongue is
lubricated when he puts it into the ants' nests.

These glands are of the same substance as those found in the lower jaw
of the woodpecker.

                                                

The secretion from them, when wet, is very clammy and adhesive, but on being dried it loses these qualities,
and you can pulverise it betwixt your finger and thumb; so that in dissection, if any of it has
got upon the fur of the animal or the feathers of the bird, allow it
to dry there, and then it may be removed without leaving the least
stain behind.

The ant-bear is a pacific animal. He is never the first to begin the attack. His motto may be "Noli me
tangere." As his habits and his haunts differ materially from those of every other animal in
the forest, their interests never clash, and thus he might live to
a good old age, and die at last in peace, were it not that his flesh
is good food.

On this account the Indian wages perpetual war against him and, as he
cannot escape by flight, he falls an easy prey to the poisoned arrow shot
from the Indian's bow at a distance.

If ever he be closely attacked by dogs, he immediately throws himself on his back, and if he be
fortunate enough to catch hold of his enemy with his tremendous claws, the invader is sure to pay for
his rashness with the loss of life.

We will now take a view of the vampire.

As there was a free entrance and exit to the vampire in the loft where I slept, I had many a fine
opportunity of paying attention to this nocturnal surgeon. He does not always live on blood. When
the moon shone bright, and the fruit of the banana-tree was ripe, I could see him approach
and eat it. He would also bring into the loft, from the forest,
a green round fruit something like the wild guava and about the size
of a nutmeg. There was something also in the blossom of the sawarri nut-tree
which was grateful to him, for on coming up Waratilla Creek, in a moonlight
night, I saw several vampires fluttering round the top of the sawarri-tree,
and every now and then the blossoms, which they had broken off, fell
into the water.

They certainly did not drop off naturally, for on examining several
of them they appeared quite fresh and blooming.

So I concluded the vampires pulled them from the tree either to get at
the incipient fruit or to catch the insects which often take up their abode
in flowers.

The
vampire, in general, measures about twenty-six inches from wing
to wing extended, though I once killed one which measured thirty-two
inches.

He frequents old abandoned houses and hollow trees; and sometimes a cluster
of them may be seen in the forest hanging head downwards from the
branch of a tree.

Goldsmith seems to have been aware that the vampire hangs in clusters;
for in the Deserted Village, speaking of America, he says:

And matted
woods, where birds forget to sing, But silent bats in drowsy clusters
cling.

The vampire has a curious membrane which rises from the
nose, and gives it a very singular appearance. It has been remarked before that
there are two species of vampire in Guiana, a larger and a smaller. The
larger sucks men and other animals; the smaller seems to confine himself chiefly to
birds.

I learnt from a gentleman high up in the River Demerara that he was completely
unsuccessful with his fowls on account of the small vampire.

He showed me some that had been sucked the night before, and they were
scarcely able to walk.

Some years ago I went to the River Paumaron with a Scotch gentleman,
by name Tarbet.

We hung our hammocks in the thatched loft of a planter's house. Next morning
I heard this gentleman muttering in his hammock, and now and then letting
fall an imprecation or two just about the time he ought to have been
saying his morning prayers.

"What is the matter, sir?" said I softly. "Is anything amiss?" "What's
the matter?" answered he surlily; "why, the vampires have been sucking
me to death."

As soon as there was light enough I went to his hammock
and saw it much stained with blood. "There," said he, thrusting his foot
out of the hammock, "see how these infernal imps have been drawing my
life's blood."

On examining his foot I found the vampire had tapped his great
toe: there was a wound somewhat less than that made by a leech; the
blood was still oozing from it; I conjectured he might have lost from
ten to twelve ounces of blood. Whilst examining it, I think I put him into
a worse humour by remarking that a European surgeon would not have
been so generous as to have blooded him without making a charge.

He looked up in my face, but did
not say a word: I saw he was of opinion that I had better have spared
this piece of ill-timed levity.

It was not the last punishment of this good gentleman in the River Paumaron.
The next night he was doomed to undergo a kind of ordeal unknown in
Europe. There is a species of large red ant in Guiana sometimes called
ranger, sometimes coushie. These ants march in millions through the country
in compact order, like a regiment of soldiers: they eat up every
insect in their march; and if a house obstruct their route, they do
not turn out of the way, but go quite through it.

Though they sting cruelly when molested,
the planter is not sorry to see them in his house, for it is but a
passing visit, and they destroy every kind of insect-vermin that has
taken shelter under his roof.

Now in the British plantations of Guiana, as well as in Europe, there is
always a little temple dedicated to the goddess Cloacina.

Our dinner had chiefly consisted of crabs dressed
in rich and different ways. Paumaron is famous for crabs, and strangers
who go thither consider them the greatest luxury. The Scotch gentleman made
a very capital dinner on crabs; but this change of diet was productive
of unpleasant circumstances: he awoke in the night in that state
in which Virgil describes Caeleno to have been, viz.

"faedissima ventris
proluvies."

Up he got to verify the
remark:

Serius aut citius, sedem properamus ad unam.

Now, unluckily for himself and the nocturnal tranquillity of the planter's
house, just at that unfortunate hour the coushie-ants were passing
across the seat of Cloacina's temple. He had never dreamed of this;
and so, turning his face to the door, he placed himself in the usual situation
which the votaries of the goddess generally take.

Had a lighted match dropped upon a pound of gunpowder, as
he afterwards remarked, it could not have caused a greater recoil.
Up he jumped and forced his way out, roaring for help and for a light,
for he was worried alive by ten thousand devils. The fact is he had
sat down upon an intervening body of coushie-ants. Many of those which
escaped being crushed to death turned again, and in revenge stung the unintentional
intruder most severely. The watchman had fallen asleep, and it was some time
before a light could be procured, the fire having gone out; in the meantime
the poor gentleman was suffering an indescribable martyrdom, and
would have found himself more at home in the Augean stable than in
the planter's house.

I had often wished to have been once sucked by the vampire in order
that I might have it in my power to say it had really happened to me. There
can be no pain in the operation, for the patient is always asleep
when the vampire is sucking him; and as for the loss of a few ounces
of blood, that would be a trifle in the long run.

Many a night have I slept with
my foot out of the hammock to tempt this winged surgeon, expecting
that he would be there, but it was all in vain; the vampire never
sucked me, and I could never account for his not doing so, for we
were inhabitants of the same loft for months together.

The armadillo is very common in these forests; he burrows in the sandhills
like a rabbit. As it often takes a considerable time to dig him out
of his hole, it would be a long and laborious business to attack each
hole indiscriminately without knowing whether the animal were there
or not.

To prevent disappointment the Indians carefully examine the
mouth of the hole, and put a short stick down it. Now if, on introducing
the stick, a number of mosquitos come out, the Indians know to a certainty
that the armadillo is in it: whenever there are no mosquitos in the
hole there is no armadillo.

The Indian having satisfied himself that
the armadillo is there by the mosquitos which come out, he immediately
cuts a long and slender stick and introduces it into the hole. The proposed
treaty for annexation was rejected by the Senate June 8, 1844, by a vote of thirty-five to
sixteen. Mr. Benton presented a plan for the peaceful acquisition of Texas, but the Senate
refused to adopt it.

President Tyler in his last message again referred to the war between Mexico and Texas, and
said: "I repeat now what I then said, that after eight years of feeble and ineffectual efforts
to recover Texas, it was time that the war should have ceased."

When the convention of the Whig party met at Harrisburg, Pa., December 4, 1839, to nominate
a candidate for the presidency, General Scott's name was presented. He had addressed a number
of letters to members of the convention urging that, if there appeared any prospect of success,
Mr. Clay should be selected, and if not, that the choice should fall on General William Henry
Harrison. The total number of votes in the convention was two hundred and fifty-four. Of these,
General Scott received the votes of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Vermont, and Michigan--in
all, sixty-two. The States which had voted for General Scott gave their votes eventually to
General Harrison, who received the nomination. General Scott said of General Harrison, "But
the nomination and success of General Harrison," if his life had been spared some four years
longer, would have been no detriment to the country. With excellent intentions and objects,
and the good sense to appoint able counselors, the country would not have been retarded in
its prosperity nor disgraced by corruption in high places. No one can, of course, be held responsible
for sudden deaths among men. A single month in office ended President Harrison's life, when
the plaint of Burke occurred to all, "What shadows we are, what shadows we pursue!" In June,
1841, Major-General Macomb having died, General Scott was called to take up his residence in
Washington as general in chief of the army. Among his first orders was one which put a stop
to arbitrary and illegal punishments in the army.

An effort was made in the House of Representatives of the next Congress in 1844 to reduce his
pay, but being resisted by Charles J. Ingersoll, of Philadelphia, and ex-President John Quincy
Adams, it was voted down by a large majority. The Servian Government had formerly disclaimed any complicity with the
assassination and had pledged itself to punish any Servian citizen
implicated therein.

From time to time, from June 28 to July 23, there came semi-inspired
intimations from Vienna that that country intended to act with great
self-restraint and in the most pacific manner.

In his speech to the French Chamber of Deputies, Viviani says that Europe
had in the interval preceding July 23 express assurances from Austria that
its course would be moderate and conciliatory.

Never was it even hinted that Germany and Austria were about to apply in
a time of profound peace a match to the powder magazine of Europe.
It is one of the most significant documents in the entire correspondence.

As the full text of the ultimatum first reached the Foreign Chancelleries
nearly twenty-four hours after its service upon Servia, the other
European nations had barely a day to consider what could be done to
preserve the peace of Europe before that peace was fatally compromised.

[German

"White Paper," Annex 1B.]

How could Germany thus indorse the "demands"
if it did not know the substance of the ultimatum?

Let us, then, analyze the record as already made up; and for the sake
of clearness the events which preceded the war will be considered
chronologically.

He justly observes that

"a refusal to extend the terms of the ultimatum
... would be in contradiction with the very bases of international
relations."

Concurrently with Sazonof's plea for a little time to preserve the
peace of the world, Sir Edward Grey had seen the German Ambassador
on July 24 and had suggested to him that the only method of preventing
the catastrophe was

"that the four powers, Germany, France, Italy,
and ourselves, (England,) should work together simultaneously at Vienna
and St. Petersburg."

To which the only reply of the Austrian Foreign Minister was that their
representative in Servia

"was under instructions to leave Belgrade
unless Austrian demands were accepted in their integrity by 4 P.M.
tomorrow."

[English "White Paper," No. 7.]

Austria's only concession then or
subsequently to the cause of peace was the assurance that Austria
would not after its conquest of Servia demand any territory.



In March, 1845, as stated, Congress passed a joint resolution for the annexation of the republic
of Texas, and in July of that year Brigadier-General Zachary Taylor, then commanding the first
department of the United States army in the Southwest, was ordered to Texas. He embarked at
New Orleans with fifteen hundred troops, and in August established his camp at Corpus Christi. This latter
has been twice translated into German, Leipz.

1839, and
Berlin 1846.]

[Footnote 92: Starozytney wiessci z XI go XVI go i
XVII go wieko.

The author had published a similar work before.

Polish proverbs have also been collected by Knapski and Rysinski.]

[Footnote 93: Zarysy
domowe, Warsaw 1841; and Niewasty Polskie, Wars.

1844.]

[Footnote 94: Klechdy, Starozytnye powviesci i podania ludu
Polskigo i Rusi, Warsaw 1837.]

[Footnote 95: Piesni ludu bielachrobatow,
Mazurow i Rusiz nad Buga, Lemb 1838.]

[Footnote 96: Duma, Dumka,
means thought, and is the name of the elegaic, mostly historical,
ballads of the Malo-Russian people.]

[Footnote 97: See more on this
subject in Part IV.]

[Footnote 98: The title is Spiewy historyczne
Cesarstwa Rossyiskiego, i.e. Historical songs of the Russian emperors.]

[Footnote
99: The English reader will find further information on Polish literature
in Bowring's Introduction to his Polish Anthology, Lond.

1827; in Ljach Szyrma's Letters on Poland, published in
London; and in an article on Polish Literature in the Foreign Quarterly
Review, Vol.

XXV. No. 49. These are the only sources in the English language with
which we are acquainted.

In grammatical and lexical works the Polish language is very rich;
but the interest which the English have recently shown for the fate
of the Poles seems not to extend to their language.

The following are the principal works.

GRAMMARS: in German, Krumholz Polnische Grammatik, Breslau 1797, 6th edit. Auszug
aus Kopczynski's Grammatik, von Polsfuss, Breslau 1794, Mrongovius
Poln.

Sprachlehre, Königsb 1794, and in
several altered editions, under different titles; last edition Danzig 1836.
Szumski's Poln. Gramm. Posen 1830.

Vater's Grammatik der Poln. Sprache, Halle 1807. Bantkie Poln. Grammatik
attached to his Dictionary, Breslau 1808-1824. Szrzeniawa Wortforschungslehre
der polnischen Sprache, Lemberg and Lemgo 1842-43.

Poplinski Polnische Grammatik,
Lissa 1836; last edition 1840. Stostakowskiego Polska Gramm.

Trzemeszne 1846. Schieweck Grammatik der. Polnischen Sprache, Fraustadt and Neustadt 1847. In French, Kopczynski
Essai d'une grammaire Polonaise, Wars. 1807. Trambczynski Grammatique
raisonnée de la langue Polonaise, new edit. Warsaw 1793.

DICTIONARIES, in German and French.

The most useful are, Mrongovius Handwörterbuch der Poln. Sprachte, latest edit.
Danz. 1823.

Troc Franz-poln.-deutsches Wörterbuch in several editions from 1742
to 1821.

J.V. Bantkie Taschenwörterbuch der Poln. Sprache, (German and French,) Breslau
and Wars. in several editions from 1805 to 1819.

Slownik Francusko-Polski, Dictionaire Polonais Français, Berlin and
Leipzig 1839-45. Dict. Polonais-Francais, 2 vols. 18mo. Paris 1844. J.A.E.
Schmidt, Nouveau Dictionaire portatif Francais et Polonais, Zerbst
1817.

Polnisch-Deutsches Taschenwörterbuch, von Jordan, Leipzig 1845.--Standard
works for the language are the etymological dictionaries: G.S. Bantkie
Slownik dokladny iez. pol. i. niem.

Breslau 1806, and Linde's Slownik iez. pol. Wars. 1807-14. For other philological
works, see Schaflarik's Geschichte der Slav.

The north-eastern part of Germany, as far west as the Elbe and Saale,
was, from the fifth to the tenth century, almost exclusively inhabited
by nations of the Slavic race.

Various Teutonic
tribes--among them the Burgundians, the Suevi, Heruli, and Hermunduri--had
before this taken up their temporary residence along the Baltic, between
the Vistula and the Elbe.

In
the great migration of the Asiatic-European nations, which for nearly
two centuries kept in motion all Europe from the Icy Ocean to the
Atlantic, and extended even to the north of Africa, the warlike German
nations moved towards the south-west, and Slavic tribes traversing
the Danube and Vistula, in immense multitudes, took possession of
the countries which they left.

Those who came over the northern Vistula, settled along the coasts
of the Baltic as far west as to the Elbe and Saale, and as far south
as to the Erzgebirge (Ore Mountains) on the borders of Bohemia.

These Slavic tribes were called by the Germans, Wenden, Lat.

Venedi, for which we prefer in English the form of Vendes, rather than that of Wends. It appears indeed that this
name was formerly applied by the Germans indiscriminately to all
the Slavic nations with which they came in contact; for the name Winden,
Eng.

Vindes, which is still, as we have seen, the German appellation for the Slovenzi, or the Slavic inhabitants
of Southern Germany, is evidently the same in a slightly altered
form.

The name of Wenden, Vendes, became, however, in the course of time, a specific
appellation for the northern German-Slavic tribes; of which, at the present day,
only a few meagre remnants are left.

They were nevertheless once a powerful nation. Five independent branches
must be distinguished among them.

We first name the Obotrites, the former inhabitants of the present duchies
of Mecklenburg, and the adjacent country, west, north, and south. They were
divided into the Obotrites proper, the Wagrians in Holstein, and
the Polabæ and Linones on the banks of the Elbe and Leine; but were
united under a common chief or king.

They and their eastern neighbours the Wiltzi, (Germ. Wilzen, Lat. Veletabæ,)
with whom they lived in perpetual warfare, were the most warlike and powerful
among the Vendish tribes. The Wiltzi or Pomeranians lived interspersed with the Kassubes,
a Lekhish tribe, between the Oder and the Vistula, and were subjugated
by the Obotrites in A.D. 782. It was however only by the utmost exertions,
that these latter could maintain their own independence against their
western and southern neighbours, the Germans. Conquered by Charlemagne, they
regained their independence under his successors, and centuries passed
away in constant and bloody conflicts and alternate fortunes.

In the middle of the twelfth century, however, they were completely subjugated
by Henry the Lion, duke of Saxony and Bavaria. He laid waste their whole
country, destroyed most of the people, and compelled the few remaining
inhabitants and their prince, to accept Christianity from his bloody
hands.

In A.D. 1167 he restored to this latter, whose name was Pribislaus, a part of
his kingdom, and gave his daughter Matilda in marriage to the son of Pribislaus,
who, a few years later, was made a prince of the empire, and was
thus gained over to the German cause. His descendants are the present
dukes of Mecklenburg; and it is a memorable fact, that these princes
are at the present day the only sovereigns in Europe of the Slavic
race.

German priests and German colonists introduced the German language; although we find
that Bruno, the chief missionary among the Obotrites, preached before
them in their own language.

The Slavic dialect spoken by them expired gradually; and probably without ever having been reduced to writing,
except for the sake of curiosity when very near its extinction.

The only documents of it, which have come down to us, are a few incomplete vocabularies, compiled
among the Polabæ and Linones, i.e. the inhabitants adjacent to the
Elbe, in Slavic Labe, and to the Leine, in Slavic Linac.

Long after the whole region was perfectly Germanized, a few towns in the eastern
corner of the present kingdom of Hanover, were still almost exclusively
inhabited by a people of Slavic race, who in the seventeenth century,
and even to the middle of the eighteenth, had preserved in some measure
their language and habits.

But, since the Germans were strongly prejudiced against the Vendish
name,--the nations of this race, especially those in the western part
of the German territories, being despised as subjugated tribes, and
inferior in general knowledge and information,--they gradually renounced
their national peculiarities.

Towards the close of the seventeenth century, when Hennings, German
pastor at Wustrow, took great pains to collect among them historical
notices and a vocabulary of their language, he found the youth already
ignorant of the latter, and the old people almost ashamed of knowing
it, or at least afraid of being laughed at by their children.

They took his inquiries, and those of other intelligent persons, in respect to their ancient language
and usages, as intended to ridicule them, and denied at first any knowledge
of those matters. We find, however, that preaching in the Vendish language
of this region was still continued for some time later. Divine service
was held in it for the last time at Wustrow, in the year 1751.

According to the vocabularies which Hennings and a few others collected, their dialect, like that spoken in Lower
Lusatia, was nearly related to the Polish language; partaking however
in some peculiarities of the Bohemian, and not without some of its own.[1]

The
second great Vendish tribe, the Wiltzi or Pomeranians (Germ. Wilzen), also
called Veletabæ, were, as we said above, subjugated in A.D. 782 by the Obotrites;
and the country between the Oder and the Vistula formed for more
than a hundred and fifty years a part of the great Vendish kingdom.

They regained, however, even before the final dissolution of this latter
in A.D. 1026, the partial independence of their own dukes; who attached
themselves to Germany, and afterwards, under the name of the dukes
of Pomerania, became princes of the empire.

In the year 1124 the first Pomeranians were baptized by Otho, bishop of Bamberg; and the place where
this act was performed, Ottosbrunnen (Otho's Well), which five hundred
years ago was encircled by four lime-trees, is still shown to the
traveller.

                     As they received religion and instruction from Germany, the influence of the
German language can easily be accounted for. German colonists aided in
spreading it throughout the whole country.

The last person who understood the old Pomeranian language, is said
to have died in the year 1404. No trace of it remains, excepting only
the names of places and persons, the Slavic origin of which can be
recognized throughout all north-eastern Germany by the terminations
in its, enz, ik, or ow.

  
  In A.D. 1637 the line
  
  of the old Pomeranian dukes expired, and the country fell to Brandenburg,
  
  with the exception of that part which Sweden usurped at the peace of
  Westphalia. The island of Rügen, which till A.D. 1478 had its own
  
  native princes, belonged to this latter. It is the principal seat
  of German-Slavic antiquities. The ancient Rugians and their gods are mentioned
  by Tacitus, and described by Saxo Grammaticus. The old chronicles and legends,
founded on still older traditions, speak of a large and flourishing city
named Vineta on the small island Wollin, south-east of Rügen, once
the principal seat of the western Slavic commerce, and, as Herder
calls it, the Slavic Amsterdam.

This city is said by some to have been destroyed by the Danes; by others
to have been ingulfed in the sea by the sinking of the ground beneath
it. Modern inquirers, however, have doubted whether it ever existed;
and, hard as it is to renounce the many poetical associations attached to
such a subject,--so similar to those which fill the mind in thinking
of Pompeii and Herculaneum,--their objections have not yet been satisfactorily
refuted.

  
  
  
  
The third separate branch of the Vendish stem were the Ukrians, or Border-Vendes,
Germ. Ukern, from Ukraina, border. They lived in the territory which
afterwards became the margravate of Brandenburg, and were divided
into several tribes, as the Hevelli on the banks of the Havel, the
Retarians, etc. Their situation was such, that constant conflicts
between them and the guardians or watch of the German frontiers, the
Saxon margraves on the other side of the Elbe, were unavoidable.

    

These served gradually to extend the German marches or frontiers further
and further, until in the year 1134 Albert the Bear, count of Ascania,
finally conquered the Vendes.

                       

    

The Slavic inhabitants of this region were cruelly and completely destroyed; the country was repeopled
by German and Dutch colonists, and given as a fief by the emperor to Albert the Bear, the first margrave
of Brandenburg. Brandenburg was the German form for Brannibor, the most
considerable of the Vendish cities, after which the country was called.
The names of places, many of them altered in a similar manner, are
indeed the only weak traces of the Vendish language once spoken in
this part of Germany.

No tribe of the Vendes seems
to have been so completely extinguished; the present inhabitants
of Brandenburg being of as pure a German origin, as those of any other
part of Germany.

The descendants of only two Vendish tribes have preserved their language;
and even these, from powerful nations spread over the surface of
at least 4800 geographical square miles, have shrunk into the comparatively
small number of scarcely two hundred thousand individuals, now inhabitants
of Upper and Lower Lusatia.

Nearly all of them are peasants; for the higher classes, even if Slavic
blood perhaps runs in their veins, are completely Germanized. These tribes
are the Sorabians, Lat. Sorabæ, Germ. Sorben, in Lusatia, divided
into two different branches.

They call themselves to this very day Servians, or rather (as also their
brethren on the Danube) Serbs; their language, the Serbish language.
Although in fact two distinct tribes, and speaking different dialects,
yet their early history cannot well be separated.

After the dissolution of the great kingdom of Thuringia by the Francs and
Saxons in the year 1528, the Sorabians, or Sorbæ, took possession
of the countries left by the Hermunduri, viz. the territory between
the Harz mountains, the Saale, and the Erzgebirge, and extended their
dominion in a northern direction to the seats of their brethren, the
Ukrians, and towards the east as far as to the region in which their
near relations, the Lekhes. about the same time had settled.

They made slaves of the few German inhabitants whom they found scattered
through this country; and according to their industrious habits, began
immediately after their arrival to cultivate the soil, to build cities,
and to trade in the productions of the country.

Although not strictly a warlike people, they were able for several centuries to defend their frontiers against the frequent
attacks of their German neighbours on the other side of the Saale, and to give them trouble in return.
But they yielded before the arms of Charlemagne; and after a short interval
of renewed independence, they were completely subjugated and made tributary
by Henry I. Their country, according to the German custom, was divided
into marches, and populated with German settlers.

These latter
more especially occupied the towns, and built villages among the woods and mountains; whilst the Vendes, chiefly
addicted to agriculture, continued to occupy the plains.

But even on the plains, there soon arose the castles of German knights, their masters
and oppressors; and the Vendish population was by degrees reduced to
the miserable condition of serfs.

In the year 968, the first attempt was made to convert them to Christianity,
partly by the sword of the conqueror, partly by the instruction of
Christian missionaries.

But more than one century passed away, before the Christian religion
was fully introduced among them.

Benno, bishop of Meissen, who died in A.D. 1106, at the age of ninety-six,
acquired by his activity in the work of converting the Vendes, the name
of the apostle of the Slavi. The obstinate resistance with which the
Christian religion had been rejected by them, can easily be explained
by the unjudicious, nay flagitious way, in which it was presented to them
by the Germans; who came among them, the sword in one hand and the cross in the
other; and exacted moreover from them the sacrifice of their language,
their customs, their whole nationality in exchange.

The naturally childlike and submissive disposition of the Slavi rendered them in all other regions,
as we have seen, willing to receive the Christian doctrines, more
especially when their superiors themselves acted as their apostles,
as was in some measure the case with the Russian Vladimir, Jagello in
Lithuania, etc.[2] But the mode described above, which was adopted
by the German heroes, not only among the Vendes, but also some centuries
later among the old Borussians, could not but rouse all their feelings
of pride and nationality to a decided resistance.

Even when the Germans refrained from force, their means of conversion were equally opposed to the spirit of
Christianity. Bishop Otho of Bamberg, for instance, was accustomed, when on his missionary travels, to
have fifty or more wagons in his train loaded with cloth, victuals, and other
supplies, in order to reward on the spot those who submitted to baptism.[3]

But
the holy light of Christianity, even after the Vendish tribes had
embraced its doctrines, did not clear up the darkness of their fate. The
whole humiliating relation between masters and serfs in Germany,
which still degraded the last century, was unknown to the free ancient
Germans, among whom only the prisoner of war was a slave; and is derived
from the period of the submission of the Vendes.

The Germans indeed seem to have considered them as an inferior race, and
treated them accordingly. The contempt with which the old historians
speak of them, is revolting to every liberal and unprejudiced mind,
and can hardly be explained.

For the Sorabians seem to have been at the time of their submission, superior on the whole to the Germans in
respect to civilization; although in consequence of this contemptuous
treatment, they in the course of time fell far behind them.

Despised and oppressed, they were kept for centuries in a state of ignorance and neglect;
from which, it seems, they could only escape by renouncing their Slavic peculiarities,
and above all their language. The use of this latter before courts of justice
was in the fourteenth century forbidden by law throughout most of
the country. In the beginning of the same century, the Vendish language
was still sometimes heard at Leipzig, but not afterwards.

In the villages also it became wholly extinct fifty or a hundred years
later; and only single words passed over into the German language.

But this was not the case with their usages and other national peculiarities; there are still several
tribes, nay the peasants of whole provinces in this part of Germany, in whom the Slavic origin
can be distinctly traced.[4] Their language however was driven into the remotest eastern corner
of their former extensive territory; and is there, and only there, still to be heard. We speak
of the province called Lusatia, situated between Saxony, Bohemia, Silesia, and Brandenburg, of
which the greatest part is at present under the Prussian dominion, and the smallest but richest portion under
that of Saxony.

Lushitze, Lusatia, Germ.

Lausitz, signifies in Slavic, a low marshland. This name was formerly applied only to the north-eastern part
of this province, or Lower Lusatia, which is, or was at least at the time of the Vendish settlement, a country
of that description.

At a later period, the name was carried over very improperly to the south-western
part, or Upper Lusatia, a beautiful and mountainous region. Lusatia
was given by Henry I, as a fief, to the margrave of Meissen. In the course
of the following centuries, its two parts were repeatedly separated and reunited,
alternately under the dominion of the last named margrave, of Poland,
or of Bohemia, without however belonging to the German empire. In the
fourteenth century it was at length incorporated with Bohemia, and remained
so for nearly three hundred years. To this circumstance alone the partial
preservation of the Vendish language is to be ascribed. At the peace
of Prague, A.D. 1636, it was allotted to Saxony.

At the congress of Vienna in 1815, it was assigned, with the exception
of the smaller half of Upper Lusatia, to Prussia, to which monarchy it
still belongs.

1. Language of the Sorabians in Upper Lusatia.

The cities of Bautzen, Zittau, Kamenz, Löbau, and their districts, form the Saxon part of Upper Lusatia.
Of its 195,000 inhabitants, about the fourth or fifth part still speak the Vendish language. In the north-eastern
part of Upper Lusatia, which belongs to Prussia, there is about the same proportion of Vendish
inhabitants. In both territories the whole number of Vendes is about 100,000. Their language is very nearly
related to the Bohemian; where the Sorabians of Lower Lusatia and the
Poles pronounce the letter h, the Upper Lusatians and Bohemians give the
sound of g. Both Lusatian dialects have of course lost very many of their
original peculiarities; thus both have adopted the article from the
German language.

The Reformation exhibited here, as every where, its favourable influence
on the vernacular language. The bishops of Meissen, to whose diocese
Lusatia belonged, had indeed repeatedly admonished the priests and curates,
to whose care the spiritual welfare of the poor Slavic Lusatians was
intrusted, to learn the language of the people; but no particular
pains was taken; and the Romish clergy, who spoke of the natives with
the utmost contempt, were quite satisfied to hear the people say
Amen and Kyrie Eleison after their own Latin prayers.

As Lusatia lies near to the scene of Luther's earliest influence, the Gospel was preached
early to the Slavic inhabitants by some of his followers; and it had the natural
consequence, that the Romish clergy also began to give some attention
to the vernacular language. In 1550, if not before, a Sorabian translation
of the New Testament, the manuscript and perhaps the autograph of
which is preserved in the library of Berlin, was completed; but it
was never printed; probably because during the melancholy period of
the "Interim" so called, which commenced about that time, the energies
of the Protestants were in some measure paralyzed.

Towards
the end of the century Luther's smaller Catechism, and several other religious
and doctrinal tracts, were translated from the German, mostly by
clergymen, and introduced into the schools; chiefly the village schools;
for the cities were steadily becoming more and more Germanized.

The neglect and decline of the Sorabian population was however always painfully
felt by some patriotic individuals; and the very injudicious and
tyrannic attempts of their German rulers, during the seventeenth century,
to eradicate the language and supplant it by the German, found in
all places only a reluctant and forced submission.

But the effect of appointing every where German magistrates and German
pastors was irresistible.

The language was gradually forgotten by the rising generation; and hardly
a Vendish book was printed during the first three quarters of the seventeenth century.
Indeed hardly any one knew how to write in a language, the orthography and
grammar of which had not yet been subjected to any rules or principles.

In
1679 the Jesuit Jacob Ticinus, a native of Lusatia, in a little Latin
pamphlet, advised his countrymen to adopt the rules of orthography
current in the Bohemian language, so nearly related to their own.[5]
But the Protestants among them, who constituted the principal part
in number and respectability, rejected his advice; and preferred to
adopt the rules established shortly afterwards by a German clergyman,
Z.J. Bierling.[6] This was a system between the Bohemian and the German,
and is still observed.

It was probably a sense of the approaching danger of an ultimate total
extirpation of their language, that roused the slumbering Vendes again
to some efforts.

Parts of the Gospels were published towards the close of the same century
by Michael Frenzel; and in 1706 the whole New Testament appeared
in a Vendish translation, conformed to Luther's German one.

A translation of the whole Bible, made by several Protestant clergymen, was first published in 1729;
and has been twice reprinted. A version for Catholics, by A. Swotlik, is extant in manuscript. A German hymn-book for
the latter already existed in 1696; and in 1710 the Protestants were
likewise supplied with one. In the former the orthography of Ticinus was followed;
while the latter was printed according to the system of Bierling. Thus this
handful of people, surrounded by German adversaries and underminers
of their nationality, and who would have had hard work enough even
if they had stood as one man in their own defence, were split into
parties, even in things the most indifferent; and thus made their
own weakness still weaker.



On the night of the 24th General Scott received a communication, signed by the British, French,
Spanish, and Prussian consuls in Vera Cruz, asking time to permit the neutrals and women and
children to withdraw from the city; to which he replied that up to the 23d the communication
between the neutrals in Vera Cruz and the neutral ships of war lying off Sacrificios was left
open to allow them an exit, and that he had given notice to the consuls. He therefore declined
to grant the request unless it was made by the governor and commander in chief of Vera Cruz,
accompanied with a proposition to surrender. On the 25th, the six heavy guns, the navy battery,
and all the mortars opened fire. General Scott had determined that, if no proposition for surrender
was made by the 26th, he would assault the works.

The command of the city having been turned over by General Morales to General Landero, the
latter, on the 26th, addressed General Scott as follows:

  "I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency the exposition
  which has this moment been made to me by the señores consuls of
  England, France, Spain, and Prussia, in which they solicit that
  hostilities may be suspended while the innocent families in this
  place who are suffering the ravages of war be enabled to leave the
  city, which solicitude claims my support; and considering it in
  accordance with the rights of afflicted humanity, I have not
  hesitated to invite your Excellency to enter into an honorable
  accommodation with the garrison, in which case you will please name
  three commissioners who may meet at some intermediate point to treat
  with those of this place upon the terms of the accommodation. With
  this motive I renew to your Excellency my attentive consideration.

  "God reward your Excellency, etc., etc., etc. (on account of the
  sickness of the commanding general).

                                              "JOSÉ JUAN DE LANDERO."

General Scott notified General Landero that he had appointed Brevet Major-General Worth, of
the regular army, Major-General Pillow, of the volunteers, and Colonel Totten, chief of the
engineer corps of the army, commissioners on his part to meet a like number to be appointed
by General Landero. The latter announced the appointment on his part of Colonels Herrera, Gutierrez
de Villa Nueva, and Lieutenant-Colonel Robles. The commissioners met at the Punta de Hornos,
and on the 27th agreed upon terms.

The terms of capitulation were in substance that the Mexican troops should march out of the
city with the honors of war, should stack their arms and be paroled; that their colors, when
lowered, should be saluted. Absolute protection was guaranteed to persons and property in the
city. No private building was to be taken or used by the United States forces without previous
arrangement and fair compensation. A Mexican historian says: "The sacrifice was consummated,
but the soldiers of Vera Cruz received the honor due to their valor and misfortunes--the respect
of the conqueror. Not even a look was given them by the enemy's soldiers which could be interpreted
into an insult." Five thousand prisoners and four hundred guns were captured, and with a loss
of only sixty-seven killed and wounded.

There is scarcely anything in history equal to this achievement of General Scott. Throughout
the siege he shared all the dangers and hardships of his troops. He examined in person, aided
by his very able staff officers, every detail of works of defense, and gave orders for the
firing of the batteries.

One day during the siege General Scott was walking the trenches where a heavy fire of the enemy
was directed. Seeing some of the soldiers standing up, General Scott ordered them not to expose
themselves. "But, General," said one, "you are exposing yourself." "Oh!" said he, "generals
nowadays can be made out of anybody, but men can not be had." The point of this reply is easy
to understand. General Worth was appointed commandant and governor of Vera Cruz, with instructions
to establish and enforce police regulations, but not to interfere with the functions of the
civil magistrates in affairs between Mexicans.

He was authorized and instructed, after conferring with Commodore Perry, to establish a tariff
of duties on articles imported, to be applied to the necessities of the sick and wounded of
the army and navy and indigent inhabitants of the city of Vera Cruz; this to continue in force
until instructions were received from Washington. CORNET SOLO--

Mr. J. LEVY.

6.

ORATION--

Hon. ABRAM S. HEWITT.

7.

ORATION--

Rev. RICHARD S. STORRS, D.D.

8.

MUSIC--

7th REGIMENT
BAND.

Hon. JAMES S.T. STRANAHAN will preside.

INTRODUCTORY.

The New York and Brooklyn Bridge was formally opened on Thursday,
May 24th, 1883, with befitting pomp and ceremonial, in the presence
of the largest multitude that ever gathered in the two cities.

From the announcement by the Trustees of the date which was to mark the turning-over
of the work to the public, it was evident that the popular demonstration
would be upon a scale commensurate with the magnificence of the structure
and its importance to the people of the United States. The evidences
of widespread and profound interest in the event were early and unmistakable.

They were not confined to the metropolis and its sister city on the Long Island shore, nor yet to the majestic
Empire State. The occurrence was recognized as one of National importance; and throughout the Union,
from the rocky headlands of Maine to the golden shores of the Pacific,
and from the gleaming waters of the St. Lawrence to the vast expanse
of the Mexican Gulf, the opening ceremonies were regarded with intelligent
concern and approval.

Nearly every State contributed its representatives to the swelling throng
that attended, while those who were unable to be present contemplated
with pride and satisfaction the completion and consecration to its
purpose of the greatest engineering work of modern times.

In the communities most directly benefited by the Bridge the demonstration was
confined to no class or body of the populace. It was a holiday for high
and low, rich and poor; it was, in fact, the People's Day. More delightful
weather never dawned upon a festal morning. The heavens were radiant
with the celestial blue of approaching summer; silvery fragments of
cloud sailed gracefully across the firmament like winged messengers,
bearing greetings of work well done; the clearest of spring sunshine
tinged everything with a touch of gold, and a brisk, bracing breeze
blown up from the Atlantic cooled the atmosphere to a healthful and
invigorating temperature.

The incoming dawn revealed the twin cities gorgeous in gala attire. From
towering steeple and lofty façade, from the fronts of business houses
and the cornices and walls of private dwellings, from the forests
of shipping along the wharves and the vessels in the dimpled bay,
floated bunting fashioned in every conceivable design, while high
above all, from the massive and enduring granite towers of the Bridge
the Stars and Stripes signaled to the world from the gateway of the
continent the arrival of the auspicious day.

Almost before the sun was up the thoroughfares of both cities put on a festival appearance. Business
was generally suspended. The mercantile and professional communities vied with one another
in the extent and splendor of their decorations, while from the hearty
voice of Labor arose a chorus of ringing acclamation.

Tens of thousands of men, women and children crowded into the streets,
and, after gazing admiringly upon the decorations, wended their way in the
direction of the mighty river span.

From neighboring cities and from the adjacent country for many miles
around the incoming trains brought multitudes of excursionists and
sight-seers.

It seemed marvelous that they could all find accommodation, but the generous hospitality of the cities
was cordially extended, and all were adequately provided for.

The scenes presented during the day upon the streets and avenues of New
York and Brooklyn will never be forgotten by those who witnessed them.
Notwithstanding the enormous massing of people, the best of order
was everywhere observable, and the day happily was free from any
accident of a serious nature.

The arrangements for the celebration were of a sensible and becoming
character, and beside insuring an unobstructed and speedy course
for the ceremonies, contributed beyond measure to the popular enjoyment.

Early

in the afternoon the President of the United States, Gen. Chester
A. Arthur, and the Hon. Grover Cleveland, Governor of the State of
New York, the former accompanied by the members of his Cabinet and
the latter by the officers of his Staff, were escorted from the Fifth
Avenue Hotel to the New York City Hall, where they were joined by
his Honor Mayor Franklin Edson and the New York officials.

                     From the City Hall the procession proceeded to the New York Approach
to the Bridge. The Seventh Regiment, N.G., S.N.Y., Col. Emmons Clark, commanding,
acted as escort to the Presidential and Gubernatorial party. The regimental
band, of 75 pieces, headed the column and played popular airs as
the procession moved along the crowded and gaily decorated thoroughfares.
At the New York Tower a battalion of the Fifth United States Artillery,
under command of Major Jackson, joined the escort, and between the
lines of brilliantly uniformed troops the distinguished guests passed
upon the roadway.

                                      

They were formally received by a Committee of the Bridge Trustees, headed
by Mr. William C. Kingsley, Vice-President and acting President of
the Board.

  

  
  The arrival at the New York Tower was proclaimed to the multitudes on shore
  by the thundering of many cannon.

Salutes
  were fired from the forts in the harbor, from the United
  
  
  States Navy Yard, and from
  
  the summit
  
  of Fort Greene. The United States fleet, consisting of the "Tennessee," the
  "Yantic," the "Kearsarge," the "Vandalia," and the "Minnesota,"
  
  Rear-Admiral George H. Cooper, commanding, was anchored
  
  in the river below the Bridge and joined in the salute. As the procession
  moved across the roadway
  
  the yards of the men-of-war were manned, and from the docks and factories arose
  a tremendous babel of sounds, caused by the clanging of bells, the roaring
  of steam whistles, and
  
  
  the cheers of enthusiastic people, while sounding from afar, in delightful
  contrast with the clamorous discord, the silver chimes of Trinity rang out
  upon the river.
  
  In the ornate iron railway
  
  depot at the Brooklyn terminus, where the exercises were to take place, the arrival
  of the approaching procession was anxiously awaited. The interior was bright
  with tasteful decorations, the prevailing feature being the sky-blue hangings
  of satin bordered with silver, and the coats-of-arms of the States appropriately interspersed
  amid a forest of flags. On the Brooklyn side the duties of escort
  were transferred to the 23d Regiment, N.G., S.N.Y., Colonel Rodney
  
  C. Ward commanding. The regiment appeared upon this occasion for the
  first time in their new State service uniform, and performed their duties most
efficiently. The arrangements for the procession and exercises were under
the direction of Major-General James Jourdan, commanding the Second Division,
N.G., S.N.Y., who was ably assisted by the members of the Division Staff.
The building was thronged in every part.

  
  
  In the throng were many of the most conspicuous citizens of New York and other
  States, including representatives of the bench, the bar, the pulpit, the press,
  and all other professions. Beside the President and his Cabinet, consisting of the
  Hon. Charles J. Folger, Secretary of the Treasury; the Hon. William
  E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy; the Hon. Henry M. Teller, Secretary
  of the Interior; the Hon. Walter Q. Gresham, Postmaster-General, and the Hon.
Benjamin Harris Brewster, Attorney-General; and Governor Cleveland and Staff, there
were present the Governors of several States and the Mayors of nearly
all the cities in the vicinity of the metropolis.

  
  
  

In the vast assemblage none were more conspicuous than the officers of the Army
and Navy, who occupied an entire section and attracted general attention.

When
the Presidential party and their escort entered the hall they were
greeted with enthusiastic cheers. They occupied seats directly opposite
the stand erected for the orators of the day. The exercises proceeded
without delay in an orderly manner, and were appropriate and impressive
throughout.

  Music was furnished during the ceremonies by the bands of the Seventh
and Twenty-third regiments. The Hon. James S.T. Stranahan presided with
the skill and dignity gained during his long experience in public
life.

                          

Near him were the speakers, Mr. William C. Kingsley, Rev. Richard S. Storrs, D.D.,
the Hon. Abram S. Hewitt, Mayor Franklin Edson, of New York, and
Mayor Seth Low, of Brooklyn, together with the members of the Board
of Bridge Trustees.

Mr. Stranahan opened the ceremonies by introducing Bishop Littlejohn, who
wore the Episcopal robes.

The Bishop fervently and impressively made the opening prayer, the great assemblage bowing their heads reverentially
during its delivery. Vice-President Kingsley was next introduced, and was received
with hearty applause. Mr. Kingsley, in clear and distinct tones, and in comprehensive
and business-like terms, proceeded to make the formal speech presenting
the Bridge to the cities of New York and Brooklyn.

              

The address was heard with careful attention, and upon its conclusion a round
of enthusiastic applause swept through the building. His Honor Mayor
Low followed Mr. Kingsley with a concise and appropriate speech,
receiving the structure on behalf of the City of Brooklyn.

                        

  His address elicited several demonstrations of approval from the audience.
  The Hon. Franklin Edson, Mayor of New York, who was the next speaker, was
  heartily applauded as he aptly
  
  accepted the Bridge in behalf of the authorities of the great metropolis. When
  Mr. Hewitt was introduced as the orator on the part of New York City,
  
  he was warmly cheered. His eloquent address riveted the attention of his hearers
  from beginning to end, and his pointed and conclusive vindication of
  
  the bridge management from the outset aroused the enthusiasm of his hearers
to the utmost pitch. Following Mr. Hewitt came the Rev. Richard S.
Storrs, D.D., who delivered the oration on behalf of Brooklyn.

  

Never did
  the distinguished preacher appear to better advantage, and his oration, which was
  punctuated with applause, was characterized as a
  
  
  
  masterpiece by all who heard it. Upon the conclusion of his address the presiding
  officer declared the exercises at an end, and the company in the building
  dispersed.
  
  The festivities, however, did not end with the conclusion of the formal ceremonies. The
  celebration was continued
  
  in both cities throughout the day and far into the night. Thousands
  
  upon thousands of enthusiastic people crowded the streets. After the ceremonies,
  the President, the Governor, the speakers of the day, and the Trustees were driven
  to the residence of Col. Washington A. Roebling, on Columbia Heights,
  
  where a reception was held. As they passed through the streets the people cheered
  as people only can who cheer in the atmosphere of a free government. From
  Col. Roebling's house
  
  the company proceeded to the residence of Mayor Low, where they were entertained
  at a banquet. In the evening, under the auspices of the Municipal authorities,
  a grand reception to President
  
  Arthur and Governor Cleveland was given by the citizens of Brooklyn at
  the Academy of Music, and was attended by a great multitude. Another
  striking feature of the celebration at night was the display of fireworks on
  the Bridge given under the direction
  
  of the Board of Trustees. The pyrotechnic exhibition was viewed by almost the entire populace
  of the two cities, and a vast concourse of visitors from abroad. The East River was
  fairly blocked with craft of every description bearing legions of
  delighted spectators, and the streets and
  
  housetops were packed with people. The display was generally characterized
  as one of the grandest ever witnessed in America. The people of
  both cities evinced their public spirit in the decorations by day and the
  illuminations by night. The illuminations in Brooklyn, particularly,
  were on a magnificent scale, and excited the
  
  admiration of multitudes of visitors to the
  
  city. In addition to the special features of the celebration there were
many entertainments in honor of the event, including concerts in
the various city parks.
  

Throughout the
  afternoon and evening
  
  
  the best of order was preserved; the casualties that occurred were few and unimportant,
  and the auspicious day ended without the intrusion of anything that
would carry with it other than pleasant memories of the significant
event which it commemorated.
  

  
  ORDER OF RELIGIOUS SERVICES,

CONDUCTED
  
  BY RT. Deut. vii.: 9.
  
  
  
  Remember the marvelous works that He hath done: His wonders, and the judgments
  of his mouth. Psalm cv.: 5.

Marvelous things did He in the sight of our forefathers, in the land
of Egypt, even in the field of Zoan.

  
  
  He divided the
  
  sea,
  
  
and let them go through: He made the waters to stand on an heap.

In the day time also He led them with a cloud, and all the night through
with a light of fire. Psalm lxxviii.: 13, 14, 15. Psalm cvii.: 21.

The Lord hath been mindful of us, and He shall bless us; He shall
bless them that fear the Lord, both small and great.

Psalm cxv.: 12, 13.

  
  
  
  Praise ye the Lord:

The Lord's name be praised.

  
  

* * * * *

PRAYER.

Almighty God, who hast in all ages showed forth Thy power and mercy
in the preservation and advancement of the race redeemed by the precious
blood of Thy dear Son: we yield Thee our unfeigned thanks and praise
as for all Thy public mercies, so especially for the signal manifestation
of Thy Providence which we commemorate this day.

All things--wealth, industry, energy, skill, genius--come of Thee;
and when we consecrate their triumphs unto Thee, we give Thee but
Thine own.

  
  
  Enable us to see in the strength and grandeur
  
  
  of this structure the evident
  
  tokens of
  
  
  Thy power,
  
  bringing mighty things to pass through the weakness of Thy creatures.
  Give us grace and wisdom to discern in all this work the nobler uses
  it was ordained by Thee to subserve. Teach us to know that all this
mighty fabric is but vanity, save as it shall promote Thy sovereign purpose
toward the sons of men.

  
O Lord God, clothed with majesty and honor, decking Thyself with light
as with a garment, and spreading out the heavens like a curtain, with the
beams of Thy chambers in the waters, and the clouds for Thy chariot,
walking upon the wings of the wind, Thy messengers spirits and Thy ministers
a flaming fire, accept, we beseech Thee, this last and chiefest fruit
of human toil and genius as a tribute to Thy glory, and a new power
making for righteousness and peace amid all conflicts of earthly interests,
and all the stir and pomp of worldly aggrandizement.

  Our life
  
  is a thing of nought, and our
  
  purposes vanish
  
  away; but Thy years shall
  
  not fail, and with Thee the beginning and the end are the same. Therefore we implore
Thee to bless and direct this work, that it shall be more than a highway
for the things that perish, even a path of Thy eternal Spirit lifting
by His own infinite grace, more and more, as the years roll on, the people
of these cities toward the plane of Thine own life--the life of endless
peace, of absolute unity, and perfect love, through Jesus Christ, the one Redeemer
and Mediator between God and man. Amen.

ADDRESS OF WM. C. KINGSLEY,

  
  
  PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
  
  In the presence of this great assemblage, and of the chosen representatives
of the people of these two great cities, of the Governor of the State
of New York and of the President of the United States, the pleasing
duty devolves upon me, as the official agent of the Board of Trustees
of the New York and Brooklyn Bridge, to announce formally to the chief
magistrates of these two municipalities that this Bridge is now ready
to be opened for public use, and is subject in its control and management
only to such restrictions as the people, to whom it belongs, may choose
to impose upon themselves.
  

If I were at liberty to consult my own wishes I should not attempt
to occupy your attention any further. I am not here as the spokesman of
my associates in the Board of Bridge Trustees. They are well content
to let this great structure speak for them, and to speak more fittingly and
more eloquently yet for the skillful, faithful and daring men who have
given so many years of their lives--and in several instances even their
lives--to the end that the natural barrier to the union, growth and
greatness of this great commercial centre should be removed, and that
a vast scientific conception should be matched in the skill, and courage,
and endurance upon which it depended for its realization.

  
  With one name, in an especial sense, this Bridge will always be associated--that
of Roebling.

                                                      At the outset of this enterprise we were so fortunate as to be able
to secure the services of the late John A. Roebling, who had built the
chief suspension bridges in this country, and who had just then completed
the largest suspension bridge ever constructed up to that time. His
name and achievements were of invaluable service to this enterprise
in its infancy. They secured for it a confidence not otherwise obtainable.
He entered promptly and with more than professional zeal into the work
of erecting a bridge over the East River. As is universally known,
while testing and perfecting his surveys his foot was crushed between
the planks of one of our piers; lockjaw supervened, and the man who
designed this Bridge lost his life in its service.

  
  
  The main designs were, however, completed by the elder Roebling before he met
  his sad and untimely death.
  
  He was succeeded at once by his son, Colonel Washington A. Roebling, who
had for years before shared in his father's professional confidences
and labors. Here the son did not succeed the father by inheritance merely.
The elder Roebling, according to his own statements, would not have
undertaken the conduct of this work at his age--and he was independent
of mere professional gain--if it were not for the fact, as he frequently
stated, that he had a son who was entirely capable of building this Bridge.
Indeed, the elder Roebling advised that the son, who was destined to
carry on and complete the work, should be placed in chief authority
at the beginning.

                                                                 

  
  
  
  

                  The turning point--as determining the feasibility of this enterprise--was reached
down in the earth, and under the bed of the East River.

During the anxious days and nights while work was going on within the
caissons, Colonel Roebling seemed to be always on hand, at the head
of his men, to direct their efforts, and to guard against a mishap
or a mistake which, at this stage of the work, might have proved to
be disastrous.

  
  
  The foundations of the towers were successfully laid, and the problem of the
  feasibility of the Bridge was solved. Colonel Roebling contracted the mysterious
  disease
  
  in the caissons which had proved fatal to several of the workmen in our
  employ. For many long and weary years this man, who entered our service
  young and full of life, and hope, and daring, has been an invalid and
  confined to his home. He has never seen this structure as it now stands, save
  from a distance. But the disease,
  
  
  
  
  which has shattered his nervous system for the time, seemed not to have enfeebled
  his mind. It appeared
  
  even to
  
  
  quicken his intellect. His physical infirmities shut him out, so to speak, from
  the world, and left him dependent largely on the society of his family,
but it gave him for a companion day and night this darling child of
his genius--every step of whose progress he has directed and watched
over with paternal solicitude.

Colonel
  Roebling may never walk across this Bridge, as so many of
  
  
  his fellow-men have done to-day, but while this structure stands he
  will make all who use it his debtor. His infirmities are still such that
  he who would be the centre of interest on this occasion, and even in this greatly
  distinguished company, is conspicuous by his absence. This enterprise
  
  was only less fortunate in securing an executive head than in obtaining
  scientific direction. For sixteen years together the late Hon. Henry C. Murphy stood
  for this work wherever it challenged the enmity of an opponent or needed an advocate,
  a supporter and a friend. He devised
  
  the legislation under which it was commenced. He staked in its inception a
  large portion of his private fortune on its success. He upheld its feasibility
  and utility before committees, and legislatures, and law courts,
  and in every forum of public discussion. For years he looked forward to this
  day to fittingly close the activities of a long, useful and, in many
  respects, an illustrious career. It was not permitted him to see it, but he saw
  very near the end, and he lived long enough to realize, what is now admitted,
that he was to the end of his days engaged in a work from which the name
of the city he loved so well will never be disassociated, for it is
a work the history of which will for all time be embraced in the records
of the achievements of American enterprise and of American genius.

I am sure I speak for the Board of Trustees in returning
their thanks to all the professional gentlemen who have been in our employ--and
especially to Messrs. Martin, Paine, Farrington, McNulty and Probasco. For
the most part these men have been engaged on the Bridge from its commencement
to its completion. It has always seemed to the Trustees as if the highest
and the humblest workmen engaged on this work were alike influenced
by the spirit of enterprise in which the Bridge had its origin. Men whose
daily compensation was not more than sufficient to provide them and their
families with their daily bread were at all times ready to take their
lives in their hands in the performance of the imperative and perilous
duties assigned them. In the direct prosecution of the work twenty
men lost their lives.

Peace hath its victories,
and it has its victims and its martyrs, too. Of the seven consulting engineers
to whom the matured plans of the elder Roebling were submitted--all
men of the highest eminence in their profession--three have passed away,
and four are living to witness, in the assured success of this structure, the
one ratification of their judgment which cannot be questioned.

It remains for me to say,
in conclusion, that the two cities rose at all times to the level of
the spirit of our time and country. Their citizens staked millions on what
seemed to many to be an experiment--a structure, it was often said, that at its
best would not be of any actual use. How solid it is; how far removed
it is from all sense of apprehension; how severely practical it is
in all its relations, and how great a factor in the corporate lives
of these cities it is destined to be, we all now realize. This Bridge has cost
many millions of dollars, and it has taken many years to build it.
May I say on this occasion that the people whom you represent (turning
to where the Mayors of the two cities stood together) would not part
with the Bridge to-day for even twice or thrice its cost?

And may I remind those who, not unnaturally, perhaps, have been disappointed
and irritated by delays in the past, that those who enter a race with
Time for a competitor have an antagonist that makes no mistakes,
is subject to no interference and liable to no accident.

ADDRESS OF HON. SETH LOW,

MAYOR OF THE CITY OF BROOKLYN.

GENTLEMEN OF THE TRUSTEES--With profound satisfaction, on behalf of the City
of Brooklyn, I accept the completed Bridge. Fourteen times the earth has made
its great march through the heavens since the work began.
 Besides those already named, Lieutenant
  Brooks, Third Infantry, Lieutenant Macdonald, Second Dragoons,
  Lieutenant Vandorn, Seventh Infantry (all acting staff officers),
  Captain Magruder, First Artillery, and Lieutenant Gardner, Seventh
  Infantry, seem to have won special praise. Colonel Riley's brigade
  and Talcott's rocket and howitzer battery were engaged in and about
  the heights and bore an active part. The brigade so gallantly led by
  General Shields, and after his fall by Colonel Baker, deserves high
  commendation for its fine behavior and success. Colonels Foreman,
  Burnett, and Major Harris commanded the regiments. Lieutenant
  Hammond, Third Artillery, and Lieutenant Davis, Illinois volunteers,
  constituted the brigade staff. These operations, hid from my view by
  intervening hills, were not fully known when my first report was
  hastily written. Brigadier-General Twiggs, who was in immediate
  command of all advanced forces, has earned high credit by his
  judgment, skill, and energy. The conduct of Colonels Campbell,
  Haskell, and Wynkoop, commanding the regiments of Pillow's brigade,
  is reported in terms of strong approbation by Major-General
  Patterson. I recommend for a commission Quartermaster-Sergeant
  Henry, of the Seventh Infantry (already known to the army for
  intrepidity on former occasions), who hauled down the national
  standard of the Mexican fort. In expressing my indebtedness for able
  assistance--to Lieutenant-Colonel Hitchcock, acting inspector
  general; to Majors Smith and Turnbull, and respective chiefs of
  engineers and topographical engineers; to their assistant
  lieutenants, Lieutenants Mason, Beauregard, Stevens, Tower, G.W.
  Smith, McClellan, engineers, and Lieutenants Derby and Hardcastle,
  topographical engineers; to Captain Allen, chief quartermaster, and
  Lieutenant Blair, chief commissary, and to Lieutenants Hagner and
  Laidley, ordnance, all actively employed--I am compelled to make
  special mention of the services of Captain R.E. Lee, engineers. Nor was he less
  conspicuous in planting batteries and in conducting columns to their
  stations under the heavy fire of the enemy. My personal
  staff--Lieutenants Scott, Williams, and Lay, and Major Van Buren,
  who volunteered for the occasion--gave me zealous and efficient
  assistance. Our whole force present in action and in reserve was
  eight thousand five hundred. The enemy is estimated at twelve
  thousand or more. About three thousand prisoners, four or five
  thousand stands of arms, and forty-three pieces of artillery are
  taken. By the accompanying return I regret to find our loss more
  severe than at first supposed, amounting in the two days to
  thirty-three officers and three hundred and ninety-eight men--in
  all, four hundred and thirty-one, of whom sixty-three were killed.
  The enemy's loss is computed to be from one thousand to one thousand
  two hundred. I am happy in communicating strong hopes of the
  recovery of the gallant General Shields, who is so much improved as
  to have been brought to this place.

  "Appended to this report are the following papers:

  "(A) General return by name of killed and wounded.

  "(B) Copies of report of Lieutenant-Colonel Hitchcock, acting
  inspector general (of prisoners taken), and accompanying papers.

  "(C) Report of Brigadier-General Twiggs, and subreports.

  "(D) Report of Major-General Patterson and report of brigade
  commanders.

  "(E) Copy of report of Brigadier-General Worth announcing the
  occupation by his division of the castle and town of Perote without
  opposition, with an inventory of ordnance there found.

A Mexican historian gives the following account of the close of the battle: "General Santa
Anna, accompanied by some of his adjutants, was passing along the road to the left of the battery,
when the enemy's column, now out of the woods, appeared on his line of retreat and fired upon
him, forcing him back. The carriage in which he had left Jalapa was riddled with shot, the
mules killed and taken by the enemy, as well as a wagon containing sixteen thousand dollars
received the day before for the pay of the soldiers. Every tie of command and obedience now
being broken among our troops, safety alone being the object, and all being involved in a frightful
whirl, they rushed desperately to the narrow pass of the defile that descended to the Plan
del Rio, where the general in chief had preceded, with the chiefs and officers accompanying
him. Horrid indeed was the descent by that narrow and rocky path, where thousands rushed, disputing
the passage, with desperation, and leaving a track of blood upon the road. All classes being
confounded, military distinction and respect were lost; and badges of rank became marks of
sarcasm that were only meted out according to their grade and humiliation. The enemy, now masters
of our camp, turned their guns upon the fugitives, thus augmenting the terror of the multitude
that crowded through the defile and pressed forward every instant by a new impulse, which increased
the confusion and disgrace of the ill-fated day."

General Scott reports the strength of his army at Cerro Gordo at eight thousand five hundred,
the killed and wounded four hundred and thirty-one, of which thirty-three were officers and
three hundred and ninety-eight enlisted men. His estimate of the Mexican force was twelve thousand.
The prisoners captured were about three thousand, and the killed and wounded between one thousand
and twelve hundred. Forty-three cannon and three thousand five hundred small arms were captured.
On the morning of the 22d the army moved to and occupied the town and castle of Perote without
resistance.

General Santa Anna now retired to Orizaba, where he was met by many distinguished citizens.
He addressed a letter to the ad interim President, General Arroya, as follows:

                                           "ORIZABA, April 22, 1847.

  "MY ESTEEMED FRIEND: The dispatch which I have forwarded to
  the Minister of War will already have informed you of the events
  which occurred on the 18th inst. The enemy made an extraordinary
  effort to force the pass, and, exasperated by the repulse he had
  experienced the day before, and because he knew his ruin was
  inevitable unless he succeeded, attacked me with his entire army,
  which was not less than twelve thousand men. Massachusetts has achieved
  much in this respect; but when she shall have made high schools as free
  and universal as common schools, and the attendance on both compulsory,
  so as to qualify every voter for governing a State or nation, she will
  have made a still grander step in material and intellectual progress,
  and the results would be still more astounding.

By
  
  Table 35 of the Census, p. 195, the
  
  whole value of all the property, real and personal, of Massachusetts, in
  1860, was
  
  $815,237,433, and that of Maryland, $376,919,944. We have seen that the value of
  the products that year in Massachusetts was
  
  $287,000,000 (exclusive of commerce), and of Maryland, $66,000,000. As
a question, then, of profit on capital, that of Massachusetts was
35 per cent., and of Maryland 17 per cent. Such is the progressive advance
(more than two to one) of free as compared with slave labor.

The same law obtains in comparing all the Free with all the Slave States.
But the proof is still more complete.

Thus, Delaware and Missouri (alone of all the Slave States) were ahead
of Maryland in this rate of profit, because both had comparatively
fewer slaves; and all the other Slave States, whose servile population
was relatively larger than that of Maryland, were below her in the
rate of profit.

The law extends to counties, those having comparatively fewest slaves increasing
far more rapidly in wealth and population. This, then, is the formula
as to the rate of profit on capital.

First, the Free States; next, the States and counties of the same State having the fewest relative
number of slaves.

The Census, then, is an evangel against slavery, and its tables are
revelations proclaiming laws as divine as those written by the finger
of God at Mount Sinai on the tables of stone.

For seventy years we have had these Census Tables, announcing these great truths more and more clearly
at each decade.

They are the records of the nation's movement and condition, the decennial
monuments marking her steps in the path of empire, the oracles of her
destiny.

They are prophecies, for each decade fulfils the predictions of its
predecessor.

They announce laws,
not made by man, but the irrevocable ordinances of the Almighty. We cannot, with impunity, refuse to
obey these laws. For every violation, they enforce their own penalties.

From these there is no escape in the present or the past, nor for the future, except in conformity to their demands.
These laws condemn slavery; and the punishment for disobedience is recorded in the result of every Census,
and finally culminated in the rebellion. Slavery and freedom are antagonistic and discordant
elements: the conflict between them is upon us; it admits of no neutrality
or compromise, and one or the other system must perish.

We have seen that slavery is hostile to the progress of wealth and
population: let us now ascertain its influence on moral and intellectual
development.

By Table 15 of the Census of 1860, the result for that year was as
follows: In Massachusetts, value of books printed, $397,500; jobs,
$529,347; newspapers, $1,979,069; total, $2,905,916.

Same year
in Maryland, books printed, $58,000; jobs, $122,000; newspapers,
$169,000; total, $350,155.

By Table 37, Census of 1860, Massachusetts had 222 newspapers and periodicals,
of which 112 were political, 31 religious, 51 literary, miscellaneous
28.

Maryland had only 57, all political.

The whole number of copies issued in Massachusetts in 1860 was 102,000,760,
and in Maryland, 20,721,472.

Of periodicals, Massachusetts has monthly, 1 political, 10 religious, 18 literary, 7 miscellaneous; quarterly,
religious 3, literary 2, miscellaneous 1, and 1 annual.

Maryland had none. Not a religious, literary, scientific, or miscellaneous
periodical or journal in the State!

What terrible truths are unfolded in these statistics! None but a political party press in Maryland,
all devoted, in 1860, to the maintenance, extension, and perpetuity
of slavery, which had 57 advocates, and not one for science, religion,
or literature.

We have seen that the circulation in 1860 of the press in Massachusetts exceeded
that of Maryland by more than eighty-one millions of copies.

These
facts all prove that slavery is hostile to knowledge and its diffusion,
to science, literature, and religion, to the press, and to free government.

For

schools, colleges, libraries, and churches, I must take the Tables of the Census
of 1850, those of 1860 not being yet published.

There were in 1850 in Massachusetts, 3,679 public schools, 4,443 teachers, 176,475
pupils; native adults who cannot read or write, 1,861. In Maryland,
907 public schools, 1,005 teachers, 33,254 pupils; native adults
who cannot read or write, 38,426, excluding slaves, to teach whom
is criminal.

Thus, then, slavery is hostile to schools, withholding instruction
from the children of the poor.

The number of public libraries in Massachusetts was 1,462, volumes 684,015.
In Maryland, 124, and 125,042 volumes. Value of churches in Massachusetts,
$10,206,000.

In
Maryland, $3,947,884, of which $2,541,240 is in Baltimore (which
has very few slaves), and the remainder is mainly in the seven counties
(from which slavery has nearly disappeared) adjoining Pennsylvania.

As
to schools, colleges, books, libraries, churches, newspapers, and periodicals,
it thus appears that Massachusetts is greatly in advance of Maryland.

Now, then, let us contrast loyal Maryland with rebel South Carolina, the author
of secession, and assuming for many years to instruct the nation. By
the Census of 1860, she had a population of 703,708, of whom 402,406
were slaves; and Maryland, numbering 687,049, had 87,189 slaves.

Now, by the Census of 1860, South Carolina had 45 journals and periodicals, and her annual circulation was 3,654,840
copies. The circulation therefore of Massachusetts exceeded that of South
Carolina more than ninety-eight millions of copies, while Maryland exceeded
South Carolina more than seventeen millions of copies.

So much for South Carolina as a great political teacher. As to schools in 1850: South Carolina had 724 public
schools, 739 teachers, 17,838 pupils. Massachusetts, then, had 158,637 more pupils at public schools
than South Carolina, and Maryland 15,416 more pupils at public schools
than South Carolina.

The press of Massachusetts, we have seen, circulated in 1860 upward of one hundred and two millions of copies, equal
to 279,454 per day, including journals and periodicals, each read, on an average, by at least two persons.
This is independent of books and pamphlets, and of the very large
circulation of papers from other States and from Europe.

What a flood of light is thus shed daily and hourly upon the people of Massachusetts!
This intellectual effulgence radiates by day and night. It is the sun
in its meridian splendor, and the stars in an ever-unclouded firmament.
It has a centre and a circumference, but no darkness. Ignorance vanishes
before it; wealth follows in its train; labor rejoices in its association,
and finds its products more than doubled; freedom hails its presence,
and religion gives it a cordial welcome; churches, schools, academies,
colleges, and universities acknowledge its mighty influence.

Science penetrates the secrets of nature, and unfolds each new discovery
for the benefit of man.

Coal, the offspring of the sun, develops its latent energy, and water contributes its
untiring hydraulic power. Machinery takes more and more the place of nerves
and muscles, cheapens clothing and subsistence and all the necessaries
of life, and opens new fields of industry, and more profitable employment
for labor.

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Steam and lightning become
  
  
  the slaves of man.
  
  
  He performs the
  
  journey of a day in an hour,
  
  and converses in minutes around the globe. The strength of man may
  not have been much increased, but his power is augmented a thousand fold.

His
  
  life may not have been materially lengthened, but, in the march of knowledge, a year
  now is as a century, compared with man's progress in the darkness of the
  middle ages. The eternal
  
  
  
  advance toward omniscience goes on, but is like that of the infinite
  
  approach of the asymptote, which never reaches the hyperbolic curve. The onward
  of science is in a geometrical ratio, so that in time, the intellectual progress of a day
  in the future, must exceed that of a century in the past. Knowledge is enthroned as king,
  and grand truths
  
  and new ideas
  
  are his ministers. Science takes the diameter of the earth's orbit as a
  base line and unit of measurement, and with it spans immensity, and triangulates
  the nebulous systems amid the shadowy verges of receding space. Its researches
  are cosmical upon
  
  the earth and the heavens, and all the elements minister to
  its progress. Sink to the lowest mine, or fathom the ocean's depth, or
  climb the loftiest mountains, or career through the heavens on silken wings,
  and it is there also.

On--on--on; nearer--nearer--still nearer it moves forever and forever, with
accelerated speed, toward the infinite eternal.

Such are
  the triumphs of knowledge; and he who diffuses it among our race, or
  discovers and disseminates new truths, advances man nearer to his Creator; he
  exalts the whole race; he elevates it in the scale of being,
  
  and raises it into higher and still higher spheres.

  
  
  It is science that marks the speed of sound and light and lightning,
  
  calculates the eclipses, catalogues the stars, maps the heavens,
and follows, for centuries of the past and the future, the comet's
course.

It explores
  the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. With geology, it notes the earthquake
  upheaval of mountains, and, with mineralogy, the laws of crystallization. With
  chemistry, it analyzes, decomposes, and compounds the elements. If,
  
  like Canute, it cannot arrest the tidal wave, it is subjecting
  it to laws and formulas. Taking the sunbeam for its pencil, it heliographs
  man's own image, and
  
  the scenery of the earth and the heavens. Has science any limits
  
  or horizon? Can it ever penetrate the soul of man, and reveal the mystery
of his existence and destiny? It is certainly exploring the facts
of sociology, arranging and generalizing them, and deducing laws.

Man, elevated by knowledge in the scale of being, controls the forces
of nature with greater power and grander results, and accumulates
wealth more rapidly.

The educated free
  labor of Massachusetts, we have seen, doubles the products of toil,
per capita, as compared with Maryland, and quadruples them (as the
Census shows) compared with South Carolina.

One day's labor of a man in Massachusetts is more than equal to two
in Maryland, and four in South Carolina.

  So, if we take our savage tribes, with their huts and tents, their rude agriculture,
their furs, their few and simple household manufactures, their hunting
and fishing, the average product of their annual labor, at four cents a day each,
would be $14.60 a year, or more than a fourth of that of South Carolina
(56.91).

So that Massachusetts, in material progress, is farther in advance of South
Carolina than that State is of the savage Indians. Thus we have the
successive steps and gradations of man: Massachusetts, with free labor and
free schools, having reached the highest point of civilization: South
Carolina, with slavery and ignorance (except the few), in a semi-barbarous stage;
and the lowest savage condition, called barbarous, but nearer to South Carolina
than that State to Massachusetts.

Slavery, then, the Census proves, is hostile to the progress of wealth
and population, to science, literature, and education, to schools, colleges,
and universities, to books and libraries, to churches and religion,
to the press, and therefore to free government; hostile to the poor,
keeping them in want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing it to
servitude, and decreasing two thirds the value of its products; hostile
to morals, repudiating among slaves the marital and parental condition,
classifying them by law as chattels, darkening the immortal soul,
and making it a crime to teach millions of human beings to read or
write.

And shall labor and education, literature and science, religion and the
press, sustain an institution which is their deadly foe?

The discussion will be continued in my next letter.

R. J. WALKER.

PALMER, THE AMERICAN SCULPTOR.

Sculpture as an art is probably anterior to painting.

Form being a simpler quality than color, the means of imitation were found in
a conformity of shape rather than hue. The origin of sculpture is somewhat obscured
in the thickening mists of antiquity, but it was no doubt one of the earliest symbols
of ideas made use of by man. In fact, in its primitive development, there
is considerable evidence to show that it was the first essay at a recorded
language. The Egyptian hieroglyphics, those mysterious etchings upon the rock,
representing animals, men, and nondescript characters, were unquestionably
rude attempts to hand down to posterity some account of the great
events of those forgotten ages.

The next remove in the history of this art is its employment in the
production of the images of idolatrous worship; and, when confined to this
purpose, it never attained any appreciable excellence. The purely heathen
mind was incapable of conceiving those forms of ideal beauty which
are born of the contemplation of a divine and spiritual beauty revealed
in the word of God and the teachings of his immaculate Son.

The grotesque Egyptian images worshipped on the Nile before the building
of the pyramids, are, judging from the best preserved antiquities,
not very much inferior to the gilded deities to be seen to-day in
the thousand pagodas of heathen lands.

Take for example a Chinese idol of modern make: while it is less angular
and more elaborately finished than the ancient monstrosities found in
Egypt, still, so far as perfection of form or beauty of expression
is concerned, there is little to choose between the two.

Each is a fitting type of the
degree of civilization and soul culture of the peoples that produced
them.

It must not be urged that the success of sculpture in Greece
and Rome disproves the proposition that the art could not develop
itself among a strictly idolatrous race.

The splendid mythologies of the Greeks and Romans must not be considered
as the highest forms even of the worship of idols or inanimate things.
The gods and goddesses of these mythological systems were principally
the powers that were supposed to preside over the different forces
and elements of nature, and were invested with the celestial attributes
of a higher order of beings. Neptune ruled the sea, Pluto was director
of ceremonies in the infernal regions, while Jupiter was emperor
of the sky and king of all the lesser gods.

These deities were the invention of a cultivated intellect, a refined
taste and polished civilization, and furnish a striking proof of
man's longing after the Infinite, unguided by the star of revelation. Those generals whom the
  nation has paid without service rendered for so many years, have, in
  the day of need, with some honorable exceptions, but served to
  injure her by their bad example or unskillfulness. The dead and
  wounded on those battlefields received no marks of military
  distinction, sharing alike the sad fate which has been the same from
  Palo Alto to Cerro Gordo; the dead remained unburied and the wounded
  abandoned to the clemency and charity of the victor. It had become evident that a formidable rebellion threatened to wrest
the Siberian provinces from the Russian crown.

  
  
  
Asiatic Russia, or Siberia, covers a superficial area of 1,790,208
square miles, and contains nearly two millions of inhabitants.on threatened to wrest
the Siberian provinces from the Russian crown.

Asiatic
  Russia,
  
  or Siberia, covers a superficial area of 1,790,208 square miles,
and contains nearly two millions of inhabitants.

there is something
higher, sweeter, purer, yet to be attained.

Therefore, man or woman, when thy ideal is shattered,--as shattered
a thousand times it must be,--when the vision fades, the rapture burns
out, turn not away in skepticism and bitterness, saying, "There is
nothing better for a man than that he should eat and drink," but rather
cherish the revelations of those hours as prophecies and foreshadowings
of something real and possible, yet to be attained in the manhood,
of immortality.

The scoffing spirit that laughs at romance is
an apple of the Devil's own handing from the bitter tree of knowledge;--it
opens the eyes only to see eternal nakedness.

If ever you have had a romantic, uncalculating friendship,--a
boundless worship and belief in some hero of your soul,--if ever
you have so loved, that all cold prudence, all selfish worldly considerations
have gone down like drift-wood before a river flooded with new rain
from heaven, so that you even forgot yourself, and were ready to cast
your whole being into the chasm of existence, as an offering before
the feet of another, and all for nothing,--if you awoke bitterly betrayed
and deceived, still give thanks to God that you have had one glimpse
of heaven.

The door now shut will open
again.

Rejoice
that the noblest capability of your eternal inheritance has been
made known to you; treasure it, as the highest honor of your being,
that ever you could so feel,--that so divine a guest ever possessed
your soul.

 Those generals whom the
  nation has paid without service rendered for so many years, have, in
  the day of need, with some honorable exceptions, but served to
  injure her by their bad example or unskillfulness. The dead and
  wounded on those battlefields received no marks of military
  distinction, sharing alike the sad fate which has been the same from
  Palo Alto to Cerro Gordo; the dead remained unburied and the wounded
  abandoned to the clemency and charity of the victor. The poor fellows set up a weak cheer at the sight of the old flag,
and those who had the strength hobbled and tumbled off the train almost
before it stopped.

We took
  four
  
  hundred and one on board.

Two other vessels which accompanied us took each two
hundred more.
 Again,
  contemplate, honorable Mexicans, the lot of peaceful and industrious
  citizens in all classes of your country.