MR. ISAACS A TALE OF MODERN INDIA

BY F. MARION CRAWFORD

1882

BY F. MARION CRAWFORD

CHAPTER I.

In spite of Jean-Jacques and his school, men are not everywhere born free, any more than they
are everywhere in chains, unless these be of their own individual making. Especially in countries
where excessive liberty or excessive tyranny favours the growth of that class most usually
designated as adventurers, it is true that man, by his own dominant will, or by a still more
potent servility, may rise to any grade of elevation; as by the absence of these qualities
he may fall to any depth in the social scale.

Wherever freedom degenerates into license, the ruthless predatory instinct of certain bold
and unscrupulous persons may, and almost certainly will, place at their disposal the goods,
the honours, and the preferment justly the due of others; and in those more numerous and certainly
more unhappy countries, where the rule of the tyrant is substituted for the law of God, the
unwearying flatterer, patient under blows and abstemious under high-feeding, will assuredly
make his way to power.

Without doubt the Eastern portion of the world, where an hereditary, or at least traditional,
despotism has never ceased since the earliest social records, and where a mode of thought infinitely
more degrading than any feudalism has become ingrained in the blood and soul of the chief races,
presents far more favourable conditions to the growth and development of the true adventurer
than are offered in any free country. For in a free country the majority can rise and overthrow
the favourite of fortune, whereas in a despotic country they cannot. Of Eastern countries in
this condition, Russia is the nearest to us; though perhaps we understand the Chinese character
better than the Russian. The Ottoman empire and Persia are, and always have been, swayed by
a clever band of flatterers acting through their nominal master; while India, under the kindly
British rule, is a perfect instance of a ruthless military despotism, where neither blood nor
stratagem have been spared in exacting the uttermost farthing from the miserable serfs--they
are nothing else--and in robbing and defrauding the rich of their just and lawful possessions.
All these countries teem with stories of adventurers risen from the ranks to the command of
armies, of itinerant merchants wedded to princesses, of hardy sailors promoted to admiralties,
of half-educated younger sons of English peers dying in the undisputed possession of ill-gotten
millions. With the strong personal despotism of the First Napoleon began a new era of adventurers
in France; not of elegant and accomplished adventurers like M. de St. Germain, Cagliostro,
or the Comtesse de la Motte, but regular rag-tag-and-bobtail cut-throat moss-troopers, who
carved and slashed themselves into notice by sheer animal strength and brutality.

There is infinitely more grace and romance about the Eastern adventurer. There is very little
slashing and hewing to be done there, and what there is, is managed as quietly as possible.
When a Sultan must be rid of the last superfluous wife, she is quietly done up in a parcel
with a few shot, and dropped into the Bosphorus without more ado. The good old-fashioned Rajah
of Mudpoor did his killing without scandal, and when the kindly British wish to keep a secret,
the man is hanged in a quiet place where there are no reporters. As in the Greek tragedies,
the butchery is done behind the scenes, and there is no glory connected with the business,
only gain. The ghosts of the slain sometimes appear in the columns of the recalcitrant Indian
newspapers and gibber a feeble little "Otototoi!" after the manner of the shade of Dareios,
but there is very little heed paid to such visitations by the kindly British. But though the
"raw head and bloody bones" type of adventurer is little in demand in the East, there is plenty
of scope for the intelligent and wary flatterer, and some room for the honest man of superior
gifts, who is sufficiently free from Oriental prejudice to do energetically the thing which
comes in his way, distancing all competitors for the favours of fortune by sheer industry and
unerring foresight.

I once knew a man in the East who was neither a flatterer nor freebooter, but who by his own
masterly perseverance worked his way to immense wealth, and to such power as wealth commands,
though his high view of the social aims of mankind deterred him from mixing in political questions.
Bon chien chasse de race is a proverb which applies to horses, cattle, and men, as well as
to dogs; and in this man, who was a noble type of the Aryan race, the qualities which have
made that race dominant were developed in the highest degree. The sequel, indeed, might lead
the ethnographer into a labyrinth of conjecture, but the story is too tempting a one for me
to forego telling it, although the said ethnographer should lose his wits in striving to solve
the puzzle.

In September, 1879, I was at Simla in the lower Himalayas,--at the time of the murder of Sir
Louis Cavagnari at Kabul,--being called there in the interests of an Anglo-Indian newspaper,
of which I was then editor. In other countries, notably in Europe and in America, there are
hundreds of spots by the sea-shore, or on the mountain-side, where specific ills may be cured
by their corresponding antidotes of air or water, or both. Following the aristocratic and holy
example of the Bishops of Salzburg for the last eight centuries, the sovereigns of the Continent
are told that the air and waters of Hofgastein are the only nenuphar for the over-taxed brain
in labour beneath a crown. The self-indulgent sybarite is recommended to Ems, or Wiesbaden,
or Aix-la-Chapelle, and the quasi-incurable sensualist to Aix in Savoy, or to Karlsbad in Bohemia.
In our own magnificent land Bethesdas abound, in every state, from the attractive waters of
lotus-eating Saratoga to the magnetic springs of Lansing, Michigan; from Virginia, the carcanct
of sources, the heaving, the warm, the hot sulphur springs, the white sulphur, the alum, to
the hot springs of Arkansas, the Ultima Thule of our migratory and despairing humanity. But
in India, whatever the ailing, low fever, high fever, "brandy pawnee" fever, malaria caught
in the chase of tigers in the Terai, or dysentery imbibed on the banks of the Ganges, there
is only one cure, the "hills;" and chief of "hill-stations" is Simla.

On the hip rather than on the shoulder of the aspiring Himalayas, Simla--or Shumla, as the
natives call it--presents during the wet monsoon period a concourse of pilgrims more varied
even than the Bagnères de Bigorre in the south of France, where the gay Frenchman asks permission
of the lady with whom he is conversing to leave her abruptly, in order to part with his remaining
lung, the loss of the first having brought him there. "Pardon, madame," said he, "je m'en vais
cracher mon autre poumon."

To Simla the whole supreme Government migrates for the summer--Viceroy, council, clerks, printers,
and hangers-on. Thither the high official from the plains takes his wife, his daughters, and
his liver. There the journalists congregate to pick up the news that oozes through the pent-house
of Government secrecy, and failing such scant drops of information, to manufacture as much
as is necessary to fill the columns of their dailies. On the slopes of "Jako"--the wooded eminence
that rises above the town--the enterprising German establishes his concert-hall and his beer-garden;
among the rhododendron trees Madame Blavatzky, Colonel Olcott and Mr. Sinnett move mysteriously
in the performance of their wonders; and the wealthy tourist from America, the botanist from
Berlin, and the casual peer from Great Britain, are not wanting to complete the motley crowd.
There are no roads in Simla proper where it is possible to drive, excepting one narrow way,
reserved when I was there, and probably still set apart, for the exclusive delectation of the
Viceroy. Every one rides--man, woman, and child; and every variety of horseflesh may be seen
in abundance, from Lord Steepleton Kildare's thoroughbreds to the broad-sterned equestrian
vessel of Mr. Currie Ghyrkins, the Revenue Commissioner of Mudnugger in Bengal. But I need
not now dwell long on the description of this highly-favoured spot, where Baron de Zach might
have added force to his demonstration of the attraction of mountains for the pendulum. Having
achieved my orientation and established my servants and luggage in one of the reputed hotels,
I began to look about me, and, like an intelligent American observer, as I pride myself that
I am, I found considerable pleasure in studying out the character of such of the changing crowd
on the verandah and on the mall as caught my attention.

At last the dinner-hour came. With the rest I filed into the large dining-room and took my
seat. The place allotted to me was the last at one side of the long table, and the chair opposite
was vacant, though two remarkably well-dressed servants, in turbans of white and gold, stood
with folded arms behind it, apparently awaiting their master. Nor was he long in coming. I
never remember to have been so much struck by the personal appearance of any man in my life.
He sat down opposite me, and immediately one of his two servants, or khitmatgars, as they are
called, retired, and came back bearing a priceless goblet and flask of the purest old Venetian
mould. Filling the former, he ceremoniously presented his master with a brimming beaker of
cold water. A water-drinker in India is always a phenomenon, but a water-drinker who did the
thing so artistically was such a manifestation as I had never seen. I will take to our biography.' I
told him it would be a happy day when he left off that subject, and that the only thing that reconciled me
to it was, that the doctors had said that it was so fortunate, with his partial loss of health, that
he could find something to interest and occupy his days.

He said, 'This is to be your jointure, and the proceeds are to be set apart for an annuity for you';
and I said, 'I hope not; I hope you will live to spend it like the other.' He said, 'I am afraid
it will make a great row in England, because The Arabian Nights was a baby tale in comparison
to this, and I am in communication with several men in England about it.' The next morning, at 7 a.m., he had ceased
to exist.

Some days later, when I locked myself up in his rooms, and sorted and examined the manuscripts,
I read this one. No promise had been exacted from me, because the end had been so unforeseen,
and I remained for three days in a state of perfect torture as to what I ought to do about it. During
that time I received an offer from a man whose name shall be always kept private, of six thousand
guineas for it. 'I can take in the world, but I cannot deceive God
Almighty, who holds my husband's soul in His hands.' I tested one man
who was very earnest about it: 'Let us go and consult So-and-so'; but
he, with a little shriek of horror, said, 'Oh, pray don't let me have
anything to do with it; don't let my name get mixed up in it, but
it is a beautiful book I know.'

"I sat down on the floor before the fire at dark, to consult my own heart, my own head. How I wanted
a brother! My heart said, 'You can have six thousand guineas; your husband worked for you,
kept you in a happy home with honour and respect for thirty years. How are you going to reward him?
Why, it would be just parallel with the original thirty pieces of
silver!' I fetched the manuscript and laid it on the ground before
me, two large volumes' worth.

Still my thoughts were, Was it a sacrilege? It was his magnum opus, his last work that he was
so proud of, that was to have been finished on the awful morrow--that never came. Will he rise
up in his grave and curse me or bless me? And then I said, 'Not only not for six thousand guineas,
but not for six million guineas will I risk it.' Sorrowfully, reverently, and in fear and trembling,
I burnt sheet after sheet, until the whole of the volumes were consumed."[1]

As to the act itself I am not called upon to express any opinion. But there can be no two opinions
among fair-minded people as to the heroism, the purity, and the sublime self-sacrifice of the
motives which prompted Lady Burton to this deed. Absolutely devoted to her husband and his interests
as she had been in his lifetime, she was equally jealous of his honour
now that he was dead.

Nothing
must tarnish the brightness of his good name. It was this thought, above
all others, which led her to burn The Scented Garden.

For this act the vials of misrepresentation and abuse were poured on Lady Burton's head. She was accused
of the "bigotry of a torquemada, the vandalism of a John Knox." She has been called hysterical and
illiterate. It has been asserted that she did it from selfish motives, "for the sake of her
own salvation, through the promptings of a benighted religion," for fear of the legal consequences which
might fall upon her if she sold the book, for love of gain, for love
of notoriety, for love of "posing as a martyr," and so on, and so on.

She was publicly vilified and privately abused, pursued with obscene, anonymous, and insulting letters until
the day of her death. In fact, every imputation was hurled at her, and she who might have answered
all her persecutors with a word, held her peace, or broke it only to put them on another track.
It was not merely the act itself which caused her suffering; it was the long persecution which followed
her from the day her letter appeared in The Morning Post almost to
the day she died. How keenly she felt it none but those who knew her
best will ever know.

A proud, high-spirited woman, she had never schooled herself to stay
her hand, but generally gave her adversaries back blow for blow;
but these cowardly attacks she bore in silence, nay more, she counted
all the suffering as gain, for she was bearing it for the sake of
the man she loved.

And this silence would never have been broken, and the true reasons which led Lady Burton to act
as she did would never have been told to the world, had it not been that, after her death,
a woman, whom she had never injured by thought, word, or deed, has seen fit to rake up this
unpleasant subject again, for the purpose of throwing mud on her memory, impugning
her motives, and belittling the magnitude of her sacrifice. It is solely
in defence that the truth is now told.

I have never read Sir Richard's translation of The Scented Garden,
for the simple reason there is none in existence (notwithstanding all
that has been said to the contrary); the only two copies were destroyed
by his widow.

But I have read another translation of the book, mainly the work of
a man who was also an Orientalist and a distinguished soldier, which,
though doubtless inferior to Burton's, is more than sufficient to give
one full knowledge of the character of the book. I have read also Burton's
original and unexpurgated edition of Alf Laylah wa Laylah and his Terminal
Essay, including the Section which is omitted in all later editions,
and certain other unpublished notes of his on the same subject.
Lady Burton also talked with me freely on the matter.

I know therefore of what I speak, and am not in the same position
as Lady Burton's latest accuser, who declares with quite unnecessary
emphasis that she has never read The Arabian Nights, and of course
never saw the burnt manuscript of The Scented Garden.

She is therefore obviously disqualified to express any opinion on the subject.

So far as I can gather from all I have learned, the chief value of Burton's version of The Scented
Garden lay not so much in his translation of the text, though that of course was admirably done, as in the copious
notes and explanations which he had gathered together for the purpose of annotating the book. He had made
this subject a study of years, though his actual translation of it only took him eighteen months. The
theme of The Scented Garden is one which is familiar to every student
of Oriental literature.

Burton,
who was nothing if not thorough in all he undertook, did not ignore
this. In fact, one may say that from his early manhood he had been working at it,
as he commenced his inquiries soon after his arrival in India. But from what
I have read in The Arabian Nights and elsewhere, it seems to me that Burton's
researches in this direction were rather of an ethnological and historical
character than a medical or scientific one.

His researches had this peculiarity, that whereas most of the writers
on this subject speak from hearsay, Burton's information was obtained
at first hand, by dint of personal inquiries.

Thus it came about that he was misunderstood. For a man, especially a young soldier whose work is
not generally supposed to lie in the direction of scientific and ethnological
investigation, to undertake such inquiries was to lay himself open to
unpleasant imputations. His contemporaries and comrades in India
did not understand him, and what people do not understand they often
dislike.

In his regiment he soon incurred odium, and a cloud of prejudice enveloped him. Unfortunately,
too, he was not overwise; and he had a habit of telling tales against
himself, partly out of bravado, which of course did not tend to improve
matters.

People are very apt to be taken at their own valuation, especially if their valuation be a bad one.
It must not be supposed that I am giving countenance, colour, or belief to these rumours against
Burton for a moment: on the contrary, I believe them to be false
and unjust; but false and unjust though they were, they were undoubtedly
believed by many, and herein was the gathering of the cloud which
hung over Burton's head through the earlier part of his official
career.

To prove that I am not drawing on my own imagination with regard to this theory, I quote the following,
told in Burton's own words:--

"In 1845, when Sir Charles Napier had conquered and annexed Sind,
. . . it was reported to me that Karachi, a townlet of some two thousand
souls, and distant not more than a mile from camp. . . . He was refused
the post he coveted--namely, to accompany the second expedition to Mooltan
as interpreter; and seeing all prospect of promotion at an end for
the present, he obtained a long furlough, and came home from India
under a cloud.

Evil rumour travels fast; and when he went to Boulogne (the time and place where he first met Isabel),
there were plenty of people ready to whisper ill things concerning him. When he returned to India
two years after, notwithstanding his Mecca exploit, he found prejudice
still strong against him, and nothing he could do seemed to remove
it.

His enemies in India and at home were not slow to use it against him. One can trace its baleful influence
throughout his subsequent career. Lady Burton, whose vigilance on her husband's
behalf never slept, and who would never rest until she confronted
his enemies, got to know of it.

When I know not, in what way I know not, but the fact that sooner or later she did get to know of
it is indisputable. How she fought to dispel this cloud none but
herself will ever know.

Official displeasure she could brave, definite charges she could combat; but this baseless rumour, shadowy,
indefinite, intangible, ever eluded her, but eluded her only to reappear.

She could not grasp it. She was conscious that the thing was in the air, so to speak, but she could not even
assume its existence. She could only take her stand by her husband,
and point to his blameless life and say, "You are all the world to me;
I trust you and believe in you with all my heart and soul." And in
this her wisdom was justified, for at last the calumny died down, as
all calumnies must die, for lack of sustenance.

When The Arabian Nights came out, at which she had worked so hard to
manage the business arrangements, Lady Burton did not read the book
throughout; she had promised her husband not to do so.

She had perhaps a vague idea of some of its contents, for she raised objections. He explained them away, and
she then worked heart and soul to ensure its success.

The success which the book achieved, and the praise with which it
was greeted, were naturally gratifying to her, and did much to dispel any
objections which she might have had, especially when it is remembered
that this book yielded profits which enabled her to procure for her
husband every comfort and luxury for his declining years.

It has been urged against her that she was extravagant because, when Burton died, only four florins remained
of the 10,000 pounds which they had netted by The Arabian Nights; but when it is borne in mind
that she spent every penny upon her husband and not a penny upon
herself, it is not possible that the charge of extravagance can be
maintained against her--certainly not in a selfish sense.

When Burton took to translating The Scented Garden, he acquainted his wife
to some extent with its contents, and she objected. But he overcame
her objections, as he had done before, and the thought that the money
would be needed to maintain her husband in the same comfort as he
enjoyed during the last few years weighed down her scruples; besides
which, though she had a general idea that the book was not virginibus
purisque, she had no knowledge of its real character.

When therefore she read it for the first time, in the lonely days of her early widowhood, with
the full shock of her sudden loss upon her, and a vivid sense of the worthlessness of all earthly
gain brought home to her, she naturally did not look at things from the worldly point of view.
She has told with graphic power how she sat down with locked doors to read this book, and how she read it through
carefully, page by page; and it must be remembered that it was not Burton's translation alone
which she read, but also the notes and evidence which he had collected on the subject. Then it was
that the real nature of its contents was brought home to her, and she determined to act. It has
been said that she only "half understood" what she read. Alas! she understood but too well, for here
was the nameless horror which she had tried to track to earth leaping up again and staring her
in the face. She knew well enough what interpretations her husband's
enemies--those enemies whom even the grave does not silence--would place
upon this book; how they would turn and twist it about, and put the
worst construction upon his motives, and so blur the fair mirror
of his memory.

Burton wrote as a scholar and an ethnologist writing to scholars and ethnologists. But take what
precautions he would, sooner or later, and sooner rather than later
the character of his book would ooze out to the world, and the ignorant
world judges harshly.

So she burnt the manuscript leaf by leaf; and by the act she consummated her life sacrifice of love.

I repeat that her regard for her husband's memory was her supreme reason for this act. That there were minor
reasons is not denied: she herself has stated them. There was the thought of the harm a book of this kind
might do; there was the thought of her responsibility to God and man; there was the thought of the eternal welfare
of her husband's soul. She has stated, "It is my belief that by this act, if my husband's soul
were weighed down, the cords were cut, and it was left free to soar to its native heaven." It is easy to sneer
at such a sentiment as this, but the spiritual was very real with Lady Burton. All these minor considerations,
therefore, weighed with her in addition to the greatest of them all. On the other hand, there came to
her the thought that it was the first time she had ever gone against her husband's wishes, and
now that he was dead they were doubly sacred to her. The mental struggle
which she underwent was a terrible one: it was a conflict which is not
given to certain lower natures to know, and not knowing it, they
can neither understand nor sympathize.

I make bold to say that the sacrifice which she made, and the motives
which prompted her to make it, will stand to her honour as long as
her name is remembered.

There remain two other considerations: the first is--Why did she make
this act known to the world at all? Surely it would have been better from
every point of view to have veiled it in absolute secrecy. She has
given the answer in her own words: "I was obliged to confess this
because there were fifteen hundred men expecting the book, and I did
not quite know how to get at them; also I wanted to avoid unpleasant
hints by telling the truth."

In other words, there was a large number of Burton's supporters, persons who had subscribed to The
Arabian Nights, and all his literary friends, with whom he was in constant communication, who
knew that he was working at The Scented Garden, and were eagerly expecting it. Lady Burton burned the
manuscript in October, 1890; she did not make her public confession of the act in The Morning Post
until June, 1891, nearly nine months after the event. During all
this time she was continually receiving letters asking what had become
of the book which she knew that she had destroyed.

What course was open to her? One answer suggests itself: send a circular or write privately
to all these people, saying the book would not come out at all. But this was impossible because
she did not know all of "the little army of her husband's admiring subscribers";
she neither knew their names nor their addresses; and apart from the
endless worry and difficulty of answering letters which such a course
would have entailed, a garbled version of the facts would be sure to
have leaked out, and then she would have had to contradict the misstatements
publicly.

Or perhaps spurious copies of The Scented Garden professing to be Sir Richard's translation might have
been foisted upon the public, and she would have been under the necessity of denouncing them. So she
argued that it was best to have the thing over and done with once for all, to make a clean
breast of it, and let the world say what it pleased. In this I cannot but think that she was right,
though she often said, "I have never regretted for a moment having burned it, but I shall regret all my
life having made it known publicly, though I could hardly have done
otherwise. I did not know my public, I did not know England."

Here
I think she was wrong in confusing England with a few anonymous letter- writers
and scurrilous persons; for however opinions may differ upon the
act itself, its wisdom or unwisdom, all right-thinking people honoured
her for the sacrifice which she had made.

They would have honoured her even more if they had known that she had
done it for the sake of her husband's name!

Her latest and most malevolent accuser, Miss Stisted, has also urged
against her that by this act she conveyed a "wrong impression concerning
the character of the book," and so cast a slur upon her husband's
memory.

A wrong impression! The ignorance and animus of this attack are obvious. The character of the
manuscript was well known: it was the translation of a notorious
book.

The story of Burton's inquiries in this unpleasant field was known too, if
not to the many at least to the few, and his enemies had not scrupled
to place the worst construction on his motives.

His wife knew this but too well, and she fought the prejudice with
sleepless vigilance all the years of her married life, and by this
last act of hers did her best to bury it in oblivion. Surely it is cruelly
unjust to say that it was she who cast the slur!

And now to refer to another matter. Miss Stisted animadverts on Lady
Burton's having sold the library edition of The Arabian Nights in
1894 "with merely a few excisions absolutely indispensable."

"Coming as it did so soon," she says, "after her somewhat theatrical destruction
of The Scented Garden," this act "could not be permitted to pass unchallenged."
She not only charges Lady Burton with inconsistency, but hints at
pecuniary greed, for she mentions the sum she received.

Yet there was nothing inconsistent in Lady Burton's conduct in this connexion. On the contrary, it
is one more tribute to her consistency, one more proof of the theory I have put forward in her defence,
for the excisions which Lady Burton made were only those which referred to the subject which was the
theme of The Scented Garden. Lady Burton was no prude: she knew also that her husband did not
write as "a young lady to young ladies"; but she drew the line at a certain point, and she drew it
rigidly. By her husband's will she had full power to bring out any editions
she might please of The Arabian Nights or any other book of his. She therefore sanctioned
the library edition with certain excisions, and the reasons which prompted
her to make these excisions in The Arabian Nights were the same as
those which led her to burn The Scented Garden.

NOTES:

1. Lady Burton's letter to The Morning Post, June 19, 1891. 2. Vol. X. Arabian Nights, Terminal
Essay, Section D, pp. 205, 206, 1886.

CHAPTER II. THE RETURN TO ENGLAND. (1890-1891).

Not yet, poor soul! A few more darksome hours And sore temptations met and overcome, A few more crosses bravely,
meekly carried, Ere I can proudly call the tried one home. Nerve then thy heart; the toil will soon
be done, The crown of self-denial nobly earned and won.

From Lady Burton's Devotional Book "Tan."
Lady Burton remained at Trieste three months after her husband's
death. We have seen how she spent the first weeks of her bereavement,
locked up with his manuscripts and papers. During that time she would
see no one, speak to no one. When her work was done, all her husband's
wishes as to the disposal of his private papers carried out, and the
manuscripts duly sorted and arranged, she came out from her seclusion,
and put herself a little in touch with the world again. She was deeply
touched at the sympathy which was shown to her. The Burtons had been
so many years at Trieste, and were so widely known there and respected,
that Sir Richard's death was felt as a public loss. A eulogy of Sir
Richard was delivered in the Diet of Trieste, and the House adjourned
as a mark of respect to his memory. I could not speak a word of the Indian dialects, still less of
English, and I knew no one save the crew of the vessel I had come in, as poor as I, but saved
from starvation by the slender pittance allowed them on land. I wandered about all day through
the bazaars, occasionally speaking to some solemn looking old shopkeeper or long-bearded Mussulman,
who, I hoped, might understand a little Arabic. But not one did I find. At evening I bathed
in the tank of a temple full from the recent rains, and I lay down supperless to sleep on the
steps of the great mosque. As I lay on the hard stones I looked up to my star, and took comfort,
and slept. That night a dream came to me. I thought I was still awake and lying on the steps,
watching the wondrous ruler of my fate. And as I looked he glided down from his starry throne
with an easy swinging motion, like a soap-bubble settling to the earth. And the star came and
poised among the branches of the palm-tree over the tank, opalescent, unearthly, heart shaking.
His face was as the face of the prophet, whose name be blessed, and his limbs were as the limbs
of the Hameshaspenthas of old. Garments he had none, being of heavenly birth, but he was clothed
with light as with a garment, and the crest of his silver hair was to him a crown of glory.
And he spoke with the tongues of a thousand lutes, sweet strong tones, that rose and fell on
the night air as the song of a lover beneath the lattice of his mistress, the song of the mighty
star wooing the beautiful sleeping earth. And then he looked on me and said: 'Abdul Hafiz,
be of good cheer. I am with thee and will not forsake thee, even to the day when thou shalt
pass over the burning bridge of death. Thou shalt touch the diamond of the rivers and the pearl
of the sea, and they shall abide with thee, and great shall be thy wealth. And the sunlight
which is in the diamond shall warm thee and comfort thy heart; and the moonlight which is in
the pearl shall give thee peace in the night-time, and thy children shall be to thee a garland
of roses in the land of the unbeliever.' And the star floated down from the palm-branches and
touched me with his hand, and breathed upon my lips the cool breath of the outer firmament,
and departed. Then I awoke and saw him again in his place far down the horizon, and he was
alone, for the dawn was in the sky and the lesser lights were extinguished. And I rose from
the stony stairway that seemed like a bed of flowers for the hopeful dream, and I turned westward,
and praised Allah, and went my way.

"The sun being up, all was life, and the life in me spoke of a most capacious appetite. So
I cast about for a shop where I might buy a little food with my few coppers, and seeing a confectioner
spreading out his wares, I went near and took stock of the queer balls of flour and sugar,
and strange oily-looking sweetmeats. Having selected what I thought would be within my modest
means, I addressed the shopkeeper to call his attention, though I knew he would not understand
me, and I touched with my hand the article I wanted, showing with the other some of the small
coins I had. As soon as I touched the sweetmeats the man became very angry, and bounding from
his seat called his neighbours together, and they all shouted and screamed at me, and called
a man I thought to be a soldier, though he looked more like an ape in his long loose trousers
of dirty black, and his untidy red turban, under which cumbrous garments his thin and stunted
frame seemed even blacker and more contemptible than nature had made them. I afterwards discovered
him to be one of the Bombay police. He seized me by the arm, and I, knowing I had done no wrong,
and curious to discover, if possible, what the trouble was, accompanied him whither he led
me. After waiting many hours in a kind of little shed where there were more policemen, I was
brought before an Englishman. Of course all attempts at explanation were useless. I could speak
not a word of anything but Arabic and Persian, and no one present understood either. At last,
when I was in despair, trying to muster a few words of Greek I had learned in Istamboul, and
failing signally therein, an old man with a long beard looked curiously in at the door of the
crowded court. Some instinct told me to appeal to him, and I addressed him in Arabic. To my
infinite relief he replied in that tongue, and volunteered to be interpreter. In a few moments
I learned that my crime was that I had touched the sweetmeats on the counter.

"In India, as you who have lived here doubtless know, it is a criminal offence, punishable
by fine or imprisonment, for a non-Hindu person to defile the food of even the lowest caste
man. To touch one sweetmeat in a trayful defiles the whole baking, rendering it all unfit for
the use of any Hindu, no matter how mean. Knowing nothing of caste and its prejudices, it was
with the greatest difficulty that the moolah, who was trying to help me out of my trouble,
could make me comprehend wherein my wrong-doing lay, and that the English courts, being obliged
in their own interest to uphold and protect the caste practices of the Hindus, at the risk
of another mutiny, could not make any exception in favour of a stranger unacquainted with Indian
customs. So the Englishman who presided said he would have to inflict a fine, but being a very
young man, not yet hardened to the despotic ways of Eastern life, he generously paid the fine
himself, and gave me a rupee as a present into the bargain. It was only two shillings, but
as I had not had so much money for months I was as grateful as though it had been a hundred.
If I ever meet him I will requite him, for I owe him all I now possess.

"My case being dismissed, I left the court with the old moolah, who took me to his house and
inquired of my story, having first given me a good meal of rice and sweetmeats, and that greatest
of luxuries, a little pot of fragrant Mocha coffee; he sat in silence while I ate, ministering
to my wants, and evidently pleased with the good he was doing. Then he brought out a package
of birris, those little cigarettes rolled in leaves that they smoke in Bombay, and I told him
what had happened to me. I implored him to put me in the way of obtaining some work by which
I could at least support life, and he promised to do so, begging me to stay with him until
I should be independent. The day following I was engaged to pull a punkah in the house of an
English lawyer connected with an immense lawsuit involving one of the Mohammedan principalities.
For this irksome work I was to receive six rupees--twelve shillings--monthly, but before the
month was up I was transferred, by the kindness of the English lawyer and the good offices
of my co-religionist the moolah, to the retinue of the Nizam of Haiderabad, then in Bombay.
Since that time I have never known want.

"I soon mastered enough of the dialects to suit my needs, and applied myself to the study of
English, for which opportunities were not lacking. At the end of two years I could speak the
language enough to be understood, and my accent from the first was a matter of surprise to
all; I had also saved out of my gratuities about one hundred rupees. Having been conversant
with the qualities of many kinds of precious stones from my youth up, I determined to invest
my economies in a diamond or a pearl. Before long I struck a bargain with an old marwarri over
a small stone, of which I thought he misjudged the value, owing to the rough cutting. The fellow
was cunning and hard in his dealings, but my superior knowledge of diamonds gave me the advantage.
I paid him ninety-three rupees for the little gem, and sold it again in a month for two hundred
to a young English 'collector and magistrate,' who wanted to make his wife a present. I bought
a larger stone, and again made nearly a hundred per cent on the money. Then I bought two, and
so on, until having accumulated sufficient capital, I bade farewell to the Court of the Nizam,
where my salary never exceeded sixteen rupees a month as scribe and Arabic interpreter, and
I went my way with about two thousand rupees in cash and precious stones. I came northwards,
and finally settled in Delhi, where I set up as a dealer in gems and objects of intrinsic value.
It is now twelve years since I landed in Bombay. I have never soiled my hands with usury, though
I have twice advanced large sums at legal interest for purposes I am not at liberty to disclose;
I have never cheated a customer or underrated a gem I bought of a poor man, and my wealth,
as you may judge from what you have seen, is considerable. Moreover, though in constant intercourse
with Hindus and English, I have not forfeited my title to be called a true believer and a follower
of the prophet, whose name be blessed."

Isaacs ceased speaking, and presently the waning moon rose pathetically over the crest of the
mountains with that curiously doleful look she wears after the full is past, as if weeping
over the loss of her better half. The wind rose and soughed drearily through the rhododendrons
and the pines; and Kiramat Ali, the pipe-bearer, shivered audibly as he drew his long cloth
uniform around him. We rose and entered my friend's rooms, where the warmth of the lights,
the soft rugs and downy cushions, invited us temptingly to sit down and continue our conversation.
But it was late, for Isaacs, like a true Oriental, had not hurried himself over his narrative,
and it had been nine o'clock when we sat down to smoke. So I bade him good-night, and, musing
on all I had heard and seen, retired to my own apartments, glancing at Sirius and at the unhappy-looking
moon before I turned in from the verandah.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER II.

In India--in the plains--people rise before dawn, and it is not till after some weeks' residence
in the cooler atmosphere of the mountains that they return to the pernicious habit of allowing
the sun to be before them. The hours of early morning, when one either mopes about in loose
flannel clothes, or goes for a gallop on the green maidán, are without exception the most delicious
of the day. I shall have occasion hereafter to describe the morning's proceedings in the plains.
On the day after the events recorded in the last chapter I awoke as usual at five o'clock,
and meandered out on to the verandah to have a look at the hills, so novel and delicious a
sight after the endless flats of the northwest provinces. It was still nearly dark, but there
was a faint light in the east, which rapidly grew as I watched it, till, turning the angle
of the house, I distinguished a snow-peak over the tops of the dark rhododendrons, and, while
I gazed, the first tinge of distant dawning caught the summit, and the beautiful hill blushed,
as a fair woman, at the kiss of the awakening sun. The old story, the heaven wooing the earth
with a wondrous shower of gold.

"Prati 'shya sunarî janî"--the exquisite lines of the old Vedic hymn to the dawn maiden, rose
to my lips. I had never appreciated or felt their truth down in the dusty plains, but here,
on the free hills, the glad welcoming of the morning light seemed to run through every fibre,
as thousands of years ago the same joyful thrill of returning life inspired the pilgrim fathers
of the Aryan race. Almost unconsciously, I softly intoned the hymn, as I had heard my old Brahmin
teacher in Allahabad when he came and sat under the porch at daybreak, until I was ready for him--

    The lissome heavenly maiden here,
    Forth flashing from her sister's arms,
    High heaven's daughter, now is come.

    In rosy garments, shining like
    A swift bay mare; the twin knights' friend,
    Mother of all our herds of kine.

    Yea, thou art she, the horseman's friend;
    Of grazing cattle mother thou,
    All wealth is thine, thou blushing dawn.

    Thou who hast driven the foeman back,
    With praise we call on thee to wake
    In tender reverence, beauteous one.

    The spreading beams of morning light
    Are countless as our hosts of kine,
    They fill the atmosphere of space.

    Filling the sky, thou openedst wide
    The gates of night, thou glorious dawn--
    Rejoicing-run thy daily race!

    The heaven above thy rays have filled,
    The broad belovèd room of air,
    O splendid, brightest maid of morn!

I went indoors again to attend to my correspondence, and presently a gorgeously liveried white-bearded
chuprassie appeared at the door, and bending low as he touched his hand to his forehead, intimated
that "if the great lord of the earth, the protector of the poor, would turn his ear to the
humblest of his servants, he would hear of something to his advantage."

So saying, he presented a letter from the official with whom I had to do, an answer to my note
of the previous afternoon, requesting an interview. In due course, therefore, the day wore
on, and I transacted my business, returned to "tiffin," and then went up to my rooms for a
little quiet. "I wonder my Lord Chesterfield associates with such a villain!" called out Harry from his
table. The other couple of diners looked at him. To his surprise the nobleman so addressed went
on talking.

"There cannot be a more fieffe coquin than this Poellnitz.

Why, Heaven be thanked, he has actually left me my snuff-box! You
laugh?--the fellow is capable of taking it."

And my lord thought it was his own satire at which the young men were laughing.

"You are quite right, sir," said one of the two diners, turning to Mr. Warrington, "though, saving
your presence, I don't know what business it is of yours. My lord will play with anybody who will
set him.

Don't be alarmed, he is as deaf as a post, and did not hear a word that you
said; and that's why my lord will play with anybody who will put
a pack of cards before him, and that is the reason why he consorts
with this rogue."

"Faith, I know other noblemen who are not particular as to their company," says Mr. Jack.

"Do you mean because I associate with you? I know my company, my good friend, and I defy most men to
have the better of me."

Not having paid the least attention to Mr. Warrington's angry interruption,
my lord opposite was talking in his favourite French with Monsieur
Barbeau, the landlord, and graciously complimenting him on his dinner.

The host bowed again and again; was enchanted that his Excellency
was satisfied: had not forgotten the art which he had learned when
he was a young man in his Excellency's kingdom of Ireland.

The salmi
was to my lord's liking? He had just served a dish to the young American seigneur who sate opposite, the gentleman
from Virginia.

"To whom?"

My lord's
pale face became red for a moment, as he asked this question, and
looked towards Harry Warrington, opposite to him.

"To the young gentleman from Virginia who has just arrived, and who
perfectly possesses our beautiful language!" says Mr. Barbeau, thinking
to kill two birds, as it were, with this one stone of a compliment.

"And to whom your lordship will be answerable for language reflecting
upon my family, and uttered in the presence of these gentlemen," cried
out Mr. Warrington, at the top of his voice, determined that his opponent
should hear.

"You must go and call into his ear, and then he may perchance hear you," said one of the younger guests.

"I
will take care that his lordship shall understand my meaning, one
way or other," Mr. Warrington said, with much dignity; "and will not
suffer calumnies regarding my relatives to be uttered by him or any
other man!"

Whilst Harry was speaking, the little nobleman opposite to him did not hear him, but had time sufficient
to arrange his own reply. He had risen, passing his handkerchief once or twice
across his mouth, and laying his slim fingers on the table.

"Sir," said he, "you will believe, on the word of a gentleman, that
I had no idea before whom I was speaking, and it seems that my acquaintance,
Monsieur de Poellnitz, knew you no better than myself. Had I known
you, believe me that I should have been the last man in the world to utter
a syllable that should give you annoyance; and I tender you my regrets
and apologies, before my Lord March and Mr. Morris here present."

To these words, Mr. Warrington could only make a bow, and mumble out a few words of acknowledgment:
which speech having made believe to hear, my lord made Harry another very
profound bow, and saying he should have the honour of waiting upon
Mr. Warrington at his lodgings, saluted the company, and went away.

CHAPTER XXVI.

In which we are at a very Great Distance from Oakhurst

Within the precinct of the White Horse Tavern, and coming up to the
windows of the eating-room, was a bowling-green, with a table or two,
where guests might sit and partake of punch or tea.

The three gentlemen having come to an end of their dinner about the
same time, Mr. Morris proposed that they should adjourn to the Green,
and there drink a cool bottle.

"Jack Morris would adjourn to the Dust Hole, as a pretext for a fresh
drink," said my lord.

On which Jack said he supposed each gentleman had his own favourite
way of going to the deuce.

His weakness, he owned, was a bottle.

"My Lord Chesterfield's deuce is deuce-ace," says my Lord March. "His
lordship can't keep away from the cards or dice."

"My Lord March has not one devil, but several devils.

He loves
gambling, he loves horse-racing, he loves betting, he loves drinking,
he loves eating, he loves money, he loves women; and you have fallen
into bad company, Mr. Warrington, when you lighted upon his lordship.

He will play you for every acre you have in Virginia."

"With the greatest pleasure in life, Mr. Warrington!" interposes my
lord.

"And for all your tobacco, and for all your spices, and for all your slaves, and for all your oxen
and asses, and for everything that is yours."

"Shall we begin now? Jack, you are never without a dice-box or a bottle-screw. I will set Mr. Warrington
for what he likes."

"Unfortunately, my lord, the tobacco, and the slaves, and the asses,
and the oxen, are not mine, as yet.

I am just of age, and my mother, scarce twenty years older, has quite
as good chance of long life as I have."

"I will bet you that you survive her.

I will pay you a sum now against four times the sum to be paid at
her death.

I will set you a fair sum over this table against the reversion of your
estate in Virginia at the old lady's departure.

What do you call your place?"

"Castlewood."

"A principality, I hear it is. I will bet that its value has been exaggerated
ten times at least amongst the quidnuncs here.

How came you by the name of Castlewood?--you are related to my lord?

Oh, stay: I know,--my lady, your mother, descends from the real head
of the house.

He took the losing side in '15. I have had the story a dozen times from my old Duchess. She knew
your grandfather.

He was friend of Addison and Steele, and Pope and Milton, I dare
say, and the bigwigs.

It is a pity he did not stay at home, and transport the other branch
of the family to the plantations."

"I have just been staying at Castlewood with my cousin there," remarked
Mr. Warrington.

"Hm!

Did you play with him? He's fond of pasteboard and bones."

"Never, but for sixpences and a pool of commerce with the ladies."

"So much the better for both of you. But you played with Will Esmond if he was at home? I will lay ten to
one you played with Will Esmond."

Harry blushed, and owned that of an evening his cousin and he had
had a few games at cards.

"And Tom Sampson, the chaplain," cried Jack Morris, "was he of the party?
I wager that Tom made a third, and the Lord deliver you from Tom
and Will Esmond together!"

"Nay; the truth is, I won of both of them," said Mr. Warrington.

"And they paid you? Well, miracles will never cease!"

"I did not say anything about miracles," remarked Mr. Harry, smiling over his wine.

"And you don't tell tales out of school--the volto sciolto--hey, Mr.
Warrington?" says my lord.

"I beg your pardon," said downright Harry, "French is the only language
besides my own of which I know a little."

"My Lord March
has learned Italian at the Opera, and a pretty penny his lessons have
cost him," remarked Jack Morris.

"We must show him the Opera--mustn't we, March?"

"Must we, Morris?" said my lord, as if he only half liked the other's
familiarity.

Both of the two gentlemen were dressed alike, in small scratch-wigs
without powder, in blue frocks with plate buttons, in buckskins and
riding-boots, in little hats with a narrow cord of lace, and no outward
mark of fashion.

"I don't care about the Opera much, my lord," says Harry, warming
with his wine; "but I should like to go to Newmarket, and long to
see a good English hunting-field."

"We will show you Newmarket and the hunting-field, sir.

Can you ride pretty well?"

"I think I can," Harry said; "and I can shoot pretty well, and jump some."

"What's your weight?

I bet you we weigh even, or I weigh most. I bet you Jack Morris beats you at birds or a mark, at
five-and-twenty paces.

I bet you I jump farther than you on flat ground, here on this green."

"I
don't know Mr. Morris's shooting--I never saw either gentleman before--but
I take your bets, my lord, at what you please," cries Harry, who by
this time was more than warm with Burgundy.

"Ponies on each!" cried my lord.

"Done and done!" cried my lord and Harry together. The young man thought
it was for the honour of his country not to be ashamed of any bet
made to him.

"We can try the last bet now, if your feet are pretty steady," said
my lord, springing up, stretching his arms and limbs, and looking
at the crisp, dry grass.

He drew his boots off, then his coat and waistcoat, buckling his belt
round his waist, and flinging his clothes down to the ground.

Harry had more respect for his garments.

It was his best suit. He took off the velvet coat and waistcoat, folded
them up daintily, and, as the two or three tables round were slopped
with drink, went to place the clothes on a table in the eating-room,
of which the windows were open.

Here a new guest had entered; and this was no other than Mr. Wolfe,
who was soberly eating a chicken and salad, with a modest pint of
wine.

Harry was in high spirits. He told the Colonel he had a bet with my
Lord March--would Colonel Wolfe stand him halves?

The Colonel said he was too poor to bet.

Would he come out and see fair play? That he would with all his heart.

Colonel
Wolfe set down his glass, and stalked through the open window after
his young friend.

"Who is that tallow-faced Put with the carroty hair?" says Jack Morris, on whom the Burgundy had
had its due effect.

Mr. Warrington explained that this was Lieutenant-Colonel Wolfe, of
the 20th Regiment.

"Your humble servant, gentlemen!" says the Colonel, making the company
a rigid military bow.

       

"Never saw such a figure in my life!" cries Jack Morris. "Did you--March?"

"I
beg your pardon, I think you said March?" said the Colonel, looking very
much surprised.

"I am the Earl of March, sir, at Colonel Wolfe's service," said the
nobleman, bowing.

"My friend, Mr. Morris, is so intimate with me, that, after dinner, we are quite like brothers."

Why is not all Tunbridge Wells by to hear this? thought Morris. And he was so delighted that he shouted
out, "Two to one on my lord!"

"Done!" calls out Mr. Warrington; and the enthusiastic Jack was obliged
to cry "Done!" too.

"Take him, Colonel," Harry whispers to his friend.

But the Colonel said he could not afford to lose, and therefore could
not hope to win.

"I see you have won one of our bets already, Mr. Warrington," my Lord March
remarked. "I am taller than you by an inch or two, but you are broader
round the shoulders."

"Pooh, my dear Will! I bet you you weigh twice as much as he does!"
cries Jack Morris.

"Done, Jack!" says my lord, laughing. "The bets are all ponies. Will
you take him, Mr. Warrington?"

"No, my dear fellow--one's enough," says Jack.

"Very good, my dear fellow," says my lord; "and now we will settle the
other wager."

Having already arrayed himself in his best silk stockings, black satin-net
breeches, and neatest pumps, Harry did not care to take off his shoes
as his antagonist had done, whose heavy riding-boots and spurs were,
to be sure, little calculated for leaping.

They had
before them a fine even green turf of some thirty yards in length, enough
for a run and enough for a jump.

A gravel
walk ran around this green, beyond which was a wall and gate-sign--a
field azure, bearing the Hanoverian White Horse rampant between two
skittles proper, and for motto the name of the landlord and of the
animal depicted.

My lord's friend laid a handkerchief on the ground as the mark whence
the leapers were to take their jump, and Mr. Wolfe stood at the other
end of the grass-plat to note the spot where each came down.

"My lord went first," writes Mr. Warrington, in a letter
to Mrs. Mountain, at Castlewood, Virginia, still extant. "He was
for having me take the lead; but, remembering the story about the
Battel of Fontanoy which my dearest George used to tell, I says, 'Monseigneur
le Comte, tirez le premier, s'il vous play.' So he took his run in
his stocken feet, and for the honour of Old Virginia, I had the gratafacation
of beating his lordship by more than two feet--viz., two feet nine
inches--me jumping twenty-one feet three inches, by the drawer's measured
tape, and his lordship only eighteen six.

I
had won from him about my weight before (which I knew the moment I set
my eye upon him). So he and Mr. Jack paid me these two betts. And with
my best duty to my mother--she will not be displeased with me, for I bett
for the honor of the Old Dominion, and my opponent was a nobleman of the
first quality, himself holding two Erldomes, and heir to a Duke. Betting is all
the rage here, and the bloods and young fellows of fashion are betting
away from morning till night.

"I told them--and that was my mischief perhaps--that there was a gentleman
at home who could beat me by a good foot; and when they asked who it was,
and I said Col. G. Washington, of Mount Vernon--as you know he can, and
he's the only man in his county or mine that can do it--Mr. Wolfe
asked me ever so many questions about Col. G. W., and showed that
he had heard of him, and talked over last year's unhappy campane as
if he knew every inch of the ground, and he knew the names of all
our rivers, only he called the Potowmac Pottamac, at which we had
a good laugh at him.

My Lord of March and Ruglen was not in the least ill-humour about
losing, and he and his friend handed me notes out of their pocket-books,
which filled mine that was getting very empty, for the vales to the
servants at my cousin Castlewood's house and buying a horse at Oakhurst
have very nearly put me on the necessity of making another draft upon
my honoured mother or her London or Bristol agent."

These feats of activity over, the four gentlemen now strolled
out of the tavern garden into the public walk, where, by this time, a
great deal of company was assembled: upon whom Mr. Jack, who was
of a frank and free nature, with a loud voice, chose to make remarks
that were not always agreeable.

And here, if my Lord March made a joke, of which his lordship was not sparing, Jack
roared, "Oh, ho, ho! Oh, good Gad!

Oh, my dear earl! Oh, my dear lord, you'll be the death of me!" "It seemed
as if he wished everybody to know," writes Harry sagaciously to Mrs.
Mountain, "that his friend and companion was an Erl!"

There was, indeed, a great variety of characters who passed. M. Poellnitz,
no finer dressed than he had been at dinner, grinned, and saluted
with his great laced hat and tarnished feathers.

Then came by my Lord Chesterfield, in a pearl-coloured suit, with his blue
ribbon and star, and saluted the young men in his turn.

"I will back the old boy for taking his hat off against the whole kingdom,
and France either," says my Lord March.

"He has never changed the
shape of that hat of his for twenty years. Look at it. There it goes again!
Do you see that great, big, awkward, pock-marked, snuff-coloured man,
who hardly touches his clumsy beaver in reply. D---- his confounded
impudence--do you know who that is?"

"No, curse him! Who is it, March?" asks Jack,
with an oath.

"It's one Johnson, a Dictionary-maker, about whom my Lord Chesterfield wrote
some most capital papers, when his dixonary was coming out, to patronise
the fellow. I know they were capital. I've heard Horry Walpole say so,
and he knows all about that kind of thing. Confound the impudent schoolmaster!"

"Hang
him, he ought to stand in the pillory!" roars Jack.

"That fat man he's walking with is another of your writing fellows,--a printer,--his
name is Richardson; he wrote Clarissa, you know."

"Great heavens! my lord, is that the great Richardson? Is that the
man who wrote Clarissa?" called out Colonel Wolfe and Mr. Warrington,
in a breath.

Harry ran forward to look at the old gentleman toddling along the
walk with a train of admiring ladies surrounding him.

"Indeed, my very dear sir," one was saying, "you are too great and
good to live in such a world; but sure you were sent to teach it virtue!"

"Ah,

my Miss Mulso! Who
shall teach the teacher?" said the good, fat old man, raising a kind,
round face skywards.

"Even he has his faults and errors!
Even his age and experience does not prevent him from stumbl---. Heaven
bless my soul, Mr. Johnson! I ask your pardon if I have trodden on
your corn."

"You have done both, sir. You have trodden on the corn, and
received the pardon," said Mr. Johnson, and went on mumbling some
verses, swaying to and fro, his eyes turned towards the ground, his
hands behind him, and occasionally endangering with his great stick
the honest, meek eyes of his companion-author.

"They do not see very well, my dear Mulso," he says to the young lady,
"but such as they are, I would keep my lash from Mr. Johnson's cudgel.
Your servant, sir." Here he made a low bow, and took off his hat to Mr.
Warrington, who shrank back with many blushes, after saluting the
great author.

The great author was accustomed
to be adored. A gentler wind never puffed mortal vanity. Enraptured
spinsters flung tea-leaves round him, and incensed him with the coffee-pot.

Matrons kissed the slippers they had
worked for him. There was a halo of virtue round his nightcap. All Europe
had thrilled, panted, admired, trembled, wept, over the pages of the
immortal little, kind, honest man with the round paunch.

Harry
came back quite glowing and proud at having a bow from him. "Ah!"
says he, "my lord, I am glad to have seen him!"

"Seen him! why, dammy, you may see him any day in his shop, I suppose?"
says Jack, with a laugh.

"My brother declared that he, and Mr. Fielding, I think, was the name,
were the greatest geniuses in England; and often used to say, that
when we came to Europe, his first pilgrimage would be to Mr. Richardson,"
cried Harry, always impetuous, honest, and tender, when he spoke of
the dearest friend.

"Your brother spoke like a man," cried Mr. Wolfe, too, his pale face
likewise flushing up. "I would rather be a man of genius, than a peer
of the realm."

"Every man to his taste, Colonel," says my lord, much
amused. "Your enthusiasm--I don't mean anything personal--refreshes me,
on my honour it does."

"So it does me--by gad--perfectly refreshes me," cries Jack

"So it does Jack--you see--it actually refreshes Jack! I say, Jack,
which would you rather be?--a fat old printer," who has written a story
about a confounded girl and a fellow that ruins her,--or a peer of
Parliament with ten thousand a year?"

"March--my Lord March, do you take me for a fool?" says Jack, with a
tearful voice. "Have I done anything to deserve this language from you?"

"I
would rather win honour than honours: I would rather have genius
than wealth. I would rather make my name than inherit it, though my
father's, thank God, is an honest one," said the young Colonel. "But
pardon me, gentlemen," and here making, them a hasty salutation, he
ran across the parade towards a young and elderly lady and a gentleman,
who were now advancing.

"It is the beautiful Miss Lowther. I remember
now," says my lord. "See! he takes her arm! The report is, he is engaged
to her."

"You don't mean to say such a fellow is engaged to any of
the Lowthers of the North?" cries out Jack. "Curse me, what is the
world come to, with your printers, and your half-pay ensigns, and
your schoolmasters, and your infernal nonsense?"

The Dictionary-maker,
who had shown so little desire to bow to my Lord Chesterfield, when
that famous nobleman courteously saluted him, was here seen to take
off his beaver, and bow almost to the ground, before a florid personage
in a large round hat, with bands and a gown, who made his appearance
in the Walk. This was my Lord Bishop of Salisbury, wearing complacently
the blue riband and badge of the Garter, of which Noble Order his
lordship was prelate.

Mr. Johnson stood, hat in hand, during the
whole time of his conversation with Dr. Gilbert; who made many flattering
and benedictory remarks to Mr. Richardson, declaring that he was the
supporter of virtue, the preacher of sound morals, the mainstay of
religion, of all which points the honest printer himself was perfectly
convinced.

Do not let any young lady trip to her grandpapa's bookcase
in consequence of this eulogium, and rashly take down Clarissa from
the shelf. She would not care to read the volumes, over which her
pretty ancestresses wept and thrilled a hundred years ago; which were
commended by divines from pulpits and belauded all Europe over. I
wonder, are our women more virtuous than their grandmothers, or only
more squeamish? If the former, then Miss Smith of New York is certainly
more modest than Miss Smith of London, who still does not scruple
to say that tables, pianos, and animals have legs. Oh, my faithful,
good old Samuel Richardson! Hath the news yet reached thee in Hades
that thy sublime novels are huddled away in corners, and that our
daughters may no more read Clarissa than Tom Jones? Go up, Samuel,
and be reconciled with thy brother-scribe, whom in life thou didst
hate so. Surely it is contrary to the custom of your co-religionists; and how can you expect
an infidel Frank to give you advice?"

"I don't," laconically replied my host.

"Besides, with your views of women in general, their vocation, their aims, and their future
state, is it at all likely that we should ever arrive at even a fair discussion of marriage
and marriage laws? With us, women have souls, and, what is a great deal more, seem likely to
have votes. They certainly have the respectful and courteous service of a large proportion
of the male sex. You call a woman a thing of the devil; we call her an angel from heaven; and
though some eccentric persons like myself refuse to ally themselves for life with any woman,
I confess, as far as I am concerned, that it is because I cannot contemplate the constant society
of an angel with the degree of appreciation such a privilege justly deserves; and I suspect
that most confirmed bachelors, knowingly or unconsciously, think as I do. The Buddhists are
not singular in their theory that permanent happiness should be the object."

"They say," said Isaacs, quickly interrupting, "that the aim of the ignorant is pleasure; the
pursuit of the wise, happiness. Pray, under which category would you class marriage? I suppose
it comes under one or the other."

"I cannot say I see the force of that. Look at your own case, since you have introduced it."

"Never mind my own case. I mean with your ideas of one wife, and heavenly woman, and voting,
and domestic joy, and all the rest of it. Take the ideal creature you rave about--"

"I never rave about anything."

"Take the fascinating female you describe, and for the sake of argument imagine yourself very
poor or very rich, since you would not enter wedlock in your present circumstances. Suppose
you married your object of 'courteous service and respectful adoration;' which should you say
you would attain thereby, pleasure or happiness?"

"Pleasure is but the refreshment that cheers us in the pursuit of true happiness," I answered,
hoping to evade the direct question by a sententious phrase.

"I will not let you off so easily. You shall answer my question," he said. He looked full at
me with a deep searching gaze that seemed hardly warranted by the lightness of the argument.
I hesitated, and he impatiently leaned forward, uncrossing his legs and clasping his hands
over one knee to bring himself nearer to me.

"Pleasure or happiness?" he repeated, "which is it to be?"

A sudden light flashed over my obscured intellect.

"Both," I answered. "Could you see the ideal woman as I would fain paint her to you, you would
understand me better. The pleasure you enjoy in the society of a noble and beautiful woman
should be but the refreshment by the wayside as you journey through life together. The day
will come when she will be beautiful no longer, only noble and good, and true to you as to
herself; and then, if pleasure has been to you what it should be, you will find that in the
happiness attained it is no longer counted, or needed, or thought of. It will have served its
end, as the crib holds the ship in her place while she is building; and when your white-winged
vessel has smoothly glided off into the great ocean of happiness, the crib and the stocks and
the artificial supports will fall to pieces and be forgotten for ever. Yet have they had a
purpose, and have borne a very important part in the life of your ship."

Having heard me attentively till I had finished, Isaacs relaxed his hold on his knee and threw
himself back on the cushions, as if to entrench himself for a better fight. I had made an impression
on him, but he was not the man to own it easily. Presumably to gain time, he called for hookahs
and sherbet, and though the servants moved noiselessly in preparing them, their presence was
an interruption.

When we were settled again he had taken a nearly upright position on the couch, and as he pulled
at the long tube his face assumed that stolid look of Oriental indifference which is the most
discouraging shower-bath to the persuasive powers. I had really no interest in converting him
to my own point of view about women. Honestly, was it my own point of view at all? Would anything
under heaven induce me, Paul Griggs, rich, or poor, or comfortably off, to marry any one--Miss
Westonhaugh, for instance? Probably not. But then my preference for single blessedness did
not prevent me from believing that women have souls. That morning the question of the marriage
of the whole universe had been a matter of the utmost indifference, and now I, a confirmed
and hopelessly contented bachelor, was trying to convince a man with three wives that matrimony
was a most excellent thing in its way, and that the pleasure of the honeymoon was but the faint
introduction to the bliss of the silver wedding. It certainly must be Isaacs' own doing. He
had launched on a voyage of discovery and had taken me in tow. I had a strong suspicion that
he wanted to be convinced, and was playing indifference to soothe his conscience.

"Well," said I at last, "have you any fault to find with my reasoning or my simile?"

"With your simile--none. It is faultlessly perfect. You have not mixed up your metaphors in
the least. Crib, stocks, ocean, ship--all correct, and very nautical. As for your reasoning,
I do not believe there is anything in it. I do not believe that pleasure leads to happiness;
I do not believe that a woman has a soul, and I deny the whole argument from beginning to end.
There," he added with a smile that belied the brusqueness of his words, "that is my position.
Talk me out of it if you can; the night is long, and my patience as that of the ass."

"I do not think this is a case for rigid application of logic. When the feelings are concerned--and
where can they be more concerned than in our intercourse with women?--the only way to arrive
at any conclusion is by a sort of trying-on process, imagining ourselves in the position indicated,
and striving to fancy how it would suit us. Let us begin in that way. Suppose yourself unmarried,
your three wives and their children removed--"

"Allah in his mercy grant it!" ejaculated Isaacs with great fervour.

"--removed from the question altogether. Then imagine yourself thrown into daily conversation
with some beautiful woman who has read what you have read, thought what you have thought, and
dreamed the dreams of a nobler destiny that have visited you in waking and sleeping hours.
A woman who, as she learned your strange story, should weep for the pains you suffered and
rejoice for the difficulties overcome, who should understand your half spoken thoughts and
proudly sympathise in your unuttered aspirations; in whom you might see the twin nature to
your own, and detect the strong spirit and the brave soul, half revealed through the feminine
gentleness and modesty that clothe her as with a garment. Imagine all this, and then suppose
it lay in your power, was a question of choice, for you to take her hand in yours and go through
life and death together, till death seem life for the joy of being united for ever. Suppose
you married her--not to lock her up in an indolent atmosphere of rosewater, narghyles, and
sweetmeats, to die of inanition or to pester you to death with complaints and jealousies and
inopportune caresses; but to be with you and help your life when you most need help, by word
and thought and deed, to grow more and more a part of you, an essential element of you in action
or repose, to part from which would be to destroy at a blow the whole fabric of your existence.
Would you not say that with such a woman the transitory pleasure of early conversation and
intercourse had been the stepping-stone to the lasting happiness of such a friendship as you
could never hope for in your old age among your sex? Would not her faithful love and abounding
sympathy be dearer to you every day, though the roses in her cheek should fade and the bright
hair whiten with the dust of life's journey? Would you not feel that when you died your dearest
wish must be to join her where there should be no parting--her from whom there could be no
parting here, short of death itself? Would you not believe she had a soul?"

"There is no end of your 'supposing,' but it is quite pretty. I am half inclined to 'suppose'
too." He took a sip of sherbet from the tall crystal goblet the servant had placed on a little
three-legged stool beside him, and as he drank the cool liquid slowly, looked over the glass
into my eyes, with a curious, half earnest, half smiling glance; I could not tell whether my
enthusiastic picture of conjugal bliss amused him or attracted him, so I waited for him to
speak again.

"Now that you have had your cruise in your ship of happiness on the waters of your cerulean
imagination, permit me, who am land-born and a lover of the chase, to put my steed at a few
fences in the difficult country of unadorned facts over which I propose to hunt the wily fox,
matrimony. I have never hunted a fox, but I can quite well imagine what it is like.

"In the first place, it is all very well to suppose that it had pleased Allah in his goodness
to relieve me of my three incumbrances--meanwhile, there they are, and they are very real difficulties
I assure you. And in a minute or two he was able to declare that the injury had been done to the
lady's ankle, the lady herself having assisted him to this conclusion by coming to her senses,
groaning, and putting her hand down to the suffering joint.

The conductor frowned. "What is the lady's name and address, please, ma'am?" he asked of Mrs. Tarbell. "I have
to make a report of the accident."

"You'll find it out soon enough," said a thin man with a fresh complexion,
very silvery hair, and spectacles.

"The company will not have to wait long for the information."

He looked about with a cheerful smile, and the conductor glared at him
contemptuously.

"She never tried to get on while you were going," continued the thin
man.

"It was your driver; that's what it was."

"The lady's name is Stiles, conductor," said Mrs. Tarbell,--"Stiles;
and she lives--dear me!--on Pulaski Street.

Can I do anything for you, doctor?"

"You might send your boy for a carriage," said the doctor, who was
engaged in removing Mrs. Stiles's shoe.

"Nothing else, thank you, unless you happen to have some lead-water about you." He gave a professional
smile, and Mrs. Stiles groaned dismally.

Mrs. Tarbell despatched John for the carriage, and then, turning,
and blushing in a way that was rather out of keeping with her tone
of voice, she said, "Now, I should be obliged if you gentlemen who
saw the accident would furnish me with your names and addresses."

On hearing this the crowd began to diminish rapidly; but the man with the red moustache set a good
example by giving his name loudly and promptly as "Oscar B. Mecutchen,
tobacconist, d'reckly opposite the City Hall." So three or four other
men allowed Mrs. Tarbell to set them down as observers of the disaster.

The gentleman in spectacles was named Stethson, another man, a tall, fat-cheeked countryman,
Vickers, and a dried up little party, in a Grand-Army-of-the-Republic
suit, Parthenheimer.

Mrs.
Tarbell had the names down pat, and scrutinized each prospective
witness carefully, as if warning him that it would be no use for him
to give a fictitious name in the hope of evading his duties, as she
would now be able to pick him out of a regiment.

"I am very much obliged to you," she said, in a stately manner.

"Now, you all agree that the accident was the result of the negligence
of the driver of the car?"

"Why, yes, certainly," they all agreed at once.

"Leastways--" said Mecutchen.

"That is--" said Parthenheimer.

"How was it, anyway?" asked Stethson.

"Thought you saw it," cried the others, turning on him instantly.

"So I did," said Stethson; "but I thought I'd like to hear what you
gentlemen's impression was."

"Well," said Mecutchen and Vickers, the tall man, together, tipping
back their hats with a simultaneous and precisely similar movement
on the part of each,--nothing is more indicative of the careful independence
of the average American than the way in which he always keeps his
head covered in the presence of his lawyer,--"Well," said Vickers
and Mecutchen.

Mr. Mecutchen bowed to Mr. Vickers, and Mr. Vickers bowed to Mr.
Mecutchen, with a sort of grotesque self-effacement.

Mr. Vickers waved his hand, and Mr. Mecutchen proceeded.

"Why," said he, "the lady stopped the car in the middle of the block,--just like a woman,--got on the platform,
car started with a jerk, and she fell off."

Vickers and Parthenheimer nodded assent, but Stethson said that his
view of it was that the car started off again while she was trying
to get on.

"That makes it stronger," said Mecutchen.

"Well, of course," said Stethson, settling his spectacles farther back on his nose; and Vickers murmured
that you couldn't have it too strong, as he knew from the point of
view (as he said) of cows.

"It's wonderful what you can get for cows," he added pensively.

"Ag'in' a railroad company," said the grizzled old Parthenheimer, "the stronger the better, because
some cases, no matter how aggerawated they are, you only git a specific
sum and no damages.

But a railroad case, which is a damage case right through, the worse they are the more you git. I had
a little niece to be killed by a freight-train, and they took off
that pore little girl's head, and her right arm, and her left leg,
all three, like it was done by a mowing-machine,--so clean cut, you
know.

Well, sir, they got a werdick for six thousand dollars, my brother and
his wife did; and their lawyer stood to it that the mangling brought
in three thousand; and I think he was right about it, too."

"Six thousand!" said Vickers, with immense appreciation.

"The court set it aside for being excessive," said Parthenheimer," and aft'werds they compromised
for less. But there it was.

And the way it was done was odd, too. Right arm and left leg."

"Ah," said Vickers, "living right on a railroad, the way I do, you see some queerer accidents than
that. Now, I remember--"

But Mrs. Tarbell found this conversation growing quite too ghastly to be listened to with composure,
so she turned abruptly toward the sofa.

The doctor was now bathing and examining Mrs. Stiles's ankle, and
Mrs. Stiles looked not merely the picture but the dramatic materialization
of misery.

"How do you feel now, Mrs. Stiles? How do you think she is, doctor?" These
two questions were put in Mrs. Tarbell's sweetest tones.

Mrs. Stiles lay for a moment without answering, but the doctor replied that he was afraid it
was a nasty business. "There is a dislocation, and there may be nothing
more, except a sprain," he said.

       "But it will be impossible to tell until the swelling is reduced; and
if there is a fracture of the fibula, why, such a complication is
apt to be serious."

Mrs. Stiles groaned feebly, and then looked up at Mrs. Tarbell with gratitude.
"I never thought to be so much trouble to you," she murmured.

"Do not think of that for a moment," said Mrs. Tarbell. "If I only had my cologne-bottle," she said,
half aloud, in an apologetic voice. This was one of the luxuries she had
refused herself in her professional toilet; more than this, she did
not allow herself to carry a smelling-bottle, though Mr. Juddson had
told her it could be used with great effect to disconcert an opposing
counsel.

"I am afraid you are suffering very much," she went on.

"Yes, ma'am," said Mrs. Stiles sadly. "If I hadn't only been such a fool as to try to get on that
there car while it was a-going."

Mrs. Tarbell started. The doctor rose and laughed.

"You don't mean that," said he.

"Mean what, doctor?"

"That you tried to get on while the car was going.

All these gentlemen here say the car started while you were trying
to get on, which is a very different thing, you know."

The doctor had evidently kept his ears open while attending to the
sufferer.

Mrs. Tarbell, rather red in the face, kept silent, not knowing exactly
what she ought to do.

"I don't know," said Mrs. Stiles feebly. "I don't s'pose I remember
much."

"Of course you don't," said the doctor cheerfully.

"Bless you, you'll sue the company and have a famous verdict; I
wouldn't take ten thousand dollars for your chances if I had them.

You observe," he went on confidentially to Mrs. Tarbell, "I am doing my best for the community of interests
which, ought to exist among the learned professions.

I raise this poor woman's spirits by suggesting to her dreams of enormous damages, and at
the same time I promote litigation, to the great advantage of her
lawyer.

I think that is the true scientific spirit."

"I--I--" began Mrs. Tarbell, in some confusion.

"Beg pardon?" said the doctor. "Well, I must be off. I've done all
I can for the poor woman. She ought to send for her own doctor as soon
as she gets home.

I suppose--will you--?"

He looked at Mrs. Tarbell doubtfully, as if wondering whether he ought to take it for granted that she was in charge
of the case.

"I will tell her," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"I could tell her myself," said the doctor. "To be sure.

Well, if I could only inform her lawyer what I've done for him, he
might induce my fair patient to employ me permanently."

He smiled at his joke, shook his head waggishly, and turned to look for
his hat.

As Mrs. Tarbell looked after him in some perplexity, John, the office-boy,
came back to report that the carriage was engaged and at the door;
and Mrs. Stiles was presently carried down-stairs again, it being
quite impossible for her even to limp.

But before she was lifted up she turned her head and beckoned to Mrs.
Tarbell.

"Could I," she said,--"could I have a case against the railway company?"

"Ye-es,--I

suppose so," Mrs. Tarbell answered.

"Did they say it was the fault of the conductor that I fell off that
car?"

"Of the driver,--yes."

"Well, then, ma'am, would you advise me to bring a case against them?"

"You
had better decide for yourself," said Mrs. Tarbell faintly.

But then, remembering that it was her duty to advise, she added, "Yes, I think
you ought to sue."

"Then you'll take the case, Mrs. Tarbell, won't you, please?" said Mrs. Stiles, closing her eyes again,
as if satisfied of the future.

Mrs. Tarbell! There was a general movement of surprise as the lady lawyer's
name was pronounced, and the doctor was so much taken aback that heh
burst out laughing.

"I'm sure I beg your pardon, Mrs. Tarbell," he cried.

"I had no idea in the world--"

"Ah," said Stethson, "I looked at the sign on the door coming in. I
knew it was the lady lawyer.

My, if my wife could see you, Mrs. Tarbell!"

"And I never knew who I was talking to!" grumbled Mecutchen disgustedly.

A
quarter of an hour later, when Mr. Juddson returned to his office,
Mrs. Tarbell was engaged in drawing up a paper which ran as follows:

ANNETTE
GORSLEY STILES } Court of Common vs. } Pleas.

THE BLANK AND DASH } May Term, 1883.

AVENUES PASSENGER } No. ---- RAILWAY CO. }

To the Prothonotary of
the said Court:

Issue summons in case returnable the first Monday
in May, 1883.

TARBELL, pro
plff.

It was a precipe for a writ.

"Alexander!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in an expressive voice, regardless of
the office-boy.

"Yes?" said Mr. Juddson. The referee had refused to admit some of his testimony.

"Alexander, I have a client," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Do you tell me so?" replied Mr. Juddson absently, as he redisarranged
the papers upon his table.

"I hope--Bless me, where is that--? Mrs. Tarbell, have you seen anything
of an envelope?--John, what became of the papers in Muggins and Bylow?
I gave them to you."

Mrs. Tarbell, deeply mortified, resumed her occupation, and completed the
precipe by writing the words, "Tarbell, pro plff."

Mr. Juddson's papers were found for him, under his nose, and he
was beginning to say that he was going out to lunch, when the enormity
of his conduct made itself apparent to him.

"By George!" he said, stopping short, "you told me you had a client
at last, eh, Mrs. Tarbell?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Tarbell coldly.

"Why,--bless my soul! It's your first client, is it not? And what kind of
a case has your ewe-lamb brought you? Come, tell me about it. I did not properly
appreciate the communication." And he went over to Mrs. Tarbell's desk,
upon which he sat himself down in a position which Mrs. Tarbell had
formerly considered very undignified; but now she could not help feeling
that it was really a legal attitude.

She looked up with a smile, and then, though with a little shame,
displayed the precipe.

"Well,
that's good," said Mr. Juddson. "Accident case, I suppose. What is
it? Death, and damages for the widow?--for I see there are no children,--or
was the plaintiff herself the victim of the accident? Your sex has finally
decided to stand by you, it seems."

"I shan't send out the writ just yet," said Mrs. Tarbell, blushing. "I was--wanted
to see how the precipe would look. I must see the plaintiff again, I
think, before I advise her definitely to sue."

"Hasn't she a case?"

"Yes--but--"

"What nonsense!" cried Juddson. "Come, my dear, don't be a goose, and
don't lose a return-day.

Otherwise, I shall buy you a sewing-machine."

"Aren't you pleased, Alexander?" said Mrs. Tarbell, with a little
effusion.

"My dear, I'm delighted. I hope that in five years' time you will be supporting
me and my family. Your sister-in-law will be speechless with jealousy. I
congratulate you. Hum--The Blank and Dash Avenues Company?

Well,
you won't have to send John very far with your copies of the pleadings.
Pope was appointed attorney for the company last week, in place of old
Slyther, who resigned, you know."

"Pope?" said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Yes,--the Honorable Franklin."

"Goodness!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in a tone of inexpressible disgust.

"By jingo; you are not
fond of him, are you? Hem! Well, as a general rule, I should advise you
to put personal feelings entirely out of the question; but, as this is your
first case, perhaps it would be just as well for you to have me with
you, and let me--hum--well, let me take the jury."

"Alexander! do you think I am afraid of Mr. Pope?"

"N-no; but Pope is a blackguard, and very shady, and, it might be unpleasant
for you; and I'd do that, if I were you."

Mrs. Tarbell's spirits rose. "I
will do nothing of the sort, Alexander," she said; "though it is very
kind of you to suggest it; and I will--I will bet you,"--determinedly,--"
I will bet you a copy of the new edition of Baxter's Digest that
I beat him."

THOMAS WHARTON.

A CARCANET.

I give thee, love, a carcanet With all the rainbow splendor set, Of diamonds
that drink the sun. Of emeralds that feed upon His light as doth the
evergreen, A memory of spring between This frost of whiter pearls than
snow, And warmth of violets below A wreath of opalescent mist, Where
blooms the tender amethyst. Here, too, the captives of the mine-- The
sapphire and the ruby--shine, Rekindling each a hidden spark, Unquenched
by buried ages dark, Nor dimmed beneath the jewelled skies, Save
by the sunlight of thine eyes.

JOHN B. TABB.

IN A SALT-MINE.

There were five of us.

The little New-Yorker,
plump, blonde, and pretty, I call Cecilia: that is not her name, but
if she suggested any saint it was the patron saint of music. Her
soul was full of it, and it ran off the ends of her fingers in the
most enchanting manner.

Elise, half French, as you would see at a glance, was from the Golden
Gate,--as dainty and pretty a bit of femininity as ever wore French
gowns with the inimitable American air.

Elise could smile her way
straight through the world. All barriers gave way before her dimples,
and with her on board ship we never feared icebergs at sea, feeling confident
they would melt away before her glance. Thirdly, there was myself, and
then I come to the masculine two-fifths of our party. First, the curate.
He was young in years and in his knowledge of the great world. His parish
had sent him to the Continent with us to regain his somewhat broken health.
He sometimes spoke of himself as a shepherd, and he liked to talk
of the Church as his bride: he always blushed when he looked straight
at Elise. Cecilia liked him because his clerical coat gave tone to the
party, and his dignity was sufficient for us all, thus saving us
the trouble of assuming any.

Lastly, there was Samayana, which was not his
name either, from Bombay,--a real, live East-Indian nabob. In his
own country he travelled with three tents, a dozen servants, as many horses,
and always carried his laundress with him. Yet he never seemed lonely with
us,--which we thought very agreeable in him. Crawford had just created Mr.
Isaacs, and we fancied there was a resemblance,--barring the wives,--and he told
us such graphic stories of life in India that we were not always sure in just
which quarter of the globe we were touring. Both Samayana and the curate
were picturesque--for men. Two beings more opposed never came together,
yet they liked each other thoroughly.

Samayana was greatly admired
in European society for his color, his gift as a raconteur, and the
curious rings he wore. He was very dusky, and Cecilia, being very blonde,
valued him as a most effective foil and adjunct. We were seeing Germany
in the most leisurely fashion, courting the unexpected and letting things
happen to us.

On the day of which I write we spent the early morning on the Königsee,
in Bavaria, the loveliest sheet of water in Germany, vying in grandeur
with any Swiss or Italian lake.

Its color is that of the pheasant's breast, and the green mountain-sides,
almost perpendicular in places, rise till their peaks are in the clouds and their
snows are perpetual. Stalwart, bronzed peasant girls, in the short skirts
of the Bavarian costume, rowed us about. A few years ago, in answer
to a petition, King Louis I. promised them that never in his reign should
steam supplant them. They laughed happily and looked proudly at their muscle
when we hinted at their being tired.

We landed at different points and strolled into wooded valleys, visited
artificial hermitages, stopped for a bite at a restaurant connected
with a royal hunting-château, and listened lazily to Elise's telling
of the legends of the region, accompanied by the music of some little waterfall
coming from the snow above and gleefully leaping into the lake. We crossed
the rocky, wild pasture-land lying between the Königsee and the Obersee,
that tiny lake that faithfully gives back as a mirror all the crags, peaks,
and snowy heights which hide it away there as if it were indeed the precious
opal you may fancy it to be when viewed from above.

We drifted back to the little inn, where we were approached by a respectful
Kutscher, who asked if we would not like to go down into a salt-mine.
Whatever we did, it was with one accord, and the answer came in chorus,
"Ja, gewiss!"

Elise glanced down
at her dainty toilet, a look instantly interpreted by the Kutscher, who
explained that costumes for the descent were furnished, that the exploration
was not fatiguing, and that the carriages were ready.

It was all
done in an "Augenblick," the bill was paid, the Trinkgeld was scattered,
and we were rattling away through as beautiful a region as you will
find, even in Switzerland. The snow-peaks were dazzlingly white in
the sunshine; in the ravines and defiles the darkness lingers from
night to night; singing, leaping Alpine streams came like molten silver
from the glaciers over the rocky ledges and through the hanging forests,
and a swift river ran through this happy, fertile valley of peace
and plenty in which our roadway wound. The peasants looked content
and well-to-do, and were picturesquely clothed. We stopped an old
man and bargained for the quaint, antique silver buttons on his coat,
and paid him twice its weight in silver money for the big silver buckle
at his belt. We were stopped at the frontier, and accommodatingly
rose while the custom-officers politely looked under the carriage-seats.
The wine we had just drunk was not taxable, while that we were about
to drink was: so we presented our remaining bottles to the officers
to save them the trouble of making change. Up to that time we had
turned our horses to the right: once over the Austrian line, custom
demanded we should turn to the left, a change to which the Kutscher
readily accommodated himself. One is kept geographically informed
in that region by this difference in manners on the high-road in Austria
and Bavaria.

We argued a little about the fittingness of women working
in the fields. Cecilia thought it preferable to washing dishes, and
one of us, who believes herself not born to sew, maintained that to
rake hay was more agreeable than sitting at sewing-machines or making
shirts at twenty cents apiece after the manner of New-York workwomen.
But once indignation and excitement took possession of us all as we
caught sight of a bare-footed, slight young girl toiling up a ladder
and carrying mortar along a scaffold to men laying bricks on the second
story of a new building. The girl had a complexion like a rose-leaf,
her uncovered hair gleamed like gold in the sunshine, her head was
exquisitely set on her shoulders. The curate sighed deeply, Samayana
uttered a strong word in Hindoostanee, and there was a feminine cry
of "Shameful!" when the girl, putting down her load, folded her white
arms, whose sinew and muscle an athlete might have envied, and, with
teeth and smile as faultless as our Elise's, threw us down a "Gruss
Gott!" If there ever beamed content and happiness from human face
we saw it in that of this peasant beauty, who had no conception of
our commiseration. We gave her back a "God greet thee!" "All the same,"
said Cecilia indignantly, "women should not carry mortar." We had
noticed that Cecilia's indignation on account of the workingwoman
of Germany was extreme if the woman was pretty.

We came at last to
the mouth of the mine, from which issued a narrow railway for the
transportation of the salt-ore, and above, zigzag on the mountain-side,
ran the conduit carrying the salt, still in liquid form, to the boiling-house.
A waterfall four hundred feet high furnished power for the great pump.
About the entrance to the mine clustered a number of buildings. Many
carriages were already there, for it was the height of the tourists'
season, and this was the show-mine of the Salzkammergut. Some military
officers were standing about, a dozen or more natives lounged on the
piazzas, and nearly every carriage contained one or more occupants,
evidently waiting for travelling-companions then in the mine. There
was the fat woman who couldn't think of such an exploration, the nervous
woman who hated dark places and never went underground, a few invalids
and some chattering girls and young men who had previously been through
the mine and had come over from Salzburg for the drive, and some very
fine youths and young women who wouldn't be seen in a miner's costume.
There were a score or more of these travellers, and as many more coachmen,
and miners off duty, hanging about. A building on the opposite side
of the road was indicated to us ladies as the place in which we were
to change our costumes. Now, here was a pleasant gauntlet to run in
male attire! However, a hundred strangers were not to deter us, and,
possibly, this costume might be becoming. There were worse figures
in the world than ours, and who knew but this miners' dress might
show our forms to an advantage at which they had never been seen before?
Encouraged by the thought, we gave our treasures into safe keeping
and permitted the attendant to disrobe us. She spoke a dialect which
had little meaning to us, and we carried on our conversation by signs.

She
hung our habiliments on pegs, giving Elise's a little womanly caress
for their prettiness. As I looked, the hot blood mantled up
to his brows. She was watching him, and womanlike, seeing he was in earnest and embarrassed,
she regained her perfect natural composure.

"Oh, I had forgotten!" she said. "I forgot about your wife in Delhi." She half turned in the
hammock, and after some searching, during which we were silent, succeeded in finding a truant
piece of worsted work behind her. The wool was pulled out of the needle, and she held the steel
instrument up against the light, as she doubled the worsted round the eye and pushed it back
through the little slit. I observed that Isaacs was apparently in a line with the light, and
that the threading took some time.

"Mr. Griggs," she said slowly, and by the very slowness of the address I knew she was going
to talk to me, and at my friend, as women will; "Mr. Griggs, do you know anything about Mohammedans?"

"That is a very broad question," I answered; "almost as broad as the Mussulman creed." She
began making stitches in the work she held, and with a little side shake settled herself to
listen, anticipating a discourse. The little jackal sidled up and fawned on her feet. I had
no intention, however, of delivering a lecture on the faith of the prophet. I saw my friend
was embarrassed in the conversation, and I resolved, if possible, to interest her.

"Among primitive people and very young persons," I continued, "marriage is an article of faith,
a moral precept, and a social law."

"I suppose you are married, Mr. Griggs," she said, with an air of childlike simplicity.

"Pardon me, Miss Westonhaugh, I neither condescend to call myself primitive, nor aspire to
call myself young."

She laughed. I had put a wedge into my end of the conversation.

"I thought," said she, "from the way in which you spoke of 'primitive and young persons' that
you considered their opinion in regard to--to this question, as being the natural and proper
opinion of the original and civilised young man."

"I repeat that I do not claim to be very civilised, or very young--certainly not to be very
original, and my renunciation of all these qualifications is my excuse for the confirmed bachelorhood
to which I adhere. Many Mohammedans are young and original; some of them are civilised, as
you see, and all of them are married. 'There, is no God but God, Muhammad is his prophet, and
if you refuse to marry you are not respectable,' is their full creed."

Isaacs frowned at my profanity, but I continued--"I do not mean to say anything disrespectful
to a creed so noble and social. I think you have small chance of converting Mr. Isaacs."

"I would not attempt it," she said, laying down her work in her lap, and looking at me for
a moment. "But since you speak of creeds, to what confession do you yourself belong, if I may ask?"

"I am a Roman Catholic," I answered; adding presently--"Really, though, I do not see how my
belief in the papal infallibility affects my opinion of Mohammedan marriages."

"And what do you think of them?" she inquired, resuming her work and applying herself thereto
with great attention.

"I think that, though justified in principle by the ordinary circumstances of Eastern life,
there are cases in which the system acts very badly. I think that young men are often led by
sheer force of example into marrying several wives before they have sufficiently reflected
on the importance of what they are doing. I think that both marriage and divorce are too easily
managed in consideration of their importance to a man's life, and I am convinced that no civilised
man of Western education, if he were to adopt Islam, would take advantage of his change of
faith to marry four wives. It is a case of theory versus practice, which I will not attempt
to explain. It may often be good in logic, but it seems to me it is very often bad in real life." 

"By jiminy, I believe they'd shell out for a bill to make their town a seaport, if it was a hundred
miles from a drop of water."

But he was not content with individual subscriptions, and conscientiously scorned himself until he had got
at the city treasury.

"The corporation must pony up," he insisted, with the mayor. "This bill is just shaking in
the wind for lack of money. Fastburg must come down with the dust. You ought to see to it. What
are you chief magistrate for? Ain't it to tend to the welfare of the city? Look here, now; you call
the common council together; secret session, you understand.

You call 'em together and let me talk to 'em. I want to make the loons comprehend that it's their
duty to vote something handsome for this measure."

The mayor hummed and hawed one way, and then he hawed and hummed the other way, and the result was
that he granted the request. There was a secret session in the council-room, with his honor at the top
of the long green table, with a row of more or less respectable functionaries on either side
of it, and with Mr. Pullwool and the Devil at the bottom. Of course
it is not to be supposed that this last-named personage was visible to the
others, or that they had more than a vague suspicion of his presence.
Had he fully revealed himself, had he plainly exhibited his horns and
hoofs, or even so much as uncorked his perfume-bottle of brimstone,
it is more than probable that the city authorities would have been
exceedingly scandalized, and they might have adjourned the session.

As it was, seeing
nothing more disagreeable than the obese form of the lobbyist, they
listened calmly while he unfolded his project.

Mr. Pullwool spoke
at length, and to Fastburg ears eloquently. Why did she avoid his eyes and resort to such a petty little trick as threading
a needle in order to get a look at him? An American girl, or a French woman, would have seen
that her strength lay in perfect frankness; that Isaacs' straightforward nature would make
him tell her unhesitatingly anything she wanted to know about himself, and that her position
was strong enough for her to look him in the face and ask him what she pleased. But she allowed
herself to be embarrassed, and though she had been really glad to see him, and liked him and
thought him handsome, she was beginning to wish he would go, merely because she did not know
what to talk about, and would not give him a chance to choose his own subject. As neither of
us were inclined to carry the analysis of matrimony any farther, nor to dispute the opinions
of Mr. Currie Ghyrkins as quoted by his niece, there was a pause. I struck in and boldly changed
the subject.

"Are you going to see the polo this afternoon, Miss Westonhaugh? I heard at the hotel that
there was to be a match to-day of some interest."

"Oh yes, of course. I would not miss it for anything. Lord Steepleton is coming to tiffin,
and we shall ride down together to Annandale. Of course you are going too; it will be a splendid
thing. Do you play polo, Mr. Griggs? Mr. Isaacs is a great player, when he can be induced to
take the trouble. He knows more about it than he does about tennis."

"I am very fond of the game," I answered, "but I have no horses here, and with my weight it
is not easy to get a mount for such rough work."

"Do not disturb yourself on that score," said Isaacs; "you know my stable is always at your
disposal, and I have a couple of ponies that would carry you well enough. Let us have a game
one of those days, whenever we can get the ground. We will play on opposite sides and match
the far west against the far east."

"What fun!" cried Miss Westonhaugh, her face brightening at the idea, "and I will hold the
stakes and bestow the crown on the victor."

"What is to be the prize?" asked Isaacs, with a smile of pleasure. He was very literal and
boyish sometimes.

"That depends on which is the winner," she answered.

There was a noise among the trees of horses' hoofs on the hard path, and presently we heard
a voice calling loudly for a saice who seemed to be lagging far behind. It was a clear strong
voice, and the speaker abused the groom's female relations to the fourth and fifth generations
with considerable command of the Hindustani language. Miss Westonhaugh, who had not been in
the country long, did not understand a word of the very free swearing that was going on in
the woods, but Isaacs looked annoyed, and I registered a black mark against the name of the
new-comer, whoever he might be.

"Oh! it is Lord Steepleton," said the young girl. "He seems to be always having a row with
his servants. Don't go," she went on as I took up my hat; "he is such a good fellow, you ought
to know him."

Lord Steepleton Kildare now appeared at the corner of the lawn, hotly pursued by his breathless
groom, who had been loitering on the way, and had thus roused his master's indignation. He
was, as I have said, a fine specimen of a young Englishman, though being Irish by descent he
would have indignantly denied any such nationality. I saw when he had dismounted that he was
tall and straight, though not a very heavily built man. He carried his head high, and looked
every inch a soldier as he strode across the grass, carefully avoiding the pegs of the tennis
net. He wore a large gray felt hat, like every one else, and he shook hands all round before
he took it off, and settled himself in an easy chair as near as he could get to Miss Westonhaugh's
hammock.

"How are ye? Ah--yes, Mr. Isaacs, Mr. Griggs of Allahabad. Jolly day, isn't it?" and he looked
vaguely at the grass. "Really, Miss Westonhaugh, I got in such a rage with my rascal of a saice
that I did not remember I was so near the house. I am really very sorry I talked like that.
I hope you did not think I was murdering him?"

Isaacs looked annoyed.

"Yes," said he, "we thought Mahmoud was going to have a bad time of it. I believe Miss Westonhaugh
does not understand Hindustani."

A look of genuine distress came into the Englishman's face.

"Really," said he, very simply. "You don't know how sorry I am that any one should have heard
me. I am so hasty. But let me apologise to you all most sincerely for disturbing you with my
brutal temper."

His misdeed had not been, a very serious crime after all, and there was something so frank
and honest about his awkward little apology that I was charmed. The man was a gentleman. Isaacs
bowed in silence, and Miss Westonhaugh had evidently never thought much about it.

"We were talking about polo when you came, Lord Steepleton; Mr. Isaacs and Mr. Griggs are going
to play a match, and I am to hold the stakes. Do you not want to make one in the game?"

"May I?" said the young man, grateful to her for having helped him out. "May I? I should like
it awfully. I so rarely get a chance of playing with any except the regular set here." And
he looked inquiringly at us.

"We should be delighted, of course," said Isaacs. "By the way, can you help us to make up the
number? And when shall it be?" He seemed suddenly very much interested in this projected contest.

"Oh yes," said Kildare, "I will manage to fill up the game, and we can play next Monday. I
know the ground is free then."

"Very good; on Monday. We are at Laurie's on the hill."

"I am staying with Jack Tygerbeigh, near Peterhof. Come and see us. I will let you know before
Monday. Oh, Mr. Griggs, I saw such a nice thing about me in the Howler the other day--so many
thanks. No, really, greatly obliged, you know; people say horrid things about me sometimes.
Good-bye, good-bye, delighted to have seen you."

"Good morning, Miss Westonhaugh."

"Good morning; so good of you to take pity on my solitude." She smiled kindly at Isaacs and
civilly at me. And we went our way. As we looked back after mounting to lift our hats once
more, I saw that Miss Westonhaugh had succeeded in getting out of the hammock and was tying
on a pith hat, while Lord Steepleton had armed himself with balls and rackets from a box on
the verandah. As we bowed they came down the steps, looking the very incarnation of animal
life and spirits in the anticipation of the game they loved best. The bright autumn sun threw
their figures into bold relief against the dark shadow of the verandah, and I thought to myself
they made a very pretty picture. I seemed to be always seeing pictures, and my imagination
was roused in a new direction.

We rode away under the trees. My impression of the whole visit was unsatisfactory. I had thought
Mr. Currie Ghyrkins would be there, and that I would be able to engage him in a political discussion.
We could have talked income-tax, and cotton duties, and Kabul by the hour, and Miss Westonhaugh
and Isaacs would have had a pleasant tête-à-tête. Instead of this I had been decidedly the
unlucky third who destroys the balance of so much pleasure in life, for I felt that Isaacs
was not a man to be embarrassed if left alone with a woman, or to embarrass her. He was too
full of tact, and his sensibilities were so fine that, with his easy command of language, he
must be agreeable quand même; and such an opportunity would have given him an easy lead away
from the athletic Kildare, whom I suspected strongly of being a rival for Miss Westonhaugh's
favour. There is an easy air of familiar proprietorship about an Englishman in love that is
not to be mistaken. It is a subtle thing, and expresses itself neither in word nor deed in
its earlier stages of development; but it is there all the same, and the combination of this
possessive mood, with a certain shyness which often goes with it, is amusing.

"Griggs," said Isaacs, "have you ever seen the Rajah of Baithopoor?"

"No; you had some business with him this morning, had you not?"

"Yes--some--business--if you call it so. If you would like to see him I can take you there,
and I think you would be interested in the--the business. It is not often such gems are bought
and sold in such a way, and besides, he is very amusing. He is at least two thousand years
old, and will go to Saturn when he dies. His fingers are long and crooked, and that which he
putteth into his pockets, verily he shall not take it out."

"A pleasing picture; a good contrast to the one we have left behind us. I like contrasts, and
I should like to see him."

"You shall." And we lit our cheroots.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER V.

"We will go there at four," said Isaacs, coming into my rooms after tiffin, a meal of which
I found he rarely partook. "I said three, this morning, but it is not a bad plan to keep natives
waiting. It makes them impatient, and then they commit themselves."

"You are Machiavellian. It is pretty clear which of you is asking the favour."

"Yes, it is pretty clear." He sat down and took up the last number of the Howler which lay
on the table. Presently he looked up. "Griggs, why do you not come to Delhi? The divine intoxication of
that love where the delicacies and purities of affection consecrate
the humanity of passion was to him a thing of which not even his youngest
imagination had ever dreamed. The social concomitants of the wine-cup
(which have for the lenient an excuse, for the austere a temptation),
the generous expanding of the heart, the increased yearning to kindly
affection, the lavish spirit throwing off its exuberance in the thousand
lights and emanations of wit,--these, which have rendered the molten
grape, despite of its excesses, not unworthy of the praises of immortal
hymns, and taken harshness from the judgment of those averse to its
enjoyment,--these never presented an inducement to the stony temperament
and dormant heart of Richard Crauford.

He looked upon the essences of things internal as the common eye upon
outward nature, and loved the many shapes of evil as the latter does
the varieties of earth, not for their graces, but their utility.

His loves, coarse and low, fed their rank fires from an unmingled and
gross depravity.

His devotion to wine was either solitary and unseen-- for he loved safety better than mirth--or
in company with those whose station flattered his vanity, not whose fellowship ripened his crude
and nipped affections. Even the recklessness of vice in him had the character of prudence; and
in the most rapid and turbulent stream of his excesses, one might detect the rocky and unmoved
heart of the calculator at the bottom.

Cool, sagacious, profound in dissimulation, and not only observant of,
but deducing sage consequences from, those human inconsistencies and frailties
by which it was his aim to profit, he cloaked his deeper vices with a masterly
hypocrisy; and for those too dear to forego and too difficult to conceal
he obtained pardon by the intercession of virtues it cost him nothing
to assume. Regular in his attendance at worship; professing rigidness of
faith beyond the tenets of the orthodox church; subscribing to the
public charities, where the common eye knoweth what the private hand
giveth; methodically constant to the forms of business; primitively
scrupulous in the proprieties of speech; hospitable, at least to his
superiors, and, being naturally smooth, both of temper and address, popular
with his inferiors,--it was no marvel that one part of the world forgave to
a man rich and young the irregularities of dissipation, that another
forgot real immorality in favour of affected religion, or that the
remainder allowed the most unexceptionable excellence of words to
atone for the unobtrusive errors of a conduct which did not prejudice
them.

"It is true," said his friends, "that he loves women too much: but he
is young; he will marry and amend."

Mr. Crauford did marry; and, strange as it may seem, for love,--at
least for that brute-like love, of which alone he was capable.

After a few years of ill-usage on his side, and endurance on his wife's, they parted. Tired of her
person, and profiting by her gentleness of temper, he sent her to an obscure corner of the country, to starve
upon the miserable pittance which was all he allowed her from his superfluities. Even then--such
is the effect of the showy proprieties of form and word--Mr. Crauford
sank not in the estimation of the world.

"It was easy to see," said the spectators of his domestic drama, "that
a man in temper so mild, in his business so honourable, so civil
of speech, so attentive to the stocks and the sermon, could not have
been the party to blame.

One never knew the rights of matrimonial disagreements, nor could sufficiently estimate the provoking disparities
of temper. Certainly Mrs. Crauford never did look in good humour, and had not the open countenance
of her husband; and certainly the very excesses of Mr. Crauford betokened
a generous warmth of heart, which the sullenness of his conjugal
partner might easily chill and revolt."

And thus, unquestioned and unblamed, Mr. Crauford walked onward in his beaten
way; and, secretly laughing at the toleration of the crowd, continued
at his luxurious villa the orgies of a passionless yet brutal sensuality.

So

far might the character of Richard Crauford find parallels in hypocrisy and
its success.

Dive we
now deeper into his soul. Possessed of talents which, though of a secondary rank,
were in that rank consummate, Mr. Crauford could not be a villain by intuition
or the irregular bias of his nature: he was a villain upon a grander
scale; he was a villain upon system.

Having little learning and less knowledge, out of his profession
his reflection expended itself upon apparently obvious deductions
from the great and mysterious book of life.

He saw vice prosperous in externals, and from this sight his conclusion was drawn. "Vice," said he, "is
not an obstacle to success; and if so, it is at least a pleasanter
road to it than your narrow and thorny ways of virtue." But there are
certain vices which require the mask of virtue, and Crauford thought
it easier to wear the mask than to school his soul to the reality.

So to the villain he added the hypocrite. He found the success equalled
his hopes, for he had both craft and genius; nor was he naturally without
the minor amiabilities, which to the ignorance of the herd seem more
valuable than coin of a more important amount.

Blinded as we are by prejudice, we not only mistake but prefer decencies
to moralities; and, like the inhabitants of Cos, when offered the
choice of two statues of the same goddess, we choose, not that which
is the most beautiful, but that which is the most dressed.

Accustomed easily to dupe mankind, Crauford soon grew to despise them;
and from justifying roguery by his own interest, he now justified it
by the folly of others; and as no wretch is so unredeemed as to be
without excuse to himself, Crauford actually persuaded his reason
that he was vicious upon principle, and a rascal on a system of morality.

But why the desire of this man, so consummately worldly and heartless, for an intimacy with the impoverished
and powerless student? This question is easily answered. In the first
place, during Crauford's acquaintance with Glendower abroad, the latter had
often, though innocently, galled the vanity and self-pride of the
parvenu affecting the aristocrat, and in poverty the parvenu was
anxious to retaliate.

But this desire would probably have passed away after he had satisfied his curiosity, or gloated
his spite, by one or two insights into Glendower's home,--for Crauford,
though at times a malicious, was not a vindictive, man,--had it not been for
a much more powerful object which afterwards occurred to him. In an extensive
scheme of fraud, which for many years this man had carried on and
which for secrecy and boldness was almost unequalled, it had of late
become necessary to his safety to have a partner, or rather tool.

A man of education, talent, and courage was indispensable, and Crauford had resolved that Glendower
should be that man. With the supreme confidence in his own powers which long success had given him; with
a sovereign contempt for, or rather disbelief in, human integrity;
and with a thorough conviction that the bribe to him was the bribe
with all, and that none would on any account be poor if they had the
offer to be rich,-- Crauford did not bestow a moment's consideration
upon the difficulty of his task, or conceive that in the nature and
mind of Glendower there could exist any obstacle to his design.

Men addicted to calculation are accustomed to suppose those employed in the same mental pursuit arrive,
or ought to arrive, at the same final conclusion. Now, looking upon Glendower as a philosopher, Crauford looked upon him
as a man who, however he might conceal his real opinions, secretly laughed,
like Crauford's self, not only at the established customs, but at the
established moralities of the world. Ill-acquainted with books, the
worthy Richard was, like all men similarly situated, somewhat infected
by the very prejudices he affected to despise; and he shared the vulgar
disposition to doubt the hearts of those who cultivate the head.

Glendower himself had confirmed this opinion by lauding, though he did not entirely subscribe
to, those moralists who have made an enlightened self- interest the proper measure of all human
conduct; and Crauford, utterly unable to comprehend this system in
its grand, naturally interpreted it in a partial, sense. Espousing self-interest
as his own code, he deemed that in reality Glendower's principles
did not differ greatly from his; and, as there is no pleasure to a
hypocrite like that of finding a fit opportunity to unburden some
of his real sentiments, Crauford was occasionally wont to hold some
conference and argument with the student, in which his opinions were
not utterly cloaked in their usual disguise; but cautious even in
his candour, he always forbore stating such opinions as his own: he
merely mentioned them as those which a man beholding the villanies
and follies of his kind, might be tempted to form; and thus Glendower,
though not greatly esteeming his acquaintance, looked upon him as
one ignorant in his opinions, but not likely to err in his conduct.

These conversations did, however, it is true, increase Crauford's
estimate of Glendower's integrity, but they by no means diminished
his confidence of subduing it. Honour, a deep and pure sense of the divinity
of good, the steady desire of rectitude, and the supporting aid of
a sincere religion,--these he did not deny to his intended tool: he
rather rejoiced that he possessed them.

With the profound arrogance, the sense of immeasurable superiority,
which men of no principle invariably feel for those who have it, Crauford
said to himself, "Those very virtues will be my best dupes; they cannot
resist the temptations I shall offer; but they can resist any offer
to betray me afterwards; for no man can resist hunger: but your fine
feelings, your nice honour, your precise religion,--he! he! he!--these can
teach a man very well to resist a common inducement; they cannot make
him submit to be his own executioner; but they can prevent his turning
king's evidence and being executioner to another.

No, no: it is not to your common rogues that I may dare trust my secret,--my secret, which
is my life! It is precisely of such a fine, Athenian, moral rogue
as I shall make my proud friend that I am in want. But he has some silly
scruples; we must beat them away: we must not be too rash; and above
all, we must leave the best argument to poverty.

Want is your finest orator; a starving wife, a famished brat,--he! he!--these are your true tempters,--your
true fathers of crime, and fillers of jails and gibbets. Let me see: he has no money, I know, but what
he gets from that bookseller. What bookseller, by the by? Ah, rare thought! I'll find out, and cut
off that supply. My lady wife's cheek will look somewhat thinner next month, I fancy--he! he!
But 't is a pity, for she is a glorious creature!

Who knows but I may serve two purposes? However, one at present! business first, and pleasure afterwards;
and, faith, the business is damnably like that of life and death."

Muttering such thoughts as these, Crauford took his way one evening
to Glendower's house.

CHAPTER XLII.

Iago.--Virtue; a fig!--'t is in ourselves that we are thus and thus.--
Othello.

"So, so, my little one, don't let me disturb you. Madam, dare I venture
to hope your acceptance of this fruit? I chose it myself, and I am somewhat
of a judge. Oh! Glendower, here is the pamphlet you wished to see."

With
this salutation, Crauford drew his chair to the table by which Glendower
sat, and entered into conversation with his purposed victim. A comely
and a pleasing countenance had Richard Crauford! the lonely light
of the room fell upon a face which, though forty years of guile had gone
over it, was as fair and unwrinkled as a boy's. Small, well- cut
features; a blooming complexion; eyes of the lightest blue; a forehead
high, though narrow; and a mouth from which the smile was never absent,--these,
joined to a manner at once soft and confident, and an elegant though
unaffected study of dress, gave to Crauford a personal appearance
well suited to aid the effect of his hypocritical and dissembling
mind.

"Well, my friend," said he, "always at your books, eh? Ah! it is a happy taste; would that I had cultivated
it more; but we who are condemned to business have little leisure to follow our own inclinations.
It is only on Sundays that I have time to read; and then (to say
truth) I am an old-fashioned man, whom the gayer part of the world
laughs at, and then I am too occupied with the Book of Books to think
of any less important study."

Not deeming that a peculiar reply was required to this pious speech,
Glendower did not take that advantage of Crauford's pause which it
was evidently intended that he should.

With a glance towards the student's wife, our mercantile friend continued: "I did once--once in my
young dreams--intend that whenever I married I would relinquish
a profession for which, after all, I am but little calculated.

I pictured to myself a country retreat, well stored with books; and having concentrated in one
home all the attractions which would have tempted my thoughts abroad,
I had designed to surrender myself solely to those studies which, I lament
to say, were but ill attended to in my earlier education.

But--but" (here Mr. Crauford sighed deeply, and averted his face) "fate
willed it otherwise!"

Whatever reply of sympathetic admiration or condolence Glendower might have made was interrupted
by one of those sudden and overpowering attacks of faintness which
had of late seized the delicate and declining health of his wife.

He rose, and leaned over her with a fondness and alarm which curled the lip of
his visitor.

"Thus it is," said Crauford to himself, "with weak minds, under the influence
of habit. The love of lust becomes the love of custom, and the last
is as strong as the first."

When--she had recovered, she rose, and (with her child) retired to rest,
the only restorative she ever found effectual for her complaint.

Glendower went with her, and, after having seen her eyes, which swam with tears of gratitude at his
love, close in the seeming slumber she affected in order to release him from his watch, he returned
to Crauford. He found that gentleman leaning against the chimney-piece with folded arms, and
apparently immersed in thought. A very good opportunity had Glendower's
absence afforded to a man whose boast it was never to lose one. Looking
over the papers on the table, he had seen and possessed himself of
the address of the bookseller the student dealt with.

"So much for business, now for philanthropy," said Mr. Crauford,
in his favorite antithetical phrase, throwing himself in his attitude
against the chimney-piece.

As Glendower entered, Crauford started from his revery, and with a
melancholy air and pensive voice said,--

"Alas, my friend, when I look upon this humble apartment, the weak
health of your unequalled wife, your obscurity, your misfortunes;
when I look upon these, and contrast them with your mind, your talents,
and all that you were born and fitted for, I cannot but feel tempted
to believe with those who imagine the pursuit of virtue a chimera,
and who justify their own worldly policy by the example of all their
kind."

"Virtue," said Glendower, "would indeed be a chimera, did it require support
from those whom you have cited."

"True,--most true," answered Crauford, somewhat disconcerted in reality,
though not in appearance; "and yet, strange as it may seem, I have known
some of those persons very good, admirably good men.

They were extremely moral and religious: they only played the great game for worldly advantage upon the
same terms as the other players; nay, they never made a move in it
without most fervently and sincerely praying for divine assistance."

"I readily believe you," said Glendower, who always, if possible,
avoided a controversy: "the easiest person to deceive is one's own self."

"Admirably
said," answered Crauford, who thought it nevertheless one of the
most foolish observations he had ever heard, "admirably said! and
yet my heart does grieve bitterly for the trials and distresses it
surveys.

One must make excuses for poor human frailty; and one is often placed in such
circumstances as to render it scarcely possible without the grace of God"
(here Crauford lifted up his eyes) "not to be urged, as it were,
into the reasonings and actions of the world."

Not exactly comprehending this observation, and not very closely attending
to it, Glendower merely bowed, as in assent, and Crauford continued,--

"I
remember a remarkable instance of this truth.

One of my partner's clerks had, through misfortune or imprudence, fallen
into the greatest distress. His wife, his children (he had a numerous family),
were on the literal and absolute verge of starvation. Another clerk, taking advantage
of these circumstances, communicated to the distressed man a plan
for defrauding his employer.

The poor fellow yielded to the temptation, and was at last discovered. I spoke to him myself, for I was interested
in his fate, and had always esteemed him.

'What,' said I, 'was your motive for this fraud?' 'My duty!' answered the
man, fervently; 'my duty!

Was
I to suffer my wife, my children, to starve before my face, when
I could save them at a little personal risk? No: my duty forbade it!'
and in truth, Glendower, there was something very plausible in this manner
of putting the question."

"You might, in answering it," said Glendower, "have put the point in a manner equally plausible and more
true: was he to commit a great crime against the millions connected by social order, for the sake of
serving a single family, and that his own?"

"Quite right," answered Crauford: "that was just the point of view in which I did put it; but the man,
who was something of a reasoner, replied, 'Public law is instituted for public happiness. Now
if mine and my children's happiness is infinitely and immeasurably more served by this comparatively
petty fraud than my employer's is advanced by my abstaining from,
or injured by my committing it, why, the origin of law itself allows
me to do it.' What say you to that, Glendower?

It is something in your Utilitarian, or, as you term it, Epicurean [See
the article on Mr. Moore's "Epicurean" in the "Westminster Review."
Though the strictures on that work are harsh and unjust, yet the part
relating to the real philosophy of Epicurus is one of the most masterly
things in criticism.] principle; is it not?" and Crauford, shading his
eyes, as if from the light, watched narrowly Glendower's countenance,
while he concealed his own.

"Poor fool!" said Glendower; "the man was ignorant of the first lesson
in his moral primer. Did he not know that no rule is to be applied
to a peculiar instance, but extended to its most general bearings?
Is it necessary even to observe that the particular consequence of
fraud in this man might, it is true, be but the ridding his employer
of superfluities, scarcely missed, for the relief of most urgent want
in two or three individuals; but the general consequences of fraud
and treachery would be the disorganization of all society? Do not
think, therefore, that this man was a disciple of my, or of any, system
of morality." It was quite evident
that he was master of the situation. The old man took the pipe from his mouth and replied in
a deep hollow voice that he was glad to see us, and that, in consideration of our wealth, fame,
and renowned wisdom, he would waive all ceremony and beg us to be seated. We sat down cross-legged
on cushions before him, and as near as we could get, so that it seemed as if we three were
performing some sacred rite of which the object was the tall hookah that stood in the centre
of our triangle.

Being seated, Isaacs addressed the prince, still in Hindustani, and said that the splendour
of his sublime majesty, which was like the sun dispelling the clouds, so overcame him with
fear and trembling, that he humbly implored permission to make use of the Persian tongue, which,
he was aware, the lord of boundless wisdom spoke with even greater ease than himself.

Without waiting for an answer, and with no perceptible manifestation of any such "fear and
trembling" as he professed, Isaacs at once began to speak in his native tongue, and dropping
all forms of ceremony or circumlocution plunged boldly into business. He did not hesitate to
explain to the maharajah the strength of his position, dwelling on the fact that, by a word
to the English of the whereabouts of Shere Ali, he could plunge Baithopoor into hopeless and
endless entanglements, to which there could be but one issue--absorption into the British Râj.
He dwelt on the large sums the maharajah owed him for assistance lent during the late famine,
and he skilfully produced the impression that he wanted the money down, then and there.

"If your majesty should refuse to satisfy my just claims, I have ample weapons by which to
satisfy them for myself, and no considerations of mercy or pity for your majesty will tempt
me to abate one rupee in the account of your indebtedness, which, as you well know, is not
swelled by any usurious interest. You could not have borrowed the money on such easy terms
from any bank in India or England, and if I have been merciful hitherto, I will be so no longer.
What saith the Apostle of Allah? 'Verily, life for life, and eye for eye, and nose for nose,
and ear for ear, and tooth for tooth, and for wounding retaliation.' And the time of your promise
is expired and you shall pay me. And is not the wise Frank, who sitteth at my right hand, the
ready writer, who giveth to the public every day a new book to read, the paper of news, Khabar-i-Khagaz
wherein are written the misdeeds of the wicked, and the dealings of the fraudulent and the
unwary receive their just reward? And think you he will not make a great writing, several columns
in length, and deliver it to the devils that perform his bidding, and shall they not multiply
what he hath written, and sow it broadcast over the British Râj for the minor consideration
of one anna a copy, that all shall see how the Maharajah of Baithopoor doth scandalously repudiate
his debts, and harbour traitors to the Râj in his palace?"

Isaacs said all this in a solemn and impressive manner, calculated to inspire awe and terror
in the soul of the unhappy debtor. As for the maharajah, the cold sweat stood on his face,
and at the last words his anxiety was so great that the long fingers uncurled spasmodically
and the jewelled mouthpiece fell back, as the head of a snake, among the silken coils of the
tube at his feet. Instantly, on feeling the grasping hand empty, his majesty, with more alacrity
than I would have expected, darted forward with outstretched claws, as a hawk on his prey,
and seizing the glittering thing returned it to his lips with a look of evident relief. It
was habit, of course, for we were not exactly the men to plunder him of his toy, but there
was a fierceness about the whole action that spoke of the real miser. Then there was silence
for a moment. The old man was evidently greatly impressed by the perils of his situation. Isaacs
continued.

"Your majesty well perceives that you have surrounded yourself with dangers on all sides. No
danger threatens me. I could buy you and Baithopoor to-morrow if I chose. But I am a just man.
When the prophet, whose name be blessed, saith that we shall have eye for eye, and nose for
nose, and for wounding retaliation, he saith also that 'he that remitteth the same as alms
it shall be an atonement unto him.' Now your majesty is a hard man, and I well know that if
I force you to pay me now you will cruelly tax and oppress your subjects to refill your coffers. I said
to myself, "but I can never bear his society; I shall never be able to endure his voice; it would kill
me. What a pity it is!" I am very sensible of imperfections, and especially of painful sounds--and
the voice of the stranger was excruciating; it was intolerably shrill, harsh and discordant; of the
most cruel intension--it was perpetual, and without any remission--it excoriated the ears. He
continued to discourse of chemistry, sometimes sitting, sometimes standing before the fire, and
sometimes pacing about the room; and when one of the innumerable clocks
that speak in various notes during the day and the night at Oxford,
proclaimed a quarter to seven, he said suddenly that he must go to a
lecture on mineralogy, and declared enthusiastically that he expected
to derive much pleasure and instruction from it.

I am ashamed to own that the cruel voice made me hesitate for a moment; but it was impossible to
omit so indispensable a civility--I invited him to return to tea; he gladly assented, promised
that he would not be absent long, snatched his cap, hurried out of the room, and I heard his
footsteps, as he ran through the silent quadrangle, and afterwards along the High-street. An hour
soon elapsed, whilst the table was cleared, and the tea was made, and I again heard the footsteps
of one running quickly. My guest suddenly burst into the room, threw down his cap, and as he stood
shivering and chafing his hands over the fire, he declared how much he had been disappointed in
the lecture. Few persons attended; it was dull and languid, and he was resolved never to go to
another.

"I went away, indeed," he added, with an arch look and in a shrill whisper, coming close to me
as he spoke--"I went away, indeed, before the lecture was finished. I stole away; for it was so
stupid, and I was so cold, that my teeth chattered. The Professor saw me, and appeared to be
displeased. I thought I could have got out without being perceived; but I struck my knee against
a bench, and made a noise, and he looked at me. I am determined that he shall never see me
again."

"What did the man talk about?

"About stones! about stones!" he answered, with a downcast look and
in a melancholy tone, as if about to say something excessively profound.

"About stones!--stones, stones, stones!--nothing but stones!--and so drily.
It was wonderfully tiresome--and stones are not interesting things
in themselves!"

New Monthly Magazine.

* * * * *

WAR SONG,

FOR THE ARMY TO BE SENT AGAINST THE EMPEROR OF CHINA.

Come, tie on your bonnet, your shawl, and your boa! Each proud virgin amazon, onward with me!
Come, rouse for the fight, all ye maids who adore[25] The flavour of
Twankay, Souchong, or Bohea!

Come, clatter the tea-cups, and brandish each spoon, Beat loudly the tea-tray, the kettle, and
urn; No more for the lover or sweet honey-moon, But for Twankay and war let your soft bosoms
burn!

Shall a petitcoat savage--the horrible bore-- Infringe on our rights, and deny
us our tea? No, no! by the gown which my grandmother wore.

We'll smother the wretch in a chest of Bohea!

Come, launch, by brave maidens, each tea-chest canoe, And spread out
your large Canton crapes to the air; The kettle sings muster-call--hark!
the cats mew!

"Young Hyson"'s the word, the "delight of the
fair!"

Great Twining a tea-wreath shall twine for us all-- The fairest of
females looks far more divine at tea; If we conquer, we'll drink
twenty cups; if we fall, Why--"nec possum vivere cum te, nec sine te."

Twenty cups! think of Johnson, when kind Mrs. Thrale Filled him fifty
at least, and he wished they were bowls. With ardour like his, which
among ye can fail? Come, Doctor, and kindle your thirst in our souls!

Then
onward, brave maidens, push off from the coast, For such brogueless
tyrants we care not a pin; But do not forget, my fair tea-drinking
host, A stout Witney blanket to toss the wretch in!

Oh! the plunder
of Pekin! what silks and what shawls! The Chinese, in spite of themselves,
shall be free: For, we'll bombard the city with hot force-meat balls,
And blow up their warriors with gunpowder tea!

Then tie on your bonnet,
your shawl, and your boa, And with war-cry of "Hyson-dust!" onward
with me; Come, brandish your tea-spoons, ye maids who adore The flavour
of Twankay, Souchong, or Bohea!

Monthly Magazine. The duration of our private interview with
the maharajah had given them an immense idea of our importance. We had come at four and it
was now nearly five. The long pauses and the Persian circumlocutions had occupied a good deal
of time.

"You do not seem to have needed my counsel or assistance much," I said. "With such an armoury
of weapons you could manage half-a-dozen maharajahs."

"Yes--perhaps so. But I have strong reasons for wishing this affair quickly over, and the editor
of a daily paper is a thing of terror to a native prince; you must have seen that."

"What do you mean to do with your man when he is safely in your hands, if it is not an indiscreet
question?"

"Do with him?" asked Isaacs with some astonishment. "Is it possible you have not guessed? He
is a brave man, and a true believer. I will give him money and letters, that he may make his
way to Baghdad, or wherever he will be safe. He shall depart in peace, and be as free as air."

I had half suspected my friend of some such generous intention, but he had played his part
of unrelenting hardness so well in our late interview with the Hindoo prince that it seemed
incomprehensible that a man should be so pitiless and so kind on the same day. We learn, for instance,
that Mr. Angus McToddie, until recently Professor of Physics at the John Walker University,
N.B., has vacated that post on his appointment as Experimental Adviser to the British Constitutional
Whisky Manufacturers' Association.

Past and present alumni of Tonypandy will learn with regret that the University
is to lose the services of its Professor of Live Languages, Mr. O.
Evans, who is about to assume the responsible and highly-remunerated
position of Director of Research to the Billingsgate Fishporters'
Self-Help Society.

       

The Egregius Professor of Ancient History at Giggleswick University will shortly take up his
duties as Editor of Chestnuts, the new comic weekly.

Professor Ernest Grubb, who for many years has adorned the Chair of Entomology at Durdleham,
is about to enter the dramatic sphere as stage-manager to a well-known troupe of performing
insects.

Another recruit to Stage enterprise is Professor Seymour Legge, who has
been appointed Chief Investigator to the Beauty Chorus Providers'
Corporation.

Mr. Legge was formerly Professor of Comparative Anatomy at Ballycorp.

*
* * * *

SATURDAYS.

Now has the soljer handed in his pack, And "Peace on earth, goodwill
to all" been sung; I've got a pension and my ole job back-- Me, with
my right leg gawn and half a lung; But, Lord!

I'd give my bit o' buckshee pay And my gratuity in honest Brads To go down to the field nex'
Saturday And have a game o' football with the lads.

It's Saturdays as does it. In the week It's not too bad; there's cinemas and things; But I gets up
against it, so to speak, When half-day-off comes round again and brings The smell o' mud an' grass
an' sweating men Back to my mind--there's no denying it; There ain't
much comfort tellin' myself then, "Thank Gawd, I went toot sweet
an' did my bit!"

Oh, yes, I knows I'm lucky, more or less; There's some pore blokes
back there who played the game Until they heard the whistle go, I guess,
For Time an' Time eternal.

All the same It makes me proper down at heart and sick To see the
lads go laughing off to play; I'd sell my bloomin' soul to have a
kick-- But what's the good of talkin', anyway?

* * * * *

"If we were suddenly to be deprived of the fast underground train,
and presented with a sparse service of steam trains in sulphurous
tunnels, the result on our tempers and the rate of our travelling
would be-- well, electric!"--Pall Mall Gazette.

We have tried to think of a less appropriate word than "electric,"
but have failed miserably.

* * * * *

THE RIDING LESSON.

Phillida arrived up to time with her suit-case, a riding-crop and
a large copy of D'AULNOY'S Fairy Tales.

She was not very communicative as we drove out, and I sought
to draw her. You never, by the way, talk down to Phillida. Personally,
I don't believe in talking down to any child; but to employ this method
with Phillida is to court disaster.

"Pleasant journey?" I inquired
casually, flicking Rex's ear.

"'M," responded Phillida in the manner
of a child sucking sweets. Phillida was not sucking sweets, and I
accepted my snub. We drove on for a bit in silence. Phillida removed
her hat, and her bobbed hair went all round her head like a brown
busby. I looked round and was embarrassed to find the straight grey
eyes fixed on my face, the expression in them almost rapturous.

"Jolly
country, isn't it?" I essayed hurriedly, with a comprehensive wave
of my whip.

The preoccupied "'M" was repeated with even less emphasis.

Another
protracted silence. I decided not to interfere with the course of
nature as manifested in one small grey-eyed maiden of eight. Presently
there burst from her ecstatically, "Uncle Dick, is this the one I'm
going to ride?" So that was it. From that moment we got on splendidly.
We discussed, agreed and disagreed over breeds, paces, sizes.

"She looks as if she could stand anything," I said, as just then an open space in the trees
gave us a glimpse of Miss Westonhaugh and Isaacs ambling along and apparently in earnest conversation.
She certainly looked strong enough to go tiger-hunting that minute, as she sat erect but half
turned to the off side, listening to what Isaacs seemed to be saying.

"I hope you will not go and tell her so," said Ghyrkins. "If she gets an idea that the thing
is possible, there will be no holding her. You don't know her. I hardly know her myself. Never
saw her since she was a baby till the other day. Now you are the sort of person to go after
tigers. Why do you not go off with my nephew and Mr. Isaacs and Kildare, and kill as many of
them as you like?"

"I have no objection, I am sure. I suppose the Howler could spare me for a fortnight, now that
I have converted the Press Commissioner, your new deus ex machina for the obstruction of news.
What a motley party we should be. Let me see.--a Bombay Civil Servant, an Irish nobleman, a
Persian millionaire, and a Yankee newspaper man. By Jove! add to that a famous Revenue Commissioner
and a reigning beauty, and the sextett is complete." Mr. Ghyrkins looked pleased at the gross
flattery of himself. I recollected suddenly that, though he was far from famous as a revenue
commissioner, I had read of some good shooting he had done in his younger days. Here was a chance.

"Besides, Mr. Ghyrkins, a tiger-hunting party would not be the thing without some seasoned
Nimrod to advise and direct us. Who so fitted for the post as the man of many a chase, the
companion of Maori, the slayer of the twelve foot tiger in the Nepaul hills in 1861?"

"You have a good memory, Mr. Griggs," said the old fellow, perfectly delighted, and now fairly
launched on his favourite topic. "By Gad, sir, if I thought I should get such another chance
I would go with you to-morrow!"

"Why not? there are lots of big man-eaters about," and I incontinently reeled off half a page
of statistics, more or less accurate, about the number of persons destroyed by snakes and wild
beasts in the last year. "Of course most of those deaths were from tigers, and it is a really
good action to kill a few. Many people can see tigers but cannot shoot them, whereas your deeds
of death amongst them ate a matter of history. You really ought to be philanthropic, Mr. Ghyrkins,
and go with us. We might stand a chance of seeing some real sport then."

"Why, really, now that you make me think of it, I believe I should like it amazingly, and I
could leave my niece with Lady--Lady--Stick-in-the-mud; what the deuce is her name? The wife
of the Chief Justice, you know. You ought to know, really--I never remember names much;" he
jerked out his sentences irately.

"Certainly, Lady Smith-Tompkins, you mean. Yes, you might do that--that is, if Miss Westonhaugh
has had the measles, and is not afraid of them. I heard this morning that three of the little
Smith-Tompkinses had them quite badly."

"You don't say so! Well, well, we shall find some one else, no doubt."

I was certain that at that very moment Isaacs and Miss Westonhaugh were planning the whole
expedition, and so I returned to the question of sport and inquired where we should go. This
led to considerable discussion, and before we arrived at Mr. Ghyrkins' bungalow--still in the
same order--it was very clear that the old sportsman had made up his mind to kill one more
tiger at all events; and that, rather than forego the enjoyment of the chase, he would be willing
to take his niece with him. As for the direction of the expedition, that could be decided in
a day or two. It was not the best season for tigers--the early spring is better--but they are
always to be found in the forests of the Terai, the country along the base of the hills, north
of Oude.

When we reached the house it was quite dark, for we had ridden slowly. The light from the open
door, falling across the verandah, showed us Miss Westonhaugh seated in a huge chair, and Isaacs
standing by her side slightly bending, and holding his hat in his hand. They were still talking,
but as we rode up to the lawn and shouted for the saices, Isaacs stood up and looked across
towards us, and their voices ceased. In the neutral country where I was doing this there was a very wicked
and a very plausible man, whom we will call Mr. Abrahams (he has had so many surnames at one time
and another that a new one cannot do him any harm). Rate of exchange stood at the figure of twenty
local francs to the pound sterling, and, as you would put it, other
things were equal.

Mr. Abrahams was obsessed with a desire to see England, entirely for
its own sake.

England, also thinking entirely of itself, was obsessed with a desire not to see Mr. Abrahams.
Mr. Abrahams came to my office, said nice things about me to my face
and begged me to let him go. I said nice things to him, and told him I
would if I could, but I couldn't. He took this to mean I could if I would, but I
wouldn't. He offered me cash down; a cheque for five pounds sterling,
or a note for a hundred francs; I could have it which way I liked.

We should call it for appearance' sake a gift to His Majesty's Government
for the better prosecution of the War.

I thanked him cordially on behalf of His Majesty's Government, but
regretted that I was the victim of circumstances over which I had
no control.

Refusing to believe there could be any circumstances which could stand up against an officer
of my power, position and force, he produced a note for a hundred francs
and put it on my table. He then withdrew, meaning (I gathered) to
return to the attack as soon as the money had sunk in.

From this point on, Mr. Abrahams disappears from the story. It is
not the first or only story, as the police will tell you, from which
Mr. Abrahams has disappeared.

My report to His Majesty's Government did not omit a full mention of the matter of the five pounds
or hundred francs offered.

It begged for instructions as to the disposal of the booty which,
it stated, lay in my "Suspense" basket.

No instructions
could be got, though frequent messages, saying, "May we now have an
answer, please?" were sent. Weeks passed, and every morning I was
tempted by the sight of that note for a hundred francs lying in the basket.
My moral gradually declined. So did the rate of exchange. So did the
barometer.

There came a day, the weather being such that any man who could sin
would sin, when I had in my pocket a cheque made out for five pounds
which I was about to cash for lack of ready francs, and when the rate
of exchange had got as low as nineteen francs to the pound, which
would mean (I rely entirely on the evidence of the bank man) ninety-five
francs for my five pounds.

Charles, I fell. Explaining to myself that Mr. Abrahams had clearly intimated that his gift to the
Government was alternatively a cheque for five pounds or a note for a hundred francs, I put my
cheque into the "Suspense" basket and pocketed the note, thus making
five francs profit.

More weeks passed; no instructions came, and every day I was tempted by the sight of that cheque.
One bright summer morning, when any man who had any goodness in him could not help being good,
and when the rate of exchange had risen to twenty-one, I came to my office full of noble
intentions and hundred franc notes of my own. I may mention in passing that it takes very little
money to fill me up.

I had
just cashed a cheque of my own at the rate of a hundred-and-five francs
to the five pounds, and I felt robust and self-confident and ready
to do it again.

There, on the top of my "Suspense" basket, lay just the very cheque for
the purpose.

That, my Lord, is the case for the prosecution; but you may as well
have the rest of the story.

Instructions or no instructions, I thought it was now time to send the note
for a hundred francs to the Government. The Government said it had no
use for francs in England, sent back the note to me and told me to buy, locally,
an English cheque, which I was to hold, pending further instructions.

It took some time to arrive at this point, and meanwhile rate of exchange had had a serious relapse. The
hundred franc note bought a cheque for five guineas. Not feeling strong
enough to pend further instructions, I at once sent this home.

More haste, less speed: I forgot to endorse it. After another period the
cheque came back, with a memo. The memo said: (1) His Majesty's Government
had no love or use for unendorsed cheques drawn in favour of other people.
(2) His Majesty's Government requested me to endorse the cheque,
cash it locally and put the proceeds to the credit side of my expenses
account.

(3) His Majesty's Government trusted that Mr. Abrahams would not
cause this sort of trouble again.

Whether it was the stimulus given by this memo, or whether it was merely
a case of giving up the drink and becoming a reformed character,
rate of exchange had, I found when I went to carry out orders, risen
to and stuck at the dizzy height of twenty-three francs and twenty
centimes to the pound.

His Majesty's Government has drawn in the long run (the very long run) the sum of one hundred
and twenty-one francs and eighty centimes, thus making more than twice as heavy a profit as
I had. And yet you have the impudence to tell me that I am guilty
of embezzlement, with corruption.

I can only say I should be ashamed to be a lawyer.

I can only add that I should be happy to be His Majesty's Government.

With
all best wishes and enclosing stamps for eighty centimes as representing
your share of the proceeds (including fee for opinion),

I remain,

Yours
sincerely, HENRY.

* * * * *

PIVOTS.

"Bermondsey Bill," who used to be The idol of the N.S.C., Began to fight
in 17-- P.T. instructor, very keen, Teaching recruits to jab the
faces Of dummy Germans at the bases.

But Bill, I see, is booked to box Tomkins, the Terror of the Docks,
And nobody should feel surprised That Bill has been demobilised.

Although the War upset, I fear, John Jones's pacifist career, He did
not murmur or repine, But hurried to the nearest mine, And stuck it till
the "refugees" Were all transplanted overseas. In France he saw some
dreadful scenes As salesman in E.F. canteens; But when the Bosch
had been chastised He was at once demobilised.

A most diverting person, Brown-- The "star" comedian in Town, And, since he
donned a posh Sam B., O.C. Amusements, L. of C. He steadfastly refused
to whine Because he never saw the Line, But carried on, stout fellow,
and Is now at home, I understand.

A pivot so well-paid and prized Just had to be demobilised.

* * * * *

* *
* * *

OCCUPIED OPERA.

It was a chilly morning early in January. The Opera at Cologne had just
become recognised as the principal attraction of the place, and as yet there
was no suave interpreter in attendance to mediate between the queue
of representatives of Britain's military power and the German clerk
in the box-office.

I suppose that in some handsome suite of apartments in one of the
best hotels in Cologne an exalted personage with red trimmings spends
his whole time--office hours, of course--in devising fresh schemes
for the sale and distribution of opera tickets to the British troops.

The demand for them is always far in excess of the number reserved for
the military, and fresh schemes for their distribution are inaugurated
every week.

We were still in the days when officers and men of every rank and
every branch of the Army of Occupation used to wait in a democratic
queue for the box-office to open at 10 A.M. It was 9.15 when I took
up my position, beaten a short neck by a very young and haughty officer,
a Second-Lieutenant of the Blankshires.

There is always a cold wind round that corner of the Rudolfplatz,
but every officer and every O.R. turned up his coat-collar, stamped
his feet and determined to stick it.

After all, from the time when he waits his turn to receive his first suit of khaki, every soldier
is inured to standing in queues, and when he has so often stood half-an-hour in a queue for the
chance of a penny bowl of Y.M.C.A. tea he will think nothing of standing for an hour for a seat
at the Opera.

For the officers no doubt the situation had the attraction of novelty.

By
the time the office opened the queue reached from the Opera House steps
nearly to the tramway Haltestelle, and much speculation was going on as to how
many would be sent empty away. Inch by inch we moved forward, mounted
the steps one by one, and came within the relative warmth of the
vestibule.

At last the weary waiting-time was over; the young subaltern stepped before the guichet and, pointing
to a handbill, demanded in a loud and dignified voice a ticket for
next Monday's performance of "KEINE VORSTELLUNG!"

How shall I describe the painful scene that followed--a scene in which, as a mere Tommy, I had too much discipline
to intervene? In vain the obsequious purveyor of tickets offered a selection of the world's most
popular and celebrated operas for any other day but Monday. Nothing would do for my officer
but Keine Vorstellung. Indeed, as he explained in his best and loudest English, Monday was his only free
evening. Keine Vorstellung he wanted and Keine Vorstellung he must have. Followed reiteration,
expostulation, vituperation in yet louder English than before, and when at last he turned away
without his ticket he was still convinced that the authority of the
Britische Besatzung had been outraged and defied by the man behind
the window.

I often wonder what he said when the precise meaning of those two mystic words was revealed, to him. I like
to think that it may have happened at the Requisition Office, whither he had gone to procure an order to compel
that recalcitrant square-head to supply him with the ticket so unwarrantably
withheld.

* * * * *

"Wanted a good Cook; kitchen-maid kept; small fairy."--Provincial Paper.

It
is pleasant to come upon a really appreciative mistress.

* * * * *

* * * * *

PTERO-DACTYLS.

(OF THE PIONEERS OF THE AIR.)

Dædalus, once in the island of Crete, Finding his host tried to limit
his scenery, Foiled in his efforts to flee on his feet, Went and
invented some flying machinery; Then, when he thought it was time
to make tracks Free from pursuit, for he felt he could dodge any,
Brought out his wings, which he fastened with wax, Fitting another
pair on to his progeny; So, if the legend to credence can wheedle
us, First of air-pilots was old Father Dædalus.

Just a few kicks and they're off in full sail (Science of old wasn't
hard on her votary, So little mention you find in the tale Made of
propeller or joy-stick or rotary); Silently skimming along in the
air Spoke the paternal and prototype pioneer, "Mind that your altitude's
low, and beware Fiery Phoebus you don't go and fly a-near!"

Cautious
the counsel, but Icarus flouted it, Flew in the face of his father and
scouted it.

Lifting his nose in the eye of the sun, Waved he his hand to his wary
progenitor; Higher and higher he banked and he spun, Mounting aloft
as away from his ken he tore.

"Who's this," said Phoebus, "my kingdom affronts? Doubtless, young fellow, your conduct
you think witty; I'll find a method of stopping your stunts; Dear
shall you pay for precocious propinquity."

Forth shot his beams ere the flier detected 'em, Melting the wax on
his wings (that connected 'em).

Down to the depths of the bottomless sea Icarus crashed with a lightning
celerity, Leaving a name for the ages to be. "Ha!" chortled Phoebus,
"that comes of temerity."

See from the sequel the fitness of things: Nearly forgotten this
early adventure is; Phoebus is beaten; Time's whirligig brings Still
its revenge in the course of the centuries. Over the sky, from the east
to the west of it, Man has decidedly now got the best of it.

R.A.F.

* * * * *

TO PSYCHICAL MEDIUMS.

Extract from a tradesman's circular:--

"Mr. ----, who has just been disembodied, hopes to call quite shortly
and will, we trust, be allowed to book forward your Spring term requirements."

*
* * * *

"A letter sent by a Government Department to the Hornsey Borough Council
was so long that it was not read at all."--Daily Paper.

But if you think that will discourage them you don't know our bureaucrats.

*
* * * *

* * * * *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, March 3rd.--The terrors of the Statute of Anne having been temporarily
removed, Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN headed a little queue of Ministers
coming up to take the Oath.

How the already crowded Treasury Bench is to accommodate the new-comers it is difficult to see, but
presumably a system of reliefs will be arranged.

The present epidemic was discussed by Captain NEWMAN and Sir JOHN REES who
were not agreed as to whether port is a "preventative" or a "preventive"
of influenza, but were unanimous in thinking that far too little of
it was available.

On bearing that the liability of agricultural shows to the Entertainment Tax depended on whether instruction was
combined with amusement, Colonel WEIGALL pertinently asked who was
to decide where amusement ends and education begins.

Talking of education, I shall in future, following Mr. H.A.L. FISHER,
try to pronounce Thibetan with a long "e," but, I hesitate, even on
the authority of the MINISTER OF EDUCATION, to speak of "Febuary."

Since Mr. CHURCHILL became War Minister he has developed a remarkable
likeness to Lord HALDANE.

Happily the resemblance extends only to the rondeurs, and not to the
occasional longueurs, of his predecessor. How long his Lordship would
have taken to elucidate the present position and future composition
of the British Army I cannot estimate, but it would have been several
hours.

Mr. CHURCHILL'S survey of the World, from Siberia to the Rhine, occupied a brief sixty minutes and included
some attractive speculations on the kind of Army we should need in
the future.

He hopes, among other things, for an improved General Staff, composed
of officers acquainted with war in all its phases--land, sea and
air--who could give the Cabinet expert advice on war as a whole, and
save it (we inferred) from such hesitations as led to the glorious
tragedy of Gallipoli.

"I thought we had given up war," interjected Mr. HOGGE; and other
Members twitted the Minister with having left out of his account the
League of Nations.

But Mr. CHURCHILL, in reply, while expressing the utmost respect
for the League, pointed out that it was not yet in being, and that
meanwhile Britain must continue to be a strong armed Power.

A number of maiden speeches were delivered during the evening. The
SPEAKER was not in the Chair, but I hope he was somewhere in the precincts
to hear the cheers which greeted the initial effort--commendably brief
and to the point--of his son, Major LOWTHER, on the subject of courts-martial.

Tuesday,

March 4th.--Lord SINHA OF RAIPUR delivered his maiden speech in a
style which promises well for his Parliamentary career.

Accepting the dictum of Lord SYDENHAM that frankness is essential in Indian affairs, he proceeded
to act upon it by administering a dignified rebuke to his lordship for having suggested that one of
the periodical affrays between Mahomedans and Hindoos was occasioned by
the MONTAGU-CHELMSFORD report.

No fewer than forty-six questions were addressed to the War Office. But
obviously this sort of thing cannot go on.

The SECRETARY OF STATE cannot devote so much of his valuable time to satisfying Parliamentary
curiosity. Accordingly he has appointed a "Members' friend" to hear complaints and answer questions.
Mr. McCALLUM SCOTT has been rewarded for his consistent admiration--did
he not publish a eulogy of "Winston Churchill in Peace and War" when
his hero's fortunes were temporarily clouded?--and on two days a week
will have the privilege of acting as lightning-conductor.

The most intriguing detail in the story of DE VALERA'S escape from Lincoln
Gaol was the beguilement of the guards by two sweet girl-graduates
from Dublin.

But this afternoon Mr. SHORTT curtly stated--with a twinkle in his eye--that the sentries disclaimed
all knowledge of the ladies. Still, is this conclusive?

Wednesday, March 5th.--The friends of the new LORD CHANCELLOR were becoming anxious lest his natural gaiety
should be permanently suppressed by the necessity of keeping up the dignity of the Woolsack. They need be
under no further apprehensions. A motion in favour of Home Rule All Round, introduced by Lord BRASSEY
and supported by Lord SELBORNE, furnished him with his chance. Metaphorically flinging his full-bottomed
wig on to the floor he skipped into the arena, executed a war-dance
around his amazed victims, and, before they knew where they were, got
their heads into Chancery and knocked them together until they were
compelled to give in. Talk of the congestion of Parliament! Why, now
that party spirit was in abeyance, Bills went through with incredible
rapidity.

As for the supposed ambitions of the "little nations," what, he asked, did Scotsmen and Welshmen
care about subordinate Parliaments when they were governing the whole Empire? If the advocates of the
proposal really believed in it let them go out as missionaries into
the wilderness, and, if they escaped the proverbial fate of missionaries, convert
the heathen voters to their creed.

Thereupon Lord BRASSEY, his brow bloody but unbowed, intimated that "a time would come," and meanwhile
withdrew his motion.

At Question-time Mr. BONAR LAW indignantly denied a newspaper rumour
from Paris that the British delegates had decided not to demand any
money-indemnity from Germany, but took occasion later on to discount
somewhat freely the election-promises made on this subject by himself
and other Ministers.

It would be better, he implied, to accept a composition than to put the debtor into the Bankruptcy Court.
This is common sense, no doubt, always provided that the Hun does not misinterpret his reprieve, and, instead
of laying golden eggs for our benefit, resume the practice of the
goose-step. If every man would ask himself, "What can I do for the
State?" instead of "What can I get out of it?" we might yet emerge
safely from our financial straits.

History does not always repeat itself. The first JOSIAH WEDGWOOD enhanced his fame by a faithful
reproduction of the Portland Vase. JOSIAH the Second, essaying a fancy
portrait of the present Duke of PORTLAND (in his capacity of a coal-owner),
was less fortunate in the likeness, and this afternoon handsomely
withdrew it from circulation.

The Second Reading of the new Military Service Bill brought a storm of accusations against the Government
for having broken its election-pledges. Had not the PRIME MINISTER and his colleagues gone to the
country on a cry of "No Conscription"? The Member for Derby was particularly
emphatic in his denunciation; but Mr. CHURCHILL effectively countered him by
quoting Mr. THOMAS'S own translation of the pledges in question as
meaning "Militarism and Conscription."

A little rift within the Coalition lute was revealed when Mr. SHAW
remarked that some people seemed to want "to make this country a fit
place for casuists to live in;" but the House as a whole took the
view that without an assured peace it would be no place for any one,
and passed the Second Reading by an overwhelming majority.

* * * * *

* * * * *

THE SENTINELS.

Up and down the nurs'ry stair All through the night There are Fairy Sentinels Watching till it's light;
If they ever went to sleep The Big Clock would tell; But, Left-Right! Left-Right! They know their duty
well; I needn't mind a Bogey or a Giant or a Bear, The Sentinels are
watching on the nurs'ry stair!

Up and down the nurs'ry stair All through the day There the Fairy
Sentinels Sleep the time away; If you were to wake them up, Think
how tired they'd be, So Tip-toe!

Tip-toe! Go upstairs quietly. Yes, that's the very reason we have carpets on the stair-- The Sentinels
are sleeping, and we must take care.

* * * * *

* * * * *

THE SPACE PROBLEM.

The sad queues shiver in the drains And do not get upon the bus; Men battle
round successive trains, And each is yet more populous; Twelve times a week I pay
the fare, But know not when I last sat down; It almost looks as if there
were Too many people in the town.

I know not where they all may dwell; I know my lease is up in May;
I know I said, "Oh, very well, I'll take a house down Dorking way;"

I scoured the spacious countryside, I found no residence to spare, And it is not to be denied There are
too many people there.

They say the birth-rate's sadly low; They
say the death-rate tends to soar; So how we manage I don't know To
go on growing more and more; Let statistology prefer To think the
race is nice and small, But how do all these crowds occur, And who
the dickens are they all?

Where do they come from? Where on earth
In olden days did they reside, When there was really lots of birth
And hardly anybody died? Where had this multitude its lair? Some pleasant
spot, I make no doubt; I only wish they'd go back there And leave
me room to move about;

And leave some little house for me In any
shire, in any town, Or, otherwise, myself must flee And build a dug-out
in a down; If none may settle on the land, Yet might one settle underground
(Provided people understand They must not come and dig all round).

There
will I dwell (alone) till death And soothe my crowd-corroded soul;
And, when I breathe my latest breath, Let no man move me from my hole;
Let but a little earth be cast, And someone write above the tomb:
"Here had the poet peace at last; Here only had he elbow-room."

A.P.H.

*
* * * *

THE SWEET-SHOP.

It was a mean street somewhere in the wilderness
of Fulham. How I got there I don't exactly know; all that I am clear
about is that I was trying, on insufficient data, to make a short
cut. Twilight was falling, there was a slight drizzle of rain and
I told myself that I had stumbled on the drabbest bit of all London.

Here
and there, breaking the monotony of dark house-fronts, were little
isolated shops, which gave a touch of colour to the drabness. I paused
before one of them, through whose small and dim window a light shed
a melancholy beam upon the pavement. Nothing seemed to be sold there,
for the window was occupied by empty glass jars, bearing such labels
as "peppermint rock," "pear drops" and "bull's-eyes." Apparently the
shop had sold out.

I was on the point of turning away when I noticed
that someone was moving about inside, and presently an ancient dame
began to take certain jars from the window and fill them with sweets
from boxes on the counter. Evidently a new stock had just arrived.
Then I remembered that sweets had been "freed."

A little girl stopped
beside me, stared through the window and then ran off at top speed.
Within a couple of minutes half-a-dozen youngsters were peering into
the shop, and a pair of them marched in, consulting earnestly as they
went. The news spread; more children arrived. I distributed a largesse
of pennies which gave me a popularity I have never achieved before.
The street seemed to take on a different aspect. I almost liked it.

*
* * * *

AN OLD DOG.

There can be no doubt about it. Not merely is
Soo-ti getting to be an old dog, but he has already got there. He
is an old dog. Yet the change in the case of this beloved little Pekinese
has been so gradual that until it was accomplished few of us noticed
it. Yesterday, as it seemed, Soo-ti was a young dog, capable of holding
his own for frolics and spirits with any Pekinese that ever owned
the crown of the road and refused to stir from it though all the hooters
of Europe endeavoured to blast him off it. To-day he is still a challenger
of motor-cars; but he hurls his defiance with less assurance and has
been seen to retire before the advance of a motor-bicycle.

Moreover,
there are other signs of what his master calls, let us hope with accuracy,
a cruda viridisque senectus. Quite a short time ago his muzzle, like
the rest of him, was as black as ebony. He sat down again among the cushions, and putting off his slippers,
curled himself comfortably together for a chat.

"What do you think of Ram Lal?" he asked, when Narain had brought hookahs and sherbet.

"My dear fellow, I have hardly made up my mind what to think. I have not altogether recovered
from my astonishment. I confess that there was nothing startling about his manner or his person.
He behaved and talked like a well educated native, in utter contrast to the amazing things
he said, and to his unprecedented mode of leave-taking. It would have seemed more natural--I
would say, more fitting--if he had appeared in the classic dress of an astrologer, surrounded
with zodiacs, and blue lights, and black cats. Why do you suppose he wants you to abandon the
tiger-hunt?"

"I cannot tell. Perhaps he thinks something may happen to me to prevent my keeping the other
engagement. Perhaps he does not approve----" he stopped, as if not wanting to approach the
subject of Ram Lal's disapprobation. "I intend, nevertheless, that the expedition come off,
and I mean, moreover, to have a very good time, and to kill a tiger if I see one."

"I thought he seemed immensely pleased at your conversion, as he calls it. He said that your
newly acquired belief in woman was a step towards a better understanding of life."

"Of the world, he said," answered-Isaacs, correcting me. "There is a great difference between
the 'world' and 'life.' The one is a finite, the other an infinite expression. I believe, from
what I have learned of Ram Lal, that the ultimate object of the adepts is happiness, only to
be attained by wisdom, and I apprehend that by wisdom they mean a knowledge of the world in
the broadest sense of the word. The world to them is a great repository of facts, physical
and social, of which they propose to acquire a specific knowledge by transcendental methods.
If that seems to you a contradiction of terms, I will try and express myself better. If you
understand me, I am satisfied. Of course I use transcendental in the sense in which it is applied
by Western mathematicians to a mode of reasoning which I very imperfectly comprehend, save
that it consists in reaching finite results by an adroit use of the infinite."

"Not a bad definition of transcendental analysis for a man who professes to know nothing about
it," said I. "I would not accuse you of a contradiction of terms, either. I have often thought
that what some people call the 'philosophy of the nineteenth century,' is nothing after all
but the unconscious application of transcendental analysis to the everyday affairs of life.
Consider the theories of Darwin, for instance. What are they but an elaborate application of
the higher calculus? He differentiates men into protoplasms, and integrates protoplasms into
monkeys, and shows the caudal appendage to be the independent variable, a small factor in man,
a large factor in monkey. And has not the idea of successive development supplanted the early
conception of spontaneous perfection? Take an illustration from India--the new system of competition,
which the natives can never understand. Formerly the members of the Civil Service received
their warrants by divine authority, so to speak. They were born perfect, as Aphrodite from
the foam of the sea; they sprang armed and ready from the head of old John Company as Pallas
Athene from the head of Zeus. Now all that is changed; they are selected from a great herd
of candidates by methods of extreme exactness, and when they are chosen they represent the
final result of infinite probabilities for and against their election. They are all exactly
alike; they are a formula for taxation and the administration of justice, and so long as you
do not attempt to use the formula for any other purpose, such, for instance, as political negotiation
or the censorship of the public press, the equation will probably be amenable to solution."

"As I told you," said Isaacs, "I know nothing, or next to nothing, of Western mathematics,
but I have a general idea of the comparison you make. In Asia and in Asiatic minds, there prevails
an idea that knowledge can be assimilated once and for all. That if you can obtain it, you
immediately possess the knowledge of everything--the pass-key that shall unlock every door.
That is the reason of the prolonged fasting and solitary meditation of the ascetics. They believe
that by attenuating the bond between soul and body, the soul can be liberated and can temporarily
identify itself with other objects, animate and inanimate, besides the especial body to which
it belongs, acquiring thus a direct knowledge of those objects, and they believe that this
direct knowledge remains. Western philosophers argue that the only acquaintance a man can have
with bodies external to his mind is that which he acquires by the medium of his bodily sensea--though
thesa, are themselves external to his mind, in the truest sanse. The senses not being absolutely
reliable, knowledge acquired by means of them is not absolutely reliable either. So the ultimate
difference between the Asiatic saint and the European man of science is, that while the former
believes all knowledge to be directly within the grasp of the soul, under certain conditions,
the latter, on the other hand, denies that any knowledge can be absolute, being all obtained
indirectly through a medium not absolutely reliable. The reasoning, by which the Western mind
allows itself to act fearlessly on information which is not (according to its own verdict)
necessarily accurate, depends on a clever use of the infinite in unconsciously calculating
the probabilities of that accuracy--and this entirely falls in with what you said about the
application of transcendental analysis to the affairs of everyday life."

"I see you have entirely comprehended me," I said. "But as for the Asiatic mind--you seem to
deny to it the use of the ealculus of thought, and yet you denned adepts as attempting to acquire
specific knowledge by general and transcendental methods. Here is a real contradiction."

"No; I see no confusion, for I do not include the higher adepts in either class, sinoe they
have the wisdom to make use of the learning and of the methods of both. They seem to me to
be endeavouring, roughly speaking, to combine the two. They believe absolute knowledge attainable,
and they devote much time to the study of nature, in which pursuit they make use of highly
analytical methods. They subdivide phenomena to an extent that would surprise and probably
amuse a Western thinker. They count fourteen distinct colours in the rainbow, and invariably
connect sound, even to the finest degrees, with shades of colour. I could name many other peculiarities
of their mode of studying natural phenomena, which displays a much more minute subdivision
and classification of results than you are accustomed to. But beside all this they consider
that the senses of the normal man are susceptible of infinite refinement, and that upon a greater
or less degree of acquired acuteness of perception the value of his results must depend. To
attain this high degree of sensitiveness, necessary to the perception of very subtle phenomena,
the adepts find it necessary to train their faculties, bodily and mental, by a life of rigid
abstention from all pleasures or indulgences not indispensable in maintaining the relation
between the physical and intellectual powers."

"The common fakir aims at the same thing," I remarked.

"But he does not attain it. The common fakir is an idiot. He may, by fasting and self-torture,
of a kind no adept would approve, sharpen his senses till he can hear and see some sounds and
sights inaudible and invisible to you and me. But his whole system lacks any intellectual basis:
he regards knowledge as something instantaneously attainable when it comes at last; he believes
he will have a vision, and that everything will be revealed to him. His devotion to his object
is admirable, when he is a genuine ascetic and not, as is generally the case, a good-for-nothing
who makes his piety pay for his subsistence; but it is devotion of a very low intellectual
order. The true adept thinks the training of the mind in intellectual pursuits no less necessary
than the moderate and reasonable mortification of the flesh, and higher Buddhism pays as much
attention to the one as to the other."

"Excuse me," said I, "if I make a digression. I think there are two classes of minds commonly
to be found among thinkers all over the world. The one seek to attain to knowledge, the others
strive to acquire it. There is a class of commonplace intellects who regard knowledge of all
kinds in the light of a ladder; one ladder for each science, and the rungs of the ladders are
the successive facts mastered by an effort and remembered in the order they have been passed.
These persons think it is possible to attain to high eminence on one particular ladder, that
is, in one particular science, without having been up any of the other ladders, that is, without
a knowledge of other branches of seience. This is the mind of the plodder, the patient man
who climbs, step by step, in his own unvarying round of thought; not seeing that it is but
the wheel of a treadmill over which he is labouring, and that though every step may pass, and
repass, beneath his toiling feet, he can never obtain a birdseye view of what he is doing,
because his eyes are continually fixed on the step in front."

"But," I continued, as Isaacs assented to my simile by a nod, "there is another class of minds
also. There are persons who regard the whole imaginable and unimaginable knowledge of mankind,
past, present, and future, as a boundless plain over which they hang suspended and can look
down. Immediately beneath them there is a map spread out which represents, in the midst of
the immense desert, the things they themselves know. It is a puzzle map, like those they make
for children, where each piece fits into its appointed place, and will fit nowhere else; every
piece of knowledge acquired fits into the space allotted to it, and when there is a piece,
that is, a fact, wanting, it is still possible to define its extent and shape by the surrounding
portions, though all the details of colour and design are lacking. These are the people who
regard knowledge as a whole, harmonious, when every science and fragment of a science has its
appointed station and is necessary to completeness of perfect knowledge. I hope I have made
clear to you what I mean, though I am conscious of only sketching the outlines of a distinction
which I believe to be fundamental."

"Of course it is fundamental. Broadly, it is the difference between analytic and synthetic
thought; between the subjective and the objective views; between the finite conception of a
limited world and the infinite ideal of perfect wisdom. I understand you perfectly."

"You puzzle me continually, Isaacs. Where did you learn to talk about 'analytic' and 'synthetic,'
and 'subjective' and 'objective,' and transcendental analysis, and so forth?" It seemed so
consistent with his mind that he should understand the use of philosophical terms, that I had
noi realised how odd it was that a man of his purely Oriental education should know anything
about the subject. His very broad application of the words 'analytic' and 'synthetic' to my
pair of illustrations attracted my attention and prompted the question I had asked.

"I read a good deal," he said simply. Then he added in a reflective tone, "I rather think I
have a philosophical mind. The old man who taught me theology in Istamboul when I was a boy
used to talk philosophy to me by the hour, though I do not believe he knew much about it. He
was a plodder, and went up ladders in search of information, like the man you describe. But
he was very patient and good to me; the peace of Allah be with him."

It was late, and soon afterwards we parted for the night. The next day was Sunday, and I had
a heap of unanswered letters to attend to, so we agreed to meet after tiffin and ride together
before dining with Mr. Ghyrkins and the Westonhaughs.

I went to my room and sat a while over a volume of Kant, which I always travel with--a sort
of philosopher's stone on which to whet the mind's tools when they are dulled with boring into
the geological strata of other people's ideas. Mr. Pullwool had not expected that it would; all
that he had hoped for was the half of it; but that half he got.

       

"Did they do it?" breathlessly inquired Tom Dicker of him, when he
returned to the hotel.

"They done it," calmly, yet triumphantly, responded Mr. Pullwool.

"Thunder!" exclaimed the amazed Dicker.

"You are the most extraordinary man! You must have the very Devil in you!"

Instead of being startled by this alarming supposition, Mr. Pullwool looked gratified. People
thus possessed generally do look gratified when the possession is alluded to.

But the inspired lobbyist did not pass his time in wearing an aspect of
satisfaction.

When there was money to get and to spend he could run his fat off almost as fast as if he were
pouring it into candle-moulds. The ring--the famous capital ring of Fastburg--must be seen to,
its fingers greased, and its energy quickened. Before he rolled his apple-dumpling of a figure
into bed that night he had interviewed Smith and Brown the editors, Jones and Robinson the lawyers,
Smooth and Slow the literary characters, various lobbyists, and various
lawgivers.

"Work, gentlemen, and capitalize Fastburg and get your dividends," was his inspiring message to
one and all. He promised Smith and Brown ten dollars for every editorial, and five dollars for
every humbugging telegram, and two dollars for every telling item. Jones and Robinson were to
have five hundred dollars apiece for concurrent legal statements of the claim of the city; Smooth
and Slow, as being merely authors and so not accustomed to obtain much for their labor, got a hundred
dollars between them for working up the case historically. To the lobbyists and members Pullwool
was munificent; it seemed as if those gentlemen could not be paid
enough for their "influence;" as if they alone had that kind of time
which is money.

Only, while dealing liberally with them, the inspired one did not forget himself. A thousand for
Mr. Sly; yes, Mr. Sly was to receipt for a thousand; but he must let half of it stick to the
Pullwool fingers. The same arrangement was made with Mr. Green and Mr. Sharp and Mr. Bummer and Mr.
Pickpurse and Mr. Buncombe. It was a game of snacks, half to you and half to me; and sometimes it
was more than snacks,--a thousand for you two and a thousand for me too.

With such a greasing of the wheels, you may imagine that the machinery of the ring worked to a charm.
In the city and in the legislature and throughout the State there
was the liveliest buzzing and humming and clicking of political wheels
and cranks and cogs that had ever been known in those hitherto pastoral
localities.

The case of Fastburg against Slowburg was put in a hundred ways, and proved as sure as it was
put.

It really seemed to the eager burghers as if they already heard the clink of hammers on a new
State-House and beheld a perpetual legislature sitting on their fences and curbstones until the
edifice should be finished. The great wire-puller and his gang of
stipendiaries were the objects of popular gratitude and adoration.

The landlord of the hotel which Mr. Pullwool patronized actually would not take pay for that gentleman's
board.

"No, sir!" declared this simple Boniface, turning crimson with enthusiasm.
"You are going to put thousands of dollars into my purse, and I'll
take nothing out of yours.

And
any little thing in the way of cigars and whiskey that you want, sir,
why, call for it. It's my treat, sir."

"Thank you, sir," kindly smiled the great man. "That's what I call
the square thing.

Mr.
Boniface, you are a gentleman and a scholar; and I'll mention your
admirable house to my friends. By the way, I shall have to leave you
for a few days."

"Going to leave us!" exclaimed Mr. Boniface, aghast. "I hope not till
this job is put through."

"I must run about a bit," muttered Pullwool,
confidentially. "A little turn through the State, you understand,
to stir up the country districts. Some of the members ain't as hot
as they should be, and I want to set their constituents after them.
Nothing like getting on a few deputations."

"Oh, exactly!" chuckled
Mr. Boniface, ramming his hands into his pockets and cheerfully jingling
a bunch of keys and a penknife for lack of silver. It was strange
indeed that he should actually see the Devil in Mr. Pullwool's eye
and should not have a suspicion that he was in danger of being humbugged
by him. "And your rooms?" he suggested. "How about them?"

I was roused by Kiramat Ali pulling at my foot, as natives will when they are afraid of the
consequences of waking their master. When I opened my eyes he presented a card on a salver,
and explained that the gentleman wanted to see me. I looked, and was rather surprised to see
it was Kildare's card. "Lord Steepleton Kildare, 33d Lancers "--there was no word in pencil,
or any message. I told Kiramat to show the sahib in, wondering why he should call on me. By
Indian etiquette, if there was to be any calling, it was my duty to make the first visit. Before
I had time to think more I heard the clanking of spurs and sabre on the verandah, and the young
man walked in, clad in the full uniform of his regiment. I rose to greet him, and was struck
by his soldierly bearing and straight figure, as I had been at our first meeting. He took off
his bearskin --for he was in the fullest of full dress--and sat down.

"I am so glad to find you at home," he said: "I feared you might have gone to church, like
everybody else in this place."

"No. I went early this morning. I belong to a different persuasion. I suppose you are on your
way to Peterhof?"

"Yes. There is some sort of official reception to somebody,--I forget who,--and we had notice
to turn out. It is a detestable nuisance."

"I should think so."

"Mr. Griggs, I came to ask you about something. You heard of my proposal to get up a tiger-hunt?
Mr. Ghyrkins was speaking of it."

"Yes. He wanted us to go,--Mr. Isaacs and me,--and suggested leaving his niece, Miss Westonhaugh,
with Lady Smith-Tompkins."

"It would be so dull without a lady in the party. Nothing but tigers and shikarries and other
native abominations to talk to. Do you not think so?"

"Why, yes. I told Mr. Ghyrkins that all the little Smith-Tompkins children had the measles,
and the house was not safe. If they have not had them, they will, I have no doubt. Heaven is
just, and will not leave you to the conversational mercies of the entertaining tiger and the
engaging shikarry."

"By Jove, Mr. Griggs, that was a brilliant idea: and, as you say, they may all get the measles
yet. The fact is, I have set my heart on this thing. Miss Westonhaugh said she had never seen
a tiger, except in cages and that kind of thing, and so I made up my mind she should. Besides,
it will be no end of a lark; just when nobody is thinking about tigers, you go off and kill
a tremendous fellow, fifteen or sixteen feet long, and come back covered with glory and mosquito
bites, and tell everybody that Miss Westonhaugh shot him herself with a pocket pistol. That
will be glorious!"

"I should like it very much too; and I really see no reason why it should not be done. Mr.
Ghyrkins seemed in a very cheerful humour about tigers last night, and I have no doubt a little
persuasion from you will bring him to a proper view of his obligations to Miss Westonhaugh."
He looked pleased and bright and hopeful, thoroughly enthusiastic, as became his Irish blood.
He evidently intended to have quite as "good" a "time" as Isaacs proposed to enjoy. I thought
the spectacle of those rivals for the beautiful girl's favour would be extremely interesting.
Lord Steepleton was doubtless a good shot and a brave man, and would risk anything to secure
Miss Westonhaugh's approval; Isaacs, on the other hand, was the sort of man who is very much
the same in danger as anywhere else.

"That is what I came to ask you about. We shall all meet there at dinner this evening, and
I wanted to secure as many allies as possible."

"You may count on me, Lord Steepleton, at all events. There is nothing I should enjoy better
than such a fortnight's holiday, in such good company."

"All right," said Lord Steepleton, rising, "I must be off now to Peterhof. It is an organised
movement on Mr. Ghyrkins this evening, then. Is it understood?" He took his bearskin from the
table, and prepared to go, pulling his straps and belts into place, and dusting a particle
of ash from his sleeve.

"Perfectly," I answered. "We will drag him forth into the arena before three days are past."
We shook hands, and he went out.

I was glad he had come, though I had been waked from a pleasant nap to reeeive him. He was
so perfectly gay, and natural, and healthy, that one could not help liking him. You felt at
once that he was honest and would do the right thing in spite of any one, according to his
light; that he would stand by a friend in danger, and face any odds in fight, with as much
honest determination to play fair and win, as he would bring to a cricket match or a steeple-chase.
His Irish blood gave him a somewhat less formal manner than belongs to the Englishman; more
enthusiasm and less regard for "form," while his good heart and natural courtesy would lead
him right in the long-run. He seemed all sunshine, with his bright blue eyes and great fair
moustache and brown face; the closely fitting uniform showed off his erect figure and; elastic
gait, and the whole impression was fresh and exhilarating in the extreme. I was sorry he had
gone. I would have liked to talk with him about boating and fishing and shooting; about athletics
and horses and tandem-driving, and many things I used, to like years ago at college, before
I began my wandering life; I watched him as he swung himself: into the military saddle, and
he threw up his hand in a parting salute as he rode away. Poor fellow! was he, too, going to
be food for powder and Afghan knives in the avenging army on its way to Kabul? I went back
to my books and remained reading until the afternoon sun slanted in through the open door,
and falling across my book warned me it was time to keep my appointment with Isaacs.

As we passed the church the people were coming out from the evening service, and I saw Kildare,
once more in the garb of a civilian, standing near the door, apparently watching for some one
to appear. I knew that, with his strict observance of Catholic rules--often depending more
on pride of family than on religious conviction, in the house of Kildare--he would not have
entered the English Church at such a time, and I was sure he was lying in wait for Miss Westonhaugh,
probably intending to surprise her and join her on her homeward ride. The road winds down below
the Church, so that for some minutes after passing the building you may get a glimpse of the
mall above and of the people upon it--or at least of their heads--if they are moving near the
edge of the path. I was unaccountably curious this evening, and I dropped a little behind Isaacs,
craning my neck and turning back in the saddle as I watched the stream of heads and shoulders,
strongly foreshortened against the blue sky above, moving ceaselessly along the parapet over
my head. Before long I was rewarded; Miss Westonhaugh's fair hair and broad hat entered the
field of my vision, and a moment later Lord Steepleton, who must have pushed through the crowd
from the other side, appeared struggling after her. She turned quickly, and I saw no more,
but I did not think she had changed colour.

I began to be deeply interested in ascertaining whether she had any preference for one or the
other of the two young men. Kildare's visit in the morning--though he had said very little--had
given me a new impression of the man, and I felt that he was no contemptible rival. I saw from
the little incident I had just witnessed that he neglected no opportunity of being with Miss
Westonhaugh, and that he had the patience to wait and the boldness to find her in a crowd.
I had seen very little of her myself; but I had been amply satisfied that Isaacs was capable
of interesting her in a tête-à-tête conversation. "The talker has the best chance, if he is
bold enough," I said to myself; but I was not satisfied, and I resolved that if I could manage
it Isaacs should have another chance that very evening after the dinner. Meanwhile I would
involve Isaacs in a conversation on some one of those subjects that seemed to interest him
most. He had not seen the couple on the mall, and was carelessly ambling along with his head
in the air and one hand in the pocket of his short coat, the picture of unconcern. 

"I wonder my Lord Chesterfield associates with such a villain!" called out Harry from his table.
The other couple of diners looked at him. To his surprise the nobleman
so addressed went on talking.

"There cannot be a more fieffe coquin than this Poellnitz.

Why, Heaven be thanked, he has actually left me my snuff-box! You laugh?--the fellow is capable
of taking it."

And my lord thought it was his own satire at which the young men were
laughing.

"You are quite right, sir," said one of the two diners, turning to Mr. Warrington, "though, saving your
presence, I don't know what business it is of yours. My lord will play with anybody who will
set him. Don't be alarmed, he is as deaf as a post, and did not hear
a word that you said; and that's why my lord will play with anybody
who will put a pack of cards before him, and that is the reason why
he consorts with this rogue."

"Faith, I know other noblemen who are not particular as to their company,"
says Mr. Jack.

"Do you mean because I associate with you? I know my company, my good friend, and I defy most men
to have the better of me."

Not having paid the least attention to Mr. Warrington's angry interruption,
my lord opposite was talking in his favourite French with Monsieur
Barbeau, the landlord, and graciously complimenting him on his dinner.

The host bowed again and again; was enchanted that his Excellency
was satisfied: had not forgotten the art which he had learned when
he was a young man in his Excellency's kingdom of Ireland.

The salmi was to my lord's liking? He had just served a dish to the
young American seigneur who sate opposite, the gentleman from Virginia.

"To

whom?" My lord's pale face became red for a moment, as he asked this
question, and looked towards Harry Warrington, opposite to him.

"To the young gentleman from Virginia who has just arrived, and who perfectly
possesses our beautiful language!" says Mr. Barbeau, thinking to kill
two birds, as it were, with this one stone of a compliment.

"And to whom your lordship will be answerable for language reflecting upon
my family, and uttered in the presence of these gentlemen," cried
out Mr. Warrington, at the top of his voice, determined that his opponent
should hear.

"You must go and call into his ear, and then he may perchance hear you,"
said one of the younger guests.

"I will take care that his lordship shall understand my meaning, one
way or other," Mr. Warrington said, with much dignity; "and will not
suffer calumnies regarding my relatives to be uttered by him or any
other man!"

Whilst Harry was speaking, the little nobleman opposite to him did
not hear him, but had time sufficient to arrange his own reply.

He had risen, passing his handkerchief once or twice across his mouth, and laying his slim fingers
on the table. "Sir," said he, "you will believe, on the word of a gentleman, that I had no idea before
whom I was speaking, and it seems that my acquaintance, Monsieur de Poellnitz, knew you no better
than myself. Had I known you, believe me that I should have been the last man in the world to utter
a syllable that should give you annoyance; and I tender you my regrets
and apologies, before my Lord March and Mr. Morris here present."

To these words, Mr. Warrington could only make a bow, and mumble out
a few words of acknowledgment: which speech having made believe to hear,
my lord made Harry another very profound bow, and saying he should
have the honour of waiting upon Mr. Warrington at his lodgings, saluted
the company, and went away.

CHAPTER XXVI. In which we are at a very Great Distance from Oakhurst

Within the precinct of the White Horse Tavern, and coming up to the windows
of the eating-room, was a bowling-green, with a table or two, where
guests might sit and partake of punch or tea.

The three gentlemen having come to an end of their dinner about the same time, Mr. Morris proposed
that they should adjourn to the Green, and there drink a cool bottle. "Jack Morris would adjourn to
the Dust Hole, as a pretext for a fresh drink," said my lord.

On which Jack said he supposed each gentleman had his own favourite way of going to the deuce.
His weakness, he owned, was a bottle.

"My Lord Chesterfield's deuce is deuce-ace," says my Lord March. "His
lordship can't keep away from the cards or dice."

"My Lord March has not one devil, but several devils.

He loves gambling, he loves horse-racing, he loves betting, he loves
drinking, he loves eating, he loves money, he loves women; and you
have fallen into bad company, Mr. Warrington, when you lighted upon
his lordship.

He will play you for every acre you have in Virginia."

"With the greatest pleasure in life, Mr. Warrington!" interposes my
lord.

"And for all your tobacco, and for all your spices, and for all your
slaves, and for all your oxen and asses, and for everything that is
yours."

"Shall we begin now? Jack, you are never without a dice-box or a bottle-screw. I will set Mr. Warrington
for what he likes."

"Unfortunately, my lord, the tobacco, and the slaves, and the asses, and the
oxen, are not mine, as yet. I am just of age, and my mother, scarce twenty
years older, has quite as good chance of long life as I have."

"I will bet you that you survive her. I will pay you a sum now against four times the sum to be paid at
her death. I will set you a fair sum over this table against the reversion of your estate in Virginia
at the old lady's departure.

What do you call your place?"

"Castlewood."

"A principality, I hear it is. I will bet that its value has been exaggerated
ten times at least amongst the quidnuncs here.

How came you by the name of Castlewood?--you are related to my lord? Oh,
stay: I know,--my lady, your mother, descends from the real head
of the house.

He took the losing side in '15.

I have had the story a dozen times from my old Duchess.

She knew your grandfather.

He was friend of Addison and Steele, and Pope and Milton, I dare say, and the bigwigs. It is a
pity he did not stay at home, and transport the other branch of the
family to the plantations."

"I have just been staying at Castlewood with my cousin there," remarked
Mr. Warrington.

"Hm! Did you play with him?

He's fond of pasteboard and bones."

"Never,
but for sixpences and a pool of commerce with the ladies."

"So much the better for both of you. But you played with Will Esmond if
he was at home?

I will lay ten to one you played with Will Esmond."

Harry blushed, and owned that of an evening his cousin and he had had
a few games at cards.

"And Tom Sampson, the chaplain," cried Jack Morris, "was he of the party?
I wager that Tom made a third, and the Lord deliver you from Tom
and Will Esmond together!"

"Nay; the truth is, I won of both of them," said Mr. Warrington.

"And they paid you? Well, miracles will never cease!"

"I did not say anything about miracles," remarked Mr. Harry, smiling
over his wine.

"And you don't tell tales out of school--the volto sciolto--hey, Mr.
Warrington?" says my lord.

"I beg your pardon," said downright Harry, "French is the only language besides my own of which I know a little."

"My
Lord March has learned Italian at the Opera, and a pretty penny his lessons
have cost him," remarked Jack Morris.

"We must show him the Opera--mustn't we, March?"

"Must we, Morris?" said my lord, as if he only half liked the other's
familiarity.

Both of the two gentlemen were dressed alike, in small scratch-wigs
without powder, in blue frocks with plate buttons, in buckskins and
riding-boots, in little hats with a narrow cord of lace, and no outward
mark of fashion.

"I don't care about the Opera much, my lord," says Harry, warming with his wine; "but I should
like to go to Newmarket, and long to see a good English hunting-field."

"We

will show you Newmarket and the hunting-field, sir. Can you ride pretty well?"

"I think I can," Harry said; "and I can shoot pretty well, and jump some."

"What's
your weight?

I bet you we weigh even, or I weigh most. I bet you Jack Morris beats you at birds or a mark, at five-and-twenty
paces.

I bet you I jump farther than you on flat ground, here on this green."

"I don't know Mr. Morris's shooting--I never saw either gentleman
before--but I take your bets, my lord, at what you please," cries
Harry, who by this time was more than warm with Burgundy.

"Ponies on each!" cried my lord.

"Done and done!" cried my lord and Harry together. The young man
thought it was for the honour of his country not to be ashamed of
any bet made to him.

"We can try the last bet now, if your feet are pretty steady," said
my lord, springing up, stretching his arms and limbs, and looking
at the crisp, dry grass.

He drew his boots off, then his coat and waistcoat, buckling his belt
round his waist, and flinging his clothes down to the ground.

Harry had more respect for his garments.

It was his best suit. He took off the velvet coat and waistcoat, folded them up daintily, and, as the two
or three tables round were slopped with drink, went to place the
clothes on a table in the eating-room, of which the windows were open.

Here a new guest had entered; and this was no other than Mr. Wolfe,
who was soberly eating a chicken and salad, with a modest pint of
wine.

Harry was in high spirits. He told the Colonel he had a bet with my Lord
March--would Colonel Wolfe stand him halves?

The Colonel said he was too poor to bet. Would he come out and see fair play? That he would with all
his heart. Colonel Wolfe set down his glass, and stalked through
the open window after his young friend.

"Who is that tallow-faced Put with the carroty hair?" says Jack Morris,
on whom the Burgundy had had its due effect.

Mr. Warrington explained that this was Lieutenant-Colonel Wolfe, of
the 20th Regiment.

"Your humble servant, gentlemen!" says the Colonel, making the company
a rigid military bow.

"Never saw such a figure in my life!" cries Jack Morris. "Did you--March?"

"I beg your pardon, I think you said March?" said the Colonel, looking
very much surprised.

"I am the Earl of March, sir, at Colonel Wolfe's service," said the
nobleman, bowing.

"My friend, Mr. Morris, is so intimate with me, that, after dinner, we are quite like brothers."

Why is not all Tunbridge Wells by to hear this? thought Morris. And he was so delighted that
he shouted out, "Two to one on my lord!"

"Done!" calls out Mr. Warrington; and the enthusiastic Jack was obliged
to cry "Done!" too.

"Take him, Colonel," Harry whispers to his friend.

But the Colonel said he could not afford to lose, and therefore could not hope to win.

"I see you have won one of our bets already, Mr. Warrington," my Lord March
remarked.

"I am taller than you by an inch or two, but you are broader round the shoulders."

"Pooh, my dear Will! I bet you you weigh twice as much as he does!"
cries Jack Morris.

"Done, Jack!" says my lord, laughing. "The bets are all ponies. Will
you take him, Mr. Warrington?"

"No, my dear fellow--one's enough," says Jack.

"Very good, my dear fellow," says my lord; "and now we will settle
the other wager."

Having already arrayed himself in his best silk stockings, black satin-net
breeches, and neatest pumps, Harry did not care to take off his shoes
as his antagonist had done, whose heavy riding-boots and spurs were,
to be sure, little calculated for leaping.

They had before them a fine even green turf of some thirty yards in
length, enough for a run and enough for a jump. A gravel walk ran
around this green, beyond which was a wall and gate-sign--a field azure,
bearing the Hanoverian White Horse rampant between two skittles proper,
and for motto the name of the landlord and of the animal depicted.

My lord's friend laid a handkerchief on the ground as the mark whence the leapers were to take their
jump, and Mr. Wolfe stood at the other end of the grass-plat to note
the spot where each came down.

"My lord went first," writes Mr. Warrington, in a letter to Mrs. Mountain,
at Castlewood, Virginia, still extant. "He was for having me take
the lead; but, remembering the story about the Battel of Fontanoy
which my dearest George used to tell, I says, 'Monseigneur le Comte,
tirez le premier, s'il vous play.' So he took his run in his stocken
feet, and for the honour of Old Virginia, I had the gratafacation
of beating his lordship by more than two feet--viz., two feet nine
inches--me jumping twenty-one feet three inches, by the drawer's measured
tape, and his lordship only eighteen six.

I had won from him about my weight before (which I knew the moment I
set my eye upon him). So he and Mr. Jack paid me these two betts.

And with my best duty to my mother--she will not be displeased with me, for I bett for the honor of
the Old Dominion, and my opponent was a nobleman of the first quality,
himself holding two Erldomes, and heir to a Duke.

Betting is all the rage here, and the bloods and young fellows of fashion are betting away from
morning till night.

"I told them--and that was my mischief perhaps--that there was a gentleman
at home who could beat me by a good foot; and when they asked who
it was, and I said Col. G. Washington, of Mount Vernon--as you know
he can, and he's the only man in his county or mine that can do it--Mr.
Wolfe asked me ever so many questions about Col. G. W., and showed
that he had heard of him, and talked over last year's unhappy campane
as if he knew every inch of the ground, and he knew the names of all
our rivers, only he called the Potowmac Pottamac, at which we had
a good laugh at him.

My Lord of March and Ruglen was not in the least ill-humour about losing,
and he and his friend handed me notes out of their pocket-books,
which filled mine that was getting very empty, for the vales to the
servants at my cousin Castlewood's house and buying a horse at Oakhurst
have very nearly put me on the necessity of making another draft upon
my honoured mother or her London or Bristol agent."

These feats of activity over, the four gentlemen now strolled out
of the tavern garden into the public walk, where, by this time, a
great deal of company was assembled: upon whom Mr. Jack, who was of
a frank and free nature, with a loud voice, chose to make remarks
that were not always agreeable.

And here, if my Lord March made a joke, of which his lordship was not
sparing, Jack roared, "Oh, ho, ho! Oh, good Gad! Oh, my dear earl!

Oh, my dear lord, you'll be the death of me!" "It seemed as if he wished everybody to know," writes Harry sagaciously
to Mrs. Mountain, "that his friend and companion was an Erl!"

There was, indeed, a great variety of characters who passed. M. Poellnitz,
no finer dressed than he had been at dinner, grinned, and saluted
with his great laced hat and tarnished feathers.

Then came
by my Lord Chesterfield, in a pearl-coloured suit, with his blue ribbon
and star, and saluted the young men in his turn.

"I will back the old boy for taking his hat off against the whole kingdom,
and France either," says my Lord March.

"He has never changed the shape of that hat of his for twenty years.

Look at it. There it goes again! Do you see that great,
big, awkward, pock-marked, snuff-coloured man, who hardly touches his
clumsy beaver in reply. D---- his confounded impudence--do you know who that is?"

"No,
curse him! Who is it, March?" asks Jack, with an oath.

"It's one Johnson, a Dictionary-maker, about whom my Lord Chesterfield wrote
some most capital papers, when his dixonary was coming out, to patronise
the fellow.

I know they were capital. I've heard
Horry Walpole say so, and he knows all about that kind of thing. Confound
the impudent schoolmaster!"

"Hang him, he ought to stand in the pillory!" roars Jack.

"That fat man he's walking with is another of
your writing fellows,--a printer,--his name is Richardson; he wrote Clarissa,
you know."

"Great heavens! my lord, is that the great Richardson? Is that the man who
wrote Clarissa?" called
out Colonel Wolfe and Mr. Warrington, in a breath.

Harry ran forward to look at the old gentleman
toddling along the walk with a train of admiring ladies surrounding
him.

"Indeed, my very dear sir," one was saying, "you are too great and
good to live in such a world; but sure you were sent to teach it virtue!"

"Ah,

my Miss Mulso! Who
shall teach the teacher?" said the good, fat old man, raising a kind,
round face skywards. "Even he has his faults and errors!

Even his
age and experience does not prevent him from stumbl---. Heaven bless my soul,
Mr. Johnson! I ask your pardon if I have trodden on your corn."

"You have done both, sir.

You have trodden
on the corn, and received the pardon," said Mr. Johnson, and went on
mumbling some verses, swaying to and fro, his eyes turned towards
the ground, his hands behind him, and occasionally endangering with his
great stick the honest, meek eyes of his companion-author.

"They do not see very well, my dear Mulso," he says to the young lady,
"but such as they are, I would keep my lash from Mr. Johnson's cudgel.

Your servant, sir." Here he made
a low bow, and took off his hat to Mr. Warrington, who shrank back with
many blushes, after saluting the great author. The great author was
accustomed to be adored. A gentler wind never puffed mortal vanity.
Enraptured spinsters flung tea-leaves round him, and incensed him
with the coffee-pot. Matrons kissed the slippers they had worked
for him.

There
was a halo of virtue round his nightcap. All Europe had thrilled, panted,
admired, trembled, wept, over the pages of the immortal little, kind,
honest man with the round paunch.

Harry came
back quite glowing and proud at having a bow from him. "Ah!" says
he, "my lord, I am glad to have seen him!"

"Seen him! why, dammy, you may see him any day in his shop, I suppose?"
says Jack, with a laugh.

"My brother declared that he, and Mr. Fielding, I think, was the name, were
the greatest geniuses in England; and often used to say, that when
we came to Europe, his first pilgrimage would be to Mr. Richardson," cried
Harry, always impetuous, honest, and tender, when he spoke of the dearest
friend.

"Your brother spoke like a man," cried Mr. Wolfe, too,
his pale face likewise flushing up. "I would rather be a man of genius,
than a peer of the realm."

"Every man to his taste, Colonel," says my lord, much amused.

"Your
enthusiasm--I don't mean anything personal--refreshes me, on my honour
it does."

"So it does me--by gad--perfectly refreshes me," cries Jack

"So it does Jack--you see--it actually refreshes Jack! I say, Jack,
which would you rather be?--a fat old printer," who has written a story
about a confounded girl and a fellow that ruins her,--or a peer of Parliament
with ten thousand a year?"

"March--my Lord March, do you take me for a fool?" says Jack, with a tearful
voice. "Have I done anything to deserve this language from you?"
"I would rather win honour than honours: I would rather have genius
than wealth. I would rather make my name than inherit it, though my
father's, thank God, is an honest one," said the young Colonel. "But
pardon me, gentlemen," and here making, them a hasty salutation, he
ran across the parade towards a young and elderly lady and a gentleman,
who were now advancing.

"It is the beautiful Miss Lowther. I remember
now," says my lord. "See! he takes her arm! The report is, he is engaged
to her."

"You don't mean to say such a fellow is engaged to any of
the Lowthers of the North?" cries out Jack. "Curse me, what is the
world come to, with your printers, and your half-pay ensigns, and
your schoolmasters, and your infernal nonsense?"

The Dictionary-maker,
who had shown so little desire to bow to my Lord Chesterfield, when
that famous nobleman courteously saluted him, was here seen to take
off his beaver, and bow almost to the ground, before a florid personage
in a large round hat, with bands and a gown, who made his appearance
in the Walk. This was my Lord Bishop of Salisbury, wearing complacently
the blue riband and badge of the Garter, of which Noble Order his
lordship was prelate.

Mr. Johnson stood, hat in hand, during the
whole time of his conversation with Dr. Gilbert; who made many flattering
and benedictory remarks to Mr. Richardson, declaring that he was the
supporter of virtue, the preacher of sound morals, the mainstay of
religion, of all which points the honest printer himself was perfectly
convinced.

Do not let any young lady trip to her grandpapa's bookcase
in consequence of this eulogium, and rashly take down Clarissa from
the shelf. She would not care to read the volumes, over which her
pretty ancestresses wept and thrilled a hundred years ago; which were
commended by divines from pulpits and belauded all Europe over. I
wonder, are our women more virtuous than their grandmothers, or only
more squeamish? If the former, then Miss Smith of New York is certainly
more modest than Miss Smith of London, who still does not scruple
to say that tables, pianos, and animals have legs. Oh, my faithful,
good old Samuel Richardson! Hath the news yet reached thee in Hades
that thy sublime novels are huddled away in corners, and that our
daughters may no more read Clarissa than Tom Jones? Go up, Samuel,
and be reconciled with thy brother-scribe, whom in life thou didst
hate so. You are a man who believes in all that is good and beautiful in theory, but
by too much indifference to good in small measures--for you want a thing perfect, or you want
it not at all---you have abstracted yourself from perceiving it anywhere, except in the most
brilliant examples of heroism that history affords. You set up in your imagination an ideal
which you call the good man, and you are utterly dissatisfied with anything less perfect than
perfection. The result is that, though you might do a good action from your philosophical longing
to approach the ideal in your own person, you will not suffer yourself to believe that others
are consciously or unconsciously striving to make themselves better also. And you do not believe
that any one can be made a better man by any one else, by any exterior agency, by any good
that you or others may do to him. What makes you what you are is the fact that you really cherish
this beautiful ideal image of your worship and reverence, and love it; but for this, you would
be the most insufferable man of my acquaintance, instead of being the most agreeable."

Isaacs was gifted with a marvellous frankness of speech. He always said what he meant, with
a supreme indifference to consequences; but he said it with such perfect honesty and evident
appreciation of what was good, even when he most vehemently condemned what he did not like,
that it was impossible to be annoyed. Every one laughed at his attack on me, and having satisfied
my desire to observe Miss Westonhaugh, which had prompted my first remark about griffins, I
thought it was time to turn the conversation to the projected hunt.

"My dear fellow," I said, "I think that in spite of your Parthian shaft, your definition of
a cynic is as complimentary to the school at large as to me in particular. Meanwhile, however,"
I added, turning to Mr. Ghyrkins, "I am inclined to believe with Lord Steepleton that the subject
uppermost in the thoughts of most of us is the crusade against the tigers. What do you say?
Shall we not all go as we are, a neat party of six?"

"Well, well, Mr. Griggs, we shall see, you know. Now, if we are going at all, when do you mean
to start?"

"The sooner the better of course," broke in Kildare, and he launched into a host of reasons
for going immediately, including the wildest statistics about the habits of tigers in winter.
This was quite natural, however, as he was a thorough Irishman and had never seen a tiger in
his life. Mr. Currie Ghyrkins vainly attempted to stem the torrent of his eloquence, but at
last pinned him on some erratic statement about tigers moulting later in the year and their
skins not being worth taking. Kildare would have asserted with equal equanimity that all tigers
shed their teeth and their tails in December; he was evidently trying to rouse Mr. Ghyrkins
into a discussion on the subject of tiger shooting in general, a purpose very easily accomplished.
The old gentleman was soon goaded to madness by Kildare's wonderful opinions, and before long
he vowed that the youngster had never seen a tiger,--not one in his whole life, sir,--and that
it was high time he did, high time indeed, and he swore he should see one before he was a week
older. Yes, sir, before he was a week older, "if I have to carry you among 'em like a baby
in arms, sir, by gad, sir--I should think so!"

This was all we wanted, and in another ten minutes we were drinking a bumper to the health
of the whole tiger-hunt and of Miss Westonhaugh in particular. Isaacs joined with the rest,
and though he only drank some sherbet, as I watched his bright eyes and pale cheek, I thought
that never knight drank truer toast to his lady. Miss Westonhaugh rose and went out, leaving
us to smoke for a while. The conversation was general, and turned on the chase, of course.
In a few minutes Isaacs dropped his cigarette and went quietly out. I determined to detain
the rest as long as possible, and I seconded Mr. Ghyrkins in passing the claret briskly round,
telling all manner of stories of all nations and peoples--ancient tales that would not amuse
a schoolboy in America, but which were a revelation of profound wit and brilliant humour to
the unsophisticated British mind. By immense efforts--and I hate to exert myself in conversation--I
succeeded in prolonging the session through a cigar and a half, but at last I was forced to
submit to a move; and with a somewhat ancient remark from Mr. Ghyrkins, to the effect that
all good things must come to an end, we returned to the drawing-room.

Isaacs and Miss Westonhaugh were looking over some English photographs, and she was enthusiastically
praising the beauties of Gothic architecture, while Isaacs was making the most of his opportunity,
and taking a good look at her as she bent over the album. After we came in, she made a little
music at the tuneless piano--there never was a piano in India yet that had any tune in it--playing
and singing a little, very prettily. She sang something about a body in the rye, and then something
else about drinking only with the eyes, to which her brother sang a sort of second very nicely.
I do not understand much about music, but I thought the allusion to Isaacs' temperance in only
drinking with his eyes was rather pointed. He said, however, that he liked it even better with
a second than when she sang it alone, so I argued that it was not the first time he had heard it.

"Mr. Isaacs," said she, "you have often promised to sing something Persian for us. Will you
not keep your word now?"

"When we are among the tigers, Miss Westonhaugh, next week. Then I will try and borrow a lute
and sing you something."

It was late for an Indian dinner-party, so we took our departure soon afterwards, having agreed
to meet the following afternoon at Annandale for the game of polo, in which Westonhaugh said
he would also play. He and Isaacs made some appointment for the morning; they seemed to be
very sympathetic to each other. Kildare mounted and rode homeward with us, though he had much
farther to go than we. If he felt any annoyance at the small successes Isaacs had achieved
during the evening, he was far too courteous a gentleman to show it; and so, as we groped our
way through the trees by the starlight, chiefly occupied in keeping our horses on their legs,
the snatches of conversation that were possible were pleasant, if not animated, and there was
a cordial "Good-night" on both sides, as we left Kildare to pursue his way alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER VIII.

It was nearly four o'clock in the afternoon when Isaacs and I emerged from the narrow road
upon the polo ground. We were clad in the tight-fitting garments which are necessary for the
game, and wrapped in light top-coats; as we came out on the green we saw a number of other
men in similar costume standing about, and a great many native grooms leading ponies up and
down. Miss Westonhaugh was there in her gray habit and broad hat, and by her side, on foot,
Lord Steepleton Kildare was making the most of his time, as he waited for the rest of the players.
Mr. Currie Ghyrkins was ambling about on his broad little horse, and John Westonhaugh stood
with his hands in his pockets and a large Trichinopoli cheroot between his lips, apparently
gazing into space. Several other men, more or less known to us and to each other, moved about
or chatted disconnectedly, and one or two arrived after us. Some of them wore coloured jerseys
that showed brightly over the open collars of their coats, others were in ordinary dress and
had come to see the game. Farther off, at one side of the ground, one or two groups of ladies
and their escorting cavaliers haunted at a short distance by their saices in many-coloured
turbans and belts, or cummer-bunds, as the sash is called in India, moved slowly about, glancing
from time to time towards the place where the players and their ponies were preparing for the
contest.

Few games require so little preparation and so few preliminaries as polo, descended as it is
from an age when more was thought of good horsemanship and quick eye than of any little refinements
depending on an accurate knowledge of fixed rules. Any one who is a firstrate rider and is
quick with his hands can learn to play polo. The stiffest of arms can be limbered and the most
recalcitrant wrist taught to turn nimbly in its socket; but the essential condition is, that
the player should know how to ride. This being established, there is no reason why anybody
who likes should not play the game, if he will only use a cetrain amount of caution, and avoid
braining the other players and injuring the ponies by too wild a use of his mallet. Presently
it was found that all who were to play had arrived--eight of us all told. Kildare had arranged
the sides and had brought the other men necessary to make the number complete, so we mounted
and took up our positions on the ground. Kildare and Isaacs were together, and Westonhaugh
and I on the other side, with two men I knew slightly. We won the charge, and Westonhaugh,
who was a celebrated player, struck the ball off cleverly, and I followed him up with a rush
as he raced after it. Isaacs, on the other side, swept along easily, and as the ball swerved
on striking the ground bent far over till he looked as though he were out of the saddle and
stopped it cleverly, while Kildare, who was close behind, got a good stroke in just in time,
as Westonhaugh and I galloped down on him, and landed the ball far to the rear near our goal.
As we wheeled quickly, I saw that one of the other two men on our side had stopped it and was
beginning to "dribble" it along. This was very bad play, both Westonhaugh and I being so far
forward, and it met its reward. Isaacs and Kildare raced down on him, but the latter soon pulled
up on finding himself passed, and waited. Isaacs rushed upon the temporising player and got
the ball away from him in no time; eluded the other man, and with a neat stroke sent the ball
right between the poles. The game had hardly lasted three minutes, and a little sound of clapping
was heard from where the spectators were standing, far off on one side. I could see Miss Westonhaugh
plainly, as she cantered with her uncle to where the victors were standing together on the
other side, patting their ponies and adjusting stirrup and saddle. Isaacs had his back turned,
but wheeled round as he heard the sound of hoofs behind him and bowed low in his saddle to
the fair girl, whose face, I could see even at that distance, was flushed with pleasure. They
remained a few minutes in conversation, and then the two spectators rode away, and we took
up our positions once more.

The next game was a much longer one. It was the turn of the other party to hit off, for Kildare
won the charge. There were encounters of all kinds; twice the ball was sent over the line,
but outside the goal, by long sweeping blows from Isaacs, who ever hovered on the edge of the
scrimmage, and, by his good riding, and the help of a splendid pony, often had a chance where
another would have had none. At last it happened that I was chasing the ball back towards our
goal, from one of his hits, and he was pursuing me. I had the advantage of a long start, and
before he could reach me I got in a heavy "backhander" that sent the ball far away to one side,
where, as good luck would have it, Westonhaugh was waiting. Quick as thought he carried it
along, and in another minute we had scored a goal, amidst enthusiastic shouts from the spectators,
who had been kept long in suspense by the protracted game. This time it was to our side that
the young girl came, riding up to her brother to congratulate him on his success. "I wonder my
Lord Chesterfield associates with such a villain!" called out Harry from his table. The other
couple of diners looked at him. To his surprise the nobleman so addressed
went on talking.

"There cannot be a more fieffe coquin than this Poellnitz.

Why, Heaven be thanked, he has actually left me my snuff-box! You
laugh?--the fellow is capable of taking it." And my lord thought it was his
own satire at which the young men were laughing.

"You are quite right, sir," said one of the two diners, turning to Mr. Warrington, "though, saving
your presence, I don't know what business it is of yours. My lord
will play with anybody who will set him.

Don't be alarmed, he is as deaf as a post, and did not hear a word
that you said; and that's why my lord will play with anybody who
will put a pack of cards before him, and that is the reason why he
consorts with this rogue."

"Faith, I know other noblemen who are not particular as to their company," says
Mr. Jack.

"Do you mean because I associate with you? I know my company, my good friend, and I defy most men to
have the better of me."

Not having paid the least attention to Mr. Warrington's angry interruption,
my lord opposite was talking in his favourite French with Monsieur
Barbeau, the landlord, and graciously complimenting him on his dinner.

The host bowed again and again; was enchanted that his Excellency was satisfied: had not forgotten the
art which he had learned when he was a young man in his Excellency's
kingdom of Ireland.

The salmi was to my lord's liking? He had just served a dish to the
young American seigneur who sate opposite, the gentleman from Virginia.

"To
whom?"

My lord's pale face became red for a moment, as he asked this question, and looked towards Harry Warrington,
opposite to him.

"To the young gentleman from Virginia who has just arrived, and who
perfectly possesses our beautiful language!" says Mr. Barbeau, thinking
to kill two birds, as it were, with this one stone of a compliment.

"And to whom your lordship will be answerable for language reflecting
upon my family, and uttered in the presence of these gentlemen," cried
out Mr. Warrington, at the top of his voice, determined that his opponent
should hear.

"You must go and call into his ear, and then he may perchance hear you," said one of the younger
guests.

"I will take care that his lordship shall understand my meaning, one
way or other," Mr. Warrington said, with much dignity; "and will not
suffer calumnies regarding my relatives to be uttered by him or any
other man!"

Whilst Harry was speaking, the little nobleman opposite to him did
not hear him, but had time sufficient to arrange his own reply.

He had risen, passing his handkerchief once or twice across his mouth,
and laying his slim fingers on the table. "Sir," said he, "you will
believe, on the word of a gentleman, that I had no idea before whom
I was speaking, and it seems that my acquaintance, Monsieur de Poellnitz,
knew you no better than myself.

Had I known you, believe me that I should have been the last man
in the world to utter a syllable that should give you annoyance; and
I tender you my regrets and apologies, before my Lord March and Mr.
Morris here present."

To these words, Mr. Warrington could only make a bow, and mumble
out a few words of acknowledgment: which speech having made believe
to hear, my lord made Harry another very profound bow, and saying
he should have the honour of waiting upon Mr. Warrington at his lodgings,
saluted the company, and went away.

CHAPTER XXVI. In which we are at a very Great Distance from Oakhurst

Within the precinct of the White Horse Tavern, and coming up to the
windows of the eating-room, was a bowling-green, with a table or two,
where guests might sit and partake of punch or tea.

The
three gentlemen having come to an end of their dinner about the same
time, Mr. Morris proposed that they should adjourn to the Green, and
there drink a cool bottle.

"Jack Morris would adjourn to the Dust Hole, as a pretext for a fresh
drink," said my lord.

On which Jack said he supposed each gentleman had his own favourite
way of going to the deuce.

His weakness, he owned, was a bottle.

"My Lord Chesterfield's deuce is deuce-ace," says my Lord March. "His
lordship can't keep away from the cards or dice."

"My Lord March has not one devil, but several devils. He loves gambling, he loves
horse-racing, he loves betting, he loves drinking, he loves eating,
he loves money, he loves women; and you have fallen into bad company,
Mr. Warrington, when you lighted upon his lordship.

He will play you for every acre you have in Virginia."

"With the greatest pleasure in life, Mr. Warrington!" interposes my lord.

"And for all your tobacco, and for all your spices, and for all your
slaves, and for all your oxen and asses, and for everything that is
yours."

"Shall we begin now? Jack, you are never without a dice-box or a bottle-screw.

I will set Mr. Warrington for what he likes."

"Unfortunately, my lord, the tobacco, and the slaves, and the asses,
and the oxen, are not mine, as yet.

I am just of age, and my mother, scarce twenty years older, has quite
as good chance of long life as I have."

"I will bet you that you survive her. I will pay you a sum now against
four times the sum to be paid at her death.

I will set you a fair sum over this table against the reversion of your
estate in Virginia at the old lady's departure.

What do you call your place?"

"Castlewood."

"A principality, I hear it is. I will bet that its value has been exaggerated ten times at least amongst the
quidnuncs here.

How came you by the name of Castlewood?--you are related to my lord?
Oh, stay: I know,--my lady, your mother, descends from the real head
of the house.

He took the losing side in '15. I have had the story a dozen times from my old Duchess. She
knew your grandfather. He was friend of Addison and Steele, and Pope
and Milton, I dare say, and the bigwigs.

It is a pity he did not stay at home, and transport the other branch
of the family to the plantations."

"I have just been staying at Castlewood with my cousin there," remarked
Mr. Warrington.

"Hm! Did you play with him? He's fond of pasteboard and bones."

"Never,
but for sixpences and a pool of commerce with the ladies."

"So much the better for both of you. But you played with Will Esmond
if he was at home? I will lay ten to one you played with Will Esmond."

Harry

blushed, and owned that of an evening his cousin and he had had a few
games at cards.

"And Tom Sampson, the chaplain," cried Jack Morris, "was he of the
party?

I wager that Tom made a third, and the Lord deliver you from Tom
and Will Esmond together!"

"Nay; the truth is, I won of both of them," said Mr. Warrington.

"And they paid you?

Well, miracles will never cease!"

"I did not say anything about miracles," remarked Mr. Harry, smiling
over his wine.

"And you don't tell tales out of school--the volto sciolto--hey, Mr.
Warrington?" says my lord.

"I beg your pardon," said downright Harry, "French is the only language besides my own of which
I know a little."

"My Lord March has learned Italian at the Opera, and a pretty penny
his lessons have cost him," remarked Jack Morris.

"We must show him the Opera--mustn't we, March?"

"Must we, Morris?" said my lord, as if he only half liked the other's
familiarity.

Both of the two gentlemen were dressed alike, in small scratch-wigs without
powder, in blue frocks with plate buttons, in buckskins and riding-boots,
in little hats with a narrow cord of lace, and no outward mark of
fashion.

"I don't care about the Opera much, my lord," says Harry, warming
with his wine; "but I should like to go to Newmarket, and long to
see a good English hunting-field."

"We will show you Newmarket and the hunting-field, sir.

Can you ride pretty well?"

"I think I can," Harry said; "and I can shoot pretty well, and jump some."

"What's your weight? I bet you we weigh even, or I weigh most. I bet you
Jack Morris beats you at birds or a mark, at five-and-twenty paces.

I bet you I jump farther than you on flat ground, here on this green."

"I
don't know Mr. Morris's shooting--I never saw either gentleman before--but
I take your bets, my lord, at what you please," cries Harry, who
by this time was more than warm with Burgundy.

"Ponies on each!" cried my lord.

"Done and done!" cried my lord and Harry together. The young man thought it was for the honour of
his country not to be ashamed of any bet made to him.

"We can try the last bet now, if your feet are pretty steady," said
my lord, springing up, stretching his arms and limbs, and looking
at the crisp, dry grass.

He drew his boots off, then his coat and waistcoat, buckling his belt
round his waist, and flinging his clothes down to the ground.

Harry had more respect for his garments. It was his best suit. He took off the velvet coat and waistcoat,
folded them up daintily, and, as the two or three tables round were
slopped with drink, went to place the clothes on a table in the eating-room,
of which the windows were open.

Here a new guest had entered; and this was no other than Mr. Wolfe,
who was soberly eating a chicken and salad, with a modest pint of
wine. Harry was in high spirits. He told the Colonel he had a bet
with my Lord March--would Colonel Wolfe stand him halves?

The Colonel said he was too poor to bet. Would he come out and see fair play?
That he would with all his heart.

Colonel Wolfe set down his glass, and stalked through the open window
after his young friend.

"Who is that tallow-faced Put with the carroty hair?" says Jack Morris,
on whom the Burgundy had had its due effect.

Mr. Warrington explained that this was Lieutenant-Colonel Wolfe, of
the 20th Regiment.

"Your humble servant, gentlemen!" says the Colonel, making the company
a rigid military bow.

"Never saw such a figure in my life!" cries Jack Morris. "Did you--March?"

"I beg your pardon, I think you said March?" said the Colonel, looking
very much surprised.

"I am the Earl of March, sir, at Colonel Wolfe's service," said the
nobleman, bowing.

       

"My friend, Mr. Morris, is so intimate with me, that, after dinner,
we are quite like brothers."

Why is not all Tunbridge Wells by to hear this? thought Morris. And
he was so delighted that he shouted out, "Two to one on my lord!"

"Done!" calls out Mr. Warrington; and the enthusiastic Jack was obliged
to cry "Done!" too.

"Take him, Colonel," Harry whispers to his friend.

But the Colonel said he could not afford to lose, and therefore could
not hope to win.

"I see you have won one of our bets already, Mr. Warrington," my Lord
March remarked.

"I am taller than you by an inch or two, but you are broader round the shoulders."

"Pooh, my dear Will! I bet you you weigh twice as much as he does!" cries
Jack Morris.

"Done, Jack!" says my lord, laughing.

"The bets are all ponies. Will you take him, Mr. Warrington?"

"No, my dear fellow--one's enough," says Jack.

"Very good, my dear fellow," says my lord; "and now we will settle
the other wager."

Having already arrayed himself in his best silk stockings, black satin-net breeches, and neatest
pumps, Harry did not care to take off his shoes as his antagonist had done, whose heavy riding-boots and
spurs were, to be sure, little calculated for leaping. They had before them a fine even green turf
of some thirty yards in length, enough for a run and enough for a jump.
A gravel walk ran around this green, beyond which was a wall and gate-sign--a
field azure, bearing the Hanoverian White Horse rampant between two skittles
proper, and for motto the name of the landlord and of the animal depicted.

My
lord's friend laid a handkerchief on the ground as the mark whence the leapers
were to take their jump, and Mr. Wolfe stood at the other end of the
grass-plat to note the spot where each came down.

"My lord went first," writes Mr. Warrington, in a letter to Mrs. Mountain, at Castlewood, Virginia,
still extant.

"He was for having me take the lead; but, remembering the story about the Battel of Fontanoy which my
dearest George used to tell, I says, 'Monseigneur le Comte, tirez
le premier, s'il vous play.' So he took his run in his stocken feet,
and for the honour of Old Virginia, I had the gratafacation of beating
his lordship by more than two feet--viz., two feet nine inches--me
jumping twenty-one feet three inches, by the drawer's measured tape,
and his lordship only eighteen six.

I had won from him about my weight before (which I knew the moment I set my eye upon him). So he
and Mr. Jack paid me these two betts. And with my best duty to my mother--she
will not be displeased with me, for I bett for the honor of the Old
Dominion, and my opponent was a nobleman of the first quality, himself
holding two Erldomes, and heir to a Duke.

Betting is all the rage here, and the bloods and young fellows of fashion are betting away from
morning till night.

"I told them--and that was my mischief perhaps--that there was a gentleman at home who could beat
me by a good foot; and when they asked who it was, and I said Col. G. Washington, of Mount Vernon--as you know
he can, and he's the only man in his county or mine that can do it--Mr. Wolfe asked me ever so many questions
about Col. G. W., and showed that he had heard of him, and talked over last year's unhappy campane
as if he knew every inch of the ground, and he knew the names of all our
rivers, only he called the Potowmac Pottamac, at which we had a good
laugh at him. My Lord of March and Ruglen was not in the least ill-humour
about losing, and he and his friend handed me notes out of their pocket-books,
which filled mine that was getting very empty, for the vales to the
servants at my cousin Castlewood's house and buying a horse at Oakhurst
have very nearly put me on the necessity of making another draft upon
my honoured mother or her London or Bristol agent."

These feats of activity over, the four gentlemen now strolled out of the
tavern garden into the public walk, where, by this time, a great
deal of company was assembled: upon whom Mr. Jack, who was of a frank
and free nature, with a loud voice, chose to make remarks that were
not always agreeable.

And here, if my Lord March made a joke, of which his lordship was not sparing,
Jack roared, "Oh, ho, ho! Oh, good Gad! Oh, my dear earl! Oh, my dear
lord, you'll be the death of me!" "It seemed as if he wished everybody
to know," writes Harry sagaciously to Mrs. Mountain, "that his friend
and companion was an Erl!"

There was, indeed, a great variety of characters who
passed.

M. Poellnitz, no finer dressed than he had been at
dinner, grinned, and saluted with his great laced hat and tarnished feathers.
Then came by my Lord Chesterfield, in a pearl-coloured suit, with
his blue ribbon and star, and saluted the young men in his turn.

"I will back the old boy for taking his hat off against the whole kingdom,
and France either," says my Lord March. "He has never changed the
shape of that hat of his for twenty years.

Look at it. There it goes again! Do you see that great, big, awkward, pock-marked,
snuff-coloured man, who hardly touches his clumsy beaver in reply.
D---- his confounded impudence--do you know who that is?"

"No, curse him! Who is it, March?" asks Jack, with an oath.

"It's one Johnson, a Dictionary-maker, about whom my Lord Chesterfield
wrote some most capital papers, when his dixonary was coming out,
to patronise the fellow.

I know they were capital. I've heard Horry Walpole say so, and he
knows all about that kind of thing. Confound the impudent schoolmaster!"

"Hang
him, he ought to stand in the pillory!" roars Jack.

"That fat man he's walking with is another of your writing fellows,--a printer,--his
name is Richardson; he wrote Clarissa, you know."

"Great heavens! my lord, is that the great Richardson?

Is that the man who wrote Clarissa?"
called out Colonel Wolfe and Mr. Warrington, in a breath.

Harry ran forward to look at the old gentleman toddling along the walk with
a train of admiring ladies surrounding him.

"Indeed, my very dear sir," one was saying, "you are too great and good
to live in such a world; but sure you were sent to teach it virtue!"

"Ah, my Miss Mulso! Who shall teach the teacher?" said the good, fat old
man, raising a kind, round face skywards. "Even he has his faults
and errors! Even his age and experience does not prevent him from stumbl---.
Heaven bless my soul, Mr. Johnson! I ask your pardon if I have trodden
on your corn."

"You have done both, sir.

You have trodden on the corn, and received the pardon," said Mr. Johnson,
and went on mumbling some verses, swaying to and fro, his eyes turned
towards the ground, his hands behind him, and occasionally endangering
with his great stick the honest, meek eyes of his companion-author.

"They
do not see very well, my dear Mulso," he says to the young lady,
"but such as they are, I would keep my lash from Mr. Johnson's cudgel.

Your servant,
sir." Here he made a low bow, and took off his hat to Mr. Warrington, who shrank
back with many blushes, after saluting the great author. The great author
was accustomed to be adored. A gentler wind never puffed mortal vanity.
Enraptured spinsters flung tea-leaves round him, and incensed him
with the coffee-pot.

Matrons kissed the slippers they had worked for him. There was a halo
of virtue round his nightcap. All Europe had thrilled, panted, admired,
trembled, wept, over the pages of the immortal little, kind, honest
man with the round paunch. Harry came back quite glowing and proud
at having a bow from him.

"Ah!" says he, "my lord, I am glad to have seen him!"

"Seen him! why, dammy, you may see him any day in his shop, I suppose?" says Jack, with
a laugh.

"My brother declared that he, and Mr. Fielding, I think,
was the name, were the greatest geniuses in England; and often used
to say, that when we came to Europe, his first pilgrimage would be
to Mr. Richardson," cried Harry, always impetuous, honest, and tender,
when he spoke of the dearest friend.

"Your brother spoke like a man,"
cried Mr. Wolfe, too, his pale face likewise flushing up. "I would
rather be a man of genius, than a peer of the realm."

"Every man
to his taste, Colonel," says my lord, much amused. "Your enthusiasm--I
don't mean anything personal--refreshes me, on my honour it does."

"So
it does me--by gad--perfectly refreshes me," cries Jack

"So it does
Jack--you see--it actually refreshes Jack! I say, Jack, which would
you rather be?--a fat old printer," who has written a story about
a confounded girl and a fellow that ruins her,--or a peer of Parliament
with ten thousand a year?"

"March--my Lord March, do you take me
for a fool?" says Jack, with a tearful voice. "Have I done anything
to deserve this language from you?"

"I would rather win honour than
honours: I would rather have genius than wealth. I would rather make
my name than inherit it, though my father's, thank God, is an honest
one," said the young Colonel. "But pardon me, gentlemen," and here
making, them a hasty salutation, he ran across the parade towards
a young and elderly lady and a gentleman, who were now advancing.

"It
is the beautiful Miss Lowther. I remember now," says my lord. "See!
he takes her arm! The report is, he is engaged to her."

"You don't
mean to say such a fellow is engaged to any of the Lowthers of the
North?" cries out Jack. "Curse me, what is the world come to, with
your printers, and your half-pay ensigns, and your schoolmasters,
and your infernal nonsense?"

The Dictionary-maker, who had shown
so little desire to bow to my Lord Chesterfield, when that famous
nobleman courteously saluted him, was here seen to take off his beaver,
and bow almost to the ground, before a florid personage in a large
round hat, with bands and a gown, who made his appearance in the Walk.
This was my Lord Bishop of Salisbury, wearing complacently the blue
riband and badge of the Garter, of which Noble Order his lordship
was prelate.

Mr. Johnson stood, hat in hand, during the whole time
of his conversation with Dr. Gilbert; who made many flattering and
benedictory remarks to Mr. Richardson, declaring that he was the supporter
of virtue, the preacher of sound morals, the mainstay of religion,
of all which points the honest printer himself was perfectly convinced.

Do
not let any young lady trip to her grandpapa's bookcase in consequence
of this eulogium, and rashly take down Clarissa from the shelf. She
would not care to read the volumes, over which her pretty ancestresses
wept and thrilled a hundred years ago; which were commended by divines
from pulpits and belauded all Europe over. I wonder, are our women
more virtuous than their grandmothers, or only more squeamish? If
the former, then Miss Smith of New York is certainly more modest than
Miss Smith of London, who still does not scruple to say that tables,
pianos, and animals have legs. Oh, my faithful, good old Samuel Richardson!
Hath the news yet reached thee in Hades that thy sublime novels are
huddled away in corners, and that our daughters may no more read Clarissa
than Tom Jones? Go up, Samuel, and be reconciled with thy brother-scribe,
whom in life thou didst hate so.
Suffice it to say that we arrived on the following day at Fyzabad in Oude, and that we were
there met by guides and shikarries--the native huntsmen--who assured us that there were tigers
about near the outlying station of Pegnugger, where the elephants, previously ordered, would
all be in readiness for us on the following day. The journey from Fyzabad to Pegnugger was
not a long one, and we set out in the cool of the evening, sending our servants along in that
"happy-go-lucky" fashion which characterises Indian life.

On the following day, therefore, we found ourselves at Pegnugger, surrounded by shikarries
and provided with every instrument of the chase that the ingenuity of man and the foresight
of Isaacs and Ghyrkins could provide. There were numbers of tents, sleeping tents, cooking
tents, and servants' tents; guns and ammunition of every calibre likely to be useful; kookries,
broad strong weapons not unlike the famous American bowie knives (which are all made in Sheffield,
to the honour, glory, and gain, of British trade); there were huge packs of provisions edible
and potable; baskets of utensils for the kitchen and the table, and piles of blankets and tenting
gear for the camp. There was also the little collector of Pegnugger, whose small body housed
a stout heart, for he had shot tigers on foot before now in company with a certain German doctor
of undying sporting fame, whose big round spectacles seemed to direct his bullets with unerring
precision. But the doctor was not here now, and so the sturdy Englishman condescended to accept
a seat in the howdah, and to kill his game with somewhat less risk than usual.

This first day was occupied in transferring our party, now swelled by countless beaters and
numerous huntsmen, not to mention all the retinue of servants necessary for an Indian camp,
to the neighbourhood of the battlefield. There is not much conversation on these occasions,
for the party is apt to become scattered, and there is a general tone of expectancy in the
air, the old hands conversing more with the natives who know the district than with each other,
and the young ones either wondering how many tigers they will kill, or listening open mouthed
to the tales of adventure reeled off by the yard by the old bearded shikarry, who has slain
the king of the jungle with a kookrie in hand to hand struggle when he was young, and bears
the scars of the deadly encounter on his brown chest to this day. Old Ghyrkins, who was evidently
in his element, rode about on a little tat, questioning beaters and shikarries, and coming
back every now and then to bawl up some piece of information to the little collector, who had
established himself on one of the elephants and looked down over the edge of the howdah, the
great pith hat on his head making him look like an immense mushroom with a very thin stem sprouting
suddenly from the back of the huge beast. He smiled pleasantly at the old sportsman from his
elevation, and seemed to know all about it. It so chanced that when he received Isaacs' telegrams
he had been planning a little excursion on his own account, and had been sending out scouts
and beaters for some days to ascertain where the game lay. This, of course, was so much clear
gain to us, and the little man was delighted at the opportune coincidence which enabled him,
by the unlimited money supplied, to join in such a hunt as he had not seen since the time when
the Prince of Wales disported himself among the royal game, three years before. As for Miss
Westonhaugh, she was in the gayest of spirits, as she sat with her brother on an elephant's
back, while Isaacs, who loved the saddle, circled round her and kept up a fire of little compliments
and pretty speeches, to which she was fast becoming inured. Kildare and I followed them closely
on another elephant, discoursing seriously about the hunt, and occasionally shouting some question
to John Westonhaugh, ahead, about sport in the south.

Before evening we had arrived at our first camping ground, near a small village on the outskirts
of the jungle, and the tents were pitched on a little elevation covered with grass, now green
and waving. The men had mowed a patch clear, and were busy with the pegs and all the paraphernalia
of a canvas house, and we strolled about, some of us directing the operations, others offering
a sacrifice of cooling liquids and tobacco to the setting sun. Miss Westonhaugh had heard about
living in tents ever since she came to India, and had often longed to sleep in one of those
temporary chambers that are set up anywhere in the "compound" of an English bungalow for the
accommodation of the bachelor guests whom the house itself is too small to hold; now she was
enchanted at the prospect of a whole fortnight under canvas, and watched with rapt interest
the driving of the pegs, the raising of the poles, and the careful furnishing of her dwelling.
There was a carpet, and armchairs, and tables, and even a small bookcase with a few favourite
volumes. To us in civilised life it seems a great deal of trouble to transport a lunch basket
and a novel to some shady glen to enjoy a day's rest in the open air, and we would almost rather
starve than take the trouble to carry provisions. In India you speak the word, and as by magic
there arises in the wilderness a little village of tents, furnished with every necessary luxury--and
the luxuries necessary to our degenerate age are many--a kitchen tent is raised, and a skilled
dark-skinned artist provides you in an hour with a dinner such as you could eat in no hotel.
The treasures of the huge portable ice-chest reveal cooling wines and soda water to the thirsty
soul, and if you are going very far beyond the reach of the large towns, a small ice-machine
is kept at work day and night to increase the supply while you sleep, and to maintain it while
you wake. But long-swaying custom hath far-reaching issues, The hand that assails it doth ill
to show haste. The knife that would search poor humanity's tissues, Hath healing for object,
not ravage or waste.

Not coldness, but coolness, sound policy pleads for, But, subject
to that, human sympathies yearn To aid the child-victim the woman's
heart bleeds for, For whom a man's breast with compassion must burn.

Poor child!

The dark shadow that closely pursues her Means menacing Terror; she
sues for a shield, And how shall the strong Ægis-bearer refuse her?

The bondage of caste to calm justice must yield.

We dare not be deaf to the voice of the pleader For freedom and purity,
nature and right; Let Wisdom, high-throned as controller and leader,
Meet cruelty's steel with the shield of calm might!

* * * * *

MY MOTHER BIDS ME DYE MY HAIR.

[Auburn is said to be the present fashionable colour in hair.]

My Mother bids me dye my hair A lovely auburn hue, She says I ought to be aware It's quite the thing
to do.

"Why sit," she cries, "without a smile, Whilst others dance instead?"
Alas! no partners ask me while My tresses are not red.

When no one else at all is near, And I am quite alone, I sadly shed a
bitter tear To think the Season's gone.

But when the time again draws nigh, The time when maidens wed, I'm quite
resolved to "do and dye"-- My tresses shall be red!

I don't exactly know how I got mixed up with it, but I found myself somehow
"fixed," as our American cousins would say, to join a party who were
going to see Old JEPHSON (the Q.C.), who had broken "down," or broken
"up," or had gone through some mental and physical smashing process
or other, that necessitated an immediate recourse to mountain air,--to
where he could get it of the right sort and quality with as little
strain or tax on his somewhat shattered nerves as might be compatible
with a dash into the heart of Switzerland at the fag-end of the swarming
tourists' season.

"Murren will be too high for him: distinctly too high for him," thoughtfully observed
the distinguished specialist who had been called in, and had at once prescribed
the "air tonic" in question; "and the Burgenstock would be too low. His
condition requires an elevation of about 3500 feet. Let me see. Ha! Engelberg
is the place for him. My dear lady," he continued, addressing Mrs. JEPHSON,
who had already imbibed the theory that every altitude, from Primrose
Hill to Mont Blanc, suited its special ailment, the only thing necessary
being to hit on the right one, "My dear lady, get your good husband
to Engelberg at once. Then he threw it away with a small volley of harmless
expletives, and swore he would go to bed, as he could not stand our dulness any longer; but
he merely shifted his position a little, and was soon snoring merrily.

"What a pity it is we have no piano, Katharine," said John Westonhaugh, who was fond of music.
"Could you not sing something without any accompaniment?"

"Oh no. Mr. Isaacs," she said, turning her voice to where she could see the light of his cigarette
and the faint outline of his chair in the starlight, "here we are in the camp. Now where is
the 'lute' you promised to produce for us? I think the time has come at last for you to keep
your promise."

"Well," said he, "I believe there really is an old guitar or something of the kind among my
traps somewhere. But it might wake Mr. Ghyrkins, who, I understand from his tones, is asleep."

Various opinions were expressed to the effect that Mr. Ghyrkins was not so easily disturbed,
and a voice like Kildare's was heard to mumble that "it would not hurt him if he was," a sentence
no one attempted to construe. So the faithful Narain was summoned, and instructed to bring
the instrument if he could find it. I was rather surprised at Isaacs' readiness to sing; but
in the first place I had never heard him, and besides I did not make allowance for the Oriental
courtesy of his character, which would not refuse anything, or make any show of refusal in
order to be pressed. Narain returned with a very modern-looking guitar-case, and, opening the
box, presented his master with the instrument, which, as Isaacs took it to the light in the
door of the tent to see if it had travelled safely, appeared to be a perfectly new German guitar.
I suspected him of having purchased it at the little music shop at Simla, for the especial
amusement of our party.

"I thought it was a lute you played on," said Miss Westonhaugh, "a real, lovely, ancient Assyrian
lute, or something of that kind." 

Mr. Pullwool's usually dull and, so to speak, extinct countenance was fairly alight and aflame
with exultation. It was almost a wonder that his tallowy person did not gutter beneath the
blaze, like an over-fat candle under the flaring of a wick too large
for it.

"Well, I'll bring in the bill," agreed Mr. Dicker, catching the enthusiasm
of his counsellor and shaking off his lethargy.

He perceived a dim promise of fees, and at the sight his load of despondency
dropped away from him, as Christian's burden loosened in presence of
the cross. He looked a little like the confident, resolute Tom Dicker,
who twenty years before had graduated from college the brightest,
bravest, most eloquent fellow in his class, and the one who seemed
to have before him the finest future.

"Snacks!" said Mr. Pullwool.

At this brazen word Mr. Dicker's countenance fell again; he was ashamed
to talk so frankly about plundering his fellow-citizens; "a little
grain of conscience turned him sour."

"I will take pay for whatever I can do as a lawyer," he stammered.

"Get out!" laughed the Satanic one. "You just take all there is a-going!

    You need it bad enough.
    
    I know when a man's hard
    up. I know the signs. I've been as bad off as you; had to look all ways for
    five dollars; had to play second fiddle
    
    and say thanky. But what I offer you ain't a second fiddle. It's as good
    a chance as my
    own. Even divides. One half to you and one half to me. You know the people
    and I know
    the ropes. It's a fair bargain. What do you say?"
    
    Mr. Dicker thought of his decayed practice
    and his unpaid bills; and flipping overboard his little grain
    of conscience, he said, "Snacks."

"All right," grinned Pullwool, his teeth gleaming alarmingly. "Word of a gentleman," he added, extending
his pulpy hand, loaded with ostentatious rings, and grasping Dicker's
recoiling fingers.

"Harness up your little bill as quick as you can, and drive it like
Jehu.

Fastburg to be the only capital. Slowburg no claims at all, historical, geographical, or economic.
The old arrangement a humbug; as inconvenient as a fifth wheel of
a coach; costs the State thousands of greenbacks every year.

Figure it all up statistically and dab it over with your shiniest
rhetoric and make a big thing of it every way.

That's what you've got to do; that's your little biz. I'll tend to the
rest."

"I don't quite see where the money is to come from," observed Mr. Dicker.

"Leave that to me," said the veteran of the lobbies; "my name is Pullwool,
and I know how to pull the wool over men's eyes, and then I know how
to get at their britches-pockets. You bring in your bill and make your
speech. Will you do it?"

"Yes," answered Dicker, bolting all scruples in another half tumbler
of brandy.

He kept his word. As promptly as parliamentary forms and mysteries would
allow, there was a bill under the astonished noses of honorable lawgivers,
removing the seat of legislation from Slowburg and centring it in
Fastburg. This bill Mr. Thomas Dicker supported with that fluency
and fiery enthusiasm of oratory which had for a time enabled him to
show as the foremost man of his State. Great was the excitement, great
the rejoicing and anger. The press of Fastburg sent forth shrieks
of exultation, and the press of Slowburg responded with growlings
of disgust. The two capitals and the two geographical sections which
they represented were ready to fire Parrott guns at each other, without
regard to life and property in the adjoining regions of the earth.
If there was a citizen of the little Commonwealth who did not hear
of this bill and did not talk of it, it was because that citizen was
as deaf as a post and as dumb as an oyster.

"I cannot translate these things," said Isaacs, "so as to do them justice, or give you any
idea of the strength and vitality of the Persian verses. Perhaps Griggs, who understands Persian
very well and is a literary man, may do it for you. I would rather not try." I professed my
entire inability to comply with the request, and to turn the conversation asked him where he
had learned to play the guitar so well.

"Oh," he answered, "in Istamboul, years ago. Everybody plays in Istamboul--and most people
sing love-songs. Besides it is so easy," and he ran scales up and down the strings with marvellous
rapidity to illustrate what he said.

"And do you never sing English songs, Mr. Isaacs?" asked the collector of Pegnugger, who was
enchanted, not having heard a note of music for months.

"Oh, sometimes," he answered. "I think I could sing 'Drink to me only with thine eyes'--do
you know it?" He began to play the melody on the guitar while he spoke.

"Rather--I should think so!" Kildare was heard to say. He was beginning to think the concert
had lasted long enough.

"Oh, do sing it, Mr. Isaacs," said the young girl, "and my brother and I will join in. It will
be so pretty!"

It certainly sounded very sweetly as he gave the melody in his clear, high tones, and Miss
Westonhaugh and John sang with him. Having heard it several thousand times myself, I was beginning
to recognise the tune well enough to enjoy it a good deal.

"That is very nice," said Kildare, who was sorry he had made an impatient remark before, and
wanted to atone.

"Eh? what? how's that?" said Mr. Ghyrkins just waking up. "Oh! of course. My niece sings charmingly.
Quite an artist, you know." And he struggled out of his chair and said it was high time we
all went to bed if we meant to shoot straight in the morning. The magistrate of Pegnugger concurred
in the opinion, and we reluctantly separated for the night to our respective quarters, Isaacs
and I occupying a tent together, which he had caused to be sent on from Delhi, as being especially
adapted to his comfort.

On the following day at dawn we were roused by the sound of preparations, and before we were
dressed the voices of Mr. Currie Ghyrkins and the collector were heard in the camp, stirring
up the sleepy servants and ordering us to be waked. The two old sportsmen felt it their duty
to be first on such an occasion as this, and in the calm security that they would do everything
that was right, Isaacs and I discussed our tea and fruit--the chota haziri or "little breakfast"
usually taken in India on waking--sitting in the door of our tent, while Kiramat Ali and Narain
and Mahmoud and the rest of the servants were giving a final rub to the weapons of the chase,
and making all the little preparations for a long day. And we sat looking out and sipping our tea.

In the cool of the dawn Miss Westonhaugh came tripping across the wet grass to where her uncle
was giving his final directions about the furnishing of his howdah for the day; a lovely apparition
of freshness in the gray morning, all dressed in dark blue, a light pith helmet-shaped hat
pressing the rebellious white-gold hair almost out of sight. She walked so easily it seemed
as if her dainty little feet had wings, as Hermes' of old, to ease the ground of their feather
weight. A broad belt hung across her shoulder with little rows of cartridges set all along,
and at the end hung a very business-like revolver case of brown leather and of goodly length.
No toy miniature pistol would she carry, but a full-sized, heavy "six-shooter," that might
really be of use at close quarters. "I wonder my Lord Chesterfield associates with such a villain!"
called out Harry from his table. The other couple of diners looked at him. To his surprise the
nobleman so addressed went on talking.

"There cannot be a more fieffe coquin than this Poellnitz.

Why, Heaven be thanked, he has actually left me my snuff-box! You
laugh?--the fellow is capable of taking it." And my lord thought it was his
own satire at which the young men were laughing.

"You are quite right, sir," said one of the two diners, turning to Mr. Warrington,
"though, saving your presence, I don't know what business it is of
yours.

My lord will play with anybody who will set him. Don't be alarmed, he is as
deaf as a post, and did not hear a word that you said; and that's
why my lord will play with anybody who will put a pack of cards before
him, and that is the reason why he consorts with this rogue."

"Faith, I know other noblemen who are not particular as to their company,"
says Mr. Jack.

"Do you mean because I associate with you?

I know my company, my good friend, and I defy most men to have the better of me."

Not having paid the least attention to Mr. Warrington's angry interruption, my lord opposite was talking
in his favourite French with Monsieur Barbeau, the landlord, and
graciously complimenting him on his dinner.

The host bowed again and again; was enchanted that his Excellency
was satisfied: had not forgotten the art which he had learned when
he was a young man in his Excellency's kingdom of Ireland.

The salmi was to my lord's liking? He had just served a dish to the young American seigneur who sate opposite,
the gentleman from Virginia.

"To whom?"

My lord's
pale face became red for a moment, as he asked this question, and looked towards Harry Warrington,
opposite to him.

"To the young gentleman from Virginia who has just arrived, and who
perfectly possesses our beautiful language!" says Mr. Barbeau, thinking
to kill two birds, as it were, with this one stone of a compliment.

"And to whom your lordship will be answerable for language reflecting
upon my family, and uttered in the presence of these gentlemen,"
cried out Mr. Warrington, at the top of his voice, determined that
his opponent should hear.

"You must go and call into his ear, and then he may perchance hear you," said one of the younger guests.

"I
will take care that his lordship shall understand my meaning, one way or other," Mr. Warrington said,
with much dignity; "and will not suffer calumnies regarding my relatives to be uttered by him or any other
man!"

Whilst Harry was speaking, the little nobleman opposite to him did
not hear him, but had time sufficient to arrange his own reply.

He had risen, passing his handkerchief once or twice across his mouth,
and laying his slim fingers on the table. "Sir," said he, "you will
believe, on the word of a gentleman, that I had no idea before whom
I was speaking, and it seems that my acquaintance, Monsieur de Poellnitz,
knew you no better than myself.

Had I known you, believe me that I should have been the last man
in the world to utter a syllable that should give you annoyance; and
I tender you my regrets and apologies, before my Lord March and Mr.
Morris here present."

To these words, Mr. Warrington could only make a bow, and mumble out a few words of acknowledgment: which
speech having made believe to hear, my lord made Harry another very profound bow,
and saying he should have the honour of waiting upon Mr. Warrington
at his lodgings, saluted the company, and went away.

CHAPTER XXVI.

In which we are at a very
Great Distance from Oakhurst

Within the precinct of the White Horse Tavern, and coming up to the
windows of the eating-room, was a bowling-green, with a table or two,
where guests might sit and partake of punch or tea.

The three gentlemen having come to an end of their dinner about the same time, Mr. Morris proposed
that they should adjourn to the Green, and there drink a cool bottle. "Jack Morris would adjourn to the
Dust Hole, as a pretext for a fresh drink," said my lord.

On which Jack said he supposed each gentleman had his own favourite
way of going to the deuce.

His weakness, he owned, was a bottle.

"My Lord Chesterfield's deuce is deuce-ace," says my Lord March. "His lordship can't keep away from the cards
or dice."

"My Lord March has not one devil, but several devils.

He loves gambling, he loves horse-racing, he loves betting, he loves drinking, he loves eating, he
loves money, he loves women; and you have fallen into bad company,
Mr. Warrington, when you lighted upon his lordship.

He will play you for every acre you have in Virginia."

"With the greatest pleasure in life, Mr. Warrington!" interposes my
lord.

"And for all your tobacco, and for all your spices, and for all your
slaves, and for all your oxen and asses, and for everything that is
yours."

"Shall we begin now?

Jack, you are never without a dice-box or a bottle-screw. I will set Mr. Warrington for what he
likes."

"Unfortunately, my lord, the tobacco, and the slaves, and the asses,
and the oxen, are not mine, as yet.

I
am just of age, and my mother, scarce twenty years older, has quite
as good chance of long life as I have."

"I will bet you that you survive her.

I will pay you a sum now against four times the sum to be paid at her death. I will set you a fair
sum over this table against the reversion of your estate in Virginia
at the old lady's departure.

What do you call your place?"

"Castlewood."

       "A principality, I hear it is.

I will bet that its value has been exaggerated ten times at least
amongst the quidnuncs here.

How came
you by the name of Castlewood?--you are related to my lord? Oh, stay:
I know,--my lady, your mother, descends from the real head of the
house.

He took the losing side in '15. I have had the story a dozen times from
my old Duchess.

She knew your grandfather. He was friend of Addison and Steele, and Pope
and Milton, I dare say, and the bigwigs.

It is a pity he did not stay at home, and transport the other branch
of the family to the plantations."

"I have just been staying at Castlewood with my cousin there," remarked
Mr. Warrington.

"Hm! Did you play with him? He's fond of pasteboard and bones."

"Never, but for sixpences and a pool of commerce with the ladies."

"So
much the better for both of you. But you played with Will Esmond
if he was at home?

I will lay ten to one you played with Will Esmond."

Harry blushed, and owned that of an evening his cousin and he had had
a few games at cards.

"And Tom Sampson, the chaplain," cried Jack Morris, "was he of the
party?

I wager that Tom made a third, and the Lord deliver you from Tom
and Will Esmond together!"

"Nay; the truth is, I won of both of them," said Mr. Warrington.

"And they paid you? Well, miracles will never cease!"

"I did not say anything about miracles," remarked Mr. Harry, smiling
over his wine.

"And you don't tell tales out of school--the volto sciolto--hey, Mr.
Warrington?" says my lord.

"I beg your pardon," said downright Harry, "French is the only language
besides my own of which I know a little."

"My Lord March has learned Italian at the Opera, and a pretty penny
his lessons have cost him," remarked Jack Morris. "We must show him
the Opera--mustn't we, March?"

"Must we, Morris?" said my lord, as if he only half liked the other's
familiarity.

Both of the two gentlemen were dressed alike, in small scratch-wigs without
powder, in blue frocks with plate buttons, in buckskins and riding-boots,
in little hats with a narrow cord of lace, and no outward mark of
fashion.

"I don't care about the Opera much, my lord," says Harry, warming
with his wine; "but I should like to go to Newmarket, and long to
see a good English hunting-field."

"We will show you Newmarket and the hunting-field, sir. Can you ride pretty well?"

"I think I can," Harry said; "and I can shoot pretty well, and jump
some."

"What's your weight? I bet you we weigh even, or I weigh most. I bet
you Jack Morris beats you at birds or a mark, at five-and-twenty
paces.

I bet you I jump farther than you on flat ground, here on this green."

"I
don't know Mr. Morris's shooting--I never saw either gentleman before--but
I take your bets, my lord, at what you please," cries Harry, who
by this time was more than warm with Burgundy.

"Ponies on each!" cried my lord.

"Done and done!" cried my lord and Harry together. The young man thought
it was for the honour of his country not to be ashamed of any bet
made to him.

"We can try the last bet now, if your feet are pretty steady," said my lord, springing up, stretching his arms
and limbs, and looking at the crisp, dry grass. He drew his boots
off, then his coat and waistcoat, buckling his belt round his waist, and
flinging his clothes down to the ground.

Harry had more respect for his garments. It was his best suit. He took off the
velvet coat and waistcoat, folded them up daintily, and, as the two
or three tables round were slopped with drink, went to place the clothes
on a table in the eating-room, of which the windows were open.

Here a new guest had entered; and this was no other than Mr. Wolfe,
who was soberly eating a chicken and salad, with a modest pint of
wine.

Harry was in high spirits. He told the Colonel he had a bet with my Lord
March--would Colonel Wolfe stand him halves? The Colonel said he was
too poor to bet. Would he come out and see fair play?

That he would with all his heart. Colonel Wolfe set down his glass, and stalked through the open window
after his young friend.

"Who is that tallow-faced Put with the carroty hair?" says Jack Morris,
on whom the Burgundy had had its due effect.

Mr. Warrington explained that this was Lieutenant-Colonel Wolfe, of
the 20th Regiment.

"Your humble servant, gentlemen!" says the Colonel, making the company
a rigid military bow.

"Never saw such a figure in my life!" cries Jack Morris. "Did you--March?"

"I
beg your pardon, I think you said March?" said the Colonel, looking
very much surprised.

"I am the Earl of March, sir, at Colonel Wolfe's service," said the nobleman, bowing. "My friend,
Mr. Morris, is so intimate with me, that, after dinner, we are quite
like brothers."

Why is not all Tunbridge Wells by to hear this? thought Morris. And he
was so delighted that he shouted out, "Two to one on my lord!"

"Done!" calls out Mr. Warrington; and the enthusiastic Jack was obliged to
cry "Done!" too.

"Take him, Colonel," Harry whispers to his friend.

But the Colonel said he could not afford to lose, and therefore could not hope to win.

"I see you have won one of our bets already, Mr. Warrington," my Lord
March remarked.

"I am taller than you by an inch or two, but you are broader round the
shoulders."

"Pooh, my dear Will! I bet you you weigh twice as much as he does!"
cries Jack Morris.

"Done, Jack!" says my lord, laughing. "The bets are all ponies. Will you take him, Mr. Warrington?"

"No, my dear fellow--one's enough," says Jack.

"Very good, my dear fellow," says my lord; "and now we will settle
the other wager."

Having already arrayed himself in his best silk stockings, black satin-net
breeches, and neatest pumps, Harry did not care to take off his shoes as
his antagonist had done, whose heavy riding-boots and spurs were, to
be sure, little calculated for leaping. They had before them a fine
even green turf of some thirty yards in length, enough for a run
and enough for a jump.

A gravel walk ran around this green,
beyond which was a wall and gate-sign--a field azure, bearing the Hanoverian
White Horse rampant between two skittles proper, and for motto the
name of the landlord and of the animal depicted.

My lord's friend laid a handkerchief on the ground as the mark whence the
leapers were to take their jump, and Mr. Wolfe stood at the other end of the grass-plat
to note the spot where each came down. "My lord went first," writes
Mr. Warrington, in a letter to Mrs. Mountain, at Castlewood, Virginia, still
extant. "He was for having me take the lead; but, remembering the story
about the Battel of Fontanoy which my dearest George used to tell, I says,
'Monseigneur le Comte, tirez le premier, s'il vous play.' So he took
his run in his stocken feet, and for the honour of Old Virginia,
I had the gratafacation of beating his lordship by more than two feet--viz.,
two feet nine inches--me jumping twenty-one feet three inches, by the drawer's
measured tape, and his lordship only eighteen six. I had won from him
about my weight before (which I knew the moment I set my eye upon him).
So he and Mr. Jack paid me these two betts.

And with my
best duty to my mother--she will not be displeased with me, for I bett
for the honor of the Old Dominion, and my opponent was a nobleman of the
first quality, himself holding two Erldomes, and heir to a Duke. Betting is
all the rage here, and the bloods and young fellows of fashion are
betting away from morning till night.

"I told them--and that was my mischief perhaps--that there was a gentleman
at home who could beat me by a good foot; and when they asked who
it was, and I said Col. G. Washington, of Mount Vernon--as you know
he can, and he's the only man in his county or mine that can do it--Mr.
Wolfe asked me ever so many questions about Col. G. W., and showed
that he had heard of him, and talked over last year's unhappy campane
as if he knew every inch of the ground, and he knew the names of all
our rivers, only he called the Potowmac Pottamac, at which we had
a good laugh at him.

My Lord of March and Ruglen was not in the least ill-humour about
losing, and he and his friend handed me notes out of their pocket-books,
which filled mine that was getting very empty, for the vales to the
servants at my cousin Castlewood's house and buying a horse at Oakhurst
have very nearly put me on the necessity of making another draft upon
my honoured mother or her London or Bristol agent."

These feats of activity over, the four gentlemen now strolled out of the tavern
garden into the public walk, where, by this time, a great deal of
company was assembled: upon whom Mr. Jack, who was of a frank and
free nature, with a loud voice, chose to make remarks that were not
always agreeable.

And here, if my Lord March made a joke, of which his lordship was not sparing, Jack
roared, "Oh, ho, ho! Oh, good Gad! Oh, my dear earl! Oh, my dear lord, you'll
be the death of me!" "It seemed as if he wished everybody to know," writes
Harry sagaciously to Mrs. Mountain, "that his friend and companion was
an Erl!"

There was, indeed, a great variety of characters who passed.

M. Poellnitz, no finer dressed than he had been at dinner, grinned,
and saluted with his great laced hat and tarnished feathers. Then came by my Lord Chesterfield,
in a pearl-coloured suit, with his blue ribbon and star, and saluted the
young men in his turn.

"I will back the old boy for taking his hat off against the whole
kingdom, and France either," says my Lord March.

"He has never changed the shape of that hat of his for twenty years.
Look at it.

There it goes again! Do you see that great, big,
awkward, pock-marked, snuff-coloured man, who hardly touches his
clumsy beaver in reply.

D---- his confounded impudence--do you know who that is?"

"No, curse him!

Who is it, March?" asks Jack, with an oath.

"It's one Johnson, a Dictionary-maker, about whom my Lord Chesterfield
wrote some most capital papers, when his dixonary was coming out,
to patronise the fellow. I know they were capital.

I've heard Horry Walpole say so, and he knows all about that kind of
thing.

Confound the impudent schoolmaster!"

"Hang him, he ought to stand in the pillory!" roars Jack.

"That fat man he's walking with is another of your writing fellows,--a
printer,--his name is Richardson; he wrote Clarissa, you know."

"Great heavens! my lord, is that the great Richardson?

Is that the man who wrote Clarissa?" called out Colonel Wolfe and Mr.
Warrington, in a breath.

Harry ran forward to look at the old gentleman toddling along the
walk with a train of admiring ladies surrounding him.

"Indeed, my very dear sir," one was saying, "you are too great and good
to live in such a world; but sure you were sent to teach it virtue!"

"Ah, my Miss Mulso!

Who shall teach the teacher?"
said the good, fat old man, raising a kind, round face skywards. "Even he
has his faults and errors! Even his age and experience does not prevent
him from stumbl---. Heaven bless my soul, Mr. Johnson! I ask your pardon
if I have trodden on your corn."

"You have done both, sir. You have trodden on the corn, and received the
pardon," said Mr. Johnson, and went on mumbling some verses, swaying
to and fro, his eyes turned towards the ground, his hands behind him,
and occasionally endangering with his great stick the honest, meek
eyes of his companion-author.

"They do not
see very well, my dear Mulso," he says to the young lady, "but such
as they are, I would keep my lash from Mr. Johnson's cudgel. Your servant,
sir." Here he made a low bow, and took off his hat to Mr. Warrington, who
shrank back with many blushes, after saluting the great author.

The great author was accustomed to be adored. A gentler wind never puffed
mortal vanity. Enraptured spinsters flung tea-leaves round him, and incensed
him with the coffee-pot. Matrons kissed the slippers they had worked
for him. There was a halo of virtue round his nightcap. All Europe had thrilled,
panted, admired, trembled, wept, over the pages of the immortal little,
kind, honest man with the round paunch.

Harry came back quite
glowing and proud at having a bow from him. "Ah!" says he, "my lord,
I am glad to have seen him!"

"Seen him! why, dammy, you may see him
any day in his shop, I suppose?" says Jack, with a laugh.

"My brother
declared that he, and Mr. Fielding, I think, was the name, were the
greatest geniuses in England; and often used to say, that when we
came to Europe, his first pilgrimage would be to Mr. Richardson,"
cried Harry, always impetuous, honest, and tender, when he spoke of
the dearest friend.

"Your brother spoke like a man," cried Mr. Wolfe,
too, his pale face likewise flushing up. "I would rather be a man
of genius, than a peer of the realm."

"Every man to his taste, Colonel,"
says my lord, much amused. "Your enthusiasm--I don't mean anything
personal--refreshes me, on my honour it does."

"So it does me--by
gad--perfectly refreshes me," cries Jack

"So it does Jack--you see--it
actually refreshes Jack! I say, Jack, which would you rather be?--a
fat old printer," who has written a story about a confounded girl
and a fellow that ruins her,--or a peer of Parliament with ten thousand
a year?"

"March--my Lord March, do you take me for a fool?" says
Jack, with a tearful voice. "Have I done anything to deserve this
language from you?"

"I would rather win honour than honours: I would
rather have genius than wealth. I would rather make my name than inherit
it, though my father's, thank God, is an honest one," said the young
Colonel. "But pardon me, gentlemen," and here making, them a hasty
salutation, he ran across the parade towards a young and elderly lady
and a gentleman, who were now advancing.

"It is the beautiful Miss
Lowther. I remember now," says my lord. "See! he takes her arm! The
report is, he is engaged to her."

"You don't mean to say such a fellow
is engaged to any of the Lowthers of the North?" cries out Jack. "Curse
me, what is the world come to, with your printers, and your half-pay
ensigns, and your schoolmasters, and your infernal nonsense?"

The
Dictionary-maker, who had shown so little desire to bow to my Lord
Chesterfield, when that famous nobleman courteously saluted him, was
here seen to take off his beaver, and bow almost to the ground, before
a florid personage in a large round hat, with bands and a gown, who
made his appearance in the Walk. This was my Lord Bishop of Salisbury,
wearing complacently the blue riband and badge of the Garter, of which
Noble Order his lordship was prelate.

Mr. Johnson stood, hat in hand,
during the whole time of his conversation with Dr. Gilbert; who made
many flattering and benedictory remarks to Mr. Richardson, declaring
that he was the supporter of virtue, the preacher of sound morals,
the mainstay of religion, of all which points the honest printer himself
was perfectly convinced.

Do not let any young lady trip to her grandpapa's
bookcase in consequence of this eulogium, and rashly take down Clarissa
from the shelf. She would not care to read the volumes, over which
her pretty ancestresses wept and thrilled a hundred years ago; which
were commended by divines from pulpits and belauded all Europe over.
I wonder, are our women more virtuous than their grandmothers, or
only more squeamish? If the former, then Miss Smith of New York is
certainly more modest than Miss Smith of London, who still does not
scruple to say that tables, pianos, and animals have legs. Oh, my
faithful, good old Samuel Richardson! Hath the news yet reached thee
in Hades that thy sublime novels are huddled away in corners, and
that our daughters may no more read Clarissa than Tom Jones? Go up,
Samuel, and be reconciled with thy brother-scribe, whom in life thou
didst hate so. "I am very glad myself.
Do you know I have a superstition that I must fulfil every wish of--like that--even half expressed,
to the very letter?"

"The 'superstition,' as you call it, is worthy of the bravest knight that ever laid lance in
rest. Don't part with superstitions like that. They are noble and generous things."

"Perhaps," he answered, "but I really am very superstitious," he added, as he turned into the
bathing connât. Soon I heard him splashing among the water jars.

"By-the-bye, Griggs," he called out through the canvas, "I forgot to tell you. They are bringing
that beast home on an elephant. It was much nearer than we supposed. They will be here in twenty
minutes." A tremendous splashing interrupted him. "You can go and attend to that funeral you
were talking about last night," he added, and his voice was again drowned in the swish and
souse of the water. "He was rather large--over ten feet--I should say. Measure him as soon
as he--" another cascade completed the sentence. I went out, taking the measuring tape from
the table.

In a few minutes the procession appeared. Two or three matutinal shikarries had gone out and
come back, followed by the elephant, for which Isaacs had sent the ryot at full speed the moment
he was sure the beast was dead. And so they came up the little hill behind the dining-tent.
The great tusker moved evenly along, bearing on the pad an enormous yellow carcass, at which
the little mahout glanced occasionally over his shoulder. Astride of the dead king sat the
ryot, who had directed Isaacs, crooning a strange psalm of victory in his outlandish northern
dialect, and occasionally clapping his hands over his head with an expression of the most intense
satisfaction I have ever seen on a human face. The little band came to the middle of the camp
where the other tigers, now cut up and skinned elsewhere, had been deposited the night before,
and as the elephant knelt down, the shikarries pulled the whole load over, pad, tiger, ryot
and all, the latter skipping nimbly aside. There he lay, the great beast that had taken so
many lives. We stretched him out and measured him--eleven feet from the tip of his nose to
the end of his tail, all but an inch--as a little more straightening fills the measure, eleven
feet exactly.

Meanwhile, the servant and shikarries collected, and the noise of the exploit went abroad.
The sun was just rising when Mr. Ghyrkins put his head out of his tent and wanted to know "what
the deuce all this tamäsha was about."

"Oh, nothing especial," I called out. "Isaacs has killed an eleven foot man-eater in the night.
That is all."

"Well I'm damned," said Mr. Ghyrkins briefly, and to the point, as he stared from his tent
at the great carcass, which lay stretched out for all to see, the elephant having departed.

"Clear off those fellows and let me have a look at him, can't you?" he called out, gathering
the tent curtains round his neck; and there he stood, his jolly red face and dishevelled gray
hair looking as if they had no body attached at all.

I went back to our quarters. Isaacs was putting the ears, which he had carefully cleansed from
blood, into a silver box of beautiful workmanship, which Narain had extracted from his master's
numerous traps.

"Take that box to Miss Westonhaugh's tent," he said, giving it to the servant, "with a greeting
from me--with 'much peace.'" The man went out.

"She will send the box back," said I. "Such is the Englishwoman. She will take a pair of tiger's
ears that nearly cost you your life, and she would rather die than accept the bit of silver
in which you enclose them, without the 'permission of her uncle.'"

"I do not care," he said, "so long as she keeps the ears. But unless I am much mistaken, she
will keep the box too. She is not like other Englishwomen in the least."

I was not sure of that. We had some tea in the door of our tent, and Isaacs seemed hungry and
thirsty, as well he might be. Now that he was refreshed by bathing and the offices of the camp
barber, he looked much as usual, save that the extreme paleness I had noticed when he came
in had given place to a faint flush beneath the olive, probably due to his excitement, the
danger being past. As we sat there, the rest of the party, who had slept rather later than
usual after their fatigues of the previous day, came out one by one and stood around the dead
tiger, wondering at the tale told by the delighted ryot, who squatted at the beast's head to
relate the adventure to all comers. We could see the group from where we sat, in the shadow
of the connât, and the different expressions of the men as they came out. The little collector
of Pegnugger measured and measured again; Mr. Ghyrkins stood with his hands in his coat pockets
and his legs apart, then going to the other side he took up the same position again. Lord Steepleton
Kildare sauntered round and twirled his big moustache, saying nothing the while, but looking
rather serious. John Westonhaugh, who seemed to be the artistic genius of the party, sent for
a chair and made his servant hold an umbrella over him while he sketched the animal in his
notebook, and presently his sister came out, a big bunch of roses in her belt, and a broad
hat half hiding her face, and looked at the tiger and then round the party quickly, searching
for Isaacs. In her hand she held a little package wrapped in white tissue paper. I strolled
up to the group, leaving Isaacs in his tent. I thought I might as well play innocence.

"Of course," I remarked, "those fellows have bagged his ears as usual."

"They never omit that," said Ghyrkins.

"Oh no, uncle," broke in Miss Westonhaugh, "he gave them to me!"

"Who?" asked Ghyrkins, opening his little eyes wide.

"Mr. Isaacs. Did not he kill the tiger? He sent me the ears in a little silver box. Here it
is--the box, I mean. I am going to give it back to him, of course."

"How did Mr. Isaacs know you wanted them?" asked her uncle, getting red in the face.

"Why, we were talking about them last night before dinner, and he promised that if he shot
a tiger to-day he would give me the ears." Mr. Ghyrkins was redder and redder in the morning
sun. There was a storm of some kind brewing. We were collected together on the other side of
the dead tiger and exchanged all kinds of spontaneous civilities and remarks, not wishing to
witness Mr. Ghyrkins' wrath, nor to go away too suddenly. I heard the conversation, however,
for the old gentleman made no pretence of lowering his voice.

"And do you mean to say you let him go off like that? He must have been out all night. That
beast of a nigger says so. On foot, too. I say on foot! Do you know what you are talking about?
Eh? Shooting tigers on foot? What? Eh? Might have been killed as easily as not! And then what
would you have said? Eh? What? Upon my soul! You girls from home have no more hearts than a
parcel of old Juggernauts!" Ghyrkins was now furious. We edged away towards the dining-tent,
making a great talk about the terrible heat of the sun in the morning. I caught the beginning
of Miss Westonhaugh's answer. She had hardly appreciated the situation yet, and probably thought
her uncle was joking, but she spoke very coldly, being properly annoyed at his talking in such
a way.

"You cannot suppose for a moment that I meant him to go," I heard her say, and something else
followed in a lower tone. We then went into the dining-tent.

"Now look here, Katharine," Mr. Ghyrkins' irate voice rang across the open space, "if any young
woman asked me----" John Westonhaugh had risen from his chair and apparently interrupted his
uncle. Miss Westonhaugh walked slowly to her tent, while her male relations remained talking.
I thought Isaacs had shown some foresight in not taking part in the morning discussion. The
two men went into their tents together and the dead tiger lay alone in the grass, the sun rising
higher and higher, pouring down his burning rays on man and beast and green thing. And soon
the shikarries came with a small elephant and dragged the carcass away to be skinned and cut
up. Kildare and the collector said they would go and shoot some small game for dinner. Isaacs,
I supposed, was sleeping, and I was alone in the dining-tent. I shouted for Kiramat Ali and
sent for books, paper, and pens, and a hookah, resolved to have a quiet morning to myself,
since it was clear we were not going out to-day. I saw Ghyrkins' servant enter his tent with
bottles and ice, and I suspected the old fellow was going to cool his wrath with a "peg," and
would be asleep most of the morning. John would take a peg too, but he would not sleep in consequence,
being of Bombay, iron-headed and spirit-proof. So I read on and wrote, and was happy, for I
like the heat of the noon-day and the buzzing of the flies, and the smell of the parched grass,
being southern born.

About twelve o'clock, when I was beginning to think I had done enough work for one day, I saw
Miss Westonhaugh's native maid come out of her mistress's tent and survey the landscape, shading
her eyes with her hand. She was dressed, of course, in spotless white drapery, and there were
heavy anklets on her feet and bangles of silver on her wrist. She seemed satisfied by her inspection
and went in again, returning presently with Miss Westonhaugh and a large package of work and
novels and letter-writing materials. They came straight to where I was sitting under the airy
tent where we dined, and Miss Westonhaugh established herself at one side of the table at the
end of which I was writing.

"It is so hot in my tent," she said almost apologetically, and began to unroll some worsted work.

"Yes, it is quite unbearable," I answered politely, though I had not thought much about the
temperature. There was a long silence, and I collected my papers in a bundle and leaned back
in my chair. I did not know what to say, nor was anything expected of me. Shine, Liberty's Stars! your
dominion increase-- A guide in the battle, a blessing in peace!

"E PLURIBUS UNUM!"

And thus be, at last, From land unto land our broad banner cast,
Till its Stars, like the stars of the sky, be unfurled, In beauty
and glory, embracing the world!

* * * * *

DEVELOUR.

A SEQUEL TO "THE NIEBELUNGEN."

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES E. BLUMENTHAL.

CHAPTER I.

The twenty-second of February, 1848, found Paris in a condition which
only a Napoleon or a Washington could have controlled. The people felt
and acted like a lion conscious that his fetters are corroded, yet
still some what awed by the remembrance of the power which they once
exercised over him.

Poverty and want, licentious habits and irreligious feeling, had contributed
to bring about a ferocious discontent, which needed only the insidious
and inflammatory articles spread broadcast over the land by designing
men to fan into an insurrection.

Louis Philippe and his advisers exemplified the proverb Quem Deus vuls
perdere, prius dementas, determined upon closing one of the best safety-valves
of public discontent. The Reform Banquet had been prohibited, and
apparently well-planned military preparations had been made to meet
any possible hostile demonstrations, and to quench them at the outset.
Troops paraded through the city in every direction, and every prominent
place was occupied by squadrons of cavalry or squads of infantry.

Nevertheless, soon after breakfast the people collected at various points, at first in small numbers; but
gradually these swelled in size in proportion as they advanced to what
appeared the centre to which all were attracted, the Place de la
Concorde.

Shouts, laughter, and merriment were heard from all quarters of the crowd, and the moving masses appeared
more like a body of people going to some holiday amusement, than conspirators
bent upon the overthrow of a government.

Just as a detached body of these was passing through the Rue de Burgoigne,
a gentleman stepped out of one of the houses in that narrow street, and, partly
led by curiosity and partly by his zeal for the popular cause, joined
their ranks and advanced with them as far as the Palais du Corps
Legislatif, where they were met by a troop of dragoons, who endeavored
to disperse the crowd. Angry words were exchanged, and a few sabre blows
fell among the crowd.

One of the troopers, who seemed determined to check the advancing column, rode up to one who appeared
to be a leader, and, raising his sword, exclaimed, "Back, or I'll cleave
your skull!" But the youthful and athletic champion folded his arms, and,
without the slightest discomposure, replied, "Coward! strike an unarmed
man;--prove your courage!" The dragoon, without a reply, wheeled his horse,
and rode to another part of the square. Just at that moment, another
insolent trooper pressed his horse against the gentleman who had
joined the crowd in the Rue de Burgoigne.

The latter lifted his cane, and was about to chastise the soldier's insolence, when a man in a blouse
and a slouched hat resembling the Mexican sombrero, arrested his arm,
and whispered to him, "Do not strike! you are not in America: France
is not as yet the place to resent the insolence of a soldier." Irritated
at this unexpected interference, the gentleman endeavored to free
his arm from the vice-like grasp of the new-comer, while he exclaimed,
"Unhand me, sir!

A free American is everywhere a freeman; and these soldiers shall not prevent
me from proceeding and aiding the cause of an oppressed people." "Say rather
a hungry people," replied the other; and then added with a smile,
and in good English, "Has the quiet student of the Juniata been so
soon transformed into a fierce revolutionary partisan?

What would Captain Sanker say if he could see you thus turned into a hot-headed insurgent?"

"I have heard that voice before," replied the stranger. "Who are you,
that you are so familiar with me and my friends?"

"One who will guide and advise you in the storm that is now brewing,
which will soon overwhelm this goodly Nineveh, and in its course
shake a throne to its foundation.

But this is no place for explanations. Come--and on our way I will tell you who I am, and why I have
mingled with this people, that know hardly, as yet, what they are about to
do."

While saying this, he drew his companion into the Rue St. Dominique,
and disentangled him thus from the crowd, which, now no longer opposed
by the dragoons, moved onward towards the Pont de la Concorde.

After they had
crossed the Rue de Bac, they found the streets almost deserted, and then the man with the slouched
hat turned to his companion and said--

"Has Mr. Filmot already forgotten the pic-nic on the banks of the
Juniata, and the stranger guest whom he was good enough to invite
to his house?"

Mr. Filmot, for it was he whom we found just now about to take an active
part in the insurrection of the Parisian people, examined the features
of his interlocutor closely and rather distrustfully, and finally
exclaimed--"It cannot be that I see M. Develour in Paris and in this
strange disguise? for only yesterday I received a letter from Mr.
Karsh, in which he informs me that his friend is even now a sojourner
at the court of the Emperor of Austria."

"That letter was dated more than a month ago," replied Mr. Develour.

"I left the Prater city in the beginning of last month, and, it appears, have arrived just in
time to prevent Mr. Filmot from committing a very imprudent act,
which, by the way, you will recollect, was predicted to you in the
magic mirror.

Had you asked my advice before you left your native land to pursue your studies in the modern Nineveh,
I would have counseled you to wait for a more propitious season.
But, as soon as I heard of your presence in the city, I determined to
watch over you and to warn you, if your enthusiasm should lead you
to take too active a part in the deadly strife that awaits us here."

"You certainly do not think that a revolution is contemplated?" inquired Mr. Filmot.

"Come and see," replied Develour, while he continued his walk down the
Rue St. Dominique. They then passed through the Rue St. Marguerite,
and entered the Rue de Boucheries. About half way down the street they
stopped before a mean-looking house.

Develour rapped twice in quick succession at the door, and then,
after a short interval, once more, and louder than before, immediately
after the third rap, the door was partially and cautiously opened,
and some one asked, in an under tone, "What do you want?"

"To see the man of the red mountain," replied Develour, in the same
tone.

"What is your business?"

"To guide the boat."

"Where do you come from?"

"From the rough sea."

"And where do you wish to go to now?"

"To the still waters."

After this strange examination, the door was fully opened, and the doorkeeper said, "You may enter."
But when he saw Filmot about to accompany Develour, he stopped him,
and inquired by what right he expected to gain admission.

"By my invitation and introduction," said Develour, before Filmot had
time to speak.

"That may not be," replied the doorkeeper. "No one has a right to introduce another, except those
who have the word of the day."

"I have the word," said Develour; and then he whispered to him, "Not
Martin, but Albert."

After that he continued aloud, "Now go and announce me; we will wait
here in the vestibule."

As soon as the doorkeeper, after carefully locking the door, had withdrawn
into the interior of the house, Develour turned to his companion and
asked him, "Have you ever come across an account of the Red Man,
whom many believe to have exercised a great influence over the mind
of Napoleon?"

"I have read some curious statements concerning an individual designated
by that name; but have always considered them the inventions of an
exuberant imagination," replied Filmot.

"You will soon have an opportunity to form a more correct opinion. I hope
to have the pleasure, in a few minutes, to introduce you to him. As for
his claims to--"

Before Develour had time to finish the sentence, a side door opened
close by him, and a black boy, dressed in oriental costume, entered and
bowed, with his hands crossed over his breast, and then said to Develour,
in broken French, "The master told me to bid you welcome, and to
conduct you into the parlor, where he will join you in a few minutes."

* * * *

CHAPTER II.

Develour and Filmot followed their guide into a room fitted up in Eastern
style. Divans made of cushions piled one upon another were placed all
around the room, with small carpets spread before them.

Light stands of beautiful arabesque work were tastefully distributed in various places, and
in the centre played a small fountain fed by aromatic water. The lower
part of the room contained a recess, the interior of which was concealed
by a semi-transparent screen, which permitted the visitors to see
that it was lit up by a flame proceeding from an urn.

Heavy rich silk curtains, hung before the windows, excluded the glare of the
sun, and were so arranged that the light in the room resembled that given
by the moon when at its full. The atmosphere of the apartment was heavy with
the perfumes of exotic plants and costly essences.

The Moor requested them to be seated, and, again crossing his arms over his
breast, he bowed and left the room.

As soon as the door had closed behind him, Develour said to Filmot:
"It is reported that the Red Man appeared four times to Napoleon,
and each time, in order to expostulate with him about the course
he was pursuing; that, during each visit, he advised him what to do,
and accompanied his advice with the promise of success, in case he
would follow his counsel; and a threat of defeat if he persisted in
disregarding it.

The last visit which he paid to the Emperor was shortly before the battle of
Waterloo. Montholon was in the antechamber, when the man with the
red cloak entered his master's apartment. After renewed expostulations,
he urged the Emperor to make an overture to the allied powers, and
to promise that he would confine his claims to France, and pledge
himself not to attempt conquest beyond the Rhine.

When Napoleon, though half awed, rejected this advice with some irritation,
his visitor rose, and solemnly predicted to him a signal defeat in
the next great battle he would be compelled to fight; and, after that,
an expulsion from his empire; and then left the room as abruptly
as he had entered it.

"As soon as Napoleon had recovered from his surprise at the bold language
and the sudden departure of his strange monitor, he hastened into
the antechamber to call him back.

But no one but Montholon was in the room, who, when questioned by the Emperor concerning the man
who just left the cabinet, replied that, during the last half hour, no human being had passed
through the antechamber, to seek ingress or egress. The sentinels on the staircases and at the gates
were then examined, but they all declared that they had not seen
any stranger pass their respective posts.

Perplexed at this fruitless endeavor to recall the Red Man, Napoleon
returned to his cabinet mystified and gloomy, disturbed by his self
appointed monitor, and his predictions.

Shortly afterwards, he fought the battle of Waterloo, and saw the
prophecy fulfilled. He could never afterwards wholly divest himself
of the belief that the Man in Red, as he was called by the officers,
was an incarnation of his evil genius."

Before Develour had ceased speaking, a door opened in the the lower part of the
room, and an old man advanced, with a slow but firm step, towards the
two friends.

       The new-comer appeared to be a man of more than threescore years and
ten, though not a falter in his step, not the slightest curvature of his lofty
figure, evinced the approach of old age. He was a little above the middle
height, lofty in his carriage, and dignified in all his movements.

A high forehead gave an intellectual cast to a countenance habitually calm
and commanding, and to which long flowing silver locks imparted the look
of a patriarch ruler. He was dressed in a velvet morning-gown, which
was confined around his waist by a broad belt of satin, upon which
several formulas in Arabic were worked with silver thread; and on
his feet he had slippers covered with letters similar to those on
his belt.

As soon as Develour became aware of his presence, he advanced to meet
him, and said a few words in Arabic; then, introducing his friend,
he continued, in English--"M. Delevert, permit me to make you acquainted
with Mr. Filmot.

Nothing but a desire to afford him the pleasure of knowing you, the friend and admirer of his countrymen
and their institutions, could have induced me to absent myself from
my post this morning."

"You are welcome, Mr. Filmot," said M. Delevour, "even at a time when our good city affords us little opportunity
to make it a welcome place to a stranger."

"On the contrary," replied Filmot, "to an American and a true lover
of liberty, it seems to hold out a very interesting spectacle, if
what I have seen and heard to-day is a fair indication of what is
to come."

"Ah," said M. Delevert, with a sad smile, "I fear that the philanthropic part of your expectations will
be doomed to disappointment. But a fearful lesson will again be read to the oppressors of the
people; a lesson which would have been more effectual if taught a year hence, but which circumstances
prevent us to delay longer. In a few minutes, messengers will arrive from all parts of the city to
report progress and the probable result. You will thus have an opportunity, if not otherwise engaged,
to gain correct information of the insurrection in all quarters."

"Will you be displeased with me, my friend," said Develour, "if I tell
you that not only of M. Delevert, but also of the Red Man have I
spoken to Mr. Filmot; and I have even promised him that he shall hear
from that mysterious being a detail of one of his visits to the emperors?"

"And

can M. Develour think still of these things?" replied the old man, smiling good-humoredly. "How can
they interest your friend Mr. Filmot--a citizen of a country where everything
is worked for in a plain matter-of-fact way? What interest can he
feel in the various means that were employed in an endeavor to make
the military genius of the great warrior an instrument to bring about a permanent
amelioration in the condition of the people?"

"The very mystery in which the whole seems enveloped," said Filmot, "would,
in itself, be enough to interest me in it; particularly so now, when
I have reason to believe myself in the presence of the chief actor--of
him whom hitherto I have always regarded as the creation of an excited
imagination."

"And why a creature of the imagination?" inquired M. Delevert. "Is it because
I had it in my power to appear before the Emperor and to leave him
unseen by other eyes? Or is it because of the truth of my predictions?

Neither was impossible; neither required means beyond those which the scientific student of the
book of nature, when properly instructed, can obtain. I resorted once even to a use of the utmost
powers of nature, as far as they are known to me, in order to entice
him, by a palpable proof of my ability to aid him, to promise that
he would become an instrument in the hands of those who sought to
usher in the dawn of a happier age, the age of true liberty, true
equality; an age in which every man and woman would be able to feel,
through the advantages of education and equal political and moral
rights, unhampered by false prejudices, that all human beings were
created free and equal.

It was on the night before the battle of Austerlitz, when he, as was his frequent custom, visited the
outpost, wrapped in his plain gray coat.

At the hour of midnight, I presented myself before him, and offered to show him the plans of the enemy
for the following day, on condition that he would not endeavor to meddle with anything he should see, except
so far as necessary to obtain the promised information. He knew something of my ability to fulfil what I promised,
and therefore did not doubt me, but gave his imperial word to fulfil his part
of the compact. I then led him a few paces beyond the camp, and bade him
be seated on a large stone, a fragment of an old heathen altar-stone.
He had hardly taken his seat before a phantom-like being, in the garb
of an officer in the Austrian army, was seen kneeling before him
with a portfolio in his hand.

Napoleon opened it, and found there all the information he desired. He complied strictly with
his promise, and returned the portfolio as soon as he had taken his notes, and the
officer disappeared like a vapor of the night. I then turned to the surprised
monarch, and offered to repeat this specimen of my skill before every
subsequent battle, if he would moderate his ambition and be content to be
the first among his equals, the father of a wide-spread patriarchal
family. But he angrily refused to listen to such a proposal, and,
having somewhat recovered from his surprise, called for his guards
to seize me. Fool! He stood upon a spot where I could have killed
him without the danger of its ever becoming known to any one. While
he turned to look for his myrmidons, the ground opened beneath my
feet, and I disappeared before he had time to see by what means I
escaped.

"Twice have I thus visited Alexander of Russia, but with
like results. Fate has decreed it otherwise. Freedom cannot come to
mankind from a throne. But, from what my friend Develour has told
you already, you may be astonished that we should have engaged, and
still engage, in fruitless efforts, when we have gained from nature
powers by which the sage is able to glance at the decrees. Alas! this
earthly frame loads us with physical clogs that weigh us down, and
throw frequently a film before the eyes which make even the clearest
dim and short-sighted."'

Here they were interrupted by a few raps
at the inner door, which M. Delevert seemed to count with great attention;
and then rising from his seat, he continued, without any change in
the tone of his voice--

"The reporters are coming in. Then we waited. Presently the
man came, with bucket and rope.

"Draw water, that I may wash my hands," said I.

"Achhá, sáhib," and he strode to the well and lowered his pail by the rope. The priest looked
intently at him as he shook the rope to turn the bucket over and let it fill; then he began
to pull. The bucket seemed to be caught. He jerked, and then bent his whole weight back, drawing
the rope across the edge of the brickwork. The thing was immovable. He seemed astonished and
looked down into the well, thinking the pail was caught in a stone. I could not resist the
temptation to go down and inspect the thing. No. The bucket was full and lying in the middle
of the round sheet of water at the bottom of the well. The man tugged, while the Brahmin never
took his eyes, now bright and fiery, off him. I went back to where they all stood. The thing
had lasted five minutes. Then the priest's lips moved silently.

Instantly the strain was released and the stout water-carrier fell headlong backwards on the
grass, his heels in the air, jerking the bucket right over the edge of the well. He bounded
to his feet and ran up the grove, shouting "Bhût, Bhût," "devils, devils," at the top of his
voice. His obstinacy had lasted so long as the bucket would not move, but then his terror got
the better of him and he fled.

"Did you ever see anything of that kind before, Miss Westonhaugh?" I inquired.

"No indeed; have you? How is it done?"

"I have seen similar things done, but not often. There are not many of them that know how.
But I cannot tell you the process any more than I can explain the mango trick, which belongs,
distantly, to the same class of phenomena."

The Brahmin, whose eyes were again dim and filmy, turned to Isaacs.

"I have done a wonder for you. I will also tell you a saying. You have done wrong in not taking
the advice of your friend. You should not have come forth to kill the king of game, nor have
brought the white-haired lady into the tiger's jaws. I have spoken. Peace be with you." And
he moved away.

"And with you peace, friend," answered Isaacs mechanically, but as I looked at him he turned
white to the very lips.

Miss Westonhaugh did not understand the language, and Isaacs would have been the last person
to translate such a speech as the Brahmin had made. We turned and strolled up the hill, and
presently I bethought me of some errand, and left them together under the trees. They were
so happy and so beautiful together, the fair lily from the English dale and the deep red rose
of Persian Gulistán. The sun slanted low through the trees and sank in rose-coloured haze,
and the moon, now just at the half, began to shine out softly through the mangoes, and still
the lovers walked, pacing slowly to and fro near the well. No wonder they dallied long; it
was their last evening together, and I doubted not that Isaacs was telling her of his sudden
departure, necessary for reasons which I knew he would not explain to her or to any one else.

At last we all assembled in the dining-tent. Mr. Currie Ghyrkins was among the first, and his
niece was the last to enter the room. He was glorious that evening, his kindly red face beamed
on every one, and he carried himself like a victorious general at a ladies' tea-party. He had
reason to be happy, and his jerky good spirits were needed to counterbalance the deep melancholy
that seemed to have settled upon his niece. The colour was gone from her cheeks, and her dark
eyes, heavily fringed by the black brows and lashes, shone out strangely; the contrast between
the white flaxen hair, drawn back in simple massive waves like a Greek statue, and the broad
level eyes as dark as night, was almost startling this evening in the singularity of its beauty.
She sat like a queenly marble at the end of the table, not silent, by any means, but so evidently
out of spirits that John Westonhaugh, who did not know that Isaacs was going in the morning,
and would not have supposed that his sister could care so much, if he had known, remarked upon
her depression.

"What is the matter, Katharine?" he asked kindly. "Have you a headache this evening?" She was
just then staring rather blankly into space.

"Oh no," she said, trying to smile. "I was thinking."

"Ah," said Mr. Ghyrkins merrily, "that is why you look so unlike yourself, my dear!" And he
laughed at his rough little joke.

"Do I?" asked the girl absently.

But Ghyrkins was not to be repressed, and as Kildare and the Pegnugger man were gay and wide
awake, the dinner was not as dull as might have been expected. When it was over, Isaacs announced
his intention of leaving early the next morning. Very urgent business recalled him suddenly,
he explained. A messenger had arrived just before dinner. He must leave without fail in the
morning. Miss Westonbaugh of course was forewarned; but the others were not. Lord Steepleton
Kildare, in the act of lighting a cheroot, dropped the vesuvian incontinently, and stood staring
at Isaacs with an indescribable expression of empty wonder in his face, while the match sputtered
and smouldered and died away in the grass by the door. John Westonhaugh, who liked Isaacs sincerely,
and had probably contemplated the possibility of the latter marrying Katharine, looked sorry
at first, and then a half angry expression crossed his face, which softened instantly again.
Currie Ghyrkins swore loudly that it was out of the question--that it would break up the party--that
he would not hear of it, and so on.

"I must go," said Isaacs quietly. "It is a very serious matter. I am sorry--more sorry than
I can tell you; but I must."

"But you cannot, you know. Damn it, sir, you are the life of the party, you know! Come, come,
this will never do!"

"My dear sir," said Isaacs, addressing Ghyrkins, "if, when you were about to fire this morning
to save that poor devil's life, I had begged you not to shoot, would you have complied?"

"Why, of course not," ejaculated Ghyrkins angrily.

"Well, neither can I comply, though I would give anything to stay with you all."

"But nobody's life depends on your going away to-morrow morning. What do you mean? The deuce
and all, you know, I don't understand you a bit."

"I cannot tell you, Mr. Ghyrkins; but something dependg on my going, which is of as great importance
to the person concerned as life itself. Believe me," he said, going near to the old gentleman
and laying a hand on his arm, "I do not go willingly."

"Well, I hope not, I am sure," said Ghyrkins gruffly, though yielding. "If you will, you will,
and there's no holding you; but we are all very sorry. That's all. Mahmoud! bring fire, you
lazy pigling, that I may smoke." And he threw himself into a chair, the very creaking of the
cane wicker expressing annoyance and dissatisfaction.

So there was an end of it, and Isaacs strode off through the moonlight to his quarters, to
make some arrangement, I supposed. But he did not come back. Miss Westonhaugh retired also
to her tent, and no one was surprised to see her go. Kildare rose presently and asked if I
would not stroll to the well, or anywhere, it was such a jolly night. I went with him, and
arm in arm we walked slowly down. The young moon was bright among the mango-trees, striking
the shining leaves, that reflected a strange greenish light. We moved leisurely, and spoke
little. I understood Kildare's silence well enough, and I had nothing to say. The ground was
smooth and even, for the men had cut the grass close, and the little humped cow that belonged
to the old Brahmin cropped all she could get at.

We skirted round the edge of the grove, intending to go back to the tents another way. Suddenly
I saw something in front that arrested my attention. Two figures, some thirty yards away. They
stood quite still, turned from us. A man and a woman between the trees, an opening in the leaves
jost letting a ray of moonlight slip through on them. His arm around her, the tall lissome
figure of her bent, and her head resting on his shoulder. I have good eyes and was not mistaken,
but I trusted Kildare had not seen. A quick twitch of his arm, hanging carelessly through mine,
told me the mischief was done before I could turn his attention. By a common instinct we wheeled
to the left, and passing into the open strolled back in the direction whence we had come. I
did not look at Kildare, but after a minute he began to talk about the moonlight and tigers,
and whether tigers were ever shot by moonlight, and altogether was rather incoherent; but I
took up the question, and we talked bravely till we got back to the dining-tent, where we sat
down again, secretly wishing we had not gone for a stroll after all. In a few minutes Isaacs
came from his tent, which he must have entered from the other side. He was perfectly at his
ease, and at once began talking about the disagreeable journey he had before him. Then, after
a time, we broke up, and he said good-bye to every one in turn, and Ghyrkins told John to call
his sister, if she were still visible, for "Mr. Isaacs wanted to say good-bye." So she came
and took his hand, and made a simple speech about "meeting again before long," as she stood
with her uncle; and my friend and I went away to our tent.

We sat long in the connât. Isaacs did not seem to want rest, and I certainly did not. For the
first half hour he was engaged in giving directions to the faithful Narain, who moved about
noiselessly among the portmanteaus and gun-cases and boots which strewed the floor. At last
all was settled for the start before dawn, and he turned to me.

"We shall meet again in Simla, Griggs, of course?"

"I hope so. Of course we shall, unless you are killed by those fellows at Keitung. I would
not trust them."

"I do not trust them in the least, but I have an all-powerful ally in Ram Lal. Did you not
think it very singular that the Brahmin should know all about Ram Lal's warning? and that he
should have the same opinion?"

"We live in a country where nothing should astonish us, as I remember saying to you a fortnight
ago, when we first met," I answered. "That the Brahmin possesses some knowledge of yog-vidya
is more clearly shown by his speech about Ram Lal than by that ridiculous trick with my water-carrier."

"You are not easily astonished, Griggs. But I agree with you as to that. I am still at a loss
to understand why I should not have come or let the others come. I was startled at the Brahmin."

"I saw you were; you were as white as a sheet, and yet you turned up your nose at Ram Lal when
he told you not to come."

"The Brahmin said something more than Ram Lal. He said I should not have brought the white-haired
lady into the tiger's jaws. I saw that the first warning had been on her account, and I suppose
the impression of possible danger for her frightened me."

"It would not have frightened you three weeks ago about any woman," I said. "It appears to
me that your ideas in certain quarters have undergone some little change. You are as different
from the Isaacs I knew at first as Philip drunk was different from Philip sober. Such is human
nature--scoffing at women the one day, and risking life and soul for their whims the next."

"I hate your reflections about the human kind, Griggs, and I do not like your way of looking
at women. You hate women so!"

"No. You like my descriptions of the 'ideal creatures I rave about' much better, it seems.
Upon my soul, friend, if you want a criterion of yourself, take this conversation. A fortnight
ago to-day--or to-morrow, will it be?--I was lecturing you about the way to regard women; begging
you to consider that they had souls and were capable of loving, as well as of being loved.
And here you are accusing me of hating the whole sex, and without the slightest provocation
on my part, either. Here is Birnam wood coming to Dunsinane with a vengeance!"

"Oh, I don't deny it. I don't pretend to argue about it. I have changed a good deal in the
last month." He pensively crossed one leg over the other as he lay back on the long chair and
pulled at his slipper. "I suppose I have--changed a good deal."

"No wonder. I presume your views of immortality, the future state of the fair sex, and the
application of transcendental analysis to matrimony, all changed about the same time?"

"Don't be unreasonable," he answered. "It all dates from that evening when I had that singular
fit and the vision I related to you. I have never been the same man since; and I am glad of
it. I now believe women to be much more adorable than you painted them, and not half enough
adored." Suddenly he dropped the extremely English manner which he generally affected in the
idiom and construction of his speech, and dropped back into something more like his own language.
"The star that was over my life is over it no longer. I have no life-star any longer. The jewel
of the southern sky withdraws his light, paling before the white gold from the northern land.
The gold that shall be mine through all the cycles of the sun, the gold that neither man nor
monarch shall take from me. What have I to do with stars in heaven? Is not my star come down
to earth to abide with me through life? And when life is over and the scroll is full, shall
not my star bear me hence, beyond the fiery foot-bridge, beyond the paradise of my people and
its senseless sensuality of houris and strong wine? Beyond the very memory of limited and bounded
life, to that life eternal where there is neither limit, nor bound, nor sorrow? Shall our two
souls not unite and be one soul to roam through the countless circles of revolving outer space?
Not through years, or for times, or for ages--but for ever? The light of life is woman, the
love of life is the love of woman; the light that pales not, the life that cannot die, the
love that can know not any ending; my light, my life, and my love!" His whole soul was in his
voice, and his whole heart; the twining white fingers, the half-closed eyes, and the passionate
quivering tone, told all he had left unsaid. I will now ask your kind attention for my estimate of me, Marge Askinforit,
by myself.

There is just one quality which I claim to have in an even greater
degree than my prototype.

She is unlike real life--no woman was ever like what any woman supposes herself to be--but I am far more unlike
real life. I have more inconsistency, more self-contradiction, more
anachronism, more impossibility.

In fact, I sometimes feel as if some fool of a man were just making
me up as he went along.

And the next article? Yes, my imagination.

I have imagination of a certain kind.

It has nothing to do with invention or fancy. It is not a mental faculty
at all. It is not physical. Neither is it paralysis, butterscotch,
or three spades re-doubled.

I should so much like to give some idea of it if I had any. Perhaps an instance will help.

I remember that I once said to the Dean of Belial that I thought the
naming of a Highland hotel "The Light Brigade" showed a high degree
of imagination.

"Half a moment," said the Dean. "I think I know that one.

No--can't get it.

Why was the hotel called that?"

"Because of its terrific charges."

"Yes," he said wearily. "I've heard it. But"--more brightly--"can you
tell me why a Highland regiment was called 'The Black Watch'?"

"I can, Massa Johnson. Because there's a 'b' in both."

"Wrong again.

It's because there's an 'e' in each."

I gave him a half-nelson to the jaw and killed him, and the entire
company then sung "Way down upon de Swannee Ribber," with harmonium
accompaniment, thus bringing the afternoon performance to a close.

The front seats were half empty, but then it was late in the season,
and looked like rain, and--

Certainly, I can stop if you like.

But you do see what I mean, don't you? The imagination is something that runs away with you. If I were
to let mine get away with me, it would knock this old autobiography all to splinters.

But I do not appear to have the kind of imagination that makes me
know what will hurt people's feelings. If I love people I always tell
them what their worst faults are, and repeat what everybody says
about them behind their back.

That ought to make people say: "Thank you, Marge, for your kind
words. They will help me to improve myself."

It has not happened yet. It is my miraculous power of criticism that causes
the trouble. Whenever I let it off the lead it seems to bite somebody;
a muzzle has been suggested.

The other day I said to Popsie Bantam: "You're quite right to bob your
hair, Popsie.

When you have not got enough of anything, always try to persuade
people that you want less.

But your rouge-et-noir make-up is right off the map. If you could manage
to get some of the colours in some of the right places, people would
laugh less.

And I
can never quite decide whether it's your clothes that are all wrong, or if it's just your figure.
I wish you'd tell me. Anyhow, you should try for a job at a photographer's--you're just the girl
for a dark-room."

Really, that's all I said--just affectionate, lambent, helpful criticism,
with a little Tarragon in it.

Yet next day when I met her on the staircase she said she didn't want to
talk to me any more. So I heaved her over the balustrade and she had a
forty-foot drop on to the marble below. I am too impulsive--I have
always said so.

Rather a pathetic touch was that she died just as the ambulance reached
the hospital.

I have lost quite a lot of nice friends in this way.

With the exception of a few teeny-weeny murders, I do not think I have done anything in my life
that I regret. And even the murders--such as they were--were more the fault of my circumstances
than of myself. If, as I have always wished, I had lived alone on a desert island, I should never
have killed anybody at all. But when you go into the great world
(basement entrance) and have a bad night, or the flies are troublesome,
you do get a feeling of passionate economy; you realize that there
are people you can do without, and you do without them. This is the
whole truth about a little failing of which my detractors have made
the most.

Calumny and exaggeration have been carried to such an extent that more
than once I have been accused of being habitually irritable.

My revered model wrote that she had always been a collector "of letters,
old photographs of the family, famous people and odds and ends." I
have not gone quite as far as this.

I have collected odds, and almost every autumn I roam over the moors
and fill a large basket with them, but I have never collected ends.

I do want to collect famous people, but for want of a little education I have not been able to
do it. I simply do not know whether it is best to keep them in spirits of wine, or to have them stuffed
in glass cases--like the canaries and the fish that you could not otherwise believe in. I have
been told that really the best way is to press them between the leaves
of some very heavy book, such as an autobiography, but I fancy they
lose much of their natural brilliance when treated in this way.

Another difficulty is that the ordinary cyanide bottles that you buy
at the naturalist's, though excellent for moths, are not really large
enough to hold a full-sized celebrity.

At the risk of being called a sentimentalist, I may say that I do not think I could kill famous people
by any method that was not both quick and painless. If anything like cruelty
were involved in their destruction, I would sooner not collect them
at all, but just make a study of them in their wild state.

I am only a poor little girl, and I can find nothing whatever on the subject
in any reference book in the public reading-room. I need expert advice.
There is quite a nice collection of famous--and infamous--people
near Baker Street Station, but I am told these are only simulacra.

That would not suit me at all. I am far too genuine, downright, and truthful to put
up with anything less than the real thing.

There must be some way of doing it. I should like to have a stuffed
M.P. in a glass case at each end of the mantelpiece in my little boudoir.
They need not be of the rarest and most expensive kinds. A pretty
Labour Member with his mouth open and a rustic background, and a
Coalitionist lightly poised on the fence, would please me.

It would be so interesting to display one's treasures when people came
to tea.

"Never seen a real leader-writer?" I should say. "They're plentiful locally, but
mostly come out at night, and so many people miss them. It is not of the
least use to put treacle on the trees. The best way is to drive a taxi
slowly down Fleet Street about one in the morning and look honest.

That's how I got the big leader-writer in the hall. Just press his
top waistcoat button and he'll prove that the lost election was a
moral victory.

"In the next case? Oh, they're just a couple of little Georgian poets.
They look wild, but they're quite tame really.

Sprinkle an advance on account of royalties on the window-sill and they'll come for it. It used to be
pretty to watch those two, pouring adulatory articles over each other.
They sing chopped prose, and it seemed almost a pity to kill them;
but there are plenty more.

"And that very pretty creature is an actress; if you drop an interviewer
into the left hand corner of the dressing-room you will hear her say:
'I love a country life, and am never happier than when I am working
in my little garden,'--insert here the photograph in the sun-bonnet--'I
don't think the great public often realizes what a vast amount of----'"

But

I am talking about collecting other people. I am wandering from my
subject. I must collect myself.

At a very early age I caught the measles and a little later on the public eye. The latter I still hold.
But I do not often lose anything except friends, and occasionally the
last 'bus, and of course my situations.

My great model says it is a positive punishment to her to be in one position
for long at a time, and I must be something like that--I rarely keep
a place much longer than a month.

On the other hand, I still have quite a number of metal discs that formed the wheels of a toy railway
train which I had when I was quite a child. I should have had them all, but I used some to get chocolates
out of the automatic machines.

I should have liked to have appended here a list of my accomplishments,
but I must positively keep room for my last chapter.

So to save space I will merely give a list of the accomplishments
which I have not got, or have not got to perfection.

The E flat clarionet is not really my instrument, but I will give
you three guesses what is.

I skate beautifully, but not so well as I dance.

However,
I am saving the I's out of my autobiography for further practice.

Some people perhaps have better memories. But that's no reason why they should
write to the "Sunday Times" about it.

I cannot write Chinese as fluently as English, though I might conceivably
write it more correctly.

I think I have mentioned everything in which I am not perfectly accomplished. Truth and modesty make
me do it.

I would conclude this estimate of myself as follows. If I had to confess and expose one opinion
of myself which would record what I believe to be my differentiation from other people, it would be the
opinion that I am a law unto myself and a judgment to everybody else.

LATE
EXTRA

TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE OF MARGE ASKINFORIT

I sometimes think
that it must have been a sense of impending autobiography which made
me seek employment in the Lightning Laundry.

After all, the autobiographist merely does in public what the laundry
does in the decent seclusion of its works at Wandsworth or Balham.

The principal difference would appear to be that a respectable laundress
does know where to draw the line.

But I admit that I had other motives in seeking a new career.

My attempt to reclaim baronets in their dinner-hour had broken down
completely; in spite of everything I could do, the dirty dogs would
persist in eating their dinner at that time.

Then again, the beautiful and imaginative essays which dear Casey wrote,
under different names and with varying addresses, on my suitability
for domestic service, had begun to attract too much attention; and
a censorious world stigmatized as false and dishonest what was really
poetical.

I wanted too, a position of greater independence.

Of course, I had to learn the work.

At first I was taught the leading principles of button-removal.

Then I went on to the rough-edging. This consists in putting a rough edge on starched collars and cuffs with a
coarse file. Afterwards I was promoted to the mixing department.
This is where the completed articles are packed for delivery. It requires
great quickness and a nice sense of humour. For instance, you take up a
pair of socks and have to decide instantly whether you will send them
both to an elderly unmarried lady, or divide them impartially between
two men.

Our skill in creating odd socks and stockings was gratefully recognized
by the Amalgamated Hosiers' Institution, who paid the laundry an annual
subsidy.

A good memory was essential for the work. Every girl was required
to memorize what size in collars each male client took, so that the
fifteen-inch collars might be sent to the man with the seventeen-inch
neck and vice-versa.

As the manager said to me once: "What we are here for is to teach people self-control.
The rest is merely incidental."

I did not remain very long in the mixing department. My head for
figures soon earned me a place in the office.

Much of it was routine work. Four times every year we had to send out the notices
that owing to the increased cost of labour and materials we were
reluctantly compelled to increase our prices 22-½ per cent. We made
it 22-½ per cent. with the happy certainty that very few of our customers
would be able to calculate the amount of the increase, and still fewer
would take the trouble; this left a little room for the play of our
fancy.

       

As one of our directors--a man with a fine, scholarly head--once said
to me: "Bring the larger vision into the addition of a customer's
account.

The only natural limit to the charge for washing a garment is the cost
of the garment. Keep your eyes ever on the goal. Our present prices
are but milestones on the road."

He had a beautiful, ecclesiastical voice. Nobody would have guessed that he was an engineer and
the inventor of the Button-pulper and Hem-render which have done so much to make our laundries what
they are.

From the very first day that I took up my work in the office I became
conscious that Hector, the manager, had his eye upon me.

He would generally read a page or two of Keats or Shelley to us girls, before we began to make out the
customers' accounts. This was all in accord with the far-seeing and
generous policy of the laundry.

The reading took a little time, but it filled us with the soaring spirit. It made pedantic precision
and things-that-are repulsive to us. After I heard Hector read the
"Ode to a Nightingale"

I could not bring myself to say that two and two were four; nothing less than fourteen seemed to give me any satisfaction.
Hector knew how quickly responsive and keenly sentient I was.

A friend once told me that he had said of me that I made arithmetic a rhapsody.
"This," I replied quietly, "means business."

It did.

One Saturday afternoon I had tea with him--not on the Terrace, as the A.B.C. shop in the High Street was
so much nearer. He was very wonderful. He talked continuously for two hours, and would have gone
on longer. But the waitress pointed out that the charge for a cup of tea and a scone did not include a twenty-one
years' lease of the chair you sat on.

He was, of course, a man of great scientific attainments.

His
work on the use of acids in fabric-disintegration has a reputation throughout the laundries of Europe. But
he had not the habit of screaming blasphemies which my Great Example failed to convince anybody
that she had discovered in Huxley. In brief, he did not conform to the unscientific idea of what a
scientific man must be like. He was a cultured idealist. I will try to recall a few of the marvellous
things he said that afternoon.

In reply to some remark of mine, he said with authority and conviction: "Marge, you really are."

And, indeed, I had to admit that very often I am.

He was saying that in this world gentle methods have effected more than harsh, and added this beautiful
thought: "In the ordeal by laundry the soft-fronted often outlasts
the starched."

Later, I led him on to speak of ambition.

"I am ambitious. That is to say, I live not in the present, but in the future. At one time I
had a bicycle, but in imagination I drove a second-hand Ford; and now I possess the Ford, and
in imagination I have a Rolls-Royce. I once held a subordinate position in the laundry, but in imagination
I was the manager; and now I am the manager, and in imagination am asked to join the Board of
Directors. As the poet Longfellow so wisely said--Excelsior. Engraved
in letters of gold on the heart of the ambitious are these words:
'And the next article?' At this present moment I am having a cup of
tea with by far the most brilliant and beautiful girl of my acquaintance,
but in imagination----"

And it was just there that the tactless waitress interrupted us so
rudely. It was in vain that I tried to lead him back to the subject.
Almost his last words to me that afternoon were:

"I suppose you
don't happen to know what the time is?"

Nor did I. It was just an instance of his subtle intuition. He understood me at once and without effort. Many men have
made a hobby of it for years and never been within three streets of it.

The clock at the post-office gave him the information he required,
and, raising his hat, he said: "Well, I must be getting on."

The whole of the man's life was in that sentence.

Always,
he was getting on--and always with a compulsion, as of destiny, shoving
behind.

Knowing my keen appreciation of art, of which I have always been a just
and unfailing critic, he took me on the following Saturday to see
the pictures.

It was not a good show--too many comics for my taste, and I'd seen the Charlie Chaplin one before.
However, in the dim seclusion of the two-shilling seats just as the
eighteenth episode of "The Woman Vampire" reached its most pathetic
passage, and the girl at the piano appropriately shifted to the harmonium,
Hector asked me if I would marry him.

(No, I shan't. I know I'm an autobiographer and that you have paid
to come in, but there are limits.

You know how shy and retiring I am. No nice girl would tell you what the man said or did on such
an occasion, or how she responded. There will be no details. And you ought to be ashamed of yourself.)

But
just one of Hector's observations struck me particularly: "You know, Marge, there are not many girls
in the laundry I would say as much to."

That statement of preference, admitting me as it were to a small circle of the elect, meant very
much to me. I could only reply that there were some men I wouldn't
even allow to take me to a cinema.

I asked,
and was accorded, time for consideration.

I was face to face with the greatest problem of my life. There was,
I know, one great drawback to my marriage with Hector.

An immense risk was involved.

When the end of this chapter is reached the reader will know what the risk and
drawback were.

At the same time, everybody knew well that Hector was marked out for
a great position.

I had already, with a view to eventualities, had some discussion
with one of the Directors, Mr. Cashmere, whom I have already quoted.

I was a
special favourite of his. But it is quite an ordinary thing in business, of
course, for a Director to discuss the internal affairs of the Board
with one of the Company's junior clerks.

Mr. Cashmere expressed the highest opinion of Hector, and said he
had no doubt that Hector would become a Director, as a result of
a complicated situation that had arisen.

Two of the Directors, Mr. Serge and Mr.
Angora, while remaining on the best possible social terms with the
chairman, Sir Charles Cheviot, were bitterly opposed to him on questions
of policy. On the other hand, though agreed on questions of policy,
Mr. Serge and Mr. Angora were bitterly jealous of each other, and a rupture was
imminent.

Under the circumstances, Mr. Cashmere, while assuring everybody of his whole-hearted
support, had a private reservation of judgment to be finally settled
by the directional feline saltation.

Whichever turn the crisis took, he regarded it as certain that there
would be a resignation, and that Hector would get the vacant place.

"Why," I said, "it's rather like the Government of the British Empire."

"Hush!"

he said, warningly. "It is exactly like it, but in the interests of the shareholders
we do not wish that to be generally known. It would destroy confidence."

I
myself felt quite certain that if Hector did become a Director he would very
shortly be chairman of the Board.

He was a man that naturally took anything there was.

It was in my power to marry a man who would become the chairman of
a Laundry Company with seventeen different branches.

It was a great position. Had I any right to refuse it? If
I did not take it, I felt sure that somebody else would. Was anybody
else as good as I was? Truth compelled me to answer in the negative.

The voice of conscience said: "Take a good thing when you see it. People
have lost fortunes by opening their mouths too wide."

On the other hand there were two considerations of importance. I might
possibly receive a better offer.

If I had been quite sure
that Hector would have taken it nicely, I would have asked him
for a three months' option to see if anything better turned up, but I
knew that with his sensitive nature he might be offended.

The second consideration was the terrible risk to which I have already
referred. Do be patient. You will know all about it when the time comes.

I had to decide one way or the other, and--as the world knows now--I
decided in favour of Hector.

And immediately the storm
broke.

Every old cat that I knew--and I knew some--began to give me advice.
Now, nobody takes advice better than I do, when I am conscious that
I need it and am sure that the advice is good.

Of this I feel as sure as if such an occasion had ever actually
arrived. In an International Sweet-nature Competition I would back myself
for money every time.

I was told that in the dignified position which was to be mine I must
give up larking about and the use of wicked words when irritated.
It seemed to me that if I was to surrender all my accomplishments
I might just as well never marry Hector at all.

I avoid a certain freedom of speech which my great predecessor uses
on a similar occasion.

Dear old Mr. Cashmere found me in almost a bad temper about it, and
listened gravely to my complaint. Placing one hand on my shoulder,
he said:

"Marge, I have lived long, and in the course of my life
I have received much advice. My invariable rule has always been to
thank for it, expressing my gratitude with some warmth and every appearance
of sincerity. This is all that the adviser requires. It gives him,
or her, complete satisfaction. It costs nothing. Afterwards, I proceed
precisely as if no advice had been given."

That freak, Millie Wyandotte,
sent me a plated toast-rack and a letter from which I extract the
following:

"If you were half as extraordinary as you think you are,
this would be a miserable marriage. Anybody who married it would get
lost, bewildered, and annoyed, and the hymn for those at sea should
be sung at the wedding ceremony. But cheer up, old girl. Really extraordinary
people never think it worth while to prove that they are extraordinary,
and mostly would resent being told it. You'll do. Psychologies like
yours can be had from any respectable dealer at a shilling a dozen,
including the box. They wear very well and give satisfaction. Here's
luck."

Mr. J. A. Banting sent me a travelling-clock at one time the
property of Lord Baringstoke, and a letter of such fervent piety and
tender affection that it is too sacred for me to quote.

Fifty-eight
rejected suitors combined to send me a hand-bag of no great intrinsic
value. I cannot but think that the principle of syndication is more
suited to business than to generosity.

But I will not weary the reader
with a list of the numerous and costly gifts that I received. Suffice
it to say that one of my brothers, an excellent judge, offered me
a fiver for the lot, and said that he expected to lose money by it.

*
* * * *

Immediately after the wedding ceremony the blow fell. I had
foreseen the danger of disaster from the very first, and that disaster
came. I can hardly bring myself to write of it.

I have spoken of
my husband as Hector, but his surname was Harris--his mother was one
of the Tweeds. Consequently, I had become Mrs. Harris.

The tendency
of a Mrs. Harris to become mythical was first noticed by an English
writer of some repute in the nineteenth century. I forget his precise
name, but believe that it was Thackeray.

It was in the vestry that
I seemed to hear the voice of an elderly and gin-bemused female telling
me that there was no sich person. True, to a man used to the saddle, the effort of riding is reduced
to a minimum when every hour or two gives him a fresh horse. There is then no heed for the
welfare of the animal necessary; he has but his seven or eight miles to gallop, and then his
work is done; there are none of those thousand little cares and sympathetic shiftings and adjustings
of weight and seat to be thought of, which must constantly engage the attention of a man who
means to ride the same horse a hundred miles, or even fifty or forty. Conscious that a fresh
mount awaits him, he sits back lazily and never eases his weight for a moment; before he has
gone thirty miles he will kick his feet out of the stirrups about once in twenty minutes, and
if he has for the moment a quiet old stager who does not mind tricks, he will probably fetch
one leg over and go a few miles sitting sideways. He will go to sleep once or twice, and wake
up apparently in the very act to fall--though I believe that a man will sleep at a full gallop
and never loosen his knees until the moment of waking startles him. Nevertheless, and notwithstanding
Lord Steepleton Kildare and his ride to Umballa and back in twenty-four hours, when a man,
be he ever so strong, has ridden over a hundred miles, he feels inclined for a rest, and a
walk, and a little sleep.

Once more an emissary of Ram Lal strode to my side as I rolled off the saddle into the cool
grass at sunrise in a very impracticable-looking country. The road had been steeper and less
defined during the last two hours of the ride, and as I crossed one leg high over the other
lying on my back in the grass, the morning light caught my spur, and there was blood on it,
bright and red. I had certainly come as fast as I could; if I should be too late, it would
not be my fault. The agent, whoever he might be, was a striking-looking fellow in a dirty brown
cloth caftán and an enormous sash wound round his middle. A pointed cap with some tawdry gold
lace on it covered his head, and greasy black love-locks writhed filthily over his high cheek
bones and into his scanty tangled beard; a suspicious hilt bound with brass wire reared its
snake-like head from the folds of his belt, and his legs, terminating in thick-soled native
shoes, reminded one of a tarantula in boots. He salaamed awkwardly with a tortuous grin, and
addressed me with the northern salutation, "May your feet never be weary with the march." Having
been twenty-four hours in the saddle, my feet were not that portion of my body most wearied,
but I replied to the effect that I trusted the shadow of the greasy gentleman might not diminish
a hairsbreadth in the next ten thousand years. We then proceeded to business, and I observed
that the man spoke a very broken and hardly intelligible Hindustani. I tried him in Persian,
but it was of no avail. He spoke Persian, he said, but it was not of the kind that any human
being could understand; so we returned to the first language, and I concluded that he was a
wandering kábuli.

As an introduction of himself he mentioned Isaacs, calling him Abdul Hafiz Sáhib, and he seemed
to know him personally. Abdul, he said, was not far off as distances go in the Himalayas. He
thought I should find him the day after to-morrow, mungkul. He said I should not be able to
ride much farther, as the pass beyond Sultanpoor was utterly impracticable for horses; coolies,
however, awaited me with a dooly, one of those low litters slung on a bamboo, in which you
may travel swiftly and without effort, but to the destruction of the digestive organs. He said
also that he would accompany me the next stage as far as the doolies, and I thought he showed
some curiosity to know whither I was going; but he was a wise man in his generation, and knowing
his orders, did not press me overmuch with questions. I remarked in a mild way that the saddle
was the throne of the warrior, and that the air of the black mountains was the breath of freedom;
but I added that the voice of the empty stomach was as the roar of the king of the forest.
Whereupon the man replied that the forest was mine and the game therein, whereof I was lord,
as I probably was of the rest of the world, since I was his father and mother and most of his
relations; but that, perceiving that I was occupied with the cares of a mighty empire, he had
ventured to slay with his own hand a kid and some birds, which, if I would condescend to partake
of them, he would proceed to cook. I replied that the light of my countenance would shine upon
my faithful servant to the extent of several coins, both rupees and pais, but that the peculiar
customs of my caste forbid me to touch food cooked by any one but myself. I would, however,
in consideration of his exertions and his guileless heart, invite the true follower of the
prophet, whose name is blessed, to partake with me of the food which I should presently prepare.
Whereat he was greatly delighted, and fetched the meat, which he had stowed away in a kind
of horse-cloth, for safety against ants.

I am not a bad cook at a pinch, and so we sat down and made a cooking-place with stones, and
built a fire, and let the flame die down into coals, and I dressed the meat as best I could,
and flavoured it with gunpowder and pepper, and we were merry. The man was thenceforth mine,
and I knew I could trust him; a bivouac in the Himalayas, when one is alone and far from any
kind of assistance, is not the spot to indulge in any prejudice about colour. I did not think
much about it as I hungrily gnawed the meat and divided the birds with my pocket-knife.

The lower Himalayas are at first extremely disappointing. The scenery is enormous but not grand,
and at first hardly seems large. The lower parts are at first sight a series of gently undulating
hills and wooded dells; in some places it looks as if one might almost hunt the country. It
is long before you realise that it is all on a gigantic scale; that the quickset hedges are
belts of rhododendrons of full growth, the water-jumps rivers, and the stone walls mountain-ridges;
that to hunt a country like that you would have to ride a horse at least two hundred feet high.
You cannot see at first, or even for some time, that the gentle-looking hill is a mountain
of five or six thousand feet; in Simla you will not believe you are three thousand feet above
the level of the Rhigi Kulm in Switzerland. Persons who are familiar with the aspect of the
Rocky Mountains are aware of the singular lack of dignity in those enormous elevations. They
are merely big, without any superior beauty, until you come to the favoured spots of nature's
art, where some great contrast throws out into appalling relief the gulf between the high and
the low. It is so in the Himalayas.

You may travel for hours and days amidst vast forests and hills without the slightest sensation
of pleasure or sense of admiration for the scene, till suddenly your path leads you out on
to the dizzy brink of an awful precipice--a sheer fall, so exaggerated in horror that your
most stirring memories of Mont Blanc, the Jungfrau, and the hideous arête of the Pitz Bernina,
sink into vague insignificance. The gulf that divides you from the distant mountain seems like
a huge bite taken bodily out of the world by some voracious god; far away rise snow peaks such
as were not dreamt of in your Swiss tour; the bottomless valley at your feet is misty and gloomy
with blackness, streaked with mist, while the peaks above shoot gladly to the sun and catch
his broadside rays like majestic white standards. Between you, as you stand leaning cautiously
against the hill behind you, and the wonderful background far away in front, floats a strange
vision, scarcely moving, but yet not still. A great golden shield sails steadily in vast circles,
sending back the sunlight in every tint of burnished glow. The golden eagle of the Himalayas
hangs in mid-air, a sheet of polished metal to the eye, pausing sometimes in the full blaze
of reflection, as ages ago the sun and the moon stood still in the valley of Ajalon; too magnificent
for description, as he is too dazzling to look at. The whole scene, if no greater name can
be given to it, is on a scale so Titanic in its massive length and breadth and depth, that
you stand utterly trembling and weak and foolish as you look for the first time. You have never
seen such masses of the world before.

It was in such a spot as this that, nearly at noon on the appointed day, my dooly-bearers set
me down and warned me I was at my journey's end. I stepped out and stood on the narrow way,
pausing to look and to enjoy all that I saw. I had been in other parts of the lower Himalayas
before, and the first sensations I had experienced had given way to those of a contemplative
admiration. No longer awed or overpowered or oppressed by the sense of physical insignificance
in my own person, I could endure to look on the stupendous panorama before me, and could even
analyse what I felt. "I think that white dress is the meltingest thing I ever saw," said Lady Eileen,
who had walked into the room without waiting for Miss Devereux's
answer to Peter Rolls's objection.

She was a kind-hearted girl, but, after all, living models were living models until they were dead,
and she wasn't going to lose the chance of getting a dreamy frock out of Rags! All the goddesses were
on their mettle and their feet now, though swaying like tall lilies in a high wind and occasionally
bracing themselves against mirrors, while Lady Eileen was in the biggest chair, with Raygan and Peter
Rolls standing behind her. The men also were offered chairs by Miss Vedrine
with a lovely play of eyelashes, but refused them: the chairs, not
the eyelashes, which no man could have spurned, despite their scattered
effect.

"The white dress, moddam?"

(It thrills a flapper to be called "moddam.") "It is one of the latest designs and considered
perfect for a débutante.

No doubt you know it is Mme. Nadine's custom to name her inspirations.

Come here, if you please, Miss Child! This is 'First Love.'"

"Looks like it," remarked Lord Raygan, as Miss Child obeyed. He might
have meant the wearer or the dress. Peter Rolls flashed a gimlet glance
his way to see which. He felt uncomfortably responsible for the manners
of the visitors and the feelings of the visited. But the face of Rags
was grave, and no offence could be taken. Peter Rolls withdrew the
glance, though not before Winifred Child had it intercepted and interpreted.
 It seemed
to shed a bright light, even in the broad noon-day, as it lay there in the curiously wrought
box--just as the body of some martyred saint found jealously concealed in the dark corner of
an ancient crypt, and broken in upon by unsuspecting masons delving a king's grave, might throw
up in their dusky faces a dazzling halo of soft radiance--the glory of the saint hovering lovingly
by the body wherein the soul's sufferings were perfected.

The moment Isaacs realised what it was, he turned away, his face all gladness, and moved on
a few steps with bent head, evidently contemplating his new treasure. Then he snapped the spring,
and putting the casket in his vest turned round to me.

"Thank you, Griggs; how are they all?"

"It was worth a two-hundred mile ride to see your face when you opened that box. They are pretty
well. I left them swearing that the party was broken up, and that they would all go back to Simla."

"The sooner the better. We shall be there in three days from here, by the help of Ram Lal's
wonderful post."

"Between you I managed to get here quite well. How did you do it? I never missed a relay all
the way from Julinder."

"Oh, it is very easy," answered Isaacs. "You could have a dâk to the moon from India if you
would pay for it; or any other thing in heaven or earth or hell that you might fancy. Money,
that is all. But, my dear fellow, you have lost flesh sensibly since we parted. You take your
travelling hard."

"Where is Ram Lal?" I asked, curious to learn something of our movements for the night.

"Oh, I don't know. He is probably somewhere about the place charming cobras or arresting avalanches,
or indulging in some of those playful freaks he says he learned in Edinburgh. We have had a
great good time the last two days. He has not disappeared, or swallowed himself even once,
or delivered himself of any fearful and mysterious prophecies. We have been talking transcendentalism.
He knows as much about 'functional gamma' and 'All X is Y' and the rainbow, and so on, as you
do yourself. I recommend him. I think he would be a charming companion for you. There he is
now, with his pockets full of snakes and evil beasts. I wanted him to catch a golden eagle
this morning, and tame it for Miss Westonhaugh, but he said it would eat the jackal and probably
the servants, so I have given it up for the present." Isaacs was evidently in a capital humour.
Ram Lal approached us.

I saw at a glance that Ram Lal the Buddhist, when on his beats in the civilisation of Simla,
was one person. Ram Lal, the cultured votary of science, among the hills and the beasts and
the specimens that he loved, was a very different man. He was as gray as ever, it is true,
but better defined, the outlines sharper, the features more Dantesque and easier to discern
in the broad light of the sun. He did not look now as if he could sit down and cross his legs
and fade away into thin air, like the Cheshire cat. He looked more solid and fleshly, his voice
was fuller, and sounded close to me as he spoke, without a shadow of the curious distant ring
I had noticed before.

"Ah!" he said in English, "Mr. Griggs, at last! Well, you are in plenty of time. The gentleman
who is not easily astonished. That is just as well, too. I like people with quiet nerves. I
see by your appearance that you are hungry, Mr. Griggs. Abdul Hafiz, why should we not dine?
It is much better to get that infliction of the flesh over before this evening."

"By all means. Come along. But first send those dooly-bearers about their business. They can
wait till to-morrow over there on the other side. They always carry food, and there is any
amount of fuel."

Just beyond the shoulder of the hill, sheltered from the north by the projecting boulders,
was a small tent, carefully pitched and adjusted to stand the storms if any should come. Thither
we all three bent our steps and sat down by the fire, for it was chilly, even cold, in the
passes in September. Food was brought out by Isaacs, and we ate together as if no countless
ages of different nationalities separated us. Ram Lal was perfectly natural and easy in his
manners, and affable in what he said. Until the meal was finished no reference was made to
the strange business that brought us from different points of the compass to the Himalayan
heights. Then, at last, Ram Lal spoke; his meal had been the most frugal of the three, and
he had soon eaten his fill, but he employed himself in rolling cigarettes, which he did with
marvellous skill, until we two had satisfied our younger and healthier appetites.

"Abdul Hafiz," he said, his gray face bent over his colourless hands as he twisted the papers,
"shall we not tell Mr. Griggs what is to be done? Afterward he can lie in the tent and sleep
until evening, for he is weary and needs to recruit his strength."

"So be it, Ram Lal," answered Isaacs.

"Very well. The position is this, Mr. Griggs. Neither Mr. Isaacs nor I trust those men that
we are to meet, and therefore, as we are afraid of being killed unawares, we thought we would
send for you to protect us." He smiled pleasantly as he saw the blank expression in my face.

"Certainly, and you shall hear how it is to be done. The place is not far from here in the
valley below. The band are already nearing the spot, and at midnight we will go down and meet
them. The meeting will be, of course, like all formal rendezvous for the delivery of prisoners.
The captain of the band will come forward accompanied by his charge, and perhaps by a sowar.
We three will stand together, side by side, and await their coming. Now the plot is this. They
have determined if possible to murder both Shere Ali and Isaacs then and there together. They
have not counted on us, but they probably expect that our friend will arrive guarded by a troop
of horse. The maharajah's men will try and sneak up close to where we stand, and at a signal,
which the leader, in conversation with Isaacs, will give by laying his hand on his shoulder,
the men will rush in and cut Shere Ali to pieces, and Isaacs too if the captain cannot do it
alone. Now look here, Mr. Griggs. What we want you to do is this. Your friend--my friend--wants
no miracles, so that you have got to do by strength what might be done by stratagem, though
not so quickly. When you see the leader lay his hand on Isaacs' shoulder, seize him by the
throat and mind his other arm, which will be armed. Prevent him from injuring Isaacs, and I
will attend to the rest, who will doubtless require my whole attention."

"But," I objected, "supposing that this captain turned out to be stronger or more active than
I. What then?"

"Never fear," said Isaacs, smiling. "There aren't any." 

Shine, Liberty's Stars! your dominion increase-- A guide in the battle,
a blessing in peace!

"E PLURIBUS UNUM!" And thus be, at last, From land unto land our broad banner
cast, Till its Stars, like the stars of the sky, be unfurled, In
beauty and glory, embracing the world!

* * * * *

DEVELOUR.

A SEQUEL TO "THE NIEBELUNGEN."

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES E. BLUMENTHAL.

CHAPTER I.

The twenty-second of February, 1848, found Paris in a condition which only a
Napoleon or a Washington could have controlled. The people felt and acted like
a lion conscious that his fetters are corroded, yet still some what
awed by the remembrance of the power which they once exercised over
him.

Poverty and want, licentious habits and irreligious feeling, had contributed
to bring about a ferocious discontent, which needed only the insidious
and inflammatory articles spread broadcast over the land by designing men
to fan into an insurrection.

Louis Philippe and his advisers exemplified the proverb Quem Deus vuls perdere, prius dementas,
determined upon closing one of the best safety-valves of public discontent. The Reform Banquet had been prohibited,
and apparently well-planned military preparations had been made to meet any possible hostile demonstrations,
and to quench them at the outset. Troops paraded through the city in
every direction, and every prominent place was occupied by squadrons of cavalry
or squads of infantry. Nevertheless, soon after breakfast the people
collected at various points, at first in small numbers; but gradually
these swelled in size in proportion as they advanced to what appeared
the centre to which all were attracted, the Place de la Concorde.

Shouts, laughter, and merriment were heard from all quarters of the crowd, and the moving masses
appeared more like a body of people going to some holiday amusement, than conspirators bent upon the
overthrow of a government.

Just as a detached body of these was passing through the Rue de Burgoigne, a gentleman stepped
out of one of the houses in that narrow street, and, partly led by curiosity and partly by his
zeal for the popular cause, joined their ranks and advanced with them as far as the Palais du Corps
Legislatif, where they were met by a troop of dragoons, who endeavored to disperse the crowd. Angry words were exchanged,
and a few sabre blows fell among the crowd. One of the troopers, who seemed determined to check the
advancing column, rode up to one who appeared to be a leader, and,
raising his sword, exclaimed, "Back, or I'll cleave your skull!" But the youthful
and athletic champion folded his arms, and, without the slightest
discomposure, replied, "Coward! strike an unarmed man;--prove your
courage!" The dragoon, without a reply, wheeled his horse, and rode
to another part of the square.

Just at that moment, another insolent trooper pressed his horse against the gentleman who had
joined the crowd in the Rue de Burgoigne. The latter lifted his cane, and
was about to chastise the soldier's insolence, when a man in a blouse and a
slouched hat resembling the Mexican sombrero, arrested his arm,
and whispered to him, "Do not strike! you are not in America: France is
not as yet the place to resent the insolence of a soldier."

Irritated at this unexpected interference, the gentleman endeavored to
free his arm from the vice-like grasp of the new-comer, while he exclaimed,
"Unhand me, sir!

A free American is everywhere a freeman; and these soldiers shall not
prevent me from proceeding and aiding the cause of an oppressed people."
"Say rather a hungry people," replied the other; and then added with
a smile, and in good English, "Has the quiet student of the Juniata
been so soon transformed into a fierce revolutionary partisan?

What would Captain Sanker say if he could see you thus turned into a
hot-headed insurgent?"

"I have heard that voice before," replied the stranger. "Who are you,
that you are so familiar with me and my friends?"

"One who will guide and advise you in the storm that is now brewing,
which will soon overwhelm this goodly Nineveh, and in its course shake
a throne to its foundation. But this is no place for explanations. Come--and
on our way I will tell you who I am, and why I have mingled with this
people, that know hardly, as yet, what they are about to do."

While saying this, he drew his companion into the Rue St. Dominique,
and disentangled him thus from the crowd, which, now no longer opposed by
the dragoons, moved onward towards the Pont de la Concorde.

After they had crossed the Rue de Bac, they found the streets almost deserted, and then the man with the
slouched hat turned to his companion and said--

"Has Mr. Filmot already forgotten the pic-nic on the banks of the Juniata,
and the stranger guest whom he was good enough to invite to his house?"

Mr.

Filmot, for it was he whom we found just now about to take an active part in the insurrection of the
Parisian people, examined the features of his interlocutor closely
and rather distrustfully, and finally exclaimed--"It cannot be that
I see M. Develour in Paris and in this strange disguise? for only
yesterday I received a letter from Mr. Karsh, in which he informs
me that his friend is even now a sojourner at the court of the Emperor
of Austria."

"That letter was dated more than a month ago," replied Mr. Develour. "I
left the Prater city in the beginning of last month, and, it appears,
have arrived just in time to prevent Mr. Filmot from committing a
very imprudent act, which, by the way, you will recollect, was predicted
to you in the magic mirror.

Had you asked my advice before you left your native land to pursue your studies in the modern Nineveh,
I would have counseled you to wait for a more propitious season.

But, as soon as
I heard of your presence in the city, I determined to watch over you
and to warn you, if your enthusiasm should lead you to take too active
a part in the deadly strife that awaits us here."

"You certainly do not think that a revolution is contemplated?" inquired
Mr. Filmot.

"Come and see," replied Develour, while he continued his walk down the Rue St.
Dominique. They then passed through the Rue St. Marguerite, and entered
the Rue de Boucheries.

About half way down the street they stopped before a mean-looking
house. Develour rapped twice in quick succession at the door, and then, after
a short interval, once more, and louder than before, immediately after
the third rap, the door was partially and cautiously opened, and some
one asked, in an under tone, "What do you want?"

"To see the man of the red mountain," replied Develour, in the same tone.

"What is your business?"

"To guide the boat."

"Where do you come from?"

"From the rough sea."

"And where do you wish to go to now?"

"To the still waters."

After this strange examination, the door was fully opened, and the doorkeeper said, "You may enter."
But when he saw Filmot about to accompany Develour, he stopped him, and inquired by what right
he expected to gain admission.

"By my invitation and introduction," said Develour, before Filmot
had time to speak.

"That may not be," replied the doorkeeper. "No one has a right to introduce
another, except those who have the word of the day."

"I have the word," said Develour; and then he whispered to him, "Not
Martin, but Albert." After that he continued aloud, "Now go and announce
me; we will wait here in the vestibule."

As soon as the doorkeeper, after carefully locking the door, had withdrawn
into the interior of the house, Develour turned to his companion and
asked him, "Have you ever come across an account of the Red Man, whom
many believe to have exercised a great influence over the mind of
Napoleon?"

"I have read some curious statements concerning an individual designated
by that name; but have always considered them the inventions of an
exuberant imagination," replied Filmot.

"You will soon have an opportunity to form a more correct opinion.

I hope to have the pleasure, in a few minutes, to introduce you to him. As
for his claims to--"

Before Develour had time to finish the sentence, a side door opened
close by him, and a black boy, dressed in oriental costume, entered
and bowed, with his hands crossed over his breast, and then said to
Develour, in broken French, "The master told me to bid you welcome,
and to conduct you into the parlor, where he will join you in a few
minutes."

* * * *

CHAPTER II.

Develour and Filmot followed their guide into a room fitted up in
Eastern style.

Divans made of cushions piled one upon another were placed all around
the room, with small carpets spread before them. Light stands of beautiful
arabesque work were tastefully distributed in various places, and
in the centre played a small fountain fed by aromatic water.

The lower part of the room contained a recess, the interior of which
was concealed by a semi-transparent screen, which permitted the visitors
to see that it was lit up by a flame proceeding from an urn.

Heavy rich silk curtains, hung before the windows, excluded the glare of the
sun, and were so arranged that the light in the room resembled that
given by the moon when at its full.

The atmosphere of the apartment was heavy with the perfumes of exotic plants and costly essences. The
Moor requested them to be seated, and, again crossing his arms over his
breast, he bowed and left the room.

As soon as the door had closed behind him, Develour said to Filmot:
"It is reported that the Red Man appeared four times to Napoleon,
and each time, in order to expostulate with him about the course he
was pursuing; that, during each visit, he advised him what to do,
and accompanied his advice with the promise of success, in case he
would follow his counsel; and a threat of defeat if he persisted in
disregarding it.

The last visit which he paid to the Emperor was shortly before the battle
of Waterloo. Montholon was in the antechamber, when the man with the
red cloak entered his master's apartment. After renewed expostulations,
he urged the Emperor to make an overture to the allied powers, and
to promise that he would confine his claims to France, and pledge
himself not to attempt conquest beyond the Rhine.

When Napoleon, though half awed, rejected this advice with some irritation,
his visitor rose, and solemnly predicted to him a signal defeat in the next
great battle he would be compelled to fight; and, after that, an
expulsion from his empire; and then left the room as abruptly as he
had entered it.

       

"As soon as Napoleon had recovered from his surprise at the bold language
and the sudden departure of his strange monitor, he hastened into
the antechamber to call him back.

But no one but Montholon was in the room, who, when questioned by the Emperor
concerning the man who just left the cabinet, replied that, during
the last half hour, no human being had passed through the antechamber, to seek
ingress or egress. The sentinels on the staircases and at the gates were then
examined, but they all declared that they had not seen any stranger
pass their respective posts.

Perplexed at this fruitless endeavor to recall the Red Man, Napoleon
returned to his cabinet mystified and gloomy, disturbed by his self
appointed monitor, and his predictions.

Shortly afterwards, he fought the battle of Waterloo, and saw the prophecy
fulfilled. He could never afterwards wholly divest himself of the belief
that the Man in Red, as he was called by the officers, was an incarnation
of his evil genius."

Before Develour had ceased speaking, a door opened in the the lower
part of the room, and an old man advanced, with a slow but firm step,
towards the two friends.

The new-comer appeared to be a man of more than threescore years and ten,
though not a falter in his step, not the slightest curvature of his
lofty figure, evinced the approach of old age.

He was a little above the middle height, lofty in his carriage, and dignified in all his movements.
A high forehead gave an intellectual cast to a countenance habitually calm and commanding, and to which
long flowing silver locks imparted the look of a patriarch ruler. He was dressed in a velvet
morning-gown, which was confined around his waist by a broad belt of satin,
upon which several formulas in Arabic were worked with silver thread;
and on his feet he had slippers covered with letters similar to those
on his belt.

As soon as Develour became aware of his presence, he advanced to meet him, and said a few words
in Arabic; then, introducing his friend, he continued, in English--"M.
Delevert, permit me to make you acquainted with Mr. Filmot. Nothing
but a desire to afford him the pleasure of knowing you, the friend
and admirer of his countrymen and their institutions, could have induced
me to absent myself from my post this morning."

"You are welcome, Mr. Filmot," said M. Delevour, "even at a time when
our good city affords us little opportunity to make it a welcome place
to a stranger."

"On the contrary," replied Filmot, "to an American and a true lover of liberty,
it seems to hold out a very interesting spectacle, if what I have seen
and heard to-day is a fair indication of what is to come."

"Ah," said M. Delevert, with a sad smile, "I fear that the philanthropic
part of your expectations will be doomed to disappointment.

But a fearful lesson will again be read to the oppressors of the
people; a lesson which would have been more effectual if taught a year
hence, but which circumstances prevent us to delay longer.

In a few minutes, messengers will arrive from all parts of the city to report
progress and the probable result. You will thus have an opportunity, if
not otherwise engaged, to gain correct information of the insurrection
in all quarters."

"Will you be displeased with me, my friend," said Develour, "if I tell
you that not only of M. Delevert, but also of the Red Man have I spoken
to Mr. Filmot; and I have even promised him that he shall hear from
that mysterious being a detail of one of his visits to the emperors?"

"And
can M. Develour think still of these things?" replied the old man, smiling
good-humoredly.

"How can they interest your friend Mr. Filmot--a citizen of a country where everything is worked for in a plain
matter-of-fact way? What interest can he feel in the various means that were employed in an endeavor
to make the military genius of the great warrior an instrument to bring
about a permanent amelioration in the condition of the people?"

"The very mystery in which the whole seems enveloped," said Filmot, "would, in itself, be enough to interest
me in it; particularly so now, when I have reason to believe myself in the presence of the chief actor--of
him whom hitherto I have always regarded as the creation of an excited imagination."

"And why a creature of the imagination?" inquired M. Delevert. "Is it because I had it in my power
to appear before the Emperor and to leave him unseen by other eyes?
Or is it because of the truth of my predictions? Neither was impossible; neither
required means beyond those which the scientific student of the book of nature,
when properly instructed, can obtain. I resorted once even to a use
of the utmost powers of nature, as far as they are known to me, in order
to entice him, by a palpable proof of my ability to aid him, to promise
that he would become an instrument in the hands of those who sought
to usher in the dawn of a happier age, the age of true liberty, true
equality; an age in which every man and woman would be able to feel,
through the advantages of education and equal political and moral
rights, unhampered by false prejudices, that all human beings were
created free and equal.

It was on the night before the battle of Austerlitz, when he, as was his frequent custom, visited the
outpost, wrapped in his plain gray coat. At the hour of midnight, I presented myself before
him, and offered to show him the plans of the enemy for the following
day, on condition that he would not endeavor to meddle with anything
he should see, except so far as necessary to obtain the promised information.

He knew something of my ability to fulfil what I promised, and therefore
did not doubt me, but gave his imperial word to fulfil his part of the
compact.

I then led him a few paces beyond the camp, and bade him be seated on a large stone, a fragment of an
old heathen altar-stone. He had hardly taken his seat before a phantom-like being, in the garb of an
officer in the Austrian army, was seen kneeling before him with a portfolio in his hand. Napoleon
opened it, and found there all the information he desired. He complied strictly with his promise,
and returned the portfolio as soon as he had taken his notes, and the officer disappeared like a vapor
of the night. I then turned to the surprised monarch, and offered to
repeat this specimen of my skill before every subsequent battle, if he would
moderate his ambition and be content to be the first among his equals, the
father of a wide-spread patriarchal family. But he angrily refused
to listen to such a proposal, and, having somewhat recovered from
his surprise, called for his guards to seize me. Fool! He stood upon
a spot where I could have killed him without the danger of its ever
becoming known to any one. While he turned to look for his myrmidons,
the ground opened beneath my feet, and I disappeared before he had
time to see by what means I escaped.

"Twice have I thus visited Alexander
of Russia, but with like results. Fate has decreed it otherwise. Freedom
cannot come to mankind from a throne. But, from what my friend Develour
has told you already, you may be astonished that we should have engaged,
and still engage, in fruitless efforts, when we have gained from nature
powers by which the sage is able to glance at the decrees. Alas! this
earthly frame loads us with physical clogs that weigh us down, and
throw frequently a film before the eyes which make even the clearest
dim and short-sighted."'

Here they were interrupted by a few raps
at the inner door, which M. Delevert seemed to count with great attention;
and then rising from his seat, he continued, without any change in
the tone of his voice--

"The reporters are coming in.

"I wonder where they are now, those two," said Isaacs.

"Shere Ali and Ram Lal?"

"Yes. They are probably across the borders into Thibet, watching the moon rise from the door
of some Buddhist monastery. I am glad I am not there."

"Isaacs," I said, "I would really like to know why you took so much trouble about Shere Ali.
It seems to me you might have procured his liberation in some simpler way, if it was merely
an act of charity that you contemplated."

"Call it anything you like. I had read about the poor man until my imagination was wrought
up, and I could not bear to think of a man so brave and patriotic and at the same time a true
believer, lying in the clutches of that old beast of a maharajah. And as for the method of
my procedure, do you realise the complete secrecy of the whole affair? Do you see that no one
but you and I and the Baithopoor people know anything of the transaction? Do you suppose that
I should be tolerated a day in the country if the matter were known? Above all, what do you
imagine Mr. Currie Ghyrkins would think of me if he knew I had been liberating and enriching
the worst foe of his little god, Lord Beaconsfield?"

There was truth in what he said. By no arrangement could the liberation of Shere Ali have been
effected with such secrecy and despatch as by the simple plan of going ourselves. And now we
toiled up the last hills, vainly attempting to keep our horses in a canter; long before the
relay was reached they had relapsed into a dogged jog-trot.

So we reached Simla at sunrise, and crawled wearily up the steps of the hotel to our rooms,
tired with the cramp of dooly and saddle for so many days, and longing for the luxury of the
bath, the civilised meal, and the arm-chair. Of course I did not suppose Isaacs would go to
bed. He expected that the Westonhaughs would have returned by this time, and he would doubtless
go to them as soon as he had breakfasted. So we separated to dress and be shaved--my beard
was a week old at least--and to make ourselves as comfortable as we deserved to be after our
manifold exertions. We had been three days and a half from Keitung to Simla.

At my door stood the faithful Kiramat Ali, salaaming and making a pretence of putting dust
on his head according to his ideas of respectful greeting. On the table lay letters; one of
these, a note, lay in a prominent position. I took it instinctively, though I did not know
the hand. It was from Mr. Currie Ghyrkins.

     Saturday morning.

     MY DEAR MR. GRIGGS--If you have returned to
     Simla, I should be glad to see you for half an hour on
     a matter of urgent importance. I would come to you
     if I could. My niece, Miss Westonhaugh, is, I am
     sorry to say, dangerously ill.--Sincerely yours,

     A. CURRIE GHYRKINS.

It was dated two days before, for to-day was Monday. I made every possible haste in my toilet
and ordered a horse. I wondered whether Isaacs had received a similar missive. What could be
the matter? What might not have happened in those two days since the note was written? I felt
sure that the illness had begun before I left them in the Terai, hastened probably by the pain
she had felt at Isaacs' departure; there is nothing like a little mental worry to hasten an
illness, if it is to come at all. Poor Miss Westonhaugh! So, after all her gaiety and all the
enjoyment she had from the tiger-hunt on which she had set her heart, she had come back to
be ill in Simla. Well, the air was fresh enough now--almost cold, in fact. She would soon be
well. Still, it was a great pity. We might have had such a gay week before breaking up.

I was dressed, and I went down the steps, passing Isaacs' open door. He was calmly reading
a newspaper and having a morning smoke, until it should be time to go out. Clearly he had not
heard anything of Miss Westonhaugh's illness. I resolved I would say nothing until I knew the
worst, so I merely put my head in and said I should be back in an hour to breakfast with him,
and passed on. Once on horseback, I galloped as hard as I could, scattering chuprassies and
children and marketers to right and left in the bazaar. It was not long before I left my horse
at the corner of Mr. Currie Ghyrkins' lawn, and walking to the verandah, which looked suspiciously
neat and unused, inquired for the master of the house. I was shown into his bedroom, for it
was still very early and he was dressing.

I noticed a considerable change in the old gentleman's manner and appearance in the last ten
days. His bright red colour was nearly faded, his eyes had grown larger and less bright, he
had lost flesh, and his tone was subdued in the extreme. He came from his dressing-glass to
greet me with a ghost of the old smile on his face, and his hand stretched eagerly out.

"My dear Mr. Griggs, I am sincerely glad to see you."

"I have not been in Simla two hours," I answered, "and I found your note. How is Miss Westonhaugh?
I am so sorry to----"

"Don't talk about her, Griggs. I am afraid she's g--g--goin' to die." He nearly broke down,
but he struggled bravely. I was terribly shocked, though a moment's reflection told me that
so strong and healthy a person would not die so easily. I expressed my sympathy as best I could.

"What is it? What is the illness?" I asked when he was quieter.

"Jungle fever, my dear fellow, jungle fever; caught in that beastly tiger-hunt. Oh! I wish
I had never taken her. I wish we had never gone. Why wasn't I firm? Damn it all, sir, why wasn't
I firm, eh?" In his anger at himself something of the former jerky energy of the man showed
itself. Then it faded away into the jaded sorrowful look that was on his face when I came in.
He sat down with his elbows on his knees and his hands in his scanty gray hair, his suspenders
hanging down at his sides--the picture of misery. I tried to console him, but I confess I felt
very much like breaking down myself. I did not see what I could do, except break the bad news
to Isaacs.

"Mr. Griggs," he said at last, "she has been asking for you all the time, and the doctor thought
if you came she had best see you, as it might quiet her. Understand?" I understood better than
he thought.

People who are dangerously ill have no morning and no evening. Their hours are eternally the
same, save for the alternation of suffering and rest. The nurse and the doctor are their sun
and moon, relieving each other in the watches of day and night. As they are worse--as they
draw nearer to eternity, they are less and less governed by ideas of time. A dying person will
receive a visit at midnight or at mid-day with no thought but to see the face of friend--or
foe--once more. So I was not surprised to find that Miss Westonhaugh would see me; in an interval
of the fever she had been moved to a chair in her room, and her brother was with her. I might
go in--indeed she sent a very urgent message imploring that I would go. I went.

The morning sun was beating brightly on the shutters, and the room looked cheerful as I entered.
John Westonhaugh, paler than death, came quickly to the door and grasped my hand.

On a long cane-chair by the window, carefully covered from the possible danger of any insidious
draught, with a mass of soft white wraps and shawls, lay Katharine Westonhaugh--the transparant
phantasm of her brilliant self. The rich masses of pale hair were luxuriously nestled around
her shoulders and the blazing eyes flamed, lambently, under the black brows--but that was all.
Colour, beside the gold hair and the black eyes, there was hardly any. The strong clean-cut
outline of the features was there, but absolutely startling in emaciation, so that there seemed
to be no flesh at all; the pale lips scarcely closed over the straight white teeth. A wonderful
and a fearful sight to see, that stately edifice of queenly strength and beauty thus laid low
and pillaged and stript of all colour save purple and white--the hues of mourning--the purple
lips and the white cheek. I have seen many people die, and the moment I looked at Katharine
Westonhaugh I felt that the hand of death was already closed over her, gripped round, never
to relax. John led me to her side, and a faint smile showed she was glad to see me. I knelt
reverently down, as one would kneel beside one already dead. She spoke first, clearly and easily,
as it seemed. People who are ill from fever seldom lose the faculty of speech.

"I am so glad you are come. There are many things I want you to do."

"Yes, Miss Westonhaugh. I will do everything."

"Is he come back?" she asked--then, as I looked at her brother, she added, "John knows, he
is very glad."

"Yes, we came back this morning together; I came here at once."

"Thank you--it was kind. Did you give him the box?"

"Yes--he does not know you are ill. He means to come at eleven."

"Tell him to come now. Now--do you understand?" Then she added in a low tone, for my ear only,
"I don't think they know it; I am dying. I shall be dead before to-night. Don't tell him that.
Make him come now. John knows. Now go. I am tired. No--wait! Did he save the man's life?"

"Yes; the man is safe and free in Thibet."

"That was nobly done. Now go. You have always been kind to me, and you love him. When you see
me again I shall be gone." Her voice was perceptibly weaker, though still clearly audible.
"When I am gone, put some flowers on me for friendship's sake. You have always been so kind.
Good-bye, dear Mr. Griggs. Good-bye. God keep you." I moved quickly to the door, fearing lest
the piteous sight should make a coward of me. It was so ineffably pathetic--this lovely creature,
just tasting of the cup of life and love and dying so.

"Bring him here at once, Griggs, please. I know all about it. It may save her." John Westonhaugh
clasped my hand in his again, and pushed me out to speed me on my errand. I tore along the
crooked paths and the winding road, up through the bazaar, past the church and the narrow causeway
beyond to the hotel. I found him still smoking and reading the paper.

"Well?" said he cheerfully, for the morning sun had dispelled the doubts of the night.

"My dear friend," I said, "Miss Westonhaugh wants to see you immediately."

"How? What? Of course; I will go at once, but how did you know?"

"Wait a minute, Isaacs; she is not well at all--in fact, she is quite ill."

"What's the matter--for God's sake--Why, Griggs, man, how white you are--O my God, my God--she
is dead!" I seized him quickly in my arms or he would have thrown himself on the ground.

"No," I said, "she is not dead. But, my dear boy, she is dying. I do not believe she will live
till this evening. Therefore get to horse and ride there quickly, before it is too late."

Isaacs was a brave man, and of surpassing strength to endure. After the first passionate outburst,
his manner never changed as he mechanically ordered his horse and pulled on his boots. He was
pale naturally, and great purple rings seemed to come out beneath his eyes--as if he had received
a blow--from the intensity of his suppressed emotion. Once only he spoke before he mounted.

"What is it?" he asked.

"Jungle fever," I answered. He groaned. "Shall I go with you?" asked I, thinking it might be
as well. He shook his head, and was off in a moment.

I turned to my rooms and threw myself on my bed. Poor fellow; was there ever a more piteous
case? Oh the cruel misery of feeling that nothing could save her! And he--he who would give
life and wealth and fortune and power to give her back a shade of colour--as much as would
tinge a rose-leaf, even a very little rose-leaf--and could not. Poor fellow! What would he
do to-night--to-morrow. I could see him kneeling by her side and weeping hot tears over the
wasted hands. I could almost hear his smothered sob--his last words of speeding to the parting
soul--the picture grew intensely in my thoughts. How beautiful she would look when she was dead!

I started as the thought came into my mind. How superficial was my acquaintance with her, poor
girl,--how little was she a part of my life, since I could really so heartlessly think of her
beauty when her breath should be gone! Of course, though, it was natural enough, why should
I feel any personal pang for her? It was odd that I should even expect to--I, who never felt
a "personal pang" of regret for the death of any human creature, excepting poor dear old Lucia,
who brought me up, and sent me to school, and gave me roast chestnuts when I knew my lessons,
in the streets of Rome, thirty years ago. When she died, I was there; poor old soul, how fond
she was of me! And I of her! I remember the tears I shed, though I was a bearded man even then.
How long is that? Since she died, it must be ten years.

My thoughts wandered about among all sorts of bric-à-brac memories. Presently something brought
me back to the present. Why must this fair girl from the north die miserably here in India?
Ah yes! the eternal why. Why did we go at such a season into the forests of the Terai? it was
madness; we knew it was, and Ram Lal knew it too. Hence his warning. O Ram Lal, you are a wise
old man, with your gray beard and you mists of wet white velvet and your dark sayings! Ram
Lal, will you riddle me, also, my weird that I must dree?

A cold draught passed over my head, and I turned on my couch to see whence it came. I started
bolt upright, and my hair stood on end with sudden terror. I had uttered the name of Ram Lal
aloud in my reverie, and there he sat on a chair by the door, as gray as ever, with his long
staff leaning from his feet across his breast and shoulder. He looked at me quietly.

"I come opportunely, Mr. Griggs, it seems. Lupus in fabula. I hear my name pronounced as I
enter the door. This is flattering to a man of my modest pretensions to social popularity.
You would like me to tell you your fortune? Well, I am not a fortune-teller."

"Never mind my fortune. Will Miss Westonhaugh recover?"

"No. She will die at sundown."

"How do you know, since you say you are no prophet?"

"Because I am a doctor of medicine. M.D. of Edinburgh."

"Why can you not save her then? A man who is a Scotch doctor, and who possesses the power of
performing such practical jokes on nature as you exhibited the other night, might do something.
However, I suppose I am not talking to you at all. You are in Thibet with Shere Ali. This is
your astral body, and if I were near enough, I could poke my fingers right through you, as
you sit there, telling me you are an Edinburgh doctor, forsooth."

"Quite right, Mr. Griggs. At the present moment my body is quietly asleep in a lamastery in
Thibet, and this is my astral shape, which, from force of habit, I begin to like almost as
well. But to be serious----"

"I think it is very serious, your going about in this casual manner."

"To be serious. "I wonder my Lord Chesterfield associates with such a villain!" called out Harry from his
table. The other couple of diners looked at him. To his surprise
the nobleman so addressed went on talking.

"There cannot be a more fieffe coquin than this Poellnitz.

Why, Heaven be thanked, he has actually left me my snuff-box! You
laugh?--the fellow is capable of taking it."

And my lord thought it was his own satire at which the young men were
laughing.

"You are quite right, sir," said one of the two diners, turning to Mr.
Warrington, "though, saving your presence, I don't know what business
it is of yours. My lord will play with anybody who will set him.

Don't be alarmed, he is as deaf as a post, and did not hear a word
that you said; and that's why my lord will play with anybody who
will put a pack of cards before him, and that is the reason why he
consorts with this rogue."

"Faith, I know other noblemen who are not particular as to their company," says
Mr. Jack.

"Do you mean because I associate with you? I know my company, my good friend, and I defy most men to have the
better of me."

Not having paid the least attention to Mr. Warrington's angry interruption, my lord opposite
was talking in his favourite French with Monsieur Barbeau, the landlord,
and graciously complimenting him on his dinner.

The host bowed again and again; was enchanted that his Excellency was satisfied: had not forgotten the
art which he had learned when he was a young man in his Excellency's
kingdom of Ireland.

The salmi was to my lord's liking? He had just served a dish to the young American seigneur who sate
opposite, the gentleman from Virginia.

"To whom?"
My lord's pale face became red for a moment, as he asked this question,
and looked towards Harry Warrington, opposite to him.

"To the young gentleman from Virginia who has just arrived, and who
perfectly possesses our beautiful language!" says Mr. Barbeau, thinking
to kill two birds, as it were, with this one stone of a compliment.

"And to whom your lordship will be answerable for language reflecting upon my family, and uttered in
the presence of these gentlemen," cried out Mr. Warrington, at the
top of his voice, determined that his opponent should hear.

"You must go and call into his ear, and then he may perchance hear you," said one of the younger guests.

"I
will take care that his lordship shall understand my meaning, one
way or other," Mr. Warrington said, with much dignity; "and will not
suffer calumnies regarding my relatives to be uttered by him or any
other man!"

Whilst Harry was speaking, the little nobleman opposite to him did
not hear him, but had time sufficient to arrange his own reply.

He had risen, passing his handkerchief once or twice across his mouth,
and laying his slim fingers on the table. "Sir," said he, "you will
believe, on the word of a gentleman, that I had no idea before whom
I was speaking, and it seems that my acquaintance, Monsieur de Poellnitz,
knew you no better than myself.

Had I known you, believe me that I should have been the last man in the world to utter a syllable that
should give you annoyance; and I tender you my regrets and apologies, before my Lord March and Mr.
Morris here present."

To these words, Mr. Warrington could only make a bow, and mumble out
a few words of acknowledgment: which speech having made believe to
hear, my lord made Harry another very profound bow, and saying he
should have the honour of waiting upon Mr. Warrington at his lodgings,
saluted the company, and went away.

CHAPTER XXVI. In which we are at a very Great Distance from Oakhurst

Within the precinct of the White Horse Tavern, and coming up to the
windows of the eating-room, was a bowling-green, with a table or two,
where guests might sit and partake of punch or tea.

The three gentlemen having come to an end of their dinner about the same time, Mr. Morris proposed
that they should adjourn to the Green, and there drink a cool bottle. "Jack Morris would adjourn
to the Dust Hole, as a pretext for a fresh drink," said my lord.

On which Jack said he supposed each gentleman had his own favourite
way of going to the deuce.

His weakness, he owned, was a bottle.

"My Lord Chesterfield's deuce is deuce-ace," says my Lord March. "His lordship can't keep away from
the cards or dice."

"My Lord March has not one devil, but several devils. He loves gambling,
he loves horse-racing, he loves betting, he loves drinking, he loves
eating, he loves money, he loves women; and you have fallen into bad
company, Mr. Warrington, when you lighted upon his lordship.

He will play you for every acre you have in Virginia."

"With the greatest pleasure in life, Mr. Warrington!" interposes my
lord.

"And for all your tobacco, and for all your spices, and for all your
slaves, and for all your oxen and asses, and for everything that is
yours."

"Shall we begin now?

Jack, you are never without a dice-box or a bottle-screw. I will set Mr. Warrington
for what he likes."

"Unfortunately, my lord, the tobacco, and the slaves, and the asses,
and the oxen, are not mine, as yet.

I am just of age, and my mother, scarce twenty years older, has quite
as good chance of long life as I have."

       

"I will bet you that you survive her. I will pay you a sum now against
four times the sum to be paid at her death.

I will set you a fair sum over this table against the reversion of your estate in Virginia
at the old lady's departure. What do you call your place?"

"Castlewood."

"A principality, I hear it is.

I will bet that its value has been exaggerated ten times at least amongst
the quidnuncs here.

How came you by the name of Castlewood?--you are related to my lord?

Oh, stay: I know,--my lady, your mother, descends from the real head
of the house.

He took the losing side in '15.

I have had the story a dozen times from my old Duchess. She knew
your grandfather.

He was friend of Addison and Steele, and Pope and Milton, I dare
say, and the bigwigs.

It is a pity he did not stay at home, and transport the other branch of the family to the plantations."

"I
have just been staying at Castlewood with my cousin there," remarked
Mr. Warrington.

"Hm! Did you play with him?

He's fond of pasteboard and bones."

"Never, but for sixpences and a pool of commerce with the ladies."

"So
much the better for both of you.

But
you played with Will Esmond if he was at home? I will lay ten to one you played with Will Esmond."

Harry
blushed, and owned that of an evening his cousin and he had had a
few games at cards.

"And Tom Sampson, the chaplain," cried Jack Morris, "was he of the
party?

I wager that Tom made a third, and the Lord deliver you from Tom and
Will Esmond together!"

"Nay; the truth is, I won of both of them," said Mr. Warrington.

"And they paid you? Well, miracles will never cease!"

"I did not say anything about miracles," remarked Mr. Harry, smiling
over his wine.

"And you don't tell tales out of school--the volto sciolto--hey, Mr.
Warrington?" says my lord.

"I beg your pardon," said downright Harry, "French is the only language besides
my own of which I know a little."

"My Lord March has learned Italian at the Opera, and a pretty penny his lessons have cost him," remarked
Jack Morris. "We must show him the Opera--mustn't we, March?"

"Must we, Morris?" said my lord, as if he only half liked the other's
familiarity.

Both of the two gentlemen were dressed alike, in small scratch-wigs
without powder, in blue frocks with plate buttons, in buckskins and riding-boots,
in little hats with a narrow cord of lace, and no outward mark of
fashion.

"I don't care about the Opera much, my lord," says Harry, warming
with his wine; "but I should like to go to Newmarket, and long to
see a good English hunting-field."

"We will show you Newmarket and the hunting-field, sir. Can you ride pretty well?"

"I think I can," Harry said; "and I can shoot pretty well, and jump some."

"What's your weight? I bet you we weigh even, or I weigh most. I
bet you Jack Morris beats you at birds or a mark, at five-and-twenty
paces.

I bet you I jump farther than you on flat ground, here on this green."

"I
don't know Mr. Morris's shooting--I never saw either gentleman before--but
I take your bets, my lord, at what you please," cries Harry, who by
this time was more than warm with Burgundy.

"Ponies on each!" cried my lord.

"Done and done!" cried my lord and Harry together. The young man thought it was for the honour of
his country not to be ashamed of any bet made to him.

"We can try the last bet now, if your feet are pretty steady," said my lord, springing up, stretching
his arms and limbs, and looking at the crisp, dry grass.

He drew his boots off, then his coat and waistcoat, buckling his belt round
his waist, and flinging his clothes down to the ground.

Harry had more respect for his garments.

It was his best suit. He took off the velvet coat and waistcoat, folded them up daintily, and, as
the two or three tables round were slopped with drink, went to place
the clothes on a table in the eating-room, of which the windows were
open.

Here a new guest had entered; and this was no other than Mr. Wolfe, who
was soberly eating a chicken and salad, with a modest pint of wine.

Harry
was in high spirits.

He told the Colonel he had a bet with my Lord March--would Colonel
Wolfe stand him halves?

The Colonel said he was too poor to bet. Would he come out and see fair play?
That he would with all his heart. Colonel Wolfe set down his glass, and
stalked through the open window after his young friend.

"Who is that tallow-faced Put with the carroty hair?" says Jack Morris,
on whom the Burgundy had had its due effect.

Mr. Warrington explained that this was Lieutenant-Colonel Wolfe, of
the 20th Regiment.

"Your humble servant, gentlemen!" says the Colonel, making the company
a rigid military bow.

"Never saw such a figure in my life!" cries Jack Morris. "Did you--March?"

"I beg your pardon, I think you said March?" said the Colonel, looking very much surprised.

"I am the Earl of March, sir, at Colonel Wolfe's service," said the
nobleman, bowing.

"My friend, Mr. Morris, is so intimate with me, that, after dinner, we are quite like brothers."

Why is not all Tunbridge Wells by to hear this? thought Morris. And he was so delighted that he
shouted out, "Two to one on my lord!"

"Done!" calls out Mr. Warrington; and the enthusiastic Jack was obliged to cry "Done!" too.

"Take him, Colonel," Harry whispers to his friend.

But the Colonel said he could not afford to lose, and therefore could not
hope to win.

"I see you have won one of our bets already, Mr. Warrington," my Lord March remarked. "I am taller
than you by an inch or two, but you are broader round the shoulders."

"Pooh, my dear Will! I bet you you weigh twice as much as he does!" cries Jack Morris.

"Done, Jack!" says my lord, laughing. "The bets are all ponies. Will you take him,
Mr. Warrington?"

"No, my dear fellow--one's enough," says Jack.

"Very good, my dear fellow," says my lord;
"and now we will settle the other wager."

Having already arrayed himself in his best silk stockings, black satin-net
breeches, and neatest pumps, Harry did not care to take off his
shoes as his antagonist had done, whose heavy riding-boots and spurs
were, to be sure, little calculated for leaping.

They had
before them a fine even green turf of some thirty yards in length, enough
for a run and enough for a jump. A gravel walk ran around this green,
beyond which was a wall and gate-sign--a field azure, bearing the Hanoverian White
Horse rampant between two skittles proper, and for motto the name of the
landlord and of the animal depicted.

My lord's friend laid a handkerchief on the ground as the mark whence
the leapers were to take their jump, and Mr. Wolfe stood at the other
end of the grass-plat to note the spot where each came down.

"My lord
went first," writes Mr. Warrington, in a letter to Mrs. Mountain,
at Castlewood, Virginia, still extant.

"He was for having me take the lead; but, remembering the story about
the Battel of Fontanoy which my dearest George used to tell, I says,
'Monseigneur le Comte, tirez le premier, s'il vous play.' So he took
his run in his stocken feet, and for the honour of Old Virginia, I
had the gratafacation of beating his lordship by more than two feet--viz.,
two feet nine inches--me jumping twenty-one feet three inches, by
the drawer's measured tape, and his lordship only eighteen six.

I had won from him about my weight before (which I knew the moment I set my
eye upon him). So he and Mr. Jack paid me these two betts. And with my best
duty to my mother--she will not be displeased with me, for I bett
for the honor of the Old Dominion, and my opponent was a nobleman of
the first quality, himself holding two Erldomes, and heir to a Duke.

Betting is all the rage here, and the bloods and young fellows of
fashion are betting away from morning till night.

"I told them--and that was my mischief perhaps--that there was a gentleman
at home who could beat me by a good foot; and when they asked who it
was, and I said Col. G. Washington, of Mount Vernon--as you know
he can, and he's the only man in his county or mine that can do it--Mr.
Wolfe asked me ever so many questions about Col. G. W., and showed
that he had heard of him, and talked over last year's unhappy campane
as if he knew every inch of the ground, and he knew the names of all
our rivers, only he called the Potowmac Pottamac, at which we had
a good laugh at him.

My Lord of March and Ruglen was not in the least ill-humour
about losing, and he and his friend handed me notes out of their
pocket-books, which filled mine that was getting very empty, for the
vales to the servants at my cousin Castlewood's house and buying a
horse at Oakhurst have very nearly put me on the necessity of making
another draft upon my honoured mother or her London or Bristol agent."

These feats of activity over, the four gentlemen now strolled out
of the tavern garden into the public walk, where, by this time, a
great deal of company was assembled: upon whom Mr. Jack, who was of
a frank and free nature, with a loud voice, chose to make remarks
that were not always agreeable.

And here,
if my Lord March made a joke, of which his lordship was not sparing,
Jack roared, "Oh, ho, ho! Oh, good Gad! Oh, my dear earl! Oh, my
dear lord, you'll be the death of me!" "It seemed as if he wished
everybody to know," writes Harry sagaciously to Mrs. Mountain, "that
his friend and companion was an Erl!"

There was, indeed, a great variety of characters who passed. M. Poellnitz,
no finer dressed than he had been at dinner, grinned, and saluted with
his great laced hat and tarnished feathers.

Then
came by my Lord Chesterfield, in a pearl-coloured suit, with his blue
ribbon and star, and saluted the young men in his turn.

"I will back the old boy for taking his hat off against the whole
kingdom, and France either," says my Lord March. "He has never changed
the shape of that hat of his for twenty years. Look at it. There it
goes again! Do you see that great, big, awkward, pock-marked, snuff-coloured
man, who hardly touches his clumsy beaver in reply. D---- his confounded
impudence--do you know who that is?"

"No, curse him! Who is it, March?" asks Jack, with an oath.

"It's one
Johnson, a Dictionary-maker, about whom my Lord Chesterfield wrote
some most capital papers, when his dixonary was coming out, to patronise
the fellow.

I know they were capital. I've heard Horry Walpole
say so, and he knows all about that kind of thing. Confound the impudent
schoolmaster!"

"Hang him, he ought to stand in the pillory!" roars Jack.

"That fat man he's walking with is another of your writing fellows,--a
printer,--his name is Richardson; he wrote Clarissa, you know."

"Great heavens! my lord, is that the great Richardson?

Is
that the man who wrote Clarissa?" called out Colonel Wolfe and Mr.
Warrington, in a breath.

Harry ran forward to look at the old gentleman toddling along the walk
with a train of admiring ladies surrounding him.

"Indeed, my very dear sir," one was saying,
"you are too great and good to live in such a world; but sure you were
sent to teach it virtue!"

"Ah, my Miss Mulso! Who shall teach the teacher?" said the good, fat
old man, raising a kind, round face skywards. "Even he has his faults
and errors! Even his age and experience does not prevent him from
stumbl---. Heaven bless my soul, Mr. Johnson! I ask your pardon if
I have trodden on your corn."

"You have done both, sir. You have trodden on the corn, and received
the pardon," said Mr. Johnson, and went on mumbling some verses,
swaying to and fro, his eyes turned towards the ground, his hands
behind him, and occasionally endangering with his great stick the
honest, meek eyes of his companion-author.

"They do not see very well, my dear Mulso," he says to the young lady,
"but such as they are, I would keep my lash from Mr. Johnson's cudgel.
Your servant, sir."

Here he made a low bow, and took off
his hat to Mr. Warrington, who shrank back with many blushes, after
saluting the great author. The great author was accustomed to be adored.
A gentler wind never puffed mortal vanity. Enraptured spinsters flung
tea-leaves round him, and incensed him with the coffee-pot. Matrons kissed
the slippers they had worked for him. There was a halo of virtue round
his nightcap. All Europe had thrilled, panted, admired, trembled,
wept, over the pages of the immortal little, kind, honest man with
the round paunch.

Harry came back quite glowing and proud at having a bow
from him. "Ah!" says he, "my lord, I am glad to have seen him!"

"Seen him! why, dammy, you may see him any day in his shop, I suppose?"
says Jack, with a laugh.

"My brother declared that he, and Mr. Fielding, I think, was the name,
were the greatest geniuses in England; and often used to say, that
when we came to Europe, his first pilgrimage would be to Mr. Richardson,"
cried Harry, always impetuous, honest, and tender, when he spoke of the
dearest friend.

"Your brother spoke like a man," cried Mr. Wolfe, too, his pale face likewise
flushing up. "I would rather be a man of genius, than a peer of the
realm."

"Every man to his taste, Colonel," says my lord, much amused. "Your enthusiasm--I
don't mean anything personal--refreshes me, on my honour it does."
"So it does me--by gad--perfectly refreshes me," cries Jack

"So
it does Jack--you see--it actually refreshes Jack! I say, Jack, which
would you rather be?--a fat old printer," who has written a story
about a confounded girl and a fellow that ruins her,--or a peer of
Parliament with ten thousand a year?"

"March--my Lord March, do you
take me for a fool?" says Jack, with a tearful voice. "Have I done
anything to deserve this language from you?"

"I would rather win
honour than honours: I would rather have genius than wealth. I would
rather make my name than inherit it, though my father's, thank God,
is an honest one," said the young Colonel. "But pardon me, gentlemen,"
and here making, them a hasty salutation, he ran across the parade
towards a young and elderly lady and a gentleman, who were now advancing.

"It
is the beautiful Miss Lowther. I remember now," says my lord. "See!
he takes her arm! The report is, he is engaged to her."

"You don't
mean to say such a fellow is engaged to any of the Lowthers of the
North?" cries out Jack. "Curse me, what is the world come to, with
your printers, and your half-pay ensigns, and your schoolmasters,
and your infernal nonsense?"

The Dictionary-maker, who had shown
so little desire to bow to my Lord Chesterfield, when that famous
nobleman courteously saluted him, was here seen to take off his beaver,
and bow almost to the ground, before a florid personage in a large
round hat, with bands and a gown, who made his appearance in the Walk.
This was my Lord Bishop of Salisbury, wearing complacently the blue
riband and badge of the Garter, of which Noble Order his lordship
was prelate.

Mr. Johnson stood, hat in hand, during the whole time
of his conversation with Dr. Gilbert; who made many flattering and
benedictory remarks to Mr. Richardson, declaring that he was the supporter
of virtue, the preacher of sound morals, the mainstay of religion,
of all which points the honest printer himself was perfectly convinced.

Do
not let any young lady trip to her grandpapa's bookcase in consequence
of this eulogium, and rashly take down Clarissa from the shelf. She
would not care to read the volumes, over which her pretty ancestresses
wept and thrilled a hundred years ago; which were commended by divines
from pulpits and belauded all Europe over. I wonder, are our women
more virtuous than their grandmothers, or only more squeamish? If
the former, then Miss Smith of New York is certainly more modest than
Miss Smith of London, who still does not scruple to say that tables,
pianos, and animals have legs. Oh, my faithful, good old Samuel Richardson!
Hath the news yet reached thee in Hades that thy sublime novels are
huddled away in corners, and that our daughters may no more read Clarissa
than Tom Jones? Go up, Samuel, and be reconciled with thy brother-scribe,
whom in life thou didst hate so. Take my hand, brother, in yours, and seek with me
the path to those heights--to that pinnacle of paradise where you shall meet once more the
spirit elected to yours."

Ram Lal stood beside Isaacs, whose face was still hidden, and laid his hand with tender gentleness
on the weary head. The old man looked kindly down as he touched the thick black hair, and then
raised his eyes and looked out through the door at the brightening landscape over which the
morning sun was shedding warmth and beauty once more.

"Brother," he continued, "come forth with me. You have suffered too much to mix again with
the world, even if you wished it. Come forth, and your soul shall live for ever. Your grief
shall be turned to joy, and the sinking heart shall be lifted to heights untried. As now the
sun steadily rises in his unerring course, following the pale footsteps of the fleet dawning,
and fulfilling her half spoken promises a million-fold in his goodness; as now the all-muffling
heaviness of the sad dark night is forgotten in the gladness of day--so shall your brief time
of darkness and dull distress perish and vanish swiftly at the first glimpses of the heavenly
day on which follows no creeping night nor shadow of earthly care. I come not to bid you forget;
I come to bid you remember. Remember all that is past, treasure it in the secret storehouse
of the soul where the few flowers culled from life's abundant thorn are laid in their fragrance
and garnered up. Remember also the future. Think that your time is short, and that the labour
shall be sweet; so that in a few quick years you shall reap a harvest of unearthly blooming.
Fear not to tread boldly in the tracks of those who have climbed before you, and who have attained
and have conquered. What can anything earthly ever be to you? What can you ever care again
for gold, or gem, or horse, or slave? Do with those things as it may seem good in your eyes,
but leave them behind. Moreover, as young HERBERT pleasantly remarks a little later in the
day, "You must draw a Hawarden-fast line between the two."

One, standing on a hill dominating a far-reaching tract of level country, was already so old in the
time of EDWARD THE FIRST that it was found necessary to rebuild it.

Looking through your Domesday Book (which you always carry with you
on these excursions), you find the mansion referred to under the style
of Haordine.

This, antiquarians assume, is the Saxonised form of the earlier British
Y Garthddin, which, being translated, means "The hill-fort on the
projecting ridge."

When WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR came over, bringing with him a following
the numerical proportions of which increase as the years roll by,
he found the Fort on the Hill held by EDWARD of Mercia, and deemed
it convenient to leave it in his possession.

The Castle played its part in English history down to the time, now 130 years gone by, when it came
into the hands of Sir JOHN GLYNN, and thence through long descent became an inheritance of the
gracious lady who, with cambric cap-strings streaming in the free air of the Marches, joins your
host in welcoming you.

It is, however, not on the steps of the old castle of which Prince LLEWELLYN was once lord that you are thus
received. By the side of the old ruin has grown up another Hawarden
Castle, a roomy mansion, statelily stuccoed, with sham turrets run
up, buttresses, embrasures, portholes, and portcullises, putting
to shame the rugged, looped and windowless ruin that still stands
on the projecting ridge.

This dates only from the beginning of the century, and, looking upon it, your face glows with
honest pride, as you think how much better the generation near your
own made for itself dwelling-houses compared with the earlier English.

Whilst you stand musing on these things you are conscious of a whishing
sound, and a breath of swiftly moving cool air wantonly strikes your
cheek. You look up and behold! there is your host, axe in hand, playfully
performing a number of passes over your unconscious head.

His
dress is designed admirably to suit the exercise. Coat and waistcoat are doffed; the immortal collars
are turned down, displaying the columnar throat and the brawny chest; the snow-white shirt-sleeves are
turned up to the elbow, disclosing biceps that SAMSON would envy and
SANDOW covet.

His braces are looped on either side of his supple hips, and his right
hand grasps the axe which, a moment ago had been performing over your
head a series of evolutions which, remarkable for the strength and
agility displayed, were, perhaps, scarcely desirable for daily repetition.

"Don't

be frightened, TOBY M.P.," said the full rich voice so familiar in the House of Commons; "it's our
wild woodsman's way of welcoming the coming guest. What do you think
of my costume? Seen it before?

Ah!
yes, the photographs. Carte de visite style, 10s. 6d. a dozen; Cabinet size, a guinea. I
have been photographed several times as you will observe."

And, indeed, as your host leads you along the stately passages, through
the storied rooms, you find his photograph everywhere.

The tables are covered with them, showing your host in all attitudes
and costumes. "Yes," he says, with a sigh, "I think I have marched
up to the camera's mouth as often as most men of my years."

Ascending the rustic staircase which leads from the garden, WILLIAM
EWART GLADSTONE takes you past the library into the drawing-room,
in the upper parts of the leaded windows of which are inserted panels
of rare old glass, cunningly obtained by melting superfluous Welsh
ale bottles.

He leads you to a table, as round as that at which a famous Conference was held, and points
to a little ivory painting. It shows a chubby little boy some two years
of age, with rather large head and broad shoulders, sitting at the knee
of a young nymph approaching her fifth year. On her knee is a book, and
the chubby boy, with dark hair falling low over his forehead, his
great brown eyes staring frankly at you, points with his finger to
a passage. I myself, bound by thought and word and deed to the lesser life, was not unmoved
by the glorious promises that flowed with glowing eloquence from the lips of that gray old
man in the early morning. They moved toward the door. Ram Lal spoke as he turned away.

"We leave you, friend Griggs, but we will return this evening and bid you farewell." So I was
left alone. Another comforter had taken my place; one knowing human nature better, and well
versed in the learning of the spirit. One of that small band of high priests who in all ages
and nations and religions and societies have been the mediators between time and eternity,
to cheer and comfort the broken-hearted, to rebuke him who would lose his own soul, to speed
the awakening spirit in its heavenward flight.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I sat in my room that night the door opened and they were with me, standing hand in hand.

"My friend," said Isaacs, "I have come to bid you farewell. You will never see me again. I
am here once more to thank you, from the bottom of my heart, for your friendship and kind offices,
for the strength of your arm in the hour of need, and for the gold of your words in time of
uncertainty."

"Isaacs," I said, "I know little of the journey you are undertaking, and I cannot go with you.
This I know, that you are very near to a life I cannot hope for; and I pray God that you may
speed quickly to the desired end, that you may attain that happiness which your brave soul
and honest heart so well deserve. Once more, then, I offer you my fullest service, if there
is anything that I still can do." 

We surprised them all in bed.

Like most of the other tenements we have come across on our trip, these
were double-deckers.

That is the type of tenement that is responsible for the crowding that till now has gone on unchecked.
For twenty years it has been replacing the older barracks everywhere, as fast as they rotted or
were torn down.

This double-decker was thus described by the Tenement House Commission
of 1894: "It is the one hopeless form of tenement construction.

It cannot be well ventilated, it cannot be well lighted; it is not safe
in case of fire. It is built on a lot 25 feet wide by 100 or less in
depth, with apartments for four families in each story. This necessitates
the occupation of from 86 to 90 per cent of the lot's depth. The stairway,
made in the centre of the house, and the necessary walls and partitions
reduce the width of the middle rooms (which serve as bedrooms for
at least two people each) to 9 feet each at the most, and a narrow
light and air shaft, now legally required in the centre of each side
wall, still further lessens the floor space of these middle rooms.

Direct light is only possible for the rooms at the front and rear.

The middle rooms must borrow what light they can from dark
hallways, the shallow shafts, and the rear rooms. Their air must pass
through other rooms or the tiny shafts, and cannot but be contaminated
before it reaches them. A five-story house of this character contains
apartments for eighteen or twenty families, a population frequently
amounting to 100 people, and sometimes increased by boarders or lodgers
to 150 or more." Farewell, and may all good things be with you."

Isaacs laid his two hands on my shoulders, and once more I met the wondrous lustre of his eyes,
now veiled but not darkened with the last look of his tender friendship.

"Good-bye, my dear Griggs. You have been the instructor and the genius of my love. Learn yourself
the lessons you can teach others so well. Be yourself what you would have made me."

One last loving look--one more pressure of the reluctant fingers, and those two went out, hand
in hand, under the clear stars, and I saw them no more.

THE END.

Footnote 1: Sir Gore Ousely, Notices of the Persian Poets.

Footnote 2: A fact, as is well known.

