In short, that habit of mind equally ready to accept the right and the true, whether it come
with a suspicious air of novelty and singularity, or whether as old and vulgar it be scouted
for being behind the age-- that habit which neither yields to discouragements, nor favors the
fool-hardy haste, which calculates neither time nor its own strength; which discriminates,
when to "contend earnestly," and when to "let them alone," the dogged adherents to falsehood
and wrong, to the teachings of time and circumstances, their conscience and their God, till
every plant which he hath not planted be rooted up by these mightier energies--the habit, realizing
all the good of the radical, in proving all things, and all the glory of the conservative,
in holding fast what is good;--this habit, so favorable to human progress, but involving so
rare a combination of seemingly opposite qualities, as scarcely to be accounted for on all
apparent influences, has been well described, as a "life hid with Christ in God."  And truly
has it been remarked, in view of the general result of ordinary tendencies and influences in
forming one-sided characters, that becoming as a little child, expresses no less fittingly
the conditions of entering the kingdom of nature, and thinking with the wise, than of entering
the kingdom of heaven, and worshipping with the holy.

Of the spiritual more grievously than of the intellectual life is it true, that, "whether one
member suffer, all the members suffer with it."  Here emphatically does the individual labor
hardly, to digest into his life the conclusions of reason and conscience, in advance of the
average understanding of the age.  Professor Lyell, speaking of the Millerite phrenzy, and
how some men of pretty sound mind were carried away with it, remarks to this effect: "Religious
delusion is like a famine fever, which attacks first the hungry and emaciated, but in its progress
cuts down many of the well-fed and robust."

So it is.  So strong are our tendencies to one tone, that the Christian, in setting to his
worldly desires the bounds which his religion exacts, feels to be exercising a self-denial--yielding
the temporal to the eternal.  He scarce seems to himself to be acting the part of true worldly
wisdom.  In reading the life of Dr. Payson, it is obviously manifest, that his deeply spiritual
views were not inwrought harmoniously into his life's web, as would have been, if he had carried
along with him a whole community.

The materialism of this age must pass away, as has passed the quixotism
of the crusades.  Each has but expressed a stage in the progress of
thought; and neither measures the mature life of the soul.  It is not
so certain to sight, what will be next grasped by this reaching onward
to the things before; whether a better reconcilement of the life that
now is with that which is to come, or whether a vaporing, misty
sentimentalism is to be the spirit of the next age.  There are not
wanting indications, that the materialism of this age is to be followed
by a dreamy spiritualism, raising men above the observance of vulgar
duties, but not above the practice of the grossest vices.  It is not
uncharitable to mark such tendencies, where we see canonized Rousseau,
the very embodiment of sensuality, egotism, and misanthropy; and
progress so taught to be the law of individual man, that, whether
going to commit his crimes at the brothel, or to expiate them on the
gallows, his tendencies are still and forever upward.
                     *Bryant

Conclusion.

The matter of the preceding thoughts may be thus summed up.

