There is, I venture to point out, an especial significance just now attaching to this whole
matter of drawing the Americans together in bonds of honorable partnership and mutual advantage
because of the economic readjustments which the world must inevitably witness within the next
generation, when peace shall have at last resumed its healthful tasks. In the performance of
these tasks I believe the Americas to be destined to play their parts together. I am interested
to fix your attention on this prospect now because unless you take it within your view and
permit the full significance of it to command your thought I cannot find the right light in
which to set forth the particular matter that lies at the very font of my whole thought as
I address you to-day. I mean national defense.

No one who really comprehends the spirit of the great people for whom we are appointed to speak
can fail to perceive that their passion is for peace, their genius best displayed in the practice
of the arts of peace. Great democracies are not belligerent. They do not seek or desire war.
Their thought is of individual liberty and of the free labor that supports life and the uncensored
thought that quickens it. Conquest and dominion are not in our reckoning, or agreeable to our
principles. But just because we demand unmolested development and the undisturbed government
of our own lives upon our own principles of right and liberty, we resent, from whatever quarter
it may come, the aggression we ourselves will not practice. We insist upon security in prosecuting
our self-chosen lines of national development. We do more than that. We demand it also for
others. We do not confine our enthusiasm for individual liberty and free national development
to the incidents and movements of affairs which affect only ourselves. We feel it wherever
there is a people that tries to walk in these difficult paths of independence and right. From
the first we have made common cause with all partisans of liberty on this side the sea, and
have deemed it as important that our neighbors should be free from all outside domination as
that we ourselves should be. We have set America aside as a whole for the uses of independent
nations and political freemen.

Out of such thoughts grow all our policies. We regard war merely as a means of asserting the
rights of a people against aggression. And we are as fiercely jealous of coercive or dictatorial
power within our own nation as of aggression from without. We will not maintain a standing
army except for uses which are as necessary in times of peace as in times of war; and we shall
always see to it that our military peace establishment is no larger than is actually and continuously
needed for the uses of days in which no enemies move against us. But we do believe in a body
of free citizens ready and sufficient to take care of themselves and of the governments which
they have set up to serve them. In our constitutions themselves we have commanded that "the
right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed," and our confidence has been
that our safety in times of danger would lie in the rising of the nation to take care of itself,
as the farmers rose at Lexington.

But war has never been a mere matter of men and guns. It is a thing of disciplined might. If
our citizens are ever to fight effectively upon a sudden summons, they must know how modern
fighting is done, and what to do when the summons comes to render themselves immediately available
and immediately effective. And the government must be their servant in this matter, must supply
them with the training they need to take care of themselves and of it. The military arm of
their government, which they will not allow to direct them, they may properly use to serve
them and make their independence secure,-and not their own independence merely but the rights
also of those with whom they have made common cause, should they also be put in jeopardy. They
must be fitted to play the great role in the world, and particularly in this hemisphere, for
which they are qualified by principle and by chastened ambition to play.

It is with these ideals in mind that the plans of the Department of War for more adequate national
defense were conceived which will be laid before you, and which I urge you to sanction and
put into effect as soon as they can be properly scrutinized and discussed. They seem to me
the essential first steps, and they seem to me for the present sufficient.

They contemplate an increase of the standing force of the regular army from its present strength
of five thousand and twenty-three officers and one hundred and two thousand nine hundred and
eighty-five enlisted men of all services to a strength of seven thousand one hundred and thirty-six
officers and one hundred and thirty-four thousand seven hundred and seven enlisted men, or
141,843, all told, all services, rank and file, by the addition of fifty-two companies of coast
artillery, fifteen companies of engineers, ten regiments of infantry, four regiments of field
artillery, and four aero squadrons, besides seven hundred and fifty officers required for a
great variety of extra service, especially the all important duty of training the citizen force
of which I shall presently speak, seven hundred and ninety-two noncommissioned officers for
service in drill, recruiting and the like, and the necessary quota of enlisted men for the
Quartermaster Corps, the Hospital Corps, the Ordnance Department, and other similar auxiliary
services. These are the additions necessary to render the army adequate for its present duties,
duties which it has to perform not only upon our own continental coasts and borders and at
our interior army posts, but also in the Philippines, in the Hawaiian Islands, at the Isthmus,
and in Porto Rico.

By way of making the country ready to assert some part of its real power promptly and upon
a larger scale, should occasion arise, the plan also contemplates supplementing the army by
a force of four hundred thousand disciplined citizens, raised in increments of one hundred
and thirty-three thousand a year throughout a period of three years. This it is proposed to
do by a process of enlistment under which the serviceable men of the country would be asked
to bind themselves to serve with the colors for purposes of training for short periods throughout
three years, and to come to the colors at call at any time throughout an additional "furlough"
period of three years. This force of four hundred thousand men would be provided with personal
accoutrements as fast as enlisted and their equipment for the field made ready to be supplied
at any time. They would be assembled for training at stated intervals at convenient places
in association with suitable units of the regular army. Their period of annual training would
not necessarily exceed two months in the year.

It would depend upon the patriotic feeling of the younger men of the country whether they responded
to such a call to service or not. It would depend upon the patriotic spirit of the employers
of the country whether they made it possible for the younger men in their employ to respond
under favorable conditions or not. I, for one, do not doubt the patriotic devotion either of
our young men or of those who give them employment,--those for whose benefit and protection
they would in fact enlist. I would look forward to the success of such an experiment with entire
confidence.

At least so much by way of preparation for defense seems to me to be absolutely imperative
now. We cannot do less.

The programme which will be laid before you by the Secretary of the Navy is similarly conceived.
It involves only a shortening of the time within which plans long matured shall be carried
out; but it does make definite and explicit a programme which has heretofore been only implicit,
held in the minds of the Committees on Naval Affairs and disclosed in the debates of the two
Houses but nowhere formulated or formally adopted. It seems to me very clear that it will be
to the advantage of the country for the Congress to adopt a comprehensive plan for putting
the navy upon a final footing of strength and efficiency and to press that plan to completion
within the next five years. We have always looked to the navy of the country as our first and
chief line of defense; we have always seen it to be our manifest course of prudence to be strong
on the seas. Year by year we have been creating a navy which now ranks very high indeed among
the navies of the maritime nations. We should now definitely determine how we shall complete
what we have begun, and how soon.

The programme to be laid before you contemplates the construction within five years of ten
battleships, six battle cruisers, ten scout cruisers, fifty destroyers, fifteen fleet submarines,
eighty-five coast submarines, four gunboats, one hospital ship, two ammunition ships, two fuel
oil ships, and one repair ship.

The Secretary of the Navy is asking also for the immediate addition to the personnel of the
navy of seven thousand five hundred sailors, twenty-five hundred apprentice seamen, and fifteen
hundred marines. This increase would be sufficient to care for the ships which are to be completed
within the fiscal year 1917 and also for the number of men which must be put in training to
man the ships which will be completed early in 1918. It is also necessary that the number of
midshipmen at the Naval academy at Annapolis should be increased by at least three hundred
in order that the force of officers should be more rapidly added to; and authority is asked
to appoint, for engineering duties only, approved graduates of engineering colleges, and for
service in the aviation corps a certain number of men taken from civil life.

If this full programme should be carried out we should have built or building in 1921, according
to the estimates of survival and standards of classification followed by the General Board
of the Department, an effective navy consisting of twenty-seven battleships of the first line,
six battle cruisers, twenty-five battleships of the second line, ten armored cruisers, thirteen
scout cruisers, five first class cruisers, three second class cruisers, ten third class cruisers,
one hundred and eight destroyers, eighteen fleet submarines, one hundred and fifty-seven coast
submarines, six monitors, twenty gunboats, four supply ships, fifteen fuel ships, four transports,
three tenders to torpedo vessels, eight vessels of special types, and two ammunition ships.
This would be a navy fitted to our needs and worthy of our traditions.

But armies and instruments of war are only part of what has to be considered if we are to provide
for the supreme matter of national self-sufficiency and security in all its aspects. There
are other great matters which will be thrust upon our attention whether we will or not. There
is, for example, a very pressing question of trade and shipping involved in this great problem
of national adequacy. It is necessary for many weighty reasons of national efficiency and development
that we should have a great merchant marine. The great merchant fleet we once used to make
us rich, that great body of sturdy sailors who used to carry our flag into every sea, and who
were the pride and often the bulwark of the nation, we have almost driven out of existence
by inexcusable neglect and indifference and by a hopelessly blind and provincial policy of
so-called economic protection. It is high time we repaired our mistake and resumed our commercial
independence on the seas.

For it is a question of independence. If other nations go to war or seek to hamper each other's
commerce, our merchants, it seems, are at their mercy, to do with as they please. We must use
their ships, and use them as they determine. We have not ships enough of our own. We cannot
handle our own commerce on the seas. Our independence is provincial, and is only on land and
within our own borders. We are not likely to be permitted to use even the ships of other nations
in rivalry of their own trade, and are without means to extend our commerce even where the
doors are wide open and our goods desired. Such a situation is not to be endured. It is of
capital importance not only that the United States should be its own carrier on the seas and
enjoy the economic independence which only an adequate merchant marine would give it, but also
that the American hemisphere as a whole should enjoy a like independence and self-sufficiency,
if it is not to be drawn into the tangle of European affairs. Without such independence the
whole question of our political unity and self-determination is very seriously clouded and
complicated indeed.

Moreover, we can develop no true or effective American policy without ships of our own,--not
ships of war, but ships of peace, carrying goods and carrying much more: creating friendships
and rendering indispensable services to all interests on this side the water. They must move
constantly back and forth between the Americas. They are the only shuttles that can weave the
delicate fabric of sympathy, comprehension, confidence, and mutual dependence in which we wish
to clothe our policy of America for Americans.

The task of building up an adequate merchant marine for America private capital must ultimately
undertake and achieve, as it has undertaken and achieved every other like task amongst us in
the past, with admirable enterprise, intelligence, and vigor; and it seems to me a manifest
dictate of wisdom that we should promptly remove every legal obstacle that may stand in the
way of this much to be desired revival of our old independence and should facilitate in every
possible way the building, purchase, and American registration of ships. But capital cannot
accomplish this great task of a sudden. It must embark upon it by degrees, as the opportunities
of trade develop. Something must be done at once; done to open routes and develop opportunities
where they are as yet undeveloped; done to open the arteries of trade where the currents have
not yet learned to run,-especially between the two American continents, where they are, singularly
enough, yet to be created and quickened; and it is evident that only the government can undertake
such beginnings and assume the initial financial risks. When the risk has passed and private
capital begins to find its way in sufficient abundance into these new channels, the government
may withdraw. But it cannot omit to begin. It should take the first steps, and should take
them at once. Our goods must not lie piled up at our ports and stored upon side tracks in freight
cars which are daily needed on the roads; must not be left without means of transport to any
foreign quarter. We must not await the permission of foreign ship-owners and foreign governments
to send them where we will.

With a view to meeting these pressing necessities of our commerce and availing ourselves at
the earliest possible moment of the present unparalleled opportunity of linking the two Americas
together in bonds of mutual interest and service, an opportunity which may never return again
if we miss it now, proposals will be made to the present Congress for the purchase or construction
of ships to be owned and directed by the government similar to those made to the last Congress,
but modified in some essential particulars. I recommend these proposals to you for your prompt
acceptance with the more confidence because every month that has elapsed since the former proposals
were made has made the necessity for such action more and more manifestly imperative. That
need was then foreseen; it is now acutely felt and everywhere realized by those for whom trade
is waiting but who can find no conveyance for their goods. I am not so much interested in the
particulars of the programme as I am in taking immediate advantage of the great opportunity
which awaits us if we will but act in this emergency. In this matter, as in all others, a spirit
of common counsel should prevail, and out of it should come an early solution of this pressing
problem.

There is another matter which seems to me to be very intimately associated with the question
of national safety and preparation for defense. That is our policy towards the Philippines
and the people of Porto Rico. Our treatment of them and their attitude towards us are manifestly
of the first consequence in the development of our duties in the world and in getting a free
hand to perform those duties. We must be free from every unnecessary burden or embarrassment;
and there is no better way to be clear of embarrassment than to fulfil our promises and promote
the interests of those dependent on us to the utmost. Bills for the alteration and reform of
the government of the Philippines and for rendering fuller political justice to the people
of Porto Rico were submitted to the sixty-third Congress. They will be submitted also to you.
I need not particularize their details. You are most of you already familiar with them. But
I do recommend them to your early adoption with the sincere conviction that there are few measures
you could adopt which would more serviceably clear the way for the great policies by which
we wish to make good, now and always, our right to lead in enterprises of peace and good will
and economic and political freedom.

The plans for the armed forces of the nation which I have outlined, and for the general policy
of adequate preparation for mobilization and defense, involve of course very large additional
expenditures of money,-expenditures which will considerably exceed the estimated revenues of
the government. It is made my duty by law, whenever the estimates of expenditure exceed the
estimates of revenue, to call the attention of the Congress to the fact and suggest any means
of meeting the deficiency that it may be wise or possible for me to suggest. I am ready to
believe that it would be my duty to do so in any case; and I feel particularly bound to speak
of the matter when it appears that the deficiency will arise directly out of the adoption by
the Congress of measures which I myself urge it to adopt. Allow me, therefore, to speak briefly
of the present state of the Treasury and of the fiscal problems which the next year will probably
disclose.

On the thirtieth of June last there was an available balance in the general fund of the Treasury
Of $104,170,105.78. The total estimated receipts for the year 1916, on the assumption that
the emergency revenue measure passed by the last Congress will not be extended beyond its present
limit, the thirty-first of December, 1915, and that the present duty of one cent per pound
on sugar will be discontinued after the first of May, 1916, will be $670,365,500. The balance
of June last and these estimated revenues come, therefore, to a grand total of $774,535,605-78.
The total estimated disbursements for the present fiscal year, including twenty-five millions
for the Panama Canal, twelve millions for probable deficiency appropriations, and fifty thousand
dollars for miscellaneous debt redemptions, will be $753,891,000; and the balance in the general
fund of the Treasury will be reduced to $20,644,605.78. The emergency revenue act, if continued
beyond its present time limitation, would produce, during the half year then remaining, about
forty-one millions. The duty of one cent per pound on sugar, if continued, would produce during
the two months of the fiscal year remaining after the first of May, about fifteen millions.
These two sums, amounting together to fifty-six millions, if added to the revenues of the second
half of the fiscal year, would yield the Treasury at the end of the year an available balance
Of $76,644,605-78.

The additional revenues required to carry out the programme of military and naval preparation
of which I have spoken, would, as at present estimated, be for the fiscal year, 1917, $93,800,000.
Those figures, taken with the figures for the present fiscal year which I have already given,
disclose our financial problem for the year 1917. Assuming that the taxes imposed by the emergency
revenue act and the present duty on sugar are to be discontinued, and that the balance at the
close of the present fiscal year will be only $20,644,605.78, that the disbursements for the
Panama Canal will again be about twenty-five millions, and that the additional expenditures
for the army and navy are authorized by the Congress, the deficit in the general fund of the
Treasury on the thirtieth of June, 1917, will be nearly two hundred and thirty-five millions.
To this sum at least fifty millions should be added to represent a safe working balance for
the Treasury, and twelve millions to include the usual deficiency estimates in 1917; and these
additions would make a total deficit of some two hundred and ninety-seven millions. If the
present taxes should be continued throughout this year and the next, however, there would be
a balance in the Treasury of some seventy-six and a half millions at the end of the present
fiscal year, and a deficit at the end of the next year of only some fifty millions, or, reckoning
in sixty-two millions for deficiency appropriations and a safe Treasury balance at the end
of the year, a total deficit of some one hundred and twelve millions. The obvious moral of
the figures is that it is a plain counsel of prudence to continue all of the present taxes
or their equivalents, and confine ourselves to the problem of providing one hundred and twelve
millions of new revenue rather than two hundred and ninety-seven millions.

How shall we obtain the new revenue? We are frequently reminded that there are many millions
of bonds which the Treasury is authorized under existing law to sell to reimburse the sums
paid out of current revenues for the construction of the Panama Canal; and it is true that
bonds to the amount of approximately $222,000,000 are now available for that purpose. Prior
to 1913, $134,631,980 of these bonds had actually been sold to recoup the expenditures at the
Isthmus; and now constitute a considerable item of the public debt. But I, for one, do not
believe that the people of this country approve of postponing the payment of their bills. Borrowing
money is short-sighted finance. It can be justified only when permanent things are to be accomplished
which many generations will certainly benefit by and which it seems hardly fair that a single
generation should pay for. The objects we are now proposing to spend money for cannot be so
classified, except in the sense that everything wisely done may be said to be done in the interest
of posterity as well as in our own. It seems to me a clear dictate of prudent statesmanship
and frank finance that in what we are now, I hope, about to undertake we should pay as we go.
The people of the country are entitled to know just what burdens of taxation they are to carry,
and to know from the outset, now. The new bills should be paid by internal taxation.

To what sources, then, shall we turn? This is so peculiarly a question which the gentlemen
of the House of Representatives are expected under the Constitution to propose an answer to
that you will hardly expect me to do more than discuss it in very general terms. We should
be following an almost universal example of modern governments if we were to draw the greater
part or even the whole of the revenues we need from the income taxes. By somewhat lowering
the present limits of exemption and the figure at which the surtax shall begin to be imposed,
and by increasing, step by step throughout the present graduation, the surtax itself, the income
taxes as at present apportioned would yield sums sufficient to balance the books of the Treasury
at the end of the fiscal year 1917 without anywhere making the burden unreasonably or oppressively
heavy. The precise reckonings are fully and accurately set out in the report of the Secretary
of the Treasury which will be immediately laid before you.

And there are many additional sources of revenue which can justly be resorted to without hampering
the industries of the country or putting any too great charge upon individual expenditure.
A tax of one cent per gallon on gasoline and naphtha would yield, at the present estimated
production, $10,000,000; a tax of fifty cents per horse power on automobiles and internal explosion
engines, $15,000,000; a stamp tax on bank cheques, probably $18,000,000; a tax of twenty-five
cents per ton on pig iron, $10,000,000; a tax of twenty-five cents per ton on fabricated iron
and steel, probably $10,000,000. In a country of great industries like this it ought to be
easy to distribute the burdens of taxation without making them anywhere bear too heavily or
too exclusively upon any one set of persons or undertakings. What is clear is, that the industry
of this generation should pay the bills of this generation.

I have spoken to you to-day, Gentlemen, upon a single theme, the thorough preparation of the
nation to care for its own security and to make sure of entire freedom to play the impartial
role in this hemisphere and in the world which we all believe to have been providentially assigned
to it. I have had in my mind no thought of any immediate or particular danger arising out of
our relations with other nations. We are at peace with all the nations of the world, and there
is reason to hope that no question in controversy between this and other Governments will lead
to any serious breach of amicable relations, grave as some differences of attitude and policy
have been land may yet turn out to be. I am sorry to say that the gravest threats against our
national peace and safety have been uttered within our own borders. There are citizens of the
United States, I blush to admit, born under other flags but welcomed under our generous naturalization
laws to the full freedom and opportunity of America, who have poured the poison of disloyalty
into the very arteries of our national life; who have sought to bring the authority and good
name of our Government into contempt, to destroy our industries wherever they thought it effective
for their vindictive purposes to strike at them, and to debase our politics to the uses of
foreign intrigue. Their number is not great as compared with the whole number of those sturdy
hosts by which our nation has been enriched in recent generations out of virile foreign stock;
but it is great enough to have brought deep disgrace upon us and to have made it necessary
that we should promptly make use of processes of law by which we may be purged of their corrupt
distempers. America never witnessed anything like this before. It never dreamed it possible
that men sworn into its own citizenship, men drawn out of great free stocks such as supplied
some of the best and strongest elements of that little, but how heroic, nation that in a high
day of old staked its very life to free itself from every entanglement that had darkened the
fortunes of the older nations and set up a new standard here, that men of such origins and
such free choices of allegiance would ever turn in malign reaction against the Government and
people who had welcomed and nurtured them and seek to make this proud country once more a hotbed
of European passion. A little while ago such a thing would have seemed incredible. Because
it was incredible we made no preparation for it. We would have been almost ashamed to prepare
for it, as if we were suspicious of ourselves, our own comrades and neighbors! But the ugly
and incredible thing has actually come about and we are without adequate federal laws to deal
with it. I urge you to enact such laws at the earliest possible moment and feel that in doing
so I am urging you to do nothing less than save the honor and self-respect of the nation. Such
creatures of passion, disloyalty, and anarchy must be crushed out. They are not many, but they
are infinitely malignant, and the hand of our power should close over them at once. They have
formed plots to destroy property, they have entered into conspiracies against the neutrality
of the Government, they have sought to pry into every confidential transaction of the Government
in order to serve interests alien to our own. It is possible to deal with these things very
effectually. I need not suggest the terms in which they may be dealt with.

I wish that it could be said that only a few men, misled by mistaken sentiments of allegiance
to the governments under which they were born, had been guilty of disturbing the self-possession
and misrepresenting the temper and principles of the country during these days of terrible
war, when it would seem that every man who was truly an American would instinctively make it
his duty and his pride to keep the scales of judgment even and prove himself a partisan of
no nation but his own. But it cannot. There are some men among us, and many resident abroad
who, though born and bred in the United States and calling themselves Americans, have so forgotten
themselves and their honor as citizens as to put their passionate sympathy with one or the
other side in the great European conflict above their regard for the peace and dignity of the
United States. They also preach and practice disloyalty. No laws, I suppose, can reach corruptions
of the mind and heart; but I should not speak of others without also speaking of these and
expressing the even deeper humiliation and scorn which every self-possessed and thoughtfully
patriotic American must feel when he thinks of them and of the discredit they are daily bringing
upon us.

While we speak of the preparation of the nation to make sure of her security and her effective
power we must not fall into the patent error of supposing that her real strength comes from
armaments and mere safeguards of written law. It comes, of course, from her people, their energy,
their success in their undertakings, their free opportunity to use the natural resources of
our great home land and of the lands outside our continental borders which look to us for protection,
for encouragement, and for assistance in their development; from the organization and freedom
and vitality of our economic life. The domestic questions which engaged the attention of the
last Congress are more vital to the nation in this its time of test than at any other time.
We cannot adequately make ready for any trial of our strength unless we wisely and promptly
direct the force of our laws into these all-important fields of domestic action. A matter which
it seems to me we should have very much at heart is the creation of the right instrumentalities
by which to mobilize our economic resources in any time of national necessity. I take it for
granted that I do not need your authority to call into systematic consultation with the directing
officers of the army and navy men of recognized leadership and ability from among our citizens
who are thoroughly familiar, for example, with the transportation facilities of the country
and therefore competent to advise how they may be coordinated when the need arises, those who
can suggest the best way in which to bring about prompt cooperation among the manufacturers
of the country, should it be necessary, and those who could assist to bring the technical skill
of the country to the aid of the Government in the solution of particular problems of defense.
I only hope that if I should find it feasible to constitute such an advisory body the Congress
would be willing to vote the small sum of money that would be needed to defray the expenses
that would probably be necessary to give it the clerical and administrative Machinery with
which to do serviceable work.

What is more important is, that the industries and resources of the country should be available
and ready for mobilization. It is the more imperatively necessary, therefore, that we should
promptly devise means for doing what we have not yet done: that we should give intelligent
federal aid and stimulation to industrial and vocational education, as we have long done in
the large field of our agricultural industry; that, at the same time that we safeguard and
conserve the natural resources of the country we should put them at the disposal of those who
will use them promptly and intelligently, as was sought to be done in the admirable bills submitted
to the last Congress from its committees on the public lands, bills which I earnestly recommend
in principle to your consideration; that we should put into early operation some provision
for rural credits which will add to the extensive borrowing facilities already afforded the
farmer by the Reserve Bank Act, adequate instrumentalities by which long credits may be obtained
on land mortgages; and that we should study more carefully than they have hitherto been studied
the right adaptation of our economic arrangements to changing conditions.

Many conditions about which we I-lave repeatedly legislated are being altered from decade to
decade, it is evident, under our very eyes, and are likely to change even more rapidly and
more radically in the days immediately ahead of us, when peace has returned to the world and
the nations of Europe once more take up their tasks of commerce and industry with the energy
of those who must bestir themselves to build anew. Just what these changes will be no one can
certainly foresee or confidently predict. There are no calculable, because no stable, elements
in the problem. The most we can do is to make certain that we have the necessary instrumentalities
of information constantly at our service so that we may be sure that we know exactly what we
are dealing with when we come to act, if it should be necessary to act at all. We must first
certainly know what it is that we are seeking to adapt ourselves to. I may ask the privilege
of addressing you more at length on this important matter a little later in your session.

In the meantime may I make this suggestion? The transportation problem is an exceedingly serious
and pressing one in this country. There has from time to time of late been reason to fear that
our railroads would not much longer be able to cope with it successfully, as at present equipped
and coordinated I suggest that it would be wise to provide for a commission of inquiry to ascertain
by a thorough canvass of the whole question whether our laws as at present framed and administered
are as serviceable as they might be in the solution of the problem. It is obviously a problem
that lies at the very foundation of our efficiency as a people. Such an inquiry ought to draw
out every circumstance and opinion worth considering and we need to know all sides of the matter
if we mean to do anything in the field of federal legislation.

No one, I am sure, would wish to take any backward step. The regulation of the railways of
the country by federal commission has had admirable results and has fully justified the hopes
and expectations of those by whom the policy of regulation was originally proposed. The question
is not what should we undo? It is, whether there is anything else we can do that would supply
us with effective means, in the very process of regulation, for bettering the conditions under
which the railroads are operated and for making them more useful servants of the country as
a whole. It seems to me that it might be the part of wisdom, therefore, before further legislation
in this field is attempted, to look at the whole problem of coordination and efficiency in
the full light of a fresh assessment of circumstance and opinion, as a guide to dealing with
the several parts of it.

For what we are seeking now, what in my mind is the single thought of this message, is national
efficiency and security. We serve a great nation. We should serve it in the spirit of its peculiar
genius. It is the genius of common men for self-government, industry, justice, liberty and
peace. We should see to it that it lacks no instrument, no facility or vigor of law, to make
it sufficient to play its part with energy, safety, and assured success. In this we are no
partisans but heralds and prophets of a new age.

***

State of the Union Address Woodrow Wilson December 5, 1916

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

In fulfilling at this time the duty laid upon me by the Constitution of communicating to you
from time to time information of the state of the Union and recommending to your consideration
such legislative measures as may be judged necessary and expedient, I shall continue the practice,
which I hope has been acceptable to you, of leaving to the reports of the several heads of
the executive departments the elaboration of the detailed needs of the public service and confine
myself to those matters of more general public policy with which it seems necessary and feasible
to deal at the present session of the Congress.

I realize the limitations of time under which you will necessarily act at this session and
shall make my suggestions as few as possible; but there were some things left undone at the
last session which there will now be time to complete and which it seems necessary in the interest
of the public to do at once.

In the first place, it seems to me imperatively necessary that the earliest possible consideration
and action should be accorded the remaining measures of the program of settlement and regulation
which I had occasion to recommend to you at the close of your last session in view of the public
dangers disclosed by the unaccommodated difficulties which then existed, and which still unhappily
continue to exist, between the railroads of the country and their locomotive engineers, conductors
and trainmen.

I then recommended:

First, immediate provision for the enlargement and administrative reorganization of the Interstate
Commerce Commission along the lines embodied in the bill recently passed by the House of Representatives
and now awaiting action by the Senate; in order that the Commission may be enabled to deal
with the many great and various duties now devolving upon it with a promptness and thoroughness
which are, with its present constitution and means of action, practically impossible.

Second, the establishment of an eight-hour day as the legal basis alike of work and wages in
the employment of all railway employes who are actually engaged in the work of operating trains
in interstate transportation.

Third, the authorization of the appointment by the President of a small body of men to observe
actual results in experience of the adoption of the eight-hour day in railway transportation
alike for the men and for the railroads.

Fourth, explicit approval by the Congress of the consideration by the Interstate Commerce Commission
of an increase of freight rates to meet such additional expenditures by the railroads as may
have been rendered necessary by the adoption of the eight-hour day and which have not been
offset by administrative readjustments and economies, should the facts disclosed justify the
increase.

Fifth, an amendment of the existing Federal statute which provides for the mediation, conciliation
and arbitration of such controversies as the present by adding to it a provision that, in case
the methods of accommodation now provided for should fail, a full public investigation of the
merits of every such dispute shall be instituted and completed before a strike or lockout may
lawfully be attempted.

And, sixth, the lodgment in the hands of the Executive of the power, in case of military necessity,
to take control of such portions and such rolling stock of the railways of the country as may
be required for military use and to operate them for military purposes, with authority to draft
into the military service of the United States such train crews and administrative officials
as the circumstances require for their safe and efficient use.

The second and third of these recommendations the Congress immediately acted on: it established
the eight-hour day as the legal basis of work and wages in train service and it authorized
the appointment of a commission to observe and report upon the practical results, deeming these
the measures most immediately needed; but it postponed action upon the other suggestions until
an opportunity should be offered for a more deliberate consideration of them.

The fourth recommendation I do not deem it necessary to renew. The power of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to grant an increase of rates on the ground referred to is indisputably
clear and a recommendation by the Congress with regard to such a matter might seem to draw
in question the scope of the commission's authority or its inclination to do justice when there
is no reason to doubt either.

The other suggestions-the increase in the Interstate Commerce Commission's membership and in
its facilities for performing its manifold duties; the provision for full public investigation
and assessment of industrial disputes, and the grant to the Executive of the power to control
and operate the railways when necessary in time of war or other like public necessity-I now
very earnestly renew.

The necessity for such legislation is manifest and pressing. Those who have entrusted us with
the responsibility and duty of serving and safeguarding them in such matters would find it
hard, I believe, to excuse a failure to act upon these grave matters or any unnecessary postponement
of action upon them.

Not only does the Interstate Commerce Commission now find it practically impossible, with its
present membership and organization, to perform its great functions promptly and thoroughly,
but it is not unlikely that it may presently be found advisable to add to its duties still
others equally heavy and exacting. It must first be perfected as an administrative instrument.

The country cannot and should not consent to remain any longer exposed to profound industrial
disturbances for lack of additional means of arbitration and conciliation which the Congress
can easily and promptly supply.

And all will agree that there must be no doubt as to the power of the Executive to make immediate
and uninterrupted use of the railroads for the concentration of the military forces of the
nation wherever they are needed and whenever they are needed.

This is a program of regulation, prevention and administrative efficiency which argues its
own case in the mere statement of it. With regard to one of its items, the increase in the
efficiency of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the House of Representatives has already
acted; its action needs only the concurrence of the Senate.

I would hesitate to recommend, and I dare say the Congress would hesitate to act upon the suggestion
should I make it, that any man in any I occupation should be obliged by law to continue in
an employment which he desired to leave.

To pass a law which forbade or prevented the individual workman to leave his work before receiving
the approval of society in doing so would be to adopt a new principle into our jurisprudence,
which I take it for granted we are not prepared to introduce.

But the proposal that the operation of the railways of the country shall not be stopped or
interrupted by the concerted action of organized bodies of men until a public investigation
shall have been instituted, which shall make the whole question at issue plain for the judgment
of the opinion of the nation, is not to propose any such principle.

It is based upon the very different principle that the concerted action of powerful bodies
of men shall not be permitted to stop the industrial processes of the nation, at any rate before
the nation shall have had an opportunity to acquaint itself with the merits of the case as
between employe and employer, time to form its opinion upon an impartial statement of the merits,
and opportunity to consider all practicable means of conciliation or arbitration.

I can see nothing in that proposition but the justifiable safeguarding by society of the necessary
processes of its very life. There is nothing arbitrary or unjust in it unless it be arbitrarily
and unjustly done. It can and should be done with a full and scrupulous regard for the interests
and liberties of all concerned as well as for the permanent interests of society itself.

Three matters of capital importance await the action of the Senate which have already been
acted upon by the House of Representatives; the bill which seeks to extend greater freedom
of combination to those engaged in promoting the foreign commerce of the country than is now
thought by some to be legal under the terms of the laws against monopoly; the bill amending
the present organic law of Porto Rico; and the bill proposing a more thorough and systematic
regulation of the expenditure of money in elections, commonly called the Corrupt Practices Act.

I need not labor my advice that these measures be enacted into law. Their urgency lies in the
manifest circumstances which render their adoption at this time not only opportune but necessary.
Even delay would seriously jeopard the interests of the country and of the Government.

Immediate passage of the bill to regulate the expenditure of money in elections may seem to
be less necessary than the immediate enactment of the other measures to which I refer, because
at least two years will elapse before another election in which Federal offices are to be filled;
but it would greatly relieve the public mind if this important matter were dealt with while
the circumstances and the dangers to the public morals of the present method of obtaining and
spending campaign funds stand clear under recent observation, and the methods of expenditure
can be frankly studied in the light of present experience; and a delay would have the further
very serious disadvantage of postponing action until another election was at hand and some
special object connected with it might be thought to be in the mind of those who urged it.
Action can be taken now with facts for guidance and without suspicion of partisan purpose.

I shall not argue at length the desirability of giving a freer hand in the matter of combined
and concerted effort to those who shall undertake the essential enterprise of building up our
export trade. That enterprise will presently, will immediately assume, has indeed already assumed
a magnitude unprecedented in our experience. We have not the necessary instrumentalities for
its prosecution; it is deemed to be doubtful whether they could be created upon an adequate
scale under our present laws.

We should clear away all legal obstacles and create a basis of undoubted law for it which will
give freedom without permitting unregulated license. The thing must be done now, because the
opportunity is here and may escape us if we hesitate or delay.

The argument for the proposed amendments of the organic law of Porto Rico is brief and conclusive.
The present laws governing the island and regulating the rights and privileges of its people
are not just. We have created expectations of extended privilege which we have not satisfied.
There is uneasiness among the people of the island and even a suspicious doubt with regard
to our intentions concerning them which the adoption of the pending measure would happily remove.
We do not doubt what we wish to do in any essential particular. We ought to do it at once.

At the last session of the Congress a bill was passed by the Senate which provides for the
promotion of vocational and industrial education, which is of vital importance to the whole
country because it concerns a matter, too long neglected, upon which the thorough industrial
preparation of the country for the critical years of economic development immediately ahead
of us in very large measure depends.

May I not urge its early and favorable consideration by the House of Representatives and its
early enactment into law? It contains plans which affect all interests and all parts of the
country, and I am sure that there is no legislation now pending before the Congress whose passage
the country awaits with more thoughtful approval or greater impatience to see a great and admirable
thing set in the way of being done.

There are other matters already advanced to the stage of conference between the two houses
of which it is not necessary that I should speak. Some practicable basis of agreement concerning
them will no doubt be found an action taken upon them.

Inasmuch as this is, gentlemen, probably the last occasion I shall have to address the Sixty-fourth
Congress, I hope that you will permit me to say with what genuine pleasure and satisfaction
I have co-operated with you in the many measures of constructive policy with which you have
enriched the legislative annals of the country. It has been a privilege to labor in such company.
I take the liberty of congratulating you upon the completion of a record of rare serviceableness
and distinction.

***

State of the Union Address Woodrow Wilson December 4, 1917

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

Eight months have elapsed since I last had the honor of addressing you. They have been months
crowded with events of immense and grave significance for us. I shall not undertake to detail
or even to summarize those events. The practical particulars of the part we have played in
them will be laid before you in the reports of the executive departments. I shall discuss only
our present outlook upon these vast affairs, our present duties, and the immediate means of
accomplishing the objects we shall hold always in view.

I shall not go back to debate the causes of the war. The intolerable wrongs done and planned
against us by the sinister masters of Germany have long since become too grossly obvious and
odious to every true American to need to be rehearsed. But I shall ask you to consider again
and with a very grave scrutiny our objectives and the measures by which we mean to attain them;
for the purpose of discussion here in this place is action, and our action must move straight
toward definite ends. Our object is, of course, to win the war; and we shall not slacken or
suffer ourselves to be diverted until it is won. But it is worth while asking and answering
the question, When shall we consider the war won?

From one point of view it is not necessary to broach this fundamental matter. I do not doubt
that the American people know what the war is about and what sort of an outcome they will regard
as a realization of their purpose in it.

As a nation we are united in spirit and intention. I pay little heed to those who tell me otherwise.
I hear the voices of dissent-who does not? I bear the criticism and the clamor of the noisily
thoughtless and troublesome. I also see men here and there fling themselves in impotent disloyalty
against the calm, indomitable power of the Nation. I hear men debate peace who understand neither
its nature nor the way in which we may attain it with uplifted eyes and unbroken spirits. But
I know that none of these speaks for the Nation. They do not touch the heart of anything. They
may safely be left to strut their uneasy hour and be forgotten.

But from another point of view I believe that it is necessary to say plainly what we here at
the seat of action consider the war to be for and what part we mean to play in the settlement
of its searching issues. We are the spokesmen of the American people, and they have a right
to know whether their purpose is ours. They desire peace by the overcoming of evil, by the
defeat once for all of the sinister forces that interrupt peace and render it impossible, and
they wish to know how closely our thought runs with theirs and what action we propose. They
are impatient with those who desire peace by any sort of compromise deeply and indignantly
impatient--but they will be equally impatient with us if we do not make it plain to them what
our objectives are and what we are planning for in seeking to make conquest of peace by arms.

I believe that I speak for them when I say two things: First, that this intolerable thing of
which the masters of Germany have shown us the ugly face, this menace of combined intrigue
and force which we now see so clearly as the German power, a thing without conscience or honor
of capacity for covenanted peace, must be crushed and, if it be not utterly brought to an end,
at least shut out from the friendly intercourse of the nations; and second, that when this
thing and its power are indeed defeated and the time comes that we can discuss peace when the
German people have spokesmen whose word we can believe and when those spokesmen are ready in
the name of their people to accept the common judgment of the nations as to what shall henceforth
be the bases of law and of covenant for the life of the world-we shall be willing and glad
to pay the full price for peace, and pay it ungrudgingly.

We know what that price will be. It will be full, impartial justice-justice done at every point
and to every nation that the final settlement must affect, our enemies as well as our friends.

You catch, with me, the voices of humanity that are in the air. They grow daily more audible,
more articulate, more persuasive, and they come from the hearts of men everywhere. They insist
that the war shall not end in vindictive action of any kind; that no nation or people shall
be robbed or punished because the irresponsible rulers of a single country have themselves
done deep and abominable wrong. It is this thought that has been expressed in the formula,
"No annexations, no contributions, no punitive indemnities."

Just because this crude formula expresses the instinctive judgment as to right of plain men
everywhere, it has been made diligent use of by the masters of German intrigue to lead the
people of Russia astray and the people of every other country their agents could reach-in order
that a premature peace might be brought about before autocracy has been taught its final and
convincing lesson and the people of the world put in control of their own destinies.

But the fact that a wrong use has been made of a just idea is no reason why a right use should
not be made of it. It ought to be brought under the patronage of its real friends. Let it be
said again that autocracy must first be shown the utter futility of its claim to power or leadership
in the modern world. It is impossible to apply any standard of justice so long as such forces
are unchecked and undefeated as the present masters of Germany command. Not until that has
been done can right be set up as arbiter and peacemaker among the nations. But when that has
been done-as, God willing, it assuredly will be-we shall at last be free to do an unprecedented
thing, and this is the time to avow our purpose to do it. We shall be free to base peace on
generosity and justice, to the exclusions of all selfish claims to advantage even on the part
of the victors.

Let there be no misunderstanding. Our present and immediate task is to win the war and nothing
shall turn us aside from it until it is accomplished. Every power and resource we possess,
whether of men, of money, or of materials, is being devoted and will continue to be devoted
to that purpose until it is achieved. Those who desire to bring peace about before that purpose
is achieved I counsel to carry their advice elsewhere. We will not entertain it. We shall regard
the war as won only when the German people say to us, through properly accredited representatives,
that they are ready to agree to a settlement based upon justice and reparation of the wrongs
their rulers have done. They have done a wrong to Belgium which must be repaired. They have
established a power over other lands and peoples than their own--over the great empire of Austria-Hungary,
over hitherto free Balkan states, over Turkey and within Asia-which must be relinquished.

Germany's success by skill, by industry, by knowledge, by enterprise we did not grudge or oppose,
but admired, rather. She had built up for herself a real empire of trade and influence, secured
by the peace of the world. We were content to abide by the rivalries of manufacture, science
and commerce that were involved for us in her success, and stand or fall as we had or did not
have the brains and the initiative to surpass her. But at the moment when she had conspicuously
won her triumphs of peace she threw them away, to establish in their stead what the world will
no longer permit to be established, military and political domination by arms, by which to
oust where she could not excel the rivals she most feared and hated. The peace we make must
remedy that wrong. It must deliver the once fair lands and happy peoples of Belgium and Northern
France from the Prussian conquest and the Prussian menace, but it must deliver also the peoples
of Austria-Hungary, the peoples of the Balkans and the peoples of Turkey, alike in Europe and
Asia, from the impudent and alien dominion of the Prussian military and commercial autocracy.

We owe it, however, to ourselves, to say that we do not wish in any way to impair or to rearrange
the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It is no affair of ours what they do with their own life, either
industrially or politically. We do not purpose or desire to dictate to them in any way. We
only desire to see that their affairs are left in their own hands, in all matters, great or
small. We shall hope to secure for the peoples of the Balkan peninsula and for the people of
the Turkish Empire the right and opportunity to make their own lives safe, their own fortunes
secure against oppression or injustice and from the dictation of foreign courts or parties.

And our attitude and purpose with regard to Germany herself are of a like kind. We intend no
wrong against the German Empire, no interference with her internal affairs. We should deem
either the one or the other absolutely unjustifiable, absolutely contrary to the principles
we have professed to live by and to hold most sacred throughout our life as a nation.

The people of Germany are being told by the men whom they now permit to deceive them and to
act as their masters that they are fighting for the very life and existence of their empire,
a war of desperate self-defense against deliberate aggression. Nothing could be more grossly
or wantonly false, and we must seek by the utmost openness and candor as to our real aims to
convince them of its falseness. We are in fact fighting for their emancipation from the fear,
along with our own-from the fear as well as from the fact of unjust attack by neighbors or
rivals or schemers after world empire. No one is threatening the existence or the independence
of the peaceful enterprise of the German Empire.

The worst that can happen to the detriment the German people is this, that if they should still,
after the war is over, continue to be obliged to live under ambitious and intriguing masters
interested to disturb the peace of the world, men or classes of men whom the other peoples
of the world could not trust, it might be impossible to admit them to the partnership of nations
which must henceforth guarantee the world's peace. That partnership must be a partnership of
peoples, not a mere partnership of governments. It might be impossible, also, in such untoward
circumstances, to admit Germany to the free economic intercourse which must inevitably spring
out of the other partnerships of a real peace. But there would be no aggression in that; and
such a situation, inevitable, because of distrust, would in the very nature of things sooner
or later cure itself, by processes which would assuredly set in.

The wrongs, the very deep wrongs, committed in this war will have to be righted. That, of course.
But they cannot and must not be righted by the commission of similar wrongs against Germany
and her allies. The world will not permit the commission of similar wrongs as a means of reparation
and settlement. Statesmen must by this time have learned that the opinion of the world is everywhere
wide awake and fully comprehends the issues involved. No representative of any self-governed
nation will dare disregard it by attempting any such covenants of selfishness and compromise
as were entered into at the Congress of Vienna. The thought of the plain people here and everywhere
throughout the world, the people who enjoy no privilege and have very simple and unsophisticated
standards of right and wrong, is the air all governments must henceforth breathe if they would
live.

It is in the full disclosing light of that thought that all policies must be received and executed
in this midday hour of the world's life. Ger. man rulers have been able to upset the peace
of the world only because the German people were not suffered under their tutelage to share
the comradeship of the other peoples of the world either in thought or in purpose. They were
allowed to have no opinion of their own which might be set up as a rule of conduct for those
who exercised authority over them. But the Congress that concludes this war will feel the full
strength of the tides that run now in the hearts and consciences of free men everywhere. Its
conclusions will run with those tides.

All those things have been true from the very beginning of this stupendous war; and I cannot
help thinking that if they had been made plain at the very outset the sympathy and enthusiasm
of the Russian people might have been once for all enlisted on the side of the Allies, suspicion
and distrust swept away, and a real and lasting union of purpose effected. Had they believed
these things at the very moment of their revolution, and had they been confirmed in that belief
since, the sad reverses which have recently marked the progress of their affairs towards an
ordered and stable government of free men might have been avoided. The Russian people have
been poisoned by the very same falsehoods that have kept the German people in the dark, and
the poison has been administered by the very same hand. The only possible antidote is the truth.
It cannot be uttered too plainly or too often.

From every point of view, therefore, it has seemed to be my duty to speak these declarations
of purpose, to add these specific interpretations to what I took the liberty of saying to the
Senate in January. Our entrance into the war has not altered out attitude towards the settlement
that must come when it is over.

When I said in January that the nations of the world were entitled not only to free pathways
upon the sea, but also to assured and unmolested access to those-pathways, I was thinking,
and I am thinking now, not of the smaller and weaker nations alone which need our countenance
and support, but also of the great and powerful nations and of our present enemies as well
as our present associates in the war. I was thinking, and am thinking now, of Austria herself,
among the rest, as well as of Serbia and of Poland.

Justice and equality of rights can be had only at a great price. We are seeking permanent,
not temporary, foundations for the peace of the world, and must seek them candidly and fearlessly.
As always, the right will prove to be the expedient.

What shall we do, then, to push this great war of freedom and justice to its righteous conclusion?
We must clear away with a thorough hand all impediments to success, and we must make every
adjustment of law that will facilitate the full and free use of our whole capacity and force
as a fighting unit.

One very embarrassing obstacle that stands hi our way is that we are at war with Germany but
not with her allies. I, therefore, very earnestly recommend that the Congress immediately declare
the United States in a state of war with Austria-Hungary. Does it seem strange to you that
this should be the conclusion of the argument I have just addressed to you? It is not. It is
in fact the inevitable logic of what I have said. Austria-Hungary is for the time being not
her own mistress but simply the vassal of the German Government.

We must face the facts as they are and act upon them without sentiment in this stern business.
The Government of Austria and Hungary is not acting upon its own initiative or in response
to the wishes and feelings of its own peoples, but as the instrument of another nation. We
must meet its force with our own and regard the Central Powers as but one. The war can be successfully
conducted in no other way.

The same logic would lead also to a declaration of war against Turkey and Bulgaria. They also
are the tools of Germany, but they are mere tools and do not yet stand in the direct path of
our necessary action. We shall go wherever the necessities of this war carry us, but it seems
to me that we should go only where immediate and practical considerations lead us, and not
heed any others.

The financial and military measures which must be adopted will suggest themselves as the war
and its undertakings develop, but I will take the liberty of proposing to you certain other
acts of legislation which seem to me to be needed for the support of the war and for the release
of our whole force and energy.

It will be necessary to extend in certain particulars the legislation of the last session with
regard to alien enemies, and also necessary, I believe, to create a very definite and particular
control over the entrance and departure of all persons into and from the United States.

Legislation should be enacted defining as a criminal offense every wilful violation of the
presidential proclamation relating to alien enemies promulgated under section 4o67 of the revised
statutes and providing appropriate punishments; and women, as well as men, should be included
under the terms of the acts placing restraints upon alien enemies.

It is likely that as time goes on many alien enemies will be willing to be fed and housed at
the expense of the Government in the detention camps, and it would be the purpose of the legislation
I have suggested to confine offenders among them in the penitentiaries and other similar institutions
where they could be made to work as other criminals do.

Recent experience has convinced me that the Congress must go further in authorizing the Government
to set limits to prices. The law of supply and demand, I am sorry to say, has been replaced
by the law of unrestrained selfishness. While we have eliminated profiteering in several branches
of industry, it still runs impudently rampant in others. The farmers for example, complain
with a great deal of justice that, while the regulation of food prices restricts their incomes,
no restraints are placed upon the prices of most of the things they must themselves purchase;
and similar inequities obtain on all sides.

It is imperatively necessary that the consideration of the full use of the water power of the
country, and also of the consideration of the systematic and yet economical development of
such of the natural resources of the country as are still under the control of the Federal
Government should be immediately resumed and affirmatively and constructively dealt with at
the earliest possible moment. The pressing need of such legislation is daily becoming more obvious.

The legislation proposed at the last session with regard to regulated combinations among our
exporters in order to provide for our foreign trade a more effective organization and method
of co-operation ought by all means to be completed at this session.

And I beg that the members of the House of Representatives will permit me to express the opinion
that it will be impossible to deal in any but a very wasteful and extravagant fashion with
the enormous appropriations of the public moneys which must continue to be made if the war
is to be properly sustained, unless the House will consent to return to its former practice
of initiating and preparing all appropriation bills through a single committee, in order that
responsibility may be centered, expenditures standardized and made uniform, and waste and duplication
as much as possible avoided.

Additional legislation may also become necessary before the present Congress again adjourns
in order to effect the most efficient co-ordination and operation of the railways and other
transportation systems of the country; but to that I shall, if circumstances should demand,
call the attention of Congress upon another occasion.

If I have overlooked anything that ought to be done for the more effective conduct of the war,
your own counsels will supply the omission. What I am perfectly clear about is that in the
present session of the Congress our whole attention and energy should be concentrated on the
vigorous, rapid and successful prosecution of the great task of winning the war.

We can do this with all the greater zeal and enthusiasm because we know that for us this is
a war of high principle, debased by no selfish ambition of conquest or spoliation; because
we know, and all the world knows, that we have been forced into it to save the very institutions
we five under from corruption and destruction. The purpose of the Central Powers strikes straight
at the very heart of everything we believe in; their methods of warfare outrage every principle
of humanity and of knightly honor; their intrigue has corrupted the very thought and spirit
of many of our people; their sinister and secret diplomacy has sought to take our very territory
away from us and disrupt the union of the states. Our safety would be at an end, our honor
forever sullied and brought into contempt, were we to permit their triumph. They are striking
at the very existence of democracy and liberty.

It is because it is for us a war of high, disinterested purpose, in which all the free peoples
of the world are banded together for the vindication of right, a war for the preservation of
our nation, of all that it has held dear, of principle and of purpose, that we feel ourselves
doubly constrained to propose for its outcome only that which is righteous and of irreproachable
intention, for our foes as well as for our friends. The cause being just and holy, the settlement
must be of like motive and equality. For this we can fight, but for nothing less noble or less
worthy of our traditions. For this cause we entered the war and for this cause will we battle
until the last gun is fired.

I have spoken plainly because this seems to me the time when it is most necessary to speak
plainly, in order that all the world may know that, even in the heat and ardor of the struggle
and when our whole thought is of carrying the war through to its end, we have not forgotten
any ideal or principle for which the name of America has been held in honor among the nations
and for which it has been our glory to contend in the great generations that went before us.
A supreme moment of history has come. The eyes of the people have been opened and they see.
The hand of God is laid upon the nations. He will show them favor, I devoutly believe, only
if they rise to the clear heights of His own justice and mercy.

***

State of the Union Address Woodrow Wilson December 2, 1918

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

The year that has elapsed since I last stood before you to fulfil my constitutional duty to
give to the Congress from time to time information on the state of the Union has been so crowded
with great events, great processes, and great results that I cannot hope to give you an adequate
picture of its transactions or of the far-reaching changes which have been wrought of our nation
and of the world. You have yourselves witnessed these things, as I have. It is too soon to
assess them; and we who stand in the midst of them and are part of them are less qualified
than men of another generation will be to say what they mean, or even what they have been.
But some great outstanding facts are unmistakable and constitute, in a sense, part of the public
business with which it is our duty to deal. To state them is to set the stage for the legislative
and executive action which must grow out of them and which we have yet to shape and determine.

A year ago we had sent 145,918 men overseas. Since then we have sent 1,950,513, an average
of 162,542 each month, the number in fact rising, in May last, to 245,951, in June to 278,760,
in July to 307,182, and continuing to reach similar figures in August and September, in August
289,570 and in September 257,438. No such movement of troops ever took place before, across
three thousand miles of sea, followed by adequate equipment and supplies, and carried safely
through extraordinary dangers of attack,-dangers which were alike strange and infinitely difficult
to guard against. In all this movement only seven hundred and fifty-eight men were lost by
enemy attack, six hundred and thirty of whom were upon a single English transport which was
sunk near the Orkney Islands.

I need not tell you what lay back of this great movement of men and material. It is not invidious
to say that back of it lay a supporting organization of the industries of the country and of
all its productive activities more complete, more thorough in method and effective in result,
more spirited and unanimous in purpose and effort than any other great belligerent had been
able to effect. We profited greatly by the experience of the nations which had already been
engaged for nearly three years in the exigent and exacting business, their every resource and
every executive proficiency taxed to the utmost. We were their pupils. But we learned quickly
and acted with a promptness and a readiness of cooperation that justify our great pride that
we were able to serve the world with unparalleled energy and quick accomplishment.

But it is not the physical scale and executive efficiency of preparation, supply, equipment
and despatch that I would dwell upon, but the mettle and quality of the officers and men we
sent over and of the sailors who kept the seas, and the spirit of the nation that stood behind
them. No soldiers or sailors ever proved themselves more quickly ready for the test of battle
or acquitted themselves with more splendid courage and achievement when put to the test. Those
of us who played some part in directing the great processes by which the war was pushed irresistibly
forward to the final triumph may now forget all that and delight our thoughts with the story
of what our men did. Their officers understood the grim and exacting task they had undertaken
and performed it with an audacity, efficiency, and unhesitating courage that touch the story
of convoy and battle with imperishable distinction at every turn, whether the enterprise were
great or small, from their great chiefs, Pershing and Sims, down to the youngest lieutenant;
and their men were worthy of them,-such men as hardly need to be commanded, and go to their
terrible adventure blithely and with the quick intelligence of those who know just what it
is they would accomplish. I am proud to be the fellow-countryman of men of such stuff and valor.
Those of us who stayed at home did our duty; the war could not have been won or the gallant
men who fought it given their opportunity to win it otherwise; but for many a long day we shall
think ourselves "accurs'd we were not there, and hold our manhoods cheap while any speaks that
fought" with these at St. Mihiel or Thierry. The memory of those days of triumphant battle
will go with these fortunate men to their graves; and each will have his favorite memory. "Old
men forget; yet all shall be forgot, but hell remember with advantages what feats he did that day!"

What we all thank God for with deepest gratitude is that our men went in force into the line
of battle just at the critical moment when the whole fate of the world seemed to hang in the
balance and threw their fresh strength into the ranks of freedom in time to turn the whole
tide and sweep of the fateful struggle,-turn it once for all, so that thenceforth it was back,
back, back for their enemies, always back, never again forward! After that it was only a scant
four months before the commanders of the Central Empires knew themselves beaten; and now their
very empires are in liquidation!

And throughout it all how fine the spirit of the nation was: what unity of purpose, what untiring
zeal! What elevation of purpose ran through all its splendid display of strength, its untiring
accomplishment! I have said that those of us who stayed at home to do the work of organization
and supply will always wish that we had been with the men whom we sustained by our labor; but
we can never be ashamed. It has been an inspiring thing to be here in the midst of fine men
who had turned aside from every private interest of their own and devoted the whole of their
trained capacity to the tasks that supplied the sinews of the whole great undertaking! The
patriotism, the unselfishness, the thoroughgoing devotion and distinguished capacity that marked
their toilsome labors, day after day, month after month, have made them fit mates and comrades
of the men in the trenches and on the sea. And not the men here in Washington only. They have
but directed the vast achievement. Throughout innumerable factories, upon innumerable farms,
in the depths of coal mines and iron mines and copper mines, wherever the stuffs of industry
were to be obtained and prepared, in the shipyards, on the railways, at the docks, on the sea,
in every labor that was needed to sustain the battle lines, men have vied with each other to
do their part and do it well. They can look any man-at-arms in the face, and say, We also strove
to win and gave the best that was in us to make our fleets and armies sure of their triumph!

And what shall we say of the women,-of their instant intelligence, quickening every task that
they touched; their capacity for organization and cooperation, which gave their action discipline
and enhanced the effectiveness of everything they attempted; their aptitude at tasks to which
they had never before set their hands; their utter self-sacrifice alike in what they did and
in what they gave? Their contribution to the great result is beyond appraisal. They have added
a new lustre to the annals of American womanhood.

The least tribute we can pay them is to make them the equals of men in political rights as
they have proved themselves their equals in every field of practical work they have entered,
whether for themselves or for their country. These great days of completed achievement would
be sadly marred were we to omit that act of justice. Besides the immense practical services
they have rendered the women of the country have been the moving spirits in the systematic
economies by which our people have voluntarily assisted to supply the suffering peoples of
the world and the armies upon every front with food and everything else that we had that might
serve the common cause. The details of such a story can never be fully written, but we carry
them at our hearts and thank God that we can say that we are the kinsmen of such.

And now we are sure of the great triumph for which every sacrifice was made. It has come, come
in its completeness, and with the pride and inspiration of these days of achievement quick
within us, we turn to the tasks of peace again,-a peace secure against the violence of irresponsible
monarchs and ambitious military coteries and made ready for a new order, for new foundations
of justice and fair dealing.

We are about to give order and organization to this peace not only for ourselves but for the
other peoples of the world as well, so far as they will suffer us to serve them. It is international
justice that we seek, not domestic safety merely. Our thoughts have dwelt of late upon Europe,
upon Asia, upon the near and the far East, very little upon the acts of peace and accommodation
that wait to be performed at our own doors. While we are adjusting our relations with the rest
of the world is it not of capital importance that we should clear away all grounds of misunderstanding
with our immediate neighbors and give proof of the friendship we really feel? I hope that the
members of the Senate will permit me to speak once more of the unratified treaty of friendship
and adjustment with the Republic of Colombia. I very earnestly urge upon them an early and
favorable action upon that vital matter. I believe that they will feel, with me, that the stage
of affairs is now set for such action as will be not only just but generous and in the spirit
of the new age upon which we have so happily entered.

So far as our domestic affairs are concerned the problem of our return to peace is a problem
of economic and industrial readjustment. That problem is less serious for us than it may turn
out too he for the nations which have suffered the disarrangements and the losses of war longer
than we. Our people, moreover, do not wait to be coached and led. They know their own business,
are quick and resourceful at every readjustment, definite in purpose, and self-reliant in action.
Any leading strings we might seek to put them in would speedily become hopelessly tangled because
they would pay no attention to them and go their own way. All that we can do as their legislative
and executive servants is to mediate the process of change here, there, and elsewhere as we
may. I have heard much counsel as to the plans that should be formed and personally conducted
to a happy consummation, but from no quarter have I seen any general scheme of "reconstruction"
emerge which I thought it likely we could force our spirited business men and self-reliant
laborers to accept with due pliancy and obedience.

While the war lasted we set up many agencies by which to direct the industries of the country
in the services it was necessary for them to render, by which to make sure of an abundant supply
of the materials needed, by which to check undertakings that could for the time be dispensed
with and stimulate those that were most serviceable in war, by which to gain for the purchasing
departments of the Government a certain control over the prices of essential articles and materials,
by which to restrain trade with alien enemies, make the most of the available shipping, and
systematize financial transactions, both public and private, so that there would be no unnecessary
conflict or confusion,-by which, in short, to put every material energy of the country in harness
to draw the common load and make of us one team in the accomplishment of a great task. But
the moment we knew the armistice to have been signed we took the harness off. Raw materials
upon which the Government had kept its hand for fear there should not be enough for the industries
that supplied the armies have been released and put into the general market again. Great industrial
plants whose whole output and machinery had been taken over for the uses of the Government
have been set free to return to the uses to which they were put before the war. It has not
been possible to remove so readily or so quickly the control of foodstuffs and of shipping,
because the world has still to be fed from our granaries and the ships are still needed to
send supplies to our men overseas and to bring the men back as fast as the disturbed conditions
on the other side of the water permit; but even there restraints are being relaxed as much
as possible and more and more as the weeks go by.

Never before have there been agencies in existence in this country which knew so much of the
field of supply, of labor, and of industry as the War Industries Board, the War Trade Board,
the Labor Department, the Food Administration, and the Fuel Administration have known since
their labors became thoroughly systematized; and they have not been isolated agencies; they
have been directed by men who represented the permanent Departments of the Government and so
have been the centres of unified and cooperative action. It has been the policy of the Executive,
therefore, since the armistice was assured (which is in effect a complete submission of the
enemy) to put the knowledge of these bodies at the disposal of the business men of the country
and to offer their intelligent mediation at every point and in every matter where it was desired.
It is surprising how fast the process of return to a peace footing has moved in the three weeks
since the fighting stopped. It promises to outrun any inquiry that may be instituted and any
aid that may be offered. It will not be easy to direct it any better than it will direct itself.
The American business man is of quick initiative.

The ordinary and normal processes of private initiative will not, however, provide immediate
employment for all of the men of our returning armies. Those who are of trained capacity, those
who are skilled workmen, those who have acquired familiarity with established businesses, those
who are ready and willing to go to the farms, all those whose aptitudes are known or will be
sought out by employers will find no difficulty, it is safe to say, in finding place and employment.
But there will be others who will be at a loss where to gain a livelihood unless pains are
taken to guide them and put them in the way of work. There will be a large floating residuum
of labor which should not be left wholly to shift for itself. It seems to me important, therefore,
that the development of public works of every sort should be promptly resumed, in order that
opportunities should be created for unskilled labor in particular, and that plans should be
made for such developments of our unused lands and our natural resources as we have hitherto
lacked stimulation to undertake.

I particularly direct your attention to the very practical plans which the Secretary of the
Interior has developed in his annual report and before your Committees for the reclamation
of arid, swamp, and cutover lands which might, if the States were willing and able to cooperate,
redeem some three hundred million acres of land for cultivation. There are said to be fifteen
or twenty million acres of land in the West, at present arid, for whose reclamation water is
available, if properly conserved. There are about two hundred and thirty million acres from
which the forests have been cut but which have never yet been cleared for the plow and which
lie waste and desolate. These lie scattered all over the Union. And there are nearly eighty
million acres of land that lie under swamps or subject to periodical overflow or too wet for
anything but grazing, which it is perfectly feasible to drain and protect and redeem. The Congress
can at once direct thousands of the returning soldiers to the reclamation of the arid lands
which it has already undertaken, if it will but enlarge the plans and appropriations which
it has entrusted to the Department of the Interior. It is possible in dealing with our unused
land to effect a great rural and agricultural development which will afford the best sort of
opportunity to men who want to help themselves and the Secretary of the Interior has thought
the possible methods out in a way which is worthy of your most friendly attention.

I have spoken of the control which must yet for a while, perhaps for a long long while, be
exercised over shipping because of the priority of service to which our forces overseas are
entitled and which should also be accorded the shipments which are to save recently liberated
peoples from starvation and many devastated regions from permanent ruin. May I not say a special
word about the needs of Belgium and northern France? No sums of money paid by way of indemnity
will serve of themselves to save them from hopeless disadvantage for years to come. Something
more must be done than merely find the money. If they had money and raw materials in abundance
to-morrow they could not resume their place in the industry of the world to-morrow,-the very
important place they held before the flame of war swept across them. Many of their factories
are razed to the ground. Much of their machinery is destroyed or has been taken away. Their
people are scattered and many of their best workmen are dead. Their markets will be taken by
others, if they are not in some special way assisted to rebuild their factories and replace
their lost instruments of manufacture. They should not be left to the vicissitudes of the sharp
competition for materials and for industrial facilities which is now to set in. I hope, therefore,
that the Congress will not be unwilling, if it should become necessary, to grant to some such
agency as the War Trade Board the right to establish priorities of export and supply for the
benefit of these people whom we have been so happy to assist in saving from the German terror
and whom we must not now thoughtlessly leave to shift for themselves in a pitiless competitive
market.

For the steadying, and facilitation of our own domestic business readjustments nothing is more
important than the immediate determination of the taxes that are to be levied for 1918, 1919,
and 1920. As much of the burden of taxation must be lifted from business as sound methods of
financing the Government will permit, and those who conduct the great essential industries
of the country must be told as exactly as possible what obligations to the Government they
will be expected to meet in the years immediately ahead of them. It will be of serious consequence
to the country to delay removing all uncertainties in this matter a single day longer than
the right processes of debate justify. It is idle to talk of successful and confident business
reconstruction before those uncertainties are resolved.

If the war had continued it would have been necessary to raise at least eight billion dollars
by taxation payable in the year 1919; but the war has ended and I agree with the Secretary
of the Treasury that it will be safe to reduce the amount to six billions. An immediate rapid
decline in the expenses of the Government is not to be looked for. Contracts made for war supplies
will, indeed, be rapidly cancelled and liquidated, but their immediate liquidation will make
heavy drains on the Treasury for the months just ahead of us. The maintenance of our forces
on the other side of the sea is still necessary. A considerable proportion of those forces
must remain in Europe during the period of occupation, and those which are brought home will
be transported and demobilized at heavy expense for months to come. The interest on our war
debt must of course be paid and provision made for the retirement of the obligations of the
Government which represent it. But these demands will of course fall much below what a continuation
of military operations would have entailed and six billions should suffice to supply a sound
foundation for the financial operations of the year.

I entirely concur with the Secretary of the Treasury in recommending that the two billions
needed in addition to the four billions provided by existing law be obtained from the profits
which have accrued and shall accrue from war contracts and distinctively war business, but
that these taxes be confined to the war profits accruing in 1918, or in 1919 from business
originating in war contracts. I urge your acceptance of his recommendation that provision be
made now, not subsequently, that the taxes to be paid in 1920 should be reduced from six to
four billions. Any arrangements less definite than these would add elements of doubt and confusion
to the critical period of industrial readjustment through which the country must now immediately
pass, and which no true friend of the nation's essential business interests can afford to be
responsible for creating or prolonging. Clearly determined conditions, clearly and simply charted,
are indispensable to the economic revival and rapid industrial development which may confidently
be expected if we act now and sweep all interrogation points away.

I take it for granted that the Congress will carry out the naval programme which was undertaken
before we entered the war. The Secretary of the Navy has submitted to your Committees for authorization
that part of the programme which covers the building plans of the next three years. These plans
have been prepared along the lines and in accordance with the policy which the Congress established,
not under the exceptional conditions of the war, but with the intention of adhering to a definite
method of development for the navy. I earnestly recommend the uninterrupted pursuit of that
policy. It would clearly be unwise for us to attempt to adjust our programmes to a future world
policy as yet undetermined.

The question which causes me the greatest concern is the question of the policy to be adopted
towards the railroads. I frankly turn to you for counsel upon it. I have no confident judgment
of my own. I do not see how any thoughtful man can have who knows anything of the complexity
of the problem. It is a problem which must be studied, studied immediately, and studied without
bias or prejudice. Nothing can be gained by becoming partisans of any particular plan of settlement.

It was necessary that the administration of the railways should be taken over by the Government
so long as the war lasted. It would have been impossible otherwise to establish and carry through
under a single direction the necessary priorities of shipment. It would have been impossible
otherwise to combine maximum production at the factories and mines and farms with the maximum
possible car supply to take the products to the ports and markets; impossible to route troop
shipments and freight shipments without regard to the advantage or-disadvantage of the roads
employed; impossible to subordinate, when necessary, all questions of convenience to the public
necessity; impossible to give the necessary financial support to the roads from the public
treasury. But all these necessities have now been served, and the question is, What is best
for the railroads and for the public in the future?

Exceptional circumstances and exceptional methods of administration were not needed to convince
us that the railroads were not equal to the immense tasks of transportation imposed upon them
by the rapid and continuous development of the industries of the country. We knew that already.
And we knew that they were unequal to it partly because their full cooperation was rendered
impossible by law and their competition made obligatory, so that it has been impossible to
assign to them severally the traffic which could best be carried by their respective lines
in the interest of expedition and national economy.

We may hope, I believe, for the formal conclusion of the war by treaty by the time Spring has
come. The twenty-one months to which the present control of the railways is limited after formal
proclamation of peace shall have been made will run at the farthest, I take it for granted,
only to the January of 1921. The full equipment of the railways which the federal administration
had planned could not be completed within any such period. The present law does not permit
the use of the revenues of the several roads for the execution of such plans except by formal
contract with their directors, some of whom will consent while some will not, and therefore
does not afford sufficient authority to undertake improvements upon the scale upon which it
would be necessary to undertake them. Every approach to this difficult subject-matter of decision
brings us face to face, therefore, with this unanswered question: What is it right that we
should do with the railroads, in the interest of the public and in fairness to their owners?

Let me say at once that I have no answer ready. The only thing that is perfectly clear to me
is that it is not fair either to the public or to the owners of the railroads to leave the
question unanswered and that it will presently become my duty to relinquish control of the
roads, even before the expiration of the statutory period, unless there should appear some
clear prospect in the meantime of a legislative solution. Their release would at least produce
one element of a solution, namely certainty and a quick stimulation of private initiative.

I believe that it will be serviceable for me to set forth as explicitly as possible the alternative
courses that lie open to our choice. We can simply release the roads and go back to the old
conditions of private management, unrestricted competition, and multiform regulation by both
state and federal authorities; or we can go to the opposite extreme and establish complete
government control, accompanied, if necessary, by actual government ownership; or we can adopt
an intermediate course of modified private control, under a more unified and affirmative public
regulation and under such alterations of the law as will permit wasteful competition to be
avoided and a considerable degree of unification of administration to be effected, as, for
example, by regional corporations under which the railways of definable areas would be in effect
combined in single systems.

The one conclusion that I am ready to state with confidence is that it would be a disservice
alike to the country and to the owners of the railroads to return to the old conditions unmodified.
Those are conditions of restraint without development. There is nothing affirmative or helpful
about them. What the country chiefly needs is that all its means of transportation should be
developed, its railways, its waterways, its highways, and its countryside roads. Some new element
of policy, therefore, is absolutely necessary--necessary for the service of the public, necessary
for the release of credit to those who are administering the railways, necessary for the protection
of their security holders. The old policy may be changed much or little, but surely it cannot
wisely be left as it was. I hope that the Con will have a complete and impartial study of the
whole problem instituted at once and prosecuted as rapidly as possible. I stand ready and anxious
to release the roads from the present control and I must do so at a very early date if by waiting
until the statutory limit of time is reached I shall be merely prolonging the period of doubt
and uncertainty which is hurtful to every interest concerned.

I welcome this occasion to announce to the Congress my purpose to join in Paris the representatives
of the governments with which we have been associated in the war against the Central Empires
for the purpose of discussing with them the main features of the treaty of peace. I realize
the great inconveniences that will attend my leaving the country, particularly at this time,
but the conclusion that it was my paramount duty to go has been forced upon me by considerations
which I hope will seem as conclusive to you as they have seemed to me.

The Allied governments have accepted the bases of peace which I outlined to the Congress on
the eighth of January last, as the Central Empires also have, and very reasonably desire my
personal counsel in their interpretation and application, and it is highly desirable that I
should give it in order that the sincere desire of our Government to contribute without selfish
purpose of any kind to settlements that will be of common benefit to all the nations concerned
may be made fully manifest. The peace settlements which are now to be agreed upon are of transcendent
importance both to us and to the rest of the world, and I know of no business or interest which
should take precedence of them. The gallant men of our armed forces on land and sea have consciously
fought for the ideals which they knew to be the ideals of their country; I have sought to express
those ideals; they have accepted my statements of them as the substance of their own thought
and purpose, as the associated governments have accepted them; I owe it to them to see to it,
so far as in me lies, that no false or mistaken interpretation is put upon them, and no possible
effort omitted to realize them. It is now my duty to play my full part in making good what
they offered their life's blood to obtain. I can think of no call to service which could transcend
this.

I shall be in close touch with you and with affairs on this side the water, and you will know
all that I do. At my request, the French and English governments have absolutely removed the
censorship of cable news which until within a fortnight they had maintained and there is now
no censorship whatever exercised at this end except upon attempted trade communications with
enemy countries. It has been necessary to keep an open wire constantly available between Paris
and the Department of State and another between France and the Department of War. In order
that this might be done with the least possible interference with the other uses of the cables,
I have temporarily taken over the control of both cables in order that they may be used as
a single system. I did so at the advice of the most experienced cable officials, and I hope
that the results will justify my hope that the news of the next few months may pass with the
utmost freedom and with the least possible delay from each side of the sea to the other.

May I not hope, Gentlemen of the Congress, that in the delicate tasks I shall have to perform
on the other side of the sea, in my efforts truly and faithfully to interpret the principles
and purposes of the country we love, I may have the encouragement and the added strength of
your united support? I realize the magnitude and difficulty of the duty I am undertaking; I
am poignantly aware of its grave responsibilities. I am the servant of the nation. I can have
no private thought or purpose of my own in performing such an errand. I go to give the best
that is in me to the common settlements which I must now assist in arriving at in conference
with the other working heads of the associated governments. I shall count upon your friendly
countenance and encouragement. I shall not be inaccessible. The cables and the wireless will
render me available for any counsel or service you may desire of me, and I shall be happy in
the thought that I am constantly in touch with the weighty matters of domestic policy with
which we shall have to deal. I shall make my absence as brief as possible and shall hope to
return with the happy assurance that it has been possible to translate into action the great
ideals for which America has striven.

***

State of the Union Address Woodrow Wilson December 2, 1919

TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

I sincerely regret that I cannot be present at the opening of this session of the Congress.
I am thus prevented from presenting in as direct a way as I could wish the many questions that
are pressing for solution at this time. Happily, I have had the advantage of the advice of
the heads of the several executive departments who have kept in close touch with affairs in
their detail and whose thoughtful recommendations I earnestly second.

In the matter of the railroads and the readjustment of their affairs growing out of Federal
control, I shall take the liberty at a later date of addressing you.

I hope that Congress will bring to a conclusion at this session legislation looking to the
establishment of a budget system. That there should be one single authority responsible for
the making of all appropriations and that appropriations should be made not independently of
each other, but with reference to one single comprehensive plan of expenditure properly related
to the nation's income, there can be no doubt I believe the burden of preparing the budget
must, in the nature of the case, if the work is to be properly done and responsibility concentrated
instead of divided, rest upon the executive. The budget so prepared should be submitted to
and approved or amended by a single committee of each House of Congress and no single appropriation
should be made by the Congress, except such as may have been included in the budget prepared
by the executive or added by the particular committee of Congress charged with the budget legislation.

Another and not less important aspect of the problem is the ascertainment of the economy and
efficiency with which the moneys appropriated are expended. Under existing law the only audit
is for the purpose of ascertaining whether expenditures have been lawfully made within the
appropriations. No one is authorized or equipped to ascertain whether the money has been spent
wisely, economically and effectively. The auditors should be highly trained officials with
permanent tenure in the Treasury Department, free of obligations to or motives of consideration
for this or any subsequent administration, and authorized and empowered to examine into and
make report upon the methods employed and the results obtained by the executive departments
of the Government. Their reports should be made to the Congress and to the Secretary of the
Treasury.

I trust that the Congress will give its immediate consideration to the problem of future taxation.
Simplification of the income and profits taxes has become an immediate necessity. These taxes
performed indispensable service during the war. They must, however, be simplified, not only
to save the taxpayer inconvenience and expense, but in order that his liability may be made
certain and definite.

With reference to the details of the Revenue Law, the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue will lay before you for your consideration certain amendments necessary
or desirable in connection with the administration of the law-recommendations which have my
approval and support. It is of the utmost importance that in dealing with this matter the present
law should not be disturbed so far as regards taxes for the calendar year 1920 payable in the
calendar year 1921. The Congress might well consider whether the higher rates of income and
profits taxes can in peace times be effectively productive of revenue, and whether they may
not, on the contrary, be destructive of business activity and productive of waste and inefficiency.
There is a point at which in peace times high rates of income and profits taxes discourage
energy, remove the incentive to new enterprises, encourage extravagant expenditures and produce
industrial stagnation with consequent unemployment and other attendant evils.

The problem is not an easy one. A fundamental change has taken place with reference to the
position of America in the world's affairs. The prejudice and passions engendered by decades
of controversy between two schools of political and economic thought,-the one believers in
protection of American industries, the other believers in tariff for revenue only,-must be
subordinated to the single consideration of the public interest in the light of utterly changed
conditions. Before the war America was heavily the debtor of the rest of the world and the
interest payments she had to make to foreign countries on American securities held abroad,
the expenditures of American travelers abroad and the ocean freight charges she had to pay
to others, about balanced the value of her pre-war favorable balance of trade. During the war
America's exports have been greatly stimulated, and increased prices have increased their value.
On the other hand, she has purchased a large proportion of the American securities previously
held abroad, has loaned some $9,000,000,000 to foreign governments, and has built her own ships.
Our favorable balance of trade has thus been greatly increased and Europe has been deprived
of the means of meeting it heretofore existing. Europe can have only three ways of meeting
the favorable balance of trade in peace times: by imports into this country of gold or of goods,
or by establishing new credits. Europe is in no position at the present time to ship gold to
us nor could we contemplate large further imports of gold into this country without concern.
The time has nearly passed for international governmental loans and it will take time to develop
in this country a market for foreign securities. Anything, therefore, which would tend to prevent
foreign countries from settling for our exports by shipments of goods into this country could
only have the effect of preventing them from paying for our exports and therefore of preventing
the exports from being made. The productivity of the country, greatly stimulated by the war,
must find an outlet by exports to foreign countries, and any measures taken to prevent imports
will inevitably curtail exports, force curtailment of production, load the banking machinery
of the country with credits to carry unsold products and produce industrial stagnation and
unemployment. If we want to sell, we must be prepared to buy. Whatever, therefore, may have
been our views during the period of growth of American business concerning tariff legislation,
we must now adjust our own economic life to a changed condition growing out of the fact that
American business is full grown and that America is the greatest capitalist in the world.

No policy of isolation will satisfy the growing needs and opportunities of America. The provincial
standards and policies of the past, which have held American business as if in a strait-jacket,
must yield and give way to the needs and exigencies of the new day in which we live, a day
full of hope and promise for American business, if we will but take advantage of the opportunities
that are ours for the asking. The recent war has ended our isolation and thrown upon us a great
duty and responsibility. The United States must share the expanding world market. The United
States desires for itself only equal opportunity with the other nations of the world, and that
through the process of friendly cooperation and fair competition the legitimate interests of
the nations concerned may be successfully and equitably adjusted.

There are other matters of importance upon which I urged action at the last session of Congress
which are still pressing for solution. I am sure it is not necessary for me again to remind
you that there is one immediate and very practicable question resulting from the war which
we should meet in the most liberal spirit. It is a matter of recognition and relief to our
soldiers. I can do no better than to quote from my last message urging this very action:

"We must see to it that our returning soldiers are assisted in every practicable way to find
the places for which they are fitted in the daily work of the country. This can be done by
developing and maintaining upon an adequate scale the admirable organization created by the
Department of Labor for placing men seeking work; and it can also be done, in at least one
very great field, by creating new opportunities for individual enterprise. The Secretary of
the Interior has pointed out the way by which returning soldiers may be helped to find and
take up land in the hitherto undeveloped regions of the country which the Federal Government
has already prepared, or can readily prepare, for cultivation and also on many of the cutover
or neglected areas which lie within the limits of the older states; and I once more take the
liberty of recommending very urgently that his plans shall receive the immediate and substantial
support of the Congress."

In the matter of tariff legislation, I beg to call your attention to the statements contained
in my last message urging legislation with reference to the establishment of the chemical and
dyestuffs industry in America:

"Among the industries to which special consideration should be given is that of the manufacture
of dyestuffs and related chemicals. Our complete dependence upon German supplies before the
war made the interruption of trade a cause of exceptional economic disturbance. The close relation
between the manufacture of dyestuffs, on the one hand, and of explosive and poisonous gases,
on the other, moreover, has given the industry an exceptional significance and value. Although
the United States will gladly and unhesitatingly join in the programme of international disarmament,
it will, nevertheless, be a policy of obvious prudence to make certain of the successful maintenance
of many strong and well-equipped chemical plants. The German chemical industry, with which
we will be brought into competition, was and may well be again, a thoroughly knit monopoly
capable of exercising a competition of a peculiarly insidious and dangerous kind."

During the war the farmer performed a vital and willing service to the nation. By materially
increasing the production of his land, he supplied America and the Allies with the increased
amounts of food necessary to keep their immense armies in the field. He indispensably helped
to win the war. But there is now scarcely less need of increasing the production in food -and
the necessaries of life. I ask the Congress to consider means of encouraging effort along these
lines. The importance of doing everything possible to promote production along economical lines,
to improve marketing, and to make rural life more attractive and healthful, is obvious. I would
urge approval of the plans already proposed to the Congress by the Secretary of Agriculture,
to secure the essential facts required for the proper study of this question, through the proposed
enlarged programmes for farm management studies and crop estimates. I would urge, also, the
continuance of Federal participation in the building of good roads, under the terms of existing
law and under the direction of present agencies; the need of further action on the part of
the States and the Federal Government to preserve and develop our forest resources, especially
through the practice of better forestry methods on private holdings and the extension of the
publicly owned forests; better support for country schools and the more definite direction
of their courses of study along lines related to rural problems; and fuller provision for sanitation
in rural districts and the building up of needed hospital and medical facilities in these localities.
Perhaps the way might be cleared for many of these desirable reforms by a fresh, comprehensive
survey made of rural conditions by a conference composed of representatives of the farmers
and of the agricultural agencies responsible for leadership.

I would call your attention to the widespread condition of political restlessness in our body
politic. The causes of this unrest, while various and complicated, are superficial rather than
deep-seated. Broadly, they arise from or are connected with the failure on the part of our
Government to arrive speedily at a just and permanent peace permitting return to normal conditions,
from the transfusion of radical theories from seething European centers pending such delay,
from heartless profiteering resulting in the increase of the cost of living, and lastly from
the machinations of passionate and malevolent agitators. With the return to normal conditions,
this unrest will rapidly disappear. In the meantime, it does much evil. It seems to me that
in dealing with this situation Congress should not be impatient or drastic but should seek
rather to remove the causes. It should endeavor to bring our country back speedily to a peace
basis, with ameliorated living conditions under the minimum of restrictions upon personal liberty
that is consistent with our reconstruction problems. And it should arm the Federal Government
with power to deal in its criminal courts with those persons who by violent methods would abrogate
our time-tested institutions. With the free expression of opinion and with the advocacy of
orderly political change, however fundamental, there must be no interference, but towards passion
and malevolence tending to incite crime and insurrection under guise of political evolution
there should be no leniency. Legislation to this end has been recommended by the Attorney General
and should be enacted. In this direct connection, I would call your attention to my recommendations
on August 8th, pointing out legislative measures which would be effective in controlling and
bringing down the present cost of living, which contributes so largely to this unrest. On only
one of these recommendations has the Congress acted. If the Government's campaign is to be
effective, it is necessary that the other steps suggested should be acted on at once.

I renew and strongly urge the necessity of the extension of the present Food Control Act as
to the period of time in which it shall remain in operation. The Attorney General has submitted
a bill providing for an extension of this Act for a period of six months. As it now stands,
it is limited in operation to the period of the war and becomes inoperative upon the formal
proclamation of peace. It is imperative that it should be extended at once. The Department
of justice has built up extensive machinery for the purpose of enforcing its provisions; all
of which must be abandoned upon the conclusion of peace unless the provisions of this Act are
extended.

During this period the Congress will have an opportunity to make similar permanent provisions
and regulations with regard to all goods destined for interstate commerce and to exclude them
from interstate shipment, if the requirements of the law are not compiled with. Some such regulation
is imperatively necessary. The abuses that have grown up in the manipulation of prices by the
withholding of foodstuffs and other necessaries of life cannot otherwise be effectively prevented.
There can be no doubt of either the necessity of the legitimacy of such measures.

As I pointed out in my last message, publicity can accomplish a great deal in this campaign.
The aims of the Government must be clearly brought to the attention of the consuming public,
civic organizations and state officials, who are in a position to lend their assistance to
our efforts. You have made available funds with which to carry on this campaign, but there
is no provision in the law authorizing their expenditure for the purpose of making the public
fully informed about the efforts of the Government. Specific recommendation has been made by
the Attorney General in this regard. I would strongly urge upon you its immediate adoption,
as it constitutes one of the preliminary steps to this campaign.

I also renew my recommendation that the Congress pass a law regulating cold storage as it is
regulated, for example, by the laws of the State of New Jersey, which limit the time during
which goods may be kept in storage, prescribe the method of disposing of them if kept beyond
the permitted period, and require that goods released from storage shall in all cases bear
the date of their receipt. It would materially add to the serviceability of the law, for the
purpose we now have in view, if it were also prescribed that all goods released from storage
for interstate shipment should have plainly marked upon each package the selling or market
price at which they went into storage. By this means the purchaser would always be able to
learn what profits stood between him and the producer or the wholesale dealer.

I would also renew my recommendation that all goods destined for interstate commerce should
in every case, where their form or package makes it possible, be plainly marked with the price
at which they left the hands of the producer.

We should formulate a law requiring a Federal license of all corporations engaged in interstate
commerce and embodying in the license or in the conditions under which it is to be issued,
specific regulations designed to secure competitive selling and prevent unconscionable profits
in the method of marketing. Such a law would afford a welcome opportunity to effect other much
needed reforms in the business of interstate shipment and in the methods of corporations which
are engaged in it; but for the moment I confine my recommendations to the object immediately
in hand, which is to lower the cost of living.

No one who has observed the march of events in the last year can fail to note the absolute
need of a definite programme to bring about an improvement in the conditions of labor. There
can be no settled conditions leading to increased production and a reduction in the cost of
living if labor and capital are to be antagonists instead of partners. Sound thinking and an
honest desire to serve the interests of the whole nation, as distinguished from the interests
of a class, must be applied to the solution of this great and pressing problem. The failure
of other nations to consider this matter in a vigorous way has produced bitterness and jealousies
and antagonisms, the food of radicalism. The only way to keep men from agitating against grievances
is to remove the grievances. An unwillingness even to discuss these matters produces only dissatisfaction
and gives comfort to the extreme elements in our country which endeavor to stir up disturbances
in order to provoke governments to embark upon a course of retaliation and repression. The
seed of revolution is repression. The remedy for these things must not be negative in character.
It must be constructive. It must comprehend the general interest. The real antidote for the
unrest which manifests itself is not suppression, but a deep consideration of the wrongs that
beset our national life and the application of a remedy.

Congress has already shown its willingness to deal with these industrial wrongs by establishing
the eight-hour day as the standard in every field of labor. It has sought to find a way to
prevent child labor. It has served the whole country by leading the way in developing the means
of preserving and safeguarding lives and health in dangerous industries. It must now help in
the difficult task of finding a method that will bring about a genuine democratization of industry,
based upon the full recognition of the right of those who work, in whatever rank, to participate
in some organic way in every decision which directly affects their welfare. It is with this
purpose in mind that I called a conference to meet in Washington on December 1st, to consider
these problems in all their broad aspects, with the idea of bringing about a better understanding
between these two interests.

The great unrest throughout the world, out of which has emerged a demand for an immediate consideration
of the difficulties between capital and labor, bids us put our own house in order. Frankly,
there can be no permanent and lasting settlements between capital and labor which do not recognize
the fundamental concepts for which labor has been struggling through the years. The whole world
gave its recognition and endorsement to these fundamental purposes in the League of Notions.
The statesmen gathered at Versailles recognized the fact that world stability could not be
had by reverting to industrial standards and conditions against which the average workman of
the world had revolted. It is, therefore, the task of the states men of this new day of change
and readjustment to recognize world conditions and to seek to bring about, through legislation,
conditions that will mean the ending of age-long antagonisms between capital and labor and
that will hopefully lead to the building up of a comradeship which will result not only in
greater contentment among the mass of workmen but also bring about a greater production and
a greater prosperity to business itself.

To analyze the particulars in the demands of labor is to admit the justice of their complaint
in many matters that lie at their basis. The workman demands an adequate wage, sufficient to
permit him to live in comfort, unhampered by the fear of poverty and want in his old age. He
demands the right to live and the right to work amidst sanitary surroundings, both in home
and in workshop, surroundings that develop and do not retard his own health and wellbeing;
and the right to provide for his children's wants in the matter of health and education. In
other words, it is his desire to make the conditions of his life and the lives of those dear
to him tolerable and easy to bear.

The establishment of the principles regarding labor laid down ill the covenant of the League
of Nations offers us the way to industrial peace and conciliation. No other road lies open
to us. Not to pursue this one is longer to invite enmities, bitterness, and antagonisms which
in the end only lead to industrial and social disaster. The unwilling workman is not a profitable
servant. An employee whose industrial life is hedged about by hard and unjust conditions, which
he did not create and over which he has no control, lacks that fine spirit of enthusiasm and
volunteer effort which are the necessary ingredients of a great producing entity. Let us be
frank about this solemn matter. The evidences of world-wide unrest which manifest themselves
in violence throughout the world bid us pause and consider the means to be found to stop the
spread of this contagious thing before it saps the very vitality of the nation itself. Do we
gain strength by withholding the remedy? Or is it not the business of statesmen to treat these
manifestations of unrest which meet us on every hand as evidences of an economic disorder and
to apply constructive remedies wherever necessary, being sure that in the application of the
remedy we touch not the vital tissues of our industrial and economic life? There can be no
recession of the tide of unrest until constructive instrumentalities are set up to stem that tide.

Governments must recognize the right of men collectively to bargain for humane objects that
have at their base the mutual protection and welfare of those engaged in all industries. Labor
must not be longer treated as a commodity. It must be regarded as the activity of human beings,
possessed of deep yearnings and desires. The business man gives his best thought to the repair
and replenishment of his machinery, so that its usefulness will not be impaired and its power
to produce may always be at its height and kept in full vigor and motion. No less regard ought
to be paid to the human machine, which after all propels the machinery of the world and is
the great dynamic force that lies back of all industry and progress. Return to the old standards
of wage and industry in employment are unthinkable. The terrible tragedy of war which has just
ended and which has brought the world to the verge of chaos and disaster would be in vain if
there should ensue a return to the conditions of the past. Europe itself, whence has come the
unrest which now holds the world at bay, is an example of standpatism in these vital human
matters which America might well accept as an example, not to be followed but studiously to
be avoided. Europe made labor the differential, and the price of it all is enmity and antagonism
and prostrated industry, The right of labor to live in peace and comfort must be recognized
by governments and America should be the first to lay the foundation stones upon which industrial
peace shall be built.

Labor not only is entitled to an adequate wage, but capital should receive a reasonable return
upon its investment and is entitled to protection at the hands of the Government in every emergency.
No Government worthy of the name can "play" these elements against each other, for there is
a mutuality of interest between them which the Government must seek to express and to safeguard
at all cost.

The right of individuals to strike is inviolate and ought not to be interfered with by any
process of Government, but there is a predominant right and that is the right of the Government
to protect all of its people and to assert its power and majesty against the challenge of any
class. The Government, when it asserts that right, seeks not to antagonize a class but simply
to defend the right of the whole people as against the irreparable harm and injury that might
be done by the attempt by any class to usurp a power that only Government itself has a right
to exercise as a protection to all.

In the matter of international disputes which have led to war, statesmen have sought to set
up as a remedy arbitration for war. Does this not point the way for the settlement of industrial
disputes, by the establishment of a tribunal, fair and just alike to all, which will settle
industrial disputes which in the past have led to war and disaster? America, witnessing the
evil consequences which have followed out of such disputes between these contending forces,
must not admit itself impotent to deal with these matters by means of peaceful processes. Surely,
there must be some method of bringing together in a council of peace and amity these two great
interests, out of which will come a happier day of peace and cooperation, a day that will make
men more hopeful and enthusiastic in their various tasks, that will make for more comfort and
happiness in living and a more tolerable condition among all classes of men. Certainly human
intelligence can devise some acceptable tribunal for adjusting the differences between capital
and labor.

This is the hour of test and trial for America. By her prowess and strength, and the indomitable
courage of her soldiers, she demonstrated her power to vindicate on foreign battlefields her
conceptions of liberty and justice. Let not her influence as a mediator between capital and
labor be weakened and her own failure to settle matters of purely domestic concern be proclaimed
to the world. There are those in this country who threaten direct action to force their will,
upon a majority. Russia today, with its blood and terror, is a painful object lesson of the
power of minorities. It makes little difference what minority it is; whether capital or labor,
or any other class; no sort of privilege will ever be permitted to dominate this country. We
are a partnership or nothing that is worth while. We are a democracy, where the majority are
the masters, or all the hopes and purposes of the men who founded this government have been
defeated and forgotten. In America there is but one way by which great reforms can be accomplished
and the relief sought by classes obtained, and that is through the orderly processes of representative
government. Those who would propose any other method of reform are enemies of this country.
America will not be daunted by threats nor lose her composure or calmness in these distressing
times. We can afford, in the midst of this day of passion and unrest, to be self-contained
and sure. The instrument of all reform in America is the ballot. The road to economic and social
reform in America is the straight road of justice to all classes and conditions of men. Men
have but to follow this road to realize the full fruition of their objects and purposes. Let
those beware who would take the shorter road of disorder and revolution. The right road is
the road of justice and orderly process.

***

State of the Union Address Woodrow Wilson December 7, 1920

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

When I addressed myself to performing the duty laid upon the President by the Constitution
to present to you an annual report on the state of the Union, I found my thought dominated
by an immortal sentence of Abraham Lincoln's--"Let us have faith that right makes might, and
in that faith let us dare to do our duty as we understand it"--a sentence immortal because
it embodies in a form of utter simplicity and purity the essential faith of the nation, the
faith in which it was conceived, and the faith in which it has grown to glory and power. With
that faith and the birth of a nation founded upon it came the hope into the world that a new
order would prevail throughout the affairs of mankind, an order in which reason and right would
take precedence over covetousness and force; and I believe that I express the wish and purpose
of every thoughtful American when I say that this sentence marks for us in the plainest manner
the part we should play alike in the arrangement of our domestic affairs and in our exercise
of influence upon the affairs of the world.

By this faith, and by this faith alone, can the world be lifted out of its present confusion
and despair. It was this faith which prevailed over the wicked force of Germany. You will remember
that the beginning of the end of the war came when the German people found themselves face
to face with the conscience of the world and realized that right was everywhere arrayed against
the wrong that their government was attempting to perpetrate. I think, therefore, that it is
true to say that this was the faith which won the war. Certainly this is the faith with which
our gallant men went into the field and out upon the seas to make sure of victory.

This is the mission upon which Democracy came into the world. Democracy is an assertion of
the right of the individual to live and to be treated justly as against any attempt on the
part of any combination of individuals to make laws which will overburden him or which will
destroy his equality among his fellows in the matter of right or privilege; and I think we
all realize that the day has come when Democracy is being put upon its final test. The Old
World is just now suffering from a wanton rejection of the principle of democracy and a substitution
of the principle of autocracy as asserted in the name, but without the authority and sanction,
of the multitude. This is the time of all others when Democracy should prove its purity and
its spiritual power to prevail. It is surely the manifest destiny of the United States to lead
in the attempt to make this spirit prevail.

There are two ways in which the United States can assist to accomplish this great object. First,
by offering the example within her own borders of the will and power of Democracy to make and
enforce laws which are unquestionably just and which are equal in their administration-laws
which secure its full right to Labor and yet at the same time safeguard the integrity of property,
and particularly of that property which is devoted to the development of industry and the increase
of the necessary wealth of the world. Second, by standing for right and justice as toward individual
nations. The law of Democracy is for the protection of the weak, and the influence of every
democracy in the world should be for the protection of the weak nation, the nation which is
struggling toward its right and toward its proper recognition and privilege in the family of
nations.

The United States cannot refuse this role of champion without putting the stigma of rejection
upon the great and devoted men who brought its government into existence and established it
in the face of almost universal opposition and intrigue, even in the face of wanton force,
as, for example, against the Orders in Council of Great Britain and the arbitrary Napoleonic
decrees which involved us in what we know as the War of 1812.

I urge you to consider that the display of an immediate disposition on the part of the Congress
to remedy any injustices or evils that may have shown themselves in our own national life will
afford the most effectual offset to the forces of chaos and tyranny which are playing so disastrous
a part in the fortunes of the free peoples of more than one part of the world. The United States
is of necessity the sample democracy of the world, and the triumph of Democracy depends upon
its success.

Recovery from the disturbing and sometimes disastrous effects of the late war has been exceedingly
slow on the other side of the water, and has given promise, I venture-to say, of early completion
only in our own fortunate country; but even with us the recovery halts and is impeded at times,
and there are immediately serviceable acts of legislation which it seems to me we ought to
attempt, to assist that recovery and prove the indestructible recuperative force of a great
government of the people. One of these is to prove that a great democracy can keep house as
successfully and in as business-like a fashion as any other government. It seems to me that
the first step toward providing this is to supply ourselves with a systematic method of handling
our estimates and expenditures and bringing them to the point where they will not be an unnecessary
strain upon our income or necessitate unreasonable taxation; in other words, a workable budget
system. And I respectfully suggest that two elements are essential to such a system-namely,
not only that the proposal of appropriations should be in the hands of a single body, such
as a single appropriations committee in each house of the Congress, but also that this body
should be brought into such cooperation with the Departments of the Government and with the
Treasury of the United States as would enable it to act upon a complete conspectus of the needs
of the Government and the resources from which it must draw its income.

I reluctantly vetoed the budget bill passed by the last session of the Congress because of
a constitutional objection. The House of Representatives subsequently modified the bill in
order to meet this objection. In the revised form, I believe that the bill, coupled with action
already taken by the Congress to revise its rules and procedure, furnishes the foundation for
an effective national budget system. I earnestly hope, therefore, that one of the first steps
to be taken by the present session of the Congress will be to pass the budget bill.

The nation's finances have shown marked improvement during the last year. The total ordinary
receipts of $6,694,000,000 for the fiscal year 1920 exceeded those for 1919 by $1,542,000,000,
while the total net ordinary expenditures decreased from $18,514,000,000 to $6,403,000,000.
The gross public debt, which reached its highest point on August 31, 1919, when it was $26,596,000,000,
had dropped on November 30, 1920, to $24,175,000,000.

There has also been a marked decrease in holdings of government war securities by the banking
institutions of the country, as well as in the amount of bills held by the Federal Reserve
Banks secured by government war obligations. This fortunate result has relieved the banks and
left them freer to finance the needs of Agriculture, Industry, and Commerce. It has been due
in large part to the reduction of the public debt, especially of the floating debt, but more
particularly to the improved distribution of government securities among permanent investors.
The cessation of the Government's borrowings, except through short-term certificates of indebtedness,
has been a matter of great consequence to the people of the country at large, as well as to
the holders of Liberty Bonds and Victory Notes, and has had an important bearing on the matter
of effective credit control.

The year has been characterized by the progressive withdrawal of the Treasury from the domestic
credit market and from a position of dominant influence in that market. The future course will
necessarily depend upon the extent to which economies are practiced and upon the burdens placed
upon the Treasury, as well as upon industrial developments and the maintenance of tax receipts
at a sufficiently high level. The fundamental fact which at present dominates the Government's
financial situation is that seven and a half billions of its war indebtedness mature within
the next two and a half years. Of this amount, two and a half billions are floating debt and
five billions, Victory Notes and War. Savings Certificates. The fiscal program of the Government
must be determined with reference to these maturities. Sound policy demands that Government
expenditures be reduced to the lowest amount which will permit the various services to operate
efficiently and that Government receipts from taxes and salvage be maintained sufficiently
high to provide for current requirements, including interest and sinking fund charges on the
public debt, and at the same time retire the floating debt and part of the Victory Loan before
maturity.

With rigid economy, vigorous salvage operations, and adequate revenues from taxation, a surplus
of current receipts over current expenditures can be realized and should be applied to the
floating debt. All branches of the Government should cooperate to see that this program is
realized. I cannot overemphasize the necessity of economy in Government appropriations and
expenditures and the avoidance by the Congress of practices which take money from the Treasury
by indefinite or revolving fund appropriations. The estimates for the present year show that
over a billion dollars of expenditures were authorized by the last Congress in addition to
the amounts shown in the usual compiled statements of appropriations. This strikingly illustrates
the importance of making direct and specific appropriations. But this is a selected case, and such
regular examples of the expected periodicity are rarely found. Often one or more of the various
steps are lacking, or even leaves with smaller numbers may be interspersed among those with larger
numbers of leaflets. But while the regularity of the periodicity is in some degree diminished by such
occurrences, yet the rule always holds good, when taken broadly. It may be expressed by stating that the
bases and apices have on the average fewer leaflets on each leaf than the middle parts of the
stem and branches, and that the number of leaflets gradually increases from the base toward
a maximum, which is reached in organs on the middle or upper part of the axis, and then diminishes
from this toward the apex.

This periodicity is not limited to the stems and branches, considered singly, but also holds
good in a comparison made between the branches of a single stem, in regard to their relative
places on that stem. So it is also for the whole plant. The first stems, produced by the subterranean
axis, ordinarily show only a low maximum deviation: the next succeeding
being [364] more divergent and the last ones returning to less differentiated
forms.

It is evident that on a given stem the group of deviating leaves will be extended upward and
downward, with the increase of the number of these organs. This shows that a stem, or even
a plant, promises a higher degree of differentiation if it commences with its aberration earlier.
Hence it becomes possible to discern the most promising individuals in early youth, and this
conclusion leads to a very easy and reliable method of selection, which may be expressed simply
as follows: the seedlings which commence earliest with the production of four- and five-foliolate
leaves are the best and should be selected for the continuance of the race. And it is easily seen
that this rule agrees with that given above, and which was followed in my pedigree-culture.

Furthermore it is seen that there is a complete agreement between the law of periodicity and the
responses of the deviations to nourishment and other conditions of
life.

Weak plants only produce low degrees of deviation, the stronger the individual becomes, the
higher it reaches in the scale of differentiation, and the more often it develops leaves with
five or more blades. Whether weakness or strength are derived from outer causes, or from the internal
[365] succession of the periods of life, is evidently of no consequence, and in this way the law
of periodicity may be regarded as a special instance of the more general law of response to
external conditions.

The validity of this law of periodicity is of course not limited to our "five-leaved" clover. Quite
on the contrary it is universal in eversporting varieties. Moreover it may be ascertained and
studied in connection with the most widely different morphologic abnormalities, and therefore
affords easily accessible material for statistical inquiry. I will now give some further instances,
but wish to insist first upon the necessity of an inquiry on a far larger scale, as the evidence
as yet is very scanty.

The great celandine (Chelidonium majus) has a very curious double variety. Its flowers are
simpler and much more variable than in ordinary garden-varieties. The process of doubling consists
mainly in a change of stamens into petals. This change is dependent on the season. On each stem
the earliest flowers are single. These are succeeded by blossoms with one or two converted stamens,
and towards the summer this number increases gradually, attaining 10-11 and in some instances
even more altered filaments.

Each year the same succession may be seen repeating itself on the stems of [366] the old roots.
Double tuberous begonias are ordinarily absolutely sterile throughout the summer, but towards
autumn the new flowers become less and less altered, producing some normal stamens and pistils
among the majority of metamorphosed organs. From these flowers the seeds are saved. Sometimes
similar flowers occur at the beginning of the flowering-period. Double garden-camomiles (Chrysanthemum
inodorum plenissimum) and many other double varieties of garden-plants among the great family
of the composites are very sensitive to external agencies, and their flower-heads are fuller
the more favorable the external conditions.

Towards the autumn many of them produce fewer and fewer converted heads and often only these
are fertile and yield seeds.

Ascidia afford another instance of this periodicity, though ordinarily they are by far too rare
to show any regularity in their distribution. However, it is easy to observe that on lime-trees
they prefer the lower parts of each twig, while on magnolias the
terminal leaves of the branches are often pitcher-bearing.

Ascidia of the white clover have been found in numbers, in my own experiment-garden, but always
in the springtime. The thickleaved saxifrage (Saxifraga crassifolia) is often very productive
of ascidia, especially in [367] the latter part of the season, and as these organs may be developed
to very different degrees, they afford fine material for the study of the law of periodicity.
On a garden-cytisus (Cytisus candicans attleyanus) I once had the
good fortune to observe a branch with ascidia, which ordinarily are
very rare in this species.

It had produced seven ascidia in all, each formed by the conversion
of one leaflet on the trifoliolate leaves.

The first six leaves were destitute of this malformation and were
quite normal.

Then followed a group of five leaves, constituting the maximum of
the period.

The first bore one small pitcher-like blade, the second and third, each one highly modified organ,
the fourth, two ascidia, and the last, one leaflet with slightly connate margins. The whole
upper part of the branch was normal, with the exception of the seventeenth leaf, which showed a slight
change in the same direction.

All in all, the tendency to produce ascidia increased from the beginning to the tenth leaf, and decreased
from this upward.

The European Venus' looking-glass was observed in my garden to produce some quaternate and some
quinate flowers on the same specimens. The quinate were placed at the end of the branches,
those with four petals and sepals lower down. The peloric fox-glove shows the [368] highest
degree of metamorphy in the terminal flowers of the stem itself, the weaker branches having but little
tendency towards the formation of the anomaly. The European pine or Pinus sylvestris ordinarily
has two needles in each sheath, but trifoliolate sheaths occur on the stems and stronger branches,
where they prefer, as a rule, the upper parts of the single annual shoots. Camellia japonica
is often striped in the fall and during the winter, but when flowering
in the spring it returns to the monochromatic type.

Peloric flowers are terminal in some cases, but occur in the lower parts of the flower-spikes in
others. Some varieties of gladiolus commence on each spike with more or less double flowers, which,
higher up, are replaced by single ones. A wide range of bulbs and perennial garden-plants develop
their varietal characters only partly when grown from seed and flowering for the first time.
The annual garden-forget-me-not of the Azores (Myosotis azorica)
has a variety with curiously enlarged flowers, often producing 20
or more corolla-segments in one flower.

But this number gradually diminishes as the season advances. It would be quite superfluous to give
further proof of the general validity of the law of periodicity in ever-sporting varieties.

[369]

LECTURE XIII

PISTILLODY IN POPPIES

One of the most curious anomalies that may be met with in ornamental garden-plants is the conversion of
stamens into pistils. It is neither common nor rare, but in most cases the change is so slight
comparatively that it is ordinarily overlooked.

In the opium-poppy, on the contrary, it is very showy, and heightens the ornamental effect
of the young fruits after the fading of the flowers. Here the central capsule is surrounded
by a large crown of metamorphosed stamens.

This peculiarity has attracted the attention both of horticulturists and of botanists. As a rule
not all the stamens are changed in this way but only those of the innermost rows. The outer stamens
remain normal and fertile, and the flowers, when pollinated with their own pollen, bear as rich a harvest
of seeds as other opium-poppies. The change affects both the filament and the anther, the former
of which is dilated into a sheath. Within this sheath perfect [370] and more or less numerous ovules
may be produced. The anthers become rudimentary and in their place broad leafy flaps are developed,
which protrude laterally from the tip and constitute the stigmas. Ordinarily these altered organs
are sterile, but in some instances a very small quantity of seed
is produced, and when testing their viability I succeeded in raising
a few plants from them.

The same anomaly occurs in other plants. The common wall-flower (Cheiranthus Cheiri) and the houseleek
(Sempervivum tectorum) are the best known instances.

Both have repeatedly been described by various investigators. In compiling the literature of
this subject it is very interesting to observe the two contrasting views respecting the nature
of this anomaly. Some writers, and among them Masters in his "Vegetable Teratology" consider
the deviations to be merely accidental. According to them some species are more subject to this anomaly
than others, and the houseleek is said to be very prone to this change. Goeppert, Hofmeister
and others occasionally found the pistilloid poppies in fields or
gardens, and sowed their seeds in order to ascertain whether the accidental
peculiarity was inheritable or not.

On the other hand De Candolle in his "Prodromus" mentions the pistilloid wall-flowers as a distinct
[371] variety, under the name of Cheiranthus Cheiri gynantherus, and the analogous form of the opium-poppy
is not at all an accidental anomaly, but an old true horticultural variety, which can be bought
everywhere under the names of Papaver somniferum monstruosum or polycephalum. Since it is an annual
plant, only the seeds are for sale, and this at once gives a sufficient
proof of its heredity.

In all cases, where it was met with accidentally by botanists, it is to be assumed that stray
seeds had been casually mixed with those of other varieties, or that the habit had been transmitted
by a spontaneous cross.

Wherever opportunity led to experiments on heredity, distinct races were found to be in possession
of this quality, while others were not. It is of no use to cultivate large numbers of wall-flowers
in the hope of one day seeing the anomaly arise; the only means is to secure the strain from those who
have got it. With poppies the various varieties are so often intercrossed by bees, that the
appearance of an accidental change may sometimes be produced, and in the houseleek the pistilloid
warily seems to be the ordinary one, the normal strain being very rare or perhaps wholly wanting.

Our
three illustrative examples are good and permanent races, producing their peculiar qualities [372]
regularly and abundantly. In this respect they are however very variable and dependent on external
circumstances. Such a regularity is not met with in other instances. Often pedigree-experiments lead
to poor races, betraying their tendency to deviate only from time
to time and in rare cases.

Such instances constitute what we have called in a former lecture, "half races," and their
occurrence indicates that the casual observation of an anomaly is not in itself adequate to
give an opinion as to the chance of repetition in sowing experiments. A large number of species
seem to belong to this case, and their names may be found in the above mentioned work by Masters and
elsewhere.

But no effort has yet been made to separate thoroughly the pistilloid half-races from the corresponding
ever-sporting varieties. Some plants are recorded as being more liable to this peculiarity than
others.

Stamens are sometimes replaced by open carpels with naked ovules arising from their edges and
even from their whole inner surfaces. This may be seen in distinct strains of the cultivated bulbous
Begonia, and more rarely in primroses.

The pistillody of the stamens is frequently [373] combined with another deviation in the poppies.
This is the growing together of some of the altered stamens so as
to constitute smaller or larger connate groups.

Often two are united, sometimes three, four or more. Flowers with numerous altered stamens are
seldom wholly free from this most undesirable secondary anomaly. I call it undesirable with respect
to experiments on the variability of the character. For it may easily be seen that while it
is feasible to count the stamens even when converted into pistils, it is not possible when groups
of them are more or less intimately united into single bodies. This combination makes all
enumeration difficult and inaccurate and often wholly unreliable. In such cases the observation is
limited to a computation of the degree of the change, rather than to a strict numerical inquiry.
Happily the responses to the experimental influences are so marked and distinct that even this
method of describing them has proved to be wholly sufficient.

In extreme instances I have seen all the changed stamens of a flower of the opium-poppy united
into a single body, so as to form a close sheath all around the central ovary. Lesser sheaths,
surrounding one-half or one-third of the capsule are of course less rarely met with. Leaving
this description of the outer appearance [374] of our anomaly, we may now consider it from the
double point of view of inheritance and variability.

The fact of inheritance is shown by the experience of many authors,
and by the circumstance already quoted, that the variety has been
propagated from seed for more than half a century, and may be obtained
from various seed merchants.

In respect to the variability, the variety belongs to the ever-sporting group, constituting a
type which is more closely related to the "five-leaved" clover than to the striped flowers or
even the double stocks.

It fluctuates around an average type with half filled crowns, going as far as possible in both
directions, but never transgressing either limit. It is even doubtful whether the presumable limits
are, under ordinary circumstances, ever reached. Obviously one extreme would be the conversion
of all the stamens, and the other the absolute deficiency of any
marked tendency to such a change. Both may occur, and will probably
be met with from time to time. But they must be extremely rare, since
in my own extensive experiments, which were strictly controlled, I
never was able to find a single instance of either of them. Some of
the outer stamens have always remained unchanged, yielding enough
pollen for the artificial pollination of [375] the central ovary,
and on the other hand some rudiments of hardened filaments were always
left, even if they were reduced to small protuberances on the thalamus
of the flower. Between these extremes all grades occur. From single,
partially or wholly changed stamens upwards to 150 and over, all steps
may be seen. It is a true fluctuating variability. There is an average
of between 50 and 100, constituting a nearly filled crown around the
central capsule. Around this average the smaller deviations are most
numerous and the larger ones more rare. The inspection of any bed
of the variety suffices to show that, taken broadly, the ordinary
laws of fluctuating variability are applicable. No counting of the
single individuals is required to dispel all doubts on this point.

Moreover
all intermediate steps respecting the conversion of the single stamens
may nearly always be seen. Rarely all are changed into normal secondary
ovaries with a stigma and with a cavity filled with ovules. It is enough to say to-day that we are so possessed of ships,
and the American intention to establish it merchant marine is so unalterable, that a plain
of reimbursement, at no other cost than is contemplated in the existing act, will appeal to
the pride and encourage the hope of all the American people.

There is before you the completion of the enactment of what has been termed a "permanent" tariff
law, the word "permanent" being used to distinguish it from the emergency act which the Congress
expedited early in the extraordinary session, and which is the law today. I can not too strongly
urge in early completion of this necessary legislation It is needed to stabilize our industry
at home; it is essential to make more definite our trade relations abroad. More, it is vital
to the preservation of many of our own industries which contribute so notably to the very lifeblood
of our Nation.

There is now, and there always will be, a storm of conflicting opinion about any tariff revision.
We can not go far wrong when we base our tariffs on the policy of preserving the productive
activities which enhance employment and add to our national prosperity.

Again comes the reminder that we must not be unmindful of world conditions, that peoples are
struggling for industrial rehabilitation and that we can not dwell in industrial and commercial
exclusion and at the same time do the just thing in aiding world reconstruction and readjustment.
We do not seek a selfish aloofness, and we could not profit by it, were it possible. We recognize
the necessity of buying wherever we sell, and the permanency of trade lies in its acceptable
exchanges. In our pursuit of markets we must give as well as receive. We can not sell to others
who do not produce, nor can we buy unless we produce at home. Sensible of every obligation
of humanity, commerce and finance, linked as they are in the present world condition, it is
not to be argued that we need destroy ourselves to be helpful to others. With all my heart
I wish restoration to the peoples blighted by the awful World War, but the process of restoration
does not lie in our acceptance of like conditions. It were better to, remain on firm ground,
strive for ample employment and high standards of wage at home, and point the way to balanced
budgets, rigid economies, and resolute, efficient work as the necessary remedies to cure disaster.

Everything relating to trade, among ourselves and among nations, has been expanded, excessive,
inflated, abnormal, and there is a madness in finance which no American policy alone will cure.
We are a creditor Nation, not by normal processes, but made so by war. It is not an unworthy
selfishness to seek to save ourselves, when the processes of that salvation are not only not
denied to others, but commended to them. We seek to undermine for others no industry by which
they subsist; we are obligated to permit the undermining of none of our own which make for
employment and maintained activities.

Every contemplation, it little matters in which direction one turns, magnifies the difficulty
of tariff legislation, but the necessity of the revision is magnified with it. Doubtless we
are justified in seeking it. More flexible policy than we have provided heretofore. I hope
a way will be found to make for flexibility and elasticity, so that rates may be adjusted to
meet unusual and changing conditions which can not be accurately anticipated. There are problems
incident to unfair practices, and to exchanges which madness in money have made almost unsolvable.
I know of no manner in which to effect this flexibility other than the extension of the powers
of the Tariff Commission so that it can adapt itself to it scientific and wholly just administration
of the law.

I am not unmindful of the constitutional difficulties. These can be met by giving authority
to the Chief Executive, who could proclaim-additional duties to meet conditions which the Congress
may designate.

At this point I must disavow any desire to enlarge the Executive's powers or add to the responsibilities
of the office. They are already too large. If there were any other plan I would prefer it.

The grant of authority to proclaim would necessarily bring the Tariff Commission into new and
enlarged activities, because no Executive could discharge such a duty except upon the information
acquired and recommendations made by this commission. But the plan is feasible, and the proper
functioning of the board would give its it better administration of a defined policy than ever
can be made possible by tariff duties prescribed without flexibility.

There is a manifest difference of opinion about the merits of American valuation. Many nations
have adopted delivery valuation as the basis for collecting duties; that is, they take the
cost of the imports delivered at the port of entry as the basis for levying duty. It is no
radical departure, in view of varying conditions and the disordered state of money values,
to provide for American valuation, but there can not be ignored the danger of such a valuation,
brought to the level of our own production costs, making our tariffs prohibitive. It might
do so in many instances where imports ought to be encouraged. I believe Congress ought well
consider the desirability of the only promising alternative, namely, a provision authorizing
proclaimed American valuation, under prescribed conditions, on any given list of articles imported.

In this proposed flexibility, authorizing increases to meet conditions so likely to change,
there should also be provision for decreases. A rate may be just to-day, and entirely out of
proportion six months from to-day. If our tariffs are to be made equitable, and not necessarily
burden our imports and hinder our trade abroad, frequent adjustment will be necessary for years
to come. Knowing the impossibility of modification by act of Congress for any one or a score
of lines without involving a long array of schedules, I think we shall go a long ways toward
stabilization, if there is recognition of the Tariff Commission's fitness to recommend urgent
changes by proclamation.

I am sure about public opinion favoring the early determination of our tariff policy. There
have been reassuring signs of a business revival from the deep slump which all the world has
been experiencing. Our unemployment, which gave its deep concern only a few weeks ago, has
grown encouragingly less, and new assurances and renewed confidence will attend the congressional
declaration that American industry will be held secure.

Much has been said about the protective policy for ourselves making it impossible for our debtors
to discharge their obligations to us. This is a contention not now pressing for decision. If
we must choose between a people in idleness pressing for the payment of indebtedness, or a
people resuming the normal ways of employment and carrying the credit, let us choose the latter.
Sometimes we appraise largest the human ill most vivid in our minds. We have been giving, and
are giving now, of our influence and appeals to minimize the likelihood of war and throw off
the crushing burdens of armament. It is all very earnest, with a national soul impelling. But
a people unemployed, and gaunt with hunger, face a situation quite as disheartening as war,
and our greater obligation to-day is to do the Government's part toward resuming productivity
and promoting fortunate and remunerative employment.

Something more than tariff protection is required by American agriculture. To the farmer has
come the earlier and the heavier burdens of readjustment. There is actual depression in our
agricultural industry, while agricultural prosperity is absolutely essential to the general
prosperity of the country.

Congress has sought very earnestly to provide relief. It has promptly given such temporary
relief as has been possible, but the call is insistent for the permanent solution. It is inevitable
that large crops lower the prices and short crops advance them. No legislation can cure that
fundamental law. But there must be some economic solution for the excessive variation in returns
for agricultural production.

It is rather shocking to be told, and to have the statement strongly supported, that 9,000,000
bales of cotton, raised on American plantations in a given year, will actually be worth more
to the producers than 13,000,000 bales would have been. Equally shocking is the statement that
700,000,000 bushels of wheat, raised by American farmers, would bring them more money than
a billion bushels. Yet these are not exaggerated statements. In a world where there are tens
of millions who need food and clothing which they can not get, such a condition is sure to
indict the social system which makes it possible.

In the main the remedy lies in distribution and marketing. Every proper encouragement should
be given to the cooperative marketing programs. These have proven very helpful to the cooperating
communities in Europe. In Russia the cooperative community has become the recognized bulwark
of law and order, and saved individualism from engulfment in social paralysis. Ultimately they
will be accredited with the salvation of the Russian State.

There is the appeal for this experiment. Why not try it? No one challenges the right of the
farmer to a larger share of the consumer's pay for his product, no one disputes that we can
not live without the farmer. He is justified in rebelling against the transportation cost.
Given a fair return for his labor, he will have less occasion to appeal for financial aid;
and given assurance that his labors shall not be in vain, we reassure all the people of a production
sufficient to meet our National requirement and guard against disaster.

The base of the pyramid of civilization which rests upon the soil is shrinking through the
drift of population from farm to city. For a generation we have been expressing more or less
concern about this tendency. Economists have warned and statesmen have deplored. We thought
for at time that modern conveniences and the more intimate contact would halt the movement,
but it has gone steadily on. Perhaps only grim necessity will correct it, but we ought to find
a less drastic remedy.

The existing scheme of adjusting freight rates hits been favoring the basing points, until
industries are attracted to some centers and repelled from others. A great volume of uneconomic
and wasteful transportation has attended, and the cost increased accordingly. The grain-milling
and meat-packing industries afford ample illustration, and the attending concentration is readily
apparent. The menaces in concentration are not limited to the retardingly influences on agriculture.
Manifestly the. conditions and terms of railway transportation ought not be permitted to increase
this undesirable tendency. We have a just pride in our great cities, but we shall find a greater
pride in the Nation, which has it larger distribution of its population into the country, where
comparatively self-sufficient smaller communities may blend agricultural and manufacturing
interests in harmonious helpfulness and enhanced good fortune. Such a movement contemplates
no destruction of things wrought, of investments made, or wealth involved. It only looks to
a general policy of transportation of distributed industry, and of highway construction, to
encourage the spread of our population and restore the proper balance between city and country.
The problem may well have your earnest attention.

It has been perhaps the proudest claim of our American civilization that in dealing with human
relationships it has constantly moved toward such justice in distributing the product of human
energy that it has improved continuously the economic status of the mass of people. Ours has
been a highly productive social organization. On the way up from the elemental stages of society
we have eliminated slavery and serfdom and are now far on the way to the elimination of poverty.

Through the eradication of illiteracy and the diffusion of education mankind has reached a
stage where we may fairly say that in the United States equality of opportunity has been attained,
though all are not prepared to embrace it. There is, indeed, a too great divergence between
the economic conditions of the most and the least favored classes in the community. But even
that divergence has now come to the point where we bracket the very poor and the very rich
together as the least fortunate classes. Our efforts may well be directed to improving the
status of both.

While this set of problems is commonly comprehended under the general phrase "Capital and labor,"
it is really vastly broader. It is a question of social and economic organization. Labor has
become a large contributor, through its savings, to the stock of capital; while the people
who own the largest individual aggregates of capital are themselves often hard and earnest
laborers. Very often it is extremely difficult to draw the line of demarcation between the
two groups; to determine whether a particular individual is entitled to be set down as laborer
or as capitalist. In a very large proportion of cases he is both, and when he is both he is
the most useful citizen.

The right of labor to organize is just as fundamental and necessary as is the right of capital
to organize. The right of labor to negotiate, to deal with and solve its particular problems
in an organized way, through its chosen agents, is just as essential as is the right of capital
to organize, to maintain corporations, to limit the liabilities of stockholders. Indeed, we
have come to recognize that the limited liability of the citizen as a member of a labor organization
closely parallels the limitation of liability of the citizen as a stockholder in a corporation
for profit. Along this line of reasoning we shall make the greatest progress toward solution
of our problem of capital and labor.

In the case of the corporation which enjoys the privilege of limited liability of stockholders,
particularly when engaged in in the public service, it is recognized that the outside public
has a large concern which must be protected; and so we provide regulations, restrictions, and
in some cases detailed supervision. Likewise in the case of labor organizations, we might well
apply similar and equally well-defined principles of regulation and supervision in order to
conserve the public's interests as affected by their operations.

Just as it is not desirable that a corporation shall be allowed to impose undue exactions upon
the public, so it is not desirable that a labor organization shall be permitted to exact unfair
terms of employment or subject the public to actual distresses in order to enforce its terms.
Finally, just as we are earnestly seeking for procedures whereby to adjust and settle political
differences between nations without resort to war, so we may well look about for means to settle
the differences between organized capital and organized labor without resort to those forms
of warfare which we recognize under the name of strikes, lockouts, boycotts, and the like.

As we have great bodies of law carefully regulating the organization and operations of industrial
and financial corporations, as we have treaties and compacts among nations which look to the
settlement of differences without the necessity of conflict in arms, so we might well have
plans of conference, of common counsel, of mediation, arbitration, and judicial determination
in controversies between labor and capital. To accomplish this would involve the necessity
to develop a thoroughgoing code of practice in dealing with such affairs It might be well to
frankly set forth the superior interest of the community as a whole to either the labor group
or the capital group. With rights, privileges, immunities, and modes of organization thus carefully
defined, it should be possible to set up judicial or quasi judicial tribunals for the consideration
and determination of all disputes which menace the public welfare.

In an industrial society such as ours the strike, the lockout, and the boycott are as much
out of place and as disastrous in their results as is war or armed revolution in the domain
of politics. The same disposition to reasonableness, to conciliation, to recognition of the
other side's point of view, the same provision of fair and recognized tribunals and processes,
ought to make it possible to solve the one set of questions its easily as the other. I believe
the solution is possible.

The consideration of such a policy would necessitate the exercise of care and deliberation
in the construction of a code and a charter of elemental rights, dealing with the relations
of employer and employee. This foundation in the law, dealing with the modern conditions of
social and economic life, would hasten the building of the temple of peace in industry which
a rejoicing nation would acclaim.

After each war, until the last, the Government has been enabled to give homes to its returned
soldiers, and a large part of our settlement and development has attended this generous provision
of land for the Nation's defenders.

There is yet unreserved approximately 200,000,000 acres in the public domain, 20,000,000 acres
of which are known to be susceptible of reclamation and made fit for homes by provision for
irrigation.

The Government has been assisting in the development of its remaining lands, until the estimated
increase in land values in the irrigated sections is full $500,000,000 and the crops of 1920
alone on these lands are estimated to exceed $100,000,000. Under the law authorization these
expenditures for development the advances are to be returned and it would be good business
for the Government to provide for the reclamation of the remaining 20,000,000 acres, in addition
to expediting the completion of projects long under way.

Under what is known as the coal and gas lease law, applicable also to deposits of phosphates
and other minerals on the public domain, leases are now being made on the royalty basis, and
are producing large revenues to the Government. Under this legislation, 10 per centum of all
royalties is to be paid directly to the Federal Treasury, and of the remainder 50 per centum
is to be used for reclamation of arid lands by irrigation, and 40 per centum is to be paid
to the States, in which the operations are located, to be used by them for school and road
purposes.

These resources are so vast, and the development is affording so reliable a basis of estimate,
that the Interior Department expresses the belief that ultimately the present law will add
in royalties and payments to the treasuries of the Federal Government and the States containing
these public lands a total of $12,000,000,000. This means, of course, an added wealth of many
times that sum. These prospects seem to afford every justification of Government advances in
reclamation and irrigation.

Contemplating the inevitable and desirable increase of population, there is another phase of
reclamation full worthy of consideration. There are 79,000,000 acres of swamp and cut-over
lands which may be reclaimed and made as valuable as any farm lands we possess. These acres
are largely located in Southern States, and the greater proportion is owned by the States or
by private citizens. Congress has a report of the survey of this field for reclamation, and
the feasibility is established. I gladly commend Federal aid, by way of advances, where State
and private participation is assured.

Home making is one of the greater benefits which government can bestow. Measures are pending
embodying this sound policy to which we may well adhere. It is easily possible to make available
permanent homes which will provide, in turn, for prosperous American families, without injurious
competition with established activities, or imposition on wealth already acquired.

While we are thinking of promoting the fortunes of our own people I am sure there is room in
the sympathetic thought of America for fellow human beings who are suffering and dying of starvation
in Russia. A severe drought in the Valley of the Volga has plunged 15,000,000 people into grievous
famine. Our voluntary agencies are exerting themselves to the utmost to save the lives of children
in this area, but it is now evident that unless relief is afforded the loss of life will extend
into many millions. America can not be deaf to such a call as that.

We do not recognize the government of Russia, nor tolerate the propaganda which emanates therefrom,
but we do not forget the traditions of Russian friendship. We may put aside our consideration
of all international politics and fundamental differences in government. The big thing is the
call of the suffering and the dying. Unreservedly I recommend the appropriation necessary to
supply the American Relief Administration with 10,000,000 bushels of corn and 1,000,000 bushels
of seed grains, not alone to halt the wave of death through starvation, but to enable spring
planting in areas where the seed grains have been exhausted temporarily to stem starvation.

The American Relief Administration is directed in Russia by former officers of our own armies,
and has fully demonstrated its ability to transport and distribute relief through American
hands without hindrance or loss. The time has come to add the Government's support to the wonderful
relief already wrought out of the generosity of the American private purse.

I am not unaware that we have suffering and privation at home. When it exceeds the capacity
for the relief within the States concerned, it will have Federal consideration. It seems to
me we should be indifferent to our own heart promptings, and out of accord with the spirit
which acclaims the Christmastide, if we do not give out of our national abundance to lighten
this burden of woe upon a people blameless and helpless in famine's peril.

There are it full score of topics concerning which it would be becoming to address you, and
on which I hope to make report at a later time. I have alluded to the things requiring your
earlier attention. However, I can not end this limited address without a suggested amendment
to the organic law.

Many of us belong to that school of thought which is hesitant about altering the fundamental
law. I think our tax problems, the tendency of wealth to seek nontaxable investment, and the
menacing increase of public debt, Federal, State and municipal-all justify a proposal to change
the Constitution so as to end the issue of nontaxable bonds. No action can change the status
of the many billions outstanding, but we can guard against future encouragement of capital's
paralysis, while a halt in the growth of public indebtedness would be beneficial throughout
our whole land.

Such a change in the Constitution must be very thoroughly considered before submission. There
ought to be known what influence it will have on the inevitable refunding of our vast national
debt, how it will operate on the necessary refunding of State and municipal debt, how the advantages
of Nation over State and municipality, or the contrary, may be avoided. Clearly the States
would not ratify to their own apparent disadvantage. I suggest the consideration because the
drift of wealth into nontaxable securities is hindering the flow of large capital to our industries,
manufacturing, agricultural, and carrying, until we are discouraging the very activities which
make our wealth.

Agreeable to your expressed desire and in complete accord with the purposes of the executive
branch of the Government, there is in Washington, as you happily know, an International Conference
now most earnestly at work on plans for the limitation of armament, a naval holiday, and the
just settlement of problems which might develop into causes of international disagreement.

It is easy to believe a world-hope is centered on this Capital City. A most gratifying world-accomplishment
is not improbable.

***

State of the Union Address Warren Harding December 8, 1922

MEMBERS OF THE CONGRESS:

So many problems are calling for solution that a recital of all of them, in the face of the
known limitations of a short session of Congress, would seem to lack sincerity of purpose.
It is four years since the World War ended, but the inevitable readjustment of the social and
economic order is not more than barely begun. There is no acceptance of pre-war conditions
anywhere in the world. In a very general way humanity harbors individual wishes to go on with
war-time compensation for production, with pre-war requirements in expenditure. In short, everyone,
speaking broadly, craves readjustment for everybody except himself, while there can be no just
and permanent readjustment except when all participate.

The civilization which measured its strength of genius and the power of science and the resources
of industries, in addition to testing the limits of man power and the endurance and heroism
of men and women--that same civilization is brought to its severest test in restoring a tranquil
order and committing humanity to the stable ways of peace.

If the sober and deliberate appraisal of pre-war civilization makes it seem a worth-while inheritance,
then with patience and good courage it will be preserved. There never again will be precisely
the old order; indeed, I know of no one who thinks it to be desirable For out of the old order
came the war itself, and the new order, established and made secure, never will permit its
recurrence.

It is no figure of speech to say we have come to the test of Our civilization. The world has
been passing--is today passing through of a great crisis. The conduct of war itself is not
more difficult than the solution of the problems which necessarily follow. I am not speaking
at this moment of the problem in its wider aspect of world rehabilitation or of international
relationships. The reference is to our own social, financial, and economic problems at home.
These things are not to be considered solely as problems apart from all international relationship,
but every nation must be able to carry on for itself, else its international relationship will
have scant importance.

Doubtless our own people have emerged from the World War tumult less impaired than most belligerent
powers; probably we have made larger progress toward reconstruction. Surely we have been fortunate
in diminishing unemployment, and our industrial and business activities, which are the lifeblood
of our material existence, have been restored as in no other reconstruction period of like
length in the history of the world. Had we escaped the coal and railway strikes, which had
no excuse for their beginning and less justification for their delayed settlement, we should
have done infinitely better. But labor was insistent on holding to the war heights, and heedless
forces of reaction sought the pre-war levels, and both were wrong. In the folly of conflict
our progress was hindered, and the heavy cost has not yet been fully estimated. There can be
neither adjustment nor the penalty of the failure to readjust in which all do not somehow participate.

The railway strike accentuated the difficulty of the American farmer. The first distress of
readjustment came to the farmer, and it will not be a readjustment fit to abide until he is
relieved. The distress brought to the farmer does not affect him alone. Agricultural ill fortune
is a national ill fortune. That one-fourth of our population which produces the food of the
Republic and adds so largely to our export commerce must participate in the good fortunes of
the Nation, else there is none worth retaining.

Agriculture is a vital activity in our national life. In it we had our beginning, and its westward
march with the star of the empire has reflected the growth of the Republic. It has its vicissitudes
which no legislation will prevent, its hardships for which no law can provide escape. But the
Congress can make available to the farmer the financial facilities which have been built up
under Government aid and supervision for other commercial and industrial enterprises. It may
be done on the same solid fundamentals and make the vitally important agricultural industry
more secure, and it must be done.

This Congress already has taken cognizance of the misfortune which precipitate deflation brought
to American agriculture. Your measures of relief and the reduction of the Federal reserve discount
rate undoubtedly saved the country from widespread disaster. The very proof of helpfulness
already given is the strongest argument for the permanent establishment of widened credits,
heretofore temporarily extended through the War Finance Corporation.

The Farm Loan Bureau, which already has proven its usefulness through the Federal land banks,
may well have its powers enlarged to provide ample farm production credits as well as enlarged
land credits. It is entirely practical to create a division in the Federal land banks to deal
with production credits, with the limitations of time so adjusted to the farm turnover as the
Federal reserve system provides for the turnover in the manufacturing and mercantile world.
Special provision must be made for live-stock production credits, and the limit of land loans
may be safely enlarged. Various measures are pending before you, and the best judgment of Congress
ought to be expressed in a prompt enactment at the present session.

But American agriculture needs more than added credit facilities. The credits will help to
solve the pressing problems growing out of war-inflated land values and the drastic deflation
of three years ago, but permanent and deserved agricultural good fortune depends on better
and cheaper transportation.

Here is an outstanding problem, demanding the most rigorous consideration of the Congress and
the country. It has to do with more than agriculture. It provides the channel for the flow
of the country's commerce. But the farmer is particularly hard hit. His market, so affected
by the world consumption, does not admit of the price adjustment to meet carrying charges.
In the last half of the year now closing the railways, broken in carrying capacity because
of motive power and rolling stock out of order, though insistently declaring to the contrary,
embargoed his shipments or denied him cars when fortunate markets were calling. Too frequently
transportation failed while perishable products were turning from possible profit to losses
counted in tens of millions.

I know of no problem exceeding in importance this one of transportation. In our complex and
interdependent modern life transportation is essential to our very existence. Let us pass for
the moment the menace in the possible paralysis of such service as we have and note the failure,
for whatever reason, to expand our transportation to meet the Nation's needs.

The census of 1880 recorded a population of 50,000,000. In two decades more we may reasonably
expect to count thrice that number. In the three decades ending in 1920 the country's freight
by rail increased from 631,000,000 tons to 2,234,000,000 tons; that is to say, while our population
was increasing, less than 70 per cent, the freight movement increased over 250 per cent.

We have built 40 per cent of the world's railroad mileage, and yet find it inadequate to our
present requirements. When we contemplate the inadequacy of to-day it is easy to believe that
the next few decades will witness the paralysis of our transportation-using social scheme or
a complete reorganization on some new basis. Mindful of the tremendous costs of betterments,
extensions, and expansions, and mindful of the staggering debts of the world to-day, the difficulty
is magnified. Here is a problem demanding wide vision and the avoidance of mere makeshifts.
No matter what the errors of the past, no matter how we acclaimed construction and then condemned
operations in the past, we have the transportation and the honest investment in the transportation
which sped us on to what we are, and we face conditions which reflect its inadequacy to-day,
its greater inadequacy to-morrow, and we contemplate transportation costs which much of the
traffic can not and will not continue to pay.

Manifestly, we have need to begin on plans to coordinate all transportation facilities. We
should more effectively connect up our rail lines with our carriers by sea. We ought to reap
some benefit from the hundreds of millions expended on inland waterways, proving our capacity
to utilize as well as expend. We ought to turn the motor truck into a railway feeder and distributor
instead of a destroying competitor.

It would be folly to ignore that we live in a motor age. The motor car reflects our standard
of living and gauges the speed of our present-day life. It long ago ran down Simple Living,
and never halted to inquire about the prostrate figure which fell as its victim. With full
recognition of motor-car transportation we must turn it to the most practical use. It can not
supersede the railway lines, no matter how generously we afford it highways out of the Public
Treasury. If freight traffic by motor were charged with its proper and proportionate share
of highway construction, we should find much of it wasteful and more costly than like service
by rail. Yet we have paralleled the railways, a most natural line of construction, and thereby
taken away from the agency of expected service much of its profitable traffic, which the taxpayers
have been providing the highways, whose cost of maintenance is not yet realized.

The Federal Government has a right to inquire into the wisdom of this policy, because the National
Treasury is contributing largely to this highway construction. Costly highways ought to be
made to serve as feeders rather than competitors of the railroads, and the motor truck should
become a coordinate factor in our great distributing system.

This transportation problem can not be waived aside. The demand for lowered costs on farm products
and basic materials can not be ignored. Rates horizontally increased, to meet increased wage
outlays during the war inflation, are not easily reduced. When some very moderate wage reductions
were effected last summer there was a 5 per cent horizontal reduction in rates. I sought at
that time, in a very informal way, to have the railway managers go before the Interstate Commerce
Commission and agree to a heavier reduction on farm products and coal and other basic commodities,
and leave unchanged the freight tariffs which a very large portion of the traffic was able
to bear. Neither the managers nor the commission tile@@ suggestion, so we had the horizontal
reduction saw fit to adopt too slight to be felt by the higher class cargoes and too little
to benefit the heavy tonnage calling most loudly for relief.

Railways are not to be expected to render the most essential service in our social organization
without a air return on capital invested, but the Government has gone so far in the regulation
of rates and rules of operation that it has the responsibility of pointing the way to the reduced
freight costs so essential to our national welfare.

Government operation does not afford the cure. It was Government operation which brought us
to the very order of things against which we now rebel, and we are still liquidating the costs
of that supreme folly.

Surely the genius of the railway builders has not become extinct among the railway managers.
New economies, new efficiencies in cooperation must be found. The fact that labor takes 50
to 60 per cent of total railway earnings makes limitations within which to effect economies
very difficult, but the demand is no less insistent on that account.

Clearly the managers are without that intercarrier, cooperative relationship so highly essential
to the best and most economical operation. They could not function in harmony when the strike
threatened the paralysis of all railway transportation. The relationship of the service to
public welfare, so intimately affected by State and Federal regulation, demands the effective
correlation and a concerted drive to meet an insistent and justified public demand.

The merger of lines into systems, a facilitated interchange of freight cars, the economic use
of terminals, and the consolidation of facilities are suggested ways of economy and efficiency.

I remind you that Congress provided a Joint Commission of Agricultural Inquiry which made an
exhaustive investigation of car service and transportation, and unanimously recommended in
its report of October 15, 1921, the pooling of freight cars under a central agency. This report
well deserves your serious consideration. I think well of the central agency, which shall be
a creation of the railways themselves, to provide, under the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the means for financing equipment for carriers which are otherwise unable
to provide their proportion of car equipment adequate to transportation needs. This same agency
ought to point the way to every possible economy in maintained equipment and the necessary
interchanges in railway commerce.

In a previous address to the Congress I called to your attention the insufficiency of power
to enforce the decisions of the Railroad Labor Board. Carriers have ignored its decisions,
on the one hand, railway workmen have challenged its decisions by a strike, on the other hand.

The intent of Congress to establish a tribunal to which railway labor and managers may appeal
respecting questions of wages and working conditions can not be too strongly commended. It
is vitally important that some such agency should be a guaranty against suspended operation.
The public must be spared even the threat of discontinued service.

Sponsoring the railroads as we do, it is an obligation that labor shall be assured the highest
justice and every proper consideration of wage and working conditions, but it is an equal obligation
to see that no concerted action in forcing demands shall deprive the public of the transportation
service essential to its very existence. It is now impossible to safeguard public interest,
because the decrees of the board are unenforceable against either employer or employee.

The Labor Board itself is not so constituted as best to serve the public interest. With six
partisan members on a board of nine, three partisans nominated by the employees and three by
the railway managers, it is inevitable that the partisan viewpoint is maintained throughout
hearings and in decisions handed down. Indeed, the few exceptions to a strictly partisan expression
in decisions thus far rendered have been followed by accusations of betrayal of the partisan
interests represented. Only the public group of three is free to function in unbiased decisions.
Therefore the partisan membership may well be abolished, and decisions should be made by an
impartial tribunal.

I am well convinced that the functions of this tribunal could be much better carried on here
in Washington. Even were it to be continued as a separate tribunal, there ought to be contact
with the Interstate Commerce Commission, which has supreme authority in the rate making to
which wage cost bears an indissoluble relationship Theoretically, a fair and living wage must
be determined quite apart from the employer's earning capacity, but in practice, in the railway
service, they are inseparable. The record of advanced rates to meet increased wages, both determined
by the Government, is proof enough.

The substitution of a labor division in the Interstate Commerce Commission made up from its
membership, to hear and decide disputes relating to wages and working conditions which have
failed of adjustment by proper committees created by the railways and their employees, offers
a more effective plan.

It need not be surprising that there is dissatisfaction over delayed hearings and decisions
by the present board when every trivial dispute is carried to that tribunal. The law should
require the railroads and their employees to institute means and methods to negotiate between
themselves their constantly arising differences, limiting appeals to the Government tribunal
to disputes of such character as are likely to affect the public welfare.

This suggested substitution will involve a necessary increase in the membership of the commission,
probably four, to constitute the labor division. If the suggestion appeals to the Congress,
it will be well to specify that the labor division shall be constituted of representatives
of the four rate-making territories, thereby assuring a tribunal conversant with the conditions
which obtain in the different ratemaking sections of the country.

I wish I could bring to you the precise recommendation for the prevention of strikes which
threaten the welfare of the people and menace public safety. It is an impotent civilization
and an inadequate government which lacks the genius and the courage to guard against such a
menace to public welfare as we experienced last summer. You were aware of the Government's
great concern and its futile attempt to aid in an adjustment. It will reveal the inexcusable
obstinacy which was responsible for so much distress to the country to recall now that, though
all disputes are not yet adjusted, the many settlements which have been made were on the terms
which the Government proposed in mediation.

Public interest demands that ample power shall be conferred upon the. labor tribunal, whether
it is the present board or the suggested substitute, to require its rulings to be accepted
by both parties to a disputed question.

Let there be no confusion about the purpose of the suggested conferment of power to make decisions
effective. There can be no denial of constitutional rights of either railway workmen or railway
managers. No man can be denied his right to labor when and how he chooses, or cease to labor
when he so elects, but, since the Government assumes to safeguard his interests while employed
in an essential public service, the security of society itself demands his retirement from
the service shall not be so timed and related as to effect the destruction of that service.
This vitally essential public transportation service, demanding so much of brain and brawn,
so much for efficiency and security, ought to offer the most attractive working conditions
and the highest of wages paid to workmen in any employment.

In essentially every branch, from track repairer to the man at the locomotive throttle, the
railroad worker is responsible for the safety of human lives and the care of vast property.
His high responsibility might well rate high his pay within the limits the traffic will bear;
but the same responsibility, plus governmental protection, may justly deny him and his associates
a withdrawal from service without a warning or under circumstances which involve the paralysis
of necessary transportation. We have assumed so great a responsibility in necessary regulation
that we unconsciously have assumed the responsibility for maintained service; therefore the
lawful power for the enforcement of decisions is necessary to sustain the majesty of government
and to administer to the public welfare.

During its longer session the present Congress enacted a new tariff law. The protection of
the American standards of living demanded the insurance it provides against the distorted conditions
of world commerce The framers of the law made provision for a certain flexibility of customs
duties, whereby it is possible to readjust them as developing conditions may require. Hence we see that
it will be possible to count out directly the two groups of ovules on inspecting the ripe and dry
spikes. Experience teaches us [298] that both are present, and in nearly equal numbers; one-half
of the grains remaining smooth, and the other half becoming wrinkled.

The corresponding experiment could be made with plants of a pure sugar-race by pollination with hybrid
pollen. The spikes would show exactly the same mixture as in the above case, but now this may
be considered as conclusive proof that half the pollen-grains represent
the quality of one parent and the other half the quality of the other.

Another corollary of Mendel's law is the following. In each generation two groups return to purity,
and one-half remains hybrid. These last will repeat the same phenomenon of splitting in their
progeny, and it is easily seen that the same rule will hold good for all succeeding generations.
According to Mendel's principle, in each year there is a new hybridization,
differing in no respect from the first and original one.

If the hybrids only are propagated, each year will show one-fourth of the offspring returning to
the specific character, one-fourth assuming the type of the variety and one-half remaining
hybrid. I have tested this with a hybrid between the ordinary nightshade with black berries,
and its variety, Solanum nigrum chlorocarpum, with pale yellow fruits.

Eight generations of the hybrids were cultivated, [299] disregarding always the reverting offspring.
At the end I counted the progeny of the sixth and seventh generations and found figures for
their three groups of descendants, which exactly correspond to Mendel's
formula.

Until now we have limited ourselves to the consideration of single differentiating units. This
discussion gives a clear insight into the fundamental phenomena of hybrid fertilization. It at
once shows the correctness of the assumption of unit-characters, and of their pairing in the
sexual combinations.

But Mendel's law is not at all restricted to these simple cases. Quite on the contrary, it explains
the most intricate questions of hybridization, providing they do not transgress the limits of symmetrical
unions. But in this realm nearly all results may be calculated beforehand, on the ground of the
principle of probability. Only one more assumption need be discussed. The several pairs of antagonistic
characters must be independent from, and uninfluenced by, one another.

This premise seems to hold good in the vast majority of cases, though rare exceptions seem to
be not entirely wanting. Hence the necessity of taking all predictions from Mendel's law only
as probabilities, which will prove true in most, but not necessarily in all cases. [300] But
here we will limit ourselves to normal cases.

The first example to be considered is obviously the assumption that the parents of a cross differ
from each other in respect to two characters. A good illustrative
example is afforded by the thorn-apple.

I have crossed the blue flowered thorny form, usually known as Datura Tatula, with the white
thornless type, designated as D. Stramonium inermis. Thorns and blue pigment are obviously active
qualities, as they are dominant in the hybrids.

In the second generation both pairs of characters are resolved into their constituents and paired
anew according to Mendel's law. After isolating my hybrids during the period of flowering,
I counted among their progeny:

128 individuals with blue flowers and thorns 47 individuals with blue flowers and without thorns
54 individuals with white flowers and thorns 21 individuals with white flowers and without
thorns ---- 250

The significance of these numbers may easily be seen, when we calculate what was to be expected
on the assumption that both characters follow Mendel's law, and that both are independent from
each other. Then we would have three-fourths blue offspring and one-fourth
individuals with white flowers.

Each of these [301] two groups would consist of thorn-bearing and thornless plants, in the same
numerical relation. Thus, we come to the four groups observed in our experiment, and are able
to calculate their relative size in the following way:

Proportion Blue with thorns 3/4 X 3/4 = 9/16 = 56.25% 9 Blue, unarmed 3/4 X 1/4 = 3/16 = 18.75%
3 White with thorns 1/4 X 3/4 = 3/16 = 18.75% 3 White, unarmed 1/4 X 1/4 = 1/16 = 6.25% 1

In order to compare this inference from Mendel's law and the assumption
of independency, with the results of our experiments, we must calculate
the figures of the latter in percentages.

In this way we find:

Found Calculated Blue with thorns 128=51% 56.25% Blue unarmed 47=19% 18.75% White with thorns
54=22% 18.75% White unarmed 21= 8% 6.25%

The agreement of the experimental and the theoretical figures is as close as might be expected.

This
experiment is to be considered only as an illustrative example of
a rule of wide application.

The rule obviously will hold good in all such cases as comply with the two conditions already
premised, viz.: that each character agrees with Mendel's law, and that both are wholly independent
of each other. It is clear that our figures show the numerical composition [302] of the hybrid offspring
for any single instance, irrespective of the morphological nature of the qualities involved.

Mendel
has proved the correctness of these deductions by his experiments
with peas, and by combining their color (yellow or green) with the
chemical composition (starch or sugar) and other pairs of characters.

I will now give two further illustrations afforded by crosses of the ordinary campion. I used the
red-flowered or day-campion, which is a perennial herb, and a smooth variety of the white
evening-campion, which flowers as a rule in the first summer. The combination of flower-color
and pubescence gave the following composition for the second hybrid generation:

Number % Calculation Hairy and red 70 44 56.25% Hairy and white 23 14 18.75% Smooth and red 46
23 18.75% Smooth and white 19 12 6.25%

For the combination of pubescence and the capacity of flowering in the first year I found:

Number % Calculated Hairy, flowering 286 52 56.25% Hairy, without stem 128 23 18.75% Smooth,
flowering 96 17 18.75% Smooth, without stem 42 8 6.25%

Many other cases have been tested by different writers and the general result is the [303] applicability
of Mendel's formula to all cases complying with the given conditions.

Intentionally I have chosen for the last example two pairs of antagonisms,
relating to the same pair of plants, and which may be tested in one
experiment and combined in one calculation.

For the latter we need only assume the same conditions as mentioned before, but now for three
different qualities. It is easily seen that the third quality would split each of our four groups into
two smaller ones in the proportion of 3/4 : 1/4.

We would then get eight groups of the following composition:

9/16 X 3/4 = 27/64 or 42.2% 9/16 X 1/4 = 9/64 " 14.1% 3/16 X 3/4 = 9/64 " 14.1% 3/16 X 1/4 =
3/64 " 4.7% 1/16 X 1/4 = 1/64 " 1.6%

The characters chosen for our experiment include the absence of stem and flowers in the first
year, and therefore would require a second year to determine the flower-color on the perennial specimens.
Instead of doing so I have taken another character, shown by the teeth of the capsules when opening.
These curve outwards [304] in the red campion, but lack this capacity in the evening-campion,
diverging only until an upright position is reached.

The combination of hairs, colors and teeth gives eight groups, and the counting of their respective
numbers of individuals gave the following:

Teeth Hairs Flowers of capsules Number % Calculated

Hairy red curved 91 47 42.2% Hairy red straight 15 7.5 14.1% Hairy white curved 23 12 14.1%
Hairy white straight 17 8.5 4.7% Smooth red curved 23 12 14.1% Smooth red straight 9 4.5 4.7%
Smooth white curved 5 2.5 4.7% Smooth white straight 12 6 1.6%

The
agreement is as comprehensive as might be expected from an experiment
with about 200 plants, and there can be no doubt that a repetition
on a larger scale would give still closer agreement.

In the same way we might proceed to crosses with four or more differentiating
characters.

But each new character will double the number of the groups. Four characters will combine
into 16 groups, five into 32, six into 64, seven into 128, etc. Hence it is easily seen that
the size of the experiments must be made larger and larger in the same ratio, if we intend to
expect numbers equally trustworthy.

For [305] seven differentiating marks 16,384 individuals are required for a complete series.
And in this set the group with the seven attributes all in a latent condition would contain only
a single individual.

Unfortunately the practical value of these calculations is not very great. They indicate the
size of the cultures required to get all the possible combinations, and show that in ordinary
cases many thousands of individuals have to be cultivated, in order
to exhaust the whole range of possibilities.

They further show that among all these thousands, only very few are constant in all their characters;
in fact, it may easily be seen that with seven differentiating points among the 16,384 named above,
only one individual will have all the seven qualities in pure active, and only one will have
them all in a purely dormant condition. Then there will be some with some attributes active
and others latent, but their numbers will also be very small. All others will split up in the
succeeding generation in regard to one or more of their apparently active marks. And since only
in very rare cases the stable hybrids can be distinguished by external
characters from the unstable ones, the stability of each individual
bearing a desired combination of characters would have to be established
by experiment [306] after pure fertilization.

Mendel's law teaches us to predict the difficulties, but hardly shows any way to avoid them.
It lays great stress on the old prescript of isolation and pure fertilization, but it will have
to be worked out and applied to a large number of practical cases before it will gain a preeminent
influence in horticultural practice.

Or, as Bailey states it, we are only beginning to find a pathway through the bewildering maze
of hybridization.

This pathway is to be laid out with regard to the following considerations. We are not to cross
species or varieties, or even accidental plants. We must cross unit-characters, and consider the plants
only as the bearers of these units.

We may assume that these units are represented in the hereditary substance of the cell-nucleus
by definite bodies of too small a size to be seen, but constituting together the chromosomes.
We may call these innermost representatives of the unit-characters pangenes, in accordance with
Darwin's hypothesis of pangenesis, or give them any other name, or
we may even wholly abstain from such theoretical discussion, and limit
ourselves to the conception of the visible character-units.

These units then may be present, or lacking and in the first case active, or latent.

[307] True elementary species differ from each other in a number of
unit-characters, which do not contrast.

They have arisen by progressive mutation. One species has one kind of unit, another species has another
kind. On combining these, there can be no interchange. Mendelism assumes such an interchange between
units of the same character, but in a different condition. Activity and latency are such conditions,
and therefore Mendel's law obviously applies to them. They require pairs of antagonistic qualities,
and have no connection whatever with those qualities, which do not
find an opponent in the other parent.

Now, only pure varieties afford such pure conditions. When undergoing further modifications,
some of them may be in the progressive line and others in the retrogressive. Progressive modifications
give new units, which are not in contrast with any other, retrograde changes turn active units
into the latent condition and so give rise to pairs. Ordinary species generally originate in this way, and
hence differ from each other partly in specific, partly in varietal characters. As to the first,
they give in their hybrids stable peculiarities, while as to the latter, they split up according
to Mendel's law.

Unpaired or unbalanced characters lie side by side with paired or
balanced qualities, and they [308] do so in nearly all the crosses
made for practical purposes, and in very many scientific experiments.

Even Mendel's peas were not pure in this respect, much less do the campions noted above differ only
in Mendelian characters.

Comparative and systematic studies must be made to ascertain the true nature of every unit
in every single plant, and crossing experiments must be based on these distinctions in order
to decide what laws are applicable in any case.

[309] D. EVER-SPORTING VARIETIES

LECTURE XI

STRIPED FLOWERS

Terminology is an awkward thing.

It is as disagreeable to be compelled to make new names, as to be constrained to use the old
faulty ones. Different readers may associate different ideas with the same terms, and unfortunately
this is the case with much of the terminology of the science of heredity and variability.
What are species and what are varieties? How many different conceptions are conveyed by the terms
constancy and variability? We are compelled to use them, but we are not at all sure that we
are rightly understood when we do so.

Gradually new terms arise and make their way. They have a more limited applicability than the old
ones, and are more narrowly circumscribed. They are not to supplant the older terms, but permit
their use in a more general way.

[310] One of these doubtful terms is the word sport.

It often means bud-variation, while in other cases it conveys the same idea as the old botanical
term of mutation.

But then all sorts of seemingly sudden variations are occasionally designated by the same term
by one writer or another, and even accidental anomalies, such as teratological ascidia, are often
said to arise by sports.

If we compare all these different conceptions, we will find that their
most general feature is the suddenness and the rarity of the phenomenon.

They convey the idea of something unexpected, something not always or not regularly occurring.
But even this demarcation is not universal, and there are processes that are regularly repeated
and nevertheless are called sports. These at least should be designated by another name.

In order to avoid confusion as far as possible, with the least change in existing terminology,
I shall use the term "ever-sporting varieties" for such forms as are regularly propagated by
seed, and of pure and not hybrid origin, but which sport in nearly
every generation.

The term is a new one, but the facts are for the most part new, and
require to be considered in a new light.

Its meaning will become clearer at once when the illustrations afforded by [311] striped flowers are
introduced. In the following discussion it will be found most convenient to give a summary of
what is known concerning them, and follow this by a consideration
of the detailed evidence obtained experimentally, which supports the
usage cited.

The striped variety of the larkspur of our gardens is
known to produce monochromatic flowers, in addition to striped ones.
They may be borne by the same racemes, or on different branches, or
some seedlings from the same parent-plant may bear monochromatic flowers
while others may be striped. Such deviations are usually called sports.
But they occur yearly and regularly and may be observed invariably
when the cultures are large enough. Such a variety I shall call "ever-sporting."

The
striped larkspur is one of the oldest garden varieties. It has kept
its capacity of sporting through centuries, and therefore may in some
sense be said to be quite stable. Its changes are limited to a rather
narrow circle, and this circle is as constant as the peculiarities
of any other constant species or variety. But within this circle it
is always changing from small stripes to broad streaks, and from them
to pure colors. Here the variability is a thing of absolute constancy,
while the constancy consists in eternal changes. Such apparent [312]
contradictions are unavoidable, when we apply the old term to such
unusual though not at all new cases. Combining the stability and the
qualities of sports in one word, we may evidently best express it
by the new term of eversporting variety.

We will now discuss the
exact nature of such varieties, and of the laws of heredity which
govern them. But before doing so, I might point out, that this new
type is a very common one. It embraces most of the so-called variable
types in horticulture, and besides these a wide range of anomalies.

Every
ever-sporting variety has at least two different types, around and
between which it varies in numerous grades, but to which it is absolutely
limited. Variegated leaves fluctuate between green and white, or green
and yellow, and display these colors in nearly all possible patterns.
But there variability ends, and even the patterns are ordinarily narrowly
prescribed in the single varieties. Double flowers afford a similar
instance. On one side the single type, on the other the nearly wholly
double model are the extreme limits, between which the variability
is confined. By example and by treaty we have advocated arbitration.
For nearly 25 years we have been a member of The Hague Tribunal, and have long sought the creation
of a permanent World Court of Justice. I am in full accord with both of these policies. I favor
the establishment of such a court intended to include the whole world. That is, and has long
been, an American policy.

Pending before the Senate is a proposal that this Government give its support to the Permanent
Court of International Justice, which is a new and somewhat different plan. This is not a partisan
question. It should not assume an artificial importance. The court is merely a convenient instrument
of adjustment to which we could go, but to which we could not be brought. It should be discussed
with entire candor, not by a political but by a judicial method, without pressure and without
prejudice. Partisanship has no place in our foreign relations. As I wish to see a court established,
and as the proposal presents the only practical plan on which many nations have ever agreed,
though it may not meet every desire, I therefore commend it to the favorable consideration
of the Senate, with the proposed reservations clearly indicating our refusal to adhere to the
League of Nations.

RUSSIA

Our diplomatic relations, lately so largely interrupted, are now being resumed, but Russia
presents notable difficulties. We have every desire to see that great people, who are our traditional
friends, restored to their position among the nations of the earth. We have relieved their
pitiable destitution with an enormous charity. Our Government offers no objection to the carrying
on of commerce by our citizens with the people of Russia. Our Government does not propose,
however, to enter into relations with another regime which refuses to recognize the sanctity
of international obligations. I do not propose to barter away for the privilege of trade any
of the cherished rights of humanity. I do not propose to make merchandise of any American principles.
These rights and principles must go wherever the sanctions of our Government go.

But while the favor of America is not for sale, I am willing to make very large concessions
for the purpose of rescuing the people of Russia. Already encouraging evidences of returning
to the ancient ways of society can be detected. But more are needed. Whenever there appears
any disposition to compensate our citizens who were despoiled, and to recognize that debt contracted
with our Government, not by the Czar, but by the newly formed Republic of Russia; whenever
the active spirit of enmity to our institutions is abated; whenever there appear works mete
for repentance; our country ought to be the first to go to the economic and moral rescue of
Russia. We have every desire to help and no desire to injure. We hope the time is near at hand
when we can act.

DEBTS

The current debt and interest due from foreign Governments, exclusive of the British debt of
$4,600,000,000, is about $7,200,000,000. I do not favor the cancellation of this debt, but
I see no objection to adjusting it in accordance with the principle adopted for the British
debt. Our country would not wish to assume the role of an oppressive creditor, but would maintain
the principle that financial obligations between nations are likewise moral obligations which
international faith and honor require should be discharged.

Our Government has a liquidated claim against Germany for the expense of the army of occupation
of over $255,000,000. Besides this, the Mixed Claims Commission have before them about 12,500
claims of American citizens, aggregating about $1,225,000,000. These claims have already been
reduced by a recent decision, but there are valid claims reaching well toward $500,000,000.
Our thousands of citizens with credits due them of hundreds of millions of dollars have no
redress save in the action of our Government. These are very substantial interests, which it
is the duty of our Government to protect as best it can. That course I propose to pursue.

It is for these reasons that we have a direct interest in the economic recovery of Europe.
They are enlarged by our desire for the stability of civilization and the welfare of humanity.
That we are making sacrifices to that end none can deny. Our deferred interest alone amounts
to a million dollars every day. But recently we offered to aid with our advice and counsel.
We have reiterated our desire to see France paid and Germany revived. We have proposed disarmament.
We have earnestly sought to compose differences and restore peace. We shall persevere in well-doing,
not by force, but by reason.

FOREIGN PAPERS

Under the law the papers pertaining to foreign relations to be printed are transmitted as a
part of this message. Other volumes of these papers will follow.

FOREIGN SERVICE

The foreign service of our Government needs to be reorganized and improved.

FISCAL CONDITION

Our main problems are domestic problems. Financial stability is the first requisite of sound
government. We can not escape the effect of world conditions. We can not avoid the inevitable
results of the economic disorders which have reached all nations. But we shall diminish their
harm to us in proportion as we continue to restore our Government finances to a secure and
endurable position. This we can and must do. Upon that firm foundation rests the only hope
of progress and prosperity. From that source must come relief for the people.

This is being, accomplished by a drastic but orderly retrenchment, which is bringing our expenses
within our means. The origin of this has been the determination of the American people, the
main support has been the courage of those in authority, and the effective method has been
the Budget System. The result has involved real sacrifice by department heads, but it has been
made without flinching. This system is a law of the Congress. It represents your will. It must
be maintained, and ought to be strengthened by the example of your observance. Without a Budget
System there can be no fixed responsibility and no constructive scientific economy.

This great concentration of effort by the administration and Congress has brought the expenditures,
exclusive of the self-supporting Post. Office Department, down to three billion dollars. It
is possible, in consequence, to make a large reduction in the taxes of the people, which is
the sole object of all curtailment. This is treated at greater length in the Budget message,
and a proposed plan has been presented in detail in a statement by the Secretary of the Treasury
which has my unqualified approval. I especially commend a decrease on earned incomes, and further
abolition of admission, message, and nuisance taxes. The amusement and educational value of
moving pictures ought not to be taxed. Diminishing charges against moderate incomes from investment
will afford immense relief, while a revision of the surtaxes will not only provide additional
money for capital investment, thus stimulating industry and employing more but will not greatly
reduce the revenue from that source, and may in the future actually increase it.

Being opposed to war taxes in time of peace, I am not in favor of excess-profits taxes. A very
great service could be rendered through immediate enactment of legislation relieving the people
of some of the burden of taxation. To reduce war taxes is to give every home a better chance.

For seven years the people have borne with uncomplaining courage the tremendous burden of national
and local taxation. These must both be reduced. The taxes of the Nation must be reduced now
as much as prudence will permit, and expenditures must be reduced accordingly. High taxes reach
everywhere and burden everybody. They gear most heavily upon the poor. They diminish industry
and commerce. They make agriculture unprofitable. They increase the rates on transportation.
They are a charge on every necessary of life. Of all services which the Congress can render
to the country, I have no hesitation in declaring t neglect it, to postpone it, to obstruct
it by unsound proposals, is to become unworthy of public confidence and untrue to public trust.
The country wants this measure to have the right of way over an others.

Another reform which is urgent in our fiscal system is the abolition of the right to issue
tax-exempt securities. The existing system not only permits a large amount of the wealth of
the Notion to escape its just burden but acts as a continual stimulant to municipal extravagance.
This should be prohibited by constitutional amendment. All the wealth of the Nation ought to
contribute its fair share to the expenses of the Nation.

TARIFF TAW

The present tariff law has accomplished its two main objects. It has secured an abundant revenue
and been productive of an abounding prosperity. Under it the country has had a very large export
and import trade. A constant revision of the tariff by the Congress is disturbing and harmful.
The present law contains an elastic provision authorizing the President to increase or decrease
present schedules not in excess of 50 per centum to meet the difference in cost of production
at home and abroad. This does not, to my mind, warrant a rewriting g of the whole law, but
does mean, and will be so administered, that whenever the required investigation shows that
inequalities of sufficient importance exist in any schedule, the power to change them should
and will be applied.

SHIPPING

The entire well being of our country is dependent upon transportation by sea and land. Our
Government during the war acquired a large merchant fleet which should be transferred, as soon
as possible, to private ownership and operation under conditions which would secure two results:
First, and of prime importance, adequate means for national defense; second, adequate service
to American commerce. Until shipping conditions are such that our fleet can be disposed of
advantageously under these conditions, it will be operated as economically as possible under
such plans as may be devised from time to time by the Shipping Board. We must have a merchant
marine which meets these requirements, and we shall have to pay the cost of its service.

PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS

The time has come to resume in a moderate way the opening of our intracoastal waterways; the
control of flood waters of the Mississippi and of the Colorado Rivers; the improvement of the
waterways from the Great Lakes toward the Gulf of Mexico; and the development of the great
power and navigation project of the St. Lawrence River, for which efforts are now being made
to secure the necessary treaty with Canada. These projects can not all be undertaken at once,
but all should have the immediate consideration of the Congress and be adopted as fast as plans
can be matured and the necessary funds become available. This is not incompatible with economy,
for their nature does not require so much a public expenditure as a capital investment which
will be reproductive, as evidenced by the marked increase in revenue from the Panama Canal.
Upon these projects depend much future industrial and agricultural progress. They represent
the protection of large areas from flood and the addition of a great amount of cheap power
and cheap freight by use of navigation, chief of which is the bringing of ocean-going ships
to the Great Lakes.

Another problem of allied character is the superpower development of the Northeastern States,
consideration of which is growing under the direction of the Department of Commerce by joint
conference with the local authorities.

RAILROADS

Criticism of the railroad law has been directed, first, to the section laying down the rule
by which rates are fixed, and providing for payment to the Government and use of excess earnings;
second, to the method for the adjustment of wage scales; and third, to the authority permitting
consolidations.

It has been erroneously assumed that the act undertakes to guarantee railroad earnings. The
law requires that rates should be just and reasonable. That has always been the rule under
which rates have been fixed. To make a rate that does not yield a fair return results in confiscation,
and confiscatory rates are of course unconstitutional. Unless the Government adheres to the
rule of making a rate that will yield a fair return, it must abandon rate making altogether.
The new and important feature of that part of the law is the recapture and redistribution of
excess rates. The constitutionality of this method is now before the Supreme Court for adjudication.
Their decision should be awaited before attempting further legislation on this subject. Furthermore,
the importance of this feature will not be great if consolidation goes into effect.

The settlement of railroad labor disputes is a matter of grave public concern. The Labor Board
was established to protect the public in the enjoyment of continuous service by attempting
to insure justice between the companies and their employees. It has been a great help, but
is not altogether satisfactory to the public, the employees, or the companies. If a substantial
agreement can be reached among the groups interested, there should be no hesitation in enacting
such agreement into law. If it is not reached, the Labor Board may very well be left for the
present to protect the public welfare.

The law for consolidations is not sufficiently effective to be expeditious. Additional legislation
is needed giving authority for voluntary consolidations, both regional and route, and providing
Government machinery to aid and stimulate such action, always subject to the approval of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. This should authorize the commission to appoint committees
for each proposed group, representing the public and the component roads, with power to negotiate
with individual security holders for an exchange of their securities for those of the, consolidation
on such terms and conditions as the commission may prescribe for avoiding any confiscation
and preserving fair values. Should this permissive consolidation prove ineffective after a
limited period, the authority of the Government will have to be directly invoked.

Consolidation appears to be the only feasible method for the maintenance of an adequate system
of transportation with an opportunity so to adjust freight rates as to meet such temporary
conditions as now prevail in some agricultural sections. Competent authorities agree that an
entire reorganization of the rate structure for freight is necessary. This should be ordered
at once by the Congress.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

As no revision of the laws of the United States has been made since 1878, a commission or committee
should be created to undertake this work. The Judicial Council reports that two more district
judges are needed in the southern district of New York, one in the northern district of Georgia,
and two more circuit judges in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit. Legislation
should be considered for this purpose.

It is desirable to expedite the hearing and disposal of cases. A commission of Federal judges
and lawyers should be created to recommend legislation by which the procedure in the Federal
trial courts may be simplified and regulated by rules of court, rather than by statute; such
rules to be submitted to the Congress and to be in force until annulled or modified by the
Congress. The Supreme Court needs legislation revising and simplifying the laws governing review
by that court, and enlarging the classes of cases of too little public importance to be subject
to review. Such reforms would expedite the transaction of the business of the courts. The administration
of justice is likely to fail if it be long delayed.

The National Government has never given adequate attention to its prison problems. It ought
to provide employment in such forms of production as can be used by the Government, though
not sold to the public in competition with private business, for all prisoners who can be placed
at work, and for which they should receive a reasonable compensation, available for their dependents.

Two independent reformatories are needed; one for the segregation of women, and another for
the segregation of young men serving their first sentence.

The administration of justice would be facilitated greatly by including in the Bureau of Investigation
of the Department of Justice a Division of Criminal Identification, where there would be collected
this information which is now indispensable in the suppression of crime.

PROHIBITION

The prohibition amendment to the Constitution requires the Congress. and the President to provide
adequate laws to prevent its violation. It is my duty to enforce such laws. For that purpose
a treaty is being negotiated with Great Britain with respect to the right of search of hovering
vessels. To prevent smuggling, the Coast Card should be greatly strengthened, and a supply
of swift power boats should be provided. The major sources of production should be rigidly
regulated, and every effort should be made to suppress interstate traffic. With this action
on the part of the National Government, and the cooperation which is usually rendered by municipal
and State authorities, prohibition should be made effective. Free government has no greater
menace than disrespect for authority and continual violation of law. It is the duty of a citizen
not only to observe the law but to let it be known that he is opposed to its violation.

THE NEGRO

Numbered among our population are some 12,000,000 colored people. Under our Constitution their
rights are just as sacred as those of any other citizen. It is both a public and a private
duty to protect those rights. The Congress ought to exercise all its powers of prevention and
punishment against the hideous crime of lynching, of which the negroes are by no means the
sole sufferers, but for which they furnish a majority of the victims.

Already a considerable sum is appropriated to give the negroes vocational training in agriculture.
About half a million dollars is recommended for medical courses at Howard University to help
contribute to the education of 500 colored doctors needed each year. On account of the integration
of large numbers into industrial centers, it has been proposed that a commission be created,
composed of members from both races, to formulate a better policy for mutual understanding
and confidence. Such an effort is to be commended. Everyone would rejoice in the accomplishment
of the results which it seeks. But it is well to recognize that these difficulties are to a
large extent local problems which must be worked out by the mutual forbearance and human kindness
of each community. Such a method gives much more promise of a real remedy than outside interference.

CIVIL SERVICE

The maintenance and extension of the classified civil service is exceedingly important. There
are nearly 550,000 persons in the executive civil service drawing about $700,000,000 of yearly
compensation. Four-fifths of these are in the classified service. This method of selection
of the employees of the United States is especially desirable for the Post Office Department.
The Civil Service Commission has recommended that postmasters at first, second, and third class
offices be classified. Such action, accompanied by a repeal of the four-year term of office,
would undoubtedly be an improvement. I also recommend that the field force for prohibition
enforcement be brought within the classified civil service without covering in the present
membership. The best method for selecting public servants is the merit system.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

Many of the departments in Washington need better housing facilities. Some are so crowded that
their work is impeded, others are so scattered that they lose their identity. While I do not
favor at this time a general public building law, I believe it is now necessary, in accordance
with plans already sanctioned for a unified and orderly system for the development of this
city, to begin the carrying out of those plans by authorizing the erection of three or four
buildings most urgently needed by an annual appropriation of $5,000,000.

REGULATORY LEGISLATION

Cooperation with other maritime powers is necessary for complete protection of our coast waters
from pollution. Plans for this are under way, but await certain experiments for refuse disposal.
Meantime laws prohibiting spreading oil and oil refuse from vessels in our own territorial
waters would be most helpful against this menace and should be speedily enacted.

Laws should be passed regulating aviation.

Revision is needed of the laws regulating radio interference.

Legislation and regulations establishing load liner, to provide safe loading of vessels leaving
our ports are necessary and recodification of our navigation laws is vital.

Revision of procedure of the Federal Trade Commission will give more constructive purpose to
this department.

If our Alaskan fisheries are to be saved from destruction, there must be further legislation
declaring a general policy and delegating the authority to make rules and regulations to an
administrative body.

ARMY AND NAVY

For several years we have been decreasing the personnel of the Army and Navy, and reducing
their power to the danger point. Further reductions should not be made. The Army is a guarantee
of the security of our citizens at home; the Navy is a guarantee of the security of our citizens
abroad. Both of these services should be strengthened rather than weakened. Additional planes
are needed for the Army, and additional submarines for the Navy. The defenses of Panama must
be perfected. We want no more competitive armaments. We want no more war. But we want no weakness
that invites imposition. A people who neglect their national defense are putting in jeopardy
their national honor.

INSULAR POSSESSIONS

Conditions in the insular possessions on the whole have been good. Their business has been
reviving. They are being administered according to law. That effort has the full support of
the administration. Such recommendations as may conic from their people or their governments
should have the most considerate attention.

EDUCATION AND WELFARE

Our National Government is not doing as much as it legitimately can do to promote the welfare
of the people. Our enormous material wealth, our institutions, our whole form of society, can
not be considered fully successful until their benefits reach the merit of every individual.
This is not a suggestion that the Government should, or could, assume for the people the inevitable
burdens of existence. There is no method by which we can either be relieved of the results
of our own folly or be guaranteed a successful life. There is an inescapable personal responsibility
for the development of character, of industry, of thrift, and of self-control. These do not
come from the Government, but from the people themselves. But the Government can and should
always be expressive of steadfast determination, always vigilant, to maintain conditions under
which these virtues are most likely to develop and secure recognition and reward. This is the
American policy.

It is in accordance with this principle that we have enacted laws for the protection of the
public health and have adopted prohibition in narcotic drugs and intoxicating liquors. For
purposes of national uniformity we ought to provide, by constitutional amendment and appropriate
legislation, for a limitation of child labor, and in all cases under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the Federal Government a minimum wage law for women, which would undoubtedly find sufficient
power of enforcement in the influence of public opinion.

Having in mind that education is peculiarly a local problem, and that it should always be pursued
with the largest freedom of choice by students and parents, nevertheless, the Federal Government
might well give the benefit of its counsel and encouragement more freely in this direction.
If anyone doubts the need of concerted action by the States of the Nation for this purpose,
it is only necessary to consider the appalling figures of illiteracy representing a condition
which does not vary much in all parts of the Union. I do not favor the making of appropriations
from the National Treasury to be expended directly on local education, but I do consider it
a fundamental requirement of national activity which, accompanied by allied subjects of welfare,
is worthy of a separate department and a place in the Cabinet. The humanitarian side of government
should not be repressed, but should be cultivated.

Mere intelligence, however, is not enough. Enlightenment must be accompanied by that moral
power which is the product of the home and of rebellion. Real education and true welfare for
the people rest inevitably on this foundation, which the Government can approve and commend,
but which the people themselves must create.

IMMIGRATION

American institutions rest solely on good citizenship. They were created by people who had
a background of self-government. New arrivals should be limited to our capacity to absorb them
into the ranks of good citizenship. America must be kept American. For this purpose, it is
necessary to continue a policy of restricted immigration. It would be well to make such immigration
of a selective nature with some inspection at the source, and based either on a prior census
or upon the record of naturalization. Either method would insure the admission of those with
the largest capacity and best intention of becoming citizens. I am convinced that our present
economic and social conditions warrant a limitation of those to be admitted. We should find
additional safety in a law requiring the immediate registration of all aliens. Those who do
not want to be partakers of the American spirit ought not to settle in America.

VETERANS

No more important duty falls on the Government of the United States than the adequate care
of its veterans. Those suffering disabilities incurred in the service must have sufficient
hospital relief and compensation. Their dependents must be supported. Rehabilitation and vocational
training must be completed. All of this service must be clean, must be prompt and effective,
and it must be administered in a spirit of the broadest and deepest human sympathy. If investigation
reveals any present defects of administration or need Of legislation, orders will be given
for the immediate correction of administration, and recommendations for legislation should
be given the highest preference.

At present there are 9,500 vacant beds in Government hospitals, I recommend that all hospitals
be authorized at once to receive and care for, without hospital pay, the veterans of all wars
needing such care, whenever there are vacant beds, and that immediate steps be taken to enlarge
and build new hospitals to serve all such cases.

The American Legion will present to the Congress a legislative program too extensive for detailed
discussion here. It is a carefully matured plan. While some of it I do not favor, with much
of it I am in hearty accord, and I recommend that a most painstaking effort be made to provide
remedies for any defects in the administration of the present laws which their experience has
revealed. The attitude of the Government toward these proposals should be one of generosity.
But I do not favor the granting of a bonus.

COAL

The cost of coal has become unbearably high. It places a great burden on our industrial and
domestic life. The public welfare requires a reduction in the price of fuel. With the enormous
deposits in existence, failure of supply ought not to be tolerated. Those responsible for the
conditions in this industry should undertake its reform and free it from any charge of profiteering.

The report of the Coal Commission will be before the Congress. It comprises all the facts.
It represents the mature deliberations and conclusions of the best talent and experience that
ever made a national survey of the production and distribution of fuel. I do not favor Government
ownership or operation of coal mines. The need is for action under private ownership that will
secure greater continuity of production and greater public protection. The Federal Government
probably has no peacetime authority to regulate wages, prices, or profits in coal at the mines
or among dealers, but by ascertaining and publishing facts it can exercise great influence.

The source of the difficulty in the bituminous coal fields is the intermittence of operation
which causes great waste of both capital and labor. That part of the report dealing with this
problem has much significance, and is suggestive of necessary remedies. By amending, the car
rules, by encouraging greater unity of ownership, and possibly by permitting common selling
agents for limited districts on condition that they accept adequate regulations and guarantee
that competition between districts be unlimited, distribution, storage, and continuity ought
to be improved.

The supply of coal must be constant. In case of its prospective interruption, the President
should have authority to appoint a commission empowered to deal with whatever emergency situation
might arise, to aid conciliation and voluntary arbitration, to adjust any existing or threatened
controversy between the employer and the employee when collective bargaining fails, and by
controlling distribution to prevent profiteering in this vital necessity. This legislation
is exceedingly urgent, and essential to the exercise of national authority for the protection
of the people. Those who undertake the responsibility of management or employment in this industry
do so with the full knowledge that the public interest is paramount, and that to fail through
any motive of selfishness in its service is such a betrayal of duty as warrants uncompromising
action by the Government.

REORGANIZATION

A special joint committee has been appointed to work out a plan for a reorganization of the
different departments and bureaus of the Government more scientific and economical than the
present system. With the exception of the consolidation of the War and Navy Departments and
some minor details, the plan has the general sanction of the President and the Cabinet. It
is important that reorganization be enacted into law at the present session.

AGRICULTURE

Aided by the sound principles adopted by the Government, the business of the country has had
an extraordinary revival. Looked at as a whole, the Nation is in the enjoyment of remarkable
prosperity. Industry and commerce are thriving. For the most tart agriculture is successful,
eleven staples having risen in value from about $5,300,000,000 two years ago to about. $7,000,000,000
for the current year. But range cattle are still low in price, and some sections of the wheat
area, notably Minnesota, North Dakota, and on west, have many cases of actual distress. With
his products not selling on a parity with the products of industry, every sound remedy that
can be devised should be applied for the relief of the farmer. He represents a character, a
type of citizenship, and a public necessity that must be preserved and afforded every facility
for regaining prosperity.

The distress is most acute among those wholly dependent upon one crop.. Wheat acreage was greatly
expanded and has not yet been sufficiently reduced. A large amount is raised for export, which
has to meet the competition in the world market of large amounts raised on land much cheaper
and much more productive.

No complicated scheme of relief, no plan for Government fixing of prices, no resort to the
public Treasury will be of any permanent value in establishing agriculture. Simple and direct
methods put into operation by the farmer himself are the only real sources for restoration.

Indirectly the farmer must be relieved by a reduction of national and local taxation. He must
be assisted by the reorganization of the freight-rate structure which could reduce charges
on his production. To make this fully effective there ought to be railroad consolidations.
Cheaper fertilizers must be provided.

He must have organization. His customer with whom he exchanges products o he farm for those
of industry is organized, labor is organized, business is organized, and there is no way for
agriculture to meet this unless it, too, is organized. The acreage of wheat is too large. Unless
we can meet the world market at a profit, we must stop raising for export. Organization would
help to reduce acreage. Systems of cooperative marketing created by the farmers themselves,
supervised by competent management, without doubt would be of assistance, but, the can not
wholly solve the problem. Our agricultural schools ought to have thorough courses in the theory
of organization and cooperative marketing.

Diversification is necessary. Those farmers who raise their living on their land are not greatly
in distress. Such loans as are wisely needed to assist buying stock and other materials to
start in this direction should be financed through a Government agency as a temporary and emergency
expedient.

The remaining difficulty is the disposition of exportable wheat. I do not favor the permanent
interference of the Government in this problem. That probably would increase the trouble by
increasing production. But it seems feasible to provide Government assistance to exports, and
authority should be given the War Finance Corporation to grant, in its discretion, the most
liberal terms of payment for fats and grains exported for the direct benefit of the farm.

MUSCLE SHOALS

The Government is undertaking to develop a great water-power project known as Muscle Shoals,
on which it has expended many million dollars. The work is still going on. Subject to the right
to retake in time of war, I recommend that this property with a location for auxiliary steam
plant and rights of way be sold. This would end the present burden of expense and should return
to the Treasury the largest price possible to secure.

While the price is an important element, there is another consideration even more compelling.
The agriculture of the Nation needs a greater supply and lower cost of fertilizer. This is
now imported in large quantities. The best information I can secure indicates that present
methods of power production would not be able profitably to meet the price at which these imports
can be sold. To obtain a supply from this water power would require long and costly experimentation
to perfect a process for cheap production. Otherwise our purpose would fail completely. It
seems desirable, therefore, in order to protect and promote the public welfare, to have adequate
covenants that such experimentation be made and carried on to success. The great advantage
of low-priced nitrates must be secured for the direct benefit of the farmers and the indirect
benefit of the public in time of peace, and of the Government in time of war. If this main
object be accomplished, the amount of money received for the property is not a primary or major
consideration.

Such a solution will involve complicated negotiations, and there is no authority for that purpose.
I therefore recommend that the Congress appoint a small joint committee to consider offers,
conduct negotiations, and report definite recommendations.

RECLAMATION

By reason of many contributing causes, occupants of our reclamation projects are in financial
difficulties, which in some cases are acute. Relief should be granted by definite authority
of law empowering the Secretary of the Interior in his discretion to suspend, readjust, and
reassess all charges against water users. This whole question is being considered by experts.
You will have the advantage of the facts and conclusions which they may develop. This situation,
involving a Government investment of more than $135,000,000, and affecting more than 30,000
water users, is serious. While relief which is necessary should be granted, yet contracts with
the Government which can be met should be met. The established general policy of these projects
should not be abandoned for any private control.

HIGHWAYS AND FORESTS

Highways and reforestation should continue to have the interest and support of the Government.
Everyone is anxious for good highways. I have made a liberal proposal in the Budget for the
continuing payment to the States by the Federal Government of its share for this necessary
public improvement. No expenditure of public money contributes so much to the national wealth
as for building good roads.

Reforestation has an importance far above the attention it usually secures. A special committee
of the Senate is investigating this need, and I shall welcome a constructive policy based on
their report.

It is 100 years since our country announced the Monroe doctrine. This principle has been ever
since, and is now, one of the main foundations of our foreign relations. It must be maintained.
But in maintaining it we must not be forgetful that a great change has taken place. We are
no longer a weak Nation, thinking mainly of defense, dreading foreign imposition. We are great
and powerful. New powers bring new responsibilities. Our ditty then was to protect ourselves.
Added to that, our duty now is to help give stability to the world. We want idealism. We want
that vision which lifts men and nations above themselves. These are virtues by reason of their
own merit. But they must not be cloistered; they must not be impractical; they must not be
ineffective.

The world has had enough of the curse of hatred and selfishness, of destruction and war. It
has had enough of the wrongful use of material power. For the healing of the nations there
must be good will and charity, confidence and peace. The time has come for a more practical
use of moral power, and more reliance upon the principle that right makes its own might. Our
authority among the nations must be represented by justice and mercy. It is necessary not only
to have faith, but to make sacrifices for our faith. The spiritual forces of the world make
all its final determinations. It is with these voices that America should speak. Whenever they
declare a righteous purpose there need be no doubt that they will be heard. America has taken
her place in the world as a Republic--free, independent, powerful. The best service that can
be rendered to humanity is the assurance that this place will be maintained.

***

State of the Union Address Calvin Coolidge December 3, 1924

To the Congress of the United States:

The present state of the Union, upon which it is customary for the President to report to the
Congress under the provisions of the Constitution, is such that it may be regarded with encouragement
and satisfaction by every American. Our country is almost unique in its ability to discharge
fully and promptly all its obligations at home and abroad, and provide for all its inhabitants
an increase in material resources, in intellectual vigor and in moral power. The Nation holds
a position unsurpassed in all former human experience. This does not mean that we do not have
any problems. It is elementary that the increasing breadth of our experience necessarily increases
the problems of our national life. But it does mean that if all will but apply ourselves industriously
and honestly, we have ample powers with which to meet our problems and provide for I heir speedy
solution. I do not profess that we can secure an era of perfection in human existence, but
we can provide an era of peace and prosperity, attended with freedom and justice and made more
and more satisfying by the ministrations of the charities and humanities of life.

Our domestic problems are for the most part economic. We have our enormous debt to pay, and
we are paying it. We have the high cost of government to diminish, and we are diminishing it.
We have a heavy burden of taxation to reduce, and we are reducing it. But while remarkable
progress has been made in these directions, the work is yet far from accomplished. We still
owe over $21,000,000,000, the cost of the National Government is still about $3,500,000,000,
and the national taxes still amount to about $27 for each one of our inhabitants. There yet
exists this enormous field for the application of economy.

In my opinion the Government can do more to remedy the economic ills of the people by a system
of rigid economy in public expenditure than can be accomplished through any other action. The
costs of our national and local governments combined now stand at a sum close to $100 for each
inhabitant of the land. A little less than one-third of this is represented by national expenditure,
and a little more than two-thirds by local expenditure. It is an ominous fact that only the
National Government is reducing its debt. Others are increasing theirs at about $1,000,000,000
each year. The depression that overtook business, the disaster experienced in agriculture,
the lack of employment and the terrific shrinkage in all values which our country experienced
in a most acute form in 1920, resulted in no small measure from the prohibitive taxes which
were then levied on all productive effort. The establishment of a system of drastic economy
in public expenditure, which has enabled us to pay off about one-fifth of the national debt
since 1919, and almost cut in two the national tax burden since 1921, has been one of the main
causes in reestablishing a prosperity which has come to include within its benefits almost
every one of our inhabitants. Economy reaches everywhere. It carries a blessing to everybody.

The fallacy of the claim that the costs of government are borne by the rich and those who make
a direct contribution to the National Treasury can not be too often exposed. No system has
been devised, I do not think any system could be devised, under which any person living in
this country could escape being affected by the cost of our government. It has a direct effect
both upon the rate and the purchasing power of wages. It is felt in the price of those prime
necessities of existence, food, clothing, fuel and shelter. It would appear to be elementary
that the more the Government expends the more it must require every producer to contribute
out of his production to the Public Treasury, and the less he will have for his own benefit.
The continuing costs of public administration can be met in only one way--by the work of the
people. The higher they become, the more the people must work for the Government. The less
they are, the more the people can work for themselves.

The present estimated margin between public receipts and expenditures for this fiscal year
is very small. Perhaps the most important work that this session of the Congress can do is
to continue a policy of economy and further reduce the cost of government, in order that we
may have a reduction of taxes for the next fiscal year. Nothing is more likely to produce that
public confidence which is the forerunner and the mainstay of prosperity, encourage and enlarge
business opportunity with ample opportunity for employment at good wages, provide a larger
market for agricultural products, and put our country in a stronger position to be able to
meet the world competition in trade, than a continuing policy of economy. Of course necessary
costs must be met, proper functions of the Government performed, and constant investments for
capital account and reproductive effort must be carried on by our various departments. But
the people must know that their Government is placing upon them no unnecessary burden.

TAXES

Everyone desires a reduction of taxes, and there is a great preponderance of sentiment in favor
of taxation reform. When I approved the present tax law, I stated publicly that I did so in
spite of certain provisions which I believed unwise and harmful. One of the most glaring of
these was the making public of the amounts assessed against different income-tax payers. Although
that damage has now been done, I believe its continuation to be detrimental To the public welfare
and bound to decrease public revenues, so that it ought to be repealed.

Anybody can reduce taxes, but it is not so easy to stand in the gap and resist the passage
of increasing appropriation bills which would make tax reduction impossible. It will be very
easy to measure the strength of the attachment to reduced taxation by the power with which
increased appropriations are resisted. If at the close of the present session the Congress
has kept within the budget which I propose to present, it will then be possible to have a moderate
amount of tax reduction and all the tax reform that the Congress may wish for during the next
fiscal year. The country is now feeling the direct stimulus which came from the passage of
the last revenue bill, and under the assurance of a reasonable system of taxation there is
every prospect of an era of prosperity of unprecedented proportions. But it would be idle to
expect any such results unless business can continue free from excess profits taxation and
be accorded a system of surtaxes at rates which have for their object not the punishment of
success or the discouragement of business, but the production of the greatest amount of revenue
from large incomes. I am convinced that the larger incomes of the country would actually yield
more revenue to the Government if the basis of taxation were scientifically revised downward.
Moreover the effect of the present method of this taxation is to increase the cost of interest
on productive enterprise and to increase the burden of rent. It is altogether likely that such
reduction would so encourage and stimulate investment that it would firmly establish our country
in the economic leadership of the world.

WATERWAYS

Meantime our internal development should go on. Provision should be made for flood control
of such rivers as the Mississippi and the Colorado, and for the opening up of our inland waterways
to commerce. Consideration is due to the project of better navigation from the Great Lakes
to the Gulf. Every effort is being made to promote an agreement with Canada to build the, St.
Lawrence waterway. There are pending before the Congress bills for further development of the
Mississippi Basin, for the taking over of the Cape Cod Canal in accordance with a moral obligation
which seems to have been incurred during the war, and for the improvement of harbors on both
the Pacific and the Atlantic coasts. While this last should be divested of some of its projects
and we must proceed slowly, these bills in general have my approval. Such works are productive
of wealth and in the long run tend to a reduction of the tax burden.

RECLAMATION

Our country has a well defined policy of reclamation established under statutory authority.
This policy should be continued and made a self-sustaining activity administered in a manner
that will meet local requirements and bring our and lands into a profitable state of cultivation
as fast as there is a market for their products. Legislation is pending based on the report
of the Fact Finding Commission for the proper relief of those needing extension of time in
which to meet their payments on irrigated land, and for additional amendments and reforms of
our reclamation laws, which are all exceedingly important and should be enacted at once.

No more important development has taken place in the last year than the beginning of a restoration
of agriculture to a prosperous condition. We must permit no division of classes in this country,
with one occupation striving to secure advantage over another. Each must proceed under open
opportunities and with a fair prospect of economic equality. The Government can not successfully
insure prosperity or fix prices by legislative fiat. Every business has its risk and its times
of depression. It is well known that in the long run there will be a more even prosperity and
a more satisfactory range of prices under the natural working out of economic laws than when
the Government undertakes the artificial support of markets and industries. Still we can so
order our affairs, so protect our own people from foreign competition, so arrange our national
finances, so administer our monetary system, so provide for the extension of credits, so improve
methods of distribution, as to provide a better working machinery for the transaction of the
business of the Nation with the least possible friction and loss. The Government has been constantly
increasing its efforts in these directions for the relief and permanent establishment of agriculture
on a sound and equal basis with other business.

It is estimated that the value of the crops for this harvest year may reach $13,000,000,000,
which is an increase of over $3,000,000,000 in three years. It compares with $7,100,000,000
in 1913, and if we make deduction from the figures of 1924 for the comparatively decreased
value of the dollar, the yield this year still exceeds 1913 in purchasing power by over $1,000,000,000,
and in this interval there has been no increase in the number of farmers. Mostly by his own
effort the farmer has decreased the cost of production. A marked increase in the price of his
products and some decrease in the price of his supplies has brought him about to a parity with
the rest of the Nation. The crop area of this season is estimated at 370,000,000 acres, which
is a decline of 3,000,000 acres from last year, and 6,000,000 acres from 1919. This has been
a normal and natural application of economic laws, which has placed agriculture on a foundation
which is undeniably sound and beginning to be satisfactory.

A decrease in the world supply of wheat has resulted in a very large increase in the price
of that commodity. The position of all agricultural products indicates a better balanced supply,
but we can not yet conclude that agriculture is recovered from the effects of the war period
or that it is permanently on a prosperous basis. The cattle industry has not yet recovered
and in some sections has been suffering from dry weather. Every effort must be made both by
Government activity and by private agencies to restore and maintain agriculture to a complete
normal relationship with other industries.

It was on account of past depression, and in spite of present more encouraging conditions,
that I have assembled an Agricultural Conference made up of those who are representative of
this great industry in both its operating and economic sides. Everyone knows that the great
need of the farmers is markets. The country is not suffering on the side of production. Almost
the entire difficulty is on the side of distribution. This reaches back, of course, to unit
costs and diversification, and many allied subjects. It is exceedingly intricate, for our domestic
and foreign trade, transportation and banking, and in fact our entire economic system, are
closely related to it. In time for action at this session, I hope to report to the Congress
such legislative remedies as the conference may recommend. An appropriation should be made
to defray their necessary expenses.

MUSCLE SHOALS

The production of nitrogen for plant food in peace and explosives in war is more and more important.
It is one of the chief sustaining elements of life. It is estimated that soil exhaustion each
year is represented by about 9,000,000 tons and replenishment by 5,450,000 tons. The deficit
of 3,550,000 tons is reported to represent the impairment of 118,000,000 acres of farm lands
each year.

To meet these necessities the Government has been developing a water power project at Muscle
Shoals to be equipped to produce nitrogen for explosives and fertilizer. It is my opinion that
the support of agriculture is the chief problem to consider in connection with this property.
It could by no means supply the present needs for nitrogen, but it would help and its development
would encourage bringing other water powers into like use.

Several offers have been made for the purchase of this property. Probably none of them represent
final terms. Much costly experimentation is necessary to produce commercial nitrogen. For that
reason it is a field better suited to private enterprise than to Government operation. I should
favor a sale of this property, or long-time lease, tinder rigid guaranties of commercial nitrogen
production at reasonable prices for agricultural use. There would be a surplus of power for
many years over any possibility of its application to a developing manufacture of nitrogen.
It may be found advantageous to dispose of the right to surplus power separately with such
reservations as will allow its gradual withdrawal and application to nitrogen manufacture.
A subcommittee of the Committees on Agriculture should investigate this field and negotiate
with prospective purchasers. If no advantageous offer be made, the development should continue
and the plant should be dedicated primarily to the production of materials for the fertilization
of the soil.

RAILWAYS

The railways during the past year have made still further progress in recuperation from the
war, with large rains in efficiency and ability expeditiously to handle the traffic of the
country. We have now passed through several periods of peak traffic without the car shortages
which so frequently in the past have brought havoc to our agriculture and industries. The condition
of many of our great freight terminals is still one of difficulty and results in imposing,
large costs on the public for inward-bound freight, and on the railways for outward-bound freight.
Owing to the growth of our large cities and the great increase in the volume of traffic, particularly
in perishables, the problem is not only difficult of solution, but in some cases not wholly
solvable by railway action alone.

In my message last year I emphasized the necessity for further legislation with a view to expediting
the consolidation of our rail ways into larger systems. The principle of Government control
of rates and profits, now thoroughly imbedded in our governmental attitude toward natural monopolies
such as the railways, at once eliminates the need of competition by small units as a method
of rate adjustment. Competition must be preserved as a stimulus to service, but this will exist
and can be increased tinder enlarged systems. Consequently the consolidation of the railways
into larger units for the purpose of securing the substantial values to the public which will
come from larger operation has been the logical conclusion of Congress in its previous enactments,
and is also supported by the best opinion in the country. Such consolidation will assure not
only a greater element of competition as to service, but it will afford economy in operation,
greater stability in railway earnings, and more economical financing. It opens large possibilities
of better equalization of rates between different classes of traffic so as to relieve undue
burdens upon agricultural products and raw materials generally, which are now not possible
without ruin to small units owing to the lack of diversity of traffic. It would also tend to
equalize earnings in such fashion as to reduce the importance of section 15A, at which criticism,
often misapplied, has been directed. A smaller number of units would offer less difficulties
in labor adjustments and would contribute much to the, solution of terminal difficulties.

The consolidations need to be carried out with due regard to public interest and to the rights
and established life of various communities in our country. It does not seem to me necessary
that we endeavor to anticipate any final plan or adhere to an artificial and unchangeable project
which shall stipulate a fixed number of systems, but rather we ought to approach the problem
with such a latitude of action that it can be worked out step by step in accordance with a
comprehensive consideration of public interest. Whether the number of ultimate systems shall
be more or less seems to me can only be determined by time and actual experience in the development
of such consolidations.

Those portions of the present law contemplating consolidations ore not, sufficiently effective
in producing expeditious action and need amplification of the authority of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, particularly in affording a period for voluntary proposals to the commission and
in supplying Government pressure to secure action after the expiration of such a period.

There are other proposals before Congress for amending the transportation acts. One of these
contemplates a revision of the method of valuation for rate-making purposes to be followed
by a renewed valuation of the railways. The valuations instituted by the Interstate Commerce
Commission 10 years ago have not yet been completed. They have cost the Government an enormous
sum, and they have imposed great expenditure upon the railways, most of which has in effect
come out of the public in increased rates. This work should not be abandoned or supplanted
until its results are known and can be considered.

Another matter before the Congress is legislation affecting the labor sections of the transportation
act. Much criticism has been directed at the workings of this section and experience has shown
that some useful amendment could be made to these provisions.

It would be helpful if a plan could be adopted which, while retaining the practice of systematic
collective bargaining with conciliation voluntary arbitration of labor differences, could also
provide simplicity in relations and more direct local responsibility of employees and managers.
But such legislation will not meet the requirements of the situation unless it recognizes the
principle that t e public has a right to the uninterrupted service of transportation, and therefore
a right to be heard when there is danger that the Nation may suffer great injury through the
interruption of operations because of labor disputes. If these elements are not comprehended
in proposed legislation, it would be better to gain further experience with the present organization
for dealing with these questions before undertaking a change.

SHIPPING BOARD

The form of the organization of the Shipping Board was based originally on its functions as
a semi judicial body in regulation of rates. During the war it was loaded with enormous administrative
duties. It has been demonstrated time and again that this form of organization results in indecision,
division of opinion and administrative functions, which make a wholly inadequate foundation
for the conduct of a great business enterprise. The first principle in securing the objective
set out by Congress in building up the American merchant marine upon the great trade routes
and subsequently disposing of it into private operation can not proceed with effectiveness
until the entire functions of the board are reorganized. The immediate requirement is to transfer
into the Emergency Fleet, Corporation the whole responsibility of operation of the fleet and
other property, leaving to the Shipping Board solely the duty of determining certain major
policies which require deliberative action.

The procedure under section 28 of the merchant marine act has created great difficulty and
threatened friction during the past 12 months. Its attempted application developed not only
great opposition from exporters, particularly as to burdens that may be imposed upon agricultural
products, but also great anxiety in the different seaports as to the effect upon their relative
rate structures. This trouble will certainly recur if action is attempted under this section.
It is uncertain in some of its terms and of great difficulty in interpretation.

It is my belief that action under this section should be suspended until the Congress can reconsider
the entire question in the light of the experience that has been developed since its enactment.

NATIONAL ELECTIONS

Nothing is so fundamental to the integrity of a republican form of government as honesty in
all that relates to the conduct of elections. I am of the opinion that the national laws governing
the choice of members of the Congress should be extended to include appropriate representation
of the respective parties at the ballot box ant equality of representation on the various registration
boards, wherever they exist.

THE JUDICIARY

The docket of the Supreme Court is becoming congested. At the opening term last year it had
592 cases, while this year it had 687 cases. Justice long delayed is justice refused. Unless
the court be given power by preliminary and summary consideration to determine the importance
of cases, and by disposing of those which are not of public moment reserve its time for the
more extended consideration of the remainder, the congestion of the docket is likely to increase.
It is also desirable that Supreme Court should have power to improve and reform procedure in
suits at law in the Federal courts through the adoption of appropriate rules. The Judiciary
Committee of the Senate has reported favorably upon two bills providing for these reforms which
should have the immediate favorable consideration of the Congress.

I further recommend that provision be made for the appointment of a commission, to consist
of two or three members of the Federal judiciary and as many members of the bar, to examine
the present criminal code of procedure and recommend to the Congress measures which may reform
and expedite court procedure in the administration and enforcement of our criminal laws.

PRISON REFORM

Pending before the Congress is a bill which has already passed one House providing for a reformatory
to which could be committed first offenders and young men for the purpose of segregating them
from contact with banned criminals and providing them with special training in order to reestablish
in them the power to pursue a law-abiding existence in the social and economic life of the
Nation. This is a matter of so much importance as to warrant the early attention of the present
session. Further provision should also be made, for a like reason, for a separate reformatory
for women.

NATIONAL POLICE BUREAU

Representatives of the International Police Conference will bring to t e attention of the Congress
a proposal for the establishment of a national police bureau. Such action would provide a central
point for gathering, compiling, and later distributing to local police authorities much information
which would be helpful in the prevention and detection of crime. I believe this bureau is needed,
and I recommend favorable consideration of this proposal.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WELFARE

The welfare work of the District of Columbia is administered by several different boards dealing
with charities and various correctional efforts. It would be an improvement if this work were
consolidated and placed under the direction of a single commission.

FRENCH SPOLIATION CLAIMS

During the last session of the Congress legislation was introduced looking to the payment of
the remaining claims generally referred to as the French spoliation claims. The Congress has
provided for the payment of many similar claims. Those that remain unpaid have been long pending.
The beneficiaries thereunder have every reason to expect payment. These claims have been examined
by the Court of Claims and their validity and amount determined. The United States ought to
pay its debts. I recommend action by the Congress which will permit of the payment of these
remaining claims.

THE WAGE EARNER

Two very important policies have been adopted by this country which, while extending their
benefits also in other directions, have been of the utmost importance to the wage earners.
One of these is the protective tariff, which enables our people to live according to a better
standard and receive a better rate of compensation than any people, any time, anywhere on earth,
ever enjoyed. This saves the American market for the products of the American workmen. The
other is a policy of more recent origin and seeks to shield our wage earners from the disastrous
competition of a great influx of foreign peoples. This has been done by the restrictive immigration
law. This saves the American job for the American workmen. I should like to see the administrative
features of this law rendered a little more humane for the purpose of permitting those already
here a greater latitude in securing admission of members of their own families. But I believe
this law in principle is necessary and sound, and destined to increase greatly the public welfare.
We must maintain our own economic position, we must defend our own national integrity.

It is gratifying to report that the progress of industry, the enormous increase in individual
productivity through labor-saving devices, and the high rate of wages have all combined to
furnish our people in general with such an abundance not only of the necessaries but of the
conveniences of life that we are by a natural evolution solving our problems of economic and
social justice.

THE NEGRO

These developments have brought about a very remarkable improvement in the condition of the
negro race. Gradually, but surely, with the almost universal sympathy of those among whom they
live, the colored people are working out their own destiny. I firmly believe that it is better
for all concerned that they should be cheerfully accorded their full constitutional rights,
that they should be protected from all of those impositions to which, from their position,
they naturally fall a prey, especially from the crime of lynching and that they should receive
every encouragement to become full partakers in all the blessings of our common American citizenship.

CIVIL SERVICE

The merit system has long been recognized as the correct basis for employment in our, civil
service. I believe that first second, and third class postmasters, and without covering in
the present membership the field force of prohibition enforcement, should be brought within
the classified service by statute law. Otherwise the Executive order of one administration
is changed by the Executive order of another administration, and little real progress is made.
Whatever its defects, the merit system is certainly to be preferred to the spoils system.

DEPARTMENTAL REORGANIZATION

One way to save public money would be to pass the pending bill for the reorganization of the
various departments. This project has been pending for some time, and has had the most careful
consideration of experts and the thorough study of a special congressional committee. This
legislation is vital as a companion piece to the Budget law. Legal authority for a thorough
reorganization of the Federal structure with some latitude of action to the Executive in the
rearrangement of secondary functions would make for continuing economy in the shift of government
activities which must follow every change in a developing country. Beyond this many of the
independent agencies of the Government must be placed under responsible Cabinet officials,
if we are to have safeguards of efficiency, economy, and probity.

ARMY AND NAVY

Little has developed in relation to our national defense which needs special attention. Progress
is constantly being made in air navigation and requires encouragement and development. Army
aviators have made a successful trip around the world, for which I recommend suitable recognition
through provisions for promotion, compensation, and retirement. Under the direction of the
Navy a new Zeppelin has been successfully brought from Europe across the Atlantic to our own
country.

Due to the efficient supervision of the Secretary of War the Army of the United States has
been organized with a small body of Regulars and a moderate National Guard and Reserve. The
defense test of September 12 demonstrated the efficiency of the operating plans. These methods
and operations are well worthy of congressional support.

Under the limitation of armaments treaty a large saving in outlay and a considerable decrease
in maintenance of the Navy has been accomplished. We should maintain the policy of constantly
working toward the full treaty strength of the Navy. Careful investigation is being made in
this department of the relative importance of aircraft, surface and submarine vessels, in order
that we may not fail to take advantage of all modern improvements for our national defense.
A special commission also is investigating the problem of petroleum oil for the Navy, considering
the best policy to insure the future supply of fuel oil and prevent the threatened drainage
of naval oil reserves. Legislative action is required to carry on experiments in oil shale
reduction, as large deposits of this type have been set aside for the use of the Navy.

We have been constantly besought to engage in competitive armaments. Frequent reports will
reach us of the magnitude of the military equipment of other, nations. We shall do well to
be little impressed by such reports or such actions. Any nation undertaking to maintain a military
establishment with aggressive and imperialistic designs will find itself severely handicapped
in the economic development of the world. I believe thoroughly in the Army and Navy, in adequate
defense and preparation. But I am opposed to any policy of competition in building and maintaining
land or sea armaments.

Our country has definitely relinquished the old standard of dealing with other countries by
terror and force, and is definitely committed to the new standard of dealing with them through
friendship and understanding. This new policy should be constantly kept in mind by the guiding
forces of the Army and Navy, by the. Congress and by the country at large. I believe it holds
a promise of great benefit to humanity. I shall resist any attempt to resort to the old methods
and the old standards. I am especially solicitous that foreign nations should comprehend the
candor and sincerity with which we have adopted this position. While we propose to maintain
defensive and supplementary police forces by land and sea, and to train them through inspections
and maneuvers upon appropriate occasions in order to maintain their efficiency, I wish every
other nation to understand that this does not express any unfriendliness or convey any hostile
intent. I want the armed forces of America to be considered by all peoples not as enemies but
as friends as the contribution which is made by this country for the maintenance of the peace
and security of the world.

VETERANS

With the authorization for general hospitalization of the veterans of all wars provided during
the present year, the care and treatment of those who have served their country in time of
peril and the attitude of the Government toward them is not now so much one of needed legislation
as one of careful, generous and humane administration. It will ever be recognized that their
welfare is of the first concern and always entitled to the most solicitous consideration oil
the part of their fellow citizens. They are organized in various associations, of which the
chief and most representative is the American Legion. Through its officers the Legion will
present to the Congress numerous suggestions for legislation. They cover such a wide variety
of subjects that it is impossible to discuss them within the scope of this message. With many
of the proposals I join in hearty approval and commend them all to the sympathetic investigation
and consideration of the Congress.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

At no period in the past 12 years have our foreign relations been in such a satisfactory condition
as they are at the present time. Our actions in the recent months have greatly strengthened
the American policy of permanent peace with independence. The attitude which our Government
took and maintained toward an adjustment of European reparations, by pointing out that it wits
not a political but a business problem, has demonstrated its wisdom by its actual results.
We desire to see Europe restored that it may resume its productivity in the increase of industry
and its support in the advance of civilization. We look with great gratification at the hopeful
prospect of recuperation in Europe through the Dawes plan. Such assistance as can be given
through the action of the public authorities and of our private citizens, through friendly
counsel and cooperation, and through economic and financial support, not for any warlike effort
but for reproductive enterprise, not to provide means for unsound government financing but
to establish sound business administration should be unhesitatingly provided.

Ultimately nations, like individuals, can not depend upon each other but must depend upon themselves.
Each one must work out its own salvation. We have every desire to help. But with all our resources
we are powerless to save unless our efforts meet with a constructive response. The situation
in our own country and all over the world is one Chat can be improved only by bard work and
self-denial. It is necessary to reduce expenditures, increase savings and liquidate debts.
It is in this direction that there lies the greatest hope of domestic tranquility and international
peace. Our own country ought to finish the leading example in this effort. Our past adherence
to this policy, our constant refusal to maintain a military establishment that could be thought
to menace the security of others, our honorable dealings with other nations whether great or
small, has left us in the almost constant enjoyment of peace.

It is not necessary to stress the general desire of all the people of this country for the
promotion of peace. It is the leading principle of all our foreign relations. We have on every
occasion tried to cooperate to this end in all ways that were consistent with our proper independence
and our traditional policies. It will be my constant effort to maintain these principles, and
to reinforce them by all appropriate agreements and treaties. While we desire always to cooperate
and to help, we are equally determined to be independent and free. Right and truth and justice
and humanitarian efforts will have the moral support of this country all over the world. But
we do not wish to become involved in the political controversies of others. Nor is the country
disposed to become a member of the League of Nations or to assume the obligations imposed by
its covenant.

INTERNATIONAL COURT

America has been one of the foremost nations in advocating tribunals for the settlement of
international disputes of a justiciable character. Our representatives took a leading in those
conferences which resulted in the establishment of e ague Tribunal, and later in providing
for a Permanent Court of International Justice. I believe it would be for the advantage of
this country and helpful to the stability of other nations for us to adhere to the protocol
establishing, that court upon the conditions stated in the recommendation which is now before
the Senate, and further that our country shall not be bound by advisory opinions which may
be, rendered by the court upon questions which we have not voluntarily submitted for its judgment.
This court would provide a practical and convenient tribunal before which we could go voluntarily,
but to which we could not be summoned, for a determination of justiciable questions when they
fail to be resolved by diplomatic negotiations.

DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE

Many times I have expressed my desire to see the work of the Washington Conference on Limitation
of Armaments appropriately supplemented by further agreements for a further reduction M for
the purpose of diminishing the menace and waste of the competition in preparing instruments
of international war. It has been and is my expectation that we might hopefully approach other
great powers for further conference on this subject as soon as the carrying out of the present
reparation plan as the established and settled policy of Europe has created a favorable opportunity.
But on account of proposals which have already been made by other governments for a European
conference, it will be necessary to wait to see what the outcome of their actions may be. I
should not wish to propose or have representatives attend a conference which would contemplate
commitments opposed to the freedom of action we desire to maintain unimpaired with respect
to our purely domestic policies.

INTERNATIONAL LAW

Our country should also support efforts which are being made toward the codification of international
law. We can look more hopefully, in the first instance, for research and studies that are likely
to be productive of results, to a cooperation among representatives of the bar and members
of international law institutes and societies, than to a conference of those who are technically
representative of their respective governments, although, when projects have been developed,
they must go to the governments for their approval. These expert professional studies are going
on in certain quarters and should have our constant encouragement and approval.

OUTLAW OF WAR

Much interest has of late been manifested in this country in the discussion of various proposals
to outlaw aggressive war. I look with great sympathy upon the examination of this subject.
It is in harmony with the traditional policy of our country, which is against aggressive war
and for the maintenance of permanent and honorable peace. While, as I have said, we must safeguard
our liberty to deal according to our own judgment with our domestic policies, we can not fail
to view with sympathetic interest all progress to this desired end or carefully to study the
measures that may be proposed to attain it.

LATIN AMERICA

While we are desirous of promoting peace in every quarter of the globe, we have a special interest
in the peace of this hemisphere. It is our constant desire that all causes of dispute in this
area may be tranquilly and satisfactorily adjusted. Along with our desire for peace is the
earnest hope for the increased prosperity of our sister republics of Latin America, and our
constant purpose to promote cooperation with them which may be mutually beneficial and always
inspired by the most cordial friendships.

FOREIGN DEBTS

About $12,000,000,000 is due to our Government from abroad, mostly from European Governments.
Great Britain, Finland, Hungary, Lithuania and Poland have negotiated settlements amounting
close to $5,000,000,000. This represents the funding of over 42 per cent of the debt since
the creation of the special Foreign Debt Commission. As the life of this commission is about
to expire, its term should be extended. I am opposed to the cancellation of these debts and
believe it for the best welfare of the world that they should be liquidated and paid as fast
as possible. I do not favor oppressive measures, but unless money that is borrowed is repaid
credit can not be secured in time of necessity, and there exists besides a moral obligation
which our country can not ignore and no other country can evade. Terms and conditions may have
to conform to differences in the financial abilities of the countries concerned, but the principle
that each country should meet its obligation admits of no differences and is of universal application.

It is axiomatic that our country can not stand still. It would seem to be perfectly plain from
recent events that it is determined to go forward. But it wants no pretenses, it wants no vagaries.
It is determined to advance in an orderly, sound and common-sense way. It does not propose
to abandon the theory of the Declaration that the people have inalienable rights which no majority
and no power of government can destroy. It does not propose to abandon the practice of the
Constitution that provides for the protection of these rights. It believes that within these
limitations, which are imposed not by the fiat of man but by the law of the Creator, self-government
is just and wise. It is convinced that it will be impossible for the people to provide their
own government unless they continue to own their own property.

These are the very foundations of America. On them has been erected a Government of freedom
and equality, of justice and mercy, of education and charity. Living under it and supporting
it the people have come into great possessions on the material and spiritual sides of life.
I want to continue in this direction. I know that the Congress shares with me that desire.
I want our institutions to be more and more expressive of these principles. I want the people
of all the earth to see in the American flag the symbol of a Government which intends no oppression
at home and no aggression abroad, which in the spirit of a common brotherhood provides assistance
in time of distress.

***

State of the Union Address Calvin Coolidge December 8, 1925

Members of the Congress:

In meeting the constitutional requirement of informing the Congress upon the state of the Union,
it is exceedingly gratifying to report that the general condition is one of progress and prosperity.
Here and there are comparatively small and apparently temporary difficulties needing adjustment
and improved administrative methods, such as are always to be expected, but in the fundamentals
of government and business the results demonstrate that we are going in the right direction.
The country does not appear to require radical departures from the policies already adopted
so much as it needs a further extension of these policies and the improvement of details. The
age of perfection is still in the somewhat distant future, but it is more in danger of being
retarded by mistaken Government activity than it is from lack of legislation. We are by far
the most likely to accomplish permanent good if we proceed with moderation.

In our country the people are sovereign and independent, and must accept the resulting responsibilities.
It is their duty to support themselves and support the Government. That is the business of
the Nation, whatever the charity of the Nation may require. The functions which the Congress
are to discharge are not those of local government but of National Government. The greatest
solicitude should be exercised to prevent any encroachment upon the rights of the States or
their various political subdivisions. Local self-government is one of our most precious possessions.
It is the greatest contributing factor to the stability strength liberty, and progress of the
Nation. It ought not to be in ringed by assault or undermined by purchase. It ought not to
abdicate its power through weakness or resign its authority through favor. It does not at all
follow that because abuses exist it is the concern of the Federal Government to attempt the
r reform.

Society is in much more danger from encumbering the National Government beyond its wisdom to
comprehend, or its ability to administer, than from leaving the local communities to bear their
own burdens and remedy their own evils. Our local habit and custom is so strong, our variety
of race and creed is so great the Federal authority is so tenuous, that the area within which
it can function successfully is very limited. The wiser policy is to leave the localities,
so far as we can, possessed of their own sources of revenue and charged with their own obligations.

GOVERNMENT ECONOMY

It is a fundamental principle of our country that the people are sovereign. While they recognize
the undeniable authority of the state, they have established as its instrument a Government
of limited powers. They hold inviolate in their own hands the jurisdiction over their own freedom
and the ownership of their own property. Neither of these can be impaired except by due process
of law. The wealth of our country is not public wealth, but private wealth. It does not belong
to the Government, it belongs to the people. The Government has no justification in taking
private Property except for a public purpose. It is always necessary to keep these principles
in mind in the laying of taxes and in the making of appropriations. No right exists to levy
on a dollar, or to order the expenditure of a dollar, of the money of the people, except for
a necessary public purpose duly authorized by the Constitution. The power over the purse is
the power over liberty.

That is the legal limitation within which the Congress can act, How it will, proceed within
this limitation is always a question of policy. When the country is prosperous and free from
debt, when the rate of taxation is low, opportunity exists for assuming new burdens and undertaking
new enterprises. Such a condition now prevails only to a limited extent. All proposals for
assuming new obligations ought to be postponed, unless they are reproductive capital investments
or are such as are absolutely necessary at this time. We still have an enormous debt of over
$20,000,000,000, on which the interest and sinking-fund requirements are $1,320,000,000. Our
appropriations for the Pension Office and the Veterans' Bureau are $600,000,000. The War and
Navy Departments call for $642,000,000. Other requirements, exclusive of the Post Office which
is virtually self-sustaining, brought the appropriations for the current year up to almost
$3,100,060,000. This shows an expenditure of close to $30 for every inhabitant of our country.
For the average family of five it means a tax, directly or indirectly paid, of about $150 for
national purposes alone. The local tax adds much more. These enormous expenditures ought not
to be increased, but through every possible effort they ought to be reduced.

Only one of these great items can be ultimately extinguished. That is the item of our war debt.
Already this has been reduced to about $6,000,000,000, which means an annual saving in interest
of close to $250,000,000. The present interest charge is about $820,000,000 yearly. It would
seem to be obvious that the sooner this debt can be retired the more the taxpayers will save
in interest and the easier it will be to secure funds with which to prosecute needed running
expenses, constructions, and improvements. This item of $820,000,000 for interest is a heavy
charge on all the people of the country, and it seems to me that we might well consider whether
it is not greatly worth while to dispense with it as early as possible by retiring the principal
debt which it is required to serve.

It has always been our policy to retire our debts. That of the Revolutionary War period, notwithstanding
the additions made in 1812, was paid by 1835. and the Civil War debt within 23 years. Of the
amount already paid, over $1,000,000,000 is a reduction in cash balances. That source is exhausted.
Over one and two-thirds billions of dollars was derived from excess receipts. Tax reduction
eliminates that. The sale of surplus war materials has been another element of our income.
That is practically finished. With these eliminated, the reduction of the debt has been only
about $500,000,000 each year, not an excessive sum on so large a debt.

Proposals have been made to extend the payment over a period of 62 years. If $1,000,000,000
is paid at the end of 20 years, the cost to the taxpayers is the principal and, if the interest
is 4% per cent, a total of $1,850,000,000. If the same sum is paid at the end of 62 years,
the cost is $3,635,000,000, or almost double. Here is another consideration: Compared with
its purchasing power in 1913, the dollar we borrowed represented but 52 cents. As the value
of our dollar increases, due to the falling prices of commodities, the burden of our debt increases.
It has now risen to 631/2 cents. The taxpayer will be required to produce nearly twice the
amount of commodities to pay his debt if the dollar returns to the 1913 value. The more we
pay while prices are high, the easier it will be.

Deflation of government after a war period is slower than deflation of business, where curtailment
is either prompt and effective or disaster follows. There is room for further economy in the
cost of the Federal Government, but a co n of current expenditures with pre-war expenditures
is not able to the efficiency with which Government business is now being done. The expenditures
of 19161 the last pre-war year, were $742,000,000, and in 1925 over $3,500,000,000, or nearly
five times as great. If we subtract expenditures for debt retirements and interest, veterans'
relief, increase of pensions, and other special outlays, consisting of refunds, trust investments,
and like charges, we find that the general expenditures of the Government in 1925 were slightly
more than twice as large as in 1916.

As prices in 1925 were approximately 40 per cent higher than in 1916, the cost of the same
Government must also have increased. But the Government is not the same. It is more expensive
to collect the much greater revenue necessary and to administer our great debt. We have given
enlarged and improved services to agriculture and commerce. Above all, America has grown in
population and wealth. Government expenditures must always share in this growth. Taking into
account the factors I have mentioned, I believe that present Federal expenses are not far out
of line with pre-war expenses. We have nearly accomplished the deflation.

This does not mean that further economies will not come. As we reduce our debt our interest
charges decline. There are many details yet to correct. The real improvement, however, must
come not from additional curtailment of expenses, but by a more intelligent, more ordered spending.
Our economy must be constructive. While we should avoid as far as possible increases in permanent
current expenditures, oftentimes a capital outlay like internal improvements will result in
actual constructive saving. That is economy in its best sense. It is an avoidance of waste
that there may be the means for an outlay to-day which will bring larger returns to-morrow.
We should constantly engage in scientific studies of our future requirements and adopt an orderly
program for their service. Economy is the method by which we prepare to-day to afford the improvements
of to-morrow.

A mere policy of economy without any instrumentalities for putting it into operation would
be very ineffective. The Congress has wisely set up the Bureau of the Budget to investigate
and inform the President what recommendations he ought to make for current appropriations.
This gives a centralized authority where a general and comprehensive understanding can be reached
of the sources of income and the most equitable distribution of expenditures. How well it has
worked is indicated by the fact that the departmental estimates for 1922, before the budget
law, were $4,068,000,000 while the Budget estimates for 1927 are $3,156,000,000. This latter
figure shows the reductions in departmental estimates for the coming year made possible by
the operation of the Budget system that the Congress has provided.

But it is evidently not enough to have care in making appropriations without any restraint
upon expenditure. The Congress has provided that check by establishing the office of Comptroller
General.

The purpose of maintaining the Budget Director and the Comptroller General is to secure economy
and efficiency in Government expenditure. No better method has been devised for the accomplishment
of that end. These offices can not be administered in all the various details without making
some errors both of fact and of judgment. But the important consideration remains that these
are the instrumentalities of the Congress and that no other plan has ever been adopted which
was so successful in promoting economy and efficiency. The Congress has absolute authority
over the appropriations and is free to exercise its judgment, as the evidence may warrant,
in increasing or decreasing budget recommendations. But it ought to resist every effort to
weaken or break down this most beneficial system of supervising appropriations and expenditures.
Without it all the claim of economy would be a mere pretense.

TAXATION

The purpose of reducing expenditures is to secure a reduction in taxes. That purpose is about
to be realized. With commendable promptness the Ways and Means Committee of the House has undertaken
in advance of the meeting of the Congress to frame a revenue act. As the bill has proceeded
through the committee it has taken on a nonpartisan character, and both Republicans and Democrats
have joined in a measure which embodies many sound principles of tax reform. The bill will
correct substantially the economic defects injected into the revenue act of 1924, as well as
many which have remained as war-time legacies. In its present form it should provide sufficient
revenue for the Government.

The excessive surtaxes have been reduced, estate tax rates are restored to more reasonable
figures, with every prospect of withdrawing from the field when the States have had the opportunity
to correct the abuses in their own inheritance tax laws, the gift tax and publicity section
are to be repealed many miscellaneous taxes are lowered or abandoned, and the Board of Tax
Appeals and the administrative features of the law are improved and strengthened. I approve
of the bill in principle. In so far as income-tax exemptions are concerned, it seems, to me
the committee has gone as far as it is Safe to go and somewhat further than I should have gone.
Any further extension along these lines would, in my opinion, impair the integrity of our income-tax
system.

I am advised that the bill will be through the House by Christmas. For this prompt action the
country call thank the good sense of the Ways and Means Committee in framing an economic measure
upon economic considerations. If this attitude continues to be reflected through the Congress,
the taxpayer will have his relief by the time his March 15th installment of income taxes is
due. Nonpartisan effort means certain, quick action. Determination of a revenue law definitely,
promptly and solely as a revenue law, is one of the greatest gifts a legislature can bestow
upon its constituents. I commend the example of file Ways and Means Committee. If followed,
it will place sound legislation upon the books in time to give the taxpayers the full benefit
of tax reduction next year. This means that the bill should reach me prior to March 15.

All these economic results are being sought not to benefit the rich, but to benefit the people.
They are for the purpose of encouraging industry in order that employment may be plentiful.
They seek to make business good in order that wages may be good. They encourage prosperity
in order that poverty may be banished from the home. They, seek to lay the foundation which,
through increased production, may, give the people a more bountiful supply of the necessaries
of life, afford more leisure for the improvement of the mind, the appreciation of the arts
of music and literature, sculpture and painting, and the beneficial enjoyment of outdoor sports
and recreation, enlarge the resources which minister to charity and by all these means attempting
to strengthen the spiritual life of the Nation.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

The policy of our foreign relations, casting aside any suggestion of force, rests solely on
the foundation of peace, good will, and good works. We have sought, in our intercourse with
other nations, better understandings through conference and exchange of views its befits beings
endowed with reason. The results have been the gradual elimination of disputes, the settlement
of controversies, and the establishment of a firmer friendship between America and the rest
of the world that has ever existed tit any previous time.

The example of this attitude has not been without its influence upon other countries. Acting
upon it, an adjustment was made of the difficult problem of reparations. This was the second
step toward peace in Europe. It paved the way for the agreements which were drawn up at the
Locarno Conference. When ratified, these will represent the third step toward peace. While
they do not of themselves provide an economic rehabilitation, which is necessary for the progress
of Europe, by strengthening the guarantees of peace they diminish the need for great armaments.
If the energy which now goes into military effort is transferred to productive endeavor it
will greatly assist economic progress.

The Locarno agreements were made by the, European countries directly interested without any
formal intervention of America, although on July 3 I publicly advocated such agreements in
an address made in Massachusetts. We have consistently refrained from intervening except when
our help has been sought and we have felt it could be effectively given, as in the settlement
of reparations and the London Conference. These recent Locarno agreements represent the success
of this policy which we have been insisting ought to be adopted, of having European countries
settle their own political problems without involving this country. This beginning seems to
demonstrate that this policy is sound. It is exceedingly gratifying to observe this progress,
both in its method and in its result promises so much that is beneficial to the world.

When these agreements are finally adopted, they will provide guarantees of peace that make
the present prime reliance upon force in some parts of Europe very much less necessary. The
natural corollary to these treaties should be further international contracts for the limitation
of armaments. This work was successfully begun at the Washington Conference. Nothing was done
at that time concerning land forces because of European objection. Our standing army has been
reduced to around 118,000, about the necessary police force for 115,000,000 people. We are
not proposing to increase it, nor is it supposable that any foreign country looks with the
slightest misapprehension upon our land forces. They do not menace anybody. They are rather
a protection to everybody.

The question of disarming upon land is so peculiarly European in its practical aspects that
our country would look with particular gratitude upon any action which those countries might
take to reduce their own military forces. This is in accordance with our policy of not intervening
unless the European powers are unable to agree and make request for our assistance. Whenever
they are able to agree of their own accord it is especially gratifying to its, and such agreements
may be sure of our sympathetic support.

It seems clear that it is the reduction of armies rather than of navies that is of the first
importance to the world at the present time. We shall look with great satisfaction upon that
effort and give it our approbation and encouragement. If that can be settled, we may more easily
consider further reduction and limitation of naval armaments. For that purpose our country
has constantly through its Executive, and through repeated acts of Congress, indicated its
willingness to call such a conference. Under congressional sanction it would seem to be wise
to participate in any conference of the great powers for naval limitation of armament proposed
upon such conditions that it would hold a fair promise of being effective. The general policy
of our country is for disarmament, and it ought not to hesitate to adopt any practical plan
that might reasonably be expected to succeed. But it would not care to attend a conference
which from its location or constituency would in all probability prove futile.

In the further pursuit, of strengthening the bonds of peace and good will we have joined with
other nations in an international conference held at Geneva and signed an agreement which will
be laid before the Senate for ratification providing suitable measures for control and for
publicity in international trade in arms, ammunition, and implements of war, and also executed
a protocol providing for a prohibition of the use of poison gas in war, in accordance with
the principles of Article 5 of the treaty relating thereto signed at the Washington Conference.
We are supporting the Pan American efforts that are being made toward the codification of international
law, and looking with sympathy oil the investigations conducted under philanthropic auspices
of the proposal to agreements outlawing war. In accordance with promises made at the Washington
Conference, we have urged the calling of and are now represented at the Chinese Customs Conference
and on the Commission on Extraterritoriality, where it will be our policy so far as possible
to meet the, aspirations of China in all ways consistent with the interests of the countries
involved.

COURT OF INTERNATIONAL JUSTICE

Pending before the Senate for nearly three years is the proposal to adhere to the protocol
establishing the Permanent Court of International Justice. A well-established line of precedents
mark America's effort to effect the establishment of it court of this nature.. We took a leading
part in laying the foundation on which it rests in the establishment of The Hague Court of
Arbitration. It is that tribunal which nominates the judges who are elected by the Council
and Assembly of the League of Nations.

The proposal submitted to the Senate was made dependent upon four conditions, the first of
which is that by supporting the court we do not assume any obligations under the league; second,
that we may participate upon an equality with other States in the election of judges; third,
that the Congress shall determine what part of the expenses we shall bear; fourth, that the
statute creating the court shall not be amended without out consent; and to these I have proposed
an additional condition to the effect that we are not to be bound by advisory opinions rendered
without our consent.

The court appears to be independent of the league. It is true the judges are elected by the
Assembly and Council, but they are nominated by the Court of Arbitration, which we assisted
to create and of which we are a part. The court was created by it statute, so-called, which
is really a treaty made among some forty-eight different countries, that might properly be
called a constitution of the court. This statute provides a method by which the judges are
chosen so that when the Court of Arbitration nominates them and the Assembly and Council of
the League elect them, they are not acting as instruments of the Court of Arbitration or instruments
of the league, but as instruments of the statute.

This will be even more apparent if our representatives sit with the members of the council
and assembly in electing the judges. It is true they are paid through the league though not
by the league, but by the countries which are members of the league and by our country if we
accept the protocol. The judges are paid by the league only in the same sense that it could
be said United States judges are paid by the Congress. The court derives all its authority
from the statute and is so completely independent of the league that it could go on functioning
if the league were disbanded, at least until the terms of the judges expired.

The most careful provisions are made in the statute as to the qualifications of judges. Those
who make the nominations are recommended to consult with their highest court of justice, their
law schools and academies. The judges must be persons of high moral character, qualified to
hold the highest judicial offices in that country, or be jurisconsults of recognized competence
in international law. It must be assumed that these requirements will continue to be carefully
met, and with America joining the countries already concerned it is difficult to comprehend
how human ingenuity could better provide for the establishment of a court which would maintain
its independence. It has to be recognized that independence is to a considerable extent a matter
of ability, character, and personality. Some effort was made in the early beginnings to interfere
with the independence of our Supreme Court. It did not succeed because of the quality of the
men who made up that tribunal.

It does not seem that the authority to give advisory opinions interferes with the independence
of the court. Advisory opinions in and of themselves are not harmful, but may be used in such
a way as to be very beneficial because they undertake to prevent injury rather than merely
afford a remedy after the injury has been done. As a principle that only implies that the court
shall function when proper application is made to it. Deciding the question involved upon issues
submitted for an advisory opinion does not differ materially from deciding the question involved
upon issues submitted by contending parties. Up to the present time the court has given an
advisory opinion when it judged it had jurisdiction, and refused to give one when it judged
it did not have jurisdiction. Nothing in the work of the court has yet been an indication that
this is an impairment of its independence or that its practice differs materially from the
giving of like opinions under the authority of the constitutions of several of our States.

No provision of the statute seems to me to give this court any authority to be a political
rather than a judicial court. We have brought cases in this country before our courts which,
when they have been adjudged to be political, have been thereby dismissed. It is not improbable
that political questions will be submitted to this court, but again up to the present time
the court has refused to pass on political questions and our support would undoubtedly have
a tendency to strengthen it in that refusal.

We are not proposing to subject ourselves to any compulsory jurisdiction. If we support the
court, we can never be obliged to submit any case which involves our interests for its decision.
Our appearance before it would always be voluntary, for the purpose of presenting a case which
we had agreed might be presented. There is no more danger that others might bring cases before
the court involving our interests which we did not wish to have brought, after we have adhered,
and probably not so much, than there would be of bringing such cases if we do not adhere. I
think that we would have the same legal or moral right to disregard such a finding in the one
case that we would in the other.

If we are going to support any court, it will not be one that we have set up alone or which
reflects only our ideals. Other nations have their customs and their institutions, their thoughts
and their methods of life. If a court is going to be international, its composition will have
to yield to what is good in all these various elements. Neither will it be possible to support
a court which is exactly perfect, or under which we assume absolutely no obligations. If we
are seeking that opportunity, we might as well declare that we are opposed to supporting any
court. If any agreement is made, it will be because it undertakes to set up a tribunal which
can do some of the things that other nations wish to have done. We shall not find ourselves
bearing a disproportionate share of the world's burdens by our adherence, and we may as well
remember that there is absolutely no escape for our country from bearing its share of the world's
burdens in any case. We shall do far better service to ourselves and to others if we admit
this and discharge our duties voluntarily, than if we deny it and are forced to meet the same
obligations unwillingly.

It is difficult to imagine anything that would be more helpful to the world than stability,
tranquility and international justice. We may say that we are contributing to these factors
independently, but others less fortunately located do not and can not make a like contribution
except through mutual cooperation. The old balance of power, mutual alliances, and great military
forces were not brought bout by any mutual dislike for independence, but resulted from the
domination of circumstances. Ultimately they were forced on us. Like all others engaged in
the war whatever we said as a matter of fact we joined an alliance, we became a military power,
we impaired our independence. We have more at stake than any one else in avoiding a repetition
of that calamity. Wars do not, spring into existence. They arise from small incidents and trifling
irritations which can be adjusted by an international court. We can contribute greatly to the
advancement of our ideals by joining with other nations in maintaining such a tribunal.

FOREIGN DEBTS

Gradually, settlements have been made which provide for the liquidation of debts due to our
Government from foreign governments. Those made with Great Britain, Finland, Hungary Lithuania,
and Poland have already been approved by the Congress. Since the adjournment, further agreements
have been entered into with Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Latvia, Estonia, Italy, and Rumania. These
11 nations, which have already made settlements, represent $6,419,528,641 of the original principal
of the loans. The principal sums without interest, still pending, are the debt of France, of
$3,340,000,000; Greece, $15,000,000; Yugoslavia, $.51,000,000; Liberia, $26,000; Russia, $192,000,000,
which those at present in control have undertaken, openly to repudiate; Nicaragua, $84,000,
which is being paid currently; and Austria, $24,000,000, on which by act of Congress a moratorium
of 20 years has been granted. The only remaining sum is $12,000,000, due from Armenia, which
has now ceased to exist as an independent nation.

In accordance with the settlements made, the amount of principal and interest which is to be
paid to the United States under these agreements aggregate $15,200,688,253.93. It is obvious
that the remaining settlements, which will undoubtedly be made, will bring this sum up to an
amount which will more than equal the principal due on our present national debt. While these
settlements are very large in the aggregate, it has been felt that the terms granted were in
all cases very generous. They impose no undue burden and are mutually beneficial in the observance
of international faith and the improvement of international credit.

Every reasonable effort will be made to secure agreements for liquidation with the remaining
countries, whenever they are in such condition that they can be made. Those which have already
been negotiated under the bipartisan commission established by the Congress have been made
only after the most thoroughgoing and painstaking investigation, continued for a long time
before meeting with the representatives of the countries concerned. It is believed that they
represent in each instance the best that can be done and the wisest settlement that can be
secured. One very important result is the stabilization of foreign currency, making exchange
assist rather than embarrass our trade. Wherever sacrifices have been made of money, it will
be more than amply returned in better understanding and friendship, while in so far as these
adjustments will contribute to the financial stability of the debtor countries, to their good
order, prosperity, and progress, they represent hope of improved trade relations and mutual
contributions to the civilization of the world.

ALIEN PROBLEM

Negotiations are progressing among the interested parties in relation to the final distribution
of the assets in the hands of the Alien Property Custodian. Our Government and people are interested
as creditors; the German Government and people are interested as debtors and owners of the
seized property. Pending the outcome of these negotiations, I do not recommend any affirmative
legislation. For the present we should continue in possession of this property which we hold
as security for the settlement of claims due to our people and our Government.

IMMIGRATION

While not enough time has elapsed to afford a conclusive demonstration, such results as have
been secured indicate that our immigration law is on the whole beneficial. It is undoubtedly
a protection to the wage earners of this country. The situation should however, be carefully
surveyed, in order to ascertain whether it is working a needless hardship upon our own inhabitants.
If it deprives them of the comfort and society of those bound to them by close family ties,
such modifications should be adopted as will afford relief, always in accordance with the principle
that our Government owes its first duty to our own people and that no alien, inhabitant of
another country, has any legal rights whatever under our Constitution and laws. It is only
through treaty, or through residence here that such rights accrue. But we should not, however,
be forgetful of the obligations of a common humanity.

While our country numbers among its best citizens many of those of foreign birth, yet those
who now enter in violation of our laws by that very act thereby place themselves in a class
of undesirables. Investigation reveals that any considerable number are coming here in defiance
of our immigration restrictions, it will undoubtedly create the necessity for the registration
of all aliens. We ought to have no prejudice against an alien because he is an alien. The standard
which we apply to our inhabitants is that of manhood, not place of birth. Restrictive immigration
is to a large degree for economic purposes. It is applied in order that we may not have a larger
annual increment of good people within our borders than we can weave into our economic fabric
in such a way as to supply their needs without undue injury to ourselves.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

Never before in time of peace has our country maintained so large and effective a military
force as it now has. The Army, Navy, Marine Corps, National Guard, and Organized Reserves represent
a strength of about 558,400 men. These forces are well trained, well equipped, and high in morale.

A sound selective service act giving broad authority for the mobilization in time of peril
of all the resources of the country, both persons and materials, is needed to perfect our defense
policy in accordance with our ideals of equality. The provision for more suitable housing to
be paid for out of funds derived from the sale of excess lands, pending before the last Congress,
ought to be brought forward and passed. Reasonable replacements ought to be made to maintain
a sufficient ammunition reserve.

The Navy has the full treaty tonnage of capital ships. Work is going forward in modernizing
the older ones, building aircraft carriers, additional fleet submarines, and fast scout cruisers,
but we are carefully avoiding anything that might be construed as a competition in armaments
with other nations. The joint Army and Navy maneuvers at Hawaii, followed by the cruise of
a full Battle Fleet to Australia and New Zealand, were successfully carried out. These demonstrations
revealed a most satisfactory condition of the ships and the men engaged.

Last year at my suggestion the General Board of the Navy made an investigation and report on
the relation of aircraft to warships. As a result authorizations and appropriations were made
for more scout cruisers and fleet submarines and for completing aircraft carriers and equipping
them with necessary planes. Additional training in aviation was begun at the Military and Naval
Academies. A method of coordination and cooperation of the Army and Navy and the principal
aircraft builders is being perfected. At the suggestion of the Secretaries of War and Navy
I appointed a special board to make a further study of the problem of aircraft.

The report of the Air Board ought to be reassuring to the country, gratifying to the service
and satisfactory to the Congress. It is thoroughly complete and represents the mature thought
of the best talent in the country. No radical change in organization of the service seems necessary.
The Departments of War, Navy, and Commerce should each be provided with an additional assistant
secretary, not necessarily with statutory duties but who would be available under the direction
of the Secretary to give especial attention to air navigation. We must have an air strength
worthy of America. Provision should be made for two additional brigadier generals for the Army
Air Service. Temporary rank corresponding to their duties should be awarded to active flying
officers in both Army and Navy.

Aviation is of great importance both for national defense and commercial development. We ought
to proceed in its improvement by the necessary experiment and investigation. Our country is
not behind in this art. It has made records for speed and for the excellence of its planes.
It ought to go on maintaining its manufacturing plants capable of rapid production, giving
national assistance to the la in out of airways, equipping itself with a moderate number of
planes and keeping an air force trained to the highest efficiency.

While I am a thorough believer in national defense and entirely committed to the policy of
adequate preparation, I am just as thoroughly opposed to instigating or participating in a
policy of competitive armaments. Nor does preparation mean a policy of militarizing. Our people
and industries are solicitous for the cause of 0111, country, and have great respect for the
Army and Navy and foil the uniform worn by the men who stand ready at all times for our protection
to encounter the dangers and perils necessary to military service, but all of these activities
are to be taken not in behalf of aggression but in behalf of peace. They are the instruments
by which we undertake to do our part to promote good will and support stability among all peoples.

VETERANS

If any one desires to estimate the esteem in which the veterans of America are held by their
fellow citizens, it is but necessary to remember that the current budget calls for an expenditure
of about $650,000.000 in their behalf. This is nearly the amount of the total cost of the National
Government, exclusive of the post office, before we entered the last war.

At the two previous sessions of Congress legislation affecting veterans' relief was enacted
and the law liberalized. This legislation brought into being a number of new provisions tending
more nearly to meet the needs of our veterans, as well as afford the necessary authority to
perfect the administration of these laws.

Experience with the new legislation so far has clearly demonstrated its constructive nature.
It has increased the benefits received by many and has made eligible for benefits many others.
Direct disbursements to the veteran or his dependents exceeding $21,000,000 have resulted,
which otherwise would not have been made. The degree of utilization of our hospitals has increased
through making facilities available to the incapacitated veteran regardless of service origin
of the disability. This new legislation also has brought about a marked improvement of service
to the veteran.

The organizations of ex-service men have proposed additional legislative changes which you
will consider, but until the new law and the modifications made at the last session of Congress
are given a more thorough test further changes in the basic law should be few and made only
after careful though sympathetic consideration.

The principal work now before the Veterans' Bureau is the perfection of its organization and
further improvements in service. Some minor legislative changes are deemed necessary to enable
the bureau to retain that high grade of professional talent essential in handling the problems
of the bureau. Such changes as tend toward the improvement of service and the carrying forward
to completion of the hospital construction program are recommended for the consideration of
the proper committees of Congress.

With the enormous outlay that is now being made in behalf of the veterans and their dependents,
with a tremendous war debt still requiring great annual expenditure, with the still high rate
of taxation, while every provision should be made for the relief of the disabled and the necessary
care of dependents, the Congress may well consider whether the financial condition of the Government
is not such that further bounty through the enlargement of general pensions and other emoluments
ought not to be postponed.

AGRICULTURE

No doubt the position of agriculture as a whole has very much improved since the depression
of three and four years ago. But there are many localities and many groups of individuals,
apparently through no fault of their own, sometimes due to climatic conditions and sometimes
to the prevailing price of a certain crop, still in a distressing condition. This is probably
temporary, but it is none the less acute. National Government agencies, the Departments of
Agriculture and Commerce, the Farm Loan Board, the intermediate credit banks, and the Federal
Reserve Board are all cooperating to be of assistance and relief. On the other hand, there
are localities and individuals who have had one of their most prosperous years. The general
price level is fair, but here again there are exceptions both ways, some items being poor while
others are excellent. In spite of a lessened production the farm income for this year will
be about the same as last year and much above the three preceding years.

Agriculture is a very complex industry. It does not consist of one problem, but of several.
They can not be solved at one stroke. They have to be met in different ways, and small gains
are not to be despised.

It has appeared from all the investigations that I have been able to make that the farmers
as a whole are determined to maintain the independence of their business. They do not wish
to have meddling on the part of the Government or to be placed under the inevitable restrictions
involved in any system of direct or indirect price-fixing, which would result from permitting
the Government to operate in the agricultural markets. They are showing a very commendable
skill in organizing themselves to transact their own business through cooperative marketing,
which will this year turn over about $2,500,000,000, or nearly one-fifth of the total agricultural
business. In this they are receiving help from the Government. The Department of Agriculture
should be strengthened in this facility, in order to be able to respond when these marketing
associations want help. While it ought not to undertake undue regulation, it should be equipped
to give prompt information on crop prospects, supply, demand, current receipts, imports, exports,
and prices.

A bill embodying these principles, which has been drafted under the advice and with the approval
of substantially all the leaders and managers in the cooperative movement, will be presented
to the Congress for its enactment. Legislation should also be considered to provide for leasing
the unappropriated public domain for grazing purposes and adopting a uniform policy relative
to grazing on the public lands and in the national forests.

A more intimate relation should be established between agriculture and the other business activities
of the Nation. They are mutually dependent and can each advance their own prosperity most by
advancing the prosperity of the other. Meantime the Government will continue those activities
which have resulted in an unprecedented amount of legislation and the pouring out of great
sums of money during the last five years. The work for good roads, better land and water transportation,
increased support for agricultural education, extension of credit facilities through the Farm
Loan Boards and the intermediate credit banks, the encouragement of orderly marketing and a
repression of wasteful speculation, will all be continued.

Following every other depression, after a short period the price of farm produce has taken
and maintained the lead in the advance. This advance had reached a climax before the war. Everyone
will recall the discussion that went on for four or five years prior to 1914 concerning the
high cost of living. This history is apparently beginning to repeat itself. While wholesale
prices of other commodities have been declining, farm prices have been increasing. There is
every reason to suppose that a new era in agricultural prosperity lies just before us, which
will probably be unprecedented.

MUSCLE SHOALS

The problem of Muscle Shoals seems to me to have assumed a place all out of proportion with
its real importance. It probably does not represent in market value much more than a first-class
battleship, yet it has been discussed in the Congress over a period of years and for months
at a time. It ought to be developed for the production of nitrates primarily, and incidentally
for power purposes. This would serve defensive, agricultural, and industrial purposes. I am
in favor of disposing of this property to meet these purposes. The findings of the special
commission will be transmitted to the Congress for their information. I am convinced that the
best possible disposition can be made by direct authorization of the Congress. As a means of
negotiation I recommend the immediate appointment of a small joint special committee chosen
from the appropriate general standing committees of the House and Senate to receive bids, which
when made should be reported with recommendations as to acceptance, upon which a law should
be enacted, effecting a sale to the highest bidder who will agree to carry out these purposes.

If anything were needed to demonstrate the almost utter incapacity of the National Government
to deal directly with an industrial and commercial problem, it has been provided by our experience
with this property. We have expended vast fortunes, we have taxed everybody, but we are unable
to secure results, which benefit anybody. This property ought, to be transferred to private
management under conditions which will dedicate it to the public purpose for which it was conceived.

RECLAMATION

The National Government is committed to a policy of reclamation and irrigation which it desires
to establish on a sound basis and continue in the interest of the localities concerned. Exhaustive
studies have recently been made of Federal reclamation, which have resulted in improving the
projects and adjusting many difficulties. About one third of the projects is in good financial
condition, another third can probably be made profitable, while the other third is under unfavorable
conditions. The Congress has already provided for a survey which will soon be embodied in a
report. That ought to suggest a method of relief which will make unnecessary further appeals
to the Congress. Unless this can be done, Federal reclamation will be considerably retarded.
With the greatly increased cost of construction and operation, it has become necessary to plan
in advance, by community organization and selective agriculture, methods sufficient to repay
these increasing outlays.

The human and economic interests of the farmer citizens suggest that the States should be required
to exert some effort and assume some responsibility, especially in the intimate, detailed,
and difficult work of securing settlers and developing farms which directly profit them, but
only indirectly and remotely can reimburse the Nation. It is believed that the Federal Government
should continue to be the agency for planning and constructing the great undertakings needed
to regulate and bring into use the rivers the West, many of which are interstate in character,
but the detailed work of creating agricultural communities and a rural civilization on the
land made ready for reclamation ought to be either transferred to the State in its entirety
or made a cooperative effort of the State and Federal Government.

SHIPPING

The maintenance of a merchant marine is of the utmost importance for national defense and the
service of our commerce. We have a large number of ships engaged in that service. We also have
a surplus supply, costly to care for, which ought to be sold. All the investigations that have
been made under my direction, and those which have been prosecuted independently, have reached
the conclusion that the fleet should be under the direct control of a single executive head,
while the Shipping Board should exercise its judicial and regulatory functions in Accordance
with its original conception. The report of Henry G. Dalton, a business man of broad experience,
with a knowledge of shipping, made to me after careful investigation, will be transmitted for
the information of the Congress, the studies pursued under the direction of the United States
Chamber of Commerce will also be accessible, and added to these will be the report of the special
committee of the House.

I do not advocate the elimination of regional considerations, but it has become apparent that
without centralized executive action the management of this great business, like the management
of any other great business, will flounder in incapacity and languish under a division of council.
A plain and unmistakable reassertion of this principle of unified control, which I have always
been advised was the intention of the Congress to apply, is necessary to increase the efficiency
of our merchant fleet.

COAL

The perennial conflict in the coal industry is still going on to the great detriment of the
wage earners, the owners, and especially to the public. With deposits of coal in this country
capable of supplying its needs for hundreds of years, inability to manage and control this
great resource for the benefit of all concerned is very close to a national economic failure.
It has been the subject of repeated investigation and reiterated recommendation. Yet the industry
seems never to have accepted modern methods of adjusting differences between employers and
employees. The industry could serve the public much better and become subject to a much more
effective method of control if regional consolidations and more freedom in the formation of
marketing associations, under the supervision of the Department of Commerce, were permitted.

At the present time the National Government has little or no authority to deal with this vital
necessity of the life of the country. It has permitted itself to remain so powerless that its
only attitude must be humble supplication. Authority should be lodged with the President and
the Departments of Commerce and Labor, giving them power to deal with an emergency. They should
be able to appoint temporary boards with authority to call for witnesses and documents, conciliate
differences, encourage arbitration, and in case of threatened scarcity exercise control over
distribution. Making the facts public under these circumstances through a statement from an
authoritative source would be of great public benefit. The report of the last coal commission
should be brought forward, reconsidered, and acted upon.

PROHIBITION

Under the orderly processes of our fundamental institutions the Constitution was lately amended
providing for national prohibition. The Congress passed an act for its enforcement, and similar
acts have been provided by most of the States. It is the law of the land. It is the duty of
all who come under its, jurisdiction to observe the spirit of that law, and it is the duty
of the Department of Justice and the Treasury Department to enforce it. Action to prevent smuggling,
illegal transportation in interstate commerce, abuse in the use of permits, and existence of
sources of supply for illegal traffic is almost entirely imposed upon the Federal Government.

Through treaties with foreign governments and increased activities of the Coast Guard, revenue
agents, district attorneys and enforcement agents effort is being made to prevent these violations.
But the Constitution also puts a concurrent duty on the States. We need their active and energetic
cooperation, the vigilant action of their police, and the jurisdiction of their courts to assist
in enforcement. I request of the people observance, of the public officers continuing efforts
for enforcement, and of the Congress favorable action on the budget recommendation for the
prosecution of this work.

WATERWAY DEVELOPMENT

For many years our country has been employed in plans and M for the development of our intracoastal
and inland waterways. This work along our coast is an important adjunct to our commerce. It
will be carried on, together with the further opening up of our harbors, as our resources permit.
The Government made an agreement during the war to take over the Cape Cod Canal, under which
the owners made valuable concessions. This pledged faith of the Government ought to be redeemed.

Two other main fields are under consideration. One is the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence, including
the Erie Canal. This includes stabilizing the lake level, and is both a waterway and power
project. A joint commission of the United States and Canada is working on plans and surveys
which will not be completed until next April. No final determination can be made, apparently,
except under treaty as to the participation of both countries. The other is the Mississippi
River stem. This is almost entirely devoted to navigation. Work on the Ohio River will be completed
in about three years. A modern channel connecting Chicago, New Orleans, Kansas City, and Pittsburgh
should be laid out and work on the tributaries prosecuted. Some work is being done of a preparatory
nature along the Missouri, and large expenditures are being made yearly in the lower reaches
of the Mississippi and its tributaries which contribute both to flood control and navigation.
Preliminary measures are being taken on the Colorado River project, which is exceedingly important
for flood control, irrigation, power development, and water supply to the area concerned. It
would seem to be very doubtful, however, whether it is practical to secure affirmative action
of the Congress, except under a Joint agreement of the several States.

The Government has already expended large sums upon scientific research and engineering investigation
in promotion of this Colorado River project. The actual progress has been retarded for many
years by differences among the seven States in the basin over their relative water rights and
among different groups as to methods. In an attempt to settle the primary difficulty of the
water rights, Congress authorized the Colorado River Commission which agreed on November 24,
1922, upon an interstate compact to settle these rights, subject to the ratification of the
State legislatures and Congress. All seven States except Arizona at one time ratified, the
Arizona Legislature making certain reservations which failed to meet the approval of the governor.
Subsequently an attempt was made to establish the compact upon a six-State basis, but in this
case California imposed reservations. There appears to be no division of opinion upon the major
principles of the compact, but difficulty in separating contentions to methods of development
from the discussion of it. It is imperative that flood control be undertaken for California
and Arizona. preparation made for irrigation, for power, and for domestic water.

Some or all of these questions are combined in every proposed development. The Federal Government
is interested in some of these phases, State governments and municipalities and irrigation
districts in others, and private corporations in still others. Because of all this difference
of view it is most desirable that Congress should consider the creation of some agency that
will be able to determine methods of improvement solely upon economic and engineering facts,
that would be authorized to negotiate and settle, subject to the approval of Congress, the
participation, rights, and obligations of each group in any particular works. Only by some
such method can early construction be secured.

WATER POWER

Along with the development of navigation should go every possible encouragement for the development
of our water power. While steam still plays a dominant part, this is more and more becoming
an era of electricity. Once installed, the cost is moderate, has not tended greatly to increase,
and is entirely free from the unavoidable dirt and disagreeable features attendant upon the
burning of coal. Every facility should be extended for the connection of the various units
into a superpower plant, capable at all times of a current increasing uniformity over the entire
system.

RAILROADS

The railroads throughout the country are in a fair state of prosperity. Their service is good
and their supply of cars is abundant. Their condition would be improved and the public better
served by a system of consolidations. I recommend that the Congress authorize such consolidations
tinder the supervision of the Interstate Commerce Commission, with power to approve or disapprove
when proposed parts are excluded or new parts added. I am informed that the railroad managers
and their employees have reached a substantial agreement as to what legislation is necessary
to regulate and improve their relationship. Whenever they bring forward such proposals, which
seem sufficient also to protect the interests of the public, they should be enacted into law.

It is gratifying to report that both the railroad managers and railroad employees are providing
boards for the mutual adjustment of differences in harmony with the principles of conference,
conciliation, and arbitration. The solution of their problems ought to be an example to all
other industries. Those who ask the protections of civilization should be ready to use the
methods of civilization.

A strike in modern industry has many of the aspects of war in the modern world. It injures
labor and it injures capital. If the industry involved is a basic one, it reduces the necessary
economic surplus and, increasing the cost of living, it injures the economic welfare and general
comfort of the whole people. It also involves a deeper cost. It tends to embitter and divide
the community into warring classes and thus weakens the unity and power of our national life.

Labor can make no permanent gains at the cost of the general welfare. All the victories won
by organized labor in the past generation have been won through the support of public opinion.
The manifest inclination of the managers and employees of the railroads to adopt a policy of
action in harmony with these principles marks a new epoch in our industrial life.

OUTLYING POSSESSIONS

The time has come for careful investigation of the expenditures and success of the laws by
which we have undertaken to administer our outlying possessions. A very large amount of money
is being expended for administration in Alaska. It appears so far out of proportion to the
number of inhabitants and the amount of production as to indicate cause for thorough investigation.
Likewise consideration should be given to the experience under the law which governs the Philippines.
From such reports as reach me there are indications that more authority should be given to
the Governor General, so that he will not be so dependent upon the local legislative body to
render effective our efforts to set an example of the, sound administration and good government,
which is so necessary for the preparation of the Philippine people for self-government under
ultimate independence. If they are to be trained in these arts, it is our duty to provide for
them the best that there is.

RETIREMENT OF JUDGES

The act of March 3, 1911, ought to be amended so that the term of years of service of judges
of any court of the United States requisite for retirement with pay shall be computed to include
not only continuous but aggregate service.

MOTHERS' AID

The Government ought always to be alert on the side of the humanities. It Ought to encourage
provisions for economic justice for the defenseless. It ought to extend its relief through
its national and local agencies, as may be appropriate in each case, to the suffering and the
needy. It ought to be charitable.

Although more than 40 of our States have enacted measures in aid of motherhood, the District
of Columbia is still without such a law. A carefully considered bill will be presented, which
ought to have most thoughtful consideration in order that the Congress may adopt a measure
which will be hereafter a model for all parts of the Union.

CIVIL SERVICE

In 1883 the Congress passed the civil service act, which from a modest beginning of 14,000
employees has grown until there are now 425,000 in the classified service. This has removed
the clerical force of the Nation from the wasteful effects of the spoils system and made it
more stable and efficient. The time has come to consider classifying all postmasters, collectors
of customs, collectors of internal revenue, and prohibition agents, by an act covering in those
at present in office, except when otherwise provided by Executive order.

The necessary statistics are now being gathered to form the basis of a valuation of the civil
service retirement fund based on current conditions of the service. It is confidently expected
that this valuation will be completed in time to be made available to the Congress during the
present session. It will afford definite knowledge of existing, and future liabilities under
the present law and determination OF liabilities under any proposed change in the present law.
We should have this information before creating further obligations for retirement annuities
which will become liabilities to be met in the future from the money of the taxpayer.

The classification act of 1923, with the subsequent legislative action providing for adjustment
of the compensation of field service positions, has operated materially to improve employment
conditions in the Federal service. The administration of the act is in the hands of an impartial
board, functioning without the necessity of a direct appropriation. It would be inadvisable
at this time to place in other hands the administration of this act.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION

The proper function of the Federal Trade Commission is to supervise and correct those practices
in commerce which are detrimental to fair competition. In this it performs a useful function
and should be continued and supported. It was designed also to be a help to honest business.
In my message to the Sixty-eighth Congress I recommended that changes in the procedure then
existing be made. Since then the commission by its own action has reformed its rules, giving
greater speed and economy in the disposal of its cases and full opportunity for those accused
to be heard. These changes are improvements and, if necessary, provision should be made for
their permanency.

REORGANIZATION

No final action has yet been taken on the measure providing for the reorganization of the various
departments. I therefore suggest that this measure, which will be of great benefit to the efficient
and economical administration of the business of the Government, be brought forward and passed.

THE NEGRO

Nearly one-tenth of our population consists of the Negro race. The progress which they have
made in all the arts of civilization in the last 60 years is almost beyond belief. Our country
has no more loyal citizens. But they do still need sympathy, kindness, and helpfulness. They
need reassurance that the requirements of the Government and society to deal out to them even-handed
justice will be met. They should be protected from all violence and supported in the peaceable
enjoyment of the fruits of their labor. Those who do violence to them should be punished for
their crimes. No other course of action is worthy of the American people.

Our country has many elements in its population, many different modes of thinking and living,
all of which are striving in their own way to be loyal to the high ideals worthy of the crown
of American citizenship. It is fundamental of our institutions that they seek to guarantee
to all our inhabitants the right to live their own lives under the protection of the public
law. This does not include any license to injure others materially, physically, morally, to
Incite revolution, or to violate the established customs which have long had the sanction of
enlightened society.

But it does mean the full right to liberty and equality before the law without distinction
of race or creed. This condition can not be granted to others, or enjoyed by ourselves, except
by the application of the principle of broadest tolerance. Bigotry is only another name for
slavery. It reduces to serfdom not only those against whom it is directed, but also those who
seek to apply it. An enlarged freedom can only be secured by the application of the golden
rule. No other utterance ever presented such a practical rule of life.

CONCLUSION

It is apparent that we are reaching into an era of great general prosperity. It will continue
only so long as we shall use it properly. After all, there is but a fixed quantity of wealth
in this country at any fixed time. The only way that we can all secure more of it is to create
more. The element of time enters into production, If the people have sufficient moderation
and contentment to be willing to improve their condition by the process of enlarging production,
eliminating waste, and distributing equitably, a prosperity almost without limit lies before
its. If the people are to be dominated by selfishness, seeking immediate riches by nonproductive
speculation and by wasteful quarreling over the returns from industry, they will be confronted
by the inevitable results of depression and privation. If they will continue industrious and
thrifty, contented with fair wages and moderate profits, and the returns which accrue from
the development of oar natural resources, our prosperity will extend itself indefinitely.

In all your deliberations you should remember that the purpose of legislation is to translate
principles into action. It is an effort to have our country be better by doing better. Because
the thoughts and ways of people are firmly fixed and not easily changed, the field within which
immediate improvement can be secured is very narrow. Legislation can provide opportunity. Whether
it is taken advantage of or not depends upon the people themselves. The Government of the United
States has been created by the people. It is solely responsible to them. It will be most successful
if it is conducted solely for their benefit. All its efforts would be of little avail unless
they brought more justice, more enlightenment, more happiness and prosperity into the home.
This means an opportunity to observe religion, secure education, and earn a living under a
reign of law and order. It is the growth and improvement of the material and spiritual life
of the Nation. We shall not be able to gain these ends merely by our own action. If they come
at all, it will be because we have been willing to work in harmony with the abiding purpose
of a Divine Providence.

***

State of the Union Address Calvin Coolidge December 7, 1926

Members of the Congress:

In reporting to the Congress the state of the Union, I find it impossible to characterize it
other than one of general peace and prosperity. In some quarters our diplomacy is vexed with
difficult and as yet unsolved problems, but nowhere are we met with armed conflict. If some
occupations and areas are not flourishing, in none does there remain any acute chronic depression.
What the country requires is not so much new policies as a steady continuation of those which
are already being crowned with such abundant success. It can not be too often repeated that
in common with all the world we are engaged in liquidating the war.

In the present short session no great amount of new legislation is possible, but in order to
comprehend what is most desirable some survey of our general situation is necessary. A large
amount of time is consumed in the passage of appropriation bills. If each Congress in its opening
session would make appropriations to continue for two years, very much time would be saved
which could either be devoted to a consideration of the general needs of the country or would
result in decreasing the work of legislation. ECONOMY

Our present state of prosperity has been greatly promoted by three important causes, one of
which is economy, resulting in reduction and reform in national taxation. Another is the elimination
of many kinds of waste. The third is a general raising of the standards of efficiency. This
combination has brought the perfectly astonishing result of a reduction in the index price
of commodities and an increase in the index rate of wages. We have secured a lowering of the
cost to produce and a raising of the ability to consume. Prosperity resulting from these causes
rests on the securest of all foundations. It gathers strength from its own progress.

In promoting this progress the chief part which the National Government plays lies in the field
of economy. Whatever doubts may have been entertained as to the necessity of this policy and
the beneficial results which would accrue from it to all the people of the Nation, its wisdom
must now be considered thoroughly demonstrated. It may not have appeared to be a novel or perhaps
brilliant conception, but it has turned out to be preeminently sound. It has not failed to
work. It has surely brought results. It does not have to be excused as a temporary expedient
adopted as the lesser evil to remedy some abuse, it is not a palliative seeking to treat symptoms,
but a major operation for the, eradication at the source of a large number of social diseases.

Nothing is easier than the expenditure of public money. It does not appear to belong to anybody.
The temptation is overwhelming to bestow it on somebody. But the results of extravagance are
ruinous. The property of the country, like the freedom of the country, belongs to the people
of the country. They have not empowered their Government to take a dollar of it except for
a necessary public purpose. But if the Constitution conferred such right, sound economics would
forbid it. Nothing is more, destructive of the progress of the Nation than government extravagance.
It means an increase in the burden of taxation, dissipation of the returns from enterprise,
a decrease in the real value of wages, with ultimate stagnation and decay. The whole theory
of our institutions is based on the liberty and independence of the individual. He is dependent
on himself for support and therefore entitled to the rewards of his own industry. He is not
to be deprived of what he earns that others may be benefited by what they do not earn. What
he saves through his private effort is not to be wasted by Government extravagance.

Our national activities have become so vast that it is necessary to scrutinize each item of
public expenditure if we are to apply the principle of economy. At the last session we made
an immediate increase in the annual budget of more than $100,000,000 in benefits conferred
on the veterans of three wars, public buildings, and river and harbor improvement. Many projects
are being broached requiring further large outlays. I am convinced that it would be greatly
for the welfare of the country if we avoid at the present session all commitments except those
of the most pressing nature. From a reduction of the debt and taxes will accrue a wider benefit
to all the people of this country than from embarking on any new enterprise. When our war debt
is decreased we shall have resources for expansion. Until that is accomplished we should confine
ourselves to expenditures of the most urgent necessity.

The Department of Commerce has performed a most important function in making plans and securing
support of all kinds of national enterprise for the elimination of waste. Efficiency has been
greatly promoted through good management and the constantly increasing cooperation of the wage
earners throughout the whole realm of private business. It is my opinion that this whole development
has been predicated on the foundation of a protective tariff.

TAX REDUCTION

As a result of economy of administration by the Executive and of appropriation by the Congress,
the end of this fiscal year will leave a surplus in the Treasury estimated at $383,000,000.
Unless otherwise ordered, such surplus is used for the retirement of the war debt. A bond which
can be retired today for 100 cents will cost the people 104 1/4 cents to retire a year from
now. While I favor a speedy reduction of the debt as already required by law and in accordance
with the promises made to the holders of our Liberty bonds when they were issued, there is
no reason why a balanced portion of surplus revenue should not be applied to a reduction of
taxation. It can not be repeated too often that the enormous revenues of this Nation could
not be collected without becoming a charge on all the people whether or not they directly pay
taxes. Everyone who is paying or the bare necessities of fool and shelter and clothing, without
considering the better things of life, is indirectly paying a national tax. The nearly 20,000,000
owners of securities, the additional scores of millions of holders of insurance policies and
depositors in savings banks, are all paying a national tax. Millions of individuals and corporations
are making a direct contribution to the National Treasury which runs from 11/2 to 25 per cent
of their income, besides a number of special requirements, like automobile and admission taxes.
Whenever the state of the Treasury will permit, I believe in a reduction of taxation. I think
the taxpayers are entitled to it. But I am not advocating tax reduction merely for the benefit
of the taxpayer; I am advocating it for the benefit of the country.

If it appeared feasible, I should welcome permanent tax reduction at this time. The estimated
surplus, however, for June 30, 1928, is not much larger than is required in a going business
of nearly $4,000,000,000. We have had but a few months' experience under the present revenue
act and shall need to know what is developed by the returns of income produced under it, which
are not required t o be made until about the time this session terminates, and what the economic
probabilities of the country are in the latter part of 1927, before we can reach any justifiable
conclusion as to permanent tax reduction. Moreover the present surplus results from many nonrecurrent
items. Meantime, it is possible to grant some real relief by a simple measure making reductions
in the payments which accrue on the 15th of March and June, 1927. I am very strongly of the
conviction that this is so much a purely business matter that it ought not to be dealt with
in a partisan spirit. The Congress has already set the notable example of treating tax problems
without much reference to party, which might well be continued. What I desire to advocate most
earnestly is relief for the country from unnecessary tax burdens. We can not secure that if
we stop to engage in a partisan controversy. As I do not think any change in the special taxes,
or tiny permanent reduction is practical, I therefore urge both parties of the House Ways and
Means Committee to agree on a bill granting the temporary relief which I have indicated. Such
a reduction would directly affect millions of taxpayers, release large sums for investment
in new enterprise, stimulating industrial production and agricultural consumption, and indirectly
benefiting every family in the whole country. These are my convictions stated with full knowledge
that it is for the Congress to decide whether they judge it best to make such a reduction or
leave the surplus for the present year to be applied to retirement of the war debt. That also
is eventually tax reduction.

PROTECTIVE TARIFF

It is estimated that customs receipts for the present fiscal year will exceed $615,000,000,
the largest which were ever secured from that source. The value of our imports for the last
fiscal year was $4,466,000,000, an increase of more than 71 per cent since the present tariff
law went into effect. Of these imports about 65 per cent, or, roughly, $2,900,000,000, came
in free of duty, which means that the United States affords a duty-free market to other countries
almost equal in value to the total imports of Germany and greatly exceeding the total imports
of France. We have admitted a greater volume of free imports than any other country except England.

We are, therefore, levying duties on about $1,550,000,000 of imports. Nearly half of this,
or $700,000,000, is subject to duties for the protection of agriculture and have their origin
in countries other than Europe. They substantially increased the prices received by our farmers
for their produce. About $300,000.000 more is represented by luxuries such as costly rugs,
furs, precious stones, etc. This leaves only about $550,000,000 of our imports under a schedule
of duties which is in general under consideration when there is discussion of lowering the
tariff. While the duties on this small portion, representing only about 12 per cent of our
imports, undoubtedly represent the difference between a fair degree of prosperity or marked
depression to many of our industries and the difference between good pay and steady work or
wide unemployment to many of our wage earners, it is impossible to conceive how other countries
or our own importers could be greatly benefited if these duties are reduced. Those who are
starting an agitation for a reduction of tariff duties, partly at least for the benefit of
those to whom money has been lent abroad, ought to know that there does not seem to be a very
large field within the area of our imports in which probable reductions would be advantageous
to foreign goods. Those who wish to benefit foreign producers are much more likely to secure
that result by continuing the present enormous purchasing power which comes from our prosperity
that increased our imports over 71 per cent in four years than from any advantages that are
likely to accrue from a general tariff reduction.

AGRICULTURE

The important place which agriculture holds in the economic and social life of the Nation can
not be overestimated. The National Government is justified in putting forth every effort to
make the open country a desirable place to live. No condition meets this requirement which
fails to supply a fair return on labor expended and capital invested. While some localities
and some particular crops furnish exceptions, in general agriculture is continuing to make
progress in recovering from the depression of 1921 and 1922. Animal products and food products
are in a more encouraging position, while cotton, due to the high prices of past years supplemented
by ideal weather conditions, has been stimulated to a point of temporary over production. Acting
on the request of the cotton growing interests, appointed a committee to assist in carrying
out their plans. As it result of this cooperation sufficient funds have been pledged to finance
the storage and carrying of 4,000,000 bales of cotton. Whether those who own the cotton are
willing to put a part of their stock into this plan depends on themselves. The Federal Government
has cooperated in providing ample facilities. No method of meeting the situation would be adequate
which does not contemplate a reduction of about one-third in the acreage for the coming year.
The responsibility for making the plan effective lies with those who own and finance cotton
and cotton lands.

The Department of Agriculture estimates the net income of agriculture for the year 1920-21
at only $375,000,000; for 1924-25, $2,656,000,000; for 1925-26, $2,757,000,000. This increase
has been brought about in part by the method already referred to, of Federal tax reduction,
the elimination of waste, and increased efficiency in industry. The wide gap that existed a
few years ago between the index price of agricultural products and the index price of other
products has been gradually closing up, though the recent depression in cotton has somewhat
enlarged it. Agriculture had on the whole been going higher while industry had been growing
lower. Industrial and commercial activities, being carried on for the most part by corporations,
are taxed at a much higher rate than farming, which is carried on by individuals. This will
inevitably make industrial commodity costs high while war taxation lasts. It is because of
this circumstance that national tax reduction has a very large indirect benefit upon the farmer,
though it can not relieve him from the very great burden of the local taxes which he pays directly.
We have practically relieved the farmer of any Federal income tax.

There is agreement on all sides that some portions of our agricultural industry have lagged
behind other industries in recovery from the war and that further improvement in methods of
marketing of agricultural products is most desirable. There is belief also that the Federal
Government can further contribute to these ends beyond the many helpful measures taken during
the last five years through the different acts of Congress for advancing the interests of the
farmers.

The packers and stockyards act,

Establishing of the intermediate credit banks for agricultural purposes,

The Purnell Act for agricultural research,

The Capper-Volstead Cooperative Marketing Act,

The cooperative marketing act of 1926,

Amendments to the warehousing act,

The enlargement of the activities of the Department of Agriculture,

Enlargement of the scope of loans by the Farm Loan Board,

The tariff on agricultural products,

The large Federal expenditure in improvement of waterways and highways,

The reduction of Federal taxes, in all comprise a great series of governmental actions in the
advancement of the special interest of agriculture.

In determination of what further measures may be undertaken it seems to me there are certain
pitfalls which must be avoided and our test in avoiding them should be to avoid disaster to
the farmer himself.

Acting upon my recommendation, the Congress has ordered the interstate Commerce Commission
to investigate the freight-rate structure, directing that such changes shall be made in freight
rates as will promote freedom of movement of agricultural products. Railroad consolidation
which I am advocating would also result in a situation where rates could be made more advantageous
for farm produce, as has recently been done in the revision of rates on fertilizers in the
South. Additional benefit will accrue from the development of our inland waterways. The Mississippi
River system carries a commerce of over 50,000,000 tons at a saving of nearly $18,000,000 annually.
The Inland Waterways Corporation operates boats on 2,500 miles of navigable streams and through
its relation with 165 railroads carries freight into and out of 45 States of the Union. During
the past six months it has handled over 1,000,000 bushels of grain monthly and by its lower
freight rates has raised the price of such grain to the farmer probably 21/2 cents to 3 cents
a bushel. The highway system on which the Federal Government expends about $85,000,000 a year
is of vital importance to the rural regions.

The advantages to be derived from a more comprehensive and less expensive system of transportation
for agriculture ought to be supplemented by provision for an adequate supply of fertilizer
at a lower cost than it is at present obtainable. This advantage we are attempting to secure
by the proposed development at Muscle Shoals, and there are promising experiments being made
in synthetic chemistry for the production of nitrates.

A survey should be made of the relation of Government grazing lands to the livestock industry.
Additional legislation is desirable more definitely to establish the place of grazing in the
administration of the national forests, properly subordinated to their functions of producing
timber and conserving the water supply. Over 180,000,000 acres of grazing lands are still pastured
as commons in the public domain with little or no regulation. This has made their use so uncertain
that it has contributed greatly to the instability of the livestock industry. Very little of
this land is suited to settlement or private ownership. Some plan ought to be adopted for its
use in grazing, corresponding broadly to that already successfully applied to the national forests.

The development of sound and strong cooperative associations is of fundamental importance to
our agriculture. It is encouraging to note, therefore, that a vigorous and healthy growth in
the cooperative movement is continuing. Cooperative associations reporting to the Department
of Agriculture at the end of 1925 had on their membership rolls a total of 2,700,000 producers.
Their total business in 1925 amounted to approximately $2,400,000,000, compared with $635,800,000
in 1915. Legislative action to assist cooperative associations and supplement their efforts
was passed at the last session of Congress. Important credit measures were also provided by
Congress in 1923 which have been of inestimable value to the cooperative associations. Although
the Federal credit agencies have served agriculture well, I think it may be possible to broaden
and strengthen the service of these institutions.

Attention is again directed to the surplus problem of agriculture by the present cotton situation.
Surpluses often affect prices of various farm commodities in a disastrous manner, and the problem
urgently demands a solution. Discussions both in and out of Congress during the past few years
have given us a better understanding of the subject, and it is my hope that out of the various
proposals made the basis will be found for a sound and effective solution upon which agreement
can be reached. In my opinion cooperative marketing associations will be important aids to
the ultimate solution of the problem. It may well be, however, that additional measures will
be needed to supplement their efforts. I believe all will agree that such measures should not
conflict with the best interests of the cooperatives, but rather assist and strengthen them.
In working out this problem to any sound conclusion it is necessary to avoid putting the Government
into the business of production or marketing or attempting to enact legislation for the purpose
of price fixing. The farmer does not favor any attempted remedies that partake of these elements.
He has a sincere and candid desire for assistance. If matched by an equally sincere and candid
consideration of the different remedies proposed a sound measure of relief ought to result.
It is unfortunate that no general agreement has been reached by the various agricultural interests
upon any of the proposed remedies. Out of the discussion of various proposals which can be
had before the Committees of Agriculture some measure ought to be perfected which would be
generally satisfactory.

Due to the emergency arising from a heavy tropical storm in southern Florida, I authorized
the Secretary of Agriculture to use certain funds in anticipation of legislation to enable
the farmers in that region to plant their crops. The department will present a bill ratifying
the loans which were made for this purpose.

Federal legislation has been adopted authorizing the cooperation of the Government with States
and private owners in the protection of forest lands from fire. This preventive measure is
of such great importance that I have recommended for it an increased appropriation.

Another preventive measure of great economic and sanitary importance is the eradication of
tuberculosis in cattle. Active work is now in progress in one-fourth of the counties of the
United States to secure this result. Over 12,000,000 cattle have been under treatment, and
the average degree of infection has fallen from 4.9 per cent to 2.8 per cent. he Federal Government
is making substantial expenditures for this purpose.

Serious damage is threatened to the corn crop by the European corn borer. Since 1917 it has
spread from eastern New England westward into Indiana and now covers about 100,000 square miles.
It is one of the most formidable pests because it spreads rapidly and is exceedingly difficult
of control. It has assumed a menace that is of national magnitude and warrants the Federal
Government in extending its cooperation to the State and local agencies which are attempting
to prevent its further spread and secure its eradication.

The whole question of agriculture needs most careful consideration. In the past few years the
Government has given this subject more attention than any other and has held more consultations
in relation to it than on any other subject. While the Government is not to be blamed for failure
to perform the impossible, the agricultural regions are entitled to know that they have its
constant solicitude and sympathy. Many of the farmers are burdened with debts and taxes which
they are unable to carry. We are expending in this country many millions of dollars each year
to increase farm production. We ought now to put more emphasis on the question of farm marketing.
If a sound solution of a permanent nature can be found for this problem, the Congress ought
not to hesitate to adopt it.

DEVELOPMENT OF WATER RESOURCES

In previous messages I have referred to the national importance of the proper development of
our water resources. The great projects of extension of the Mississippi system, the protection
an development of the lower Colorado River, are before Congress, and I have previously commented
upon them. I favor the necessary legislation to expedite these projects. Engineering studies
are being made for connecting the Great Lakes with the North Atlantic either through an all-American
canal or by way of the St. Lawrence River. These reports will undoubtedly be before the Congress
during its present session. It is unnecessary to dwell upon the great importance of such a
waterway not only to our mid-continental basin but to the commerce and development of practically
the whole Nation. Our river and harbor improvement should be continued in accordance with the
present policy. Expenditure of this character is compatible with economy; it is in the nature
of capital investment. Work should proceed on the basic trunk lines if this work is to be a
success. If the country will be content to be moderate and patient and permit improvements
to be made where they will do the greatest general good, rather than insisting on expenditures
at this time on secondary projects, our internal Waterways can be made a success. If proposes
legislation results in a gross manifestation of local jealousies and selfishness, this program
can not be carried out. Ultimately we can take care of extensions, but our first effort should
be confined to the main arteries.

Our inland commerce has been put to great inconvenience and expense by reason of the lowering
of the water level of the Great Lakes. This is an international problem on which competent
engineers are making reports. Out of their study it is expected that a feasible method will
be developed for raising the level to provide relief for our commerce and supply water for
drainage. Whenever a practical plan is presented it ought to be speedily adopted.

RECLAMATION

It is increasingly evident that the Federal Government must in the future take a leading part
in the impounding of water for conservation with incidental power for the development of the
irrigable lands of the and region. The unused waters of the West are found mainly in large
rivers. Works to store and distribute these have such magnitude and cost that they are not
attractive to private enterprise. Water is the irreplaceable natural resource. Its precipitation
can not be increased. Its storage on the higher reaches of streams, to meet growing needs,
to be used repeatedly as it flows toward the seas, is a practical and prudent business policy.

The United States promises to follow the course of older irrigation countries, where recent
important irrigation developments have been carried out as national undertakings. It is gratifying,
therefore, that conditions on Federal reclamation projects have become satisfactory. The gross
value of crop, grown with water from project works increased from $110,000,000 in 1924 to $131,000,000
in 1925. The adjustments made last year by Congress relieved irrigators from paying construction
costs on unprofitable land, and by so doing inspired new hope and confidence in ability to
meet the payments required. Construction payments by water users last year were the largest
in the history of the bureau.

The anticipated reclamation fund will be fully absorbed for a number of years in the completion
of old projects and the construction of projects inaugurated in the past three years. We should,
however, continue to investigate and study the possibilities of a carefully planned development
of promising projects, logically of governmental concern because of their physical magnitude,
immense cost, and the interstate and international problems involved. Only in this way may
we be fully prepared to meet intelligently the needs of our fast-growing population in the
years to come.

TRANSPORTATION

It would be difficult to conceive of any modern activity which contributes more to the necessities
and conveniences of life than transportation. Without it our present agricultural production
and practically all of our commerce would be completely prostrated. One of the large contributing
causes to the present highly satisfactory state of our economic condition is the prompt and
dependable service, surpassing all our previous records, rendered by the railroads. This power
has been fostered by the spirit of cooperation between Federal and State regulatory commissions.
To render this service more efficient and effective and to promote a more scientific regulation,
the process of valuing railroad properties should be simplified and the primary valuations
should be completed as rapidly as possible. The problem of rate reduction would be much simplified
by a process of railroad consolidations. This principle has already been adopted as Federal
law. Experience has shown that a more effective method must be provided. Studies have already
been made and legislation introduced seeking to promote this end. It would be of great advantage
if it could be taken up at once and speedily enacted. The railroad systems of the country and
the convenience of all the people are waiting on this important decision.

MERCHANT MARINE

It is axiomatic that no agricultural and industrial country can get the full benefit of its
own advantages without a merchant marine. We have been proceeding under the act of Congress
that contemplates the establishment of trade routes to be ultimately transferred to private
ownership and operation. Due to temporary conditions abroad and at home we have a large demand
just now for certain types of freight vessels. Some suggestion has been made for new construction.
I do not feel that we are yet warranted in entering, that field. Such ships as we might build
could not be sold after they are launched for anywhere near what they would cost. We have expended
over $250,000,000 out of the public Treasury in recent years to make up the losses of operation,
not counting the depreciation or any cost whatever of our capital investment. The great need
of our merchant marine is not for more ships but for more freight.

Our merchants are altogether too indifferent about using American ships for the transportation
of goods which they send abroad or bring home. Some of our vessels necessarily need repairs,
which should be made. I do not believe that the operation of our fleet is as economical and
efficient as it could be made if placed under a single responsible head, leaving the Shipping
Board free to deal with general matters of policy and regulation.

RADIO LEGISLATION

The Department of Commerce has for some years urgently presented the necessity for further
legislation in order to protect radio listeners from interference between broadcasting stations
and to carry out other regulatory functions. Both branches of Congress at the last session
passed enactments intended to effect such regulation, but the two bills yet remain to be brought
into agreement and final passage.

Due to decisions of the courts, the authority of the department under the law of 1912 has broken
down; many more stations have been operating than can be accommodated within the limited number
of wave lengths available; further stations are in course of construction; many stations have
departed from the scheme of allocation set down by the department, and the whole service of
this most important public function has drifted into such chaos as seems likely, if not remedied,
to destroy its great value. I most urgently recommend that this legislation should be speedily
enacted.

I do not believe it is desirable to set up further independent agencies in the Government.
Rather I believe it advisable to entrust the important functions of deciding who shall exercise
the privilege of radio transmission and under what conditions, the assigning of wave lengths
and determination of power, to a board to be assembled whenever action on such questions becomes
necessary. There should be right of appeal to the courts from the decisions of such board.
The administration of the decisions of the board and the other features of regulation and promotion
of radio in the public interest, together with scientific research, should remain in the Department
of Commerce. Such an arrangement makes for more expert, more efficient, and more economical
administration that an independent agency or board, whose duties, after initial stages, require
but little attention, in which administrative functions are confused with semijudicial functions
and from which of necessity there must be greatly increased personnel and expenditure.

THE WAGE EARNER

The great body of our people are made up of wage earners. Several hundred thousands of them
are on the pay rolls of the United States Government. Their condition very largely is fixed
by legislation. We have recently provided increases in compensation under a method of reclassification
and given them the advantage of a liberal retirement system as a support for their declining
years. Most of them are under the merit system, which is a guaranty of their intelligence,
and the efficiency of their service is a demonstration of their loyalty. The Federal Government
should continue to set a good example for all other employers.

In the industries the condition of the wage earner has steadily improved. The 12-hour day is
almost entirely unknown. Skilled labor is well compensated. Our experiment may simply be considered as
a thoroughly controlled instance of an often recurring phenomenon. It teaches us how, in the
[481] main, the peloric mutations must be assumed to proceed.

This conception may still be broadened. We may include in it all similar occurrences, in allied and
other species. There is hardly a limit to the possibilities which are opened up by this experience.
But it will be well to refrain from hazardous theorizing, and consider only those cases which
may be regarded as exact repetitions of the same phenomenon and of which our culture is one of
the most recent instances on record. We will limit ourselves to the probable origin of peloric
variations at large, of which little is known, but some evidence may be derived from the recorded
facts. Only one case can be said to be directly analogous to our observations.

This refers to the peloric race of the common snapdragon, or Antirrhinum
majus of our gardens.

It is known to produce peloric races from time to time in the same
way as does the toadflax.

But the snapdragon is self-fertile and so is its peloric variety. Some cases are relatively old,
and some of them have been recorded and in part observed by Darwin. Whence they have sprung and in
what manner they were produced, seems never to have been noted. Others are of later origin, and
among these one or two varieties have been accidentally produced [482] in the nursery of Mr. Chr.
Lorenz in Erfurt, and are now for sale, the seeds being guaranteed to yield a large proportion
of peloric individuals. The peloric form in this case appeared at once, but was not isolated,
and was left free to visiting insects, which of course crossed it with the surrounding varieties.
Without doubt the existence of two color-varieties of the peloric type, one of a very dark red,
indicating the "Black prince" variety as the pollen-parent, and the other with a white tube
of the corolla, recalling the form known as "Delila," is due to these crossings. I had last year
(1903) a large lot of plants, partly normal and partly peloric, but evidently of hybrid origin,
from seeds from this nursery, showing moreover all intermediate steps
between nearly wholly peloric individuals and apparently normal ones.

I have saved the seeds of the isolated types and before seeing the
flowers of their offspring, nothing can be said about the purity and
constancy of the type, when freed from hybrid admixtures.

The peloric snapdragon has five small unequal spurs at the base of its long tube, and in this
respect agrees with the peloric toad-flax.

Other pelories are terminal and quite regular, and occur in some species of Linaria, where I
observed them in Linaria dalmatica. The [483] terminal flowers of many branches were large
and beautifully peloric, bearing five long and equal spurs. About their origin and inheritance
nothing is known.

A most curious terminal pelory is that of the common foxglove or Digitalis
purpurea. As we have seen in a previous lecture, it is an old variety.

BANKING

There has been pending in Congress for nearly three years banking legislation to clarify the
national bank act and reasonably to increase the powers of the national banks. I believe that
within the limitation of sound banking principles Congress should now and for the future place
the national banks upon a fair equality with their competitors, the State banks, and I trust
that means may be found so that the differences on branch-banking legislation between the Senate
and the House of Representatives may be settled along sound lines and the legislation promptly
enacted.

It would be difficult to overestimate the service which the Federal reserve system has already
rendered to the country. It is necessary only to recall the chaotic condition of our banking
organization at the time the Federal reserve system was put into operation. The old system
consisted of a vast number of independent banking units, with scattered bank reserves which
never could be mobilized in times of greatest need. In spite of vast banking resources, there
was no coordination of reserves or any credit elasticity. As a consequence, a strain was felt
even during crop-moving periods and when it was necessary to meet other seasonal and regularly
recurring needs.

The Federal reserve system is not a panacea for all economic or financial ills. It can not
prevent depression in certain industries which are experiencing overexpansion of production
or contraction of their markets. Its business is to furnish adequate credit and currency facilities.
This it has succeeded in doing, both during the war and in the more difficult period of deflation
and readjustment which followed. It enables us to look to the future with confidence and to
make plans far ahead, based on the belief that the Federal reserve system will exercise a steadying
influence on credit conditions and thereby prevent tiny sudden or severe reactions from the
period of prosperity which we are now enjoying. In order that these plans may go forward, action
should be taken at the present session on the question of renewing the banks' charters and
thereby insuring a continuation of the policies and present usefulness of the Federal reserve
system.

FEDERAL REGULATION

I am in favor of reducing, rather than expanding, Government bureaus which seek to regulate
and control the business activities of the people. Everyone is aware that abuses exist and
will exist so long as we are limited by human imperfections. Unfortunately, human nature can
not be changed by an act of the legislature. When practically the sole remedy for many evils
lies in the necessity of the people looking out for themselves and reforming their own abuses,
they will find that they are relying on a false security if the Government assumes to hold
out the promise that it is looking out for them and providing reforms for them. This principle
is preeminently applicable to the National Government. It is too much assumed that because
an abuse exists it is the business of the National Government to provide a remedy. The presumption
should be that it is the business of local and State governments. Such national action results
in encroaching upon the salutary independence of the States and by undertaking to supersede
their natural authority fills the land with bureaus and departments which are undertaking to
do what it is impossible for them to accomplish and brings our whole system of government into
disrespect and disfavor. We ought to maintain high standards. We ought to punish wrongdoing.
Society has not only the privilege but the absolute duty of protecting itself and its individuals.
But we can not accomplish this end by adopting a wrong method. Permanent success lies in local,
rather than national action. Unless the locality rises to its own requirements, there is an
almost irresistible impulse for the National Government to intervene. The States and the Nation
should both realize that such action is to be adopted only as a last resort.

THE NEGRO

The social well-being of our country requires our constant effort for the amelioration of race
prejudice and the extension to all elements of equal opportunity and equal protection under
the laws which are guaranteed by the. Constitution. The Federal Government especially is charged
with this obligation in behalf of the colored people of the Nation. Not only their remarkable
progress, their devotion and their loyalty, but, our duty to ourselves under our claim that
we are an enlightened people requires us to use all our power to protect them from the crime
of lynching. Although violence of this kind has very much decreased, while any of it remains
we can not justify neglecting to make every effort to eradicate it by law.

The education of the colored race under Government encouragement is proceeding successfully
and ought to have continuing support. An increasing need exists for properly educated and trained
medical skill to be devoted to the service of this race.

INSULAR POSSESSIONS

This Government holds in sacred trusteeship islands which it has acquired in the East and West
Indies. In all of them the people are more prosperous than at any previous time. A system of
good roads, education, and general development is in progress. The people are better governed
than ever before and generally content.

In the Philippine Islands Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood has been Governor General for five years and
has administered his office with tact and ability greatly to the success of the Filipino people.
These are a proud and sensitive race, who are making such progress with our cooperation that
we can view the results of this experiment with great satisfaction. As we are attempting to
assist this race toward self-government, we should look upon their wishes with great respect,
granting their requests immediately when they are right, yet maintaining a frank firmness in
refusing when they are wrong. We shall measure their progress in no small part by their acceptance
of the terms of the organic law under which the islands are governed and their faithful observance
of its provisions. Need exists for clarifying the duties of the auditor and declaring them
to be what everyone had supposed they were. We have placed our own expenditures under the supervision
of the Comptroller General. It is not likely that the expenditures in the Philippine Islands
need less supervision than our own. The Governor General is hampered in his selection of subordinates
by the necessity of securing a confirmation, which has oftentimes driven him to the expediency
of using Army officers in work for which civilian experts would be much better fitted. Means
should be provided for this and such other purposes as he may require out of the revenue which
this Government now turns back to the Philippine treasury.

In order that these possessions might stiffer no seeming neglect, I have recently sent Col.
Carmi A. Thompson to the islands to make a survey in cooperation with the Governor General
to suggest what might be done to improve conditions. Later, I may make a more extended report
including recommendations. The economic development of the islands is very important. They
ought not to be turned back to the people until they are both politically fitted for self-government
and economically independent. Large areas are adaptable to the production of rubber. No one
contemplates any time in the future either under the present or a more independent form of
government when we should not assume some responsibility for their defense. For their economic
advantage, for the employment of their people, and as a contribution to our power of defense
which could not be carried on without rubber, I believe this industry should be encouraged.
It is especially adapted to the Filipino people themselves, who might cultivate it individually
on a small acreage. It could be carried on extensively by American capital in a way to furnish
employment at good wages. I am opposed to the promotion of any policy that does not provide
for absolute freedom on the part of the wage earners and do not think we should undertake to
give power for large holdings of land in the islands against the opposition of the people of
the locality. Any development of the islands must be solely with the first object of benefiting
the people of the islands. At an early day, these possessions should be taken out from under
all military control and administered entirely on the civil side of government.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

Our policy of national defense is not one of making war, but of insuring peace. The land and
sea force of America, both in its domestic and foreign implications, is distinctly a peace
force. It is an arm of the police power to guarantee order and the execution of the law at
home and security to our citizens abroad. No self-respecting nation would neglect to provide
an army and navy proportionate to its population, the extent of its territory, and the dignity
of the place which it occupies in the world. When it is considered that no navy in the world,
with one exception, approaches ours and none surpasses it, that our Regular Army of about 115,000
men is the equal of any other like number of troops, that our entire permanent and reserve
land and sea force trained and training consists of a personnel of about 610,000, and that
our annual appropriations are about $680,000,000 a year, expended under the direction of an
exceedingly competent staff, it can not be said that our country is neglecting its national
defense. It is true that a cult of disparagement exists, but that candid examination made by
the Congress through its various committees has always reassured the country and demonstrated
that it is maintaining the most adequate defensive forces in these present years that it has
ever supported in time of peace.

This general policy should be kept in effect. Here and there temporary changes may be made
in personnel to meet requirements in other directions. Attention should be given to submarines,
cruisers, and air forces. Particular points may need strengthening, but as a whole our military
power is sufficient.

The one weak place in the whole line is our still stupendous war debt. In any modern campaign
the dollars are the shock troops. With a depleted treasury in the rear, no army can maintain
itself in the field. A country loaded with debt is a country devoid of the first line of defense.
Economy is the handmaid of preparedness. If we wish to be able to defend ourselves to the full
extent of our power in the future, we shall discharge as soon as possible the financial burden
of the last war. Otherwise we would face a crisis with a part of our capital resources already
expended.

The amount and kind of our military equipment is preeminently a question for the decision of
the Congress, after giving due consideration to the advice of military experts and the available
public revenue. Nothing is more laudable than the cooperation of the agricultural and industrial
resources of the country for the purpose of supplying the needs of national defense. In time
of peril the people employed in these interests volunteered in a most self-sacrificing way,
often at the nominal charge of a dollar a year. But the Army and Navy are not supported for
the benefit of supply concerns; supply concerns are supported for the benefit of the Army and
Navy. The distribution of orders on what is needed from different concerns for the purpose
of keeping up equipment and organization is perfectly justified, but any attempt to prevail
upon the Government to purchase beyond its needs ought not to be tolerated. It is eminently
fair that those who deal with the Government should do so at a reasonable profit. However,
public money is expended not that some one may profit by it, but in order to serve a public
purpose.

While our policy of national defense will proceed in order that we may be independent and self-sufficient,
I am opposed to engaging in any attempt at competitive armaments. No matter how much or how
little some other country may feel constrained to provide, we can well afford to set the example,
not of being dictated to by others, but of adopting our own standards. We are strong enough
to pursue that method, which will be a most wholesome model for the rest of the world. We are
eminently peaceful, but we are by no means weak. While we submit our differences with others,
not to the adjudication of force, but of reason, it is not because we are unable to defend
our rights. While we are doing our best to eliminate all resort to war for the purpose of settling
disputes, we can not but remember that the peace we now enjoy had to be won by the sword and
that if the rights of our country are to be defended we can not rely for that purpose upon
anyone but ourselves. We can not shirk the responsibility, which is the first requisite of
all government, of preserving its own integrity and maintaining the rights of its own citizens.
It is only in accordance with these principles that we can establish any lasting foundations
for an honorable and permanent peace.

It is for these reasons that our country, like any other country, proposes to provide itself
with an army and navy supported by a merchant marine. Yet these are not for competition with
any other power. For years we have besought nations to disarm. We have recently expressed our
willingness at Geneva to enter into treaties for the limitation of all types of warships according
to the ratio adopted at the Washington Conference. This offer is still pending. While we are
and shall continue to be armed it is not as a menace, but rather a common assurance of tranquility
to all the peaceloving people of the world. For us to do any less would be to disregard our
obligations, evade our responsibilities, and jeopardize our national honor.

VETERANS

This country, not only because it is bound by honor but because of the satisfaction derived
from it, has always lavished its bounty upon its veterans. For years a service pension has
been bestowed upon the Grand Army on reaching a certain age. Like provision has been made for
the survivors of the Spanish War. A liberal future compensation has been granted to all the
veterans of the World War. But it is in the case of the, disabled and the dependents that the
Government exhibits its greatest solicitude. This work is being well administered by the Veterans'
Bureau. The main unfinished feature is that of hospitalization. This requirement is being rapidly
met. Various veteran bodies will present to you recommendations which should have your careful
consideration. At the last session we increased our annual expenditure for pensions and relief
on account of the veterans of three wars. While I approve of proper relief for all suffering,
I do not favor any further extension of our pension system at this time.

ALIEN PROPERTY

We still have in the possession of the Government the alien property. It has always been the
policy of America to hold that private enemy property should not be confiscated in time of
war. This principle we have scrupulously observed. As this property is security for the claims
of our citizens and our Government, we can not relinquish it without adequate provision for
their reimbursement. Legislation for the return of this property, accompanied by suitable provisions
for the liquidation of the claims of our citizens and our Treasury, should be adopted. If our
Government releases to foreigners the security which it holds for Americans, it must at the
same time provide satisfactory safeguards for meeting American claims.

PROHIBITION

The duly authorized public authorities of this country have made prohibition the law of the
land. Acting under the Constitution the Congress and the legislatures of practically all the,
States have adopted legislation for its enforcement. Some abuses have arisen which require
reform. Under the law the National Government has entrusted to the Treasury Department the
especial duty of regulation and enforcement. Such supplementary legislation as it requires
to meet existing conditions should be carefully and speedily enacted. Failure to support the
Constitution and observe the law ought not to be tolerated by public opinion. Especially those
in public places, who have taken their oath to support the Constitution, ought to be most scrupulous
in its observance. Officers of the Department of Justice throughout the country should be vigilant
in enforcing the law, but local authorities, which had always been mainly responsible for the
enforcement of law in relation to intoxicating liquor, ought not to seek evasion by attempting
to shift the burden wholly upon the Federal agencies. Under the Constitution the States are
jointly charged with the Nation in providing for the enforcement of the prohibition amendment.
Some people do not like the amendment, some do not like other parts of the Constitution, some
do not like any of it. Those who entertain such sentiments have a perfect right to seek through
legal methods for a change. But for any of our inhabitants to observe such parts of the Constitution
as they like, while disregarding others, is a doctrine that would break down all protection
of life and property and destroy the American system of ordered liberty.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

The foreign policy of this Government is well known. It is one of peace based on that mutual
respect that arises from mutual regard for international rights and the discharge of international
obligations. It is our purpose to promote understanding and good will between ourselves and
all other people. The American people are altogether lacking in an appreciation of the tremendous
good fortune that surrounds their international position. We have no traditional enemies. We
are not embarrassed over any disputed territory. We have no possessions that are coveted by
others; they have none that are coveted by us. Our borders are unfortified. We fear no one;
no one fears us. All the world knows that the whole extent of our influence is against war
and in favor of peace, against the use of force and in favor of negotiation, arbitration, and
adjudication as a method of adjusting international differences. We look with disfavor upon
all aggressive warfare. We are strong enough so that no one can charge us with weakness if
we are slow to anger. Our place is sufficiently established so that we need not be sensitive
over trifles. Our resources, are large enough so that we can afford to be generous. At the
same time we are a nation among nations and recognize a responsibility not only to ourselves,
but in the interests of a stable and enlightened civilization, to protect and defend the international
rights of our Government and our citizens.

It is because of our historical detachment and the generations of comparative indifference
toward it by other nations that our public is inclined to consider altogether too seriously
the reports that we are criticized abroad. We never had a larger foreign trade than at the
present time. Our good offices were never more sought and the necessity for our assistance
and cooperation was never more universally declared in any time of peace. We know that the
sentiments which we entertain toward all other nations are those of the most sincere friendship
and good will and of all unbounded desire to help, which we are perfectly willing to have judged
by their fruits. In our efforts to adjust our international obligations we have met with a
response which, when everything is considered, I believe history will record as a most remarkable
and gratifying demonstration of the sanctity with which civilized nations undertake to discharge
their mutual obligations. Debt settlements have been negotiated with practically all of those
who owed us and all finally adjusted but two, which are, in process of ratification. When we
consider the real sacrifice that will be necessary on the part of other nations, considering
all their circumstances, to meet their agreed payments, we ought to hold them in increased
admiration and respect. It is true that we have extended to them very generous treatment, but
it is also true that they have agreed to repay its all that we loaned to them and some interest.

A special conference on the Chinese customs tariff provided for by the treaty between the nine
powers relating to the Chinese customs tariff signed at Washington on February 6, 1922, was
called by the Chinese Government to meet at Peking, on October 26, 1925. We participated in
this conference through fully empowered delegates and, with good will, endeavored to cooperate
with the other participating powers with a view to putting into effect promises made to China
at the Washington conference, and considering any reasonable proposal that might be made by
the Chinese Government for the revision of the treaties on the subject of China's tariff. With
these aims in view the American delegation at the outset of the conference proposed to put
into effect the surtaxes provided for by the Washington treaty and to proceed immediately to
the negotiation of a treaty, which, among other things, was to make provision for the abolition
of taxes collected on goods in transit, remove the tariff restrictions in existing treaties,
and put into effect the national tariff law of China.

Early in April of the present year the central Chinese Government was ousted from power by
opposing warring factions. It became impossible under the circumstances to continue the negotiations.
Finally, on July 3, the delegates of the foreign powers, including those of the United States,
issued a statement expressing their unanimous and earnest desire to proceed with the work of
the conference at the earliest possible moment when the delegates of the Chinese Government
are in a position to resume discussions with the foreign delegates of the problems before the
conference. We are prepared to resume the negotiations thus interrupted whenever a Government
representing the Chinese people and acting on their behalf presents itself. The fact that constant
warfare between contending Chinese factions has rendered it impossible to bring these negotiations
to a successful conclusion is a matter of deep regret. Throughout these conflicts we have maintained
a position of the most careful neutrality. Our naval vessels in Asiatic waters, pursuant to
treaty rights, have been used only for the protection of American citizens.

Silas H. Strawn, Esq., was sent to China as American commissioner to cooperate with commissioners
of the other powers in the establishment of a commission to inquire into the present practice
of extraterritorial jurisdiction in China, with a view to reporting to the Governments of the
several powers their findings of fact in regard to these matters. The commission commenced
its work in January, 1926, and agreed upon a joint report which was signed on September 16,
1926. The commission's report has been received and is being studied with a view to determining
our future policy in regard to the question of extraterritorial privileges under treaties between
the United States and China.

The Preparatory Commission for the Disarmament Conference met at Geneva on May 18 and its work
has been proceeding almost continuously since that date. It would be premature to attempt to
form a judgment as to the progress that has been made. The commission has had before it a comprehensive
list of questions touching upon all aspects of the question of the limitation of armament.
In the commission's discussions many differences of opinion have developed. However, I am hopeful
that at least some measure of agreement will be reached as the discussions continue. The American
representation on the commission has consistently tried to be helpful, and has kept before
it the practical objective to which the commission is working, namely, actual agreements for
the limitation of armaments. Our representatives will continue their work in that direction.

One of the most encouraging features of the commission's work thus far has been the agreement
in principle among the naval experts of a majority of the powers parties to the Washington
treaty limiting naval armament upon methods and standards for the comparison and further limitation
of naval armament. It is needless to say that at the proper time I shall be prepared to proceed
along practical lines to the conclusion of agreements carrying further the work begun at the
Washington Conference in 1921.

DEPARTMENT REPORTS

Many important subjects which it is impossible even to mention in the short space of an annual
message you will find fully discussed in the departmental reports. A failure to include them
here is not to be taken as indicating any lack of interest, but only a disinclination to state
inadequately what has been much better done in other documents.

THE CAPITAL CITY

We are embarking on an ambitious building program for the city of Washington. The Memorial
Bridge is under way with all that it holds for use and beauty. New buildings are soon contemplated.
This program should represent the best that exists in the art and science of architecture.
Into these structures which must be considered as of a permanent nature ought to go the aspirations
of the Nation, its ideals expressed in forms of beauty. If our country wishes to compete with
others, let it not be in the support of armaments but in the making of a beautiful capital
city. Let it express the soul of America. Whenever an American is at the seat of his Government,
however traveled and cultured he may be, he ought to find a city of stately proportion, symmetrically
laid out and adorned with the best that there is in architecture, which would arouse his imagination
and stir his patriotic pride. In the coming years Washington should be not only the art center
of our own country but the art center of the world. Around it should center all that is best
in science, in learning, in letters, and in art. These are the results that justify the creation
of those national resources with which we have been favored.

AMERICAN IDEALS

America is not and must not be a country without ideals. They are useless if they are only
visionary; they are only valuable if they are practical. A nation can not dwell constantly
on the mountain tops. It has to be replenished and sustained through the ceaseless toil of
the less inspiring valleys. But its face ought always to be turned upward, its vision ought
always to be fixed on high.

We need ideals that can be followed in daily life, that can be translated into terms of the
home. We can not expect to be relieved from toil, but we do expect to divest it of degrading
conditions. Work is honorable; it is entitled to an honorable recompense. We must strive mightily,
but having striven there is a defect in our political and social system if we are not in general
rewarded with success. To relieve the land of the burdens that came from the war, to release
to the individual more of the fruits of his own industry, to increase his earning capacity
and decrease his hours of labor, to enlarge the circle of his vision through good roads and
better transportation, to lace before him the opportunity for education both in science and
in art, to leave him free to receive the inspiration of religion, all these are ideals which
deliver him from the servitude of the body and exalt him to the service of the soul. Through
this emancipation from the things that are material, we broaden our dominion over the things
that are spiritual.

***

State of the Union Address Calvin Coolidge December 6, 1927

Members of the Congress:

It is gratifying to report that for the fourth consecutive year the state of the Union in general
is good. We are at peace. The country as a whole has had a prosperity never exceeded. Wages
are at their highest range, employment is plentiful. Some parts of agriculture and industry
have lagged; some localities have suffered from storm and flood. But such losses have been
absorbed without serious detriment to our great economic structure. Stocks of goods are moderate
and a wholesome caution is prevalent. Rates of interest for industry, agriculture, and government
have been reduced. Savers and investors are providing capital for new construction in industry
and public works. The purchasing power of agriculture has increased. If the people maintain
that confidence which they are entitled to have in themselves, in each other, and in America,
a comfortable prosperity will continue.

CONSTRUCTIVE ECONOMY

Without constructive economy in Government expenditures we should not now be enjoying these
results or these prospects. Because we are not now physically at war, some people are disposed
to forget that our war debt still remains. The Nation must make financial sacrifices, accompanied
by a stern self-denial in public expenditures, until we have conquered the disabilities of
our public finance. While our obligation to veterans and dependents is large and continuing,
the heavier burden of the national debt is being steadily eliminated. At the end of this fiscal
year it will be reduced from about $26,600,000,000 to about $17,975,000,000. Annual interest,
including war savings, will have been reduced from $1,055,000,000 to $670,0001,000. The sacrifices
of the people, the economy of the Government, are showing remarkable results. They should be
continued for the purpose of relieving the Nation of the burden of interest and debt and releasing
revenue for internal improvements and national development.

Not only the amount, but the rate, of Government interest has been reduced. Callable bonds
have been refunded and paid, so that during this year the average rate of interest on the present
public debt for the first time fell below 4 per cent. Keeping the credit of the Nation high
is a tremendously profitable operation.

TAX REDUCTION

The immediate fruit of economy and the retirement of the public debt is tax reduction. The
annual saving in interest between 1925 and 1929 is $212,000,000. Without this no bill to relieve
the taxpayers would be worth proposing. The three measures already enacted leave our Government
revenues where they are not oppressive. Exemptions, have been increased until 115,000,000 people
make but 2,500,000 individual taxable returns, so that further reduction should be mainly for
the purpose of removing inequalities. The Secretary of the Treasury has recommended a measure
which would give us a much better balanced system of taxation and without oppression produce
sufficient revenue. It has my complete support.

Unforeseen contingencies requiring money are always arising. Our probable surplus for June
30, 1929, is small. A slight depression in business would greatly reduce our revenue because
of our present method of taxation. The people ought to take no selfish attitude of pressing
for removing moderate and fair taxes which might produce a deficit. We must keep our budget
balanced for each year. That is the corner stone of our national credit, the trifling price
we pay to command the lowest rate of interest of any great power in the world. Any surplus
can be applied to debt reduction, and debt reduction is tax reduction. Under the present circumstances
it would be far better to leave the rates as they are than to enact a bill carrying the peril
of a deficit. This is not a problem to be approached in a narrow or partisan spirit. All of
those who participate in finding a reasonable solution will be entitled to participate in any
credit that accrues from it without regard to party. The Congress has already demonstrated
that tax legislation can be removed from purely political consideration into the realm of patriotic
business principles.

Any bill for tax reduction should be written by those who are responsible for raising, managing,
and expending the finances of the Government. If special interests, too often selfish, always
uninformed of the national needs as a whole, with hired agents using their proposed beneficiaries
as engines of propaganda, are permitted to influence the withdrawal of their property from
taxation, we shall have a law that is unbalanced and unjust, bad for business, bad for the
country, probably resulting in a deficit, with disastrous financial Consequences. The Constitution
has given the Members of the Congress sole authority to decide what tax measures shall be presented
for approval. While welcoming information from any quarter, the Congress should continue to
exercise its own judgment in a matter so vital and important to all the interests of the country
as taxation.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

Being a nation relying not on force, but on fair dealing and good will, to maintain peace with
others, we have provided a moderate military force in a form adapted solely to defense. It
should be continued with a very generous supply of officers and with the present base of personnel,
subject to fluctuations which may be temporarily desirable.

The five-year program for our air forces is in keeping with this same policy and commensurate
with the notable contributions of America to the science of aeronautics. The provisions of
the law lately enacted are being executed as fast as the practical difficulties of an orderly
and stable development permit.

While our Army is small, prudence requires that it should be kept in a high state of efficiency
and provided with such supplies as would permit of its immediate expansion. The garrison ration
has lately been increased. Recommendations for an appropriation of $6,166,000 for new housing
made to the previous Congress failed to pass. While most of the Army is well housed, some of
it which is quartered in wartime training camps is becoming poorly housed. In the past three
years $12,533,000 have been appropriated for reconstruction and repairs, and an authorization
has been approved of $22,301,000 for new housing, under which $8,070,000 has already been appropriated.
A law has also been passed, complying with the request of the War Department, allocating funds
received from the sale of buildings and land for housing purposes. The work, however, is not
completed, so that other appropriations are being recommended.

Our Navy is likewise a weapon of defense. We have a foreign commerce and ocean lines of trade
unsurpassed by any other country. We have outlying territory in the two great oceans and long
stretches of seacoast studded with the richest cities in the world. We are responsible for
the protection of a large population and the greatest treasure ever bestowed upon any people.
We are charged with an international duty of defending the Panama Canal. To meet these responsibilities
we need a very substantial sea armament. It needs aircraft development, which is being provided
under the five-year program. It needs submarines as soon as the department decides upon the
best type of construction. It needs airplane carriers and a material addition to its force
of cruisers. We can plan for the future and begin a moderate building program.

This country has put away the Old World policy of competitive armaments. It can never be relieved
of the responsibility of adequate national defense. We have one treaty secured by an unprecedented
attitude of generosity on our part for a limitation in naval armament. After most careful preparation,
extending over months, we recently made every effort to secure a three-power treaty to the
same end. We were granted much cooperation by Japan, but we were unable to come to an agreement
with Great Britain. While the results of the conference were of considerable value, they were
mostly of a negative character. We know now that no agreement can be reached which will be
inconsistent with a considerable building program on our part. We are ready and willing to
continue the preparatory investigations on the general subject of limitation of armaments which
have been started under the auspices of the League of Nations.

We have a considerable cruiser tonnage, but a part of it is obsolete. Everyone knew that had
a three-power agreement been reached it would have left us with the necessity of continuing
our building program. The failure to agree should not cause us to build either more or less
than we otherwise should. Any future treaty of limitation will call on us for more ships. We
should enter on no competition. We should refrain from no needful program. It should be made
clear to all the world that lacking a definite agreement, the attitude of any other country
is not to be permitted to alter our own policy. It should especially be demonstrated that propaganda
will not cause us to change our course. Where there is no treaty limitation, the size of the
Navy which America is to have will be solely for America to determine. No outside influence
should enlarge it or diminish it. But it should be known to all that our military power holds
no threat of aggrandizement. It is a guaranty of peace and security at home, and when it goes
abroad it is an instrument for the protection of the legal rights of our citizens under international
law, a refuge in time of disorder, and always the servant of world peace. Wherever our flag
goes the rights of humanity increase.

MERCHANT MARINE

The United States Government fleet is transporting a large amount of freight and reducing its
drain on the Treasury. The Shipping Board is constantly under pressure, to which it too often
yields, to protect private interests, rather than serve the public welfare. More attention
should be given to merchant ships as an auxiliary of the Navy. The possibility of including
their masters and crews in the Naval Reserve, with some reasonable compensation, should be
thoroughly explored as a method of encouraging private operation of shipping. Public operation
is not a success. No investigation, of which I have caused several to be made, has failed to
report that it could not succeed or to recommend speedy transfer to private ownership. Our
exporters and importers are both indifferent about using American ships. It should be our policy
to keep our present vessels in repair and dispose of them as rapidly as possible, rather than
undertake any new construction. Their operation is a burden on the National Treasury, for which
we are not receiving sufficient benefits.

COMMERCIAL AVIATION

A rapid growth is taking place in aeronautics. The Department of Commerce has charge of the
inspection and licensing system and the construction of national airways. Almost 8,000 miles
are already completed and about 4,000 miles more contemplated. Nearly 4,400 miles are now equipped
and over 3,000 miles more will have lighting and emergency landing fields by next July. Air
mail contracts are expected to cover 24 of these lines. Daily airway flying is nearly 15,000
miles and is expected to reach 25,000 miles early next year.

Flights for other purposes exceed 22,000 miles each day. Over 900 airports, completed and uncompleted,
have been laid out. The demand for aircraft has greatly increased. The policy already adopted
by the Congress is producing the sound development of this coming industry.

WESTERN HEMISPHERE AIR MAIL

Private enterprise is showing much interest in opening up aviation service to Mexico and Central
and South America. We are particularly solicitous to have the United States take a leading
part in this development. It is understood that the governments of our sister countries would
be willing to cooperate. Their physical features, the undeveloped state of their transportation,
make an air service especially adaptable to their usage. The Post Office Department should
be granted power to make liberal long-term contracts for carrying our mail, and authority should
be given to the Army and the Navy to detail aviators and planes to cooperate with private enterprise
in establishing such mail service with the consent of the countries concerned. A committee
of the Cabinet will later present a report on this subject.

GOOD ROADS

The importance and benefit of good roads is more and more coming to be appreciated. The National
Government has been making liberal contributions to encourage their construction. The results
and benefits have been very gratifying. National participation, however, should be confined
to trunk-line systems. The national tax on automobiles is now nearly sufficient to meet this
outlay. This tax is very small, and on low-priced cars is not more than $2 or $3 each year.

While the advantage of having good roads is very large, the desire for improved highways is
not limited to our own country. It should and does include all the Western Hemisphere. The
principal points in Canada are already accessible. We ought to lend our encouragement in any
way we can for more good roads to all the principal points in this hemisphere south of the
Rio Grande. It has been our practice to supply these countries with military and naval advisers,
when they have requested it, to assist them in national defense. The arts of peace are even
more important to them and to us. Authority should be given by law to provide them at their
request with engineering advisers for the construction of roads and bridges. In some of these
countries already wonderful progress is being made in road building, but the engineering features
are often very exacting and the financing difficult. Private interests should look with favor
on all reasonable loans sought by these countries to open such main lines of travel.

This general subject has been promoted by the Pan American Congress of Highways, which will
convene again at Rio de Janeiro in July, 1928. It is desirable that the Congress should provide
for the appointment of delegates to represent the Government of the United States.

CUBAN PARCEL POST

We have a temporary parcel-post convention with Cuba. The advantage of it is all on our side.
During 1926 we shipped twelve times as many parcels, weighing twenty-four times as much, as
we received. This convention was made on the understanding that we would repeal an old law
prohibiting the importation of cigars and cigarettes in quantities less than 3,000 enacted
in 1866 to discourage smuggling, for which it has long been unnecessary. This law unjustly
discriminates against an important industry of Cuba. Its repeal has been recommended by the
Treasury and Post Office Departments. Unless this is done our merchants and railroads will
find themselves deprived of this large parcel-post business after the 1st of next March, the
date of the expiration of the convention, which has been extended upon the specific understanding
that it would expire at that time unless this legislation was enacted. We purchase large quantities
of tobacco made in Cuba. It is not probable that our purchases would be any larger if this
law was repealed, while it would be an advantage to many other industries in the United States.

INSULAR POSSESSIONS

Conditions in the Philippine Islands have been steadily improved. Contentment and good order
prevail. Roads, irrigation works, harbor improvements, and public buildings are being constructed.
Public education and sanitation have been advanced. The Government is in a sound financial
condition. These immediate results were especially due to the administration of Gov. Gen. Leonard
Wood. The six years of his governorship marked a distinct improvement in the islands and rank
as one of the outstanding accomplishments of this distinguished man. His death is a loss to
the Nation and the islands.

Greater progress could be made, more efficiency could be put into administration, if the Congress
would undertake to expend, through its appropriating power, all or a part of the customs revenues
which are now turned over to the Philippine treasury. The powers of the auditor of the islands
also need revision and clarification. The government of the islands is about 98 per cent in
the hands of the Filipinos. An extension of the policy of self-government will be hastened
by the demonstration on their part of their desire and their ability to carry out cordially
and efficiently the provisions of the organic law enacted by the Congress for the government
of the islands. It would be well for a committee of the Congress to visit the islands every
two years.

A fair degree of progress is being made in Porto Rico. Its agricultural products are increasing;
its treasury position, which has given much concern, shows improvement. I am advised by the
governor that educational facilities are still lacking. Roads are being constructed, which
he represents are the first requisite for building schoolhouses. The loyalty of the island
to the United States is exceedingly gratifying. A memorial will be presented to you requesting
authority to have the governor elected by the people of Porto Rico. This was never done in
the case of our own Territories. It is admitted that education outside of the towns is as yet
very deficient. Until it has progressed further the efficiency of the government and the happiness
of the people may need the guiding hand of an appointed governor. As it is not contemplated
that any change should be made immediately, the general subject may well have the thoughtful
study of the Congress.

PANAMA CANAL

The number of commercial ships passing through the Panama Canal has increased from 3,967 in
1923 to 5,475 in 1927. The total amount of tolls turned into the Treasury is over $166,000,000,
while all the operations of the canal have yielded a surplus of about $80,000,000. In order
to provide additional storage of water and give some control over the floods of the Chagres
River, it is proposed to erect a dam to cost about $12,000,000 at Alhajuela. It will take some
five years to complete this work.

AGRICULTURE

The past year has seen a marked improvement in the general condition of agriculture. Production
is better balanced and without acute shortage or heavy surplus. Costs have been reduced and
the average output of the worker increased. The level of farm prices has risen while others
have fallen, so that the purchasing power of the farmer is approaching a normal figure. The
individual farmer is entitled to great credit for the progress made since 1921. He has adjusted
his production and through cooperative organizations and other methods improved his marketing.
He is using authenticated facts and employing sound methods which other industries are obliged
to use to secure stability and prosperity. The old-fashioned haphazard system is being abandoned,
economics are being applied to ascertain the best adapted unit of land, diversification is
being promoted, and scientific methods are being used in production, and business principles
in marketing.

Agriculture has not fully recovered from postwar depression. The fact is that economic progress
never marches forward in a straight line. It goes in waves. One part goes ahead, while another
halts and another recedes. Everybody wishes agriculture to prosper. Any sound and workable
proposal to help the farmer will have the earnest support of the Government. Their interests
are not all identical. Legislation should assist as many producers in as many regions as possible.
It should be the aim to assist the farmer to work out his own salvation socially and economically.
No plan will be of any permanent value to him which does not leave him standing on his own
foundation.

In the past the Government has spent vast sums to bring land under cultivation. It is apparent
that this has reached temporarily the saturation point. We have had a surplus of production
and a poor market for land, which has only lately shown signs of improvement. The main problem
which is presented for solution is one of dealing with a surplus of production. It is useless
to propose a temporary expedient. What is needed is permanency and stability. Government price
fixing is known to be unsound and bound to result in disaster. A Government subsidy would work
out in the same way. It can not be sound for all of the people to hire some of the people to
produce a crop which neither the producers nor the rest of the people want.

Price fixing and subsidy will both increase the surplus, instead of diminishing it. Putting
the Government directly into business is merely a combination of subsidy and price fixing aggravated
by political pressure. These expedients would lead logically to telling the farmer by law what
and how much he should plant and where he should plant it, and what and how much he should
sell and where he should sell it. The most effective means of dealing with surplus crops is
to reduce the surplus acreage. While this can not be done by the individual farmer, it can
be done through the organizations already in existence, through the information published by
the Department of Agriculture, and especially through banks and others who supply credit refusing
to finance an acreage manifestly too large.

It is impossible to provide by law for an assured success and prosperity for all those who
engage in farming. If acreage becomes overextended, the Government can not assume responsibility
for it. The Government can, however, assist cooperative associations and other organizations
in orderly marketing and handling a surplus clearly due to weather and seasonal conditions,
in order to save the producer from preventable loss. While it is probably impossible to secure
this result at a single step, and much will have to be worked out by trial and rejection, a
beginning could be made by setting up a Federal board or commission of able and experienced
men in marketing, granting equal advantages under this board to the various agricultural commodities
and sections of the country, giving encouragement to the cooperative movement in agriculture,
and providing a revolving loan fund at a moderate rate of interest for the necessary financing.
Such legislation would lay the foundation for a permanent solution of the surplus problem.

This is not a proposal to lend more money to the farmer, who is already fairly well financed,
but to lend money temporarily to experimental marketing associations which will no doubt ultimately
be financed by the regularly established banks, as were the temporary operations of the War
Finance Corporation. Cooperative marketing especially would be provided with means of buying
or building physical properties.

The National Government has almost entirely relieved the farmer from income taxes by successive
tax reductions, but State and local taxes have increased, putting on him a grievous burden.
A policy of rigid economy should be applied to State and local expenditures. This is clearly
within the legislative domain of the States. The Federal Government has also improved our banking
structure and system of agricultural credits. The farmer will be greatly benefited by similar
action in many States. The Department of Agriculture is undergoing changes in organization
in order more completely to separate the research and regulatory divisions, that each may be
better administered. More emphasis is being placed on the research program, not only by enlarging
the appropriations for State experiment stations but by providing funds for expanding the research
work of the department. It is in this direction that much future progress can be expected.

THE PROTECTIVE TARIFF

The present tariff rates supply the National Treasury with well over $600,000,000 of annual
revenue. Yet, about 65 per cent of our imports come in duty free. Of the remaining 35 per cent
of imports on which duties are laid about 23 per cent consists of luxuries and agricultural
products, and the balance of about 12 per cent, amounting, to around $560,000,000 is made up
of manufactures and merchandise. As no one is advocating any material reduction in the rates
on agriculture or luxuries, it is only the comparatively small amount of about $560,000,000
of other imports that are really considered in any discussion of reducing tariff rates. While
this amount, duty free, would be large enough seriously to depress many lines of business in
our own country, it is of small importance when spread over the rest of the world.

It is often stated that a reduction of tariff rates on industry would benefit agriculture.
It would be interesting to know to what commodities it is thought this could be applied. Everything
the farmer uses in farming is already on the free list. Nearly everything he sells is protected.
It would seem to be obvious that it is better for the country to have the farmer raise food
to supply the domestic manufacturer than the foreign manufacturer. In one case our country
would have only the farmer; in the other it would have the farmer and the manufacturer. Assuming
that Europe would have more money if it sold us larger amounts of merchandise, it is not certain
it would consume more food, or, if it did, that its purchases would be made in this country.
Undoubtedly it would resort to the cheapest market, which is by no means ours. The largest
and best and most profitable market for the farmer in the world is our own domestic market.
Any great increase in manufactured imports means the closing of our own plants. Nothing would
be worse for agriculture.

Probably no one expects a material reduction in the rates on manufactures while maintaining
the rates on agriculture. A material reduction in either would be disastrous to the farmer.
It would mean a general shrinkage of values, a deflation of prices, a reduction of wages, a
general depression carrying our people down to the low standard of living in our competing
countries. It is obvious that this would not improve but destroy our market for imports, which
is best served by maintaining our present high purchasing power under which in the past five
years imports have increased 63 per cent.

FARM LOAN SYSTEM

It is exceedingly important that the Federal land and joint-stock land banks should furnish
the best possible service for agriculture. Certain joint-stock banks have fallen into improper
and unsound practices, resulting in the indictment of the officials of three of them. More
money has been provided for examinations, and at the instance of the Treasury rules and regulations
of the Federal Farm Board have been revised. Early last May three of its members resigned.
Their places were filled with men connected with the War Finance Corporation. Eugene Meyer
being designated as Farm Loan Commissioner. The new members have demonstrated their ability
in the field of agricultural finance in the extensive operations of he War Finance Corporation.
Three joint-stock banks have gone into receivership. It is necessary to preserve the public
confidence in this system in order to find a market for their bonds. A recent flotation was
made at a record low rate of 4 per cent. Careful supervision is absolutely necessary to protect
the investor and enable these banks to exercise their chief function in serving agriculture.

MUSCLE SHOALS

The last year has seen considerable changes in the problem of Muscle Shoals. Development of
other methods show that nitrates can probably be produced at less cost than by the use of hydroelectric
power. Extensive investigation made by the Department of War indicates that the nitrate plants
on this project are of little value for national defense and can probably be disposed of within
two years. The oxidation part of the plants, however, should be retained indefinitely. This
leaves this project mostly concerned with power. It should, nevertheless, continue to be dedicated
to agriculture. It is probable that this desire can be best served by disposing of the plant
and applying the revenues received from it to research for methods of more economical production
of concentrated fertilizer and to demonstrations and other methods of stimulating its use on
the farm. But in disposing of the property preference should be given to proposals to use all
or part of it for nitrate production and fertilizer manufacturing.

FLOOD CONTROL

For many years the Federal Government has been building a system of dikes along the Mississippi
River for protection against high water. During the past season the lower States were overcome
by a most disastrous flood. Many thousands of square miles were inundated a great many lives
were lost, much livestock was drowned, and a very heavy destruction of property was inflicted
upon the inhabitants. The American Red Cross at once went to the relief of the stricken communities.
Appeals for contributions have brought in over $17,000,000. The Federal Government has provided
services, equipment, and supplies probably amounting to about $7,000,000 more. Between $5,000,000
and $10,000,000 in addition have been provided by local railroads, the States, and their political
units. Credits have been arranged by the Farm Loan Board, and three emergency finance corporations
with a total capital of $3,000,000 have insured additional resources to the extent of $12,000,000.
Through these means the 700,000 people in the flooded areas have been adequately supported.
Provision has been made to care for those in need until after the 1st of January.

The Engineering Corps of the Army has contracted to close all breaks in the dike system before
the next season of high water. A most thorough and elaborate survey of the whole situation
has been made and embodied in a report with recommendations for future flood control, which
will be presented to the Congress. The carrying out of their plans will necessarily extend
over a series of years. They will call for a raising and strengthening of the dike system with
provision for emergency spillway's and improvements for the benefit of navigation.

Under the present law the land adjacent to the dikes has paid one-third of the cost of their
construction. This has been a most extraordinary concession from the plan adopted in relation
to irrigation, where the general rule has been that the land benefited should bear the entire
expense. It is true, of course, that the troublesome waters do not originate on the land to
be reclaimed, but it is also true that such waters have a right of way through that section
of the country and the land there is charged with that easement. It is the land of this region
that is to be benefited. To say that it is unable to bear any expense of reclamation is the
same thing as saying that it is not worth reclaiming. Because of expenses incurred and charges
already held against this land, it seems probable that some revision will have to be made concerning
the proportion of cost which it should bear. But it is extremely important that it should pay
enough so that those requesting improvements will be charged with some responsibility for their
cost, and the neighborhood where works are constructed have a pecuniary interest in preventing
waste and extravagance and securing a wise and economical expenditure of public funds.

It is necessary to look upon this emergency as a national disaster. It has been so treated
from its inception. Our whole people have provided with great generosity for its relief. Most
of the departments of the Federal Government have been engaged in the same effort. The governments
of the afflicted areas, both State and municipal, can not be given too high praise for the
courageous and helpful way in which they have come to the rescue of the people. If the sources
directly chargeable can not meet the demand, the National Government should not fail to provide
generous relief. This, however, does not mean restoration. The Government is not an insurer
of its citizens against the hazard of the elements. We shall always have flood and drought,
heat and cold, earthquake and wind, lightning and tidal wave, which are all too constant in
their afflictions. The Government does not undertake to reimburse its citizens for loss and
damage incurred under such circumstances. It is chargeable, however, with the rebuilding of
public works and the humanitarian duty of relieving its citizens from distress.

The people in the flooded area and their representatives have approached this problem in the
most generous and broad-minded way. They should be met with a like spirit on the part of the
National government. This is all one country. The public needs of each part must be provided
for by the public at large. No required relief should be refused. An adequate plan should be
adopted to prevent a recurrence of this disaster in order that the people may restore to productivity
and comfort their fields and their towns.

Legislation by this Congress should be confined to our principal and most pressing problem,
the lower Mississippi, considering tributaries only so far as they materially affect the main
flood problem. A definite Federal program relating to our waterways was proposed when the last
Congress authorized a comprehensive survey of all the important streams of the country in order
to provide for their improvement, including flood control, navigation, power, and irrigation.
Other legislation should wait pending a report on this survey. The recognized needs of the
Mississippi should not be made a vehicle for carrying other projects. All proposals for development
should stand on their own merits. Any other method would result in ill-advised conclusions,
great waste of money, and instead of promoting would delay the orderly and certain utilization
of our water resources.

Very recently several of the New England States have suffered somewhat similarly from heavy
rainfall and high water. No reliable estimate of damage has yet been computed, but it is very
large to private and public property. The Red Cross is generously undertaking what is needed
for immediate relief, repair and reconstruction of houses, restocking of domestic animals,
and food, clothing, and shelter. A considerable sum of money will be available through the
regular channels in the Department of Agriculture for reconstruction of highways. It may be
necessary to grant special aid for this purpose. Complete reports of what is required will
undoubtedly be available early in the session.

INLAND NAVIGATION

The Congress in its last session authorized the general improvements necessary to provide the
Mississippi waterway system with better transportation. Stabilization of the levels of the
Great Lakes and their opening to the sea by an effective shipway remain to be considered. Since
the last session the Board of Engineers of the War Department has made a report on the proposal
for a canal through the State of New York, and the Joint Board of Engineers, representing Canada
and the United States, has finished a report on the St. Lawrence River. Both of these boards
conclude that the St. Lawrence project is cheaper, affords a more expeditious method of placing
western products in European markets, and will cost less to operate. The State Department has
requested the Canadian Government to negotiate treaties necessary to provide for this improvement.
It will also be necessary to secure an agreement with Canada to put in works necessary to prevent
fluctuation in the levels of the Great Lakes.

Legislation is desirable for the construction of a dam at Boulder Canyon on the Colorado River,
primarily as a method of flood control and irrigation. A secondary result would be a considerable
power development and a source of domestic water supply for southern California. Flood control
is clearly a national problem, and water supply is a Government problem, but every other possibility
should be exhausted before the Federal Government becomes engaged in the power business. The
States which are interested ought to reach mutual agreement. This project is in reality their
work. If they wish the Federal Government to undertake it, they should not hesitate to make
the necessary concessions to each other. This subject is fully discussed in the annual report
of the Secretary of the Interior. The Columbia River Basin project is being studied and will
be one to be considered at some future time.

The Inland Waterways Corporation is proving successful and especially beneficial to agriculture.
A survey is being made to determine its future needs. It has never been contemplated that if
inland rivers were opened to navigation it would then be necessary for the Federal Government
to provide the navigation. Such a request is very nearly the equivalent of a declaration that
their navigation is not profitable, that the commodities which they are to carry can be taken
at a cheaper rate by some other method, in which case the hundreds of millions of dollars proposed
to be expended for opening rivers to navigation would be not only wasted, but would entail
further constant expenditures to carry the commodities of private persons for less than cost.

The policy is well established that the Government should open public highways on land and
on water, but for use of the public in their private capacity. It has put on some demonstration
barge lines, but always with the expectation that if they prove profitable they would pass
into private hands and if they do not prove profitable they will be withdrawn. The problems
of transportation over inland waterways should be taken up by private enterprise, so that the
public will have the advantage of competition in service. It is expected that some of our lines
can be sold, some more demonstration work done, and that with the completion of the Ohio project
a policy of private operation can be fully developed.

PROHIBITION

After more than two generations of constant debate, our country adopted a system of national
prohibition under all the solemnities involved in an amendment to the Federal Constitution.
In obedience to this mandate the Congress and the States, with one or two notable exceptions,
have passed required laws for its administration and enforcement. This imposes upon the citizenship
of the country, and especially on all public officers, not only the duty to enforce, but the
obligation to observe the sanctions of this constitutional provision and its resulting laws.
If this condition could be secured, all question concerning prohibition would cease. The Federal
Government is making every effort to accomplish these results through careful organization,
large appropriations, and administrative effort. Smuggling has been greatly cut down, the larger
sources of supply for illegal sale have been checked, and by means of injunction and criminal
prosecution the process of enforcement is being applied. The same vigilance on the part of
local governments would render these efforts much more successful. The Federal authorities
propose to discharge their obligation for enforcement to the full extent of their ability.

THE NEGRO

History does not anywhere record so much progress made in the same length of time as that which
has been accomplished by the Negro race in the United States since the Emancipation Proclamation.
They have come up from slavery to be prominent in education, the professions, art, science,
agriculture, banking, and commerce. It is estimated that 50,000 of them are on the Government
pay rolls, drawing about $50,000,000 each year. They have been the recipients of presidential
appointments and their professional ability has arisen to a sufficiently high plane so that
they have been intrusted with the entire management and control of the great veterans hospital
at Tuskegee, where their conduct has taken high rank. They have shown that they have been worthy
of all the encouragement which they have received. Nevertheless, they are too often subjected
to thoughtless and inconsiderate treatment, unworthy alike of the white or colored races. They
have especially been made the target of the foul crime of lynching. For several years these
acts of unlawful violence had been diminishing. In the last year they have shown an increase.
Every principle of order and law and liberty is opposed to this crime. The Congress should
enact any legislation it can under the Constitution to provide for its elimination.

AMERICAN INDIAN

The condition of the American Indian has much improved in recent years. Full citizenship was
bestowed upon them on June 2, 1924, and appropriations for their care and advancement have
been increased. Still there remains much to be done.

Notable increases in appropriations for the several major functions performed by the Department
of the Interior on behalf of the Indians have marked the last five years. In that time, successive
annual increases in appropriations for their education total $1,804,325; for medical care,
$578,000; and for industrial advancement, $205,000; or $2,582,325 more than would have been
spent in the same period on the basis of appropriations for 1923 and the preceding years.

The needs along health, educational, industrial and social lines however, are great, and the
Budget estimates for 1929 include still further increases for Indian administration.

To advance the time when the Indians may become self-sustaining, it is my belief that the Federal
Government should continue to improve the facilities for their care, and as rapidly as possible
turn its responsibility over to the States.

COAL

Legislation authorizing a system of fuel administration and the appointment by the President
of a Board of Mediation and Conciliation in case of actual or threatened interruption of production
is needed. The miners themselves are now seeking information and action from the Government,
which could readily be secured through such a board. It is believed that a thorough investigation
and reconsideration of this proposed policy by the Congress will demonstrate that this recommendation
is sound and should be adopted.

PETROLEUM CONSERVATION

The National Government is undertaking to join in the formation of a cooperative committee
of lawyers, engineers, and public officers, to consider what legislation by the States or by
the Congress can be adopted for the preservation and conservation of our supply of petroleum.
This has come to be one of the main dependencies for transportation and power so necessary
to our agricultural and industrial life. It is expected the report of this committee will be
available for later congressional action. Meantime, the requirement that the Secretary of the
Interior should make certain leases of land belonging to the Osage Indians, in accordance with
the act of March 3, 1921, should be repealed. The authority to lease should be discretionary,
in order that the property of the Indians way not be wasted and the public suffer a future
lack of supply.

ALIEN PROPERTY

Under treaty the property held by the Alien Property Custodian was to be retained until suitable
provision had been made for the satisfaction of American claims. While still protecting the
American claimants, in order to afford every possible accommodation to the nationals of the
countries whose property was held, the Congress has made liberal provision for the return of
a larger part of the property. All trusts under $10,000 were returned in full, and partial
returns were made on the others. The total returned was approximately $350,000,000.

There is still retained, however, about $250,000,000. The Mixed Claims Commission has made
such progress in the adjudication of claims that legislation can now be enacted providing for
the return of the property, which should be done under conditions which will protect our Government
and our claimants. Such a measure will be proposed, and I recommend its enactment.

RAILROAD CONSOLIDATION

In order to increase the efficiency of transportation and decrease its cost to the shipper,
railroad consolidation must be secured. Legislation is needed to simplify the necessary procedure
to secure such agreements and arrangements for consolidation, always under the control and
with the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Pending this, no adequate or permanent
reorganization can be made of the freight-rate structure. Meantime, both agriculture and industry
are compelled to wait for needed relief. This is purely a business question, which should be
stripped of all local and partisan bias and decided on broad principles and its merits in order
to promote the public welfare. A large amount of new construction and equipment, which will
furnish employment for labor and markets for commodities of both factory and farm, wait on
the decision of this important question. Delay is holding back the progress of our country.

Many of the same arguments are applicable to the consolidation of the Washington traction companies.

VETERANS

The care which this country has lavished on its veterans is known of all men. The yearly outlay
for this purpose is about $750,000,000, or about the cost of running the Federal Government,
outside of the Post Office Department, before the World War. The Congress will have before
it recommendations of the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, and other like organizations,
which should receive candid consideration. We should continue to foster our system of compensation
and rehabilitation, and provide hospitals and insurance. The magnitude of the undertaking is
already so large that all requests calling for further expenditure should have the most searching
scrutiny. Our present system of pensions is already sufficiently liberal. It was increased
by the last Congress for Civil and Spanish War veterans and widows and for some dependents.

It has been suggested that the various governmental agencies now dealing with veterans' relief
be consolidated. This would bring many advantages. It is recommended that the proper committees
of the Congress make a thorough survey of this subject, in order to determine if legislation
to secure such consolidation is desirable.

EDUCATION

For many years it has been the policy of the Federal Government to encourage and foster the
cause of education. Large sums of money are annually appropriated to carry on vocational training.
Many millions go into agricultural schools. The general subject is under the immediate direction
of a Commissioner of Education. While this subject is strictly a State and local function,
it should continue to have the encouragement of the National Government. I am still of the
opinion that much good could be accomplished through the establishment of a Department of Education
and Relief, into which would be gathered all of these functions under one directing member
of the Cabinet.

DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

Industrial relations have never been more peaceful. In recent months they have suffered from
only one serious controversy. In all others difficulties have been adjusted, both management
and labor wishing to settle controversies by friendly agreement rather than by compulsion.
The welfare of women and children is being especially guarded by our Department of Labor. Its
Children's Bureau is in cooperation with 26 State boards and 80 juvenile courts.

Through its Bureau of Immigration it has been found that medical examination abroad has saved
prospective immigrants from much hardship. Some further legislation to provide for reuniting
families when either the husband or the wife is in this country, and granting more freedom
for the migration of the North American Indian tribes is desirable.

The United States Employment Service has enabled about 2,000,000 men and women to gain paying
positions in the last fiscal year. Particular attention has been given to assisting men past
middle life and in providing field labor for harvesting agricultural crops. This has been made
possible in part through the service of the Federal Board for Vocational Education, which is
cooperating with the States in a program to increase the technical knowledge and skill of the
wage earner.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

Construction is under way in the country and ground has been broken for carrying out a public-building
program for Washington. We have reached a time when not only the conveniences but the architectural
beauty of the public buildings of the Capital City should be given much attention. It will
be necessary to purchase further land and provide the required continuing appropriations.

HISTORICAL CELEBRATIONS

Provision is being made to commemorate the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of George
Washington. Suggestion has been made for the construction of a memorial road leading from the
Capital to Mount Vernon, which may well have the consideration of the Congress, and the commission
intrusted with preparations for the celebration will undoubtedly recommend publication of the
complete writings of Washington and a series of writings by different authors relating to him.

February 25, 1929. is the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the capture of Fort Sackville,
at Vincennes, in the State of Indiana. This eventually brought into the Union what was known
as the Northwest Territory, embracing the region north of the Ohio River between the Alleghenies
and the Mississippi River. This expedition was led by George Rogers Clark. His heroic character
and the importance of his victory are too little known and understood. They gave us not only
this Northwest Territory but by means of that the prospect of reaching the Pacific. The State
of Indiana is proposing to dedicate the site of Fort Sackville as a national shrine. The Federal
Government may well make some provision for the erection under its own management of a fitting
memorial at that point.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

It is the policy of the United States to promote peace. We are a peaceful people and committed
to the settling of disputes by amicable adjustment rather than by force. We have believed that
peace can best be secured by a faithful observance on our part of the principles of international
law, accompanied by patience and conciliation, and requiring of others a like treatment for
ourselves. We have lately had some difference with Mexico relative to the injuries inflicted
upon our nationals and their property within that country. A firm adherence to our rights and
a scrupulous respect for the sovereignty of Mexico, both in accordance with the law of nations,
coupled with patience and forbearance, it is hoped will resolve all our differences without
interfering with the friendly relationship between the two Governments.

We have been compelled to send naval and marine forces to China to protect the lives and property
of our citizens. Fortunately their simple presence there has been sufficient to prevent any
material loss of life. But there has been considerable loss of property. That unhappy country
is torn by factions and revolutions which bid fair to last for an indefinite period. Meanwhile
we are protecting our citizens and stand ready to cooperate with any government which may emerge
in promoting the welfare of the people of China. They have always had our friendship, and they
should especially merit our consideration in these days of their distraction and distress.

We were confronted by similar condition on a small scale in Nicaragua. Our marine and naval
forces protected our citizens and their property and prevented a heavy sacrifice of life and
the destruction of that country by a reversion to a state of revolution. Henry L. Stimson,
former Secretary of War, was sent there to cooperate with our diplomatic and military officers
in effecting a settlement between the contending parties. This was done on the assurance that
we would cooperate in restoring a state of peace where our rights would be protected by giving
our assistance in the conduct of the next presidential election, which occurs in a few months.
With this assurance the population returned to their peacetime pursuits, with the exception
of some small roving bands of outlaws.

In general, our relations with other countries can be said to have improved within the year.
While having a due regard for our own affairs, the protection of our own rights, and the advancement
of our own people, we can afford to be liberal toward others. Our example has become of great
importance in the world. It is recognized that we are independent, detached, and can and do
take a disinterested position in relation to international affairs. Our charity embraces the
earth. Our trade is far flung. Our financial favors are widespread. Those who are peaceful
and law-abiding realize that not only have they nothing to fear from us, but that they can
rely on our moral support. Proposals for promoting the peace of the world will have careful
consideration. But we are not a people who are always seeking for a sign. We know that peace
comes from honesty and fair dealing, from moderation, and a generous regard for the rights
of others. The heart of the Nation is more important than treaties. A spirit of generous consideration
is a more certain defense than great armaments. We should continue to promote peace by our
example, and fortify it by such international covenants against war as we are permitted under
our Constitution to make.

AMERICAN PROGRESS

Our country has made much progress. But it has taken, and will continue to take, much effort.
Competition will be keen, the temptation to selfishness and arrogance will be severe, the provocations
to deal harshly with weaker peoples will be many. All of these are embraced in the opportunity
for true greatness. They will be overbalanced by cooperation by generosity, and a spirit of
neighborly kindness. The forces of the universe are taking humanity in that direction. In doing
good, in walking humbly, in sustaining its own people in ministering to other nations, America
will work out its own mighty destiny.

***

State of the Union Address Calvin Coolidge December 4, 1928

To the Congress of the United States:

No Congress of the United States ever assembled, on surveying the state of the Union, has met
with a more pleasing prospect than that which appears at the present time. In the domestic
field there is tranquility and contentment, harmonious relations between management and wage
earner, freedom from industrial strife, and the highest record of years of prosperity. In the
foreign field there is peace, the good will which comes from mutual understanding, and the
knowledge that the problems which a short time ago appeared so ominous are yielding to the
touch of manifest friendship. The great wealth created by our enterprise and industry, and
saved by our economy, has had the widest distribution among our own people, and has gone out
in a steady stream to serve the charity and the business of the world. The requirements of
existence have passed beyond the standard of necessity into the region of luxury. Enlarging
production is consumed by an increasing demand at home and an expanding commerce abroad. The
country can regard the present with satisfaction and anticipate the future with optimism.

The main source of these unexampled blessings lies in the integrity and character of the American
people. They have had great faith, which they have supplemented with mighty works. They have
been able to put trust in each other and trust in their Government. Their candor in dealing
with foreign governments has commanded respect and confidence. Yet these remarkable powers
would have been exerted almost in vain without the constant cooperation and careful administration
of the Federal Government.

We have been coming into a period which may be fairly characterized as a conservation of our
national resources. Wastefulness in public business and private enterprise has been displaced
by constructive economy. This has been accomplished by bringing our domestic and foreign relations
more and more under a reign of law. A rule of force has been giving way to a rule of reason.
We have substituted for the vicious circle of increasing expenditures, increasing tax rates,
and diminishing profits the charmed circle of diminishing expenditures, diminishing tax rates,
and increasing profits.

Four times we have made a drastic revision of our internal revenue system, abolishing many
taxes and substantially reducing almost all others. Each time the resulting stimulation to
business has so increased taxable incomes and profits that a surplus has been reduced. One-third
of the national debt has been paid, while much of the other two-thirds has been refunded at
lower rates, and these savings of interest and constant economies have enabled us to repeat
the satisfying process of more tax reductions. Under this sound and healthful encouragement
the national income has increased nearly 50 per cent, until it is estimated to stand well over
$90,000,000,000. It gas been a method which has performed the seeming miracle of leaving a
much greater percentage of earnings in the hands of the taxpayers with scarcely any diminution
of the Government revenue. That is constructive economy in the highest degree. It is the corner
stone of prosperity. It should not fail to be continued.

This action began by the application of economy to public expenditure. If it is to be permanent,
it must be made so by the repeated application of economy. There is no surplus on which to
base further tax revision at this time. Last June the estimates showed a threatened deficit
for the current fiscal year of $94,000,000. Under my direction the departments began saving
all they could out of their present appropriations. The last tax reduction brought an encouraging
improvement in business, beginning early in October, which will also increase our revenue.
The combination of economy and good times now indicates a surplus of about $37,000,000. This
is a margin of less than I percent on out, expenditures and makes it obvious that the Treasury
is in no condition to undertake increases in expenditures to be made before June 30. It is
necessary therefore during the present session to refrain from new appropriations for immediate
outlay, or if such are absolutely required to provide for them by new revenue; otherwise, we
shall reach the end of the year with the unthinkable result of an unbalanced budget. For the
first time during my term of office we face that contingency. I am certain that the Congress
would not pass and I should not feel warranted in approving legislation which would involve
us in that financial disgrace.

On the whole the finances of the Government are most satisfactory. Last year the national debt
was reduced about $906,000,000. The refunding and retirement of the second and third Liberty
loans have just been brought to a successful conclusion, which will save about $75,000,000
a year in interest. The unpaid balance has been arranged in maturities convenient for carrying
out our permanent debt-paying Program.

The enormous savings made have not been at the expense of any legitimate public need. The Government
plant has been kept up and many improvements are tinder way, while its service is fully manned
and the general efficiency of operation has increased. We have been enabled to undertake many
new enterprises. Among these are the adjusted compensation of the veterans of the World War,
which is costing us $112,000,000 a year; amortizing our liability to the civil service retirement
funds, $20,000,000; increase of expenditures for rivers and harbors including flood control,
$43,000,000; public buildings, $47,000,000. In 1928 we spent $50,000,000 in the adjustment
of war claims and alien property. These are examples of a large list of items.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

When we turn from our domestic affairs to our foreign relations, we likewise perceive peace
and progress. The Sixth International Conference of American States was held at Habana last
winter. It contributed to a better understanding and cooperation among the nations'. Eleven
important conventions were signed and 71 resolutions passed. Pursuant to the plan then adopted,
this Government has invited the other 20 nations of this hemisphere to it conference on conciliation
and arbitration, which meets in Washington on December 10. All the nations have accepted and
the expectation is justified that important progress will be made in methods for resolving
international differences by means of arbitration.

During the year we have signed 11 new arbitration treaties, and 22 more are tinder negotiation.

NICARAGUA

When a destructive and bloody revolution lately broke out in Nicaragua, at the earnest and
repeated entreaties of its Government I dispatched our Marine forces there to protect the lives
and interests of our citizens. To compose the contending parties, I sent there Col. Henry L.
Stimson, former Secretary of War and now Governor General of the Philippine Islands, who secured
an agreement that warfare should cease, a national election should be held and peace should
be restored. Both parties conscientiously carried out this agreement, with the exception of
a few bandits who later mostly surrendered or left the country. President Diaz appointed Brig.
Gen. Frank R. McCoy, United States Army, president of the election board, which included also
one member of each political party.

A free and fair election has been held and has worked out so successfully that both parties
have joined in requesting like cooperation from this country at the election four years hence,
to which I have refrained from making any commitments, although our country must be gratified
at such an exhibition of success and appreciation.

Nicaragua is regaining its prosperity and has taken a long step in the direction of peaceful
self-government.

TACNA-ARICA

The long-standing differences between Chile and Peru have been sufficiently composed so that
diplomatic relations have been resumed by the exchange of ambassadors. Negotiations are hopefully
proceeding as this is written for the final adjustment of the differences over their disputed
territory.

MEXICO

Our relations with Mexico are on a more satisfactory basis than at any time since their revolution.
Many misunderstandings have been resolved and the most frank and friendly negotiations promise
a final adjustment of all unsettled questions. It is exceedingly gratifying that Ambassador
Morrow has been able to bring our two neighboring countries, which have so many interests in
common, to a position of confidence in each other and of respect for mutual sovereign rights.

CHINA

The situation in China which a few months ago was so threatening as to call for the dispatch
of a large additional force has, been much composed. The Nationalist Government has established
itself over the country and promulgated a new organic law announcing a program intended to
promote the political and economic welfare of the people. We have recognized this Government,
encouraged its progress, and have negotiated a treaty restoring to China complete tariff autonomy
and guaranteeing our citizens against discriminations. Our trade in that quarter is increasing
and our forces are being reduced.

GREEK AND AUSTRIAN DEBTS

Pending before the Congress is a recommendation for the settlement of the Greek debt and the
Austrian debt. Both of these are comparatively small and our country can afford to be generous.
The rehabilitation of these countries awaits their settlement. There would also be advantages
to our trade. We could scarcely afford to be the only nation that refuses the relief which
Austria seeks. The Congress has already granted Austria a long-time moratorium, which it is
understood will be waived and immediate payments begun on her debt on the same basis which
we have extended to other countries.

PEACE TREATY

One of the most important treaties ever laid before the Senate of the United States will be
that which the 15 nations recently signed at Paris, and to which 44 other nations have declared
their intention to adhere, renouncing war as a national policy and agreeing to resort only
to peaceful means for the adjustment of international differences. It is the most solemn declaration
against war, the most positive adherence to peace, that it is possible for sovereign nations
to make. It does not supersede our inalienable sovereign right and duty of national defense
or undertake to commit us before the event to any mode of action which the Congress might decide
to be wise if ever the treaty should be broken. But it is a new standard in the world around
which can rally the informed and enlightened opinion of nations to prevent their governments
from being forced into hostile action by the temporary outbreak of international animosities.
The observance of this covenant, so simple and so straightforward, promises more for the peace
of the world than any other agreement ever negotiated among the nations.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

The first duty of our Government to its own citizens and foreigners within its borders is the
preservation of order. Unless and until that duty is met a government is not even eligible
for recognition among the family of nations. The advancement of world civilization likewise
is dependent upon that order among the people of different countries which we term peace. We are,
in truth, too much inclined to this. The little, who cannot raise themselves to the stature of the
great, are apt to strive after a socialist level, by reducing all
to one same standard--their own.

Truth is common to all ages, and will obtain utterance by the truthful and the eloquent throughout
all time.

S.H.

Athenæum, August 12.

* * * * *

NOTES ON THE SECOND EDITION OF MR. CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK OF LONDON

14. Long Acre. Mr. Cunningham, upon the authority of Parton's History of St. Giles's, says:

"First known as the Elms, then called Seven Acres, and since 1612,
from the length of a certain slip of ground, then first used as a
public pathway, as Long Acre."

The latter part of this statement is incorrect. The Seven Acres were known as Long Acre as early
as 1552, when they were granted to the Earl of Bedford. See Strype, B. vi. p. 88.

Machyn, in his Diary, printed by the Camden Society, p. 21., under the date A.D. 1556, has the following
allusion to the Acre:

"The vj day of December the Abbot of Westminster went a procession with his convent. Before him
went all the Santuary men with crosse keys upon their garments, and after went iij for murder:
on was the Lord Dacre's sone of the North, was wypyd with a shett
abowt him for kyllyng of on Master West, squyre, dwellyng besyd ...
and anodur theyff that dyd long to one of Master Comtroller ... dyd
kylle Recherd Eggylston the Comtroller's tayller, and kylled him in
the Long Acurs, the bak-syd Charyng Crosse."

15. Norfolk House, St. James's Square.

The present Norfolk House was built from a design by R. Brettingham,
in 1742, by Thomas Duke of Norfolk, and finished by his brother Edward
in 1762.

Mr. Cunningham speaks as if the old house, in which George III. was born, was still standing.

16.
Soho Square. Mr. Cunningham has not corrected his mistake about Mrs. Cornelys's house in this
square, (see "Notes and Queries," vol. i., pp. 244, 450.). D'Almaine's, which Mr. Cunningham confounds
with Mrs. Cornelys's, was at a former period tenanted by the Duke of Argyll; then by the Earl
of Bradford; and, at a later time, by the celebrated Onslow, who held his parliamentary levees
in the principal drawing-room. The ceilings of the best rooms are adorned with paintings by
Rebecca and Angelica Kauffman.

Mr. Cunningham has taken some pains to destroy the Pennant tradition concerning the name of this
square, but he has not given us one important piece of information, i.e. that between the years
1674 and 1681, the ground was surveyed by Gregory King, an eminent
architect of those days, who projected the square with the adjacent
streets.

Query, Did it not take the name of King's Square from the architect? This seems very probable;
more especially as the statue of Charles I. was not placed in the square until the beginning
of the next century. The centre space was originally occupied by a splendid fountain, (the work
of Colley Cibber's father), an estimate of the "cost and charges" of which is now before me.

Among
the eminent inhabitants of this square, not noticed by Mr. Cunningham, were the following:--Lord
{228} Berkely, Lord Byron, Lord Grimstone, Lord Howard, Lord Leicester, Sir Thomas Mansel,
Lord Morpeth, Lord Nottingham, Lord Peterborough, Lord Pierrepoint, Lord Pigot, Dudley North, the
Earl of Dartmouth, the Duchess of Cleveland, the Duchess of Wharton, &c. These names appear
in the books of the parish of St. Anne, between the years of 1708 and 1772.

17. Surrey Institution. At one period (about 1825), this building
was known as the Blackfriars Rotundo.

Here that execrable character, Robert Taylor, who styled himself "the Devil's Chaplain," delivered
his blasphemous discourses.

18. Opera House. Mr. Cunningham, speaking of the translation of Arsinoe, the first Anglo-Italian
opera performed in this country, says: "The translation was made by Thomas Clayton." This is
an error, for Clayton himself says, in his preface: "I was obliged
to have an Italian opera translated."

Clayton was the composer of the music.

19. James's (St.) Chapel, St. James's Palace. Mr. Cunningham says, "The service is chanted by
the boys of the Chapel Royal." This ought to read, "The service is chaunted by the boys and
gentlemen of the Chapel Royal"

The musical service of our cathedrals and collegiate establishments cannot be performed without four
kinds of voices, treble, alto, tenor, and bass.

20. Bagnigge Wells. Mr. Cunningham makes a strange mistake concerning this once popular place
of amusement when he says, "first opened to the public in the year 1767." A stone, still to
be seen, let into the wall over what was formerly the garden entrance, has the following inscription:

"S
+ T This is Bagnigge Hovse neare The Pinder a Wakefeilde 1680."

The gardens were first opened for the accommodation of persons who partook of the mineral springs;
subsequently, amusements were added; and in Bickham's curious work, The Musical Entertainer
(circa 1738), is an engraving of Tom Hippersley mounted in the "singing rostrum," regaling the company
with a song.

About half a century after this date, a regular orchestra was erected, and the entertainments
resembled Marylebone Gardens and Vauxhall. The old house and gardens were demolished in 1842, to
make room for several new streets.

Edward F. Rimbault.

* * * * *

NOTES ON COLERIDGE'S AIDS TO REFLECTION

(2nd Edition, 1831)

Introductory Aphorisms, No. xii., p. 7.:

"Tertullian had good reason for his assertation, that the simplest Christian (if indeed a Christian)
knows more than the most accomplished irreligious philosopher."

The passage referred to is in the Apology, c. 46:

"Deum quilibet
opifex Christianus et invenit et ostendit et exinde totum, quod in
Deo quæritur, re quoque assignat; licet Plato affirmet factitatorem
universitatis neque inveniri facilem et inventum enarrari in omnes
difficilem."

Note to Aphorism xxxi., p. 30.:

"To which he [Plato] may possibly have referred in his phrase [Greek: theoparadotos sophia]."

Possibly
Coleridge may have borrowed this from Berkeley's Siris, § 301., where [Greek: theoparadotos
philosophia] is cited from "a heathen writer." The word [Greek: theoparadotos] occurs in Proclus
and Marinus (see Valpy's Stephani Thesaurus), but not in Plato.

The motto from Seneca, prefixed to the Aphorisms on Spiritual Religion,
is from the fourty-first Epistle of that writer.

The question from Tertullian in the Comment on the eight of those Aphorisms,

"Certum est quia impossibile est."--p. 199.

is from the De Carne Christi, cap. v.

Aphorism iv., p. 227.:

"In wonder all philosophy began."

See Plato's Theætetus § 32., p. 155. Gataker on Antonin, i. 15. Plutarch de EI Delph. cap. 2.
p. 385 B. Sympos, v. 7., p. 680 C. Aristot. Metaph. 1. 2. 9.

In the "Sequelæ" annexed to this Aphorism, it is said of Simonides (p. 230.), that

"In the fortieth day of his mediation the sage and philosophic poet abandoned the problem [of
the nature of God] in despair."

Cicero (de nat. Deor. i. 22. § 60.) and Minucius Felix (Octav. 13.) do not specify the number
of days during which Simonides deferred his answer to Hiero.

Aphorism x. On Original Sin. (note, p. 252.) [Greek: sunetois phonun], &c., from Pindar, Olymp.
ii. 85. (152.)

Conclusion, p. 399.:

"Evidences of Christianity!

I am weary of this word," &c.

See the remarks on this passage in Archbishop Whately's Logic, Appendix III., near the end.

The
quotation from Apuleius, at the end of the book (p. 403.), is from the Metamorphos., i. 3.

J.E.B. Mayor

Marlborough College.

* * * * *

MINOR NOTES.

Capture of Henry VI. (Vol. ii., p. 181.).--There are several errors in this historical note. The
name of the Dean of Windsor was Manning, not {229} "Manting;" "Brungerly" should be Bungerley.
One of the Talbots, of Bashall Hall, could never be "High Sheriff for the West Riding," as the
Ridings of Yorkshire never had distinct sheriffs; neither was he
sheriff of the county.

The particulars of the king's capture are thus related in the chronicle called Warksworth's Chronicle,
which has been printed by the Camden Society:--

"Also, the same yere, kynge Henry was takene byside a howse of religione [i.e. Whalley] in Lancashyre,
by the mene of a blacke monke of Abyngtone [Abingdon] in a wode called Cletherwode [the wood
of Clitheroe], besyde Bungerly hyppyngstones, by Thomas Talbott, sonne and heyre to sere Edmunde
Talbot of Basshalle, and Jhon Talbott, his cosyne, of Colebry [i.e.
Salebury, in Blackburn], withe other moo; which discryvide [him] beynge
at his dynere at Wadyngton halle: and [he was] carryed to London on
horsebake, and his leges bownde to the styropes."

I have substituted the word "discryvide" for "disseyvide," as it is
printed in the Camden Society's book, where the editor, Mr. Halliwell,
understood the passage as meaning that the king was deceived or betrayed.

I take the meaning to be that the black monk of Abingdon had descried,
or discovered, the king as he was eating his dinner at Waddington
Hall; whereupon the Talbots, and some other parties in the neighbourhood,
formed plans for his apprehension, and arrested him on the first convenient
opportunity, as he was crossing the ford across the river Ribble,
formed by the hyppyngstones at Bungerley.

Waddington belonged to Sir John Tempest, of Bracewell, who was the father-in-law of Thomas Talbot.
Further particulars respecting these and other parties concerned, will be found in the notes to
Warksworth's Chronicle. The chief residence of the unhappy monarch during his retreat was at
Bolton Hall, where his boots, his gloves, and a spoon, are still
preserved, and are engraved in Whitaker's Craven.

An interior view of the ancient hall at Bolton, which is still remaining,
is engraved in the Gentleman's Magazine for May, 1841.

Sir Ralph Pudsay, of Bolton, had married Margaret, daughter of Sir Thomas Tunstal, who attended
the king as esquire of the body.

JOHN GOUGH NICHOLS.

Mentmore, Bucks, Notes from Register of.--Having recently had occasion to go through the entire registers
of the parish of Mentmore, Bucks, I send you three extracts, not
noticed by Lipscombe, the two first relating to an extinct branch
of the house of Hamilton, the third illustrating the "Manners and
Customs of the English" at the end of the seventeenth century.

"1732, William Hamilton, an infant son of Lord Viscount Limerick, Feb. 28."

"1741. The Honourable Charles Hamilton, son of Lord Viscount Limerick, Jan. 4."

"Memorand. A beggar woman of Slapton, whipt at Mentmoir, July 5th, 1698."

Q.D.

* * * * *

QUERIES

JOHN JOKYN, OR JOACHIM, THE FRENCH AMBASSADOR.

I am very desirous to be informed in what French author I can find any account of John Jokyn
(Joachim?), who was ambassador to England from France during the time of Cardinal Wolsey. I
have looked into the greater part of the French authors who have written historically on the reign of
François I. without having found any mention of such personage--L'Art de vérifier les Dates, &c.,
without success.

He is frequently spoken of by English writers, and particularly in the Union of the Famelies of
Lancastre and Yorke, by Edward Halle, 1548, folios 135, 136, 139, 144, and 149.; at folio 144., 17th year
of Hen. VIII., it is stated:--

"There came over as ambassador from France, Jhon Jokyn, now called M. de Vaux, which, as you have heard
in the last year, was kept secret in Master Lark's house; and when he came into England he
was welcomed of the Cardinal (Wolsey), and there between them were such communications at
the suit of the said Jhon, that a truce was concluded from the 13th
of July for forty days between England and France, both on the sea,
and beyond the sea," &c. &c.

This M. Jokyn, or Joachim, appears to
have been a person of considerable influence, and it appears his purpose
on this mission was to bribe Wolsey; and it seems that the Chancellor
Duprat was aware of this, and was much displeased on the occasion.

AMICUS. Aug 3, 1850.

* * * * *

SCRIPTURES, ROMAN CATHOLIC TRANSLATIONS OF, LUTHER'S FAMILIARITY WITH.

The replies I have gained to previous Queries encourage me to trouble
you with the following:--

1.

Has the Roman Catholic Church ever published a translation of the
Scriptures, or any part of them, into the vernacular Irish?

Have their missionaries in China ever translated anything beyond the Epistles and Gospels of
the Missal? Or, is there any Roman Catholic translation into any of the vernacular languages
of India? Or, are there any versions in any of the American dialects by Roman Catholic authors,
besides those mentioned by Le Long in his Bibliotheca Sacra. And is there any continuation of
his work up to {230} the present day? I am acquainted with Bishop Marsh's volume, but he seems
ill-informed and speaks vaguely about Roman Catholic versions.

2. What is the authority for the familiar story of a bill being brought into parliament for the
suppression of all vernacular translations in Richard II.'s reign, and of its being stoutly opposed
by John of Gaunt? "What, are we the dregs of the earth not to hear the Scriptures in our own
tongue?"

Usher mentions the circumstance (Historia Dogmatica, &c.), and it
is borrowed from him by Fox.

But I am so ignorant as not to know the original and cotemporary authority.

3. Your learned correspondent, DR. MAITLAND, in his Dark Ages, snubs D'Aubigné most unmercifully
for repeating an old story about Luther's stumbling upon a Bible, and pooh-pooh's D'Aubigné's
authority, Mathesius, as no better than a goose. May I ask whether it is possible to discover
the probable foundation of such a story, and whether Luther has left us in his writings any account
of his early familiarity with Scripture, that would bear upon the alleged incident, and show how much
of it may be true?

C.F.S.

* * * * *

MINOR QUERIES

The Lost Tribes.--A
list of all the theories and publications respecting the ten tribes
commonly called the Lost tribes, or any communication concerning them,
will much oblige.

JARLTZBERG.

Partrige Family.--Can any of your
readers inform me where I can see the grant mentioned in the following
note taken from Strype's Ecclesiastical Memorials, vol. iii. p. 542:
"I find a grant to the Lady Jane Partrige for life, of the manor of
Kenne in Devon, of the yearly value of 57l. 12s. 0-3/4d., but this
not before April, 1553." Can any of your readers tell me how to obtain
access to a private act 1st Mary, Sessio secunda. cap. 9., anno 1553,
intituled, "An Act for the Restitution in Blood of the Heirs of Sir
Miles Partrige, Knight"? Strype calls it an act for the restitution
of the daughters of Sir Miles Partrige, and I think he must be right,
as I have primâ facie proof that Sir Miles left no son. Were the debates
on the acts of parliament recorded in those days, and if so, how can
they be seen?

J. PARTRIGE.

Birmingham.

Commoner marrying a Peeress.--Formerly,
when a commoner married a peeress in her own right, he assumed her
title and dignity. The right was, I believe, disputed during the reign
of Henry VIII., in the case of the claimant of the barony of Talbois,
when it was decided that no man could take his wife's titles unless
he had issue male by her, but, if there were such issue, he became,
as in cases of landed property, "tenant by curtesy" of her dignities.
Can any of your correspondents inform me whether any subsequent decision
has deprived of this right a commoner marrying a peeress and having
issue male by her?

L.R.N.

The Character "&."--What is the correct
name of the character "&?" I have heard it called ample-se-and, ampuzzánd,
empuzád, ampássy, and apples-and,--all evident corruptions of one
and the same word. What is that word?

M.A. LOWER.

Combs buried with
the Dead.--When the corpse of St. Cuthbert was disinterred in the
cathedral of Durham, there was found upon his breast a plain simple
Saxon comb. A similar relique has been also discovered in other sepulchres
of the same sanctuary.

Can any of your learned contributors inform
me (for I am totally ignorant) the origin and intent of this strange
accompaniment of the burial of the ancient dead. The comb of St. Cuthbert
is, I believe, carefully preserved by the Dean and Chapter of Durham.

R.S.
HAWKER.

Morwenstow, Cornwall.

Cave's Historia Literaria.--My present
Queries arise out of a Note which I took of a passage in Adam Clarke's
Bibliography, under the article "W. Cave" (vol. ii. p. 161.).

1.
Has not the bibliographer assigned a wrong date to the publication
of Cave's Historia Literaria, viz. 1740, instead of 1688-1698?

2.
Will some of your readers do me the favour of mentioning the successive
editions of the Historia Literaria, together with the year and the
place of appearance of each of them?

According to the Biographia
Britannica (ed. 2., "Cave, W."), this learned work came out in the
year above stated, and there were two impressions printed at Geneva
in 1705 and 1720 respectively.

R.K.J.

Julin.--Will DR. BELL, who
adverts to the tradition of the doomed city, Julin, in your last number
(Vol. ii. p. 178.), oblige me by a "Note" of the story as it is told
by Adam of Bremen, whose work I am not within reach of? I have long
wanted to trace this legend.

V.

Belgravia, Aug. 17. 1850.

Richardson
Family.--Can of your correspondents inform me who "Mr. John Richardson,
of the Market Place, Leeds," was? he was living 1681 to 1700 and after,
and he made entries of the births of eleven children on the leaves
of an old book, and also an entry of the death of his wife, named
Lydea, who died 20th December, 1700. These entries are now in possession
of one of his daughters' descendants, who is desirous to know {231}
of what family Mr. Richardson was, who he married, and what was his
profession or business.

T.N.I.

Wakefield.

Tobacco--its Arabic Name.--One
of your correspondents, A.C.M. (Vol. ii., p. 155.), wishes to know
what is the Arabic word for tobacco used in Sale's Koran, ed. 8vo.
p. 169. Perhaps, if he will refer to the chapter and verse, or even
specify which is the 8vo. edition which he quotes, some of your correspondents
may be able to answer his Query.

M.D.

Pole Money.--Some time ago
I made a copy of

"A particular of all the names of the several persons
within the Lordship of Marston Montgomery (in Derbyshire), and of
their estates, according to the acts of parliament, for payment of
pole money assessed by William Hall, constable, and others."

This
was some time between 1660 and 1681. And also of a like

"Particular
of names of the several persons within the same lordship under the
sum of 5l., to pole for according to the acts of parliament."

Can
any of your correspondents inform me to what tax the above lists applied,
and what were the acts of parliament under which this tax (or pole-money)
was payable.

T.N.I.

Wakefield.

Welsh Money.--I have never seen
in any work on coins the slightest allusion to the money of the native
princes of Wales before the subjugation of their country by Edward
I. Is any such in existence? and, if not, how is its disappearance
to be accounted for? I read that Athelstan imposed on the Welsh an
annual tribute in money, which was paid for many years. Query, In
what sort of coin?

J.C. Witton.

A skeleton in every House.--Can
you or any of your correspondents explain the origin of that most
significant saying "There is a skeleton in every house?" Does it originate
in some ghastly legend?

Mors.

[Our correspondent is right in his
conjecture. To Secure the largest benefits from all these waterways
joint rates must be established with the railroads, preferably by agreement, but otherwise
as a result of congressional action.

We have recently passed several river and harbor bills. The work ordered by the Congress not,
yet completed, will cost about $243,

000,000, besides the hundreds of millions to be spent on the Mississippi flood way. Until we
can see our way out of this expense no further river and harbor legislation should be passed,
as expenditures to put it into effect would be four or five years away.

IRRIGATION OF ARID LANDS

For many years the Federal Government has been committed to the wise policy of reclamation
and irrigation. While it has met with some failures due to unwise selection of projects and
lack of thorough soil surveys, so that they could not be placed on a sound business basis,
on the whole the service has been of such incalculable benefit in so many States that no one
would advocate its abandonment. The program to which we are already committed, providing for
the construction of new projects authorized by Congress and the completion of old projects,
will tax the resources of the reclamation fund over a period of years. The high cost of improving
and equipping farms adds to the difficulty of securing settlers for vacant farms on federal
projects.

Readjustments authorized by the reclamation relief act of May 25, 1926, have given more favorable
terms of repayment to settlers. These new financial arrangements and the general prosperity
on irrigation projects have resulted in increased collections by the Department of the Interior
of charges due the reclamation fund. Nevertheless, the demand for still smaller yearly payments
on some projects continues. These conditions should have consideration in connection with any
proposed new projects.

COLORADO RIVER

For several years the Congress has considered the erection of a dam on the Colorado River for
flood-control, irrigation, and domestic water purposes, all of which ma properly be considered
as Government functions. There would be an incidental creation of water power which could be
used for generating electricity. As private enterprise can very well fill this field, there
is no need for the Government to go into it. It is unfortunate that the States interested in
this water have been unable to agree among themselves. Nevertheless, any legislation should
give every possible safeguard to the present and prospective rights of each of them.

The Congress will have before it, the detailed report of a special board appointed to consider
the engineering and economic feasibility of this project. From the short summary which I have
seen of it, 11 judge they consider the engineering problems can be met at somewhat increased
cost over previous estimates. They prefer the Black Canyon site. On the economic features they
are not so clear and appear to base their conclusions on many conditions which can not be established
with certainty. So far as I can judge, however, from the summary, their conclusions appear
sufficiently favorable, so that I feel warranted in recommending a measure which will protect
the rights of the States, discharge the necessary Government functions, and leave the electrical
field to private enterprise.

MUSCLE SHOALS

The development of other methods of producing nitrates will probably render this plant less
important for that purpose than formerly. But we have it, and I am told it still provides a
practical method of making nitrates for national defense and farm fertilizers. By dividing
the property into its two component parts of power and nitrate plants it would be possible
to dispose of the power, reserving the right to any concern that wished to make nitrates to
use any power that might be needed for that purpose. Such a disposition of the power plant
can be made that will return in rental about $2,000,000 per year. If the Congress would giant
the Secretary of War authority to lease the nitrate plant on such terms as would insure the
largest production of nitrates, the entire property could begin to function. Such a division,
I am aware, has never seemed to appeal to the Congress. I should also gladly approve a bill
granting authority to lease the entire property for the production of nitrates.

I wish to avoid building another dam at public expense. Future operators should provide for
that themselves. But if they were to be required to repay the cost of such dam with the prevailing
commercial rates for interest, this difficulty will be considerably lessened. Nor do I think
this property should be made a vehicle for putting the United States Government indiscriminately
into the private and retail field of power distribution and nitrate sales.

CONSERVATION

The practical application of economy to the resources of the country calls for conservation.
This does not mean that every resource should not be developed to its full degree, but it means
that none of them should be wasted. We have a conservation board working on our oil problem.
This is of the utmost importance to the future well-being of our people in this age of oil-burning
engines and the general application of gasoline to transportation. The Secretary of the Interior
should not be compelled to lease oil lands of the Osage Indians when the market is depressed
and the future supply is in jeopardy.

While the area of lands remaining in public ownership is small, compared with the vast area
in private ownership, the natural resources of those in public ownership are of immense present
and future value. This is particularly trite as to minerals and water power. The proper bureaus
have been classifying these resources to the end that they may be conserved. Appropriate estimates
are being submitted, in the Budget, for the further prosecution of this important work.

IMMIGRATION

The policy of restrictive immigration should be maintained. Authority should be granted the
Secretary of Labor to give immediate preference to learned professions and experts essential
to new industries. The reuniting of families should be expedited. Our immigration and naturalization
laws might well be codified.

WAGE EARNER

In its economic life our country has rejected the long accepted law of a limitation of the
wage fund, which led to pessimism and despair because it was the doctrine of perpetual poverty,
and has substituted for it the American conception that the only limit to profits and wages
is production, which is the doctrine of optimism and hope because it leads to prosperity. Here
and there the councils of labor are still darkened by the theory that only by limiting individual
production can there be any assurance of permanent employment for increasing numbers, but in
general, management and wage earner alike have become emancipated from this doom and have entered
a new era in industrial thought which has unleashed the productive capacity of the individual
worker with an increasing scale of wages and profits, the end of which is not yet. The application
of this theory accounts for our widening distribution of wealth. No discovery ever did more
to increase the happiness and prosperity of the people.

Since 1922 increasing production has increased wages in general 12.9 per cent, while in certain
selected trades they have run as high as 34.9 per cent and 38 per cent. Even in the boot and
shoe shops the increase is over 5 per cent and in woolen mills 8.4 per cent, although these
industries have not prospered like others. As the rise in living costs in this period is negligible,
these figures represent real wage increases.

The cause of constructive economy requires that the Government should cooperate with private
interests to eliminate the waste arising from industrial accidents. This item, with all that
has been done to reduce it, still reaches enormous proportions with great suffering to the
workman and great loss to the country.

WOMEN AND CHILDREN

The Federal Government should continue its solicitous care for the 8,500,000 women wage earners
and its efforts in behalf of public health, which is reducing infant mortality and improving
the bodily and mental condition of our citizens.

CIVIL SERVICE

The most marked change made in the civil service of the Government in the past eight years
relates to the increase in salaries. The Board of Actuaries on the retirement act shows by
its report, that July 1, 1921 the average salary of the 330,047 employees subject to the act
was $1,307, while on June 30, 1927, the average salary of the corresponding 405,263 was $1,969.
This was an increase in six years of nearly 53 per cent. On top of this was the generous increase
made at the last session of the Congress generally applicable to Federal employees and another
bill increasing the pay in certain branches of the Postal Service beyond the large increase
which was made three years ago. This raised the average level from $1,969 to $2,092, making
an increase in seven years of over 63 per cent. While it is well known that in the upper brackets
the pay in the Federal service is much smaller than in private employment, in the lower brackets,
ranging well up over $3,000, it is much higher. It is higher not only in actual money paid,
but in privileges granted, a vacation of 30 actual working days, or 5 weeks each year, with
additional time running in some departments as high as 30 days for sick leave and the generous
provisions of the retirement act. No other body of public servants ever occupied such a fortunate
position.

EDUCATION

Through the Bureau of Education of the Department of the Interior the Federal Government, acting
in an informative and advisory capacity, has rendered valuable service. While this province
belongs peculiarly to the States, yet the promotion of education and efficiency in educational
methods is a general responsibility of the Federal Government. A survey of negro colleges and
universities in the United States has just been completed by the Bureau of Education through
funds provided by the institutions themselves and through private sources. The present status
of negro higher education was determined and recommendations were made for its advancement.
This was one of the numerous cooperative undertakings of the bureau. Following the invitation
of the Association of Land Grant Colleges and Universities, he Bureau of Education now has
under way the survey of agricultural colleges, authorized by Congress. The purpose of the survey
is to ascertain the accomplishments, the status, and the future objectives of this type of
educational training. It is now proposed to undertake a survey of secondary schools, which
educators insist is timely and essential.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

We, have laid out a public building program for the District of Columbia and the country at
large running into hundreds of millions of dollars. Three important structures and one annex
are already, under way and one addition has been completed in the City of Washington. in the
country sites have been acquired, many buildings are in course of construction, and some are
already completed. Plans for all this work are being prepared in order that it may be carried
forward as rapidly as possible. This is the greatest building program ever assumed by this
Nation. It contemplates structures of utility and of beauty. When it reaches completion the
people will be well served and the Federal city will be supplied with the most beautiful and
stately public buildings which adorn any capital in the world.

THE AMERICAN INDIAN

The administration of Indian affairs has been receiving intensive study for several years.
The Department of the Interior has been able to provide better supervision of health, education,
and industrial advancement of this native race through additional funds provided by the Congress.
The present cooperative arrangement existing between the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Public
Health Service should be extended. The Government's responsibility to the American Indian has
been acknowledged by annual increases in appropriations to fulfill its obligations to them
and to hasten the time when Federal supervision of their affairs may be properly and safely
terminated. The movement in Congress and in some of the State legislatures for extending responsibility
in Indian affairs to States should be encouraged. A complete participation by the Indian in
our economic life is the end to be desired.

THE NEGRO

For 65 years now our negro Population has been under the peculiar care and solicitude of the
National Government. The progress which they have made in education and the professions, in
wealth and in the arts of civilization, affords one of the most remarkable incidents in this
period of world history. They have demonstrated their ability to partake of the advantages
of our institutions and to benefit by a free and more and more independent existence. Whatever
doubt there may have been of their capacity to assume, the status granted to them by the Constitution
of this Union is being rapidly dissipated. Their cooperation in the life of the Nation is constantly
enlarging.

Exploiting the Negro problem for political ends is being abandoned and their protection is
being increased by those States in which their percentage of population is largest. Every encouragement
should be extended for t le development of the race. The colored people have been the victims
of the crime of lynching, which has in late years somewhat decreased. Some parts of the South
already have wholesome laws for its restraint and punishment. Their example might well be followed
by other States, and by such immediate remedial legislation as the Federal Government can extend
under the Constitution.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

Under the guidance of Governor General Stimson the economic and political conditions of the
Philippine Islands have been raised to a standard never before surpassed. The cooperation between
his administration and the people of the islands is complete and harmonious. It would be an
advantage if relief from double taxation could be granted by the Congress to our citizens doing
business in the islands.

PORTO RICO

Due to the terrific storm that swept Porto Rico last September, the people of that island suffered
large losses. The Red Cross and the War Department went to their rescue. The property loss
is being, retrieved. Sugar, tobacco, citrus fruit, and coffee, all suffered damage. The first
three can largely look after themselves. The coffee growers will need some assistance, which
should be extended strictly on a business basis, and only after most careful investigation.
The people of Porto Rico are not asking for charity.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

It is desirable that all the legal activities of the Government be consolidated under the supervision
of the Attorney General. In 1870 it was felt necessary to create the Department of Justice
for this purpose. During the intervening period, either through legislation creating law officers
or departmental action, additional legal positions not under the supervision of the Attorney
General have been provided until there are now over 900. Such a condition is as harmful to
the interest of the Government now as it was in 1870, and should be corrected by appropriate
legislation.

SPECIAL GOVERNMENT COUNSEL

In order to prosecute the oil cases, I suggested and the Congress enacted a law providing for
the appointment of two special counsel. They have pursued their work with signal ability, recovering
all the leased lands besides nearly $30,000,000 in money, and nearly $17,000,000 in other property.
They find themselves hampered by a statute, which the Attorney General construes as applying
to them, prohibiting their appearing for private clients before any department. For this reason,
one has been compelled to resign. No good result is secured by the application of this rule
to these counsel, and as Mr. Roberts has consented to take reappointment if the rule is abrogated
I recommend the passage of an amendment to the law creating their office exempting them from
the general rule against taking other cases involving the Government.

PROHIBITION

The country has duly adopted the eighteenth amendment. Those who object to it have the right
to advocate its modification or repeal. Meantime, it is binding upon the National and State
Governments and all our inhabitants. The Federal enforcement bureau is making every effort
to prevent violations, especially through smuggling, manufacture, and transportation, and to
prosecute generally all violations for which it can secure evidence. It is bound to continue
this policy. Under the terms of the Constitution, however, the obligation is equally on the
States to exercise the power which they have through the executive, legislative, judicial,
and police branches of their governments in behalf of enforcement. The Federal Government is
doing and will continue to do all it can in this direction and is entitled to the active cooperation
of the States.

CONCLUSION

The country is in the midst of an era of prosperity more extensive and of peace more permanent
than it has ever before experienced. But, having reached this position, we should not fail
to comprehend that it can easily be lost. It needs more effort for its support than the less
exalted places of the world. We shall not be permitted to take our case, but shall continue
to be required to spend our days in unremitting toil. The actions of the Government must command
the confidence of the country. Without this, our prosperity would be lost. We must extend to
other countries the largest measure of generosity, moderation, and patience. In addition to
dealing justly, we can well afford to walk humbly.

The end of government is to keep open the opportunity for a more abundant life. Peace and prosperity
are not finalities; they are only methods. It is too easy under their influence for a nation
to become selfish and degenerate. This test has come to the United States. Our country has
been provided with the resources with which it can enlarge its intellectual, moral, and spiritual
life. The issue is in the hands of the people. Our faith in man and God is the justification
for the belief in our continuing success. In complying with that requirement I wish to emphasize
that during the past year the Nation has continued to grow in strength; our people have advanced
in comfort; we have gained in knowledge; the education of youth has been more widely spread;
moral and spiritual forces have been maintained; peace has become more assured. The problems
with which we are confronted are the problems of growth and of progress. In their solution
we have to determine the facts, to develop the relative importance to be assigned to such facts,
to formulate a common judgment upon them, and to realize solutions in spirit of conciliation.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

We are not only at peace with all the world, but the foundations for future peace are being
substantially strengthened. To promote peace is our long-established policy. Through the Kellogg-Briand
pact a great moral standard has been raised in the world. By it fifty-four nations have covenanted
to renounce war and to settle all disputes by pacific means. Through it a new world outlook
has been inaugurated which has profoundly affected the foreign policies of nations. Since its
inauguration we have initiated new efforts not only in the organization of the machinery of
peace but also to eliminate dangerous forces which produce controversies amongst nations.

In January, 1926, the Senate gave its consent to adherence to the Court of International Justice
with certain reservations. In September of this year the statute establishing the court has,
by the action of the nations signatory, been amended to meet the Senate's reservations and
to go even beyond those reservations to make clear that the court is a true international court
of justice. I believe it will be clear to everyone that no controversy or question in which
this country has or claims an interest can be passed on by the court without our consent at
the time the question arises. The doubt about advisory opinions has been completely safeguarded.
Our adherence to the International Court is, as now constituted, not the slightest step toward
entry into the League of Nations. As I have before indicated, I shall direct that our signature
be affixed to the protocol of adherence and shall submit it for the approval of the Senate
with a special message at some time when it is convenient to deal with it.

In the hope of reducing friction in the world, and with the desire that we may reduce the great
economic burdens of naval armament, we have joined in conference with Great Britain, France,
Italy, and Japan to be held in London in January to consider the further limitation and reduction
of naval arms. We hold high hopes that success may attend this effort.

At the beginning of the present administration the neighboring State of Mexico was best with
domestic insurrection. We maintained the embargo upon the shipment of arms to Mexico but permitted
the duly constituted Government to procure supplies from our surplus war stocks. Fortunately,
the Mexican Government by its own strength successfully withstood the insurrection with but
slight damage. Opportunity of further peaceful development is given to that country. At the
request of the Mexican Government, we have since lifted the embargo on shipment of arms altogether.
The two governments have taken further steps to promote friendly relationships and so solve
our differences. Conventions prolonging for a period of two years the life of the general and
special claims commissions have been concluded.

In South America we are proud to have had part in the settlement of the long-standing dispute
between Chile and Peru in the disposal of the question of Tacna-Arica.

The work of the commission of inquiry and conciliation between Bolivia and Paraguay, in which
a representative of this Government participated, has successfully terminated an incident which
seemed to threaten war. The proposed plan for final settlement as suggested by the neutral
governments is still under consideration.

This Government has continued its efforts to act as a mediator in boundary difficulties between
Guatemala and Honduras.

A further instance of profound importance in establishing good will was the inauguration of
regular air mail service between the United States and Caribbean, Central American, and South
American countries.

We still have marines on foreign soil--in Nicaragua, Haiti, and China. In the large sense we
do not wish to be represented abroad in such manner. About 1,600 marines remain in Nicaragua
at the urgent request of that government and the leaders of all parties pending the training
of a domestic constabulary capable of insuring tranquility. We have already reduced these forces
materially and we are anxious to withdraw them further as the situation warrants. In Haiti
we have about 700 marines, but it is a much more difficult problem, the solution of which is
still obscure. If Congress approves, I shall dispatch a commission to Haiti to review and study
the matter in an endeavor to arrive at some more definite policy than at present. Our forces
in China constitute 2,605 men, which we hope also further to reduce to the normal legation guard.

It is my desire to establish more firmly our understanding and relationships with the Latin
American countries by strengthening the diplomatic missions to those countries. It is my hope
to secure men long experienced in our Diplomatic Service, who speak the languages of the peoples
to whom they are accredited, as chiefs of our diplomatic missions in these States. I shall
send to the Senate at an early date the nominations of several such men.

The Congress has by numerous wise and foresighted acts in the past few years greatly strengthened
the character of our representation abroad. It has made liberal provision for the establishment
of suitable quarters for our foreign staffs in the different countries. In order, however,
that we may further develop the most effective force in this, one of the most responsible functions
of our Government, I shall recommend to the Congress more liberal appropriations for the work
of the State Department. I know of no expenditure of public money from which a greater economic
and moral return can come to us than by assuring the most effective conduct of our foreign
relations.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

To preserve internal order and freedom from encroachment is the first purpose of government.
Our Army and Navy are being maintained in a most efficient state under officers of high intelligence
and zeal. The extent and expansion of their numbers and equipment as at present authorized
are ample for this purpose.

We can well be deeply concerned, however, at the growing expense. From a total expenditure
for national defense purposes in 1914 of $267,000,000, it naturally rose with the Great War,
but receded again to $612,000,000 in 1924, when again it began to rise until during the current
fiscal year the expenditures will reach to over $730,000,000, excluding all civilian services
of those departments. Programs now authorized will carry it to still larger figures in future
years. While the remuneration paid to our soldiers and sailors is justly at a higher rate than
that of any other country in the world, and while the cost of subsistence is higher, yet the
total of our expenditures is in excess of those of the most highly militarized nations of the
world.

Upon the conference shortly to be held in London will depend such moderation as we can make
in naval expenditure. If we shall be compelled to undertake the naval construction implied
in the Washington arms treaty as well as other construction which would appear to be necessary
if no international agreement can be completed, we shall be committed during the next six years
to a construction expenditure of upward of $1,200,000,000 besides the necessary further increase
in costs for annual upkeep.

After 1914 the various Army contingents necessarily expanded to the end of the Great War and
then receded to the low point in 1924, when expansion again began. In 1914 the officers and
men in our regular forces, both Army and Navy, were about 164,000, in 1924 there were about
256,000, and in 1929 there were about 250,000. Our citizens' army, however, including the National
Guard and other forms of reserves, increase these totals up to about 299,000 in 1914, about
672,000 in 1924, and about 728,000 in 1929.

Under the Kellogg pact we have undertaken never to use war as an instrument of national policy.
We have, therefore, undertaken by covenant to use these equipments solely for defensive purposes.
From a defense point of view our forces should be proportioned to national need and should,
therefore, to some extent be modified by the prospects of peace, which were never brighter
than to-day.

It should be borne in mind that the improvement in the National Guard by Federal support begun
in 1920 has definitely strengthened our national security by rendering them far more effective
than ever heretofore. The advance of aviation has also greatly increased our effectiveness
in defense. In addition to the very large program of air forces which we are maintaining in
the Army and Navy, there has been an enormous growth of commercial aviation. This has provided
unanticipated reserves in manufacturing capacity and in industrial and air personnel, which
again adds to our security.

I recommend that Congress give earnest consideration to the possibilities of prudent action
which will give relief from our continuously mounting expenditures.

FINANCES OF THE GOVERNMENT

The finances of the Government are in sound condition. I shall submit the detailed evidences
and the usual recommendations in the special Budget message. I may, however, summarize our
position. The public debt on June 30 this year stood at $16,931,000,000, compared to the maximum
in August, 1919, of $26,596,000,000. Since June 30 it has been reduced by a further $238,000,000.
In the Budget to be submitted the total appropriations recommended for the fiscal year 1931
are $3,830,445,231, as compared to $3,976,141,651 for the present fiscal year. The present
fiscal year, however, includes $150,000,000 for the Federal Farm Board, as to which no estimate
can as yet be determined for 1931.

Owing to the many necessary burdens assumed by Congress in previous years which now require
large outlays, it is with extreme difficulty that we shall be able to keep the expenditures
for the next fiscal year within the bounds of the present year. Economies in many directions
have permitted some accommodation of pressing needs, the net result being an increase, as shown
above, of about one-tenth of 1 per cent above the present fiscal year. We can not fail to recognize
the obligations of the Government in support of the public welfare but we must coincidentally
bear in mind the burden of taxes and strive to find relief through some tax reduction. Every
dollar so returned fertilizes the soil of prosperity.

TAX REDUCTION

The estimate submitted to me by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Budget Director indicates
that the Government will close the fiscal year 1930 with a surplus of about $225,000,000 and
the fiscal year 1931 with a surplus of about $123,000,000. Owing to unusual circumstances,
it has been extremely difficult to estimate future revenues with accuracy.

I believe, however, that the Congress will be fully justified in giving the benefits of the
prospective surpluses to the taxpayers, particularly as ample provision for debt reduction
has been made in both years through the form of debt retirement from ordinary revenues. In
view of the uncertainty in respect of future revenues and the comparatively small size of the
indicated surplus in 1931, relief should take the form of a provisional revision of tax rates.

I recommend that the normal income tax rates applicable to the incomes of individuals for the
calendar year 1929 be reduced from 5, 3, and 1 1/2; per cent, to 4, 2, and 1/2; per cent, and
that the tax on the income of corporations for the calendar year 1929 be reduced from 12 to
11 per cent. It is estimated that this will result in a reduction of $160,000,000 in income
taxes to be collected during the calendar year 1930. The loss in revenue will be divided approximately
equally between the fiscal years 1930 and 1931. Such a program will give a measure of tax relief
to the maximum number of taxpayers, with relatively larger benefits to taxpayers with small
or moderate incomes.

FOREIGN DEBTS

The past year has brought us near to completion of settlements of the indebtedness of foreign
governments to the United States.

The act of Congress approved February 4, 1929, authorized the settlement with the Government
of Austria along lines similar to the terms of settlement offered by that Government to its
other relief creditors. No agreement has yet been concluded with that government, but the form
of agreement has been settled and its execution only awaits the Government of Austria securing
the assent by all the other relief creditors of the terms offered. The act of Congress approved
February 14, 1929, authorized the settlement with the Government of Greece, and an agreement
was concluded on May 10, 1929.

The Government of France ratified the agreement with us on July 27, 1929. This agreement will
shortly be before the Congress and I recommend its approval.

The only indebtedness of foreign governments to the United States now unsettled is that of
Russia and Armenia.

During the past year a committee of distinguished experts under American leadership submitted
a plan looking to a revision of claims against Germany by the various Governments. The United
States denied itself any participation in the war settlement of general reparations and our
claims are comparatively small in amount. They arise from costs of the army of occupation and
claims of our private citizens for losses under awards from the Mixed Claims Commission established
under agreement with the German Government. In finding a basis for settlement it was necessary
for the committee of experts to request all the Governments concerned to make some contribution
to the adjustment and we have felt that we should share a proportion of the concessions made.

The State and Treasury Departments will be in a position shortly to submit for your consideration
a draft of an agreement to be executed between the United States and Germany providing for
the payments of these revised amounts. A more extensive statement will be submitted at that time.

The total amount of indebtedness of the various countries to the United States now funded is
$11,579,465,885. This sum was in effect provided by the issue of United States Government bonds
to our own people. The payments of the various Governments to us on account of principal and
interest for 1930 are estimated at a total of about $239,000,000, for 1931 at about $236,000,000,
for 1932 at about $246,000,000. The measure of American compromise in these settlements may
be appreciated from the fact that our taxpayers are called upon to find annually about $475,000,000
in interest and in addition to redeem the principal of sums borrowed by the United States Government
for these purposes.

ALIEN ENEMY PROPERTY

The wise determination that this property seized in war should be returned to its owners has
proceeded with considerable rapidity. Of the original seized cash and property (valued at a
total of about $625,000,000), all but $111,566,700 has been returned. Most of the remainder
should be disposed of during the next year.

GENERAL ECONOMIC SITUATION

The country has enjoyed a large degree of prosperity and sound progress during the past year
with a steady improvement in methods of production and distribution and consequent advancement
in standards of living. Progress has, of course, been unequal among industries, and some, such
as coal, lumber, leather, and textiles, still lag behind. The long upward trend of fundamental
progress, however, gave rise to over-optimism as to profits, which translated itself into a
wave of uncontrolled speculation in securities, resulting in the diversion of capital from
business to the stock market and the inevitable crash. The natural consequences have been a
reduction in the consumption of luxuries and semi-necessities by those who have met with losses,
and a number of persons thrown temporarily out of employment. Prices of agricultural products
dealt in upon the great markets have been affected in sympathy with the stock crash.

Fortunately, the Federal reserve system had taken measures to strengthen the position against
the day when speculation would break, which together with the strong position of the banks
has carried the whole credit system through the crisis without impairment. The capital which
has been hitherto absorbed in stock-market loans for speculative purposes is now returning
to the normal channels of business. There has been no inflation in the prices of commodities;
there has been no undue accumulation of goods, and foreign trade has expanded to a magnitude
which exerts a steadying influence upon activity in industry and employment.

The sudden threat of unemployment and especially the recollection of the economic consequences
of previous crashes under a much less secured financial system created unwarranted pessimism
and fear. It was recalled that past storms of similar character had resulted in retrenchment
of construction, reduction of wages, and laying off of workers. The natural result was the
tendency of business agencies throughout the country to pause in their plans and proposals
for continuation and extension of their businesses, and this hesitation unchecked could in
itself intensify into a depression with widespread unemployment and suffering.

I have, therefore, instituted systematic, voluntary measures of cooperation with the business
institutions and with State and municipal authorities to make certain that fundamental businesses
of the country shall continue as usual, that wages and therefore consuming power shall not
be reduced, and that a special effort shall be made to expand construction work in order to
assist in equalizing other deficits in employment. Due to the enlarged sense of cooperation
and responsibility which has grown in the business world during the past few years the response
has been remarkable and satisfactory. We have canvassed the Federal Government and instituted
measures of prudent expansion in such work that should be helpful, and upon which the different
departments will make some early recommendations to Congress.

I am convinced that through these measures we have reestablished confidence. Wages should remain
stable. A very large degree of industrial unemployment and suffering which would otherwise
have occurred has been prevented. Agricultural prices have reflected the returning confidence.
The measures taken must be vigorously pursued until normal conditions are restored.

AGRICULTURE

The agricultural situation is improving. The gross farm income as estimated by the Department
of Agriculture for the crop season 1926-27 was $12,100,000,000; for 1927-28 it was $12,300,000,000;
for 1928-29 it was $12,500,000,000; and estimated on the basis of prices since the last harvest
the value of the 1929-30 crop would be over $12,650,000,000. The slight decline in general
commodity prices during the past few years naturally assists the farmers' buying power.

The number of farmer bankruptcies is very materially decreased below previous years. The decline
in land values now seems to be arrested and rate of movement from the farm to the city has
been reduced. Not all sections of agriculture, of course, have fared equally, and some areas
have suffered from drought. Responsible farm leaders have assured me that a large measure of
confidence is returning to agriculture and that a feeling of optimism pervades that industry.

The most extensive action for strengthening the agricultural industry ever taken by any government
was inaugurated through the farm marketing act of June 15 last. Under its provisions the Federal
Farm Board has been established, comprised of men long and widely experienced in agriculture
and sponsored by the farm organizations of the country. During its short period of existence
the board has taken definite steps toward a more efficient organization of agriculture, toward
the elimination of waste in marketing, and toward the upbuilding of farmers' marketing organizations
on sounder and more efficient lines. Substantial headway has been made in the organization
of four of the basic commodities--grain, cotton, livestock, and wool. Support by the board
to cooperative marketing organizations and other board activities undoubtedly have served to
steady the farmers' market during the recent crisis and have operated also as a great stimulus
to the cooperative organization of agriculture. The problems of the industry are most complex,
and the need for sound organization is imperative. Yet the board is moving rapidly along the
lines laid out for it in the act, facilitating the creation by farmers of farmer-owned and
farmer-controlled organizations and federating them into central institutions, with a view
to increasing the bargaining power of agriculture, preventing and controlling surpluses, and
mobilizing the economic power of agriculture.

THE TARIFF

The special session of Congress was called to expedite the fulfillment of party pledges of
agricultural relief and the tariff. The pledge of farm relief has been carried out. At that
time I stated the principles upon which I believed action should be taken in respect to the
tariff: "An effective tariff upon agricultural products, that will compensate the farmer's
higher costs and higher standards of living, has a dual purpose. Such a tariff not only protects
the farmer in our domestic market but it also stimulates him to diversify his crops and to
grow products that he could not otherwise produce, and thus lessens his dependence upon exports
to foreign markets. The great expansion of production abroad under the conditions I have mentioned
renders foreign competition in our export markets increasingly serious. It seems but natural,
therefore, that the American farmer, having been greatly handicapped in his foreign market
by such competition from the younger expanding countries, should ask that foreign access to
our domestic market should be regulated by taking into account the differences in our costs
of production.

"In considering the tariff for other industries than agriculture, we find that there have been
economic shifts necessitating a readjustment of some of the tariff schedules. Seven years of
experience under the tariff bill enacted in 1922 have demonstrated the wisdom of Congress in
the enactment of that measure. On the whole it has worked well. In the main our wages have
been maintained at high levels; our exports and imports have steadily increased; with some
exceptions our manufacturing industries have been prosperous. Nevertheless, economic changes
have taken place during that time which have placed certain domestic products at a disadvantage
and new industries have come into being, all of which create the necessity for some limited
changes in the schedules and in the administrative clauses of the laws as written in 1922.

"It would seem to me that the test of necessity for revision is, in the main, whether there
has been a substantial slackening of activity in an industry during the past few years, and
a consequent decrease of employment due to insurmountable competition in the products of that
industry. It is not as if we were setting up a new basis of protective duties. We did that
seven years ago. What we need to remedy now is whatever substantial loss of employment may
have resulted from shifts since that time.

"In determining changes in our tariff we must not fail to take into account the broad interests
of the country as a whole, and such interests include our trade relations with other countries."
No condition has arisen in my view to change these principles stated at the opening of the
special session. I am firmly of the opinion that their application to the pending revision
will give the country the kind of a tariff law it both needs and wants. It would be most helpful
if action should be taken at an early moment, more especially at a time when business and agriculture
are both cooperating to minimize future uncertainties. It is just that they should know what
the rates are to be.

Even a limited revision requires the consideration and readjustment of many items. The exhaustive
inquiries and valuable debate from men representative of all parts of the country which is
needed to determine the detailed rates must necessarily be accomplished in the Congress. However
perfectly this rate structure may be framed at any given time, the shifting of economic forces
which inevitably occurs will render changes in some items desirable between the necessarily
long intervals of congressional revision. Injustices are bound to develop, such as were experienced
by the dairymen, the flaxseed producers, the glass industry, and others, under the 1922 rates.
For this reason, I have been most anxious that the broad principle of the flexible tariff as
provided in the existing law should be preserved and its delays in action avoided by more expeditious
methods of determining the costs of production at home and abroad, with executive authority
to promulgate such changes upon recommendation of the Tariff Commission after exhaustive investigation.
Changes by the Congress in the isolated items such as those to which I have referred would
have been most unlikely both because of the concentrations of oppositions in the country, who
could see no advantage to their own industry or State, and because of the difficulty of limiting
consideration by the Congress to such isolated cases.

There is no fundamental conflict between the interests of the farmer and the worker. Lowering
of the standards of living of either tends to destroy the other. The prosperity of one rests
upon the well-being of the other. Nor is there any real conflict between the East and the West
or the North and the South in the United States. The complete interlocking of economic dependence,
the common striving for social and spiritual progress, our common heritage as Americans, and
the infinite web of national sentiment, have created a solidarity in a great people unparalleled
in all human history. These invisible bonds should not and can not be shattered by differences
of opinion growing out of discussion of a tariff.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

Under the provisions of various acts of Congress $300,000,000 has been authorized for public
buildings and the land upon which to construct them, being $75,000,000 for the District of
Columbia and $225,000,000 for the country at large. Excluding $25,000,000 which is for the
acquisition of land in the so-called "triangle" in this city, this public building legislation
provides for a five-year program for the District of Columbia and between an eight and nine
year program for the country at large. Of this sum approximately $27,400,000 was expended up
to June 30 last, of which $11,400,000 has been expended in the District and $16,000,000 outside.

Even this generous provision for both the District of Columbia and the country is insufficient
For most pressing governmental needs. Expensive rents and inadequate facilities are extravagance
and not economy. In the District even after the completion of these projects we shall have
fully 20,000 clerks housed in rented and temporary war buildings which can last but a little
longer.

I therefore recommend that consideration should be given to the extension of authorizations
both for the country at large and for the District of Columbia again distributed over a term
of years. A survey of the need in both categories has been made by the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Postmaster General. It would be helpful in the present economic situation if such steps
were taken as would enable early construction work.

An expedition and enlargement of the program in the District would bring about direct economies
in construction by enabling the erection of buildings in regular sequence. By maintaining a
stable labor force in the city, contracts can be made on more advantageous terms.

The earlier completion of this program which is an acknowledged need would add dignity to the
celebration in 1932 of the two hundredth anniversary of the birth of President Washington.

In consideration of these projects which contribute so much to dignify the National Capital
I should like to renew the suggestion that the Fine Arts Commission should be required to pass
upon private buildings which are proposed for sites facing upon public buildings and parks.
Without such control much of the effort of the Congress in beautification of the Capital will
be minimized.

THE WATERWAYS AND FLOOD CONTROL

The development of inland waterways has received new impulse from the completion during this
year of the canalization of the Ohio to a uniform 9-foot depth. The development of the other
segments of the Mississippi system should be expedited and with this in view I am recommending
an increase in appropriations for rivers and harbors from $50,000,000 to $55,000,000 per annum
which, together with about $4,000,000 per annum released by completion of the Ohio, should
make available after providing for other river and harbor works a sum of from $25,000,000 to
$30,000,000 per annum for the Mississippi system and thus bring it to early completion.

Conflict of opinion which has arisen over the proposed floodway from the Arkansas River to
the Gulf of Mexico via the Atchafalaya River has led me to withhold construction upon this
portion of the Mississippi flood control plan until it could be again reviewed by the engineers
for any further recommendation to Congress. The other portions of the project are being vigorously
prosecuted and I have recommended an increase in appropriations for this from $30,000,000 of
the present year to $35,000,000 during the next fiscal year.

Expansion of our intracoastal waterways to effective barge depths is well warranted. We are
awaiting the action of Canada upon the St. Lawrence waterway project.

HIGHWAYS

There are over 3,000,000 miles of legally established highways in the United States, of which
about 10 per cent are included in the State highway systems, the remainder being county and
other local roads. About 626,000 miles have been improved with some type of surfacing, comprising
some 63 per cent of the State highway systems and 16 per cent of the local roads. Of the improved
roads about 102,000 miles are hard surfaced, comprising about 22 per cent of the State highway
systems and about 8 per cent of the local roads.

While proper planning should materially reduce the listed mileage of public roads, particularly
in the agricultural districts, and turn these roads back to useful purposes, it is evident
that road construction must be a long-continued program. Progress in improvement is about 50,000
miles of all types per annum, of which some 12,000 miles are of the more durable types. The
total expenditures of Federal, State, and local governments last year for construction and
maintenance assumed the huge total of $1,660,000,000.

Federal aid in the construction of the highway systems in conjunction with the States has proved
to be beneficial and stimulating. We must ultimately give consideration to the increase of
our contribution to these systems, particularly with a view to stimulating the improvement
of farm-to-market roads.

POST OFFICE

Our Post Office deficit has now increased to over $80,000,000 a year, of which perhaps $14,000,000
is due to losses on ocean mail and air mail contracts. The department is making an exhaustive
study of the sources of the deficit with view to later recommendation to Congress in respect to it.

The Post Office quarters are provided in part by the Federal construction, in part by various
forms of rent and lease arrangements. The practice has grown up in recent years of contracting
long term leases under which both rent and amortization principal cost of buildings is included.
I am advised that fully 40 per cent could be saved from many such rent and lease agreements
even after allowing interest on the capital required at the normal Government rate. There are
also many objectionable features to some of these practices. The provision of adequate quarters
for the Post Office should be put on a sound basis.

A revision of air mail rates upon a more systematic and permanent footing is necessary. The
subject is under study, and if legislation should prove necessary the subject will be presented
to the Congress. In the meantime I recommend that the Congress should consider the desirability
of authorizing further expansion of the South American services.

COMMERCIAL AVIATION

During the past year progress in civil aeronautics has been remarkable. This is to a considerable
degree due to the wise assistance of the Federal Government through the establishment and maintenance
of airways by the Department of Commerce and the mail contracts from the Post Office Department.
The Government-improved airways now exceed 25,000 miles--more than 14,000 miles of which will
be lighted and equipped for night-flying operations by the close of the current year. Airport
construction through all the States is extremely active. There are now 1,000 commercial and
municipal airports in operation with an additional 1,200 proposed for early development.

Through this assistance the Nation is building a sound aviation system, operated by private
enterprise. Over 6,400 planes are in commercial use, and 9,400 pilots are licensed by the Government.
Our manufacturing capacity has risen to 7,500 planes per annum. The aviation companies have
increased regular air transportation until it now totals 90,000 miles per day--one-fourth of
which is flown by night. Mail and express services now connect our principal cities, and extensive
services for passenger transportation have been inaugurated, and others of importance are imminent.
American air lines now reach into Canada and Mexico, to Cuba, Porto Rico, Central America,
and most of the important countries of South America.

RAILWAYS

As a whole, the railroads never were in such good physical and financial condition, and the
country has never been so well served by them. The greatest volume of freight traffic ever
tendered is being carried at a speed never before attained and with satisfaction to the shippers.
Efficiencies and new methods have resulted in reduction in the cost of providing freight transportation,
and freight rates show a continuous descending line from the level enforced by the World War.

We have, however, not yet assured for the future that adequate system of transportation through
consolidations which was the objective of the Congress in the transportation act. The chief
purpose of consolidation is to secure well-balanced systems with more uniform and satisfactory
rate structure, a more stable financial structure, more equitable distribution of traffic,
greater efficiency, and single-line instead of multiple-line hauls. In this way the country
will have the assurance of better service and ultimately at lower and more even rates than
would otherwise be attained. Legislation to simplify and expedite consolidation methods and
better to protect public interest should be enacted.

Consideration should also be given to relief of the members of the Commission from the necessity
of detailed attention to comparatively inconsequential matters which, under the existing law,
must receive their direct and personal consideration. It is in the public interest that the
members of the Commission should not be so pressed by minor matters that they have inadequate
time for investigation and consideration of the larger questions committed to them for solution.
As to many of these minor matters, the function of the Commission might well be made revisory,
and the primary responsibility delegated to subordinate officials after the practice long in
vogue in the executive departments.

MERCHANT MARINE

Under the impulse of the merchant marine act of 1928 the transfer to private enterprise of
the Government-owned steamship lines is going forward with increasing success. The Shipping
Board now operates about 18 lines, which is less than half the number originally established,
and the estimate of expenditures for the coming fiscal year is based upon reduction in losses
on Government lines by approximately one-half. Construction loans have been made to the amount
of approximately $75,000,000 out of the revolving fund authorized by Congress and have furnished
an additional aid to American shipping and further stimulated the building of vessels in American
yards.

Desirous of securing the full values to the Nation of the great effort to develop our merchant
marine by the merchant marine act soon after the inauguration of the present administration,
I appointed an interdepartmental committee, consisting of the Secretary of Commerce, as chairman,
the Secretary of the Navy, the Postmaster General, and the chairman of the Shipping Board,
to make a survey of the policies being pursued under the act of 1928 in respect of mail contracts;
to inquire into its workings and to advise the Postmaster General in the administration of the act.

In particular it seemed to me necessary to determine if the result of the contracts already
let would assure the purpose expressed in the act, "to further develop an American merchant
marine, to assure its permanence in the transportation of the foreign trade of the United States,
and for other purposes," and to develop a coordinated policy by which these purposes may be
translated into actualities.

In review of the mail contracts already awarded it was found that they aggregated 25 separate
awards imposing a governmental obligation of a little over $12,000,000 per annum. Provision
had been imposed in five of the contracts for construction of new vessels with which to replace
and expand services. These requirements come to a total of 12 vessels in the 10-year period,
aggregating 122,000 tons. Some other conditions in the contracts had not worked out satisfactorily.

That study has now been substantially completed and the committee has advised the desirability
and the necessity of securing much larger undertakings as to service and new construction in
future contracts. The committee at this time is recommending the advertising of 14 additional
routes, making substantial requirements for the construction of new vessels during the life
of each contract recommended. A total of 40 new vessels will be required under the contracts
proposed, about half of which will be required to be built during the next three years. The
capital cost of this new construction will be approximately $250,000,000, involving approximately
460,000 gross tons. Should bidders be found who will make these undertakings, it will be necessary
to recommend to Congress an increase in the authorized expenditure by the Post Office of about
$5,500,000 annually. It will be most advantageous to grant such an authority.

A conflict as to the administration of the act has arisen in the contention of persons who
have purchased Shipping Board vessels that they are entitled to mail contracts irrespective
of whether they are the lowest bidder, the Post Office, on the other hand, being required by
law to let contracts in that manner. It is urgent that Congress should clarify this situation.

THE BANKING SYSTEM

It is desirable that Congress should consider the revision of some portions of the banking law.

The development of "group" and "chain" banking presents many new problems. The question naturally
arises as to whether if allowed to expand without restraint these methods would dangerously
concentrate control of credit, and whether they would not in any event seriously threaten one
of the fundamentals of the American credit system--which is that credit which is based upon
banking deposits should be controlled by persons within those areas which furnish these deposits
and thus be subject to the restraints of local interest and public opinion in those areas.
To some degree, however, this movement of chain or group banking is a groping for stronger
support to the banks and a more secure basis for these institutions.

The growth in size and stability of the metropolitan banks is in marked contrast to the trend
in the country districts, with its many failures and the losses these failures have imposed
upon the agricultural community.

The relinquishment of charters of national banks in great commercial centers in favor of State
charters indicates that some conditions surround the national banks which render them unable
to compete with State banks; and their withdrawal results in weakening our national banking system.

It has been proposed that permission should be granted to national banks to engage in branch
banking of a nature that would preserve within limited regions the local responsibility and
the control of such credit institutions.

All these subjects, however, require careful investigation, and it might be found advantageous
to create a joint commission embracing Members of the Congress and other appropriate Federal
officials for subsequent report.

ELECTRICAL POWER REGULATION

The Federal Power Commission is now comprised of three Cabinet officers, and the duties involved
in the competent conduct of the growing responsibilities of this commission far exceed the
time and attention which these officials can properly afford from other important duties. I
recommended that authority be given for the appointment of full-time commissioners to replace them.

It is also desirable that the authority of the commission should be extended to certain phases
of power regulation. The nature of the electric utilities industry is such that about 90 per
cent of all power generation and distribution is intrastate in character, and most of the States
have developed their own regulatory systems as to certificates of convenience, rates, and profits
of such utilities. To encroach upon their authorities and responsibilities would be an encroachment
upon the rights of the States. There are cases, however, of interstate character beyond the
jurisdiction of the States. To meet these cases it would be most desirable if a method could
be worked out by which initial action may be taken between the commissions of the States whose
joint action should be made effective by the Federal Power Commission with a reserve to act
on its own motion in case of disagreement or nonaction by the States.

THE RADIO COMMISSION

I recommend the reorganization of the Radio Commission into a permanent body from its present
temporary status. The requirement of the present law that the commissioners shall be appointed
from specified zones should be abolished and a general provision made for their equitable selection
from different parts of the country. Despite the effort of the commissioners, the present method
develops a public insistence that the commissioners are specially charged with supervision
of radio affairs in the zone from which each is appointed. As a result there is danger that
the system will degenerate from a national system into five regional agencies with varying
practices, varying policies, competitive tendencies, and consequent failure to attain its utmost
capacity for service to the people as a whole.

MUSCLE SHOALS

It is most desirable that this question should be disposed of. Under present conditions the
income from these plants is less than could otherwise be secured for its use, and more especially
the public is not securing the full benefits which could be obtained from them.

It is my belief that such parts of these plants as would be useful and the revenues from the
remainder should be dedicated for all time to the farmers of the United States for investigation
and experimentation on a commercial scale in agricultural chemistry. By such means advancing
discoveries of science can be systematically applied to agricultural need, and development
of the chemical industry of the Tennessee Valley can be assured.

I do not favor the operation by the Government of either power or manufacturing business except
as an unavoidable by-product of some other major public purpose.

Any form of settlement of this question will imply entering upon a contract or contracts for
the lease of the plants either as a whole or in parts and the reservation of facilities, products,
or income for agricultural purposes. The extremely technical and involved nature of such contracts
dealing with chemical and electrical enterprises, added to the unusual difficulties surrounding
these special plants, and the rapid commercial changes now in progress in power and synthetic
nitrogen manufacture, lead me to suggest that Congress create a special commission, not to
investigate and report as in the past, but with authority to negotiate and complete some sort
of contract or contracts on behalf of the Government, subject, of course, to such general requirements
as Congress may stipulate.

BOULDER DAM

The Secretary of the Interior is making satisfactory progress in negotiation of the very complex
contracts required for the sale of the power to be generated at this project. These contracts
must assure the return of all Government outlays upon the project. I recommend that the necessary
funds be appropriated for the initiation of this work as soon as the contracts are in the hands
of Congress.

CONSERVATION

Conservation of national resources is a fixed policy of the Government. Three important questions
bearing upon conservation of the public lands have become urgent.

Conservation of our oil and gas resources against future need is a national necessity. The
working of the oil permit system in development of oil and gas resources on the public domain
has been subject to great abuse. I considered it necessary to suspend the issuance of such
permits and to direct the review of all outstanding permits as to compliance of the holders
with the law. The purpose was not only to end such abuse but to place the Government in position
to review the entire subject.

We are also confronted with a major problem in conservation due to the overgrazing on public
lands. The effect of overgrazing (which has now become general) is not only to destroy the
ranges but by impairing the ground coverage seriously to menace the water supply in many parts
of the West through quick run-off, spring floods, and autumn drought.

We have a third problem of major dimensions in the reconsideration of our reclamation policy.
The inclusion of most of the available lands of the public domain in existing or planned reclamation
projects largely completes the original purpose of the Reclamation Service. There still remains
the necessity for extensive storage of water in the arid States which renders it desirable
that we should give a wider vision and purpose to this service.

To provide for careful consideration of these questions and also of better division of responsibilities
in them as between the State and Federal Governments, including the possible transfer to the
States for school purposes of the lands unreserved for forests, parks, power, minerals, etc.,
I have appointed a Commission on Conservation of the Public Domain, with a membership representing
the major public land States and at the same time the public at large. I recommend that Congress
should authorize a moderate sum to defray their expenses.

SOCIAL SERVICE

The Federal Government provides for an extensive and valuable program of constructive social
service, in education, home building, protection to women and children, employment, public
health, recreation, and many other directions.

In a broad sense Federal activity in these directions has been confined to research and dissemination
of information and experience, and at most to temporary subsidies to the States in order to
secure uniform advancement in practice and methods. Any other attitude by the Federal Government
will undermine one of the most precious possessions of the American people; that is, local
and individual responsibility. We should adhere to this policy.

Federal officials can, however, make a further and most important contribution by leadership
in stimulation of the community and voluntary agencies, and by extending Federal assistance
in organization of these forces and bringing about cooperation among them.

As an instance of this character, I have recently, in cooperation with the Secretaries of Interior
and Labor, laid the foundations of an exhaustive inquiry into the facts precedent to a nation-wide
White House conference on child health and protection. This cooperative movement among interested
agencies will impose no expense upon the Government. Similar nation-wide conferences will be
called in connection with better housing and recreation at a later date.

In view of the considerable difference of opinion as to the policies which should be pursued
by the Federal Government with respect to education, I have appointed a committee representative
of the important educational associations and others to investigate and present recommendations.
In cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, I have also appointed a voluntary committee
of distinguished membership to assist in a nation-wide movement for abolition of illiteracy.

I have recommended additional appropriations for the Federal employment service in order that
it may more fully cover its cooperative work with State and local services. I have also recommended
additional appropriations for the Women's and Children's Bureaus for much needed research as
to facts which I feel will prove most helpful.

PUBLIC HEALTH

The advance in scientific discovery as to disease and health imposes new considerations upon
us. The Nation as a whole is vitally interested in the health of all the people; in protection
from spread of contagious disease; in the relation of physical and mental disabilities to criminality;
and in the economic and moral advancement which is fundamentally associated with sound body
and mind. The organization of preventive measures and health education in its personal application
is the province of public health service. Such organization should be as universal as public
education. Its support is a proper burden upon the taxpayer. It can not be organized with success,
either in its sanitary or educational phases, except under public authority. It should be based
upon local and State responsibility, but I consider that the Federal Government has an obligation
of contribution to the establishment of such agencies.

In the practical working out of organization, exhaustive experiment and trial have demonstrated
that the base should be competent organization of the municipality, county, or other local
unit. Most of our municipalities and some 400 rural counties out of 3,000 now have some such
unit organization. Where highly developed, a health unit comprises at least a physician, sanitary
engineer, and community nurse with the addition, in some cases, of another nurse devoted to
the problems of maternity and children. Such organization gives at once a fundamental control
of preventive measures and assists in community instruction. The Federal Government, through
its interest in control of contagion, acting through the United States Public Health Service
and the State agencies, has in the past and should in the future concern itself with this development,
particularly in the many rural sections which are unfortunately far behind in progress. Some
parts of the funds contributed under the Sheppard-Towner Act through the Children's Bureau
of the Department of Labor have also found their way into these channels.

I recommend to the Congress that the purpose of the Sheppard-Towner Act should be continued
through the Children's Bureau for a limited period of years; and that the Congress should consider
the desirability of confining the use of Federal funds by the States to the building up of
such county or other local units, and that such outlay should be positively coordinated with
the funds expended through the United States Public Health Service directed to other phases
of the same county or other local unit organization. All funds appropriated should of course
be applied through the States, so that the public health program of the county or local unit
will be efficiently coordinated with that of the whole State.

FEDERAL PRISONS

Closely related to crime conditions is the administration of the Federal prison system. Our
Federal penal institutions are overcrowded, and this condition is daily becoming worse. The
parole and probation systems are inadequate. These conditions make it impossible to perform
the work of personal reconstruction of prisoners so as to prepare them for return to the duties
of citizenship. In order to relieve the pressing evils I have directed the temporary transfer
of the Army Disciplinary Barracks at Leavenworth to the Department of Justice for use as a
Federal prison. Not only is this temporary but it is inadequate for present needs.

We need some new Federal prisons and a reorganization of our probation and parole systems;
and there should be established in the Department of Justice a Bureau of Prisons with a sufficient
force to deal adequately with the growing activities of our prison institutions. Authorization
for the improvements should be given speedily, with initial appropriations to allow the construction
of the new institutions to be undertaken at once. IMMIGRATION

Restriction of immigration has from every aspect proved a sound national policy. Our pressing
problem is to formulate a method by which the limited number of immigrants whom we do welcome
shall be adapted to our national setting and our national needs.

I have been opposed to the basis of the quotas now in force and I have hoped that we could
find some practical method to secure what I believe should be our real national objective;
that is, fitness of the immigrant as to physique, character, training, and our need of service.
Perhaps some system of priorities within the quotas could produce these results and at the
same time enable some hardships in the present system to be cleared up. I recommend that the
Congress should give the subject further study, in which the executive departments will gladly
cooperate with the hope of discovering such method as will more fully secure our national necessities.
VETERANS

It has been the policy of our Government almost from its inception to make provision for the
men who have been disabled in defense of our country. This policy should be maintained. Originally
it took the form of land grants and pensions. This system continued until our entry into the
World War. The Congress at that time inaugurated a new plan of compensation, rehabilitation,
hospitalization, medical care and treatment, and insurance, whereby benefits were awarded to
those veterans and their immediate dependents whose disabilities were attributable to their
war service. The basic principle in this legislation is sound.

In a desire to eliminate all possibilities of injustice due to difficulties in establishing
service connection of disabilities, these principles have been to some degree extended. Veterans
whose diseases or injuries have become apparent within a brief period after the war are now
receiving compensation; insurance benefits have been liberalized. Emergency officers are now
receiving additional benefits. The doors of the Government's hospitals have been opened to
all veterans, even though their diseases or injuries were not the result of their war service.
In addition adjusted service certificates have been issued to 3,433,300 veterans. This in itself
will mean an expenditure of nearly $3,500,000,000 before 1945, in addition to the $600,000,000
which we are now appropriating annually for our veterans' relief.

The administration of all laws concerning the veterans and their dependents has been upon the
basis of dealing generously, humanely, and justly. While some inequalities have arisen, substantial
and adequate care has been given and justice administered. Further improvement in administration
may require some amendment from time to time to the law, but care should be taken to see that
such changes conform to the basic principles of the legislation.

I am convinced that we will gain in efficiency, economy, and more uniform administration and
better definition of national policies if the Pension Bureau, the National Home for Volunteer
Soldiers, and the Veterans' Bureau are brought together under a single agency. The total appropriations
to these agencies now exceed $800,000,000 per annum.

CIVIL SERVICE

Approximately four-fifths of all the employees in the executive civil service now occupy positions
subject to competitive examination under the civil service law.

There are, however, still commanding opportunities for extending the system. These opportunities
lie within the province of Congress and not the President. I recommend that a further step
be taken by authorization that appointments of third-class postmasters be made under the civil
service law.

DEPARTMENTAL REORGANIZATION

This subject has been under consideration for over 20 years. It was promised by both political
parties in the recent campaign. It has been repeatedly examined by committees and commissions--congressional,
executive, and voluntary. The conclusions of these investigations have been unanimous that
reorganization is a necessity of sound administration; of economy; of more effective governmental
policies and of relief to the citizen from unnecessary harassment in his relations with a multitude
of scattered governmental agencies. But the presentation of any specific plan at once enlivens
opposition from every official whose authority may be curtailed or who fears his position is
imperiled by such a result; of bureaus and departments which wish to maintain their authority
and activities; of citizens and their organizations who are selfishly interested, or who are
inspired by fear that their favorite bureau may, in a new setting, be less subject to their
influence or more subject to some other influence.

It seems to me that the essential principles of reorganization are two in number. First, all
administrative activities of the same major purpose should be placed in groups under single-headed
responsibility; second, all executive and administrative functions should be separated from
boards and commissions and placed under individual responsibility, while quasi-legislative
and quasi-judicial and broadly advisory functions should be removed from individual authority
and assigned to boards and commissions. Indeed, these are the fundamental principles upon which
our Government was founded, and they are the principles which have been adhered to in the whole
development of our business structure, and they are the distillation of the common sense of
generations.

For instance, the conservation of national resources is spread among eight agencies in five
departments. They suffer from conflict and overlap. There is no proper development and adherence
to broad national policies and no central point where the searchlight of public opinion may
concentrate itself. These functions should be grouped under the direction of some such official
as an assistant secretary of conservation. The particular department or cabinet officer under
which such a group should be placed is of secondary importance to the need of concentration.
The same may be said of educational services, of merchant marine aids, of public works, of
public health, of veterans' services, and many others, the component parts of which are widely
scattered in the various departments and independent agencies. It is desirable that we first
have experience with these different groups in action before we create new departments. These
may be necessary later on.

With this background of all previous experience I can see no hope for the development of a
sound reorganization of the Government unless Congress be willing to delegate its authority
over the problem (subject to defined principles) to the Executive, who should act upon approval
of a joint committee of Congress or with the reservation of power of revision by Congress within
some limited period adequate for its consideration. PROHIBITION

The first duty of the President under his oath of office is to secure the enforcement of the
laws. The enforcement of the laws enacted to give effect to the eighteenth amendment is far
from satisfactory and this is in part due to the inadequate organization of the administrative
agencies of the Federal Government. With the hope of expediting such reorganization, I requested
on June 6 last that Congress should appoint a joint committee to collaborate with executive
agencies in preparation of legislation. It would be helpful if it could be so appointed. The
subject has been earnestly considered by the Law Enforcement Commission and the administrative
officials of the Government. Our joint conclusions are that certain steps should be taken at
once. First, there should be an immediate concentration of responsibility and strengthening
of enforcement agencies of the Federal Government by transfer to the Department of Justice
of the Federal functions of detection and to a considerable degree of prosecution, which are
now lodged in the Prohibition Bureau in the Treasury; and at the same time the control of the
distribution of industrial alcohol and legalized beverages should remain in the Treasury. Second,
provision should be made for relief of congestion in the Federal courts by modifying and simplifying
the procedure for dealing with the large volume of petty prosecutions under various Federal
acts. Third, there should be a codification of the laws relating to prohibition to avoid the
necessity which now exists of resorting to more than 25 statutes enacted at various times over
40 years. Technical defects in these statutes that have been disclosed should be cured. I would
add to these recommendations the desirability of reorganizing the various services engaged
in the prevention of smuggling into one border patrol under the Coast Guard. Further recommendations
upon the subject as a whole will be developed after further examination by the Law Enforcement
Commission, but it is not to be expected that any criminal law will ever be fully enforced
so long as criminals exist.

The District of Columbia should be the model of city law enforcement in the Nation. While conditions
here are much better than in many other cities, they are far from perfect, and this is due
in part to the congestion of criminal cases in the Supreme Court of the District, resulting
in long delays. Furthermore, there is need for legislation in the District supplementing the
national prohibition act, more sharply defining and enlarging the duties and powers of the
District Commissioners and the police of the District, and opening the way for better cooperation
in the enforcement of prohibition between the District officials and the prohibition officers
of the Federal Government. It is urgent that these conditions be remedied.

LAW ENFORCEMENT AND OBSERVANCE

No one will look with satisfaction upon the volume of crime of all kinds and the growth of
organized crime in our country. We have pressing need so to organize our system of administering
criminal justice as to establish full vigor and effectiveness. We need to reestablish faith
that the highest interests of our country are served by insistence upon the swift and even-handed
administration of justice to all offenders, whether they be rich or poor. That we shall effect
improvement is vital to the preservation of our institutions. It is the most serious issue
before our people.

Under the authority of Congress I have appointed a National Commission on Law Observance and
Enforcement, for an exhaustive study of the entire problem of the enforcement of our laws and
the improvement of our judicial system, including the special problems and abuses growing out
of the prohibition laws. The commission has been invited to make the widest inquiry into the
shortcomings of the administration of justice and into the causes and remedies for them. It
has organized its work under subcommittees dealing with the many contributory causes of our
situation and has enlisted the aid of investigators in fields requiring special consideration.
I am confident that as a result of its studies now being carried forward it will make a notable
contribution to the solution of our pressing problems.

Pending further legislation, the Department of Justice has been striving to weed out inefficiency
wherever it exists, to stimulate activity on the part of its prosecuting officers, and to use
increasing care in examining into the qualifications of those appointed to serve as prosecutors.
The department is seeking systematically to strengthen the law enforcement agencies week by
week and month by month, not by dramatic displays but by steady pressure; by removal of negligent
officials and by encouragement and assistance to the vigilant. During the course of these efforts
it has been revealed that in some districts causes contributing to the congestion of criminal
dockets, and to delays and inefficiency in prosecutions, have been lack of sufficient forces
in the offices of United States attorneys, clerks of courts, and marshals. These conditions
tend to clog the machinery of justice. The last conference of senior circuit judges has taken
note of them and indorsed the department's proposals for improvement. Increases in appropriations
are necessary and will be asked for in order to reenforce these offices.

The orderly administration of the law involves more than the mere machinery of law enforcement.
The efficient use of that machinery and a spirit in our people in support of law are alike
essential. We have need for improvement in both. However much we may perfect the mechanism,
still if the citizen who is himself dependent upon some laws for the protection of all that
he has and all that he holds dear, shall insist on selecting the particular laws which he will
obey, he undermines his own safety and that of his country. His attitude may obscure, but it
can not conceal, the ugly truth that the lawbreaker, whoever he may be, is the enemy of society.
We can no longer gloss over the unpleasant reality which should be made vital in the consciousness
of every citizen, that he who condones or traffics with crime, who is indifferent to it and
to the punishment of the criminal, or to the lax performance of official duty, is himself the
most effective agency for the breakdown of society.

Law can not rise above its source in good citizenship--in what right-minded men most earnestly
believe and desire. If the law is upheld only by Government officials, then all law is at an
end. Our laws are made by the people themselves; theirs is the right to work for their repeal;
but until repeal it is an equal duty to observe them and demand their enforcement.

I have been gratified at the awakening sense of this responsibility in our citizens during
the past few months, and gratified that many instances have occurred which refuted the cynicism
which has asserted that our system could not convict those who had defied the law and possessed
the means to resist its execution. These things reveal a moral awakening both in the people
and in officials which lies at the very foundation of the rule of law.

CONCLUSION

The test of the rightfulness of our decisions must be whether we have sustained and advanced
the ideals of the American people; self-government in its foundations of local government;
justice whether to the individual or to the group; ordered liberty; freedom from domination;
open opportunity and equality of opportunity; the initiative and individuality of our people;
prosperity and the lessening of poverty; freedom of public opinion; education; advancement
of knowledge; the growth of religious spirit; the tolerance of all faiths; the foundations
of the home and the advancement of peace.

The White House,

December 3, 1929

***

State of the Union Address Herbert Hoover December 2, 1930

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have the honor to comply with the requirement of the Constitution that I should lay before
the Congress information as to the state of the Union, and recommend consideration of such
measures as are necessary and expedient.

Substantial progress has been made during the year in national peace and security; the fundamental
strength of the Nation's economic life is unimpaired; education and scientific discovery have
made advances; our country is more alive to its problems of moral and spiritual welfare.

ECONOMIC SITUATION

During the past 12 months we have suffered with other Nations from economic depression.

The origins of this depression lie to some extent within our own borders through a speculative
period which diverted capital and energy into speculation rather than constructive enterprise.
Had overspeculation in securities been the only force operating, we should have seen recovery
many months ago, as these particular dislocations have generally readjusted themselves.

Other deep-seated causes have been in action, however, chiefly the world-wide overproduction
beyond even the demand of prosperous times for such important basic commodities as wheat, rubber,
coffee, sugar, copper, silver, zinc, to some extent cotton, and other raw materials. The cumulative
effects of demoralizing price falls of these important commodities in the process of adjustment
of production to world consumption have produced financial crises in many countries and have
diminished the buying power of these countries for imported goods to a degree which extended
the difficulties farther afield by creating unemployment in all the industrial nations. The
political agitation in Asia; revolutions in South America and political unrest in some European
States; the methods of sale by Russia of her increasing agricultural exports to European markets;
and our own drought--have all contributed to prolong and deepen the depression.

In the larger view the major forces of the depression now lie outside of the United States,
and our recuperation has been retarded by the unwarranted degree of fear and apprehension created
by these outside forces.

The extent of the depression is indicated by the following approximate percentages of activity
during the past three months as compared with the highly prosperous year of 1928:

Value of department-store sales - 93% of 1928

Volume of manufacturing production - 80% of 1928

Volume of mineral production - 90% of 1928

Volume of factory employment - 84% of 1928

Total of bank deposits - 105% of 1928

Wholesale prices--all commodities - 83% of 1928

Cost of living - 94% of 1928

Various other indexes indicate total decrease of activity from 1928 of from 15 to 20 per cent.

There are many factors which give encouragement for the future. The fact that we are holding
from 80 to 85 per cent of our normal activities and incomes; that our major financial and industrial
institutions have come through the storm unimpaired; that price levels of major commodities
have remained approximately stable for some time; that a number of industries are showing signs
of increasing demand; that the world at large is readjusting itself to the situation; all reflect
grounds for confidence. We should remember that these occasions have been met many times before,
that they are but temporary, that our country is to-day stronger and richer in resources, in
equipment, in skill, than ever in its history. We are in an extraordinary degree self-sustaining,
we will overcome world influences and will lead the march of prosperity as we have always done
hitherto.

Economic depression can not be cured by legislative action or executive pronouncement. Economic
wounds must be healed by the action of the cells of the economic body--the producers and consumers
themselves. Recovery can be expedited and its effects mitigated by cooperative action. That
cooperation requires that every individual should sustain faith and courage; that each should
maintain his self-reliance; that each and every one should search for methods of improving
his business or service; that the vast majority whose income is unimpaired should not hoard
out of fear but should pursue their normal living and recreations; that each should seek to
assist his neighbors who may be less fortunate; that each industry should assist its own employees;
that each community and each State should assume its full responsibilities for organization
of employment and relief of distress with that sturdiness and independence which built a great
Nation.

Our people are responding to these impulses in remarkable degree. The best contribution of
government lies in encouragement of this voluntary cooperation in the community. The Government,
National, State, and local, can join with the community in such programs and do its part. A
year ago I, together with other officers of the Government, initiated extensive cooperative
measures throughout the country.

The first of these measures was an agreement of leading employers to maintain the standards
of wages and of labor leaders to use their influence against strife. In a large sense these
undertakings have been adhered to and we have not witnessed the usual reductions of wages which
have always heretofore marked depressions. The index of union wage scales shows them to be
today fully up to the level of any of the previous three years. In consequence the buying power
of the country has been much larger than would otherwise have been the case. Of equal importance
the Nation has had unusual peace in industry and freedom from the public disorder which has
characterized previous depressions.

The second direction of cooperation has been that our governments, National, State, and local,
the industries and business so distribute employment as to give work to the maximum number
of employees.

The third direction of cooperation has been to maintain and even extend construction work and
betterments in anticipation of the future. It has been the universal experience in previous
depressions that public works and private construction have fallen off rapidly with the general
tide of depression. On this occasion, however, the increased authorization and generous appropriations
by the Congress and the action of States and municipalities have resulted in the expansion
of public construction to an amount even above that in the most prosperous years. In addition
the cooperation of public utilities, railways, and other large organizations has been generously
given in construction and betterment work in anticipation of future need. The Department of
Commerce advises me that as a result, the volume of this type of construction work, which amounted
to roughly $6,300,000,000 in 1929, instead of decreasing will show a total of about $7,000,000,000
for 1930. There has, of course, been a substantial decrease in the types of construction which
could not be undertaken in advance of need.

The fourth direction of cooperation was the organization in such States and municipalities,
as was deemed necessary, of committees to organize local employment, to provide for employment
agencies, and to effect relief of distress.

The result of magnificent cooperation throughout the country has been that actual suffering
has been kept to a minimum during the past 12 months, and our unemployment has been far less
in proportion than in other large industrial countries. Some time ago it became evident that
unemployment would continue over the winter and would necessarily be added to from seasonal
causes and that the savings of workpeople would be more largely depleted. We have as a Nation
a definite duty to see that no deserving person in our country suffers from hunger or cold.
I therefore set up a more extensive organization to stimulate more intensive cooperation throughout
the country. There has been a most gratifying degree of response, from governors, mayors, and
other public officials, from welfare organizations, and from employers in concerns both large
and small. The local communities through their voluntary agencies have assumed the duty of
relieving individual distress and are being generously supported by the public.

The number of those wholly out of employment seeking for work was accurately determined by
the census last April as about 2,500,000. The Department of Labor index of employment in the
larger trades shows some decrease in employment since that time. The problem from a relief
point of view is somewhat less than the published estimates of the number of unemployed would
indicate. The intensive community and individual efforts in providing special employment outside
the listed industries are not reflected in the statistical indexes and tend to reduce such
published figures. Moreover, there is estimated to be a constant figure at all times of nearly
1,000,000 unemployed who are not without annual income but temporarily idle in the shift from
one job to another. We have an average of about three breadwinners to each two families, so
that every person unemployed does not represent a family without income. The view that the
relief problems are less than the gross numbers would indicate is confirmed by the experience
of several cities, which shows that the number of families in distress represents from 10 to
20 per cent of the number of the calculated unemployed. This is not said to minimize the very
real problem which exists but to weigh its actual proportions.

As a contribution to the situation the Federal Government is engaged upon the greatest program
of waterway, harbor, flood control, public building, highway, and airway improvement in all
our history. This, together with loans to merchant shipbuilders, improvement of the Navy and
in military aviation, and other construction work of the Government will exceed $520,000,000
for this fiscal year. This compares with $253,000,000 in the fiscal year 1928. The construction
works already authorized and the continuation of policies in Government aid will require a
continual expenditure upwards of half a billion dollars annually.

I favor still further temporary expansion of these activities in aid to unemployment during
this winter. The Congress will, however, have presented to it numbers of projects, some of
them under the guise of, rather than the reality of, their usefulness in the increase of employment
during the depression. There are certain commonsense limitations upon any expansions of construction
work. The Government must not undertake works that are not of sound economic purpose and that
have not been subject to searching technical investigation, and which have not been given adequate
consideration by the Congress. The volume of construction work in the Government is already
at the maximum limit warranted by financial prudence as a continuing policy. To increase taxation
for purposes of construction work defeats its own purpose, as such taxes directly diminish
employment in private industry. Again any kind of construction requires, after its authorization,
a considerable time before labor can be employed in which to make engineering, architectural,
and legal preparations. Our immediate problem is the increase of employment for the next six
months, and new plans which do not produce such immediate result or which extend commitments
beyond this period are not warranted.

The enlarged rivers and harbors, public building, and highway plans authorized by the Congress
last session, however, offer an opportunity for assistance by the temporary acceleration of
construction of these programs even faster than originally planned, especially if the technical
requirements of the laws which entail great delays could be amended in such fashion as to speed
up acquirements of land and the letting of contracts.

With view, however, to the possible need for acceleration, we, immediately upon receiving those
authorities from the Congress five months ago, began the necessary technical work in preparation
for such possible eventuality. I have canvassed the departments of the Government as to the
maximum amount that can be properly added to our present expenditure to accelerate all construction
during the next six months, and I feel warranted in asking the Congress for an appropriation
of from $100,000,000 to $150,000,000 to provide such further employment in this emergency.
In connection therewith we need some authority to make enlarged temporary advances of Federal-highway
aid to the States.

I recommend that this appropriation be made distributable to the different departments upon
recommendation of a committee of the Cabinet and approval by the President. Its application
to works already authorized by the Congress assures its use in directions of economic importance
and to public welfare. Such action will imply an expenditure upon construction of all kinds
of over $650,000,000 during the next twelve months.

AGRICULTURE

The world-wide depression has affected agriculture in common with all other industries. The
average price of farm produce has fallen to about 80 per cent of the levels of 1928. This average
is, however, greatly affected by wheat and cotton, which have participated in world-wide overproduction
and have fallen to about 60 per cent of the average price of the year 1928. Excluding these
commodities, the prices of all other agricultural products are about 84 per cent of those of
1928. The average wholesale prices of other primary goods, such as nonferrous metals, have
fallen to 76 per cent of 1928.

The price levels of our major agricultural commodities are, in fact, higher than those in other
principal producing countries, due to the combined result of the tariff and the operations
of the Farm Board. For instance, wheat prices at Minneapolis are about 30 per cent higher than
at Winnipeg, and at Chicago they are about 20 per cent higher than at Buenos Aires. Corn prices
at Chicago are over twice as high as at Buenos Aires. Wool prices average more than 80 per
cent higher in this country than abroad, and butter is 30 per cent higher in New York City
than in Copenhagen.

Aside from the misfortune to agriculture of the world-wide depression we have had the most
severe drought. It has affected particularly the States bordering on the Potomac, Ohio, and
Lower Mississippi Rivers, with some areas in Montana, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. It has found
its major expression in the shortage of pasturage and a shrinkage in the corn crop from an
average of about 2,800,000,000 bushels to about 2,090,000,000 bushels.

On August 14 I called a conference of the governors of the most acutely affected States, and
as a result of its conclusions I appointed a national committee comprising the heads of the
important Federal agencies under the chairmanship of the Secretary of Agriculture. The governors
in turn have appointed State committees representative of the farmers, bankers, business men,
and the Red Cross, and subsidiary committees have been established in most of the acutely affected
counties. Railway rates were reduced on feed and livestock in and out of the drought areas,
and over 50,000 cars of such products have been transported under these reduced rates. The
Red Cross established a preliminary fund of $5,000,000 for distress relief purposes and established
agencies for its administration in each county. Of this fund less than $500,000 has been called
for up to this time as the need will appear more largely during the winter. The Federal Farm
Loan Board has extended its credit facilities, and the Federal Farm Board has given financial
assistance to all affected cooperatives.

In order that the Government may meet its full obligation toward our countrymen in distress
through no fault of their own, I recommend that an appropriation should be made to the Department
of Agriculture to be loaned for the purpose of seed and feed for animals. Its application should
as hitherto in such loans be limited to a gross amount to any one individual, and secured upon
the crop.

The Red Cross can relieve the cases of individual distress by the sympathetic assistance of
our people.

FINANCES OF THE GOVERNMENT

I shall submit the detailed financial position of the Government with recommendations in the
usual Budget message. I will at this time, however, mention that the Budget estimates of receipts
and expenditures for the current year were formulated by the Treasury and the Budget Bureau
at a time when it was impossible to forecast the severity of the business depression and have
been most seriously affected by it. At that time a surplus of about $123,000,000 was estimated
for this fiscal year and tax reduction which affected the fiscal year to the extent of $75,000,000
was authorized by the Congress, thus reducing the estimated surplus to about $48,000,000. Closely
revised estimates now made by the Treasury and the Bureau of the Budget of the tax, postal,
and other receipts for the current fiscal year indicate a decrease of about $430,000,000 from
the estimate of a year ago, of which about $75,000,000 is due to tax reduction, leaving about
$355,000,000 due to the depression. Moreover, legislation enacted by Congress subsequent to
the submission of the Budget enlarging Federal construction work to expand employment and for
increase in veterans' services and other items, have increased expenditures during the current
fiscal year by about $225,000,000.

Thus the decrease of $430,000,000 in revenue and the increase of $225,000,000 in expenditure
adversely change the original Budget situation by about $655,000,000. This large sum is offset
by the original estimated surplus a year ago of about $123,000,000, by the application of $185,000,000
of interest payments upon the foreign debt to current expenditures, by arrangements of the
Farm Board through repayments, etc., in consequence of which they reduced their net cash demands
upon the Treasury by $100,000,000 in this period, and by about $67,000,000 economies and deferments
brought about in the Government, thus reducing the practical effect of the change in the situation
to an estimated deficit of about $180,000,000 for the present fiscal year. I shall make suggestions
for handling the present-year deficit in the Budget message, but I do not favor encroachment
upon the statutory reduction of the public debt.

While it will be necessary in public interest to further increase expenditures during the current
fiscal year in aid to unemployment by speeding up construction work and aid to the farmers
affected by the drought, I can not emphasize too strongly the absolute necessity to defer any
other plans for increase of Government expenditures. The Budget for 1932 fiscal year indicates
estimated expenditure of about $4,054,000,000, including postal deficit. The receipts are estimated
at about $4,085,000,000 if the temporary tax reduction of last year be discontinued, leaving
a surplus of only about $30,000,000. Most rigid economy is therefore necessary to avoid increase
in taxes.

NATIONAL DEFENSE

Our Army and Navy are being maintained at a high state of efficiency, under officers of high
training and intelligence, supported by a devoted personnel of the rank and file. The London
naval treaty has brought important economies in the conduct of the Navy. The Navy Department
will lay before the committees of the Congress recommendations for a program of authorization
of new construction which should be initiated in the fiscal year of 1932.

LEGISLATION

This is the last session of the Seventy-first Congress. During its previous sittings it has
completed a very large amount of important legislation, notably: The establishment of the Federal
Farm Board; fixing congressional reapportionment; revision of the tariff, including the flexible
provisions and a reorganization of the Tariff Commission; reorganization of the Radio Commission;
reorganization of the Federal Power Commission; expansion of Federal prisons; reorganization
of parole and probation system in Federal prisons; expansion of veterans' hospitals; establishment
of disability allowances to veterans; consolidation of veteran activities; consolidation and
strengthening of prohibition enforcement activities in the Department of Justice; organization
of a Narcotics Bureau; large expansion of rivers and harbors improvements; substantial increase
in Federal highways; enlargement of public buildings construction program; and the ratification
of the London naval treaty.

The Congress has before it legislation partially completed in the last sitting in respect to
Muscle Shoals, bus regulation, relief of congestion in the courts, reorganization of border
patrol in prevention of smuggling, law enforcement in the District of Columbia, and other subjects.

It is desirable that these measures should be completed.

The short session does not permit of extensive legislative programs, but there are a number
of questions which, if time does not permit action, I recommend should be placed in consideration
by the Congress, perhaps through committees cooperating in some instances with the Federal
departments, with view to preparation for subsequent action. Among them are the following subjects:

ELECTRICAL POWER

I have in a previous message recommended effective regulation of interstate electrical power.
Such regulation should preserve the independence and responsibility of the States.

RAILWAYS

We have determined upon a national policy of consolidation of the railways as a necessity of
more stable and more economically operated transportation. Further legislation is necessary
to facilitate such consolidation. In the public interest we should strengthen the railways
that they may meet our future needs.

ANTITRUST LAWS

I recommend that the Congress institute an inquiry into some aspects of the economic working
of these laws. I do not favor repeal of the Sherman Act. The prevention of monopolies is of
most vital public importance. Competition is not only the basis of protection to the consumer
but is the incentive to progress. However, the interpretation of these laws by the courts,
the changes in business, especially in the economic effects upon those enterprises closely
related to the use of the natural resources of the country, make such an inquiry advisable.
The producers of these materials assert that certain unfortunate results of wasteful and destructive
use of these natural resources together with a destructive competition which impoverishes both
operator and worker can not be remedied because of the prohibitive interpretation of the antitrust
laws. The well-known condition of the bituminous coal industry is an illustration. The people
have a vital interest in the conservation of their natural resources; in the prevention of
wasteful practices; in conditions of destructive competition which may impoverish the producer
and the wage earner; and they have an equal interest in maintaining adequate competition. I
therefore suggest that an inquiry be directed especially to the effect of the workings of the
antitrust laws in these particular fields to determine if these evils can be remedied without
sacrifice of the fundamental purpose of these laws.

CAPITAL-GAINS TAX

It is urged by many thoughtful citizens that the peculiar economic effect of the income tax
on so-called capital gains at the present rate is to enhance speculative inflation and likewise
impede business recovery. I believe this to be the case and I recommend that a study be made
of the economic effects of this tax and of its relation to the general structure of our income
tax law.

IMMIGRATION

There is need for revision of our immigration laws upon a more limited and more selective basis,
flexible to the needs of the country.

Under conditions of current unemployment it is obvious that persons coming to the United States
seeking work would likely become either a direct or indirect public charge. As a temporary
measure the officers issuing visas to immigrants have been, in pursuance of the law, instructed
to refuse visas to applicants likely to fall into this class. As a result the visas issued
have decreased from an average of about 24,000 per month prior to restrictions to a rate of
about 7,000 during the last month. These are largely preferred persons under the law. Visas
from Mexico are about 250 per month compared to about 4,000 previous to restrictions. The whole
subject requires exhaustive reconsideration.

DEPORTATION OF ALIEN CRIMINALS

I urge the strengthening of our deportation laws so as to more fully rid ourselves of criminal
aliens. Furthermore, thousands of persons have entered the country in violation of the immigration
laws. The very method of their entry indicates their objectionable character, and our law-abiding
foreign-born residents suffer in consequence. I recommend that the Congress provide methods
of strengthening the Government to correct this abuse.

POST OFFICE

Due to deferment of Government building over many years, previous administrations had been
compelled to enter upon types of leases for secondary facilities in large cities, some of which
were objectionable as representing too high a return upon the value of the property. To prevent
the occasion for further uneconomic leasing I recommend that the Congress authorize the building
by the Government of its own facilities.

VETERANS

The Nation has generously expanded its care for veterans. The consolidation of all veterans'
activities into the Veterans' Administration has produced substantial administrative economies.
The consolidation also brings emphasis to the inequalities in service and allowances. The whole
subject is under study by the administrator, and I recommend it should also be examined by
the committees of the Congress.

SOCIAL SERVICE

I urge further consideration by the Congress of the recommendations I made a year ago looking
to the development through temporary Federal aid of adequate State and local services for the
health of children and the further stamping out of communicable disease, particularly in the
rural sections. The advance of scientific discovery, methods, and social thought imposes a
new vision in these matters. The drain upon the Federal Treasury is comparatively small. The
results both economic and moral are of the utmost importance.

GENERAL

It is my belief that after the passing of this depression, when we can examine it in retrospect,
we shall need to consider a number of other questions as to what action may be taken by the
Government to remove Possible governmental influences which make for instability and to better
organize mitigation of the effect of depression. It is as yet too soon to constructively formulate
such measures.

There are many administrative subjects, such as departmental reorganization, extension of the
civil service, readjustment of the postal rates, etc., which at some appropriate time require
the attention of the Congress.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

Our relations with foreign countries have been maintained upon a high basis of cordiality and
good will.

During the past year the London naval pact was completed, approved by the Senate, and ratified
by the governments concerned. By this treaty we have abolished competition in the building
of warships, have established the basis of parity of the United States with the strongest of
foreign powers, and have accomplished a substantial reduction in war vessels.

During the year there has been an extended political unrest in the world. Asia continues in
disturbed condition, and revolutions have taken place in Brazil, Argentina, Peru, and Bolivia.
Despite the jeopardy to our citizens and their property which naturally arises in such circumstances,
we have, with the cooperation of the governments concerned, been able to meet all such instances
without friction.

We have resumed normal relations with the new Governments of Brazil, Argentina, Peru, and Bolivia
immediately upon evidence that they were able to give protection to our citizens and their
property, and that they recognized their international obligations.

A commission which was supported by the Congress has completed its investigation and reported
upon our future policies in respect to Haiti and proved of high value in securing the acceptance
of these policies. An election has been held and a new government established. We have replaced
our high commissioner by a minister and have begun the gradual withdrawal of our activities
with view to complete retirement at the expiration of the present treaty in 1935.

A number of arbitration and conciliation treaties have been completed or negotiated during
the year, and will be presented for approval by the Senate.

I shall, in a special message, lay before the Senate the protocols covering the statutes of
the World Court which have been revised to accord with the sense of previous Senate reservations.

The White House,

December 2, 1930

***

State of the Union Address Herbert Hoover December 8, 1931

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

It is my duty under the Constitution to transmit to the Congress information on the state of
the Union and to recommend for its consideration necessary and expedient measures.

The chief influence affecting the state of the Union during the past year has been the continued
world-wide economic disturbance. Our national concern has been to meet the emergencies it has
created for us and to lay the foundations for recovery.

If we lift our vision beyond these immediate emergencies we find fundamental national gains
even amid depression. In meeting the problems of this difficult period, we have witnessed a
remarkable development of the sense of cooperation in the community. For the first time in
the history of our major economic depressions there has been a notable absence of public disorders
and industrial conflict. Above all there is an enlargement of social and spiritual responsibility
among the people. The strains and stresses upon business have resulted in closer application,
in saner policies, and in better methods. Public improvements have been carried out on a larger
scale than even in normal times. The country is richer in physical property, in newly discovered
resources, and in productive capacity than ever before. There has been constant gain in knowledge
and education; there has been continuous advance in science and invention; there has been distinct
gain in public health. Business depressions have been recurrent in the life of our country
and are but transitory. The Nation has emerged from each of them with increased strength and
virility because of the enlightenment they have brought, the readjustments and the larger understanding
of the realities and obligations of life and work which come from them. The ability and devotion
of both officers and men sustain the highest traditions of the service. Reductions and postponements
in expenditure of these departments to meet the present emergency are being made without reducing
existing personnel or impairing the morale of either establishment.

The agreement between the leading naval powers for limitation of naval armaments and establishment
of their relative strength and thus elimination of competitive building also implies for ourselves
the gradual expansion of the deficient categories in our Navy to the parities provided in those
treaties. However, none of the other nations, parties to these agreements, is to-day maintaining
the full rate of construction which the treaty size of fleets would imply.

Although these agreements secured the maximum reduction of fleets which it was at that time
possible to attain, I am hopeful that the naval powers, party to these agreements, will realize
that establishment of relative strength in itself offers opportunity for further reduction
without injury to any of them. This would be the more possible if pending negotiations are
successful between France and Italy. If the world is to regain its standards of life, it must
further decrease both naval and other arms. The subject will come before the General Disarmament
Conference which meets in Geneva on February 2.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS

We are at peace with the world. We have cooperated with other nations to preserve peace. The
rights of our citizens abroad have been protected.

The economic depression has continued and deepened in every part of the world during the past
year. In many countries political instability, excessive armaments, debts, governmental expenditures,
and taxes have resulted in revolutions, in unbalanced budgets and monetary collapse and financial
panics, in dumping of goods upon world markets, and in diminished consumption of commodities.

Within two years there have been revolutions or acute social disorders in 19 countries, embracing
more than half the population of the world. Ten countries have been unable to meet their external
obligations. In 14 countries, embracing a quarter of the world's population, former monetary
standards have been temporarily abandoned. In a number of countries there have been acute financial
panics or compulsory restraints upon banking. These disturbances have many roots in the dislocations
from the World War. Every one of them has reacted upon us. They have sharply affected the markets
and prices of our agricultural and industrial products. They have increased unemployment and
greatly embarrassed our financial and credit system.

As our difficulties during the past year have plainly originated in large degree from these
sources, any effort to bring about our own recuperation has dictated the necessity of cooperation
by us with other nations in reasonable effort to restore world confidence and economic stability.

Cooperation of our Federal reserve system and our banks with the central banks in foreign countries
has contributed to localize and ameliorate a number of serious financial crises or moderate
the pressures upon us and thus avert disasters which would have affected us.

The economic crisis in Germany and Central Europe last June rose to the dimensions of a general
panic from which it was apparent that without assistance these nations must collapse. Apprehensions
of such collapse had demoralized our agricultural and security markets and so threatened other
nations as to impose further dangers upon us. But of highest importance was the necessity of
cooperation on our part to relieve the people of Germany from imminent disasters and to maintain
their important relations to progress and stability in the world. Upon the initiative of this
Government a year's postponement of reparations and other intergovernmental debts was brought
about. Upon our further initiative an agreement was made by Germany's private creditors providing
for an extension of such credits until the German people can develop more permanent and definite
forms of relief.

We have continued our policy of withdrawing our marines from Haiti and Nicaragua.

The difficulties between China and Japan have given us great concern, not alone for the maintenance
of the spirit of the Kellogg-Briand Pact, but for the maintenance of the treaties to which
we are a party assuring the territorial integrity of China. It is our purpose to assist in
finding solutions sustaining the full spirit of those treaties.

I shall deal at greater length with our foreign relations in a later message.

THE DOMESTIC SITUATION

Many undertakings have been organized and forwarded during the past year to meet the new and
changing emergencies which have constantly confronted us.

Broadly the community has cooperated to meet the needs of honest distress, and to take such
emergency measures as would sustain confidence in our financial system and would cushion the
violence of liquidation in industry and commerce, thus giving time for orderly readjustment
of costs, inventories, and credits without panic and widespread bankruptcy. These measures
have served those purposes and will promote recovery.

In these measures we have striven to mobilize and stimulate private initiative and local and
community responsibility. There has been the least possible Government entry into the economic
field, and that only in temporary and emergency form. Our citizens and our local governments
have given a magnificent display of unity and action, initiative and patriotism in solving
a multitude of difficulties and in cooperating with the Federal Government.

For a proper understanding of my recommendations to the Congress it is desirable very briefly
to review such activities during the past year.

The emergencies of unemployment have been met by action in many directions. The appropriations
for the continued speeding up of the great Federal construction program have provided direct
and indirect aid to employment upon a large scale. By organized unity of action, the States
and municipalities have also maintained large programs of public improvement. Many industries
have been prevailed upon to anticipate and intensify construction. Industrial concerns and
other employers have been organized to spread available work amongst all their employees, instead
of discharging a portion of them. A large majority have maintained wages at as high levels
as the safe conduct of their business would permit. This course has saved us from industrial
conflict and disorder which have characterized all previous depressions. Immigration has been
curtailed by administrative action. Upon the basis of normal immigration the decrease amounts
to about 300,000 individuals who otherwise would have been added to our unemployment. The expansion
of Federal employment agencies under appropriations by the Congress has proved most effective.
Through the President's organization for unemployment relief, public and private agencies were
successfully mobilized last winter to provide employment and other measures against distress.
Similar organization gives assurance against suffering during the coming winter. Committees
of leading citizens are now active at practically every point of unemployment. In the large
majority they have been assured the funds necessary which, together with local government aids,
will meet the situation. A few exceptional localities will be further organized. The evidence
of the Public Health Service shows an actual decrease of sickness and infant and general mortality
below normal years. No greater proof could be adduced that our people have been protected from
hunger and cold and that the sense of social responsibility in the Nation has responded to
the need of the unfortunate.

To meet the emergencies in agriculture the loans authorized by Congress for rehabilitation
in the drought areas have enabled farmers to produce abundant crops in those districts. The
Red Cross undertook and magnificently administered relief for over 2,500,000 drought sufferers
last winter. It has undertaken this year to administer relief to 100,000 sufferers in the new
drought area of certain Northwest States. The action of the Federal Farm Board in granting
credits to farm cooperatives saved many of them from bankruptcy and increased their purpose
and strength. By enabling farm cooperatives to cushion the fall in prices of farm products
in 1930 and 1931 the Board secured higher prices to the farmer than would have been obtained
otherwise, although the benefits of this action were partially defeated by continued world
overproduction. Incident to this action the failure of a large number of farmers and of country
banks was averted which could quite possibly have spread into a major disaster. The banks in
the South have cooperated with the Farm Board in creation of a pool for the better marketing
of accumulated cotton. Growers have been materially assisted by this action. Constant effort
has been made to reduce overproduction in relief of agriculture and to promote the foreign
buying of agricultural products by sustaining economic stability abroad.

To meet our domestic emergencies in credit and banking arising from the reaction to acute crisis
abroad the National Credit Association was set up by the banks with resources of $500,000,000
to support sound banks against the frightened withdrawals and hoarding. It is giving aid to
reopen solvent banks which have been closed. Federal officials have brought about many beneficial
unions of banks and have employed other means which have prevented many bank closings. As a
result of these measures the hoarding withdrawals which had risen to over $250,000,000 per
week after the British crisis have substantially ceased.

FURTHER MEASURES

The major economic forces and weaknesses at home and abroad have now been exposed and can be
appraised, and the time is ripe for forward action to expedite our recovery.

Although some of the causes of our depression are due to speculation, inflation of securities
and real estate, unsound foreign investments, and mismanagement of financial institutions,
yet our self-contained national economy, with its matchless strength and resources, would have
enabled us to recover long since but for the continued dislocations, shocks, and setbacks from
abroad.

Whatever the causes may be, the vast liquidation and readjustments which have taken place have
left us with a large degree of credit paralysis, which together with the situation in our railways
and the conditions abroad, are now the outstanding obstacles to recuperation. If we can put
our financial resources to work and can ameliorate the financial situation in the railways,
I am confident we can make a large measure of recovery independent of the rest of the world.
A strong America is the highest contribution to world stability.

One phase of the credit situation is indicated in the banks. During the past year banks, representing
3 per cent of our total deposits have been closed. A large part of these failures have been
caused by withdrawals for hoarding, as distinguished from the failures early in the depression
where weakness due to mismanagement was the larger cause of failure. Despite their closing,
many of them will pay in full. Although such withdrawals have practically ceased, yet $1,100,000,000
of currency was previously withdrawn which has still to return to circulation. This represents
a large reduction of the ability of our banks to extend credit which would otherwise fertilize
industry and agriculture. Furthermore, many of our bankers, in order to prepare themselves
to meet possible withdrawals, have felt compelled to call in loans, to refuse new credits,
and to realize upon securities, which in turn has demoralized the markets. The paralysis has
been further augmented by the steady increase in recent years of the proportion of bank assets
invested in long-term securities, such as mortgages and bonds. These securities tend to lose
their liquidity in depression or temporarily to fall in value so that the ability of the banks
to meet the shock of sudden withdrawal is greatly lessened and the restriction of all kinds
of credit is thereby increased. The continuing credit paralysis has operated to accentuate
the deflation and liquidation of commodities, real estate, and securities below any reasonable
basis of values.

All of this tends to stifle business, especially the smaller units, and finally expresses itself
in further depression of prices and values, in restriction on new enterprise, and in increased
unemployment.

The situation largely arises from an unjustified lack of confidence. We have enormous volumes
of idle money in the banks and in hoarding. We do not require more money or working capital--we
need to put what we have to work.

The fundamental difficulties which have brought about financial strains in foreign countries
do not exist in the United States. No external drain on our resources can threaten our position,
because the balance of international payments is in our favor; we owe less to foreign countries
than they owe to us; our industries are efficiently organized; our currency and bank deposits
are protected by the greatest gold reserve in history.

Our first step toward recovery is to reestablish confidence and thus restore the flow of credit
which is the very basis of our economic life. We must put some steel beams in the foundations
of our credit structure. It is our duty to apply the full strength of our Government not only
to the immediate phases, but to provide security against shocks and the repetition of the weaknesses
which have been proven.

The recommendations which I here lay before the Congress are designed to meet these needs by
strengthening financial, industrial, and agricultural life through the medium of our existing
institutions, and thus to avoid the entry of the Government into competition with private business.

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE

The first requirement of confidence and of economic recovery is financial stability of the
United States Government. I shall deal with fiscal questions at greater length in the Budget
message. But I must at this time call attention to the magnitude of the deficits which have
developed and the resulting necessity for determined and courageous policies. These deficits
arise in the main from the heavy decrease in tax receipts due to the depression and to the
increase in expenditure on construction in aid to unemployment, aids to agriculture, and upon
services to veterans.

During the fiscal year ending June 30 last we incurred a deficit of about $903,000,000, which
included the statutory reduction of the debt and represented an increase of the national debt
by $616,000,000. Of this, however, $153,000,000 is offset by increased cash balances.

In comparison with the fiscal year 1928 there is indicated a fall in Federal receipts for the
present fiscal year amounting to $1,683,000,000, of which $1,034,000,000 is in individual and
corporate income taxes alone. During this fiscal year there will be an increased expenditure,
as compared to 1928, on veterans of $255,000,000, and an increased expenditure on construction
work which may reach $520,000,000. Despite large economies in other directions, we have an
indicated deficit, including the statutory retirement of the debt, of $2,123,000,000, and an
indicated net debt increase of about $1,711,000,000.

The Budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 next, after allowing for some increase of taxes
under the present laws and after allowing for drastic reduction in expenditures, still indicates
a deficit of $1,417,000,000. After offsetting the statutory debt retirements this would indicate
an increase in the national debt for the fiscal year 1933 of about $921,000,000.

Several conclusions are inevitable. We must have insistent and determined reduction in Government
expenses. We must face a temporary increase in taxes. Such increase should not cover the whole
of these deficits or it will retard recovery. We must partially finance the deficit by borrowing.
It is my view that the amount of taxation should be fixed so as to balance the Budget for 1933
except for the statutory debt retirement. Such Government receipts would assure the balance
of the following year's budget including debt retirement. It is my further view that the additional
taxation should be imposed solely as an emergency measure terminating definitely two years
from July 1 next. Such a basis will give confidence in the determination of the Government
to stabilize its finance and will assure taxpayers of its temporary character. Even with increased
taxation, the Government will reach the utmost safe limit of its borrowing capacity by the
expenditures for which we are already obligated and the recommendations here proposed. To go
further than these limits in either expenditures, taxes, or borrowing will destroy confidence,
denude commerce and industry of its resources, jeopardize the financial system, and actually
extend unemployment and demoralize agriculture rather than relieve it.

FEDERAL LAND BANKS

I recommend that the Congress authorize the subscription by the Treasury of further capital
to the Federal land banks to be retired as provided in the original act, or when funds are
available, and that repayments of such capital be treated as a fund available for further subscriptions
in the same manner. It is urgent that the banks be supported so as to stabilize the market
values of their bonds and thus secure capital for the farmers at low rates, that they may continue
their services to agriculture and that they may meet the present situation with consideration
to the farmers.

DEPOSITS IN CLOSED BANKS

A method should be devised to make available quickly to depositors some portion of their deposits
in closed banks as the assets of such banks may warrant. Such provision would go far to relieve
distress in a multitude of families, would stabilize values in many communities, and would
liberate working capital to thousands of concerns. I recommend that measures be enacted promptly
to accomplish these results and I suggest that the Congress should consider the development
of such a plan through the Federal Reserve Banks.

HOME-LOAN DISCOUNT BANKS

I recommend the establishment of a system of home-loan discount banks as the necessary companion
in our financial structure of the Federal Reserve Banks and our Federal Land Banks. Such action
will relieve present distressing pressures against home and farm property owners. It will relieve
pressures upon and give added strength to building and loan associations, savings banks, and
deposit banks, engaged in extending such credits. Such action would further decentralize our
credit structure. It would revive residential construction and employment. It would enable
such loaning institutions more effectually to promote home ownership. I discussed this plan
at some length in a statement made public November 14, last. This plan has been warmly indorsed
by the recent National Conference upon Home Ownership and Housing, whose members were designated
by the governors of the States and the groups interested.

RECONSTRUCTION FINANCE CORPORATION

In order that the public may be absolutely assured and that the Government may be in position
to meet any public necessity, I recommend that an emergency Reconstruction Corporation of the
nature of the former War Finance Corporation should be established. It may not be necessary
to use such an instrumentality very extensively. The very existence of such a bulwark will
strengthen confidence. The Treasury should be authorized to subscribe a reasonable capital
to it, and it should be given authority to issue its own debentures. It should be placed in
liquidation at the end of two years. Its purpose is that by strengthening the weak spots to
thus liberate the full strength of the Nation's resources. It should be in position to facilitate
exports by American agencies; make advances to agricultural credit agencies where necessary
to protect and aid the agricultural industry; to make temporary advances upon proper securities
to established industries, railways, and financial institutions which can not otherwise secure
credit, and where such advances will protect the credit structure and stimulate employment.
Its functions would not overlap those of the National Credit Corporation.

FEDERAL RESERVE ELIGIBILITY

On October 6th I issued a statement that I should recommend to the Congress an extension during
emergencies of the eligibility provisions in the Federal reserve act. This statement was approved
by a representative gathering of the Members of both Houses of the Congress, including members
of the appropriate committees. It was approved by the officials of the Treasury Department,
and I understand such an extension has been approved by a majority of the governors of the
Federal reserve banks. Nothing should be done which would lower the safeguards of the system.

The establishment of the mortgage-discount banks herein referred to will also contribute to
further reserve strength in the banks without inflation.

BANKING LAWS

Our people have a right to a banking system in which their deposits shall be safeguarded and
the flow of credit less subject to storms. The need of a sounder system is plainly shown by
the extent of bank failures. I recommend the prompt improvement of the banking laws. Changed
financial conditions and commercial practices must be met. The Congress should investigate
the need for separation between different kinds of banking; an enlargement of branch banking
under proper restrictions; and the methods by which enlarged membership in the Federal reserve
system may be brought about.

POSTAL SAVINGS BANKS

The Postal Savings deposits have increased from about $200,000,000 to about $550,000,000 during
the past year. This experience has raised important practical questions in relation to deposits
and investments which should receive the attention of the Congress.

RAILWAYS

The railways present one of our immediate and pressing problems. They are and must remain the
backbone of our transportation system. Their prosperity is interrelated with the prosperity
of all industries. Their fundamental service in transportation, the volume of their employment,
their buying power for supplies from other industries, the enormous investment in their securities,
particularly their bonds, by insurance companies, savings banks, benevolent and other trusts,
all reflect their partnership in the whole economic fabric. Through these institutions the
railway bonds are in a large sense the investment of every family. The well-maintained and
successful operation and the stability of railway finances are of primary importance to economic
recovery. They should have more effective opportunity to reduce operating costs by proper consolidation.
As their rates must be regulated in public interest, so also approximate regulation should
be applied to competing services by some authority. The methods of their regulation should
be revised. The Interstate Commerce Commission has made important and far-reaching recommendations
upon the whole subject, which I commend to the early consideration of the Congress.

ANTITRUST LAWS

In my message of a year ago I commented on the necessity of congressional inquiry into the
economic action of the antitrust laws. There is wide conviction that some change should be
made especially in the procedure under these laws. I do not favor their repeal. Such action
would open wide the door to price fixing, monopoly, and destruction of healthy competition.
Particular attention should be given to the industries rounded upon natural resources, especially
where destructive competition produces great wastes of these resources and brings great hardships
upon operators, employees, and the public. In recent years there has been continued demoralization
in the bituminous coal, oil, and lumber industries. I again commend the matter to the consideration
of the Congress.

UNEMPLOYMENT

As an aid to unemployment the Federal Government is engaged in the greatest program of public-building,
harbor, flood-control, highway, waterway, aviation, merchant and naval ship construction in
all history. Our expenditures on these works during this calendar year will reach about $780,000,000
compared with $260,000,000 in 1928. Through this increased construction, through the maintenance
of a full complement of Federal employees, and through services to veterans it is estimated
that the Federal taxpayer is now directly contributing to the livelihood of 10,000,000 of our
citizens.

We must avoid burdens upon the Government which will create more unemployment in private industry
than can be gained by further expansion of employment by the Federal Government. We can now
stimulate employment and agriculture more effectually and speedily through the voluntary measures
in progress, through the thawing out of credit, through the building up of stability abroad,
through the home loan discount banks, through an emergency finance corporation and the rehabilitation
of the railways and other such directions.

I am opposed to any direct or indirect Government dole. The breakdown and increased unemployment
in Europe is due in part to such practices. Our people are providing against distress from
unemployment in true American fashion by a magnificent response to public appeal and by action
of the local governments.

GENERAL LEGISLATION

There are many other subjects requiring legislative action at this session of the Congress.
I may list the following among them:

VETERANS' SERVICES

The law enacted last March authorizing loans of 50 per cent upon adjusted-service certificates
has, together with the loans made under previous laws, resulted in payments of about $1,260,000,000.
Appropriations have been exhausted. The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs advises that a further
appropriation of $200,000,000 is required at once to meet the obligations made necessary by
existing legislation.

There will be demands for further veterans' legislation; there are inequalities in our system
of veterans' relief; it is our national duty to meet our obligations to those who have served
the Nation. But our present expenditure upon these services now exceeds $1,000,000,000 per
annum. I am opposed to any extension of these expenditures until the country has recovered
from the present situation.

ELECTRICAL-POWER REGULATION

I have recommended in previous messages the effective regulation of interstate electrical power
as the essential function of the reorganized Federal Power Commission. I renew the recommendation.
It is urgently needed in public protection.

MUSCLE SHOALS

At my suggestion, the Governors and Legislatures of Alabama and Tennessee selected three members
each for service on a committee to which I appointed a representative of the farm organizations
and two representatives of the War Department for the purpose of recommending a plan for the
disposal of these properties which would be in the interest of the people of those States and
the agricultural industry throughout the country. I shall transmit the recommendations to the
Congress.

REORGANIZATION OF FEDERAL DEPARTMENTS

I have referred in previous messages to the profound need of further reorganization and consolidation
of Federal administrative functions to eliminate overlap and waste, and to enable coordination
and definition of Government policies now wholly impossible in scattered and conflicting agencies
which deal with parts of the same major function. I shall lay before the Congress further recommendations
upon this subject, particularly in relation to the Department of the Interior. There are two
directions of such reorganization, however, which have an important bearing upon the emergency
problems with which we are confronted.

SHIPPING BOARD

At present the Shipping Board exercises large administrative functions independent of the Executive.
These administrative functions should be transferred to the Department of Commerce, in keeping
with that single responsibility which has been the basis of our governmental structure since
its foundation. There should be created in that department a position of Assistant Secretary
for Merchant Marine, under whom this work and the several bureaus having to do with merchant
marine may be grouped.

The Shipping Board should be made a regulatory body acting also in advisory capacity on loans
and policies, in keeping with its original conception. Its regulatory powers should be amended
to include regulation of coastwise shipping so as to assure stability and better service. It
is also worthy of consideration that the regulation of rates and services upon the inland waterways
should be assigned to such a reorganized board.

REORGANIZATION OF PUBLIC WORKS ADMINISTRATION

I recommend that all building and construction activities of the Government now carried on
by many departments be consolidated into an independent establishment under the President to
be known as the "Public Works Administration" directed by a Public Works Administrator. This
agency should undertake all construction work in service to the different departments of the
Government (except naval and military work). The services of the Corps of Army Engineers should
be delegated in rotation for military duty to this administration in continuation of their
supervision of river and harbor work. Great economies, sounder policies, more effective coordination
to employment, and expedition in all construction work would result from this consolidation.

LAW ENFORCEMENT

I shall present some recommendations in a special message looking to the strengthening of criminal-law
enforcement and improvement in judicial procedure connected therewith.

INLAND WATERWAY AND HARBOR IMPROVEMENT

These improvements are now proceeding upon an unprecedented scale. Some indication of the volume
of work in progress is conveyed by the fact that during the current year over 380,000,000 cubic
yards of material have been moved--an amount equal to the entire removal in the construction
of the Panama Canal. My clover was always left free to be pollinated by insects. Obviously this must
have led to a diminution of the differentiating characters of the individual plants. But this
does not go far enough to obliterate the differences, and the selection
made among the seedlings will always throw out at least a large part
of those that have suffered from the cross.

Leaving this discussion, we may inquire closer into the nature of the new criterion afforded
by the seedlings. Two methods present themselves. First, the choice of the best seedlings. In the
second place it becomes possible to compare the parent-plants by counting the number of deviating
seedlings. This leads to the establishment of a percentage for every single parent, and gives
data for comparisons. Two or three hundreds of seeds from a parent may easily be grown in one
pan, and in this way a sufficiently high degree of accuracy may be reached. Only those parents
that give [349] the highest percentage are chosen, and among their progeny only the seedlings with trifoliolate
primary leaves are planted out. The whole procedure of the selection is by this means confined
to the glasshouse during the spring, and the beds need not be large, nor do they require any
special care during the summer.

By this method I brought my strain within two years up to an average
of nearly 90% of the seedlings with a divided primary leaf.

Around this average the real numbers fluctuated between the maximum of 99% and the minimum
of 70% or thereabouts. This condition was reached by the sixth generation in the year 1894, and
has since proved to be the limit, the group of figures remaining
practically the same during all the succeeding generations.

Such selected plants are very rich in leaves with four, five and six
blades.

Excluding the small leaves at the tops of the branches, and those
on the numerous weaker side-branches, these three groups include the
large majority of all the stronger leaves.

In summer the range is wider, and besides many trifoliolate leaves the curiously shaped seven-bladed
ones are not at all rare. In the fall and in the winter the range of variability is narrowed, and at
first sight the plants often seem to bear only quinquefoliolate leaves.

[350] I have cultivated a new generation of this race nearly every year since 1894, using always
the strictest selection. This has led to a uniform type, but has not been adequate to produce
any further improvement. Obviously the extreme limit, under the conditions of climate and soil,
has been reached. This extreme type is always dependent upon repeated selection. No constant
variety, in the older sense, has been obtained, nor was any indication afforded that such a type
might ever be produced. On the contrary, it is manifest that the new form belongs to the group
of ever-sporting varieties.

It is never quite free from the old atavistic type of the trifoliolate leaves, and invariably,
when external conditions become less favorable, this atavistic form is apt to gain dominion over
the more refined varietal character. Reversions always occur, both partial and individual.

Some
instances of these reversions may now be given. They are not of such a striking character as those
of the snapdragon. Intermediate steps are always occurring, both in the leaves themselves,
and in the percentages of deviating seedlings of the several parent plants.

On normal plants of my variety the quinquefoliolate leaves usually compose the majority, when
there are no weak lateral branches, or when they are left out of consideration. Next [351]
to these come the fours and the sixes, while the trifoliolate and seven-bladed types are nearly
equal in number. But out of a lot of plants, grown from seed of the same parent, it is often possible
to choose some in which one extreme prevails, and others with a preponderating number of leaves
with the other extreme number of leaflets. If seed from these extremes are saved separately, one strain,
that with numerous seven-bladed leaves will remain true to the type, but the other will diverge
more or less, producing leaves with a varying number of subdivisions.

Very few generations of such opposite selection are required to reduce
the race to an utterly poor one.

In three years I was able to nearly obliterate the type of my variety.

I chose the seedlings with an undivided primary leaf, cultivated them
and counted their offspring separately after the sowing.

I found some parents with only 2-3% of seedlings with divided primary
leaves.

And by a repeated selection in this retrograde direction I succeeded
in getting a great number of plants, which during the whole summer
made only very few leaves with more than three blades.

 Our national defense has been maintained at a high state of effectiveness.
All of the executive departments of the Government have been conducted during the year with
a high devotion to public interest. There has been a far larger degree of freedom from industrial
conflict than hitherto known. Education and science have made further advances. The public
health is to-day at its highest known level. While we have recently engaged in the aggressive
contest of a national election, its very tranquillity and the acceptance of its results furnish
abundant proof of the strength of our institutions.

In the face of widespread hardship our people have demonstrated daily a magnificent sense of
humanity, of individual and community responsibility for the welfare of the less fortunate.
They have grown in their conceptions and organization for cooperative action for the common
welfare.

In the provision against distress during this winter, the great private agencies of the country
have been mobilized again; the generosity of our people has again come into evidence to a degree
in which all America may take great pride. Likewise the local authorities and the States are
engaged everywhere in supplemental measures of relief. The provisions made for loans from the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, to States that have exhausted their own resources, guarantee
that there should be no hunger or suffering from cold in the country. The large majority of
States are showing a sturdy cooperation in the spirit of the Federal aid.

The Surgeon General, in charge of the Public Health Service, furnishes me with the following
information upon the state of public health:

MORTALITY RATE PER 1,000 OF POPULATION ON AN ANNUAL BASIS FROM REPRESENTATIVE STATES - General
- Infant

First 9 months of-- - -

1928 - 11.9 - 67.8

1929 - 12.0 - 65.8

1930 - 11.4 - 62.0

1931 - 11.2 - 60.0

1932 - 10.6 - 55.0

The sickness rates from data available show the same trends. These facts indicate the fine
endeavor of the agencies which have been mobilized for care of those in distress.

ECONOMIC SITUATION

The unparalleled world-wide economic depression has continued through the year. Due to the
European collapse, the situation developed during last fall and winter into a series of most
acute crises. The unprecedented emergency measures enacted and policies adopted undoubtedly
saved the country from economic disaster. After serving to defend the national security, these
measures began in July to show their weight and influence toward improvement of conditions
in many parts of the country. The following tables of current business indicators show the
general economic movement during the past eleven months.

MONTHLY BUSINESS INDICES WITH SEASONAL VARIATIONS ELIMINATED

Year and Month - Industrial Production - Factory Employment - Freight-car loadings - Department
Store sales, value - Exports, value - Imports, value - Building Contracts, all types - Industrial
Electric power consumption

1931 - - - - - - - -

December - 74 - 69.4 - 69 - 81 - 46 - 48 - 38 - 89.1

1932 - - - - - - - -

January - 72 - 68.1 - 64 - 78 - 39 - 42 - 31 - 93.9

February - 69 - 67.8 - 62 - 78 - 45 - 41 - 27 - 98.8

March - 67 - 66.4 - 61 - 72 - 41 - 37 - 26 - 88.0

April - 63 - 64.3 - 59 - 80 - 38 - 36 - 27 - 82.2

May - 60 - 62.1 - 54 - 73 - 37 - 34 - 26 - 82.0

June - 59 - 60.0 - 52 - 71 - 34 - 36 - 27 - 78.1

July - 58 - 58.3 - 51 - 67 - 32 - 27 - 27 - 79.2

August - 60 - 58.8 - 51 - 66 - 31 - 29 - 30 - 73.5

September - 66 - 60.3 - 54 - 70 - 33 - 32 - 30 - 84.0

October - 66 - 61.1 - 57 - 70 - 33 - 32 - 29 - 84.4

The measures and policies which have procured this turn toward recovery should be continued
until the depression is passed, and then the emergency agencies should be promptly liquidated.
The expansion of credit facilities by the Federal Reserve System and the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation has been of incalculable value. The loans of the latter for reproductive works,
and to railways for the creation of employment; its support of the credit structure through
loans to banks, insurance companies, railways, building and loan associations, and to agriculture
has protected the savings and insurance policies of millions of our citizens and has relieved
millions of borrowers from duress; they have enabled industry and business to function and
expand. The assistance given to Farm Loan Banks, the establishment of the Home Loan Banks and
Agricultural Credit Associations--all in their various ramifications have placed large sums
of money at the disposal of the people in protection and aid. Beyond this, the extensive organization
of the country in voluntary action has produced profound results.

The following table indicates direct expenditures of the Federal Government in aid to unemployment,
agriculture, and financial relief over the past four years. The sums applied to financial relief
multiply themselves many fold, being in considerable measure the initial capital supplied to
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, Farm Loan Banks, etc., which will be recovered to the
Treasury.

- Public works (1) - Agricultural relief and financial loans

Fiscal year ending June 30 - -

1930 - $410,420,000 - $156,100,000

1931 - 574,870,000 - 196,700,000

1932 - 655,880,000 - 772,700,000

1933 - 717,260,000 - 52,000,000 -

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 3, 1934

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Senators and Representatives in Congress:

I come before you at the opening of the Regular Session of the 73d Congress, not to make requests
for special or detailed items of legislation; I come, rather, to counsel with you, who, like
myself, have been selected to carry out a mandate of the whole people, in order that without
partisanship you and I may cooperate to continue the restoration of our national wellbeing
and, equally important, to build on the ruins of the past a new structure designed better to
meet the present problems of modern civilization.

Such a structure includes not only the relations of industry and agriculture and finance to
each other but also the effect which all of these three have on our individual citizens and
on the whole people as a Nation.

Now that we are definitely in the process of recovery, lines have been rightly drawn between
those to whom this recovery means a return to old methods--and the number of these people is
small--and those for whom recovery means a reform of many old methods, a permanent readjustment
of many of our ways of thinking and therefore of many of our social and economic arrangements.
. . . .

Civilization cannot go back; civilization must not stand still. We have undertaken new methods.
It is our task to perfect, to improve, to alter when necessary, but in all cases to go forward.
To consolidate what we are doing, to make our economic and social structure capable of dealing
with modern life is the joint task of the legislative, the judicial, and the executive branches
of the national Government.

Without regard to party, the overwhelming majority of our people seek a greater opportunity
for humanity to prosper and find happiness. They recognize that human welfare has not increased
and does not increase through mere materialism and luxury, but that it does progress through
integrity, unselfishness, responsibility and justice.

In the past few months, as a result of our action, we have demanded of many citizens that they
surrender certain licenses to do as they please in their business relationships; but we have
asked this in exchange for the protection which the State can give against exploitation by
their fellow men or by combinations of their fellow men.

I congratulate this Congress upon the courage, the earnestness and the efficiency with which
you met the crisis at the Special Session. It was your fine understanding of the national problem
that furnished the example which the country has so splendidly followed. I venture to say that
the task confronting the First Congress of 1789 was no greater than your own.

I shall not attempt to set forth either the many phases of the crisis which we experienced
last March, or the many measures which you and I undertook during the Special Session that
we might initiate recovery and reform.

It is sufficient that I should speak in broad terms of the results of our common counsel. The
credit of the Government has been fortified by drastic reduction in the cost of its permanent
agencies through the Economy Act.

With the twofold purpose of strengthening the whole financial structure and of arriving eventually
at a medium of exchange which over the years will have less variable purchasing and debt paying
power for our people than that of the past, I have used the authority granted me to purchase
all American-produced gold and silver and to buy additional gold in the world markets. Careful
investigation and constant study prove that in the matter of foreign exchange rates certain
of our sister Nations find themselves so handicapped by internal and other conditions that
they feel unable at this time to enter into stabilization discussion based on permanent and
world-wide objectives.

The overwhelming majority of the banks, both national and State, which reopened last spring,
are in sound condition and have been brought within the protection of Federal insurance. In
the case of those banks which were not permitted to reopen, nearly six hundred million dollars
of frozen deposits are being restored to the depositors through the assistance of the national
Government.

We have made great strides toward the objectives of the National Industrial Recovery Act, for
not only have several millions of our unemployed been restored to work, but industry is organizing
itself with a greater understanding that reasonable profits can be earned while at the same
time protection can be assured to guarantee to labor adequate pay and proper conditions of
work. Child labor is abolished. Uniform standards of hours and wages apply today to 95 percent
of industrial employment within the field of the National Industrial Recovery Act. We seek
the definite end of preventing combinations in furtherance of monopoly and in restraint of
trade, while at the same time we seek to prevent ruinous rivalries within industrial groups
which in many cases resemble the gang wars of the underworld and in which the real victim in
every case is the public itself.

Under the authority of this Congress, we have brought the component parts of each industry
together around a common table, just as we have brought problems affecting labor to a common
meeting ground. Though the machinery, hurriedly devised, may need readjustment from time to
time, nevertheless I think you will agree with me that we have created a permanent feature
of our modernized industrial structure and that it will continue under the supervision but
not the arbitrary dictation of Government itself.

You recognized last spring that the most serious part of the debt burden affected those who
stood in danger of losing their farms and their homes. I am glad to tell you that refinancing
in both of these cases is proceeding with good success and in all probability within the financial
limits set by the Congress.

But agriculture had suffered from more than its debts. Actual experience with the operation
of the Agricultural Adjustment Act leads to my belief that thus far the experiment of seeking
a balance between production and consumption is succeeding and has made progress entirely in
line with reasonable expectations toward the restoration of farm prices to parity. I continue
in my conviction that industrial progress and prosperity can only be attained by bringing the
purchasing power of that portion of our population which in one form or another is dependent
upon agriculture up to a level which will restore a proper balance between every section of
the country and between every form of work.

In this field, through carefully planned flood control, power development and land-use policies
in the Tennessee Valley and in other, great watersheds, we are seeking the elimination of waste,
the removal of poor lands from agriculture and the encouragement of small local industries,
thus furthering this principle of a better balanced national life. We recognize the great ultimate
cost of the application of this rounded policy to every part off the Union. Today we are creating
heavy obligations to start the work because of the great unemployment needs of the moment.
I look forward, however, to the time in the not distant future, when annual appropriations,
wholly covered by current revenue, will enable the work to proceed under a national plan. Such
a national plan will, in a generation or two, return many times the money spent on it; more
important, it will eliminate the use of inefficient tools, conserve and increase natural resources,
prevent waste, and enable millions of our people to take better advantage of the opportunities
which God has given our country.

I cannot, unfortunately, present to you a picture of complete optimism regarding world affairs.

The delegation representing the United States has worked in close cooperation with the other
American Republics assembled at Montevideo to make that conference an outstanding success.
We have, I hope, made it clear to our neighbors that we seek with them future avoidance of
territorial expansion and of interference by one Nation in the internal affairs of another.
Furthermore, all of us are seeking the restoration of commerce in ways which will preclude
the building up of large favorable trade balances by any one Nation at the expense of trade
debits on the part of other Nations.

In other parts of the world, however, fear of immediate or future aggression and with it the
spending of vast sums on armament and the continued building up of defensive trade barriers
prevent any great progress in peace or trade agreements. I have made it clear that the United
States cannot take part in political arrangements in Europe but that we stand ready to cooperate
at any time in practicable measures on a world basis looking to immediate reduction of armaments
and the lowering of the barriers against commerce.

I expect to report to you later in regard to debts owed the Government and people of this country
by the Governments and peoples of other countries. Several Nations, acknowledging the debt,
have paid in small part; other Nations have failed to pay. One Nation--Finland--has paid the
installments due this country in full.

Returning to home problems, we have been shocked by many notorious examples of injuries done
our citizens by persons or groups who have been living off their neighbors by the use of methods
either unethical or criminal.

In the first category--a field which does not involve violations of the letter of our laws--practices
have been brought to light which have shocked those who believed that we were in the past generation
raising the ethical standards of business. They call for stringent preventive or regulatory
measures. I am speaking of those individuals who have evaded the spirit and purpose of our
tax laws, of those high officials of banks or corporations who have grown rich at the expense
of their stockholders or the public, of those reckless speculators with their own or other
people's money whose operations have injured the values of the farmers' crops and the savings
of the poor.

In the other category, crimes of organized banditry, coldblooded shooting, lynching and kidnapping
have threatened our security.

These violations of ethics and these violations of law call on the strong arm of Government
for their immediate suppression; they call also on the country for an aroused public opinion.

The adoption of the Twenty-first Amendment should give material aid to the elimination of those
new forms of crime which came from the illegal traffic in liquor.

I shall continue to regard it as my duty to use whatever means may be necessary to supplement
State, local and private agencies for the relief of suffering caused by unemployment. With
respect to this question, I have recognized the dangers inherent in the direct giving of relief
and have sought the means to provide not mere relief, but the opportunity for useful and remunerative
work. We shall, in the process of recovery, seek to move as rapidly as possible from direct
relief to publicly supported work and from that to the rapid restoration of private employment.

It is to the eternal credit of the American people that this tremendous readjustment of our
national life is being accomplished peacefully, without serious dislocation, with only a minimum
of injustice and with a great, willing spirit of cooperation throughout the country.

Disorder is not an American habit. Self-help and self-control are the essence of the American
tradition--not of necessity the form of that tradition, but its spirit. The program itself
comes from the American people.

It is an integrated program, national in scope. Viewed in the large, it is designed to save
from destruction and to keep for the future the genuinely important values created by modern
society. The vicious and wasteful parts of that society we could not save if we wished; they
have chosen the way of self-destruction. We would save useful mechanical invention, machine
production, industrial efficiency, modern means of communication, broad education. We would
save and encourage the slowly growing impulse among consumers to enter the industrial market
place equipped with sufficient organization to insist upon fair prices and honest sales.

But the unnecessary expansion of industrial plants, the waste of natural resources, the exploitation
of the consumers of natural monopolies, the accumulation of stagnant surpluses, child labor,
and the ruthless exploitation of all labor, the encouragement of speculation with other people's
money, these were consumed in the fires that they themselves kindled; we must make sure that
as we reconstruct our life there be no soil in which such weeds can grow again.

We have plowed the furrow and planted the good seed; the hard beginning is over. If we would
reap the full harvest, we must cultivate the soil where this good seed is sprouting and the
plant is reaching up to mature growth.

A final personal word. I know that each of you will appreciate that. I am speaking no mere
politeness when I assure you how much I value the fine relationship that we have shared during
these months of hard and incessant work. Out of these friendly contacts we are, fortunately,
building a strong and permanent tie between the legislative and executive branches of the Government.
The letter of the Constitution wisely declared a separation, but the impulse of common purpose
declares a union. In this spirit we join once more in serving the American people.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 7, 1943

Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Seventy-eighth Congress:

This Seventy-eighth Congress assembles in one of the great moments in the history of the Nation.
The past year was perhaps the most crucial for modern civilization; the coming year will be
filled with violent conflicts-- yet with high promise of better things.

We must appraise the events of 1942 according to their relative importance; we must exercise
a sense of proportion.

First in importance in the American scene has been the inspiring proof of the great qualities
of our fighting men. They have demonstrated these qualities in adversity as well as in victory.
As long as our flag flies over this Capitol, Americans will honor the soldiers, sailors, and
marines who fought our first battles of this war against overwhelming odds the heroes, living
and dead, of Wake and Bataan and Guadalcanal, of the Java Sea and Midway and the North Atlantic
convoys. Their unconquerable spirit will live forever.

By far the largest and most important developments in the whole world-wide strategic picture
of 1942 were the events of the long fronts in Russia: first, the implacable defense of Stalingrad;
and, second, the offensives by the Russian armies at various points that started in the latter
part of November and which still roll on with great force and effectiveness.

The other major events of the year were: the series of Japanese advances in the Philippines,
the East Indies, Malaya, and Burma; the stopping of that Japanese advance in the mid-Pacific,
the South Pacific, and the Indian Oceans; the successful defense of the Near East by the British
counterattack through Egypt and Libya; the American-British occupation of North Africa. Of
continuing importance in the year 1942 were the unending and bitterly contested battles of
the convoy routes, and the gradual passing of air superiority from the Axis to the United Nations.

The Axis powers knew that they must win the war in 1942--or eventually lose everything. I do
not need to tell you that our enemies did not win the war in 1942.

In the Pacific area, our most important victory in 1942 was the air and naval battle off Midway
Island. That action is historically important because it secured for our use communication
lines stretching thousands of miles in every direction. In placing this emphasis on the Battle
of Midway, I am not unmindful of other successful actions in the Pacific, in the air and on
land and afloat--especially those on the Coral Sea and New Guinea and in the Solomon Islands.
But these actions were essentially defensive. They were part of the delaying strategy that
characterized this phase of the war.

During this period we inflicted steady losses upon the enemy--great losses of Japanese planes
and naval vessels, transports and cargo ships. As early as one year ago, we set as a primary
task in the war of the Pacific a day-by-day and week-by-week and month-by-month destruction
of more Japanese war materials than Japanese industry could replace. Most certainly, that task
has been and is being performed by our fighting ships and planes. And a large part of this
task has been accomplished by the gallant crews of our American submarines who strike on the
other side of the Pacific at Japanese ships--right up at the very mouth of the harbor of Yokohama.

We know that as each day goes by, Japanese strength in ships and planes is going down and down,
and American strength in ships and planes is going up and up. And so I sometimes feel that
the eventual outcome can now be put on a mathematical basis. That will become evident to the
Japanese people themselves when we strike at their own home islands, and bomb them constantly
from the air.

And in the attacks against Japan, we shall be joined with the heroic people of China--that
great people whose ideals of peace are so closely akin to our own. Even today we are flying
as much lend-lease material into China as ever traversed the Burma Road, flying it over mountains
17,000 feet high, flying blind through sleet and snow. We shall overcome all the formidable
obstacles, and get the battle equipment into China to shatter the power of our common enemy.
From this war, China will realize the security, the prosperity and the dignity, which Japan
has sought so ruthlessly to destroy.

The period of our defensive attrition in the Pacific is drawing to a close. Now our aim is
to force the Japanese to fight. Last year, we stopped them. This year, we intend to advance.

Turning now to the European theater of war, during this past year it was clear that our first
task was to lessen the concentrated pressure on the Russian front by compelling Germany to
divert part of her manpower and equipment to another theater of war. After months of secret
planning and preparation in the utmost detail, an enormous amphibious expedition was embarked
for French North Africa from the United States and the United Kingdom in literally hundreds
of ships. It reached its objectives with very small losses, and has already produced an important
effect upon the whole situation of the war. It has opened to attack what Mr. Churchill well
described as "the under-belly of the Axis," and it has removed the always dangerous threat
of an Axis attack through West Africa against the South Atlantic Ocean and the continent of
South America itself.

The well-timed and splendidly executed offensive from Egypt by the British Eighth Army was
a part of the same major strategy of the United Nations.

Great rains and appalling mud and very limited communications have delayed the final battles
of Tunisia. The Axis is reinforcing its strong positions. But I am confident that though the
fighting will be tough, when the final Allied assault is made, the last vestige of Axis power
will be driven from the whole of the south shores of the Mediterranean.

Any review of the year 1942 must emphasize the magnitude and the diversity of the military
activities in which this Nation has become engaged. As I speak to you, approximately one and
a half million of our soldiers, sailors, marines, and fliers are in service outside of our
continental limits, all through the world. Our merchant seamen, in addition, are carrying supplies
to them and to our allies over every sea lane.

Few Americans realize the amazing growth of our air strength, though I am sure our enemy does.
Day in and day out our forces are bombing the enemy and meeting him in combat on many different
fronts in every part of the world. And for those who question the quality of our aircraft and
the ability of our fliers, I point to the fact that, in Africa, we are shooting down two enemy
planes to every one we lose, and in the Pacific and the Southwest Pacific we are shooting them
down four to one.

We pay great tribute--the tribute of the United States of America--to the fighting men of Russia
and China and Britain and the various members of the British Commonwealth--the millions of
men who through the years of this war have fought our common enemies, and have denied to them
the world conquest which they sought.

We pay tribute to the soldiers and fliers and seamen of others of the United Nations whose
countries have been overrun by Axis hordes.

As a result of the Allied occupation of North Africa, powerful units of the French Army and
Navy are going into action. They are in action with the United Nations forces. We welcome them
as allies and as friends. They join with those Frenchmen who, since the dark days of June,
1940, have been fighting valiantly for the liberation of their stricken country.

We pay tribute to the fighting leaders of our allies, to Winston Churchill, to Joseph Stalin,
and to the Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. Yes, there is a very great unanimity between the
leaders of the United Nations. This unity is effective in planning and carrying out the major
strategy of this war and in building up and in maintaining the lines of supplies.

I cannot prophesy. I cannot tell you when or where the United Nations are going to strike next
in Europe. But we are going to strike--and strike hard. I cannot tell you whether we are going
to hit them in Norway, or through the Low Countries, or in France, or through Sardinia or Sicily,
or through the Balkans, or through Poland--or at several points simultaneously. But I can tell
you that no matter where and when we strike by land, we and the British and the Russians will
hit them from the air heavily and relentlessly. Day in and day out we shall heap tons upon
tons of high explosives on their war factories and utilities and seaports.

Hitler and Mussolini will understand now the enormity of their miscalculations--that the Nazis
would always have the advantage of superior air power as they did when they bombed Warsaw,
and Rotterdam, and London and Coventry. That superiority has gone--forever.

Yes, the Nazis and the Fascists have asked for it--and they are going to get it.

Our forward progress in this war has depended upon our progress on the production front.

There has been criticism of the management and conduct of our war production. Much of this
self-criticism has had a healthy effect. It has spurred us on. It has reflected a normal American
impatience to get on with the job. We are the kind of people who are never quite satisfied
with anything short of miracles.

But there has been some criticism based on guesswork and even on malicious falsification of
fact. Such criticism creates doubts and creates fears, and weakens our total effort.

I do not wish to suggest that we should be completely satisfied with our production progress
today, or next month, or ever. But I can report to you with genuine pride on what has been
accomplished in 1942.

A year ago we set certain production goals for 1942 and for 1943. Some people, including some
experts, thought that we had pulled some big figures out of a hat just to frighten the Axis.
But we had confidence in the ability of our people to establish new records. And that confidence
has been justified.

Of course, we realized that some production objectives would have to be changed--some of them
adjusted upward, and others downward; some items would be taken out of the program altogether,
and others added. This was inevitable as we gained battle experience, and as technological
improvements were made.

Our 1942 airplane production and tank production fell short, numerically--stress the word numerically
of the goals set a year ago. Nevertheless, we have plenty of reason to be proud of our record
for 1942. We produced 48,000 military planes--more than the airplane production of Germany,
Italy, and Japan put together. Last month, in December, we produced 5,500 military planes and
the rate is rapidly rising. Furthermore, we must remember that as each month passes by, the
averages of our types weigh more, take more man-hours to make, and have more striking power.

In tank production, we revised our schedule--and for good and sufficient reasons. As a result
of hard experience in battle, we have diverted a portion of our tank-producing capacity to
a stepped-up production of new, deadly field weapons, especially self-propelled artillery.

Here are some other production figures:

In 1942, we produced 56,000 combat vehicles, such as tanks and self-propelled artillery.

In 1942, we produced 670,000 machine guns, six times greater than our production in 1941 and
three times greater than our total production during the year and a half of our participation
in the first World War.

We produced 21,000 anti-tank guns, six times greater than our 1941 production.

We produced ten and a quarter billion rounds of small-arms ammunition, five times greater than
our 1941 production and three times greater than our total production in the first World War.

We produced 181 million rounds of artillery ammunition, twelve times greater than our 1941
production and ten times greater than our total production in the first World War.

I think the arsenal of democracy is making good.

These facts and figures that I have given will give no great aid and comfort to the enemy.
On the contrary, I can imagine that they will give him considerable discomfort. I suspect that
Hitler and Tojo will find it difficult to explain to the German and Japanese people just why
it is that "decadent, inefficient democracy" can produce such phenomenal quantities of weapons
and munitions--and fighting men.

We have given the lie to certain misconceptions--which is an extremely polite word--especially
the one which holds that the various blocs or groups within a free country cannot forego their
political and economic differences in time of crisis and work together toward a common goal.

While we have been achieving this miracle of production, during the past year our armed forces
have grown from a little over 2,000,000 to 7,000,000. In other words, we have withdrawn from
the labor force and the farms some 5,000,000 of our younger workers. And in spite of this,
our farmers have contributed their share to the common effort by producing the greatest quantity
of food ever made available during a single year in all our history.

I wonder is there any person among us so simple as to believe that all this could have been
done without creating some dislocations in our normal national life, some inconveniences, and
even some hardships?

Who can have hoped to have done this without burdensome Government regulations which are a
nuisance to everyone--including those who have the thankless task of administering them?

We all know that there have been mistakes--mistakes due to the inevitable process of trial
and error inherent in doing big things for the first time. We all know that there have been
too many complicated forms and questionnaires. I know about that. I have had to fill some of
them out myself.

But we are determined to see to it that our supplies of food and other essential civilian goods
are distributed on a fair and just basis--to rich and poor, management and labor, farmer and
city dweller alike. We are determined to keep the cost of living at a stable level. All this
has required much information. These forms and questionnaires represent an honest and sincere
attempt by honest and sincere officials to obtain this information.

We have learned by the mistakes that we have made.

Our experience will enable us during the coming year to improve the necessary mechanisms of
wartime economic controls, and to simplify administrative procedures. But we do not intend
to leave things so lax that loopholes will be left for cheaters, for chiselers, or for the
manipulators of the black market.

Of course, there have been disturbances and inconveniences--and even hardships. And there will
be many, many more before we finally win. Yes, 1943 will not be an easy year for us on the
home front. We shall feel in many ways in our daily lives the sharp pinch of total war.

Fortunately, there are only a few Americans who place appetite above patriotism. The overwhelming
majority realize that the food we send abroad is for essential military purposes, for our own
and Allied fighting forces, and for necessary help in areas that we occupy.

We Americans intend to do this great job together. In our common labors we must build and fortify
the very foundation of national unity--confidence in one another.

It is often amusing, and it is sometimes politically profitable, to picture the City of Washington
as a madhouse, with the Congress and the Administration disrupted with confusion and indecision
and general incompetence.

However--what matters most in war is results. And the one pertinent fact is that after only
a few years of preparation and only one year of warfare, we are able to engage, spiritually
as well as physically, in the total waging of a total war.

Washington may be a madhouse--but only in the sense that it is the Capital City of a Nation
which is fighting mad. And I think that Berlin and Rome and Tokyo, which had such contempt
for the obsolete methods of democracy, would now gladly use all they could get of that same
brand of madness.

And we must not forget that our achievements in production have been relatively no greater
than those of the Russians and the British and the Chinese who have developed their own war
industries under the incredible difficulties of battle conditions. They have had to continue
work through bombings and blackouts. And they have never quit.

We Americans are in good, brave company in this war, and we are playing our own, honorable
part in the vast common effort.

As spokesmen for the United States Government, you and I take off our hats to those responsible
for our American production--to the owners, managers, and supervisors, to the draftsmen and
the engineers, and to the workers-- men and women--in factories and arsenals and shipyards
and mines and mills and forests--and railroads and on highways.

We take off our hats to the farmers who have faced an unprecedented task of feeding not only
a great Nation but a great part of the world.

We take off our hats to all the loyal, anonymous, untiring men and women who have worked in
private employment and in Government and who have endured rationing and other stringencies
with good humor and good will.

Yes, we take off our hats to all Americans who have contributed so magnificently to our common
cause.

I have sought to emphasize a sense of proportion in this review of the events of the war and
the needs of the war.

We should never forget the things we are fighting for. But, at this critical period of the
war, we should confine ourselves to the larger objectives and not get bogged down in argument
over methods and details.

We, and all the United Nations, want a decent peace and a durable peace. In the years between
the end of the first World War and the beginning of the second World War, we were not living
under a decent or a durable peace.

I have reason to know that our boys at the front are concerned with two broad aims beyond the
winning of the war; and their thinking and their opinion coincide with what most Americans
here back home are mulling over. They know, and we know, that it would be inconceivable--it
would, indeed, be sacrilegious--if this Nation and the world did not attain some real, lasting
good out of all these efforts and sufferings and bloodshed and death.

The men in our armed forces want a lasting peace, and, equally, they want permanent employment
for themselves, their families, and their neighbors when they are mustered out at the end of
the war.

Two years ago I spoke in my Annual Message of four freedoms. The blessings of two of them--freedom
of speech and freedom of religion--are an essential part of the very life of this Nation; and
we hope that these blessings will be granted to all men everywhere.

'The people at home, and the people at the front, are wondering a little about the third freedom--freedom
from want. To them it means that when they are mustered out, when war production is converted
to the economy of peace, they will have the right to expect full employment--full employment
for themselves and for all able-bodied men and women in America who want to work.

They expect the opportunity to work, to run their farms, their stores, to earn decent wages.
They are eager to face the risks inherent in our system of free enterprise.

They do not want a postwar America which suffers from undernourishment or slums--or the dole.
They want no get-rich-quick era of bogus "prosperity" which will end for them in selling apples
on a street corner, as happened after the bursting of the boom in 1929.

When you talk with our young men and our young women, you will find they want to work for themselves
and for their families; they consider that they have the right to work; and they know that
after the last war their fathers did not gain that right.

When you talk with our young men and women, you will find that with the opportunity for employment
they want assurance against the evils of all major economic hazards--assurance that will extend
from the cradle to the grave. And this great Government can and must provide this assurance.

I have been told that this is no time to speak of a better America after the war. I am told
it is a grave error on my part.

I dissent.

And if the security of the individual citizen, or the family, should become a subject of national
debate, the country knows where I stand.

I say this now to this Seventy-eighth Congress, because it is wholly possible that freedom
from want--the right of employment, the right of assurance against life's hazards--will loom
very large as a task of America during the coming two years.

I trust it will not be regarded as an issue--but rather as a task for all of us to study sympathetically,
to work out with a constant regard for the attainment of the objective, with fairness to all
and with injustice to none.

In this war of survival we must keep before our minds not only the evil things we fight against
but the good things we are fighting for. We fight to retain a great past--and we fight to gain
a greater future.

Let us remember, too, that economic safety for the America of the future is threatened unless
a greater economic stability comes to the rest of the world. We cannot make America an island
in either a military or an economic sense. Hitlerism, like any other form of crime or disease,
can grow from the evil seeds of economic as well as military feudalism.

Victory in this war is the first and greatest goal before us. Victory in the peace is the next.
That means striving toward the enlargement of the security of man here and throughout the world--and,
finally, striving for the fourth freedom--freedom from fear.

It is of little account for any of us to talk of essential human needs, of attaining security,
if we run the risk of another World War in ten or twenty or fifty years. That is just plain
common sense. Wars grow in size, in death and destruction, and in the inevitability of engulfing
all Nations, in inverse ratio to the shrinking size of the world as a result of the conquest
of the air. I shudder to think of what will happen to humanity, including ourselves, if this
war ends in an inconclusive peace, and another war breaks out when the babies of today have
grown to fighting age.

Every normal American prays that neither he nor his sons nor his grandsons will be compelled
to go through this horror again.

Undoubtedly a few Americans, even now, think that this Nation can end this war comfortably
and then climb back into an American hole and pull the hole in after them.

But we have learned that we can never dig a hole so deep that it would be safe against predatory
animals. We have also learned that if we do not pull the fangs of the predatory animals of
this world, they will multiply and grow in strength--and they will be at our throats again
once more in a short generation.

Most Americans realize more clearly than ever before that modern war equipment in the hands
of aggressor Nations can bring danger overnight to our own national existence or to that of
any other Nation--or island--or continent.

It is clear to us that if Germany and Italy and Japan--or any one of them-- remain armed at
the end of this war, or are permitted to rearm, they will again, and inevitably, embark upon
an ambitious career of world conquest. They must be disarmed and kept disarmed, and they must
abandon the philosophy, and the teaching of that philosophy, which has brought so much suffering
to the world.

After the first World War we tried to achieve a formula for permanent peace, based on a magnificent
idealism. We failed. But, by our failure, we have learned that we cannot maintain peace at
this stage of human development by good intentions alone.

Today the United Nations are the mightiest military coalition in all history. They represent
an overwhelming majority of the population of the world. Bound together in solemn agreement
that they themselves will not commit acts of aggression or conquest against any of their neighbors,
the United Nations can and must remain united for the maintenance of peace by preventing any
attempt to rearm in Germany, in Japan, in Italy, or in any other Nation which seeks to violate
the Tenth Commandment--"Thou shalt not covet."

There are cynics, there are skeptics who say it cannot be done. The American people and all
the freedom-loving peoples of this earth are now demanding that it must be done. And the will
of these people shall prevail.

The very philosophy of the Axis powers is based on a profound contempt for the human race.
If, in the formation of our future policy, we were guided by the same cynical contempt, then
we should be surrendering to the philosophy of our enemies, and our victory would turn to defeat.

The issue of this war is the basic issue between those who believe in mankind and those who
do not--the ancient issue between those who put their faith in the people and those who put
their faith in dictators and tyrants. There have always been those who did not believe in the
people, who attempted to block their forward movement across history, to force them back to
servility and suffering and silence.

The people have now gathered their strength. They are moving forward in their might and power--and
no force, no combination of forces, no trickery, deceit, or violence, can stop them now. They
see before them the hope of the world--a decent, secure, peaceful life for men everywhere.

I do not prophesy when this war will end.

But I do believe that this year of 1943 will give to the United Nations a very substantial
advance along the roads that lead to Berlin and Rome and Tokyo.

I tell you it is within the realm of possibility that this Seventy-eighth Congress may have
the historic privilege of helping greatly to save the world from future fear.

Therefore, let us all have confidence, let us redouble our efforts.

A tremendous, costly, long-enduring task in peace as well as in war is still ahead of us.

But, as we face that continuing task, we may know that the state of this Nation is good--the
heart of this Nation is sound--the spirit of this Nation is strong--the faith of this Nation
is eternal.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 11, 1944

To the Congress:

This Nation in the past two years has become an active partner in the world's greatest war
against human slavery.

We have joined with like-minded people in order to defend ourselves in a world that has been
gravely threatened with gangster rule.

But I do not think that any of us Americans can be content with mere survival. Sacrifices that
we and our allies are making impose upon us all a sacred obligation to see to it that out of
this war we and our children will gain something better than mere survival.

We are united in determination that this war shall not be followed by another interim which
leads to new disaster--that we shall not repeat the tragic errors of ostrich isolationism--that
we shall not repeat the excesses of the wild twenties when this Nation went for a joy ride
on a roller coaster which ended in a tragic crash.

When Mr. Hull went to Moscow in October, and when I went to Cairo and Teheran in November,
we knew that we were in agreement with our allies in our common determination to fight and
win this war. But there were many vital questions concerning the future peace, and they were
discussed in an atmosphere of complete candor and harmony.

In the last war such discussions, such meetings, did not even begin until the shooting had
stopped and the delegates began to assemble at the peace table. There had been no previous
opportunities for man-to-man discussions which lead to meetings of minds. The result was a
peace which was not a peace.

That was a mistake which we are not repeating in this war.

And right here I want to address a word or two to some suspicious souls who are fearful that
Mr. Hull or I have made "commitments" for the future which might pledge this Nation to secret
treaties, or to enacting the role of Santa Claus.

To such suspicious souls--using a polite terminology--I wish to say that Mr. Churchill, and
Marshal Stalin, and Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek are all thoroughly conversant with the provisions
of our Constitution. And so is Mr. Hull. And so am I.

Of course we made some commitments. We most certainly committed ourselves to very large and
very specific military plans which require the use of all Allied forces to bring about the
defeat of our enemies at the earliest possible time.

But there were no secret treaties or political or financial commitments.

The one supreme objective for the future, which we discussed for each Nation individually,
and for all the United Nations, can be summed up in one word: Security.

And that means not only physical security which provides safety from attacks by aggressors.
It means also economic security, social security, moral security--in a family of Nations.

In the plain down-to-earth talks that I had with the Generalissimo and Marshal Stalin and Prime
Minister Churchill, it was abundantly clear that they are all most deeply interested in the
resumption of peaceful progress by their own peoples--progress toward a better life. All our
allies want freedom to develop their lands and resources, to build up industry, to increase
education and individual opportunity, and to raise standards of living.

All our allies have learned by bitter experience that real development will not be possible
if they are to be diverted from their purpose by repeated wars--or even threats of war.

China and Russia are truly united with Britain and America in recognition of this essential fact:

The best interests of each Nation, large and small, demand that all freedom-loving Nations
shall join together in a just and durable system of peace. In the present world situation,
evidenced by the actions of Germany, Italy, and Japan, unquestioned military control over disturbers
of the peace is as necessary among Nations as it is among citizens in a community. And an equally
basic essential to peace is a decent standard of living for all individual men and women and
children in all Nations. Freedom from fear is eternally linked with freedom from want.

There are people who burrow through our Nation like unseeing moles, and attempt to spread the
suspicion that if other Nations are encouraged to raise their standards of living, our own
American standard of living must of necessity be depressed.

The fact is the very contrary. It has been shown time and again that if the standard of living
of any country goes up, so does its purchasing power-- and that such a rise encourages a better
standard of living in neighboring countries with whom it trades. That is just plain common
sense--and it is the kind of plain common sense that provided the basis for our discussions
at Moscow, Cairo, and Teheran.

Returning from my journeyings, I must confess to a sense of "let-down" when I found many evidences
of faulty perspective here in Washington. The faulty perspective consists in overemphasizing
lesser problems and thereby underemphasizing the first and greatest problem.

The overwhelming majority of our people have met the demands of this war with magnificent courage
and understanding. They have accepted inconveniences; they have accepted hardships; they have
accepted tragic sacrifices. And they are ready and eager to make whatever further contributions
are needed to win the war as quickly as possible--if only they are given the chance to know
what is required of them.

However, while the majority goes on about its great work without complaint, a noisy minority
maintains an uproar of demands for special favors for special groups. There are pests who swarm
through the lobbies of the Congress and the cocktail bars of Washington, representing these
special groups as opposed to the basic interests of the Nation as a whole. They have come to
look upon the war primarily as a chance to make profits for themselves at the expense of their
neighbors--profits in money or in terms of political or social preferment.

Such selfish agitation can be highly dangerous in wartime. It creates confusion. It damages
morale. It hampers our national effort. It muddies the waters and therefore prolongs the war.

If we analyze American history impartially, we cannot escape the fact that in our past we have
not always forgotten individual and selfish and partisan interests in time of war--we have
not always been united in purpose and direction. We cannot overlook the serious dissensions
and the lack of unity in our war of the Revolution, in our War of 1812, or in our War Between
the States, when the survival of the Union itself was at stake.

In the first World War we came closer to national unity than in any previous war. But that
war lasted only a year and a half, and increasing signs of disunity began to appear during
the final months of the conflict.

In this war, we have been compelled to learn how interdependent upon each other are all groups
and sections of the population of America.

Increased food costs, for example, will bring new demands for wage increases from all war workers,
which will in turn raise all prices of all things including those things which the farmers
themselves have to buy. Increased wages or prices will each in turn produce the same results.
They all have a particularly disastrous result on all fixed income groups.

And I hope you will remember that all of us in this Government represent the fixed income group
just as much as we represent business owners, workers, and farmers. This group of fixed income
people includes: teachers, clergy, policemen, firemen, widows and minors on fixed incomes,
wives and dependents of our soldiers and sailors, and old-age pensioners. They and their families
add up to one-quarter of our one hundred and thirty million people. They have few or no high
pressure representatives at the Capitol. In a period of gross inflation they would be the worst
sufferers.

If ever there was a time to subordinate individual or group selfishness to the national good,
that time is now. Disunity at home--bickerings, self-seeking partisanship, stoppages of work,
inflation, business as usual, politics as usual, luxury as usual these are the influences which
can undermine the morale of the brave men ready to die at the front for us here.

Those who are doing most of the complaining are not deliberately striving to sabotage the national
war effort. They are laboring under the delusion that the time is past when we must make prodigious
sacrifices--that the war is already won and we can begin to slacken off. But the dangerous
folly of that point of view can be measured by the distance that separates our troops from
their ultimate objectives in Berlin and Tokyo--and by the sum of all the perils that lie along
the way.

Overconfidence and complacency are among our deadliest enemies. Last spring--after notable
victories at Stalingrad and in Tunisia and against the U-boats on the high seas--overconfidence
became so pronounced that war production fell off. In two months, June and July, 1943, more
than a thousand airplanes that could have been made and should have been made were not made.
Those who failed to make them were not on strike. They were merely saying, "The war's in the
bag--so let's relax."

That attitude on the part of anyone--Government or management or labor--can lengthen this war.
It can kill American boys.

Let us remember the lessons of 1918. In the summer of that year the tide turned in favor of
the allies. But this Government did not relax. In fact, our national effort was stepped up.
In August, 1918, the draft age limits were broadened from 21-31 to 18-45. The President called
for "force to the utmost," and his call was heeded. And in November, only three months later,
Germany surrendered.

That is the way to fight and win a war--all out--and not with half-an-eye on the battlefronts
abroad and the other eye-and-a-half on personal, selfish, or political interests here at home.

Therefore, in order to concentrate all our energies and resources on winning the war, and to
maintain a fair and stable economy at home, I recommend that the Congress adopt:

(1) A realistic tax law--which will tax all unreasonable profits, both individual and corporate,
and reduce the ultimate cost of the war to our sons and daughters. The tax bill now under consideration
by the Congress does not begin to meet this test.

(2) A continuation of the law for the renegotiation of war contracts--which will prevent exorbitant
profits and assure fair prices to the Government. For two long years I have pleaded with the
Congress to take undue profits out of war.

(3) A cost of food law--which will enable the Government (a) to place a reasonable floor under
the prices the farmer may expect for his production; and (b) to place a ceiling on the prices
a consumer will have to pay for the food he buys. This should apply to necessities only; and
will require public funds to carry out. It will cost in appropriations about one percent of
the present annual cost of the war.

(4) Early reenactment of the stabilization statute of October, 1942. This expires June 30,
1944, and if it is not extended well in advance, the country might just as well expect price
chaos by summer.

We cannot have stabilization by wishful thinking. We must take positive action to maintain
the integrity of the American dollar.

(5) A national service law--which, for the duration of the war, will prevent strikes, and,
with certain appropriate exceptions, will make available for war production or for any other
essential services every able-bodied adult in this Nation.

These five measures together form a just and equitable whole. I would not recommend a national
service law unless the other laws were passed to keep down the cost of living, to share equitably
the burdens of taxation, to hold the stabilization line, and to prevent undue profits.

The Federal Government already has the basic power to draft capital and property of all kinds
for war purposes on a basis of just compensation.

As you know, I have for three years hesitated to recommend a national service act. Today, however,
I am convinced of its necessity. Although I believe that we and our allies can win the war
without such a measure, I am certain that nothing less than total mobilization of all our resources
of manpower and capital will guarantee an earlier victory, and reduce the toll of suffering
and sorrow and blood.

I have received a joint recommendation for this law from the heads of the War Department, the
Navy Department, and the Maritime Commission. These are the men who bear responsibility for
the procurement of the necessary arms and equipment, and for the successful prosecution of
the war in the field. They say:

"When the very life of the Nation is in peril the responsibility for service is common to all
men and women. In such a time there can be no discrimination between the men and women who
are assigned by the Government to its defense at the battlefront and the men and women assigned
to producing the vital materials essential to successful military operations. A prompt enactment
of a National Service Law would be merely an expression of the universality of this responsibility."

I believe the country will agree that those statements are the solemn truth.

National service is the most democratic way to wage a war. Like selective service for the armed
forces, it rests on the obligation of each citizen to serve his Nation to his utmost where
he is best qualified.

It does not mean reduction in wages. It does not mean loss of retirement and seniority rights
and benefits. It does not mean that any substantial numbers of war workers will be disturbed
in their present jobs. Let these facts be wholly clear.

Experience in other democratic Nations at war--Britain, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand--has
shown that the very existence of national service makes unnecessary the widespread use of compulsory
power. National service has proven to be a unifying moral force based on an equal and comprehensive
legal obligation of all people in a Nation at war.

There are millions of American men and women who are not in this war at all. It is not because
they do not want to be in it. But they want to know where they can best do their share. National
service provides that direction. It will be a means by which every man and woman can find that
inner satisfaction which comes from making the fullest possible contribution to victory.

I know that all civilian war workers will be glad to be able to say many years hence to their
grandchildren: "Yes, I, too, was in service in the great war. I was on duty in an airplane
factory, and I helped make hundreds of fighting planes. The Government told me that in doing
that I was performing my most useful work in the service of my country."

It is argued that we have passed the stage in the war where national service is necessary.
But our soldiers and sailors know that this is not true. We are going forward on a long, rough
road--and, in all journeys, the last miles are the hardest. And it is for that final effort--for
the total defeat of our enemies--that we must mobilize our total resources. The national war
program calls for the employment of more people in 1944 than in 1943.

It is my conviction that the American people will welcome this win-the-war measure which is
based on the eternally just principle of "fair for one, fair for all."

It will give our people at home the assurance that they are standing four-square behind our
soldiers and sailors. And it will give our enemies demoralizing assurance that we mean business--that
we, 130,000,000 Americans, are on the march to Rome, Berlin, and Tokyo.

I hope that the Congress will recognize that, although this is a political year, national service
is an issue which transcends politics. Great power must be used for great purposes.

As to the machinery for this measure, the Congress itself should determine its nature--but
it should be wholly nonpartisan in its make-up.

Our armed forces are valiantly fulfilling their responsibilities to our country and our people.
Now the Congress faces the responsibility for taking those measures which are essential to
national security in this the most decisive phase of the Nation's greatest war.

Several alleged reasons have prevented the enactment of legislation which would preserve for
our soldiers and sailors and marines the fundamental prerogative of citizenship--the right
to vote. No amount of legalistic argument can becloud this issue in the eyes of these ten million
American citizens. Surely the signers of the Constitution did not intend a document which,
even in wartime, would be construed to take away the franchise of any of those who are fighting
to preserve the Constitution itself.

Our soldiers and sailors and marines know that the overwhelming majority of them will be deprived
of the opportunity to vote, if the voting machinery is left exclusively to the States under
existing State laws--and that there is no likelihood of these laws being changed in time to
enable them to vote at the next election. The Army and Navy have reported that it will be impossible
effectively to administer forty-eight different soldier voting laws. It is the duty of the
Congress to remove this unjustifiable discrimination against the men and women in our armed
forces--and to do it as quickly as possible.

It is our duty now to begin to lay the plans and determine the strategy for the winning of
a lasting peace and the establishment of an American standard of living higher than ever before
known. We cannot be content, no matter how high that general standard of living may be, if
some fraction of our people--whether it be one-third or one-fifth or one-tenth--is ill-fed,
ill-clothed, ill housed, and insecure.

This Republic had its beginning, and grew to its present strength, under the protection of
certain inalienable political rights--among them the right of free speech, free press, free
worship, trial by jury, freedom from unreasonable searches and seizures. They were our rights
to life and liberty.

As our Nation has grown in size and stature, however--as our industrial economy expanded--these
political rights proved inadequate to assure us equality in the pursuit of happiness.

We have come to a clear realization of the fact that true individual freedom cannot exist without
economic security and independence. "Necessitous men are not free men." People who are hungry
and out of a job are the stuff of which dictatorships are made.

In our day these economic truths have become accepted as self-evident. We have accepted, so
to speak, a second Bill of Rights under which a new basis of security and prosperity can be
established for all regardless of station, race, or creed.

Among these are:

The right to a useful and remunerative job in the industries or shops or farms or mines of
the Nation;

The right to earn enough to provide adequate food and clothing and recreation;

The right of every farmer to raise and sell his products at a return which will give him and
his family a decent living;

The right of every businessman, large and small, to trade in an atmosphere of freedom from
unfair competition and domination by monopolies at home or abroad;

The right of every family to a decent home;

The right to adequate medical care and the opportunity to achieve and enjoy good health;

The right to adequate protection from the economic fears of old age, sickness, accident, and
unemployment;

The right to a good education.

All of these rights spell security. And after this war is won we must be prepared to move forward,
in the implementation of these rights, to new goals of human happiness and well-being.

America's own rightful place in the world depends in large part upon how fully these and similar
rights have been carried into practice for our citizens. For unless there is security here
at home there cannot be lasting peace in the world.

One of the great American industrialists of our day--a man who has rendered yeoman service
to his country in this crisis--recently emphasized the grave dangers of "rightist reaction"
in this Nation. All clear-thinking businessmen share his concern. Indeed, if such reaction
should develop--if history were to repeat itself and we were to return to the so-called "normalcy"
of the 1920's--then it is certain that even though we shall have conquered our enemies on the
battlefields abroad, we shall have yielded to the spirit of Fascism here at home.

I ask the Congress to explore the means for implementing this economic bill of rights--for
it is definitely the responsibility of the Congress so to do. Many of these problems are already
before committees of the Congress in the form of proposed legislation. I shall from time to
time communicate with the Congress with respect to these and further proposals. In the event
that no adequate program of progress is evolved, I am certain that the Nation will be conscious
of the fact.

Our fighting men abroad--and their families at home--expect such a program and have the right
to insist upon it. It is to their demands that this Government should pay heed rather than
to the whining demands of selfish pressure groups who seek to feather their nests while young
Americans are dying.

The foreign policy that we have been following--the policy that guided us at Moscow, Cairo,
and Teheran--is based on the common sense principle which was best expressed by Benjamin Franklin
on July 4, 1776: "We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately."

I have often said that there are no two fronts for America in this war. There is only one front.
There is one line of unity which extends from the hearts of the people at home to the men of
our attacking forces in our farthest outposts. When we speak of our total effort, we speak
of the factory and the field, and the mine as well as of the battleground--we speak of the
soldier and the civilian, the citizen and his Government.

Each and every one of us has a solemn obligation under God to serve this Nation in its most
critical hour--to keep this Nation great--to make this Nation greater in a better world.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 6, 1945

To the Congress:

In considering the State of the Union, the war and the peace that is to follow are naturally
uppermost in the minds of all of us.

This war must be waged--it is being waged--with the greatest and most persistent intensity.
Everything we are and have is at stake. Everything we are and have will be given. American
men, fighting far from home, have already won victories which the world will never forget.

We have no question of the ultimate victory. We have no question of the cost. Our losses will
be heavy.

We and our allies will go on fighting together to ultimate total victory.

We have seen a year marked, on the whole, by substantial progress toward victory, even though
the year ended with a setback for our arms, when the Germans launched a ferocious counter-attack
into Luxembourg and Belgium with the obvious objective of cutting our line in the center.

Our men have fought with indescribable and unforgettable gallantry under most difficult conditions,
and our German enemies have sustained considerable losses while failing to obtain their objectives.

The high tide of this German effort was reached two days after Christmas. Since then we have
reassumed the offensive, rescued the isolated garrison at Bastogne, and forced a German withdrawal
along the whole line of the salient. The speed with which we recovered from this savage attack
was largely possible because we have one supreme commander in complete control of all the Allied
armies in France. General Eisenhower has faced this period of trial with admirable calm and
resolution and with steadily increasing success. He has my complete confidence.

Further desperate attempts may well be made to break our lines, to slow our progress. We must
never make the mistake of assuming that the Germans are beaten until the last Nazi has surrendered.

And I would express another most serious warning against the poisonous effects of enemy propaganda.

The wedge that the Germans attempted to drive in western Europe was less dangerous in actual
terms of winning the war than the wedges which they are continually attempting to drive between
ourselves and our allies.

Every little rumor which is intended to weaken our faith in our allies is like an actual enemy
agent in our midst--seeking to sabotage our war effort. There are, here and there, evil and
baseless rumors against the Russians--rumors against the British--rumors against our own American
commanders in the field.

When you examine these rumors closely, you will observe that every one of them bears the same
trade-mark--"Made in Germany."

We must resist this divisive propaganda--we must destroy it--with the same strength and the
same determination that our fighting men are displaying as they resist and destroy the panzer
divisions.

In Europe, we shall resume the attack and--despite temporary setbacks here or there--we shall
continue the attack relentlessly until Germany is completely defeated.

It is appropriate at this time to review the basic strategy which has guided us through three
years of war, and which will lead, eventually, to total victory.

The tremendous effort of the first years of this war was directed toward the concentration
of men and supplies in the various theaters of action at the points where they could hurt our
enemies most.

It was an effort--in the language of the military men--of deployment of our forces. Many battles--essential
battles--were fought; many victories--vital victories--were won. But these battles and these
victories were fought and won to hold back the attacking enemy, and to put us in positions
from which we and our allies could deliver the final, decisive blows.

In the beginning our most important military task was to prevent our enemies--the strongest
and most violently aggressive powers that ever have threatened civilization--from winning decisive
victories. But even while we were conducting defensive, delaying actions, we were looking forward
to the time when we could wrest the initiative from our enemies and place our superior resources
of men and materials into direct competition with them.

It was plain then that the defeat of either enemy would require the massing of overwhelming
forces--ground, sea, and air--in positions from which we and our allies could strike directly
against the enemy homelands and destroy the Nazi and Japanese war machines.

In the case of Japan, we had to await the completion of extensive preliminary operations--operations
designed to establish secure supply lines through the Japanese outer-zone defenses. This called
for overwhelming sea power and air power--supported by ground forces strategically employed
against isolated outpost garrisons.

Always--from the very day we were attacked--it was right militarily as well as morally to reject
the arguments of those shortsighted people who would have had us throw Britain and Russia to
the Nazi wolves and concentrate against the Japanese. Such people urged that we fight a purely
defensive war against Japan while allowing the domination of all the rest of the world by Nazism
and Fascism.

In the European theater the necessary bases for the massing of ground and air power against
Germany were already available in Great Britain. In the Mediterranean area we could begin ground
operations against major elements of the German Army as rapidly as we could put troops in the
field, first in North Africa and then in Italy.

Therefore, our decision was made to concentrate the bulk of our ground and air forces against
Germany until her utter defeat. That decision was based on all these factors; and it was also
based on the realization that, of our two enemies, Germany would be more able to digest quickly
her conquests, the more able quickly to convert the manpower and resources of her conquered
territory into a war potential.

We had in Europe two active and indomitable allies--Britain and the Soviet Union--and there
were also the heroic resistance movements in the occupied countries, constantly engaging and
harassing the Germans. We cannot forget how Britain held the line, alone, in 1940 and 1941;
and at the same time, despite ferocious bombardment from the air, built up a tremendous armaments
industry which enabled her to take the offensive at El Alamein in 1942.

We cannot forget the heroic defense of Moscow and Leningrad and Stalingrad, or the tremendous
Russian offensives of 1943 and 1944 which destroyed formidable German armies.

Nor can we forget how, for more than seven long years, the Chinese people have been sustaining
the barbarous attacks of the Japanese and containing large enemy forces on the vast areas of
the Asiatic mainland.

In the future we must never forget the lesson that we have learned--that we must have friends
who will work with us in peace as they have fought at our side in war.

As a result of the combined effort of the Allied forces, great military victories were achieved
in 1944: The liberation of France, Belgium, Greece, and parts of The Netherlands, Norway, Poland,
Yugoslavia, and Czechoslovakia; the surrender of Rumania and Bulgaria; the invasion of Germany
itself and Hungary; the steady march through the Pacific islands to the Philippines, Guam,
and Saipan; and the beginnings of a mighty air offensive against the Japanese islands.

Now, as this Seventy-ninth Congress meets, we have reached the most critical phase of the war.

The greatest victory of the last year was, of course, the successful breach on June 6, 1944,
of the German "impregnable" seawall of Europe and the victorious sweep of the Allied forces
through France and Belgium and Luxembourg--almost to the Rhine itself.

The cross-channel invasion of the Allied armies was the greatest amphibious operation in the
history of the world. It overshadowed all other operations in this or any other war in its
immensity. Its success is a tribute to the fighting courage of the soldiers who stormed the
beaches--to the sailors and merchant seamen who put the soldiers ashore and kept them supplied--and
to the military and naval leaders who achieved a real miracle of planning and execution. And
it is also a tribute to the ability of two Nations, Britain and America, to plan together,
and work together, and fight together in perfect cooperation and perfect harmony.

This cross-channel invasion was followed in August by a second great amphibious operation,
landing troops in southern France. In this, the same cooperation and the same harmony existed
between the American, French, and other Allied forces based in North Africa and Italy.

The success of the two invasions is a tribute also to the ability of many men and women to
maintain silence, when a few careless words would have imperiled the lives of hundreds of thousands,
and would have jeopardized the whole vast undertakings.

These two great operations were made possible by success in the Battle of the Atlantic.

Without this success over German submarines, we could not have built up our invasion forces
or air forces in Great Britain, nor could we have kept a steady stream of supplies flowing
to them after they had landed in France.

The Nazis, however, may succeed in improving their submarines and their crews. They have recently
increased their U-boat activity. The Battle of the Atlantic--like all campaigns in this war--demands
eternal vigilance. But the British, Canadian, and other Allied navies, together with our own,
are constantly on the alert.

The tremendous operations in western Europe have overshadowed in the public mind the less spectacular
but vitally important Italian front. Its place in the strategic conduct of the war in Europe
has been obscured, and--by some people unfortunately--underrated.

It is important that any misconception on that score be corrected--now.

What the Allied forces in Italy are doing is a well-considered part in our strategy in Europe,
now aimed at only one objective--the total defeat of the Germans. These valiant forces in Italy
are continuing to keep a substantial portion of the German Army under constant pressure--including
some 20 first-line German divisions and the necessary supply and transport and replacement
troops--all of which our enemies need so badly elsewhere.

Over very difficult terrain and through adverse weather conditions, our Fifth Army and the
British Eighth Army--reinforced by units from other United Nations, including a brave and well
equipped unit of the Brazilian Army--have, in the past year, pushed north through bloody Cassino
and the Anzio beachhead, and through Rome until now they occupy heights overlooking the valley
of the Po.

The greatest tribute which can be paid to the courage and fighting ability of these splendid
soldiers in Italy is to point out that although their strength is about equal to that of the
Germans they oppose, the Allies have been continuously on the offensive.

That pressure, that offensive, by our troops in Italy will continue.

The American people--and every soldier now fighting in the Apennines--should remember that
the Italian front has not lost any of the importance which it had in the days when it was the
only Allied front in Europe.

In the Pacific during the past year, we have conducted the fastest-moving offensive in the
history of modern warfare. We have driven the enemy back more than 3,000 miles across the Central
Pacific. A year ago, our conquest of Tarawa was a little more than a month old.

A year ago, we were preparing for our invasion of Kwajalein, the second of our great strides
across the Central Pacific to the Philippines.

A year ago, General MacArthur was still fighting in New Guinea almost 1,500 miles from his
present position in the Philippine Islands.

We now have firmly established bases in the Mariana Islands, from which our Super fortresses
bomb Tokyo itself--and will continue to blast Japan in ever-increasing numbers.

Japanese forces in the Philippines have been cut in two. There is still hard fighting ahead--costly
fighting. But the liberation of the Philippines will mean that Japan has been largely cut off
from her conquests in the East Indies.

The landing of our troops on Leyte was the largest amphibious operation thus far conducted
in the Pacific.

Moreover, these landings drew the Japanese Fleet into the first great sea battle which Japan
has risked in almost two years. Not since the night engagements around Guadalcanal in November-December,
1942, had our Navy been able to come to grips with major units of the Japanese Fleet. We had
brushed against their fleet in the first battle of the Philippine Sea in June, 1944, but not
until last October were we able really to engage a major portion of the Japanese Navy in actual
combat. The naval engagement which raged for three days was the heaviest blow ever struck against
Japanese sea power.

As a result of that battle, much of what is left of the Japanese Fleet has been driven behind
the screen of islands that separates the Yellow Sea, the China Sea, and the Sea of Japan from
the Pacific.

Our Navy looks forward to any opportunity which the lords of the Japanese Navy will give us
to fight them again.

The people of this Nation have a right to be proud of the courage and fighting ability of the
men in the armed forces--on all fronts. They also have a right to be proud of American leadership
which has guided their sons into battle.

The history of the generalship of this war has been a history of teamwork and cooperation,
of skill and daring. Let me give you one example out of last year's operations in the Pacific.

Last September Admiral Halsey led American naval task forces into Philippine waters and north
to the East China Sea, and struck heavy blows at Japanese air and sea power.

At that time it was our plan to approach the Philippines by further stages, taking islands
which we may call A, C, and E. However, Admiral Halsey reported that a direct attack on Leyte
appeared feasible. When General MacArthur received the reports from Admiral Halsey's task forces,
he also concluded that it might be possible to attack the Japanese in the Philippines directly--bypassing
islands A, C, and E.

Admiral Nimitz thereupon offered to make available to General MacArthur several divisions which
had been scheduled to take the intermediate objectives. These discussions, conducted at great
distances, all took place in one day.

General MacArthur immediately informed the Joint Chiefs of Staff here in Washington that he
was prepared to initiate plans for an attack on Leyte in October. Approval of the change in
plan was given on the same day.

Thus, within the space of 24 hours, a major change of plans was accomplished which involved
Army and Navy forces from two different theaters of operations--a change which hastened the
liberation of the Philippines and the final day of victory--a change which saved lives which
would have been expended in the capture of islands which are now neutralized far behind our lines.

Our over-all strategy has not neglected the important task of rendering all possible aid to
China. Despite almost insuperable difficulties, we increased this aid during 1944. At present
our aid to China must be accomplished by air transport--there is no other way. By the end of
1944, the Air Transport Command was carrying into China a tonnage of supplies three times as
great as that delivered a year ago, and much more, each month, than the Burma Road ever delivered
at its peak.

Despite the loss of important bases in China, the tonnage delivered by air transport has enabled
General Chennault's Fourteenth Air Force, which includes many Chinese flyers, to wage an effective
and aggressive campaign against the Japanese. In 1944 aircraft of the Fourteenth Air Force
flew more than 35,000 sorties against the Japanese and sank enormous tonnage of enemy shipping,
greatly diminishing the usefulness of the China Sea lanes.

British, Dominion, and Chinese forces together with our own have not only held the line in
Burma against determined Japanese attacks but have gained bases of considerable importance
to the supply line into China.

The Burma campaigns have involved incredible hardship, and have demanded exceptional fortitude
and determination. The officers and men who have served with so much devotion in these far
distant jungles and mountains deserve high honor from their countrymen.

In all of the far-flung operations of our own armed forces--on land, and sea and in the air--the
final job, the toughest job, has been performed by the average, easy-going, hard-fighting young
American, who carries the weight of battle on his own shoulders.

It is to him that we and all future generations of Americans must pay grateful tribute.

But--it is of small satisfaction to him to know that monuments will be raised to him in the
future. He wants, he needs, and he is entitled to insist upon, our full and active support--now.

Although unprecedented production figures have made possible our victories, we shall have to
increase our goals even more in certain items.

Peak deliveries of supplies were made to the War Department in December, 1943. Due in part
to cutbacks, we have not produced as much since then. Deliveries of Army supplies were down
by 15 percent by July, 1944, before the upward trend was once more resumed.

Because of increased demands from overseas, the Army Service Forces in the month of October,
1944, had to increase its estimate of required production by 10 percent. But in November, one
month later, the requirements for 1945 had to be increased another 10 percent, sending the
production goal well above anything we have yet attained. Our armed forces in combat have steadily
increased their expenditure of medium and heavy artillery ammunition. As we continue the decisive
phases of this war, the munitions that we expend will mount day by day.

In October, 1944, while some were saying the war in Europe was over, the Army was shipping
more men to Europe than in any previous month of the war.

One of the most urgent immediate requirements of the armed forces is more nurses. Last April
the Army requirement for nurses was set at 50,000. Actual strength in nurses was then 40,000.
Since that time the Army has tried to raise the additional 10,000. Active recruiting has been
carried on, but the net gain in eight months has been only 2,000. There are now 42,000 nurses
in the Army.

Recent estimates have increased the total number needed to 60,000. That means that 18,000 more
nurses must be obtained for the Army alone and the Navy now requires 2,000 additional nurses.

The present shortage of Army nurses is reflected in undue strain on the existing force. More
than a thousand nurses are now hospitalized, and part of this is due to overwork. The shortage
is also indicated by the fact that 11 Army hospital units have been sent overseas without their
complement of nurses. At Army hospitals in the United States there is only 1 nurse to 26 beds,
instead of the recommended 1 to 15 beds.

It is tragic that the gallant women who have volunteered for service as nurses should be so
overworked. It is tragic that our wounded men should ever want for the best possible nursing care.

The inability to get the needed nurses for the Army is not due to any shortage of nurses; 280,000
registered nurses are now practicing in this country. It has been estimated by the War Manpower
Commission that 27,000 additional nurses could be made available to the armed forces without
interfering too seriously with the needs of the civilian population for nurses.

Since volunteering has not produced the number of nurses required, I urge that the Selective
Service Act be amended to provide for the induction of nurses into the armed forces. The need
is too pressing to await the outcome of further efforts at recruiting.

The care and treatment given to our wounded and sick soldiers have been the best known to medical
science. Those standards must be maintained at all costs. We cannot tolerate a lowering of
them by failure to provide adequate nursing for the brave men who stand desperately in need of it.

In the continuing progress of this war we have constant need for new types of weapons, for
we cannot afford to fight the war of today or tomorrow with the weapons of yesterday. For example,
the American Army now has developed a new tank with a gun more powerful than any yet mounted
on a fast-moving vehicle. The Army will need many thousands of these new tanks in 1945.

Almost every month finds some new development in electronics which must be put into production
in order to maintain our technical superiority--and in order to save lives. We have to work
every day to keep ahead of the enemy in radar. On D-Day, in France, with our superior new equipment,
we located and then put out of operation every warning set which the Germans had along the
French coast.

If we do not keep constantly ahead of our enemies in the development of new weapons, we pay
for our backwardness with the life's blood of our sons.

The only way to meet these increased needs for new weapons and more of them is for every American
engaged in war work to stay on his war job--for additional American civilians, men and women,
not engaged in essential work, to go out and get a war job. Workers who are released because
their production is cut back should get another job where production is being increased. This
is no time to quit or change to less essential jobs.

There is an old and true saying that the Lord hates a quitter. And this Nation must pay for
all those who leave their essential jobs--or all those who lay down on their essential jobs
for nonessential reasons. And--again--that payment must be made with the life's blood of our sons.

Many critical production programs with sharply rising needs are now seriously hampered by manpower
shortages. The most important Army needs are artillery ammunition, cotton duck, bombs, tires,
tanks, heavy trucks, and even B-29's. In each of these vital programs, present production is
behind requirements.

Navy production of bombardment ammunition is hampered by manpower shortages; so is production
for its huge rocket program. Labor shortages have also delayed its cruiser and carrier programs,
and production of certain types of aircraft.

There is critical need for more repair workers and repair parts; this Jack delays the return
of damaged fighting ships to their places in the fleet, and prevents ships now in the fighting
line from getting needed overhauling.

The pool of young men under 26 classified as I-A is almost depleted. Increased replacements
for the armed forces will take men now deferred who are at work in war industry. The armed
forces must have an assurance of a steady flow of young men for replacements. Meeting this
paramount need will be difficult, and will also make it progressively more difficult to attain
the 1945 production goals.

Last year, after much consideration, I recommended that the Congress adopt a national service
act as the most efficient and democratic way of insuring full production for our war requirements.
This recommendation was not adopted.

I now again call upon the Congress to enact this measure for the total mobilization of all
our human resources for the prosecution of the war. I urge that this be done at the earliest
possible moment.

It is not too late in the war. In fact, bitter experience has shown that in this kind of mechanized
warfare where new weapons are constantly being created by our enemies and by ourselves, the
closer we come to the end of the war, the more pressing becomes the need for sustained war
production with which to deliver the final blow to the enemy.

There are three basic arguments for a national service law:

First, it would assure that we have the right numbers of workers in the right places at the
right times.

Second, it would provide supreme proof to all our fighting men that we are giving them what
they are entitled to, which is nothing less than our total effort.

And, third, it would be the final, unequivocal answer to the hopes of the Nazis and the Japanese
that we may become halfhearted about this war and that they can get from us a negotiated peace.

National service legislation would make it possible to put ourselves in a position to assure
certain and speedy action in meeting our manpower needs.

It would be used only to the extent absolutely required by military necessities. In fact, experience
in Great Britain and in other Nations at war indicates that use of the compulsory powers of
national service is necessary only in rare instances.

This proposed legislation would provide against loss of retirement and seniority rights and
benefits. It would not mean reduction in wages.

In adopting such legislation, it is not necessary to discard the voluntary and cooperative
processes which have prevailed up to this time. This cooperation has already produced great
results. The contribution of our workers to the war effort has been beyond measure. We must
build on the foundations that have already been laid and supplement the measures now in operation,
in order to guarantee the production that may be necessary in the critical period that lies ahead.

At the present time we are using the inadequate tools at hand to do the best we can by such
expedients as manpower ceilings, and the use of priority and other powers, to induce men and
women to shift from non-essential to essential war jobs.

I am in receipt of a joint letter from the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy,
dated January 3, 1945, which says:

"With the experience of three years of war and after the most thorough consideration, we are
convinced that it is now necessary to carry out the statement made by the Congress in the joint
resolutions declaring that a state of war existed with Japan and Germany: That 'to bring the
conflict to a successful conclusion, all of the resources of the country are hereby pledged
by the Congress of the United States.'

"In our considered judgment, which is supported by General Marshall and Admiral King, this
requires total mobilization of our manpower by the passage of a national war service law. The
armed forces need this legislation to hasten the day of final victory, and to keep to a minimum
the cost in lives.

"National war service, the recognition by law of the duty of every citizen to do his or her
part in winning the war, will give complete assurance that the need for war equipment will
be filled. In the coming year we must increase the output of many weapons and supplies on short
notice. Otherwise we shall not keep our production abreast of the swiftly changing needs of
war. At the same time it will be necessary to draw progressively many men now engaged in war
production to serve with the armed forces, and their places in war production must be filled
promptly. These developments will require the addition of hundreds of thousands to those already
working in war industry. We do not believe that these needs can be met effectively under present
methods.

"The record made by management and labor in war industry has been a notable testimony to the
resourcefulness and power of America. The needs are so great, nevertheless, that in many instances
we have been forced to recall soldiers and sailors from military duty to do work of a civilian
character in war production, because of the urgency of the need for equipment and because of
inability to recruit civilian labor."

Pending action by the Congress on the broader aspects of national service, I recommend that
the Congress immediately enact legislation which will be effective in using the services of
the 4,000,000 men now classified as IV-F in whatever capacity is best for the war effort.

In the field of foreign policy, we propose to stand together with the United Nations not for
the war alone but for the victory for which the war is fought.

It is not only a common danger which unites us but a common hope. Ours is an association not
of Governments but of peoples--and the peoples' hope is peace. Here, as in England; in England,
as in Russia; in Russia, as in China; in France, and through the continent of Europe, and throughout
the world; wherever men love freedom, the hope and purpose of the people are for peace--a peace
that is durable and secure.

It will not be easy to create this peoples' peace. We delude ourselves if we believe that the
surrender of the armies of our enemies will make the peace we long for. The unconditional surrender
of the armies of our enemies is the first and necessary step--but the first step only.

We have seen already, in areas liberated from the Nazi and the Fascist tyranny, what problems
peace will bring. And we delude ourselves if we attempt to believe wishfully that all these
problems can be solved overnight.

The firm foundation can be built--and it will be built. But the continuance and assurance of
a living peace must, in the long run, be the work of the people themselves.

We ourselves, like all peoples who have gone through the difficult processes of liberation
and adjustment, know of our own experience how great the difficulties can be. We know that
they are not difficulties peculiar to any continent or any Nation. Our own Revolutionary War
left behind it, in the words of one American historian, "an eddy of lawlessness and disregard
of human life." There were separatist movements of one kind or another in Vermont, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Maine. There were insurrections, open or threatened, in
Massachusetts and New Hampshire. These difficulties we worked out for ourselves as the peoples
of the liberated areas of Europe, faced with complex problems of adjustment, will work out
their difficulties for themselves.

Peace can be made and kept only by the united determination of free and peace-loving peoples
who are willing to work together--willing to help one another--willing to respect and tolerate
and try to understand one another's opinions and feelings.

The nearer we come to vanquishing our enemies the more we inevitably become conscious of differences
among the victors.

We must not let those differences divide us and blind us to our more important common and continuing
interests in winning the war and building the peace.

International cooperation on which enduring peace must be based is not a one-way street.

Nations like individuals do not always see alike or think alike, and international cooperation
and progress are not helped by any Nation assuming that it has a monopoly of wisdom or of virtue.

In the future world the misuse of power, as implied in the term "power politics," must not
be a controlling factor in international relations. That is the heart of the principles to
which we have subscribed. We cannot deny that power is a factor in world politics any more
than we can deny its existence as a factor in national politics. But in a democratic world,
as in a democratic Nation, power must be linked with responsibility, and obliged to defend
and justify itself within the framework of the general good.

Perfectionism, no less than isolationism or imperialism or power politics, may obstruct the
paths to international peace. Let us not forget that the retreat to isolationism a quarter
of a century ago was started not by a direct attack against international cooperation but against
the alleged imperfections of the peace.

In our disillusionment after the last war we preferred international anarchy to international
cooperation with Nations which did not see and think exactly as we did. We gave up the hope
of gradually achieving a better peace because we had not the courage to fulfill our responsibilities
in an admittedly imperfect world.

We must not let that happen again, or we shall follow the same tragic road again--the road
to a third world war.

We can fulfill our responsibilities for maintaining the security of our own country only by
exercising our power and our influence to achieve the principles in which we believe and for
which we have fought.

In August, 1941, Prime Minister Churchill and I agreed to the principles of the Atlantic Charter,
these being later incorporated into the Declaration by United Nations of January 1, 1942. At
that time certain isolationists protested vigorously against our right to proclaim the principles--and
against the very principles themselves. Today, many of the same people are protesting against
the possibility of violation of the same principles.

It is true that the statement of principles in the Atlantic Charter does not provide rules
of easy application to each and every one of this war-torn world's tangled situations. But
it is a good and a useful thing-- it is an essential thing--to have principles toward which
we can aim.

And we shall not hesitate to use our influence--and to use it now--to secure so far as is humanly
possible the fulfillment of the principles of the Atlantic Charter. We have not shrunk from
the military responsibilities brought on by this war. We cannot and will not shrink from the
political responsibilities which follow in the wake of battle.

I do not wish to give the impression that all mistakes can be avoided and that many disappointments
are not inevitable in the making of peace. But we must not this time lose the hope of establishing
an international order which will be capable of maintaining peace and realizing through the
years more perfect justice between Nations.

To do this we must be on our guard not to exploit and exaggerate the differences between us
and our allies, particularly with reference to the peoples who have been liberated from Fascist
tyranny. That is not the way to secure a better settlement of those differences or to secure
international machinery which can rectify mistakes which may be made.

I should not be frank if I did not admit concern about many situations--the Greek and Polish
for example. But those situations are not as easy or as simple to deal with as some spokesmen,
whose sincerity I do not question, would have us believe. We have obligations, not necessarily
legal, to the exiled Governments, to the underground leaders, and to our major allies who came
much nearer the shadows than we did.

We and our allies have declared that it is our purpose to respect the right of all peoples
to choose the form of government under which they will live and to see sovereign rights and
self-government restored to those who have been forcibly deprived of them. But with internal
dissension, with many citizens of liberated countries still prisoners of war or forced to labor
in Germany, it is difficult to guess the kind of self-government the people really want.

During the interim period, until conditions permit a genuine expression of the people's will,
we and our allies have a duty, which we cannot ignore, to use our influence to the end that
no temporary or provisional authorities in the liberated countries block the eventual exercise
of the peoples' right freely to choose the government and institutions under which, as freemen,
they are to live.

It is only too easy for all of us to rationalize what we want to believe, and to consider those
leaders we like responsible and those we dislike irresponsible. And our task is not helped
by stubborn partisanship, however understandable on the part of opposed internal factions.

It is our purpose to help the peace-loving peoples of Europe to live together as good neighbors,
to recognize their common interests and not to nurse their traditional grievances against one
another.

But we must not permit the many specific and immediate problems of adjustment connected with
the liberation of Europe to delay the establishment of permanent machinery for the maintenance
of peace. Under the threat of a common danger, the United Nations joined together in war to
preserve their independence and their freedom. They must now join together to make secure the
independence and freedom of all peace-loving states, so that never again shall tyranny be able
to divide and conquer.

International peace and well-being, like national peace and well-being, require constant alertness,
continuing cooperation, and organized effort.

International peace and well-being, like national peace and well-being, can be secured only
through institutions capable of life and growth.

Many of the problems of the peace are upon us even now while the conclusion of the war is still
before us. The atmosphere of friendship and mutual understanding and determination to find
a common ground of common understanding, which surrounded the conversations at Dumbarton Oaks,
gives us reason to hope that future discussions will succeed in developing the democratic and
fully integrated world security system toward which these preparatory conversations were directed.

We and the other United Nations are going forward, with vigor and resolution, in our efforts
to create such a system by providing for it strong and flexible institutions of joint and cooperative
action.

The aroused conscience of humanity will not permit failure in this supreme endeavor.

We believe that the extraordinary advances in the means of intercommunication between peoples
over the past generation offer a practical method of advancing the mutual understanding upon
which peace and the institutions of peace must rest, and it is our policy and purpose to use
these great technological achievements for the common advantage of the world.

We support the greatest possible freedom of trade and commerce.

We Americans have always believed in freedom of opportunity, and equality of opportunity remains
one of the principal objectives of our national life. What we believe in for individuals, we
believe in also for Nations. We are opposed to restrictions, whether by public act or private
arrangement, which distort and impair commerce, transit, and trade.

We have house-cleaning of our own to do in this regard. But it is our hope, not only in the
interest of our own prosperity but in the interest of the prosperity of the world, that trade
and commerce and access to materials and markets may be freer after this war than ever before
in the history of the world.

One of the most heartening events of the year in the international field has been the renaissance
of the French people and the return of the French Nation to the ranks of the United Nations.
Far from having been crushed by the terror of Nazi domination, the French people have emerged
with stronger faith than ever in the destiny of their country and in the soundness of the democratic
ideals to which the French Nation has traditionally contributed so greatly.

During her liberation, France has given proof of her unceasing determination to fight the Germans,
continuing the heroic efforts of the resistance groups under the occupation and of all those
Frenchmen throughout the world who refused to surrender after the disaster of 1940.

Today, French armies are again on the German frontier, and are again fighting shoulder to shoulder
with our sons.

Since our landings in Africa, we have placed in French hands all the arms and material of war
which our resources and the military situation permitted. And I am glad to say that we are
now about to equip large new French forces with the most modern weapons for combat duty.

In addition to the contribution which France can make to our common victory, her liberation
likewise means that her great influence will again be available in meeting the problems of peace.

We fully recognize France's vital interest in a lasting solution of the German problem and
the contribution which she can make in achieving international security. Her formal adherence
to the declaration by United Nations a few days ago and the proposal at the Dumbarton Oaks
discussions, whereby France would receive one of the five permanent seats in the proposed Security
Council, demonstrate the extent to which France has resumed her proper position of strength
and leadership.

I am clear in my own mind that, as an essential factor in the maintenance of peace in the future,
we must have universal military training after this war, and I shall send a special message
to the Congress on this subject.

An enduring peace cannot be achieved without a strong America--strong in the social and economic
sense as well as in the military sense.

In the State of the Union message last year I set forth what I considered to be an American
economic bill of rights.

Of these rights the most fundamental, and one on which the fulfillment of the others in large
degree depends, is the "right to a useful and remunerative job in the industries or shops or
farms or mines of the Nation." In turn, others of the economic rights of American citizenship,
such as the right to a decent home, to a good education, to good medical care, to social security,
to reasonable farm income, will, if fulfilled, make major contributions to achieving adequate
levels of employment.

The Federal Government must see to it that these rights become realities--with the help of
States, municipalities, business, labor, and agriculture.

We have had full employment during the war. We have had it because the Government has been
ready to buy all the materials of war which the country could produce--and this has amounted
to approximately half our present productive capacity.

After the war we must maintain full employment with Government performing its peacetime functions.
This means that we must achieve a level of demand and purchasing power by private consumers--farmers,
businessmen, workers, professional men, housewives--which is sufficiently high to replace wartime
Government demands; and it means also that we must greatly increase our export trade above
the prewar level.

Our policy is, of course, to rely as much as possible on private enterprise to provide jobs.
But the American people will not accept mass unemployment or mere makeshift work. There will
be need for the work of everyone willing and able to work--and that means close to 60,000,000 jobs.

Full employment means not only jobs--but productive jobs. Americans do not regard jobs that
pay substandard wages as productive jobs.

We must make sure that private enterprise works as it is supposed to work-- on the basis of
initiative and vigorous competition, without the stifling presence of monopolies and cartels.

During the war we have guaranteed investment in enterprise essential to the war effort. We
should also take appropriate measures in peacetime to secure opportunities for new small enterprises
and for productive business expansion for which finance would otherwise be unavailable.

This necessary expansion of our peacetime productive capacity will require new facilities,
new plants, and new equipment.

It will require large outlays of money which should be raised through normal investment channels.
But while private capital should finance this expansion program, the Government should recognize
its responsibility for sharing part of any special or abnormal risk of loss attached to such
financing.

Our full-employment program requires the extensive development of our natural resources and
other useful public works. The undeveloped resources of this continent are still vast. Our
river-watershed projects will add new and fertile territories to the United States. The Tennessee
Valley Authority, which was constructed at a cost of $750,000,000--the cost of waging this
war for less than 4 days--was a bargain. We have similar opportunities in our other great river
basins. By harnessing the resources of these river basins, as we have in the Tennessee Valley,
we shall provide the same kind of stimulus to enterprise as was provided by the Louisiana Purchase
and the new discoveries in the West during the nineteenth century.

If we are to avail ourselves fully of the benefits of civil aviation, and if we are to use
the automobiles we can produce, it will be necessary to construct thousands of airports and
to overhaul our entire national highway system.

The provision of a decent home for every family is a national necessity, if this country is
to be worthy of its greatness--and that task will itself create great employment opportunities.
Most of our cities need extensive rebuilding. Much of our farm plant is in a state of disrepair.
To make a frontal attack on the problems of housing and urban reconstruction will require thoroughgoing
cooperation between industry and labor, and the Federal, State, and local Governments.

An expanded social security program, and adequate health and education programs, must play
essential roles in a program designed to support individual productivity and mass purchasing
power. I shall communicate further with the Congress on these subjects at a later date.

The millions of productive jobs that a program of this nature could bring are jobs in private
enterprise. They are jobs based on the expanded demand for the output of our economy for consumption
and investment. Through a program of this character we can maintain a national income high
enough to provide for an orderly retirement of the public debt along with reasonable tax reduction.

Our present tax system geared primarily to war requirements must be revised for peacetime so
as to encourage private demand.

While no general revision of the tax structure can be made until the war ends on all fronts,
the Congress should be prepared to provide tax modifications at the end of the war in Europe,
designed to encourage capital to invest in new enterprises and to provide jobs. As an integral
part of this program to maintain high employment, we must, after the war is over, reduce or
eliminate taxes which bear too heavily on consumption.

The war will leave deep disturbances in the world economy, in our national economy, in many
communities, in many families, and in many individuals. It will require determined effort and
responsible action of all of us to find our way back to peacetime, and to help others to find
their way back to peacetime--a peacetime that holds the values of the past and the promise
of the future.

If we attack our problems with determination we shall succeed. And we must succeed. For freedom
and peace cannot exist without security.

During the past year the American people, in a national election, reasserted their democratic
faith.

In the course of that campaign various references were made to "strife" between this Administration
and the Congress, with the implication, if not the direct assertion, that this Administration
and the Congress could never work together harmoniously in the service of the Nation.

It cannot be denied that there have been disagreements between the legislative and executive
branches--as there have been disagreements during the past century and a half.

I think we all realize too that there are some people in this Capital City whose task is in
large part to stir up dissension, and to magnify normal healthy disagreements so that they
appear to be irreconcilable conflicts.

But--I think that the over-all record in this respect is eloquent: The Government of the United
States of America--all branches of it--has a good record of achievement in this war.

The Congress, the Executive, and the Judiciary have worked together for the common good.

I myself want to tell you, the Members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, how
happy I am in our relationships and friendships. I have not yet had the pleasure of meeting
some of the new Members in each House, but I hope that opportunity will offer itself in the
near future.

We have a great many problems ahead of us and we must approach them with realism and courage.

This new year of 1945 can be the greatest year of achievement in human history.

Nineteen forty-five can see the final ending of the Nazi-Fascist reign of terror in Europe.

Nineteen forty-five can see the closing in of the forces of retribution about the center of
the malignant power of imperialistic Japan.

Most important of all--1945 can and must see the substantial beginning of the organization
of world peace. This organization must be the fulfillment of the promise for which men have
fought and died in this war. It must be the justification of all the sacrifices that have been
made--of all the dreadful misery that this world has endured.

We Americans of today, together with our allies, are making history--and I hope it will be
better history than ever has been made before.

We pray that we may be worthy of the unlimited opportunities that God has given us.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 4, 1935

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:

The Constitution wisely provides that the Chief Executive shall report to the Congress on the
state of the Union, for through you, the chosen legislative representatives, our citizens everywhere
may fairly judge the progress of our governing. I am confident that today, in the light of
the events of the past two years, you do not consider it merely a trite phrase when I tell
you that I am truly glad to greet you and that I look forward to common counsel, to useful
cooperation, and to genuine friendships between us.

We have undertaken a new order of things; yet we progress to it under the framework and in
the spirit and intent of the American Constitution. We have proceeded throughout the Nation
a measurable distance on the road toward this new order. Materially, I can report to you substantial
benefits to our agricultural population, increased industrial activity, and profits to our
merchants. Of equal moment, there is evident a restoration of that spirit of confidence and
faith which marks the American character. Let him, who, for speculative profit or partisan
purpose, without just warrant would seek to disturb or dispel this assurance, take heed before
he assumes responsibility for any act which slows our onward steps.

Throughout the world, change is the order of the day. In every Nation economic problems, long
in the making, have brought crises of many kinds for which the masters of old practice and
theory were unprepared. In most Nations social justice, no longer a distant ideal, has become
a definite goal, and ancient Governments are beginning to heed the call.

Thus, the American people do not stand alone in the world in their desire for change. We seek
it through tested liberal traditions, through processes which retain all of the deep essentials
of that republican form of representative government first given to a troubled world by the
United States.

As the various parts in the program begun in the Extraordinary Session of the 73rd Congress
shape themselves in practical administration, the unity of our program reveals itself to the
Nation. The outlines of the new economic order, rising from the disintegration of the old,
are apparent. We test what we have done as our measures take root in the living texture of
life. We see where we have built wisely and where we can do still better.

The attempt to make a distinction between recovery and reform is a narrowly conceived effort
to substitute the appearance of reality for reality itself. When a man is convalescing from
illness, wisdom dictates not only cure of the symptoms, but also removal of their cause.

It is important to recognize that while we seek to outlaw specific abuses, the American objective
of today has an infinitely deeper, finer and more lasting purpose than mere repression. Thinking
people in almost every country of the world have come to realize certain fundamental difficulties
with which civilization must reckon. Rapid changes--the machine age, the advent of universal
and rapid communication and many other new factors--have brought new problems. Succeeding generations
have attempted to keep pace by reforming in piecemeal fashion this or that attendant abuse.
As a result, evils overlap and reform becomes confused and frustrated. We lose sight, from
time to time, of our ultimate human objectives.

Let us, for a moment, strip from our simple purpose the confusion that results from a multiplicity
of detail and from millions of written and spoken words.

We find our population suffering from old inequalities, little changed by vast sporadic remedies.
In spite of our efforts and in spite of our talk, we have not weeded out the over privileged
and we have not effectively lifted up the underprivileged. Both of these manifestations of
injustice have retarded happiness. No wise man has any intention of destroying what is known
as the profit motive; because by the profit motive we mean the right by work to earn a decent
livelihood for ourselves and for our families.

We have, however, a clear mandate from the people, that Americans must forswear that conception
of the acquisition of wealth which, through excessive profits, creates undue private power
over private affairs and, to our misfortune, over public affairs as well. In building toward
this end we do not destroy ambition, nor do we seek to divide our wealth into equal shares
on stated occasions. We continue to recognize the greater ability of some to earn more than
others. But we do assert that the ambition of the individual to obtain for him and his a proper
security, a reasonable leisure, and a decent living throughout life, is an ambition to be preferred
to the appetite for great wealth and great power.

I recall to your attention my message to the Congress last June in which I said: "among our
objectives I place the security of the men, women and children of the Nation first." That remains
our first and continuing task; and in a very real sense every major legislative enactment of
this Congress should be a component part of it.

In defining immediate factors which enter into our quest, I have spoken to the Congress and
the people of three great divisions:

1. The security of a livelihood through the better use of the national resources of the land
in which we live.

2. The security against the major hazards and vicissitudes of life.

3. The security of decent homes.

I am now ready to submit to the Congress a broad program designed ultimately to establish all
three of these factors of security--a program which because of many lost years will take many
future years to fulfill.

A study of our national resources, more comprehensive than any previously made, shows the vast
amount of necessary and practicable work which needs to be done for the development and preservation
of our natural wealth for the enjoyment and advantage of our people in generations to come.
The sound use of land and water is far more comprehensive than the mere planting of trees,
building of dams, distributing of electricity or retirement of sub-marginal land. It recognizes
that stranded populations, either in the country or the city, cannot have security under the
conditions that now surround them.

To this end we are ready to begin to meet this problem--the intelligent care of population
throughout our Nation, in accordance with an intelligent distribution of the means of livelihood
for that population. A definite program for putting people to work, of which I shall speak
in a moment, is a component part of this greater program of security of livelihood through
the better use of our national resources.

Closely related to the broad problem of livelihood is that of security against the major hazards
of life. Here also, a comprehensive survey of what has been attempted or accomplished in many
Nations and in many States proves to me that the time has come for action by the national Government.
I shall send to you, in a few days, definite recommendations based on these studies. These
recommendations will cover the broad subjects of unemployment insurance and old age insurance,
of benefits for children, form others, for the handicapped, for maternity care and for other
aspects of dependency and illness where a beginning can now be made.

The third factor--better homes for our people--has also been the subject of experimentation
and study. Here, too, the first practical steps can be made through the proposals which I shall
suggest in relation to giving work to the unemployed.

Whatever we plan and whatever we do should be in the light of these three clear objectives
of security. We cannot afford to lose valuable time in haphazard public policies which cannot
find a place in the broad outlines of these major purposes. In that spirit I come to an immediate
issue made for us by hard and inescapable circumstance--the task of putting people to work.
In the spring of 1933 the issue of destitution seemed to stand apart; today, in the light of
our experience and our new national policy, we find we can put people to work in ways which
conform to, initiate and carry forward the broad principles of that policy.

The first objectives of emergency legislation of 1933 were to relieve destitution, to make
it possible for industry to operate in a more rational and orderly fashion, and to put behind
industrial recovery the impulse of large expenditures in Government undertakings. The purpose
of the National Industrial Recovery Act to provide work for more people succeeded in a substantial
manner within the first few months of its life, and the Act has continued to maintain employment
gains and greatly improved working conditions in industry.

The program of public works provided for in the Recovery Act launched the Federal Government
into a task for which there was little time to make preparation and little American experience
to follow. Great employment has been given and is being given by these works.

More than two billions of dollars have also been expended in direct relief to the destitute.
Local agencies of necessity determined the recipients of this form of relief. With inevitable
exceptions the funds were spent by them with reasonable efficiency and as a result actual want
of food and clothing in the great majority of cases has been overcome.

But the stark fact before us is that great numbers still remain unemployed.

A large proportion of these unemployed and their dependents have been forced on the relief
rolls. The burden on the Federal Government has grown with great rapidity. We have here a human
as well as an economic problem. When humane considerations are concerned, Americans give them
precedence. The lessons of history, confirmed by the evidence immediately before me, show conclusively
that continued dependence upon relief induces a spiritual and moral disintegration fundamentally
destructive to the national fibre. To dole out relief in this way is to administer a narcotic,
a subtle destroyer of the human spirit. It is inimical to the dictates of sound policy. It
is in violation of the traditions of America. Work must be found for able-bodied but destitute
workers.

The Federal Government must and shall quit this business of relief.

I am not willing that the vitality of our people be further sapped by the giving of cash, of
market baskets, of a few hours of weekly work cutting grass, raking leaves or picking up .papers
in the public parks. We must preserve not only the bodies of the unemployed from destitution
but also their self-respect, their self-reliance and courage and determination. This decision
brings me to the problem of what the Government should do with approximately five million unemployed
now on the relief rolls.

About one million and a half of these belong to the group which in the past was dependent upon
local welfare efforts. Most of them are unable for one reason or another to maintain themselves
independently--for the most part, through no fault of their own. Such people, in the days before
the great depression, were cared for by local efforts--by States, by counties, by towns, by
cities, by churches and by private welfare agencies. It is my thought that in the future they
must be cared for as they were before. I stand ready through my own personal efforts, and through
the public influence of the office that I hold, to help these local agencies to get the means
necessary to assume this burden.

The security legislation which I shall propose to the Congress will, I am confident, be of
assistance to local effort in the care of this type of cases. Local responsibility can and
will be resumed, for, after all, common sense tells us that the wealth necessary for this task
existed and still exists in the local community, and the dictates of sound administration require
that this responsibility be in the first instance a local one. There are, however, an additional
three and one half million employable people who are on relief. With them the problem is different
and the responsibility is different. This group was the victim of a nation-wide depression
caused by conditions which were not local but national. The Federal Government is the only
governmental agency with sufficient power and credit to meet this situation. We have assumed
this task and we shall not shrink from it in the future. It is a duty dictated by every intelligent
consideration of national policy to ask you to make it possible for the United States to give
employment to all of these three and one half million employable people now on relief, pending
their absorption in a rising tide of private employment.

It is my thought that with the exception of certain of the normal public building operations
of the Government, all emergency public works shall be united in a single new and greatly enlarged
plan.

With the establishment of this new system we can supersede the Federal Emergency Relief Administration
with a coordinated authority which will be charged with the orderly liquidation of our present
relief activities and the substitution of a national chart for the giving of work.

This new program of emergency public employment should be governed by a number of practical
principles.

(1) All work undertaken should be useful--not just for a day, or a year, but useful in the
sense that it affords permanent improvement in living conditions or that it creates future
new wealth for the Nation.

(2) Compensation on emergency public projects should be in the form of security payments which
should be larger than the amount now received as a relief dole, but at the same time not so
large as to encourage the rejection of opportunities for private employment or the leaving
of private employment to engage in Government work.

(3) Projects should be undertaken on which a large percentage of direct labor can be used.

(4) Preference should be given to those projects which will be self-liquidating in the sense
that there is a reasonable expectation that the Government will get its money back at some
future time.

(5) The projects undertaken should be selected and planned so as to compete as little as possible
with private enterprises. This suggests that if it were not for the necessity of giving useful
work to the unemployed now on relief, these projects in most instances would not now be undertaken.

(6) The planning of projects would seek to assure work during the coming fiscal year to the
individuals now on relief, or until such time as private employment is available. In order
to make adjustment to increasing private employment, work should be planned with a view to
tapering it off in proportion to the speed with which the emergency workers are offered positions
with private employers.

(7) Effort should be made to locate projects where they will serve the greatest unemployment
needs as shown by present relief rolls, and the broad program of the National Resources Board
should be freely used for guidance in selection. Our ultimate objective being the enrichment
of human lives, the Government has the primary duty to use its emergency expenditures as much
as possible to serve those who cannot secure the advantages of private capital.

Ever since the adjournment of the 73d Congress, the Administration has been studying from every
angle the possibility and the practicability of new forms of employment. As a result of these
studies I have arrived at certain very definite convictions as to the amount of money that
will be necessary for the sort of public projects that I have described. I shall submit these
figures in my budget message. I assure you now they will be within the sound credit of the
Government.

The work itself will cover a wide field including clearance of slums, which for adequate reasons
cannot be undertaken by private capital; in rural housing of several kinds, where, again, private
capital is unable to function; in rural electrification; in the reforestation of the great
watersheds of the Nation; in an intensified program to prevent soil erosion and to reclaim
blighted areas; in improving existing road systems and in constructing national highways designed
to handle modern traffic; in the elimination of grade crossings; in the extension and enlargement
of the successful work of the Civilian Conservation Corps; in non-Federal works, mostly self-liquidating
and highly useful to local divisions of Government; and on many other projects which the Nation
needs and cannot afford to neglect.

This is the method which I propose to you in order that we may better meet this present-day
problem of unemployment. Its greatest advantage is that it fits logically and usefully into
the long-range permanent policy of providing the three types of security which constitute as
a whole an American plan for the betterment of the future of the American people.

I shall consult with you from time to time concerning other measures of national importance.
Among the subjects that lie immediately before us are the consolidation of Federal regulatory
administration over all forms of transportation, the renewal and clarification of the general
purposes of the National Industrial Recovery Act, the strengthening of our facilities for the
prevention, detection and treatment of crime and criminals, the restoration of sound conditions
in the public utilities field through abolition of the evil features of holding companies,
the gradual tapering off of the emergency credit activities of Government, and improvement
in our taxation forms and methods.

We have already begun to feel the bracing effect upon our economic system of a restored agriculture.
The hundreds of millions of additional income that farmers are receiving are finding their
way into the channels of trade. The farmers' share of the national income is slowly rising.
The economic facts justify the widespread opinion of those engaged in agriculture that our
provisions for maintaining a balanced production give at this time the most adequate remedy
for an old and vexing problem. For the present, and especially in view of abnormal world conditions,
agricultural adjustment with certain necessary improvements in methods should continue.

It seems appropriate to call attention at this time to the fine spirit shown during the past
year by our public servants. I cannot praise too highly the cheerful work of the Civil Service
employees, and of those temporarily working for the Government. As for those thousands in our
various public agencies spread throughout the country who, without compensation, agreed to
take over heavy responsibilities in connection with our various loan agencies and particularly
in direct relief work, I cannot say too much. I do not think any country could show a higher
average of cheerful and even enthusiastic team-work than has been shown by these men and women.

I cannot with candor tell you that general international relationships outside the borders
of the United States are improved. On the surface of things many old jealousies are resurrected,
old passions aroused; new strivings for armament and power, in more than one land, rear their
ugly heads. I hope that calm counsel and constructive leadership will provide the steadying
influence and the time necessary for the coming of new and more practical forms of representative
government throughout the world wherein privilege and power will occupy a lesser place and
world welfare a greater.

I believe, however, that our own peaceful and neighborly attitude toward other Nations is coming
to be understood and appreciated. The maintenance of international peace is a matter in which
we are deeply and unselfishly concerned. Evidence of our persistent and undeniable desire to
prevent armed conflict has recently been more than once afforded.

There is no ground for apprehension that our relations with any Nation will be otherwise than
peaceful. Nor is there ground for doubt that the people of most Nations seek relief from the
threat and burden attaching to the false theory that extravagant armament cannot be reduced
and limited by international accord.

The ledger of the past year shows many more gains than losses. Let us not forget that, in addition
to saving millions from utter destitution, child labor has been for the moment outlawed, thousands
of homes saved to their owners and most important of all, the morale of the Nation has been
restored. Viewing the year 1934 as a whole, you and I can agree that we have a generous measure
of reasons for giving thanks.

It is not empty optimism that moves me to a strong hope in the coming year. We can, if we will,
make 1935 a genuine period of good feeling, sustained by a sense of purposeful progress. Beyond
the material recovery, I sense a spiritual recovery as well. The people of America are turning
as never before to those permanent values that are not limited to the physical objectives of
life. There are growing signs of this on every hand. In the face of these spiritual impulses
we are sensible of the Divine Providence to which Nations turn now, as always, for guidance
and fostering care. Having come so far, it is fitting that we should pause to survey the ground
which we have covered and the path which lies ahead.

On the fourth day of March, 1933, on the occasion of taking the oath of office as President
of the United States, I addressed the people of our country. Need I recall either the scene
or the national circumstances attending the occasion? The crisis of that moment was almost
exclusively a national one. In recognition of that fact, so obvious to the millions in the
streets and in the homes of America, I devoted by far the greater part of that address to what
I called, and the Nation called, critical days within our own borders.

You will remember that on that fourth of March, 1933, the world picture was an image of substantial
peace. International consultation and widespread hope for the bettering of relations between
the Nations gave to all of us a reasonable expectation that the barriers to mutual confidence,
to increased trade, and to the peaceful settlement of disputes could be progressively removed.
In fact, my only reference to the field of world policy in that address was in these words:
"I would dedicate this Nation to the policy of the good neighbor--the neighbor who resolutely
respects himself and, because he does so, respects the rights of others--a neighbor who respects
his obligations and respects the sanctity of his agreements in and with a world of neighbors."

In the years that have followed, that sentiment has remained the dedication of this Nation.
Among the Nations of the great Western Hemisphere the policy of the good neighbor has happily
prevailed. At no time in the four and a half centuries of modern civilization in the Americas
has there existed--in any year, in any decade, in any generation in all that time--a greater
spirit of mutual understanding, of common helpfulness, and of devotion to the ideals of serf-government
than exists today in the twenty-one American Republics and their neighbor, the Dominion of
Canada. This policy of the good neighbor among the Americas is no longer a hope, no longer
an objective remaining to be accomplished. It is a fact, active, present, pertinent and effective.
In this achievement, every American Nation takes an understanding part. There is neither war,
nor rumor of war, nor desire for war. The inhabitants of this vast area, two hundred and fifty
million strong, spreading more than eight thousand miles from the Arctic to the Antarctic,
believe in, and propose to follow, the policy of the good neighbor. They wish with all their
heart that the rest of the world might do likewise.

The rest of the world--Ah! there is the rub.

Were I today to deliver an Inaugural Address to the people of the United States, I could not
limit my comments on world affairs to one paragraph. With much regret I should be compelled
to devote the greater part to world affairs. Since the summer of that same year of 1933, the
temper and the purposes of the rulers of many of the great populations in Europe and in Asia
have not pointed the way either to peace or to good-will among men. Not only have peace and
good-will among men grown more remote in those areas of the earth during this period, but a
point has been reached where the people of the Americas must take cognizance of growing ill-will,
of marked trends toward aggression, of increasing armaments, of shortening tempers--a situation
which has in it many of the elements that lead to the tragedy of general war.

On those other continents many Nations, principally the smaller peoples, if left to themselves,
would be content with their boundaries and willing to solve within themselves and in cooperation
with their neighbors their individual problems, both economic and social. The rulers of those
Nations, deep in their hearts, follow these peaceful and reasonable aspirations of their peoples.
These rulers must remain ever vigilant against the possibility today or tomorrow of invasion
or attack by the rulers of other peoples who fail to subscribe to the principles of bettering
the human race by peaceful means.

Within those other Nations--those which today must bear the primary, definite responsibility
for jeopardizing world peace--what hope lies? To say the least, there are grounds for pessimism.
It is idle for us or for others to preach that the masses of the people who constitute those
Nations which are dominated by the twin spirits of autocracy and aggression, are out of sympathy
with their rulers, that they are allowed no opportunity to express themselves, that they would
change things if they could.

That, unfortunately, is not so clear. It might be true that the masses of the people in those
Nations would change the policies of their Governments if they could be allowed full freedom
and full access to the processes of democratic government as we understand them. But they do
not have that access; lacking it they follow blindly and fervently the lead of those who seek
autocratic power.

Nations seeking expansion, seeking the rectification of injustices springing from former wars,
or seeking outlets for trade, for population or even for their own peaceful contributions to
the progress of civilization, fail to demonstrate that patience necessary to attain reasonable
and legitimate objectives by peaceful negotiation or by an appeal to the finer instincts of
world justice.

They have therefore impatiently reverted to the old belief in the law of the sword, or to the
fantastic conception that they, and they alone, are chosen to fulfill a mission and that all
the others among the billion and a half of human beings in the world must and shall learn from
and be subject to them.

I recognize and you will recognize that these words which I have chosen with deliberation will
not prove popular in any Nation that chooses to fit this shoe to its foot. Such sentiments,
however, will find sympathy and understanding in those Nations where the people themselves
are honestly desirous of peace but must constantly align themselves on one side or the other
in the kaleidoscopic jockeying for position which is characteristic of European and Asiatic
relations today. For the peace-loving Nations, and there are many of them, find that their
very identity depends on their moving and moving again on the chess board of international
politics.

I suggested in the spring of 1933 that 85 or 90 percent of all the people in the world were
content with the territorial limits of their respective Nations and were willing further to
reduce their armed forces if every other Nation in the world would agree to do likewise.

That is equally true today, and it is even more true today that world peace and world good-will
are blocked by only 10 or 15 percent of the world's population. That is why efforts to reduce
armies have thus far not only failed, but have been met by vastly increased armaments on land
and in the air. That is why even efforts to continue the existing limits on naval armaments
into the years to come show such little current success.

But the policy of the United States has been clear and consistent. We have sought with earnestness
in every possible way to limit world armaments and to attain the peaceful solution of disputes
among all Nations.

We have sought by every legitimate means to exert our moral influence against repression, against
intolerance, against autocracy and in favor of freedom of expression, equality before the law,
religious tolerance and popular rule.

In the field of commerce we have undertaken to encourage a more reasonable interchange of the
world's goods. In the field of international finance we have, so far as we are concerned, put
an end to dollar diplomacy, to money grabbing, to speculation for the benefit of the powerful
and the rich, at the expense of the small and the poor.

As a consistent part of a clear policy, the United States is following a twofold neutrality
toward any and all Nations which engage in wars that are not of immediate concern to the Americas.
First, we decline to encourage the prosecution of war by permitting belligerents to obtain
arms, ammunition or implements of war from the United States. Second, we seek to discourage
the use by belligerent Nations of any and all American products calculated to facilitate the
prosecution of a war in quantities over and above our normal exports of them in time of peace.

I trust that these objectives thus clearly and unequivocally stated will be carried forward
by cooperation between this Congress and the President.

I realize that I have emphasized to you the gravity of the situation which confronts the people
of the world. This emphasis is justified because of its importance to civilization and therefore
to the United States. Peace is jeopardized by the few and not by the many. Peace is threatened
by those who seek selfish power. The world has witnessed similar eras--as in the days when
petty kings and feudal barons were changing the map of Europe every fortnight, or when great
emperors and great kings were engaged in a mad scramble for colonial empire. We hope that we
are not again at the threshold of such an era. But if face it we must, then the United States
and the rest of the Americas can play but one role: through a well-ordered neutrality to do
naught to encourage the contest, through adequate defense to save ourselves from embroilment
and attack, and through example and all legitimate encouragement and assistance to persuade
other Nations to return to the ways of peace and good-will.

The evidence before us clearly proves that autocracy in world affairs endangers peace and that
such threats do not spring from those Nations devoted to the democratic ideal. If this be true
in world affairs, it should have the greatest weight in the determination of domestic policies.

Within democratic Nations the chief concern of the people is to prevent the continuance or
the rise of autocratic institutions that beget slavery at home and aggression abroad. Within
our borders, as in the world at large, popular opinion is at war with a power-seeking minority.

That is no new thing. It was fought out in the Constitutional Convention of 1787. From time
to time since then, the battle has been continued, under Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson,
Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.

In these latter years we have witnessed the domination of government by financial and industrial
groups, numerically small but politically dominant in the twelve years that succeeded the World
War. The present group of which I speak is indeed numerically small and, while it exercises
a large influence and has much to say in the world of business, it does not, I am confident,
speak the true sentiments of the less articulate but more important elements that constitute
real American business.

In March, 1933, I appealed to the Congress of the United States and to the people of the United
States in a new effort to restore power to those to whom it rightfully belonged. The response
to that appeal resulted in the writing of a new chapter in the history of popular government.
You, the members of the Legislative branch, and I, the Executive, contended for and established
a new relationship between Government and people.

What were the terms of that new relationship? They were an appeal from the clamor of many private
and selfish interests, yes, an appeal from the clamor of partisan interest, to the ideal of
the public interest. Government became the representative and the trustee of the public interest.
Our aim was to build upon essentially democratic institutions, seeking all the while the adjustment
of burdens, the help of the needy, the protection of the weak, the liberation of the exploited
and the genuine protection of the people's property.

It goes without saying that to create such an economic constitutional order, more than a single
legislative enactment was called for. We, you in the Congress and I as the Executive, had to
build upon a broad base. Now, after thirty-four months of work, we contemplate a fairly rounded
whole. We have returned the control of the Federal Government to the City of Washington.

To be sure, in so doing, we have invited battle. We have earned the hatred of entrenched greed.
The very nature of the problem that we faced made it necessary to drive some people from power
and strictly to regulate others. I made that plain when I took the oath of office in March,
1933. I spoke of the practices of the unscrupulous money-changers who stood indicted in the
court of public opinion. I spoke of the rulers of the exchanges of mankind's goods, who failed
through their own stubbornness and their own incompetence. I said that they had admitted their
failure and had abdicated.

Abdicated? Yes, in 1933, but now with the passing of danger they forget their damaging admissions
and withdraw their abdication.

They seek the restoration of their selfish power. They offer to lead us back round the same
old corner into the same old dreary street.

Yes, there are still determined groups that are intent upon that very thing. Rigorously held
up to popular examination, their true character presents itself. They steal the livery of great
national constitutional ideals to serve discredited special interests. As guardians and trustees
for great groups of individual stockholders they wrongfully seek to carry the property and
the interests entrusted to them into the arena of partisan politics. They seek--this minority
in business and industry--to control and often do control and use for their own purposes legitimate
and highly honored business associations; they engage in vast propaganda to spread fear and
discord among the people--they would "gang up" against the people's liberties.

The principle that they would instill into government if they succeed in seizing power is well
shown by the principles which many of them have instilled into their own affairs: autocracy
toward labor, toward stockholders, toward consumers, toward public sentiment. Autocrats in
smaller things, they seek autocracy in bigger things. "By their fruits ye shall know them."

If these gentlemen believe, as they say they believe, that the measures adopted by this Congress
and its predecessor, and carried out by this Administration, have hindered rather than promoted
recovery, let them be consistent. Let them propose to this Congress the complete repeal of
these measures. The way is open to such a proposal.

Let action be positive and not negative. The way is open in the Congress of the United States
for an expression of opinion by yeas and nays. Shall we say that values are restored and that
the Congress will, therefore, repeal the laws under which we have been bringing them back?
Shall we say that because national income has grown with rising prosperity, we shall repeal
existing taxes and thereby put off the day of approaching a balanced budget and of starting
to reduce the national debt? Shall we abandon the reasonable support and regulation of banking?
Shall we restore the dollar to its former gold content?

Shall we say to the farmer, "The prices for your products are in part restored. Now go and
hoe your own row?"

Shall we say to the home owners, "We have reduced your rates of interest. We have no further
concern with how you keep your home or what you pay for your money. That is your affair?"

Shall we say to the several millions of unemployed citizens who face the very problem of existence,
of getting enough to eat, "We will withdraw from giving you work. We will turn you back to
the charity of your communities and those men of selfish power who tell you that perhaps they
will employ you if the Government leaves them strictly alone?"

Shall we say to the needy unemployed, "Your problem is a local one except that perhaps the
Federal Government, as an act of mere generosity, will be willing to pay to your city or to
your county a few grudging dollars to help maintain your soup kitchens?"

Shall we say to the children who have worked all day in the factories, "Child labor is a local
issue and so are your starvation wages; something to be solved or left unsolved by the jurisdiction
of forty-eight States?"

Shall we say to the laborer, "Your right to organize, your relations with your employer have
nothing to do with the public interest; if your employer will not even meet with you to discuss
your problems and his, that is none of our affair?"

Shall we say to the unemployed and the aged, "Social security lies not within the province
of the Federal Government; you must seek relief elsewhere?"

Shall we say to the men and women who live in conditions of squalor in country and in city,
"The health and the happiness of you and your children are no concern of ours?"

Shall we expose our population once more by the repeal of laws which protect them against the
loss of their honest investments and against the manipulations of dishonest speculators? Shall
we abandon the splendid efforts of the Federal Government to raise the health standards of
the Nation and to give youth a decent opportunity through such means as the Civilian Conservation
Corps?

Members of the Congress, let these challenges be met. If this is what these gentlemen want,
let them say so to the Congress of the United States. Let them no longer hide their dissent
in a cowardly cloak of generality. Let them define the issue. We have been specific in our
affirmative action. Let them be specific in their negative attack.

But the challenge faced by this Congress is more menacing than merely a return to the past--bad
as that would be. Our resplendent economic autocracy does not want to return to that individualism
of which they prate, even though the advantages under that system went to the ruthless and
the strong. They realize that in thirty-four months we have built up new instruments of public
power. In the hands of a people's Government this power is wholesome and proper. But in the
hands of political puppets of an economic autocracy such power would provide shackles for the
liberties of the people. Give them their way and they will take the course of every autocracy
of the past--power for themselves, enslavement for the public.

Their weapon is the weapon of fear. I have said, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself."
That is as true today as it was in 1933. But such fear as they instill today is not a natural
fear, a normal fear; it is a synthetic, manufactured, poisonous fear that is being spread subtly,
expensively and cleverly by the same people who cried in those other days, "Save us, save us,
lest we perish."

I am confident that the Congress of the United States well understands the facts and is ready
to wage unceasing warfare against those who seek a continuation of that spirit of fear. The
carrying out of the laws of the land as enacted by the Congress requires protection until final
adjudication by the highest tribunal of the land. The Congress has the right and can find the
means to protect its own prerogatives.

We are justified in our present confidence. Restoration of national income, which shows continuing
gains for the third successive year, supports the normal and logical policies under which agriculture
and industry are returning to full activity. Under these policies we approach a balance of
the national budget. National income increases; tax receipts, based on that income, increase
without the levying of new taxes. That is why I am able to say to this, the Second Session
of the 74th Congress, that it is my belief based on existing laws that no new taxes, over and
above the present taxes, are either advisable or necessary.

National income increases; employment increases. Therefore, we can look forward to a reduction
in the number of those citizens who are in need. Therefore, also, we can anticipate a reduction
in our appropriations for relief.

In the light of our substantial material progress, in the light of the increasing effectiveness
of the restoration of popular rule, I recommend to the Congress that we advance; that we do
not retreat. I have confidence that you will not fail the people of the Nation whose mandate
you have already so faithfully fulfilled.

I repeat, with the same faith and the same determination, my words of March 4, 1933: "We face
the arduous days that lie before us in the warm courage of national unity; with a clear consciousness
of seeking old and precious moral values; with a clean satisfaction that comes from the stern
performance of duty by old and young alike. We aim at the assurance of a rounded and permanent
national life. We do not distrust the future of essential democracy."

I cannot better end this message on the state of the Union than by repeating the words of a
wise philosopher at whose feet I sat many, many years ago.

"What great crises teach all men whom the example and counsel of the brave inspire is the lesson:
Fear not, view all the tasks of life as sacred, have faith in the triumph of the ideal, give
daily all that you have to give, be loyal and rejoice whenever you find yourselves part of
a great ideal enterprise. You, at this moment, have the honor to belong to a generation whose
lips are touched by fire. You live in a land that now enjoys the blessings of peace. But let
nothing human be wholly alien to you. The human race now passes through one of its great crises.
New ideas, new issues--a new call for men to carry on the work of righteousness, of charity,
of courage, of patience, and of loyalty. . . . However memory bring back this moment to your
minds, let it be able to say to you: That was a great moment. It was the beginning of a new
era. . . . This world in its crisis called for volunteers, for men of faith in life, of patience
in service, of charity and of insight. I responded to the call however I could. I volunteered
to give myself to my Master--the cause of humane and brave living. I studied, I loved, I labored,
unsparingly and hopefully, to be worthy of my generation."

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 6, 1937

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress of the United States:

For the first time in our national history a President delivers his Annual Message to a new
Congress within a fortnight of the expiration of his term of office. While there is no change
in the Presidency this year, change will occur in future years. It is my belief that under
this new constitutional practice, the President should in every fourth year, in so far as seems
reasonable, review the existing state of our national affairs and outline broad future problems,
leaving specific recommendations for future legislation to be made by the President about to
be inaugurated.

At this time, however, circumstances of the moment compel me to ask your immediate consideration
of: First, measures extending the life of certain authorizations and powers which, under present
statutes, expire within a few weeks; second, an addition to the existing Neutrality Act to
cover specific points raised by the unfortunate civil strife in Spain; and, third, a deficiency
appropriation bill for which I shall submit estimates this week.

In March, 1933, the problems which faced our Nation and which only our national Government
had the resources to meet were more serious even than appeared on the surface.

It was not only that the visible mechanism of economic life had broken down. More disturbing
was the fact that long neglect of the needs of the underprivileged had brought too many of
our people to the verge of doubt as to the successful adaptation of our historic traditions
to the complex modern world. In that lay a challenge to our democratic form of Government itself.

Ours was the task to prove that democracy could be made to function in the world of today as
effectively as in the simpler world of a hundred years ago. Ours was the task to do more than
to argue a theory. The times required the confident answer of performance to those whose instinctive
faith in humanity made them want to believe that in the long run democracy would prove superior
to more extreme forms of Government as a process of getting action when action was wisdom,
without the spiritual sacrifices which those other forms of Government exact.

That challenge we met. To meet it required unprecedented activities under Federal leadership
to end abuses, to restore a large measure of material prosperity, to give new faith to millions
of our citizens who had been traditionally taught to expect that democracy would provide continuously
wider opportunity and continuously greater security in a world where science was continuously
making material riches more available to man.

In the many methods of attack with which we met these problems, you and I, by mutual understanding
and by determination to cooperate, helped to make democracy succeed by refusing to permit unnecessary
disagreement to arise between two of our branches of Government. That spirit of cooperation
was able to solve difficulties of extraordinary magnitude and ramification with few important
errors, and at a cost cheap when measured by the immediate necessities and the eventual results.

I look forward to a continuance of that cooperation in the next four years. I look forward
also to a continuance of the basis of that cooperation-- mutual respect for each other's proper
sphere of functioning in a democracy which is working well, and a common-sense realization
of the need for play in the joints of the machine.

On that basis, it is within the right of the Congress to determine which of the many new activities
shall be continued or abandoned, increased or curtailed.

On that same basis, the President alone has the responsibility for their administration. I
find that this task of Executive management has reached the point where our administrative
machinery needs comprehensive overhauling. I shall, therefore, shortly address the Congress
more fully in regard to modernizing and improving the Executive branch of the Government.

That cooperation of the past four years between the Congress and the President has aimed at
the fulfillment of a twofold policy: first, economic recovery through many kinds of assistance
to agriculture, industry and banking; and, second, deliberate improvement in the personal security
and opportunity of the great mass of our people.

The recovery we sought was not to be merely temporary. It was to be a recovery protected from
the causes of previous disasters. With that aim in view--to prevent a future similar crisis--you
and I joined in a series of enactments--safe banking and sound currency, the guarantee of bank
deposits, protection for the investor in securities, the removal of the threat of agricultural
surpluses, insistence on collective bargaining, the outlawing of sweat shops, child labor and
unfair trade practices, and the beginnings of security for the aged and the worker.

Nor was the recovery we sought merely a purposeless whirring of machinery. It is important,
of course, that every man and woman in the country be able to find work, that every factory
run, that business and farming as a whole earn profits. But Government in a democratic Nation
does not exist solely, or even primarily, for that purpose.

It is not enough that the wheels turn. They must carry us in the direction of a greater satisfaction
in life for the average man. The deeper purpose of democratic government is to assist as many
of its citizens as possible, especially those who need it most, to improve their conditions
of life, to retain all personal liberty which does not adversely affect their neighbors, and
to pursue the happiness which comes with security and an opportunity for recreation and culture.

Even with our present recovery we are far from the goal of that deeper purpose. There are far-reaching
problems still with us for which democracy must find solutions if it is to consider itself
successful.

For example, many millions of Americans still live in habitations which not only fail to provide
the physical benefits of modern civilization but breed disease and impair the health of future
generations. The menace exists not only in the slum areas of the very large cities, but in
many smaller cities as well. It exists on tens of thousands of farms, in varying degrees, in
every part of the country.

Another example is the prevalence of an un-American type of tenant farming. I do not suggest
that every farm family has the capacity to earn a satisfactory living on its own farm. But
many thousands of tenant farmers, indeed most of them, with some financial assistance and with
some advice and training, can be made self-supporting on land which can eventually belong to
them. The Nation would be wise to offer them that chance instead of permitting them to go along
as they do now, year after year, with neither future security as tenants nor hope of ownership
of their homes nor expectation of bettering the lot of their children.

Another national problem is the intelligent development of our social security system, the
broadening of the services it renders, and practical improvement in its operation. In many
Nations where such laws are in effect, success in meeting the expectations of the community
has come through frequent amendment of the original statute.

And, of course, the most far-reaching and the most inclusive problem of all is that of unemployment
and the lack of economic balance of which unemployment is at once the result and the symptom.
The immediate question of adequate relief for the needy unemployed who are capable of performing
useful work, I shall discuss with the Congress during the coming months. The broader task of
preventing unemployment is a matter of long-range evolutionary policy. To that we must continue
to give our best thought and effort. We cannot assume that immediate industrial and commercial
activity which mitigates present pressures justifies the national Government at this time in
placing the unemployment problem in a filing cabinet of finished business.

Fluctuations in employment are tied to all other wasteful fluctuations in our mechanism of
production and distribution. One of these wastes is speculation. In securities or commodities,
the larger the volume of speculation, the wider become the upward and downward swings and the
more certain the result that in the long run there will be more losses than gains in the underlying
wealth of the community.

And, as is now well known to all of us, the same net loss to society comes from reckless overproduction
and monopolistic underproduction of natural and manufactured commodities.

Overproduction, underproduction and speculation are three evil sisters who distill the troubles
of unsound inflation and disastrous deflation. It is to the interest of the Nation to have
Government help private enterprise to gain sound general price levels and to protect those
levels from wide perilous fluctuations. We know now that if early in 1931 Government had taken
the steps which were taken two and three years later, the depression would never have reached
the depths of the beginning of 1933.

Sober second thought confirms most of us in the belief that the broad objectives of the National
Recovery Act were sound. We know now that its difficulties arose from the fact that it tried
to do too much. For example, it was unwise to expect the same agency to regulate the length
of working hours, minimum wages, child labor and collective bargaining on the one hand and
the complicated questions of unfair trade practices and business controls on the other.

The statute of N.R.A. has been outlawed. The problems have not. They are still with us.

That decent conditions and adequate pay for labor, and just return for agriculture, can be
secured through parallel and simultaneous action by forty-eight States is a proven impossibility.
It is equally impossible to obtain curbs on monopoly, unfair trade practices and speculation
by State action alone. There are those who, sincerely or insincerely, still cling to State
action as a theoretical hope. But experience with actualities makes it clear that Federal laws
supplementing State laws are needed to help solve the problems which result from modern invention
applied in an industrialized Nation which conducts its business with scant regard to State lines.

During the past year there has been a growing belief that there is little fault to be found
with the Constitution of the United States as it stands today. The vital need is not an alteration
of our fundamental law, but an increasingly enlightened view with reference to it. Difficulties
have grown out of its interpretation; but rightly considered, it can be used as an instrument
of progress, and not as a device for prevention of action.

It is worth our while to read and reread the preamble of the Constitution, and Article I thereof
which confers the legislative powers upon the Congress of the United States. It is also worth
our while to read again the debates in the Constitutional Convention of one hundred and fifty
years ago. From such reading, I obtain the very definite thought that the members of that Convention
were fully aware that civilization would raise problems for the proposed new Federal Government,
which they themselves could not even surmise; and that it was their definite intent and expectation
that a liberal interpretation in the years to come would give to the Congress the same relative
powers over new national problems as they themselves gave to the Congress over the national
problems of their day.

In presenting to the Convention the first basic draft of the Constitution, Edmund Randolph
explained that it was the purpose "to insert essential principles only, lest the operation
of government should be clogged by rendering those provisions permanent and unalterable which
ought to be accommodated to times and events."

With a better understanding of our purposes, and a more intelligent recognition of our needs
as a Nation, it is not to be assumed that there will be prolonged failure to bring legislative
and judicial action into closer harmony. Means must be found to adapt our legal forms and our
judicial interpretation to the actual present national needs of the largest progressive democracy
in the modern world.

That thought leads to a consideration of world problems. To go no further back than the beginning
of this century, men and women everywhere were seeking conditions of life very different from
those which were customary before modern invention and modern industry and modern communications
had come into being. The World war, for all of its tragedy, encouraged these demands, and stimulated
action to fulfill these new desires.

Many national Governments seemed unable adequately to respond; and, often with the improvident
assent of the masses of the people themselves, new forms of government were set up with oligarchy
taking the place of democracy. In oligarchies, militarism has leapt forward, while in those
Nations which have retained democracy, militarism has waned.

I have recently visited three of our sister Republics in South America. The very cordial receptions
with which I was greeted were in tribute to democracy. To me the outstanding observation of
that visit was that the masses of the peoples of all the Americas are convinced that the democratic
form of government can be made to succeed and do not wish to substitute for it any other form
of government. They believe that democracies are best able to cope with the changing problems
of modern civilization within themselves, and that democracies are best able to maintain peace
among themselves.

The Inter-American Conference, operating on these fundamental principles of democracy, did
much to assure peace in this Hemisphere. Existing peace machinery was improved. New instruments
to maintain peace and eliminate causes of war were adopted. Wider protection of the interests
of the American Republics in the event of war outside the Western Hemisphere was provided.
Respect for, and observance of, international treaties and international law were strengthened.
Principles of liberal trade policies, as effective aids to the maintenance of peace, were reaffirmed.
The intellectual and cultural relationships among American Republics were broadened as a part
of the general peace program.

In a world unhappily thinking in terms of war, the representatives of twenty-one Nations sat
around a table, in an atmosphere of complete confidence and understanding, sincerely discussing
measures for maintaining peace. Here was a great and a permanent achievement directly affecting
the lives and security of the two hundred and fifty million human beings who dwell in this
Western Hemisphere. Here was an example which must have a wholesome effect upon the rest of
the world.

In a very real sense, the Conference in Buenos Aires sent forth a message on behalf of all
the democracies of the world to those Nations which live otherwise. Because such other Governments
are perhaps more spectacular, it was high time for democracy to assert itself.

Because all of us believe that our democratic form of government can cope adequately with modern
problems as they arise, it is patriotic as well as logical for us to prove that we can meet
new national needs with new laws consistent with an historic constitutional framework clearly
intended to receive liberal and not narrow interpretation.

The United States of America, within itself, must continue the task of making democracy succeed.

In that task the Legislative branch of our Government will, I am confident, continue to meet
the demands of democracy whether they relate to the curbing of abuses, the extension of help
to those who need help, or the better balancing of our interdependent economies.

So, too, the Executive branch of the Government must move forward in this task, and, at the
same time, provide better management for administrative action of all kinds.

The Judicial branch also is asked by the people to do its part in making democracy successful.
We do not ask the Courts to call non-existent powers into being, but we have a right to expect
that conceded powers or those legitimately implied shall be made effective instruments for
the common good.

The process of our democracy must not be imperiled by the denial of essential powers of free
government.

Your task and mine is not ending with the end of the depression. The people of the United States
have made it clear that they expect us to continue our active efforts in behalf of their peaceful
advancement.

In that spirit of endeavor and service I greet the 75th Congress at the beginning of this auspicious
New Year.

In spite of the determination of this Nation for peace, it has become clear that acts and policies
of nations in other parts of the world have far-reaching effects not only upon their immediate
neighbors but also on us.

I am thankful that I can tell you that our Nation is at peace. It has been kept at peace despite
provocations which in other days, because of their seriousness, could well have engendered
war. The people of the United States and the Government of the United States have shown capacity
for restraint and a civilized approach to the purposes of peace, while at the same time we
maintain the integrity inherent in the sovereignty of 130,000,000 people, lest we weaken or
destroy our influence for peace and jeopardize the sovereignty itself.

It is our traditional policy to live at peace with other nations. More than that, we have been
among the leaders in advocating the use of pacific methods of discussion and conciliation in
international differences. We have striven for the reduction of military forces.

But in a world of high tension and disorder, in a world where stable civilization is actually
threatened, it becomes the responsibility of each nation which strives for peace at home and
peace with and among others to be strong enough to assure the observance of those fundamentals
of peaceful solution of conflicts which are the only ultimate basis for orderly existence.

Resolute in our determination to respect the rights of others, and to command respect for the
rights of ourselves, we must keep ourselves adequately strong in self-defense.

There is a trend in the world away from the observance both of the letter and the spirit of
treaties. We propose to observe, as we have in the past, our own treaty obligations to the
limit; but we cannot be certain of reciprocity on the part of others.

Disregard for treaty obligations seems to have followed the surface trend away from the democratic
representative form of government. It would seem, therefore, that world peace through international
agreements is most safe in the hands of democratic representative governments--or, in other
words, peace is most greatly jeopardized in and by those nations where democracy has been discarded
or has never developed.

I have used the words "surface trend," for I still believe that civilized man increasingly
insists and in the long run will insist on genuine participation in his own government. Our
people believe that over the years democracies of the world will survive, and that democracy
will be restored or established in those nations which today know it not. In that faith lies
the future peace of mankind.

At home, conditions call for my equal candor. Events of recent months are new proof that we
cannot conduct a national government after the practice of 1787, or 1837 or 1887, for the obvious
reason that human needs and human desires are infinitely greater, infinitely more difficult
to meet than in any previous period in the life of our Republic. Hitherto it has been an acknowledged
duty of government to meet these desires and needs: nothing has occurred of late to absolve
the Congress, the Courts or the President from that task. It faces us as squarely, as insistently,
as in March, 1933.

Much of trouble in our own lifetime has sprung from a long period of inaction--from ignoring
what fundamentally was happening to us, and from a time-serving unwillingness to face facts
as they forced themselves upon us.

Our national life rests on two nearly equal producing forces, agriculture and industry, each
employing about one-third of our citizens. The other third transports and distributes the products
of the first two, or performs special services for the whole.

The first great force, agriculture--and with it the production of timber, minerals and other
natural resources--went forward feverishly and thoughtlessly until nature rebelled and we saw
deserts encroach, floods destroy, trees disappear and soil exhausted.

At the same time we have been discovering that vast numbers of our farming population live
in a poverty more abject than that of many of the farmers of Europe whom we are wont to call
peasants; that the prices of our products of agriculture are too often dependent on speculation
by non-farming groups; and that foreign nations, eager to become self-sustaining or ready to
put virgin land under the plough are no longer buying our surpluses of cotton and wheat and
lard and tobacco and fruit as they had before.

Since 1933 we have knowingly faced a choice of three remedies. First, to cut our cost of farm
production below that of other nations--an obvious impossibility in many crops today unless
we revert to human slavery or its equivalent.

Second, to make the government the guarantor of farm prices and the underwriter of excess farm
production without limit--a course which would bankrupt the strongest government in the world
in a decade.

Third, to place the primary responsibility directly on the farmers themselves, under the principle
of majority rule, so that they may decide, with full knowledge of the facts of surpluses, scarcities,
world markets and domestic needs, what the planting of each crop should be in order to maintain
a reasonably adequate supply which will assure a minimum adequate price under the normal processes
of the law of supply and demand.

That means adequacy of supply but not glut. It means adequate reserves against the day of drought.
It is shameless misrepresentation to call this a policy of scarcity. It is in truth insurance
before the fact, instead of government subsidy after the fact.

Any such plan for the control of excessive surpluses and the speculation they bring has two
enemies. There are those well meaning theorists who harp on the inherent right of every free
born American to do with his land what he wants--to cultivate it well--or badly; to conserve
his timber by cutting only the annual increment thereof--or to strip it clean, let fire burn
the slash, and erosion complete the ruin; to raise only one crop--and if that crop fails, to
look for food and support from his neighbors or his government.

That, I assert is not an inherent right of citizenship. For if a man farms his land to the
waste of the soil or the trees, he destroys not only his own assets but the Nation's assets
as well. Or if by his methods he makes himself, year after year, a financial hazard of the
community and the government, he becomes not only a social problem but an economic menace.
The day has gone by when it could be claimed that government has no interest in such ill-considered
practices and no right through representative methods to stop them.

The other group of enemies is perhaps less well-meaning. It includes those who for partisan
purposes oppose each and every practical effort to help the situation, and also those who make
money from undue fluctuations in crop prices.

I gladly note that measures which seek to initiate a government program for a balanced agriculture
are now in conference between the two Houses of the Congress. In their final consideration,
I hope for a sound consistent measure which will keep the cost of its administration within
the figure of current government expenditures in aid of agriculture. The farmers of this Nation
know that a balanced output can be put into effect without excessive cost and with the cooperation
of the great majority of them.

If this balance can be created by an all-weather farm program, our farm population will soon
be assured of relatively constant purchasing power. From this will flow two other practical
results: the consuming public will be protected against excessive food and textile prices,
and the industries of the Nation and their workers will find a steadier demand for wares sold
to the agricultural third of our people.

To raise the purchasing power of the farmer is, however, not enough. It will not stay raised
if we do not also raise the purchasing power of that third of the Nation which receives its
income from industrial employment. Millions of industrial workers receive pay so low that they
have little buying power. Aside from the undoubted fact that they thereby suffer great human
hardship, they are unable to buy adequate food and shelter, to maintain health or to buy their
share of manufactured goods.

We have not only seen minimum wage and maximum hour provisions prove their worth economically
and socially under government auspices in 1933, 1934 and 1935, but the people of this country,
by an overwhelming vote, are in favor of having the Congress--this Congress--put a floor below
which industrial wages shall not fall, and a ceiling beyond which the hours of industrial labor
shall not rise.

Here again let us analyze the opposition. A part of it is sincere in believing that an effort
thus to raise the purchasing power of lowest paid industrial workers is not the business of
the Federal Government. Others give "lip service" to a general objective, but do not like any
specific measure that is proposed. In both cases it is worth our while to wonder whether some
of these opponents are not at heart opposed to any program for raising the wages of the underpaid
or reducing the hours of the overworked.

Another group opposes legislation of this type on the ground that cheap labor will help their
locality to acquire industries and outside capital, or to retain industries which today are
surviving only because of existing low wages and long hours. It has been my thought that, especially
during these past five years, this Nation has grown away from local or sectional selfishness
and toward national patriotism and unity. I am disappointed by some recent actions and by some
recent utterances which sound like the philosophy of half a century ago.

There are many communities in the United States where the average family income is pitifully
low. It is in those communities that we find the poorest educational facilities and the worst
conditions of health. Why? It is not because they are satisfied to live as they do. It is because
those communities have the lowest per capita wealth and income; therefore, the lowest ability
to pay taxes; and, therefore, inadequate functioning of local government.

Such communities exist in the East, in the Middle West, in the Far West, and in the South.
Those who represent such areas in every part of the country do their constituents ill service
by blocking efforts to raise their incomes, their property values and, therefore, their whole
scale of living. In the long run, the profits from Child labor, low pay and overwork enure
not to the locality or region where they exist but to the absentee owners who have sent their
capital into these exploited communities to gather larger profits for themselves. Indeed, new
enterprises and new industries which bring permanent wealth will come more readily to those
communities which insist on good pay and reasonable hours, for the simple reason that there
they will find a greater industrial efficiency and happier workers.

No reasonable person seeks a complete uniformity in wages in every part of the United States;
nor does any reasonable person seek an immediate and drastic change from the lowest pay to
the highest pay. We are seeking, of course, only legislation to end starvation wages and intolerable
hours; more desirable wages are and should continue to be the product of collective bargaining.

Many of those who represent great cities have shown their understanding of the necessity of
helping the agricultural third of the Nation. I hope that those who represent constituencies
primarily agricultural will not underestimate the importance of extending like aid to the industrial
third.

Wage and hour legislation, therefore, is a problem which is definitely before this Congress
for action. It is an essential part of economic recovery. It has the support of an overwhelming
majority of our people in every walk of life. They have expressed themselves through the ballot
box.

Again I revert to the increase of national purchasing power as an underlying necessity of the
day. If you increase that purchasing power for the farmers and for the industrial workers,
especially for those in both groups who have least of it today, you will increase the purchasing
power of the final third of our population--those who transport and distribute the products
of farm and factory, and those of the professions who serve all groups. I have tried to make
clear to you, and through you to the people of the United States, that this is an urgency which
must be met by complete and not by partial action.

If it is met, if the purchasing power of the Nation as a whole--in other words, the total of
the Nation's income--can be still further increased, other happy results will flow from such
increase.

We have raised the Nation's income from thirty-eight billion dollars in the year 1932 to about
sixty-eight billion dollars in the year 1937. Our goal, our objective is to raise it to ninety
or one hundred billion dollars.

We have heard much about a balanced budget, and it is interesting to note that many of those
who have pleaded for a balanced budget as the sole need now come to me to plead for additional
government expenditures at the expense of unbalancing the budget. As the Congress is fully
aware, the annual deficit, large for several years, has been declining the last fiscal year
and this. The proposed budget for 1939, which I shall shortly send to the Congress, will exhibit
a further decrease in the deficit, though not a balance between income and outgo.

To many who have pleaded with me for an immediate balancing of the budget, by a sharp curtailment
or even elimination of government functions, I have asked the question: "What present expenditures
would you reduce or eliminate?" And the invariable answer has been "that is not my business--I
know nothing of the details, but I am sure that it could be done." That is not what you or
I would call helpful citizenship.

On only one point do most of them have a suggestion. They think that relief for the unemployed
by the giving of work is wasteful, and when I pin them down I discover that at heart they are
actually in favor of substituting a dole in place of useful work. To that neither I nor, I
am confident, the Senators and Representatives in the Congress will ever consent.

I am as anxious as any banker or industrialist or business man or investor or economist that
the budget of the United States Government be brought into balance as quickly as possible.
But I lay down certain conditions which seem reasonable and which I believe all should accept.

The first condition is that we continue the policy of not permitting any needy American who
can and is willing to work to starve because the Federal Government does not provide the work.

The second is that the Congress and the Executive join hands in eliminating or curtailing any
Federal activity which can be eliminated or curtailed or even postponed without harming necessary
government functions or the safety of the Nation from a national point of view.

The third is to raise the purchasing power of the Nation to the point that the taxes on this
purchasing power--or, in other words, on the Nation's income--will be sufficient to meet the
necessary expenditures of the national government.

I have hitherto stated that, in my judgment, the expenditures of the national government cannot
be cut much below seven billion dollars a year without destroying essential functions or letting
people starve. That sum can be raised and will be cheerfully provided by the American people,
if we can increase the Nation's income to a point well beyond the present level.

This does not mean that as the Nation's income goes up the Federal expenditures should rise
in proportion. On the contrary, the Congress and the Executive should use every effort to hold
the normal Federal expenditures to approximately the present level, thus making it possible,
with an increase in the Nation's income and the resulting increase in tax receipts, not only
to balance future budgets but to reduce the debt.

In line with this policy fall my former recommendations for the reorganization and improvement
of the administrative structure of the government, both for immediate Executive needs and for
the planning of future national needs. I renew those recommendations.

In relation to tax changes, three things should be kept in mind. First, the total sum to be
derived by the Federal Treasury must not be decreased as a result of any changes in schedules.
Second, abuses by individuals or corporations designed to escape tax-paying by using various
methods of doing business, corporate and otherwise--abuses which we have sought, with great
success, to end--must not be restored. Third, we should rightly change certain provisions where
they are proven to work definite hardship, especially on the small business men of the Nation.
But, speculative income should not be favored over earned income.

It is human nature to argue that this or that tax is responsible for every ill. It is human
nature on the part of those who pay graduated taxes to attack all taxes based on the principle
of ability to pay. These are the same complainants who for a generation blocked the imposition
of a graduated income tax. They are the same complainants who would impose the type of flat
sales tax which places the burden of government more on those least able to pay and less on
those most able to pay.

Our conclusion must be that while proven hardships should be corrected, they should not be
corrected in such a way as to restore abuses already terminated or to shift a greater burden
to the less fortunate.

This subject leads naturally into the wider field of the public attitude toward business. The
objective of increasing the purchasing power of the farming third, the industrial third and
the service third of our population presupposes the cooperation of what we call capital and labor.

Capital is essential; reasonable earnings on capital are essential; but misuse of the powers
of capital or selfish suspension of the employment of capital must be ended, or the capitalistic
system will destroy itself through its own abuses.

The overwhelming majority of business men and bankers intend to be good citizens. Only a small
minority have displayed poor citizenship by engaging in practices which are dishonest or definitely
harmful to society. This statement is straightforward and true. No person in any responsible
place in the Government of the United States today has ever taken any position contrary to it.

But, unfortunately for the country, when attention is called to, or attack is made on specific
misuses of capital, there has been a deliberate purpose on the part of the condemned minority
to distort the criticism into an attack on all capital. That is wilful deception but it does
not long deceive.

If attention is called to, or attack made on, certain wrongful business practices, there are
those who are eager to call it "an attack on all business." That, too, is wilful deception
that will not long deceive. Let us consider certain facts:

There are practices today which most people believe should be ended. They include tax avoidance
through corporate and other methods, which I have previously mentioned; excessive capitalization,
investment write-ups and security manipulations; price rigging and collusive bidding in defiance
of the spirit of the antitrust laws by methods which baffle prosecution under the present statutes.
They include high-pressure salesmanship which creates cycles of overproduction within given
industries and consequent recessions in production until such time as the surplus is consumed;
the use of patent laws to enable larger corporations to maintain high prices and withhold from
the public the advantages of the progress of science; unfair competition which drives the smaller
producer out of business locally, regionally or even on a national scale; intimidation of local
or state government to prevent the enactment of laws for the protection of labor by threatening
to move elsewhere; the shifting of actual production from one locality or region to another
in pursuit of the cheapest wage scale.

The enumeration of these abuses does not mean that business as a whole is guilty of them. Again,
it is deception that will not long deceive to tell the country that an attack on these abuses
is an attack on business.

Another group of problems affecting business, which cannot be termed specific abuses, gives
us food for grave thought about the future. Generically such problems arise out of the concentration
of economic control to the detriment of the body politic--control of other people's money,
other people's labor, other people's lives.

In many instances such concentrations cannot be justified on the ground of operating efficiency,
but have been created for the sake of securities profits, financial control, the suppression
of competition and the ambition for power over others. In some lines of industry a very small
numerical group is in such a position of influence that its actions are of necessity followed
by the other units operating in the same field.

That such influences operate to control banking and finance is equally true, in spite of the
many efforts, through Federal legislation, to take such control out of the hands of a small
group. We have but to talk with hundreds of small bankers throughout the United States to realize
that irrespective of local conditions, they are compelled in practice to accept the policies
laid down by a small number of the larger banks in the Nation. The work undertaken by Andrew
Jackson and Woodrow Wilson is not finished yet.

The ownership of vast properties or the organization of thousands of workers creates a heavy
obligation of public service. The power should not be sought or sanctioned unless the responsibility
is accepted as well. The man who seeks freedom from such responsibility in the name of individual
liberty is either fooling himself or trying to cheat his fellow men. He wants to eat the fruits
of orderly society without paying for them.

As a Nation we have rejected any radical revolutionary program. For a permanent correction
of grave weaknesses in our economic system we have relied on new applications of old democratic
processes. It is not necessary to recount what has been accomplished in preserving the homes
and livelihood of millions of workers on farms and in cities, in reconstructing a sound banking
and credit system, in reviving trade and industry, in reestablishing security of life and property.
All we need today is to look upon the fundamental, sound economic conditions to know that this
business recession causes more perplexity than fear on the part of most people and to contrast
our prevailing mental attitude with the terror and despair of five years ago.

Furthermore, we have a new moral climate in America. That means that we ask business and finance
to recognize that fact, to cure such inequalities as they can cure without legislation but
to join their government in the enactment of legislation where the ending of abuses and the
steady functioning of our economic system calls for government assistance. The Nation has no
obligation to make America safe either for incompetent business men or for business men who
fail to note the trend of the times and continue the use of machinery of economics and practices
of finance as outworn as the cotton spindle of 1870.

Government can be expected to cooperate in every way with the business of the Nation provided
the component parts of business abandon practices which do not belong to this day and age,
and adopt price and production policies appropriate to the times.

In regard to the relationship of government to certain processes of business, to which I have
referred, it seems clear to me that existing laws undoubtedly require reconstruction. I expect,
therefore, to address the Congress in a special message on this subject, and I hope to have
the help of business in the efforts of government to help business.

I have spoken of labor as another essential in the three great groups of the population in
raising the Nation's income. Definite strides in collective bargaining have been made and the
right of labor to organize has been nationally accepted. Nevertheless in the evolution of the
process difficult situations have arisen in localities and among groups. Unfortunate divisions
relating to jurisdiction among the workers themselves have retarded production within given
industries and have, therefore, affected related industries. The construction of homes and
other buildings has been hindered in some localities not only by unnecessarily high prices
for materials but also by certain hourly wage scales.

For economic and social reasons our principal interest for the near future lies along two lines:
first, the immediate desirability of increasing the wages of the lowest paid groups in all
industry; and, second, in thinking in terms of regularizing the work of the individual worker
more greatly through the year--in other words, in thinking more in terms of the worker's total
pay for a period of a whole year rather than in terms of his remuneration by the hour or by
the day.

In the case of labor as in the case of capital, misrepresentation of the policy of the government
of the United States is deception which will not long deceive. In both cases we seek cooperation.
In every case power and responsibility must go hand in hand.

I have spoken of economic causes which throw the Nation's income out of balance; I have spoken
of practices and abuses which demand correction through the cooperation of capital and labor
with the government. But no government can help the destinies of people who insist in putting
sectional and class consciousness ahead of general weal. There must be proof that sectional
and class interests are prepared more greatly than they are today to be national in outlook.

A government can punish specific acts of spoliation; but no government can conscript cooperation.
We have improved some matters by way of remedial legislation. But where in some particulars
that legislation has failed we cannot be sure whether it fails because some of its details
are unwise or because it is being sabotaged. At any rate, we hold our objectives and our principles
to be sound. We will never go back on them.

Government has a final responsibility for the well-being of its citizenship. If private cooperative
endeavor fails to provide work for willing hands and relief for the unfortunate, those suffering
hardship from no fault of their own have a right to call upon the Government for aid; and a
government worthy of its name must make fitting response.

It is the opportunity and the duty of all those who have faith in democratic methods as applied
in industry, in agriculture and in business, as well as in the field of politics, to do their
utmost to cooperate with government--without regard to political affiliation, special interests
or economic prejudices--in whatever program may be sanctioned by the chosen representatives
of the people.

That presupposes on the part of the representatives of the people, a program, its enactment
and its administration.

Not because of the pledges of party programs alone, not because of the clear policies of the
past five years, but chiefly because of the need of national unity in ending mistakes of the
past and meeting the necessities of today, we must carry on. I do not propose to let the people
down.

I am sure the Congress of the United States will not let the people down.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 4, 1939

Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Senate and the Congress:

In Reporting on the state of the nation, I have felt it necessary on previous occasions to
advise the Congress of disturbance abroad and of the need of putting our own house in order
in the face of storm signals from across the seas. As this Seventy-sixth Congress opens there
is need for further warning.

A war which threatened to envelop the world in flames has been averted; but it has become increasingly
clear that world peace is not assured.

All about us rage undeclared wars--military and economic. All about us grow more deadly armaments--military
and economic. All about us are threats of new aggression military and economic.

Storms from abroad directly challenge three institutions indispensable to Americans, now as
always. The first is religion. It is the source of the other two--democracy and international
good faith.

Religion, by teaching man his relationship to God, gives the individual a sense of his own
dignity and teaches him to respect himself by respecting his neighbors.

Democracy, the practice of self-government, is a covenant among free men to respect the rights
and liberties of their fellows.

International good faith, a sister of democracy, springs from the will of civilized nations
of men to respect the rights and liberties of other nations of men.

In a modern civilization, all three--religion, democracy and international good faith--complement
and support each other.

Where freedom of religion has been attacked, the attack has come from sources opposed to democracy.
Where democracy has been overthrown, the spirit of free worship has disappeared. And where
religion and democracy have vanished, good faith and reason in international affairs have given
way to strident ambition and brute force.

An ordering of society which relegates religion, democracy and good faith among nations to
the background can find no place within it for the ideals of the Prince of Peace. The United
States rejects such an ordering, and retains its ancient faith.

There comes a time in the affairs of men when they must prepare to defend, not their homes
alone, but the tenets of faith and humanity on which their churches, their governments and
their very civilization are founded. The defense of religion, of democracy and of good faith
among nations is all the same fight. To save one we must now make up our minds to save all.

We know what might happen to us of the United States if the new philosophies of force were
to encompass the other continents and invade our own. We, no more than other nations, can afford
to be surrounded by the enemies of our faith and our humanity. Fortunate it is, therefore,
that in this Western Hemisphere we have, under a common ideal of democratic government, a rich
diversity of resources and of peoples functioning together in mutual respect and peace.

That Hemisphere, that peace, and that ideal we propose to do our share in protecting against
storms from any quarter. Our people and our resources are pledged to secure that protection.
From that determination no American flinches.

This by no means implies that the American Republics disassociate themselves from the nations
of other continents. It does not mean the Americas against the rest of the world. We as one
of the Republics reiterate our willingness to help the cause of world peace. We stand on our
historic offer to take counsel with all other nations of the world to the end that aggression
among them be terminated, that the race of armaments cease and that commerce be renewed.

But the world has grown so small and weapons of attack so swift that no nation can be safe
in its will to peace so long as any other powerful nation refuses to settle its grievances
at the council table.

For if any government bristling with implements of war insists on policies of force, weapons
of defense give the only safety.

In our foreign relations we have learned from the past what not to do. From new wars we have
learned what we must do.

We have learned that effective timing of defense, and the distant points from which attacks
may be launched are completely different from what they were twenty years ago.

We have learned that survival cannot be guaranteed by arming after the attack begins--for there
is new range and speed to offense.

We have learned that long before any overt military act, aggression begins with preliminaries
of propaganda, subsidized penetration, the loosening of ties of good will, the stirring of
prejudice and the incitement to disunion.

We have learned that God-fearing democracies of the world which observe the sanctity of treaties
and good faith in their dealings with other nations cannot safely be indifferent to international
lawlessness anywhere. They cannot forever let pass, without effective protest, acts of aggression
against sister nations--acts which automatically undermine all of us.

Obviously they must proceed along practical, peaceful lines. But the mere fact that we rightly
decline to intervene with arms to prevent acts of aggression does not mean that we must act
as if there were no aggression at all. Words may be futile, but war is not the only means of
commanding a decent respect for the opinions of mankind. There are many methods short of war,
but stronger and more effective than mere words, of bringing home to aggressor governments
the aggregate sentiments of our own people.

At the very least, we can and should avoid any action, or any lack of action, which will encourage,
assist or build up an aggressor. We have learned that when we deliberately try to legislate
neutrality, our neutrality laws may operate unevenly and unfairly--may actually give aid to
an aggressor and deny it to the victim. The instinct of self-preservation should warn us that
we ought not to let that happen any more.

And we have learned something else--the old, old lesson that probability of attack is mightily
decreased by the assurance of an ever ready defense. Since 1931, nearly eight years ago, world
events of thunderous import have moved with lightning speed. During these eight years many
of our people clung to the hope that the innate decency of mankind would protect the unprepared
who showed their innate trust in mankind. Today we are all wiser--and sadder.

Under modern conditions what we mean by "adequate defense"--a policy subscribed to by all of
us--must be divided into three elements. This fact would frequently render the enumeration of the
altered organs quite unreliable.

For these reasons I have chosen a group of arbitrary stages in order to express the degree of deviation
for a given lot of plants. The limits were chosen so as to be sufficiently
trustworthy and easy to ascertain.

In each group the members could be counted, and a series of figures was reached by this means which
allowed of a further comparison of the competing sets of plants.

It should be stated that in such experiments and especially in the case of such a showy criterion
as the pistilloid heads afford after the time of flowering is over,
the inspection of the controlling beds at once indicates the result
of the experiment.

Even a hasty survey is in most cases sufficient to get a definite conclusion. Where this is
not the case, the counting of the individuals of the various groups often does not add to
the evidence, and the result remains uncertain. On the other hand, the impression made by the groups
of plants on the experimenter and on his casual visitors, cannot well be conveyed to the readers
of his account by [377] other means than by figures.

For this reason the result of the experiments is expressed in this way.

I made six groups. The first includes the cases where the whole circle is reduced to small rudiments.
The second shows 1-10 secondary capsules. The two following constitute half a crown around
the central fruit, the third going up to this limit, the fourth going
from this limit to a nearly filled circle.

Wholly filled circles of secondary capsules without gaps give the two last degrees, the fifth
requiring only continuity of the circle, the sixth displaying a large and bright crown all around
the central head. The fifth group ordinarily includes from 90-100 altered stamens, while the
sixth has from 100-150 of these deviating parts.

In ordinary cultures the third and fourth group, with their interrupted crowns, predominate.
Large crowns are rare and flowers which at first sight seem to be
wholly normal, occur only under circumstances definitely known to
be unfavorable to growth, and to the development of the anomaly.

Having reached by this means a very simple and easy method of stating the facts shown by equal
lots under contrasting influences, we will now make use of it to
inquire into the relation [378] of this exceptionally high degree
of variability to the inner and outer conditions of life.

As a rule, all experiments show the existence of such a relation.

Unfavorable conditions reduce the numbers of altered stamens, favorable
circumstances raise it to its highest point.

This holds true for lots including hundreds of specimens, but also
for the sundry heads of one bed, and often for one single plant.

We may compare the terminal flower with those of the lateral branches on a plant, and when
no special influences disturb the experiment, the terminal head ordinarily
bears the richest crown.

If the first has more than 100 metamorphosed parts, the latter have
often less than 50 on the same plant.

In poor soil, terminal heads are often reduced to 10-20 monstrous organs, and in such cases I found
the lateral flowers of the same plants ordinarily with less than
10 altered stamens.

In some cases I allowed the branches of the third and fourth degree, in other words, the side
twigs of the first branches of my selected plants to grow out and produce flowers in the fall.
They were ordinarily weak, sometimes very small, having only 5-9 stigmas on their central fruit.
Secondary capsules were not seen on such flowers, even when the experiment
was repeated on a [379] somewhat larger scale and during a series
of years.

Among the same lot of plants individual differences almost always occur. They are partly due
to inequalities already existing in the seeds, and partly to the diversity of the various parts
of the same bed. Some of the plants become stout and have large terminal heads. Others remain very
weak, with a slender stem, small leaves and undersized flowers.

The height and thickness of the stem, the growth of the foliage and of the axillary buds are
the most obvious measures of the individual strength of the plant. The development of the terminal
flower and the size of its ovary manifestly depends largely on this individual strength, as
may be seen at once by the inspection of any bed of opium-poppies.

Now this size of the head can easily be measured, either by its height or circumference, or by
its weight. Moreover we can arrange them into a series according to their size. If we do this with
the polycephalous variety, the relation between individual strength and degree of metamorphosis
at once becomes manifest. The largest heads have the brightest crowns, and the number of supernumerary
carpels diminishes in nearly exact proportion to the size of the
fruits.

Fruits with less than 50 altered stamens weighed on an average 5 grams, [380] those with 50-100
such organs 7 grams and those with a bright crown 10 grams, the appendices being removed before
the weighing. Corresponding results have been reached by the comparison
of the height of the capsules with their abnormal surroundings.

The degree of development of the monstrosity is shown by this observation to be directly dependent
on, and in a sense proportionate to the individual strength of the
plant.

The differences between the specimens grown from a single lot of seeds, for instance from the
seeds of one self-fertilized capsule are, as I have said, partly due to the divergences which are
always present in a bed, even if the utmost care has been taken to
make it as uniform as possible.

These local differences are ordinarily underrated and overlooked, and it is often considered to be
sufficient to cultivate small lots of plants under apparently similar conditions on neighboring
beds, to be justified in imputing all the observed deviations of
the plants to hereditary inequalities.

This of course is true for large lots, whenever the averages only are compared. In smaller experiments
the external conditions of the single individuals should always be considered carefully. Lots
of one or two square meters suffice for such comparisons, but smaller lots are always subject
to chances and [381] possibilities, which should never be left out
of consideration.

Therefore I will now point out some circumstances, which are ordinarily different on various parts
of one and the same bed.

In the first place comes the inequality of the seeds themselves.

Some of them will germinate earlier and others later.

Those that display their cotyledons on a sunny day will be able to begin at once with the production
of organic food. Others appear in bad weather, and will thus be retarded in their development.
These effects are of a cumulative nature as the young plants must profit by every hour of sunshine,
according to the size of the cotyledons. Any inequality between two young seedlings is apt
to be increased by this cumulative effect.

The same holds good for the soil of the bed.

It is simply impossible to mix the manure so equally that all individuals receive the same
amount of it from the very beginning. I am in the habit of using manures in a dry and pulverized
condition, of giving definite quantities to each square meter, and of taking the utmost care
to get equal distribution and mixture with the soil, always being present myself during this
most important operation.

Nevertheless it is impossible to make the nourishment exactly equal
for all the plants of even a small bed.

[382] Any inequality from this cause will increase the difference in the size of the young leaves,
augment the inequality of their production of organic matter and for this reason go on in an ever
increasing rate.

Rain and spraying, or on the other hand dryness of the soil, have still greater consequences. The slightest
unevenness of the surface will cause some spots to dry rapidly and others to retain moisture during
hours and even sometimes during days.

Seeds, germinating in such little moist depressions grow regularly
and rapidly, while those on the dryer elevations may be retarded for
hours and days, before fully unfurling their seed-leaves.

After heavy rains these differences may be observed to increase continually, and in some instances
I found that plants were produced only on the wet spots, while the
dry places remained perfectly bare.

From this the wet spots seem to be the most favorable, but on the
other hand, seeds may come to germinate there too numerously and so
closely that the young plants will be crowded together and find neither
space nor light enough, for a free and perfect development.

The advantage may change to disadvantage in this way unless the superfluous individuals are weeded
out in due time.

[383] From all these and other reasons some plants will be favored
by the external conditions from the beginning, while others will be
retarded, and the effects will gradually increase until at last they
become sufficient to account for a considerable amount of individual
variability.

There is no doubt that the difference in the strength of the plant and in the size of the capsules,
going from 5-10 grams for a single fruit, are for the most part due to these unavoidable circumstances.
I have tried all conceivable means to find remedies for these difficulties,
but only by sowing my seeds in pans in a glass-house have I been able
to reach more constant and equal conditions.

But unfortunately such a method requires the planting out of the young seedlings in the beginning
of the summer, and this operation is not without danger for opium-poppies, and especially not without
important influence on the monstrosity of the pistilloid variety. Consequently my sowings
of this plant have nearly always been made in the beds.

In order to show how great the influence of all these little things
may become, we only have to make two sowings on neighboring beds and
under conditions which have carefully been made as equal as possible.

If we use for these controlling experiments seeds from one and the
same capsule, it will soon become evident that [384] no exact similarity
between the two lots may be expected.

Such differences as may be seen in these cases are therefore never to be considered of value
when comparing two lots of seeds of different origin, or under varying
conditions.

No amount of accuracy in the estimation of the results of a trial, or in the counting out of the
several degrees of the anomaly, is adequate to overcome the inaccuracy
resulting from these differences.

It is certainly of great importance to have a correct conception in regard to the influence of
the surrounding conditions on the growth of a plant and on the development of the attribute
we are to deal with. No less important is the question of the sensibility
of the plants to these factors.

Obviously this sensibility must not be expected to remain the same during the entire life-period,
and periods of stronger and of weaker responses may be discerned.

In the first place it is evident that external or inner influences
are able to change the direction of the development of an organ only
so long as this development is not yet fully finished.

In the young flower-bud of the pistilloid poppy there must evidently be some moment in which
it is definitely decided whether the young stamens will grow out normally or become metamorphosed
into secondary pistils. From this [385] moment no further change of external conditions is able
to produce a corresponding change in the degree of the anomaly. The individual strength of the
whole plant may still be affected in a more or less manifest degree, but the number of converted
stamens of the flower has been definitely fixed. The sensitive period has terminated.

In order to determine the exact moment of this termination of the
period of sensibility, I have followed the development of the flower
buds during the first weeks of the life of the young plants.

The terminal flower may already be seen in young plants only seven weeks old, with a stem not
exceeding 5-6 cm. in height and a flower-bud with a diameter of nearly 1 mm., in which the
stamens and secondary pistils are already discernible, but still in the condition of small rounded
protuberances on the thalamus. Though it is not possible at that time to observe any difference
between the future normal and converted stamens, it does not seem doubtful that the development
is so far advanced, that in the inner tissues the decision has already definitely been taken.
In the next few days this decision rapidly becomes visible, and the different parts of the normal
stamens and the metamorphosed carpels soon become apparent. From this observation it [386]
can be inferred that the sensitive period of the anomaly is limited
for the terminal flower-head, to the first few weeks of the life of
the young plants.

The secondary heads manifestly leave this period at a somewhat later stage.

In order to prove the accuracy of this conclusion I have tried to
injure the anomalies after the expiration of the first six or seven
weeks.

I deprived them of their leaves, and damaged them in different ways. I succeeded in making
them very weak and slender, without being able to diminish the number of the supernumerary carpels.
The proportionality of the size of the central fruit and the development
of the surrounding crown can often be modified or even destroyed by
this means, and the apparent exceptions from this rule, which are
often observed, may find their explanation in this way.

In the second place I have tried to change the development of the
anomaly during the period of sensibility, and even in the last part
of it.

This experiment succeeded fully when carried out within the fifth or sixth week after the beginning
of the germination. As means of injury I transplanted the young plants. To this end I sowed
my seeds in pans in unmanured soil, planted them out in little pots with richly prepared earth,
grew them in these during a few weeks and afterwards transferred them to the [387] beds, taking
care that the pats were removed, but the balls of earth not broken.

In consequence of this treatment the plants became very large and strong, with luxuriant foliage
and relatively numerous large flowers and fruits.

But almost without exception they were poor in anomalous stamens, at least so on the terminal
heads.

On a lot of some 70 plants more than 50 had less than half a crown of secondary capsules, while from
the same packet of seed the control-plants gave in an equal number
more than half of filled crowns on all plants with the exception of
five weak specimens.

It is curious to compare such artificially injured plants with the ordinary cultures. Strong
stems and heavy fruits, which otherwise are always indicative of showy crowns, now bear fruits
wholly or nearly destitute of any anomalous change. The commonly prevailing rule seems to be
reversed, showing thereby the possibility of abolishing the correlation
between individual strength and anomaly by an artificial encroachment
upon the normal conditions.

Aside from these considerations the experiments clearly give proof of the existence of a period
of sensibility limited to the first weeks of the life of the plant
for the terminal flower.

This knowledge enables us to explain many apparent [388] parent abnormalities, which may occur
in the experiments.

We now may take a broader view of the period of sensibility.

Evidently the response to external influences will be greater the younger the organ. Sensibility
will gradually diminish, and the phenomena observed in the last part
of this period may be considered as the last remainder of a reaction
which previously must have been much stronger and much readier, providing
that it would be possible to isolate them from, and contrast them
with, the other responses of the same plant.

With the light thus cast upon the question, we may conclude that the
sensitive period commences not only at the beginning of the germination,
but must also be considered to include the life of the seed itself.

From the moment of fertilization and the formation of the young embryo the development must
be subjected to the influence of external agencies which determine the direction it will take
and the degree of development it will finally be able to acquire.

Probably the time of growth of the embryo and of the ripening of the seed correspond exactly
to the period of highest sensibility. This period is only interrupted during the resting stage
of the seed, to be repeated in germination.

Afterwards the sensibility [389] slowly and gradually decreases, to end with the definite decision
of all further growth sometime before the outer form of the organ becomes visible under the
microscope. The last period of life includes only an expansion of the tissues, which may still
have some influence on their final size, but not on their form.

This has been definitely arrested before the end of the sensitive period, and ordinarily before
the commencement of that rapid development, which is usually designated by the name of growth,
as contrasted with evolution.

Within the seed the evolution of the young plant manifestly depends upon the qualities and life-conditions
of the parent-plant. The stronger this is, and the more favorable circumstances it is placed
under, the more food will be available for the seed, and the healthier will be the development
of the embryo.

Only well-nourished plants give well-nourished seeds, and the qualities of each plant are for this
reason at least, partly dependent on the properties of its parents and even of its grandparents.

From
these considerations the inference is forced upon us that the apparently
hereditary differences, which are observed to exist among the seeds
of a species or a variety and even of a single strain or a single
parent-plant, may for a large part, and perhaps wholly, be the result
[390] of the life-conditions of their parents and grandparents.

Within the race all ssvariability would in this way be reduced to the effects of external circumstances.
Among these nourishment is no doubt the most momentous, and this
to such a degree that older writers designated the external conditions
by the term nourishment.

According to Knight nutrition reigns supreme in the whole realm of variability, the kind of
food and the method of nourishment coming into consideration only in a secondary way. The amount
of useful nutrition is the all-important factor.

If this is so, and if nutrition decides the degree of deviation of
any given character, the widest deviating individuals are the best
nourished ones.

The best nourished not only during the period of sensibility of the attribute under consideration,
but also in the broadest sense of the word.

This discussion casts a curious light upon the whole question of selection. Not of course upon
the choice of elementary species or varieties out of the original motley assembly which nature
and old cultures offer us, but upon the selection of the best individuals
for isolation and for the improvement of the race.

These are, according to my views, only the best nourished ones. Their external conditions have been
the [391] most favorable, not only from the beginning of their own life in the field, but also
during their embryonic stages, and even during the preparation of these latter in the life
of their parents and perhaps even their grandparents.

Selection then, would only be the choice of the best nourished individuals.

In connection with the foregoing arguments I have tried to separate
the choicest of the poppies with the largest crown of pistilloid stamens,
from the most vigorous individuals.

As we have already seen, these two attributes are as a rule proportional to one another. Exceptions
occur, but they may be explained by some later changes in the external circumstances, as I
have also pointed out. As a rule, these exceptions are large fruits with comparatively too few converted
stamens; they are exactly the contrary from what is required for a selection. Or plants, which
from the beginning were robust, may have become crowded together by further growth, and for
these reasons become weaker than their congeners, though retaining the full development of
the staminodal crown, which was fixed during the sensitive period
and before the crowding.

I have searched my beds yearly for several years in vain to find individuals which might recommend
themselves for selection without having the stamp of permanent, [392] or at least temporarily
better, nourishment. No starting-point for such an independent selection has ever been met with.

Summing
up the consequences of this somewhat extended discussion, we may state it as a rule that a
general proportion between the individual strength and the degree
of development of the anomaly exists.

And from this point of view it is easy to see that all external causes which are known to affect the
one, must be expected to influence the other also.

It will therefore hardly be necessary to give a full description of all my experiments on the relations
of the monstrosity to external conditions.

A hasty survey will suffice.

This survey is not only intended to convey an idea of the relations
of pistilloid poppies to their environment, but may serve as an example
of the principle involved.

According to my experience with a large range of other anomalies, the same rule prevails everywhere.
And this rule is so simple that exact knowledge of one instance may
be considered as sufficient to enable us to calculate from analogy
what is to be expected from a given treatment of any other anomaly.

Our appreciation of observed facts and the conditions to be chosen for intended cultures are largely
dependent on such calculations.

What I am now going to describe [393] is to be considered therefore as an experimental basis
for such expectations.

First of all comes the question how many individuals are to be grown in a given place. When sowing
plants for experimental purposes it is always best to sow in rows, and to give as few seeds
to each row as possible, so as to insure all necessary space to the
young plants.

On the other hand the seeds do not all germinate, and after sowing too thinly, gaps may appear
in the rows. This would cause not only a loss of space, but an inequality between the plants
in later life, as those nearest the gaps would have more space and more light, and a larger area
for their roots than those growing in the unbroken rows. Hence the necessity of using large quantities
of seed and of weeding out a majority of young plants on the spots
where the greatest numbers germinate.

Crowded cultures as a rule, will give weak plants with thin stems, mostly unbranched and bearing
only small capsules. According to the rule, these will produce imperfect crowns of secondary
pistils. The result of any culture will thus be dependent to a high degree on the number of
individuals per square meter. I have sown two similar and neighboring beds with the thoroughly
mixed seeds of parent-plants of the same strain and culture, using as much [394] as 2.5 cu. cm. per
square meter.

On one of the beds I left all the germinating plants untouched and nearly 500 of them flowered, but
among them 360 were almost without pistillody, and only 10 had full crowns. In the other bed I weeded
away more than half of the young plants, leaving only some 150 individuals
and got 32 with a full crown, nearly 100 with half crowns and only
25 apparently without monstrosity.

These figures are very striking. From the same quantity of seed, in equal spaces, by similar exposure
and treatment I got 10 fully developed instances in one and 32 in the other case. The weeding
out of supernumerary individuals had not only increased the percentage
of bright crowns, but also their absolute number per square meter.

So the greatest number of anomalies upon a given space may be obtained by taking care that
not too many plants are grown upon it: any increase of the number beyond a certain limit will
diminish the probability of obtaining these structures. The most successful cultures may be
made after the maximum number of individuals per unit of area has been determined. A control-experiment
was made under the same conditions and with the same seed, but allowing
much less for the same space.

I sowed only 1 cu. cm. on my bed of 2 square meters, and thereby avoided [395] nearly all weeding
out. I got 120 plants, and among them 30 with full crowns of converted stamens, practically
the same number as after the weeding out in the first experiment. This shows that smaller quantities
of seed give an equal chance for a greater number of large crowns,
and should therefore always be preferred, as it saves both seed and
labor.

Weeding out is a somewhat dangerous operation in a comparative trial.

Any one who has done it often, knows that there is a strong propensity to root out the weaker
plants and to spare the stronger ones.


It is not correct to infer that legislative powers have been transferred from the Congress
to the Executive Branch of the Government. Everyone recognizes that general tariff legislation
is a Congressional function; but we know that, because of the stupendous task involved in the
fashioning and the passing of a general tariff law, it is advisable to provide at times of
emergency some flexibility to make the general law adjustable to quickly changing conditions.

We are in such a time today. Our present trade agreement method provides a temporary flexibility
and is, therefore, practical in the best sense. It should be kept alive to serve our trade
interests--agricultural and industrial--in many valuable ways during the existing wars.

But what is more important, the Trade Agreements Act should be extended as an indispensable
part of the foundation of any stable and enduring peace.

The old conditions of world trade made for no enduring peace; and when the time comes, the
United States must use its influence to open up the trade channels of the world, in all nations,
in order that no one nation need feel compelled in later days to seek by force of arms what
it can well gain by peaceful conference. For that purpose, too, we need the Trade Agreements
Act even more today than when it was passed.

I emphasize the leadership which this nation can take when the time comes for a renewal of
world peace. Such an influence will be greatly weakened if this Government becomes a dog in
the manger of trade selfishness.

The first President of the United States warned us against entangling foreign alliances. The
present President of the United States subscribes to and follows that precept.

I hope that most of you will agree that trade cooperation with the rest of the world does not
violate that precept in any way.

Even as through these trade agreements we prepare to cooperate in a world that wants peace,
we must likewise be prepared to take care of ourselves if the world cannot attain peace.

For several years past we have been compelled to strengthen our own national defense. That
has created a very large portion of our Treasury deficits. This year in the light of continuing
world uncertainty, I am asking the Congress for Army and Navy increases which are based not
on panic but on common sense. They are not as great as enthusiastic alarmists seek. They are
not as small as unrealistic persons claiming superior private information would demand.

As will appear in the annual budget tomorrow, the only important increase in any part of the
budget is the estimate for national defense. Practically all other important items show a reduction.
But you know, you can't eat your cake and have it too. Therefore, in the hope that we can continue
in these days of increasing economic prosperity to reduce the Federal deficit, I am asking
the Congress to levy sufficient additional taxes to meet the emergency spending for national
defense.

Behind the Army and Navy, of course, lies our ultimate line of defense--"the general welfare"
of our people. We cannot report, despite all the progress that we have made in our domestic
problems--despite the fact that production is back to 1929 levels--that all our problems are
solved. The fact of unemployment of millions of men and women remains a symptom of a number
of difficulties in our economic system not yet adjusted.

While the number of the unemployed has decreased very greatly, while their immediate needs
for food and clothing--as far as the Federal Government is concerned--have been largely met,
while their morale has been kept alive by giving them useful public work, we have not yet found
a way to employ the surplus of our labor which the efficiency of our industrial processes has
created.

We refuse the European solution of using the unemployed to build up excessive armaments which
eventually result in dictatorships and war. We encourage an American way--through an increase
of national income which is the only way we can be sure will take up the slack. Much progress
has been made; much remains to be done.

We recognize that we must find an answer in terms of work and opportunity.

The unemployment problem today has become very definitely a problem of youth as well as of
age. As each year has gone by hundreds of thousands of boys and girls have come of working
age. They now form an army of unused youth. They must be an especial concern of democratic
Government.

We must continue, above all things, to look for a solution of their special problem. For they,
looking ahead to life, are entitled to action on our part and not merely to admonitions of
optimism or lectures on economic laws.

Some in our midst have sought to instill a feeling of fear and defeatism in the minds of the
American people about this problem.

To face the task of finding jobs faster than invention can take them away--is not defeatism.
To warble easy platitudes that if we would only go back to ways that have failed, everything
would be all right--is not courage.

In 1933 we met a problem of real fear and real defeatism. We faced the facts--with action and
not with words alone.

The American people will reject the doctrine of fear, confident that in the 'thirties we have
been building soundly a new order of things, different from the order of the 'twenties. In
this dawn of the decade of the 'forties, with our program of social improvement started, we
will continue to carry on the processes of recovery, so as to preserve our gains and provide
jobs at living wages.

There are, of course, many other items of great public interest which could be enumerated in
this message--the continued conservation of our natural resources, the improvement of health
and of education, the extension of social security to larger groups, the freeing of large areas
from restricted transportation discriminations, the extension of the merit system and many others.

Our continued progress in the social and economic field is important not only for the significance
of each part of it but for the total effect which our program of domestic betterment has upon
that most valuable asset of a nation in dangerous times--its national unity.

The permanent security of America in the present crisis does not lie in armed force alone.
What we face is a set of world-wide forces of disintegration--vicious, ruthless, destructive
of all the moral, religious and political standards which mankind, after centuries of struggle,
has come to cherish most.

In these moral values, in these forces which have made our nation great, we must actively and
practically reassert our faith.

These words--"national unity"--must not be allowed to be come merely a high-sounding phrase,
a vague generality, a pious hope, to which everyone can give lip-service. They must be made
to have real meaning in terms of the daily thoughts and acts of every man, woman and child
in our land during the coming year and during the years that lie ahead.

For national unity is, in a very real and a very deep sense, the fundamental safeguard of all
democracy.

Doctrines that set group against group, faith against faith, race against race, class against
class, fanning the fires of hatred in men too despondent, too desperate to think for themselves,
were used as rabble-rousing slogans on which dictators could ride to power. And once in power
they could saddle their tyrannies on whole nations and on their weaker neighbors.

This is the danger to which we in America must begin to be more alert. For the apologists for
foreign aggressors, and equally those selfish and partisan groups at home who wrap themselves
in a false mantle of Americanism to promote their own economic, financial or political advantage,
are now trying European tricks upon us, seeking to muddy the stream of our national thinking,
weakening us in the face of danger, by trying to set our own people to fighting among themselves.
Such tactics are what have helped to plunge Europe into war. We must combat them, as we would
the plague, if American integrity and American security are to be preserved. We cannot afford
to face the future as a disunited people.

We must as a united people keep ablaze on this continent the flames of human liberty, of reason,
of democracy and of fair play as living things to be preserved for the better world that is
to come.

Overstatement, bitterness, vituperation, and the beating of drums have contributed mightily
to ill-feeling and wars between nations. If these unnecessary and unpleasant actions are harmful
in the international field, if they have hurt in other parts of the world, they are also harmful
in the domestic scene. Peace among ourselves would seem to have some of the advantage of peace
between us and other nations. In the long run history amply demonstrates that angry controversy
surely wins less than calm discussion.

In the spirit, therefore, of a greater unselfishness, recognizing that the world--including
the United States of America--passes through perilous times, I am very hopeful that the closing
session of the Seventy-sixth Congress will consider the needs of the nation and of humanity
with calmness, with tolerance and with cooperative wisdom.

May the year 1940 be pointed to by our children as another period when democracy justified
its existence as the best instrument of government yet devised by mankind.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 6, 1941

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Seventy-seventh Congress:

I address you, the Members of the Seventy-seventh Congress, at a moment unprecedented in the
history of the Union. I use the word "unprecedented," because at no previous time has American
security been as seriously threatened from without as it is today.

Since the permanent formation of our Government under the Constitution, in 1789, most of the
periods of crisis in our history have related to our domestic affairs. Fortunately, only one
of these--the four-year War Between the States--ever threatened our national unity. Today,
thank God, one hundred and thirty million Americans, in forty-eight States, have forgotten
points of the compass in our national unity.

It is true that prior to 1914 the United States often had been disturbed by events in other
Continents. We had even engaged in two wars with European nations and in a number of undeclared
wars in the West Indies, in the Mediterranean and in the Pacific for the maintenance of American
rights and for the principles of peaceful commerce. But in no case had a serious threat been
raised against our national safety or our continued independence.

What I seek to convey is the historic truth that the United States as a nation has at all times
maintained clear, definite opposition, to any attempt to lock us in behind an ancient Chinese
wall while the procession of civilization went past. Today, thinking of our children and of
their children, we oppose enforced isolation for ourselves or for any other part of the Americas.

That determination of ours, extending over all these years, was proved, for example, during
the quarter century of wars following the French Revolution.

While the Napoleonic struggles did threaten interests of the United States because of the French
foothold in the West Indies and in Louisiana, and while we engaged in the War of 1812 to vindicate
our right to peaceful trade, it is nevertheless clear that neither France nor Great Britain,
nor any other nation, was aiming at domination of the whole world.

In like fashion from 1815 to 1914--ninety-nine years--no single war in Europe or in Asia constituted
a real threat against our future or against the future of any other American nation.

Except in the Maximilian interlude in Mexico, no foreign power sought to establish itself in
this Hemisphere; and the strength of the British fleet in the Atlantic has been a friendly
strength. It is still a friendly strength.

Even when the World War broke out in 1914, it seemed to contain only small threat of danger
to our own American future. But, as time went on, the American people began to visualize what
the downfall of democratic nations might mean to our own democracy.

We need not overemphasize imperfections in the Peace of Versailles. We need not harp on failure
of the democracies to deal with problems of world reconstruction. We should remember that the
Peace of 1919 was far less unjust than the kind of "pacification" which began even before Munich,
and which is being carried on under the new order of tyranny that seeks to spread over every
continent today. The American people have unalterably set their faces against that tyranny.

Every realist knows that the democratic way of life is at this moment being directly assailed
in every part of the world--assailed either by arms, or by secret spreading of poisonous propaganda
by those who seek to destroy unity and promote discord in nations that are still at peace.

During sixteen long months this assault has blotted out the whole pattern of democratic life
in an appalling number of independent nations, great and small. The assailants are still on
the march, threatening other nations, great and small.

Therefore, as your President, performing my constitutional duty to "give to the Congress information
of the state of the Union," I find it, unhappily, necessary to report that the future and the
safety of our country and of our democracy are overwhelmingly involved in events far beyond
our borders.

Armed defense of democratic existence is now being gallantly waged in four continents. If that
defense fails, all the population and all the resources of Europe, Asia, Africa and Australasia
will be dominated by the conquerors. Let us remember that the total of those populations and
their resources in those four continents greatly exceeds the sum total of the population and
the resources of the whole of the Western Hemisphere--many times over.

In times like these it is immature--and incidentally, untrue--for anybody to brag that an unprepared
America, single-handed, and with one hand tied behind its back, can hold off the whole world.

No realistic American can expect from a dictator's peace international generosity, or return
of true independence, or world disarmament, or freedom of expression, or freedom of religion--or
even good business.

Such a peace would bring no security for us or for our neighbors. "Those, who would give up
essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety."

As a nation, we may take pride in the fact that we are softhearted; but we cannot afford to
be soft-headed.

We must always be wary of those who with sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal preach the "ism"
of appeasement.

We must especially beware of that small group of selfish men who would clip the wings of the
American eagle in order to feather their own nests.

I have recently pointed out how quickly the tempo of modern warfare could bring into our very
midst the physical attack which we must eventually expect if the dictator nations win this war.

There is much loose talk of our immunity from immediate and direct invasion from across the
seas. Obviously, as long as the British Navy retains its power, no such danger exists. Even
if there were no British Navy, it is not probable that any enemy would be stupid enough to
attack us by landing troops in the United States from across thousands of miles of ocean, until
it had acquired strategic bases from which to operate.

But we learn much from the lessons of the past years in Europe--particularly the lesson of
Norway, whose essential seaports were captured by treachery and surprise built up over a series
of years.

The first phase of the invasion of this Hemisphere would not be the landing of regular troops.
The necessary strategic points would be occupied by secret agents and their dupes--and great
numbers of them are already here, and in Latin America.

As long as the aggressor nations maintain the offensive, they--not we--will choose the time
and the place and the method of their attack.

That is why the future of all the American Republics is today in serious danger.

That is why this Annual Message to the Congress is unique in our history.

That is why every member of the Executive Branch of the Government and every member of the
Congress faces great responsibility and great accountability.

The need of the moment is that our actions and our policy should be devoted primarily--almost
exclusively--to meeting this foreign peril. For all our domestic problems are now a part of
the great emergency.

Just as our national policy in internal affairs has been based upon a decent respect for the
rights and the dignity of all our fellow men within our gates, so our national policy in foreign
affairs has been based on a decent respect for the rights and dignity of all nations, large
and small. And the justice of morality must and will win in the end.

Our national policy is this:

First, by an impressive expression of the public will and without regard to partisanship, we
are committed to all-inclusive national defense.

Second, by an impressive expression of the public will and without regard to partisanship,
we are committed to full support of all those resolute peoples, everywhere, who are resisting
aggression and are thereby keeping war away from our Hemisphere. By this support, we express
our determination that the democratic cause shall prevail; and we strengthen the defense and
the security of our own nation.

Third, by an impressive expression of the public will and without regard to partisanship, we
are committed to the proposition that principles of morality and considerations for our own
security will never permit us to acquiesce in a peace dictated by aggressors and sponsored
by appeasers. We know that enduring peace cannot be bought at the cost of other people's freedom.

In the recent national election there was no substantial difference between the two great parties
in respect to that national policy. No issue was fought out on this line before the American
electorate. Today it is abundantly evident that American citizens everywhere are demanding
and supporting speedy and complete action in recognition of obvious danger.

Therefore, the immediate need is a swift and driving increase in our armament production.

Leaders of industry and labor have responded to our summons. Goals of speed have been set.
In some cases these goals are being reached ahead of time; in some cases we are on schedule;
in other cases there are slight but not serious delays; and in some cases--and I am sorry to
say very important cases--we are all concerned by the slowness of the accomplishment of our plans.

The Army and Navy, however, have made substantial progress during the past year. Actual experience
is improving and speeding up our methods of production with every passing day. And today's
best is not good enough for tomorrow.

I am not satisfied with the progress thus far made. The men in charge of the program represent
the best in training, in ability, and in patriotism. They are not satisfied with the progress
thus far made. None of us will be satisfied until the job is done.

No matter whether the original goal was set too high or too low, our objective is quicker and
better results. To give you two illustrations:

We are behind schedule in turning out finished airplanes; we are working day and night to solve
the innumerable problems and to catch up.

We are ahead of schedule in building warships but we are working to get even further ahead
of that schedule.

To change a whole nation from a basis of peacetime production of implements of peace to a basis
of wartime production of implements of war is no small task. And the greatest difficulty comes
at the beginning of the program, when new tools, new plant facilities, new assembly lines,
and new ship ways must first be constructed before the actual materiel begins to flow steadily
and speedily from them.

The Congress, of course, must rightly keep itself informed at all times of the progress of
the program. However, there is certain information, as the Congress itself will readily recognize,
which, in the interests of our own security and those of the nations that we are supporting,
must of needs be kept in confidence.

New circumstances are constantly begetting new needs for our safety. I shall ask this Congress
for greatly increased new appropriations and authorizations to carry on what we have begun.

I also ask this Congress for authority and for funds sufficient to manufacture additional munitions
and war supplies of many kinds, to be turned over to those nations which are now in actual
war with aggressor nations.

Our most useful and immediate role is to act as an arsenal for them as well as for ourselves.
They do not need man power, but they do need billions of dollars worth of the weapons of defense.

The time is near when they will not be able to pay for them all in ready cash. We cannot, and
we will not, tell them that they must surrender, merely because of present inability to pay
for the weapons which we know they must have.

I do not recommend that we make them a loan of dollars with which to pay for these weapons--a
loan to be repaid in dollars.

I recommend that we make it possible for those nations to continue to obtain war materials
in the United States, fitting their orders into our own program. Nearly all their materiel
would, if the time ever came, be useful for our own defense.

Taking counsel of expert military and naval authorities, considering what is best for our own
security, we are free to decide how much should be kept here and how much should be sent abroad
to our friends who by their determined and heroic resistance are giving us time in which to
make ready our own defense.

For what we send abroad, we shall be repaid within a reasonable time following the close of
hostilities, in similar materials, or, at our option, in other goods of many kinds, which they
can produce and which we need.

Let us say to the democracies: "We Americans are vitally concerned in your defense of freedom.
We are putting forth our energies, our resources and our organizing powers to give you the
strength to regain and maintain a free world. We shall send you, in ever-increasing numbers,
ships, planes, tanks, guns. This is our purpose and our pledge."

In fulfillment of this purpose we will not be intimidated by the threats of dictators that
they will regard as a breach of international law or as an act of war our aid to the democracies
which dare to resist their aggression. Such aid is not an act of war, even if a dictator should
unilaterally proclaim it so to be.

When the dictators, if the dictators, are ready to make war upon us, they will not wait for
an act of war on our part. They did not wait for Norway or Belgium or the Netherlands to commit
an act of war.

Their only interest is in a new one-way international law, which lacks mutuality in its observance,
and, therefore, becomes an instrument of oppression.

The happiness of future generations of Americans may well depend upon how effective and how
immediate we can make our aid felt. No one can tell the exact character of the emergency situations
that we may be called upon to meet. The Nation's hands must not be tied when the Nation's life
is in danger.

We must all prepare to make the sacrifices that the emergency--almost as serious as war itself--demands.
Whatever stands in the way of speed and efficiency in defense preparations must give way to
the national need.

A free nation has the right to expect full cooperation from all groups. A free nation has the
right to look to the leaders of business, of labor, and of agriculture to take the lead in
stimulating effort, not among other groups but within their own groups.

The best way of dealing with the few slackers or trouble makers in our midst is, first, to
shame them by patriotic example, and, if that fails, to use the sovereignty of Government to
save Government.

As men do not live by bread alone, they do not fight by armaments alone. Those who man our
defenses, and those behind them who build our defenses, must have the stamina and the courage
which come from unshakable belief in the manner of life which they are defending. The mighty
action that we are calling for cannot be based on a disregard of all things worth fighting for.

The Nation takes great satisfaction and much strength from the things which have been done
to make its people conscious of their individual stake in the preservation of democratic life
in America. Those things have toughened the fibre of our people, have renewed their faith and
strengthened their devotion to the institutions we make ready to protect.

Certainly this is no time for any of us to stop thinking about the social and economic problems
which are the root cause of the social revolution which is today a supreme factor in the world.

For there is nothing mysterious about the foundations of a healthy and strong democracy. The
basic things expected by our people of their political and economic systems are simple. They are:

Equality of opportunity for youth and for others.

Jobs for those who can work.

Security for those who need it.

The ending of special privilege for the few.

The preservation of civil liberties for all.

The enjoyment of the fruits of scientific progress in a wider and constantly rising standard
of living.

These are the simple, basic things that must never be lost sight of in the turmoil and unbelievable
complexity of our modern world. The inner and abiding strength of our economic and political
systems is dependent upon the degree to which they fulfill these expectations.

Many subjects connected with our social economy call for immediate improvement.

As examples:

We should bring more citizens under the coverage of old-age pensions and unemployment insurance.

We should widen the opportunities for adequate medical care.

We should plan a better system by which persons deserving or needing gainful employment may
obtain it.

I have called for personal sacrifice. I am assured of the willingness of almost all Americans
to respond to that call.

A part of the sacrifice means the payment of more money in taxes. In my Budget Message I shall
recommend that a greater portion of this great defense program be paid for from taxation than
we are paying today. No person should try, or be allowed, to get rich out of this program;
and the principle of tax payments in accordance with ability to pay should be constantly before
our eyes to guide our legislation.

If the Congress maintains these principles, the voters, putting patriotism ahead of pocketbooks,
will give you their applause.

In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four
essential human freedoms.

The first is freedom of speech and expression--everywhere in the world.

The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way--everywhere in the world.

The third is freedom from want--which, translated into world terms, means economic understandings
which will secure to every nation a healthy peacetime life for its inhabitants--everywhere
in the world.

The fourth is freedom from fear--which, translated into world terms, means a world-wide reduction
of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position
to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor--anywhere in the world.

That is no vision of a distant millennium. It is a definite basis for a kind of world attainable
in our own time and generation. That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called
new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with the crash of a bomb.

To that new order we oppose the greater conception--the moral order. A good society is able
to face schemes of world domination and foreign revolutions alike without fear.

Since the beginning of our American history, we have been engaged in change--in a perpetual
peaceful revolution--a revolution which goes on steadily, quietly adjusting itself to changing
conditions--without the concentration camp or the quick-lime in the ditch. The world order
which we seek is the cooperation of free countries, working together in a friendly, civilized
society.

This nation has placed its destiny in the hands and heads and hearts of its millions of free
men and women; and its faith in freedom under the guidance of God. Freedom means the supremacy
of human rights everywhere. Our support goes to those who struggle to gain those rights or
keep them. Our strength is our unity of purpose. To that high concept there can be no end save
victory.

***

State of the Union Address Franklin D. Roosevelt January 6, 1942

In fulfilling my duty to report upon the State of the Union, I am proud to say to you that
the spirit of the American people was never higher than it is today--the Union was never more
closely knit together--this country was never more deeply determined to face the solemn tasks
before it.

The response of the American people has been instantaneous, and it will be sustained until
our security is assured. They--not we--will choose the time and the place and the method of
their attack."

We now know their choice of the time: a peaceful Sunday morning--December 7, 1941.

We know their choice of the place: an American outpost in the Pacific.

We know their choice of the method: the method of Hitler himself.

Japan's scheme of conquest goes back half a century. It was not merely a policy of seeking
living room: it was a plan which included the subjugation of all the peoples in the Far East
and in the islands of the Pacific, and the domination of that ocean by Japanese military and
naval control of the western coasts of North, Central, and South America.

The development of this ambitious conspiracy was marked by the war against China in 1894; the
subsequent occupation of Korea; the war against Russia in 1904; the illegal fortification of
the mandated Pacific islands following 1920; the seizure of Manchuria in 1931; and the invasion
of China in 1937.

A similar policy of criminal conquest was adopted by Italy. The Fascists first revealed their
imperial designs in Libya and Tripoli. In 1935 they seized Abyssinia. Their goal was the domination
of all North Africa, Egypt, parts of France, and the entire Mediterranean world.

But the dreams of empire of the Japanese and Fascist leaders were modest in comparison with
the gargantuan aspirations of Hitler and his Nazis. Even before they came to power in 1933,
their plans for that conquest had been drawn. Those plans provided for ultimate domination,
not of any one section of the world, but of the whole earth and all the oceans on it.

When Hitler organized his Berlin-Rome-Tokyo alliance, all these plans of conquest became a
single plan. Under this, in addition to her own schemes of conquest, Japan's role was obviously
to cut off our supply of weapons of war to Britain, and Russia and China--weapons which increasingly
were speeding the day of Hitler's doom. The act of Japan at Pearl Harbor was intended to stun
us--to terrify us to such an extent that we would divert our industrial and military strength
to the Pacific area, or even to our own continental defense.

The plan has failed in its purpose. We have not been stunned. We have not been terrified or
confused. This very reassembling of the Seventy-seventh Congress today is proof of that; for
the mood of quiet, grim resolution which here prevails bodes ill for those who conspired and
collaborated to murder world peace.

That mood is stronger than any mere desire for revenge. It expresses the will of the American
people to make very certain that the world will never so suffer again.

Admittedly, we have been faced with hard choices. It was bitter, for example, not to be able
to relieve the heroic and historic defenders of Wake Island. It was bitter for us not to be
able to land a million men in a thousand ships in the Philippine Islands.

But this adds only to our determination to see to it that the Stars and Stripes will fly again
over Wake and Guam. Yes, see to it that the brave people of the Philippines will be rid of
Japanese imperialism; and will live in freedom, security, and independence.

Powerful and offensive actions must and will be taken in proper time. The consolidation of
the United Nations' total war effort against our common enemies is being achieved.

That was and is the purpose of conferences which have been held during the past two weeks in
Washington, and Moscow and Chungking. That is the primary objective of the declaration of solidarity
signed in Washington on January 1, 1942, by 26 Nations united against the Axis powers.

Difficult choices may have to be made in the months to come. We do not shrink from such decisions.
We and those united with us will make those decisions with courage and determination.

Plans have been laid here and in the other capitals for coordinated and cooperative action
by all the United Nations--military action and economic action. Already we have established,
as you know, unified command of land, sea, and air forces in the southwestern Pacific theater
of war. There will be a continuation of conferences and consultations among military staffs,
so that the plans and operations of each will fit into the general strategy designed to crush
the enemy. We shall not fight isolated wars--each Nation going its own way. These 26 Nations
are united--not in spirit and determination alone, but in the broad conduct of the war in all
its phases.

For the first time since the Japanese and the Fascists and the Nazis started along their blood-stained
course of conquest they now face the fact that superior forces are assembling against them.
Gone forever are the days when the aggressors could attack and destroy their victims one by
one without unity of resistance. We of the United Nations will so dispose our forces that we
can strike at the common enemy wherever the greatest damage can be done him.

The militarists of Berlin and Tokyo started this war. But the massed, angered forces of common
humanity will finish it.

Destruction of the material and spiritual centers of civilization--this has been and still
is the purpose of Hitler and his Italian and Japanese chessmen. They would wreck the power
of the British Commonwealth and Russia and China and the Netherlands--and then combine all
their forces to achieve their ultimate goal, the conquest of the United States.

They know that victory for us means victory for freedom.

They know that victory for us means victory for the institution of democracy--the ideal of
the family, the simple principles of common decency and humanity.

They know that victory for us means victory for religion. And they could not tolerate that.
The world is too small to provide adequate "living room" for both Hitler and God. In proof
of that, the Nazis have now announced their plan for enforcing their new German, pagan religion
all over the world--a plan by which the Holy Bible and the Cross of Mercy would be displaced
by Mein Kampf and the swastika and the naked sword.

Our own objectives are clear; the objective of smashing the militarism imposed by war lords
upon their enslaved peoples the objective of liberating the subjugated Nations--the objective
of establishing and securing freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from want, and
freedom from fear everywhere in the world.

We shall not stop short of these objectives--nor shall we be satisfied merely to gain them
and then call it a day. I know that I speak for the American people--and I have good reason
to believe that I speak also for all the other peoples who fight with us--when I say that this
time we are determined not only to win the war, but also to maintain the security of the peace
that will follow.

But we know that modern methods of warfare make it a task, not only of shooting and fighting,
but an even more urgent one of working and producing.

Victory requires the actual weapons of war and the means of transporting them to a dozen points
of combat.

It will not be sufficient for us and the other United Nations to produce a slightly superior
supply of munitions to that of Germany, Japan, Italy, and the stolen industries in the countries
which they have overrun.

The superiority of the United Nations in munitions and ships must be overwhelming--so overwhelming
that the Axis Nations can never hope to catch up with it. And so, in order to attain this overwhelming
superiority the United States must build planes and tanks and guns and ships to the utmost
limit of our national capacity. We have the ability and capacity to produce arms not only for
our own forces, but also for the armies, navies, and air forces fighting on our side.

And our overwhelming superiority of armament must be adequate to put weapons of war at the
proper time into the hands of those men in the conquered Nations who stand ready to seize the
first opportunity to revolt against their German and Japanese oppressors, and against the traitors
in their own ranks, known by the already infamous name of "Quislings." And I think that it
is a fair prophecy to say that, as we get guns to the patriots in those lands, they too will
fire shots heard 'round the world.

This production of ours in the United States must be raised far above present levels, even
though it will mean the dislocation of the lives and occupations of millions of our own people.
We must raise our sights all along the production line. Let no man say it cannot be done. It
must be done--and we have undertaken to do it.

I have just sent a letter of directive to the appropriate departments and agencies of our Government,
ordering that immediate steps be taken:

First, to increase our production rate of airplanes so rapidly that in this year, 1942, we
shall produce 60,000 planes, 10,000 more than the goal that we set a year and a half ago. This
includes 45,000 combat planes--bombers, dive bombers, pursuit planes. The rate of increase
will be maintained and continued so that next year, 1943, we shall produce 125,000 airplanes,
including 100,000 combat planes.

Second, to increase our production rate of tanks so rapidly that in this year, 1942, we shall
produce 45,000 tanks; and to continue that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall produce
75,000 tanks.

Third, to increase our production rate of anti-aircraft guns so rapidly that in this year,
1942, we shall produce 20,000 of them; and to continue that increase so that next year, 1943,
we shall produce 35,000 anti-aircraft guns.

And fourth, to increase our production rate of merchant ships so rapidly that in this year,
1942, we shall build 6,000,000 deadweight tons as compared with a 1941 completed production
of 1,100,000. And finally, we shall continue that increase so that next year, 1943, we shall
build 10,000,000 tons of shipping.

These figures and similar figures for a multitude of other implements of war will give the
Japanese and the Nazis a little idea of just what they accomplished in the attack at Pearl Harbor.

And I rather hope that all these figures which I have given will become common knowledge in
Germany and Japan.

Our task is hard--our task is unprecedented--and the time is short. We must strain every existing
armament-producing facility to the utmost. We must convert every available plant and tool to
war production. That goes all the way from the greatest plants to the smallest--from the huge
automobile industry to the village machine shop.

Production for war is based on men and women--the human hands and brains which collectively
we call Labor. Our workers stand ready to work long hours; to turn out more in a day's work;
to keep the wheels turning and the fires burning twenty-four hours a day, and seven days a
week. They realize well that on the speed and efficiency of their work depend the lives of
their sons and their brothers on the fighting fronts.

Production for war is based on metals and raw materials--steel, copper, rubber, aluminum, zinc,
tin. Greater and greater quantities of them will have to be diverted to war purposes. Civilian
use of them will have to be cut further and still further--and, in many cases, completely eliminated.

War costs money. So far, we have hardly even begun to pay for it. We have devoted only 15 percent
of our national income to national defense. As will appear in my Budget Message tomorrow, our
war program for the coming fiscal year will cost 56 billion dollars or, in other words, more
than half of the estimated annual national income. That means taxes and bonds and bonds and
taxes. It means cutting luxuries and other non-essentials. In a word, it means an "all-out"
war by individual effort and family effort in a united country.

Only this all-out scale of production will hasten the ultimate all-out victory. Speed will
count. Lost ground can always be regained--lost time never. Speed will save lives; speed will
save this Nation which is in peril; speed will save our freedom and our civilization--and slowness
has never been an American characteristic.

As the United States goes into its full stride, we must always be on guard against misconceptions
which will arise, some of them naturally, or which will be planted among us by our enemies.

We must guard against complacency. We must not underrate the enemy. He is powerful and cunning--and
cruel and ruthless. He will stop at nothing that gives him a chance to kill and to destroy.
He has trained his people to believe that their highest perfection is achieved by waging war.
For many years he has prepared for this very conflict--planning, and plotting, and training,
arming, and fighting. We have already tasted defeat. We may suffer further setbacks. We must
face the fact of a hard war, a long war, a bloody war, a costly war.

We must, on the other hand, guard against defeatism. That has been one of the chief weapons
of Hitler's propaganda machine--used time and again with deadly results. It will not be used
successfully on the American people.

We must guard against divisions among ourselves and among all the other United Nations. We
must be particularly vigilant against racial discrimination in any of its ugly forms. Hitler
will try again to breed mistrust and suspicion between one individual and another, one group
and another, one race and another, one Government and another. He will try to use the same
technique of falsehood and rumor-mongering with which he divided France from Britain. He is
trying to do this with us even now. But he will find a unity of will and purpose against him,
which will persevere until the destruction of all his black designs upon the freedom and safety
of the people of the world.

We cannot wage this war in a defensive spirit. As our power and our resources are fully mobilized,
we shall carry the attack against the enemy--we shall hit him and hit him again wherever and
whenever we can reach him.

We must keep him far from our shores, for we intend to bring this battle to him on his own
home grounds.

American armed forces must be used at any place in all the world where it seems advisable to
engage the forces of the enemy. In some cases these operations will be defensive, in order
to protect key positions. In other cases, these operations will be offensive, in order to strike
at the common enemy, with a view to his complete encirclement and eventual total defeat.

American armed forces will operate at many points in the Far East.

American armed forces will be on all the oceans--helping to guard the essential communications
which are vital to the United Nations.

American land and air and sea forces will take stations in the British Isles--which constitute
an essential fortress in this great world struggle.

American armed forces will help to protect this hemisphere--and also help to protect bases
outside this hemisphere, which could be used for an attack on the Americas.

If any of our enemies, from Europe or from Asia, attempt long-range raids by "suicide" squadrons
of bombing planes, they will do so only in the hope of terrorizing our people and disrupting
our morale. Our people are not afraid of that. We know that we may have to pay a heavy price
for freedom. We will pay this price with a will. Whatever the price, it is a thousand times
worth it. No matter what our enemies, in their desperation, may attempt to do to us--we will
say, as the people of London have said, "We can take it." And what's more we can give it back
and we will give it back--with compound interest.

When our enemies challenged our country to stand up and fight, they challenged each and every
one of us. And each and every one of us has accepted the challenge--for himself and for his Nation.

There were only some 400 United States Marines who in the heroic and historic defense of Wake
Island inflicted such great losses on the enemy. Some of those men were killed in action; and
others are now prisoners of war. When the survivors of that great fight are liberated and restored
to their homes, they will learn that a hundred and thirty million of their fellow citizens
have been inspired to render their own full share of service and sacrifice.

We can well say that our men on the fighting fronts have already proved that Americans today
are just as rugged and just as tough as any of the heroes whose exploits we celebrate on the
Fourth of July.

Many people ask, "When will this war end?" There is only one answer to that. It will end just
as soon as we make it end, by our combined efforts, our combined strength, our combined determination
to fight through and work through until the end--the end of militarism in Germany and Italy
and Japan. Most certainly we shall not settle for less.

That is the spirit in which discussions have been conducted during the visit of the British
Prime Minister to Washington. Mr. Churchill and I understand each other, our motives and our
purposes. Together, during the past two weeks, we have faced squarely the major military and
economic problems of this greatest world war.

All in our Nation have been cheered by Mr. Churchill's visit. We have been deeply stirred by
his great message to us. He is welcome in our midst, and we unite in wishing him a safe return
to his home.

For we are fighting on the same side with the British people, who fought alone for long, terrible
months, and withstood the enemy with fortitude and tenacity and skill.

We are fighting on the same side with the Russian people who have seen the Nazi hordes swarm
up to the very gates of Moscow, and who with almost superhuman will and courage have forced
the invaders back into retreat.

We are fighting on the same side as the brave people of China--those millions who for four
and a half long years have withstood bombs and starvation and have whipped the invaders time
and again in spite of the superior Japanese equipment and arms. Yes, we are fighting on the
same side as the indomitable Dutch. We are fighting on the same side as all the other Governments
in exile, whom Hitler and all his armies and all his Gestapo have not been able to conquer.

But we of the United Nations are not making all this sacrifice of human effort and human lives
to return to the kind of world we had after the last world war.

We are fighting today for security, for progress, and for peace, not only for ourselves but
for all men, not only for one generation but for all generations. We are fighting to cleanse
the world of ancient evils, ancient ills.

Our enemies are guided by brutal cynicism, by unholy contempt for the human race. We are inspired
by a faith that goes back through all the years to the first chapter of the Book of Genesis:
"God created man in His own image."

We on our side are striving to be true to that divine heritage. We are fighting, as our fathers
have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are equal in the sight of God. Those on the
other side are striving to destroy this deep belief and to create a world in their own image--a
world of tyranny and cruelty and serfdom.

That is the conflict that day and night now pervades our lives.

No compromise can end that conflict. There never has been--there never can be--successful compromise
between good and evil. Only total victory can reward the champions of tolerance, and decency,
and freedom, and faith.

***

State of the Union Address Harry S. Truman January 21, 1946

To the Congress of the United States:

A quarter century ago the Congress decided that it could no longer consider the financial programs
of the various departments on a piecemeal basis. Instead it has called on the President to
present a comprehensive Executive Budget. The Congress has shown its satisfaction with that
method by extending the budget system and tightening its controls. The bigger and more complex
the Federal Program, the more necessary it is for the Chief Executive to submit a single budget
for action by the Congress.

At the same time, it is clear that the budgetary program and the general program of the Government
are actually inseparable. The president bears the responsibility for recommending to the Congress
a comprehensive set of proposals on all Government activities and their financing. In formulating
policies, as in preparing budgetary estimates, the Nation and the Congress have the right to
expect the President to adjust and coordinate the views of the various departments and agencies
to form a unified program. And that program requires consideration in connection with the Budget,
which is the annual work program of the Government.

Since our programs for this period which combines war liquidation with reconversion to a peacetime
economy are inevitably large and numerous it is imperative that they be planned and executed
with the utmost efficiency and the utmost economy. We have cut the war program to the maximum
extent consistent with national security. We have held our peacetime programs to the level
necessary to our national well-being and the attainment of our postwar objectives. Where increased
programs have been recommended, the increases have been held as low as is consistent with these
goals. I can assure the Congress of the necessity of these programs. I can further assure the
Congress that the program as a whole is well within our capacity to finance it. All the programs
I have recommended for action are included in the Budget figures.

For these reasons I have chosen to combine the customary Message on the State of the Union
with the annual Budget Message, and to include in the Budget not only estimates for functions
authorized by the Congress, but also for those which I recommend for its action.

I am also transmitting herewith the Fifth Quarterly Report of the Director of War Mobilization
and Reconversion.[1] It is a comprehensive discussion of the present state of the reconversion
program and of the immediate and long-range needs and recommendations.

[Footnote 1: The report dated January 1, 1946, and entitled "Battle for Production" is printed
in House Document 398 (79th Cong., 2d sess.).]

This constitutes, then, as complete a report as I find it possible to prepare now. It constitutes
a program of government in relation to the Nation's needs.

With the growing responsibility of modern government to foster economic expansion and to promote
conditions that assure full and steady employment opportunities, it has become necessary to
formulate and determine the Government program in the light of national economic conditions
as a whole. In both the executive and the legislative branches we must make arrangements which
will permit us to formulate the Government program in that light. Such an approach has become
imperative if the American political and economic system is to succeed under the conditions
of economic instability and uncertainty which we have to face. The Government needs to assure
business, labor, and agriculture that Government policies will take due account of the requirements
of a full employment economy. The lack of that assurance would, I believe, aggravate the economic
instability.

With the passage of a full employment bill which I confidently anticipate for the very near
future, the executive and legislative branches of government will be empowered to devote their
best talents and resources in subsequent years to preparing and acting on such a program.

I. FROM WAR TO PEACE--THE YEAR

OF DECISION

In his last Message on the State of the Union, delivered one year ago, President Roosevelt said:

"This new year of 1945 can be the greatest year of achievement in human history.

"1945 can see the final ending of the Nazi-Fascist reign of terror in Europe.

All those hopes, and more, were fulfilled in the year 1945. It was the greatest year of achievement
in human history. It saw the end of the Nazi-Fascist terror in Europe, and also the end of
the malignant power of Japan. And it saw the substantial beginning of world organization for
peace. These momentous events became realities because of the steadfast purpose of the United
Nations and of the forces that fought for freedom under their flags. The plain fact is that
civilization was saved in 1945 by the United Nations.

Our own part in this accomplishment was not the product of any single service. Those who fought
on land, those who fought on the sea, and those who fought in the air deserve equal credit.
They were supported by other millions in the armed forces who through no fault of their own
could not go overseas and who rendered indispensable service in this country. They were supported
by millions in all levels of government, including many volunteers, whose devoted public service
furnished basic organization and leadership. They were also supported by the millions of Americans
in private life--men and women in industry, in commerce, on the farms, and in all manner of
activity on the home front--who contributed their brains and their brawn in arming, equipping,
and feeding them. The country was brought through four years of peril by an effort that was
truly national in character.

Everlasting tribute and gratitude will be paid by all Americans to those brave men who did
not come back, who will never come back--the 330,000 who died that the Nation might live and
progress. All Americans will also remain deeply conscious of the obligation owed to that larger
number of soldiers, sailors, and marines who suffered wounds and sickness in their service.
They may be certain that their sacrifice will never be forgotten or their needs neglected.

The beginning of the year 1946 finds the United States strong and deservedly confident. We
have a record of enormous achievements as a democratic society in solving problems and meeting
opportunities as they developed. We find ourselves possessed of immeasurable advantages--vast
and varied natural resources; great plants, institutions, and other facilities; unsurpassed
technological and managerial skills; an alert, resourceful, and able citizenry. We have in
the United States Government rich resources in information, perspective, and facilities for
doing whatever may be found necessary to do in giving support and form to the widespread and
diversified efforts of all our people.

And for the immediate future the business prospects are generally so favorable that there is
danger of such feverish and opportunistic activity that our grave postwar problems may be neglected.
We need to act now with full regard for pitfalls; we need to act with foresight and balance.
We should not be lulled by the immediate alluring prospects into forgetting the fundamental
complexity of modern affairs, the catastrophe that can come in this complexity, or the values
that can be wrested from it.

But the long-range difficulties we face should no more lead to despair than our immediate business
prospects should lead to the optimism which comes from the present short-range prospect. On
the foundation of our victory we can build a lasting peace, with greater freedom and security
for mankind in our country and throughout the world. We will more certainly do this if we are
constantly aware of the fact that we face crucial issues and prepare now to meet them.

To achieve success will require both boldness in setting our sights and caution in steering
our way on an uncharted course. But we have no luxury of choice. We must move ahead. No return
to the past is possible.

Our Nation has always been a land of great opportunities for those people of the world who
sought to become part of us. Now we have become a land of great responsibilities to all the
people of all the world. We must squarely recognize and face the fact of those responsibilities.
Advances in science, in communication, in transportation, have compressed the world into a
community. The economic and political health of each member of the world community bears directly
on the economic and political health of each other member.

The evolution of centuries has brought us to a new era in world history in which manifold relationships
between nations must be formalized and developed in new and intricate ways.

The United Nations Organization now being established represents a minimum essential beginning.
It must be developed rapidly and steadily. Its work must be amplified to fill in the whole
pattern that has been outlined. Economic collaboration, for example, already charted, now must
be carried on as carefully and as comprehensively as the political and security measures.

It is important that the nations come together as States in the Assembly and in the Security
Council and in the other specialized assemblies and councils that have been and will be arranged.
But this is not enough. Our ultimate security requires more than a process of consultation
and compromise.

It requires that we begin now to develop the United Nations Organization as the representative
of the world as one society. The United Nations Organization, if we have the will adequately
to staff it and to make it work as it should, will provide a great voice to speak constantly
and responsibly in terms of world collaboration and world well-being.

There are many new responsibilities for us as we enter into this new international era. The
whole power and will and wisdom of our Government and of our people should be focused to contribute
to and to influence international action. It is intricate, continuing business. Many concessions
and adjustments will be required.

The spectacular progress of science in recent years makes these necessities more vivid and
urgent. That progress has speeded internal development and has changed world relationships
so fast that we must realize the fact of a new era. It is an era in which affairs have become
complex and rich in promise. Delicate and intricate relationships, involving us all in countless
ways, must be carefully considered.

On the domestic scene, as well as on the international scene, we must lay a new and better
foundation for cooperation. We face a great peacetime venture; the challenging venture of a
free enterprise economy making full and effective use of its rich resources and technical advances.
This is a venture in which business, agriculture, and labor have vastly greater opportunities
than heretofore. But they all also have vastly greater responsibilities. We will not measure
up to those responsibilities by the simple return to "normalcy" that was tried after the last war.

The general objective, on the contrary, is to move forward to find the way in time of peace
to the full utilization and development of our physical and human resources that were demonstrated
so effectively in the war.

To accomplish this, it is not intended that the Federal Government should do things that can
be done as well for the Nation by private enterprise, or by State and local governments. On
the contrary, the war has demonstrated how effectively we can organize our productive system
and develop the potential abilities of our people by aiding the efforts of private enterprise.

As we move toward one common objective there will be many and urgent problems to meet.

Industrial peace between management and labor will have to be achieved--through the process
of collective bargaining--with Government assistance but not Government compulsion. This is
a problem which is the concern not only of management, labor, and the Government, but also
the concern of every one of us.

Private capital and private management are entitled to adequate reward for efficiency, but
business must recognize that its reward results from the employment of the resources of the
Nation. Business is a public trust and must adhere to national standards in the conduct of
its affairs. These standards include as a minimum the establishment of fair wages and fair
employment practices.

Labor also has its own new peacetime responsibilities. Under our collective bargaining system,
which must become progressively more secure, labor attains increasing political as well as
economic power, and this, as with all power, means increased responsibility.

The lives of millions of veterans and war workers will be greatly affected by the success or
failure of our program of war liquidation and reconversion. Their transition to peacetime pursuits
will be determined by our efforts to break the bottlenecks in key items of production, to make
surplus property immediately available where it is needed, to maintain an effective national
employment service, and many other reconversion policies. Our obligations to the people who
won the war will not be paid if we fail to prevent inflation and to maintain employment opportunities.

While our peacetime prosperity will be based on the private enterprise the government can and
must assist in many ways. It is the Government's responsibility to see that our economic system
remains competitive, that new businesses have adequate opportunities, and that our national
resources are restored and improved. Government must realize the effect of its operations on
the whole economy. It is the responsibility of Government to gear its total program to the
achievement of full production and full employment.

Our basic objective--toward which all others lead--is to improve the welfare of the American
people. In addition to economic prosperity, this means that we use social security in the fullest
sense of the word. And people must be protected from excessive want during old age, sickness,
and unemployment. Opportunities for a good economy and adequate medical care must be readily
available. Every family should build a decent home. The new economic rights to which I have
referred on previous occasions is a charter of economic freedom which seeks to assure that
all who will may work toward their own security and the general advancement; that we become
a well-housed people, a well-nourished people, an educated people, a people socially and economically
secure, an alert and responsible people.

These and other problems which may face us can be met by the cooperation of all of us in furthering
a positive and well-balanced Government program--a program which will further national and
international well-being.

II. THE FEDERAL PROGRAM

INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

I. FOREIGN POLICY

The year 1945 brought with it the final defeat of our enemies. There lies before us now the
work of building a just and enduring peace.

Our most immediate task toward that end is to deprive our enemies completely and forever of
their power to start another war. Of even greater importance to the preservation of international
peace is the need to preserve the wartime agreement of the United Nations and to direct it
into the ways of peace.

Long before our enemies surrendered, the foundations had been laid on which to continue this
unity in the peace to come. The Atlantic meeting in 1941 and the conferences at Casablanca,
Quebec, Moscow, Cairo, Tehran, and Dumbarton Oaks each added a stone to the structure.

Early in 1945, at Yalta, the three major powers broadened and solidified this base of understanding.
There fundamental decisions were reached concerning the occupation and control of Germany.
There also a formula was arrived at for the interim government of the areas in Europe which
were rapidly being wrested from Nazi control. This formula was based on the policy of the United
States that people be permitted to choose their own form of government by their own freely
expressed choice without interference from any foreign source.

At Potsdam, in July 1945, Marshal Stalin, Prime Ministers Churchill and Attlee, and I met to
exchange views primarily with respect to Germany. As a result, agreements were reached which
outlined broadly the policy to be executed by the Allied Control Council. At Potsdam there
was also established a Council of Foreign Ministers which convened for the first time in London
in September. The Council is about to resume its primary assignment of drawing up treaties
of peace with Italy, Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Finland.

In addition to these meetings, and, in accordance with the agreement at Yalta, the Foreign
Ministers of Great Britain, the Soviet Union, and the United States conferred together in San
Francisco last spring, in Potsdam in July, in London in September, and in Moscow in December.
These meetings have been useful in promoting understanding and agreement among the three governments.

Simply to name all the international meetings and conferences is to suggest the size and complexity
of the undertaking to prevent international war in which the United States has now enlisted
for the duration of history.

It is encouraging to know that the common effort of the United Nations to learn to live together
did not cease with the surrender of our enemies.

When difficulties arise among us, the United States does not propose to remove them by sacrificing
its ideals or its vital interests. Neither do we propose, however, to ignore the ideals and
vital interests of our friends.

Last February and March an Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace was held
in Mexico City. Among the many significant accomplishments of that Conference was an understanding
that an attack by any country against any one of the sovereign American republics would be
considered an act of aggression against all of them; and that if such an attack were made or
threatened, the American republics would decide jointly, through consultations in which each
republic has equal representation, what measures they would take for their mutual protection.
This agreement stipulates that its execution shall be in full accord with the Charter of the
United Nations Organization.

The first meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations now in progress in London marks
the real beginning of our bold adventure toward the preservation of world peace, to which is
bound the dearest hope of men.

We have solemnly dedicated ourselves and all our will to the success of the United Nations
Organization. For this reason we have sought to insure that in the peacemaking the smaller
nations shall have a voice as well as the larger states. The agreement reached at Moscow last
month preserves this opportunity in the making of peace with Italy, Rumania, Bulgaria, Hungary,
and Finland. The United States intends to preserve it when the treaties with Germany and Japan
are drawn.

It will be the continuing policy of the United States to use all its influence to foster, support,
and develop the United Nations Organization in its purpose of preventing international war.
If peace is to endure it must rest upon justice no less than upon power. The question is how
justice among nations is best achieved. We know from day-to-day experience that the chance
for a just solution is immeasurably increased when everyone directly interested is given a
voice. That does not mean that each must enjoy an equal voice, but it does mean that each must
be heard.

Last November, Prime Minister Attlee, Prime Minister MacKenzie King, and I announced our proposal
that a commission be established within the framework of the United Nations to explore the
problems of effective international control of atomic energy.

The Soviet Union, France, and China have joined us in the purpose of introducing in the General
Assembly a resolution for the establishment of such a commission. Our earnest wish is that
the work of this commission go forward carefully and thoroughly, but with the greatest dispatch.
I have great hope for the development of mutually effective safeguards which will permit the
fullest international control of this new atomic force.

I believe it possible that effective means can be developed through the United Nations Organization
to prohibit, outlaw, and prevent the use of atomic energy for destructive purposes.

The power which the United States demonstrated during the war is the fact that underlies every
phase of our relations with other countries. We cannot escape the responsibility which it thrusts
upon us. What we think, plan, say, and do is of profound significance to the future of every
corner of the world.

The great and dominant objective of United States foreign policy is to build and preserve a
just peace. The peace we seek is not peace for twenty years. It is permanent peace. At a time
when massive changes are occurring with lightning speed throughout the world, it is often difficult
to perceive how this central objective is best served in one isolated complex situation or
another. Despite this very real difficulty, there are certain basic propositions to which the
United States adheres and to which we shall continue to adhere.

One proposition is that lasting peace requires genuine understanding and active cooperation
among the most powerful nations. Another is that even the support of the strongest nations
cannot guarantee a peace unless it is infused with the quality of justice for all nations.

On October 27, 1945, I made, in New York City, the following public statement of my understanding
of the fundamental foreign policy of the United States. I believe that policy to be in accord
with the opinion of the Congress and of the people of the United States. I believe that that
policy carries out our fundamental objectives.

1. We seek no territorial expansion or selfish advantage. We have no plans for aggression against
any other state, large or small. We have no objective which need clash with the peaceful aims
of any other nation.

2. We believe in the eventual return of sovereign rights and self-government to all peoples
who have been deprived of them by force.

3. We shall approve no territorial changes in any friendly part of the world unless they accord
with the freely expressed wishes of the people concerned.

4. That is true in Europe, in Asia, in Africa, as well as in the Western Hemisphere.

5. By the combined and cooperative action of our war allies, we shall help the defeated enemy
states establish peaceful democratic governments of their own free choice. And we shall try
to attain a world in which nazism, fascism, and military aggression cannot exist.

6. We shall refuse to recognize any government imposed upon any nation by the force of any
foreign power. In some cases it may be impossible to prevent forceful imposition of such a
government. But the United States will not recognize any such government.

7. We believe that all nations should have the freedom of the seas and equal rights to the
navigation of boundary rivers and waterways and of rivers and waterways which pass through
more than one country.

8. We believe that all states which are accepted in the society of nations should have access
on equal terms to the trade and the raw materials of the world.

9. We believe that the sovereign states of the Western Hemisphere, without interference from
outside the Western Hemisphere, must work together as good neighbors in the solution of their
common problems.

10. We believe that full economic collaboration between all nations, great and small, is essential
to the improvement of living conditions all over the world, and to the establishment of freedom
from fear and freedom from want.

11. We shall continue to strive to promote freedom of expression and freedom of religion throughout
the peace-loving areas of the world.

12. We are convinced that the preservation of peace between nations requires a United Nations
Organization composed of all the peace-loving nations of the world who are willing jointly
to use force, if necessary, to insure peace.

That is our foreign policy.

We may not always fully succeed in our objectives. There may be instances where the attainment
of those objectives is delayed. But we will not give our full sanction and approval to actions
which fly in the face of these ideals.

The world has a great stake in the political and economic future of Germany. The Allied Control
Council has now been in operation there for a substantial period of time. It has not met with
unqualified success. The accommodation of varying views of four governments in the day-to-day
civil administration of occupied territory is a challenging task. In my judgment, however,
the Council has made encouraging progress in the face of most serious difficulties. It is my
purpose at the earliest practicable date to transfer from military to civilian personnel the
execution of United States participation in the government of occupied territory in Europe.
We are determined that effective control shall be maintained in Germany until we are satisfied
that the German people have regained the right to a place of honor and respect.

On the other side of the world, a method of international cooperation has recently been agreed
upon for the treatment of Japan. In this pattern of control, the United States, with the full
approval of its partners, has retained primary authority and primary responsibility. It will
continue to do so until the Japanese people, by their own freely expressed choice, choose their
own form of government.

Our basic policy in the Far East is to encourage the development of a strong, independent,
united, and democratic China. That has been the traditional policy of the United States.

At Moscow the United States, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and Great Britain agreed
to further this development by supporting the efforts of the national government and nongovernmental
Chinese political elements in bringing about cessation of civil strife and in broadening the
basis of representation in the Government. That is the policy which General Marshall is so
ably executing today.

It is the purpose of the Government of the United States to proceed as rapidly as is practicable
toward the restoration of the sovereignty of Korea and the establishment of a democratic government
by the free choice of the people of Korea.

At the threshold of every problem which confronts us today in international affairs is the
appalling devastation, hunger, sickness, and pervasive human misery that mark so many areas
of the world.

By joining and participating in the work of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration
the United States has directly recognized and assumed an obligation to give such relief assistance
as is practicable to millions of innocent and helpless victims of the war. The Congress has
earned the gratitude of the world by generous financial contributions to the United Nations
Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.

We have taken the lead, modest though it is, in facilitating under our existing immigration
quotas the admission to the United States of refugees and displaced persons from Europe.

We have joined with Great Britain in the organization of a commission to study the problem
of Palestine. The Commission is already at work and its recommendations will be made at an
early date.

The members of the United Nations have paid us the high compliment of choosing the United States
as the site of the United Nations headquarters. We shall be host in spirit as well as in fact,
for nowhere does there abide a fiercer determination that this peace shall live than in the
hearts of the American people.

It is the hope of all Americans that in time future historians will speak not of World War
I and World War II, but of the first and last world wars.

2. FOREIGN ECONOMIC POLICY

The foreign economic policy of the United States is designed to promote our own prosperity,
and at the same time to aid in the restoration and expansion of world markets and to contribute
thereby to world peace and world security. We shall continue our efforts to provide relief
from the devastation of war, to alleviate the sufferings of displaced persons, to assist in
reconstruction and development, and to promote the expansion of world trade.

We have already joined the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development. We have expanded the Export-Import Bank and provided it with additional capital.
The Congress has renewed the Trade Agreements Act which provides the necessary framework within
which to negotiate a reduction of trade barriers on a reciprocal basis. It has given our support
to the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.

In accordance with the intentions of the Congress, lend-lease, except as to continuing military
lend-lease in China, was terminated upon the surrender of Japan. The first of the lend-lease
settlement agreements has been completed with the United Kingdom. Negotiations with other lend-lease
countries are in progress. In negotiating these agreements, we intend to seek settlements which
will not encumber world trade through war debts of a character that proved to be so detrimental
to the stability of the world economy after the last war.

We have taken steps to dispose of the goods which on VJ-day were in the lend-lease pipe line
to the various lend-lease countries and to allow them long-term credit for the purpose where
necessary. We are also making arrangements under which those countries may use the lend-lease
inventories in their possession and acquire surplus property abroad to assist in their economic
rehabilitation and reconstruction. These goods will be accounted for at fair values.

The proposed loan to the United Kingdom, which I shall recommend to the Congress in a separate
message, will contribute to easing the transition problem of one of our major partners in the
war. It will enable the whole sterling area and other countries affiliated with it to resume
trade on a multilateral basis. Extension of this credit will enable the United Kingdom to avoid
discriminatory trade arrangements of the type which destroyed freedom of trade during the 1930's.
I consider the progress toward multilateral trade which will be achieved by this agreement
to be in itself sufficient warrant for the credit.

The view of this Government is that, in the longer run, our economic prosperity and the prosperity
of the whole world are best served by the elimination of artificial barriers to international
trade, whether in the form of unreasonable tariffs or tariff preferences or commercial quotas
or embargoes or the restrictive practices of cartels.

The United States Government has issued proposals for the expansion of world trade and employment
to which the Government of the United Kingdom has given its support on every important issue.
These proposals are intended to form the basis for a trade and employment conference to be
held in the middle of this year. If that conference is a success, I feel confident that the
way will have been adequately prepared for an expanded and prosperous world trade.

We shall also continue negotiations looking to the full and equitable development of facilities
for transportation and communications among nations.

The vast majority of the nations of the world have chosen to work together to achieve, on a
cooperative basis, world security and world prosperity. The effort cannot succeed without full
cooperation of the United States. To play our part, we must not only resolutely carry out the
foreign policies we have adopted but also follow a domestic policy which will maintain full
production and employment in the United States. A serious depression here can disrupt the whole
fabric of the world economy.

3. OCCUPIED COUNTRIES

The major tasks of our Military Establishment in Europe following VE-day, and in the Pacific
since the surrender of Japan, have been those of occupation and military government. In addition
we have given much needed aid to the peoples of the liberated countries.

The end of the war in Europe found Germany in a chaotic condition. Organized government had
ceased to exist, transportation systems had been wrecked, cities and industrial facilities
had been bombed into ruins. In addition to the tasks of occupation we had to assume all of
the functions of government. Great progress has been made in the repatriation of displaced
persons and of prisoners of war. Of the total of 3,500,000 displaced persons found in the United
States zone only 460,000 now remain.

The extensive complications involved by the requirement of dealing with three other governments
engaged in occupation and with the governments of liberated countries require intensive work
and energetic cooperation. The influx of some 2 million German refugees into our zone of occupation
is a pressing problem, making exacting demands upon an already overstrained internal economy.

Improvements in the European economy during 1945 have made it possible for our military authorities
to relinquish to the governments of all liberated areas, or to the United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration, the responsibility for the provision of food and other civilian
relief supplies. The Army's responsibilities in Europe extend now only to our zones of occupation
in Germany and Austria and to two small areas in northern Italy.

By contrast with Germany, in Japan we have occupied a country still possessing an organized
and operating governmental system. Although severely damaged, the Japanese industrial and transportation
systems have been able to insure at least a survival existence for the population. The repatriation
of Japanese military and civilian personnel from overseas is proceeding as rapidly as shipping
and other means permit.

In order to insure that neither Germany nor Japan will again be in a position to wage aggressive
warfare, the armament making potential of these countries is being dismantled and fundamental
changes in their social and political structures are being effected. Democratic systems are
being fostered to the end that the voice of the common man may be heard in the councils of
his government.

For the first time in history the legal culpability of war makers is being determined. The
trials now in progress in Nurnberg-and those soon to begin in Tokyo--bring before the bar of
international justice those individuals who are charged with the responsibility for the sufferings
of the past six years. We have high hope that this public portrayal of the guilt of these evildoers
will bring wholesale and permanent revulsion on the part of the masses of our former enemies
against war, militarism, aggression, and notions of race superiority.

4. DEMOBILIZATION OF OUR ARMED FORCES

The cessation of active campaigning does not mean that we can completely disband our fighting
forces. For their sake and for the sake of their loved ones at home, I wish that we could.
But we still have the task of clinching the victories we have won--of making certain that Germany
and Japan can never again wage aggressive warfare, that they will not again have the means
to bring on another world war. The performance of that task requires that, together with our
allies, we occupy the hostile areas, complete the disarmament of our enemies, and take the
necessary measures to see to it that they do not rearm.

As quickly as possible, we are bringing about the reduction of our armed services to the size
required for these tasks of occupation and disarmament. The Army and the Navy are following
both length-of-service and point systems as far as possible in releasing men and women from
the service. The points are based chiefly on length and character of service, and on the existence
of dependents.

Over 5 million from the Army have already passed through the separation centers.

The Navy, including the Marine Corps and the Coast Guard, has discharged over one and a half
million.

Of the 12 million men and women serving in the Army and Navy at the time of the surrender of
Germany, one-half have already been released. The greater part of these had to be brought back
to this country from distant parts of the world.

Of course there are cases of individual hardship in retention of personnel in the service.
There will be in the future. No system of such size can operate to perfection. But the systems
are rounded on fairness and justice, and they are working at full speed. We shall try to avoid
mistakes, injustices, and hardship--as far as humanly possible.

We have already reached the point where shipping is no longer the bottleneck in the return
of troops from the European theater. The governing factor now has become the requirement for
troops in sufficient strength to carry out their missions.

In a few months the same situation will exist in the Pacific. By the end of June, 9 out of
10 who were serving in the armed forces on VE-day will have been released. Demobilization will
continue thereafter, but at a slower rate, determined by our military responsibilities.

Our national safety and the security of the world will require substantial armed forces, particularly
in overseas service. At the same time it is imperative that we relieve those who have already
done their duty, and that we relieve them as fast as we can. To do that, the Army and the Navy
are conducting recruiting drives with considerable success.

The Army has obtained nearly 400,000 volunteers in the past four months, and the Navy has obtained
80,000. Eighty percent of these volunteers for the regular service have come from those already
with the colors. The Congress has made it possible to offer valuable inducements to those who
are eligible for enlistment. Every effort will be made to enlist the required number of young men.

The War and Navy Departments now estimate that by a year from now we still will need a strength
of about 2 million including officers, for the armed forces--Army, Navy, and Air. I have reviewed
their estimates and believe that the safety of the Nation will require the maintenance of an
armed strength of this size for the calendar year that is before us.

In case the campaign for volunteers does not produce that number, it will be necessary by additional
legislation to extend the Selective Service Act beyond May 16, the date of expiration under
existing law. That is the only way we can get the men and bring back our veterans. There is
no other way. Action along this line should not be postponed beyond March, in order to avoid
uncertainty and disruption.

DOMESTIC AFFAIRS

I. THE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK

Prophets of doom predicted that the United States could not escape a runaway inflation during
the war and an economic collapse after the war. These predictions have not been borne out.
On the contrary, the record of economic stabilization during the war and during the period
of reconversion has been an outstanding accomplishment.

We know, however, that nothing is as dangerous as overconfidence, in war or in peace. We have
had to fight hard to hold the line. We have made strenuous efforts to speed reconversion. But
neither the danger of a postwar inflation nor of a subsequent collapse in production and employment
is yet overcome. We must base our policies not on unreasoning optimism or pessimism but upon
a candid recognition of our objectives and upon a careful analysis of foreseeable trends.

Any precise appraisal of the economic outlook at this time is particularly difficult. The period
of demobilization and reconversion is fraught with uncertainties. There are also serious gaps
in our statistical information. Certain tendencies are, however, fairly clear and recognition
of them should serve as background for the consideration of next year's Federal Program. In
general, the outlook for business is good, and it is likely to continue to be good--provided
we control inflation and achieve peace in management labor relations.

Civilian production and employment can be expected to increase throughout the next year. This
does not mean, however, that continuing full employment is assured. It is probable that demobilization
of the armed forces will proceed faster than the increase in civilian employment opportunities.
Even if substantial further withdrawals from the labor market occur, unemployment will increase
temporarily. The extent to which this unemployment will persist depends largely on the speed
of industrial expansion and the effectiveness of the policies of the Federal Government.

Along with extraordinary demand there are still at this time many critical shortages resulting
from the war. These extraordinary demands and shortages may lead to a speculative boom, especially
in the price of securities, real estate, and inventories.

Therefore, our chief worry still is inflation. While we control this inflationary pressure
we must look forward to the time when this extraordinary demand will subside. It will be years
before we catch up with the demand for housing. The extraordinary demand for other durable
goods, for the replenishment of inventories, and for exports may be satisfied earlier. No backlog
of demand can exist very long in the face of our tremendous productive capacity. We must expect
again to face the problem of shrinking demand and consequent slackening in sales, production,
and employment. This possibility of a deflationary spiral in the future will exist unless we
now plan and adopt an effective full employment program.

2. GENERAL POLICIES--IMMEDIATE AND LONG-RANGE

During the war, production for civilian use was limited by war needs and available manpower.
Economic stabilization required measures, to spread limited supplies equitably by rationing,
price controls, increased taxes, savings bond campaigns, and credit controls. Now, with the
surrender of our enemies, economic stabilization requires that policies be directed toward
promoting an increase in supplies at low unit prices.

We must encourage the development of resources and enterprises in all parts of the country,
particularly in underdeveloped areas. For example, the establishment of new peacetime industries
in the Western States and in the South would, in my judgment, add to existing production and
markets rather than merely bring about a shifting of production. I am asking the Secretaries
of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor to explore jointly methods for stimulating new industries,
particularly in areas with surplus agricultural labor.

We must also aid small businessmen and particularly veterans who are competent to start their
own businesses. The establishment and development of efficient small business ventures, I believe,
will not take away from, but rather will add to, the total business of all enterprises.

Even with maximum encouragement of Production, we cannot hope to remove scarcities within a
short time. The most serious deficiencies will persist in the fields of residential housing,
building materials, and consumers' durable goods. The critical situation makes continued rent
control, price control, and priorities, allocations, and inventory controls absolutely essential.
Continued control of consumer credit will help to reduce the pressure on prices of durable
goods and will also prolong the period during which the backlog demand will be effective.

While we are meeting these immediate needs we must look forward to a long-range program of
security and increased standard of living.

The best protection of purchasing power is a policy of full production and full employment
opportunities. Obviously, an employed worker is a better customer than an unemployed worker.
There always will be, however, some frictional unemployment. In the present period of transition
we must deal with such temporary unemployment as results from the fact that demobilization
will proceed faster than reconversion or industrial expansion. Such temporary unemployment
is probably unavoidable in a period of rapid change. The unemployed worker is a victim of conditions
beyond his control. He should be enabled to maintain a reasonable standard of living for himself
and his family.

The most serious difficulty in the path of reconversion and expansion is the establishment
of a fair wage structure.

The ability of labor and management to work together, and the wage and price policies which
they develop, are social and economic issues of first importance.

Both labor and management have a special interest. Labor's interest is very direct and personal
because working conditions, wages, and prices affect the very life and happiness of the worker
and his family.

Management has a no less direct interest because on management rests the responsibility for
conducting a growing and prosperous business.

But management and labor have identical interests in the long run. Good wages mean good markets.
Good business means more jobs and better wages. In this age of cooperation and in our highly
organized economy the problems of one very soon become the problems of all.

Better human relationships are an urgent need to which organized labor and management should
address themselves. No government policy can make men understand each other, agree, and get
along unless they conduct themselves in a way to foster mutual respect and good will.

The Government can, however, help to develop machinery which, with the backing of public opinion,
will assist labor and management to resolve their disagreements in a peaceful manner and reduce
the number and duration of strikes.

All of us realize that productivity--increased output per man--is in the long run the basis
of our standard of living. Management especially must realize that if labor is to work wholeheartedly
for an increase in production, workers must be given a just share of increased output in higher
wages.

Most industries and most companies have adequate leeway within which to grant substantial wage
increases. These increases will have a direct effect in increasing consumer demand to the high
levels needed. Substantial wage increases are good business for business because they assure
a large market for their products; substantial wage increases are good business for labor because
they increase labor's standard of living; substantial wage increases are good business for
the country as a whole because capacity production means an active, healthy, friendly citizenry
enjoying the benefits of democracy under our free enterprise system.

Labor and management in many industries have been operating successfully under the Government's
wage-price policy. Upward revisions of wage scales have been made in thousands of establishments
throughout the Nation since VJ-day. It is estimated that about 6 million workers, or more than
20 percent of all employees in nonagricultural and nongovernmental establishments, have received
wage increases since August 18, 1945. The amounts of increases given by individual employers
concentrate between 10 and 15 percent, but range from less than 5 percent to over 30 percent.

The United States Conciliation Service since VJ-day has settled over 3,000 disputes affecting
over 1,300,000 workers without a strike threat and has assisted in settling about 1,300 disputes
where strikes were threatened which involved about 500,000 workers. Only workers directly involved,
and not those in related industries who might have been indirectly affected, are included in
these estimates.

Many of these adjustments have occurred in key industries and would have seemed to us major
crises if they had not been settled peaceably.

Within the framework of the wage-price policy there has been definite success, and it is to
be expected that this success will continue in a vast majority of the cases arising in the
months ahead.

However, everyone who realizes the extreme need for a swift and orderly reconversion must feel
a deep concern about the number of major strikes now in progress. If long continued, these
strikes could put a heavy brake on our program.

I have already made recommendations to the Congress as to the procedure best adapted to meeting
the threat of work stoppages in Nation-wide industries without sacrificing the fundamental
rights of labor to bargain collectively and ultimately to strike in support of their position.

If we manage our economy properly, the future will see us on a level of production half again
as high as anything we have ever accomplished in peacetime. Business can in the future pay
higher wages and sell for lower prices than ever before. This is not true now for all companies,
nor will it ever be true for all, but for business generally it is true.

We are relying on all concerned to develop, through collective bargaining, wage structures
that are fair to labor, allow for necessary business incentives, and conform with a policy
designed to "hold the line" on prices.

Production and more production was the byword during the war and still is during the transition
from war to peace. However, when deferred demand slackens, we shall once again face the deflationary
dangers which beset this and other countries during the 1930's. Prosperity can be assured only
by a high level of demand supported by high current income; it cannot be sustained by deferred
needs and use of accumulated savings.

If we take the right steps in time we can certainly avoid the disastrous excesses of runaway
booms and headlong depressions. We must not let a year or two of prosperity lull us into a
false feeling of security and a repetition of the mistakes of the 1920's that culminated in
the crash of 1929.

During the year ahead the Government will be called upon to act in many important fields of
economic policy from taxation and foreign trade to social security and housing. In every case
there will be alternatives. We must choose the alternatives which will best measure up to our
need for maintaining production and employment in the future. We must never lose sight of our
long-term objectives: the broadening of markets--the maintenance of steadily rising demand.
This demand can come from only three sources: consumers, businesses, or government.

In this country the job of production and distribution is in the hands of businessmen, farmers,
workers, and professional people-in the hands of our citizens. We want to keep it that way.
However, it is the Government's responsibility to help business, labor, and farmers do their jobs.

There is no question in my mind that the Government, acting on behalf of all the people, must
assume the ultimate responsibility for the economic health of the Nation. There is no other
agency that can. No other organization has the scope or the authority, nor is any other agency
accountable, to all the people. This does not mean that the Government has the sole responsibility,
nor that it can do the job alone, nor that it can do the job directly.

All of the policies of the Federal Government must be geared to the objective of sustained
full production and full employment-to raise consumer purchasing power and to encourage business
investment. The programs we adopt this year and from now on will determine our ability to achieve
our objectives. We must continue to pay particular attention to our fiscal, monetary, and tax
policy, programs to aid business--especially small business--and transportation, labor-management
relations and wage-price policy, social security and health, education, the farm program, public
works, housing and resource development, and economic foreign policy.

For example, the kinds of tax measures we have at different times--whether we raise our revenue
in a way to encourage consumer spending and business investment or to discourage it--have a
vital bearing on this question. It is affected also by regulations on consumer credit and by
the money market, which is strongly influenced by the rate of interest on Government securities.
It is affected by almost every step we take.

In short, the way we handle the proper functions of government, the way we time the exercise
of our traditional and legitimate governmental functions, has a vital bearing on the economic
health of the Nation.

These policies are discussed in greater detail in the accompanying Fifth Quarterly Report of
the Director of War Mobilization and Reconversion.

3. LEGISLATION HERETOFORE RECOMMENDED

AND STILL PENDING

To attain some of these objectives and to meet the other needs of the United States in the
reconversion and postwar period, I have from time to time made various recommendations to the
Congress.

In making these recommendations I have indicated the reasons why I deemed them essential for
progress at home and abroad. A few--a very few--of these recommendations have been enacted
into law by the Congress. Most of them have not. I here reiterate some of them, and discuss
others later in this Message. I urge upon the Congress early consideration of them. Some are
more urgent than others, but all are necessary.

(1) Legislation to authorize the President to create fact-finding boards for the prevention
of stoppages of work in Nationwide industries after collective bargaining and conciliation
and voluntary arbitration have failed--as recommended by me on December 3, 1945.

(2) Enactment of a satisfactory full employment bill such as the Senate bill now in conference
between the Senate and the House--as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(3) Legislation to supplement the unemployment insurance benefits for unemployed workers now
provided by the different States--as recommended by me on May 1945.

(4) Adoption of a permanent Fair Employment Practice Act--as recommended by me on September
6, 1945.

(5) Legislation substantially raising the amount of minimum wages now provided by law--as recommended
by me on September 6, 1945.

(6) Legislation providing for a comprehensive program for scientific research--as recommended
by me on September 6, 1945.

(7) Legislation enacting a health and medical care program--as recommended by me on November
19, 1945.

(8) Legislation adopting the program of universal training--as recommended by me on October
23, 1945.

(9) Legislation providing an adequate salary scale for all Government employees in all branches
of the Government--as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(10) Legislation making provision for succession to the Presidency in the event of the death
or incapacity or disqualification of the President and Vice President--as recommended by me
on June 19, 1945.

(11) Legislation for the unification of the armed services--as recommended by me on December
19, 1945.

(12) Legislation for the domestic use and control of atomic energy--as recommended by me on
October 3, 1945.

(13) Retention of the United States Employment Service in the Federal Government for a period
at least up to June 30, 1947--as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(14) Legislation to increase unemployment allowances for veterans in line with increases for
civilians--as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(15) Social security coverage for veterans for their period of military service--as recommended
by me on September 6, 1945.

(16) Extension of crop insurance--as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(17) Legislation permitting the sale of ships by the Maritime Commission at home and abroad--as
recommended by me on September 6, 1945. I further recommend that this legislation include adequate
authority for chartering vessels both here and abroad.

(18) Legislation to take care of the stock piling of materials in which the United States is
naturally deficient--as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(19) Enactment of Federal airport legislation-as recommended by me on September 6, 1945.

(20) Legislation repealing the Johnson Act on foreign loans--as recommended by me on September
6, 1945.

(21) Legislation for the development of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin-as recommended
by me on October 3, 1945.

4. POLICIES IN SPECIFIC FIELDS

(a) Extension of Price Control Act.

Today inflation is our greatest immediate domestic problem. So far the fight against inflation
has been waged successfully. Since May 1943, following President Roosevelt's "hold the line"
order and in the face of the greatest pressures which this country has ever seen, the cost
of living index has risen only three percent. Wholesale prices in this same period have been
held to an increase of two and one-half percent.

This record has been made possible by the vigorous efforts of the agencies responsible for
this program. But their efforts would have been fruitless if they had not had the solid support
of the great masses of our people. The Congress is to be congratulated for its role in providing
the legislation under which this work has been carried out.

On VJ-day it was clear to all thinking people that the danger of inflation was by no means
over. Many of us can remember vividly our disastrous experience following World War I. Then
the very restricted wartime controls were lifted too quickly, and as a result prices and rents
moved more rapidly upward. In the year and a half following the armistice, rents, food, and
clothing shot to higher and still higher levels.

When the inevitable crash occurred less than two years after the end of the war, business bankruptcies
were widespread. Profits were wiped out. Inventory losses amounted to billions of dollars.
Farm income dropped by one-half. Factory pay rolls dropped 40 percent, and nearly one-fifth
of all our industrial workers were walking the streets in search of jobs. This was a grim greeting,
indeed, to offer our veterans who had just returned from overseas.

When I addressed the Congress in September, I emphasized that we must continue to hold the
price line until the production of goods caught up with the tremendous demands. Since then
we have seen demonstrated the strength of the inflationary pressures which we have to face.

Retail sales in the closing months of 1945 ran 12 percent above the previous peak for that
season, which came in 1944. Prices throughout the entire economy have been pressing hard against
the price ceilings. The prices of real estate, which cannot now be controlled under the law,
are rising rapidly. Commercial rents are not included in the present price control law and,
where they are not controlled by State law, have been increasing, causing difficulties to many
businessmen.

It will be impossible to maintain a high purchasing power or an expanding production unless
we can keep prices at levels which can be met by the vast majority of our people. Full production
is the greatest weapon against inflation, but until we can produce enough goods to meet the
threat of inflation the Government will have to exercise its wartime control over prices.

I am sure that the people of the United States are disturbed by the demands made by several
business groups with regard to price and rent control.

I am particularly disturbed at the effect such thinking may have on production and employment.
If manufacturers continue to hold back goods and decline to submit bids when invited--as I
am informed some are doing--in anticipation of higher prices which would follow the end of
price controls, we shall inevitably slow down production and create needless unemployment.
On the other hand, there are the vast majority of American businessmen who are not holding
back goods, but who need certainty about the Government pricing policy in order to fix their
own long-range pricing policies.

Businessmen are entitled therefore to a dear statement of the policy of the Government on the
subject. Tenants and housewives, farmers and workers--consumers in general--have an equal right.

We are all anxious to eliminate unnecessary controls just as rapidly as we can do so. The steps
that we have already taken in many directions toward that end are a clear indication of our policy.

The present Price Control Act expires on June 30, 1946. If we expect to maintain a steady economy
we shall have to maintain price and rent control for many months to come. The inflationary
pressures on prices and rents, with relatively few exceptions, are now at an all-time peak.
Unless the Price Control Act is renewed there will be no limit to which our price levels would
soar. Our country would face a national disaster.

We cannot wait to renew the act until immediately before it expires. Inflation results from
psychological as well as economic conditions. The country has a clear right to know where the
Congress stands on this all-important problem. Any uncertainty now as to whether the act will
be extended gives rise to price speculation, to withholding of goods from the market in anticipation
of rising prices, and to delays in achieving maximum production.

I do not doubt that the Congress will be beset by many groups who will urge that the legislation
that I have proposed should either be eliminated or modified to the point where it is nearly
useless. The Congress has a clear responsibility to meet this challenge with courage and determination.
I have every confidence that it will do so.

I strongly urge that the Congress now resolve all doubts and as soon as possible adopt legislation
continuing rent and price control in effect for a full year from June 30, 1946.

(b) Food subsidies.

If the price line is to be held, if our people are to be protected against the inflationary
dangers which confront us, we must do more than extend the Price Control Act. In September
we were hopeful that the inflationary pressures would by this time have begun to diminish.
We were particularly hopeful on food. Indeed, it was estimated that food prices at retail would
drop from 3 to 5 percent in the first six months following the end of the war.

In anticipation of this decline in food prices, it was our belief that food subsidies could
be removed gradually during the winter and spring months, and eliminated almost completely
by June 30 of this year. It was our feeling that the food subsidies could be dropped without
an increase to the consumer in the present level of food prices or in the over-all cost of living.

As matters stand today, however, food prices are pressing hard against the ceilings. The expected
decline in food prices has not occurred, nor is it likely to occur for many months to come.
This brings me to the reluctant conclusion that food subsidies must be continued beyond June
30, 1946.

If we fail to take this necessary step, meat prices on July 1 will be from 3 to 5 cents higher
than their average present levels; butter will be at least 12 cents a pound higher, in addition
to the 5 cents a pound increase of last fall; milk will increase from 1 to 2 cents a quart;
bread will increase about 1 cent a loaf; sugar will increase over 1 cent a pound; cheese, in
addition to the increase of 4 cents now planned for the latter part of this month, will go
up an additional 8 cents. In terms of percentages we may find the cost-of-living index for
food increased by more than 8 percent, which in turn would result in more than a 3-percent
increase in the cost of living.

If prices of food were allowed to increase by these amounts, I must make it clear to the Congress
that, in my opinion, it would become extremely difficult for us to control the forces of inflation.

None of us likes subsidies. Our farmers, in particular, have always been opposed to them.

But I believe our farmers are as deeply conscious as any group in the land of the havoc which
inflation can create. Certainly in the past eighteen months there has been no group which has
fought any harder in support of the Government's price control program. I am confident that,
if the facts are placed before them and if they see clearly the evils between which we are
forced to choose, they will understand the reasons why subsidies must be continued.

The legislation continuing the use of food subsidies into the new fiscal year should be tied
down specifically to certain standards. A very proper requirement, in my opinion, would be
that subsidies be removed as soon as it is indicated that the cost of living will decline below
the present levels.

(c) Extension of War Powers Act.

The Second War Powers Act has recently been extended by the Congress for six months instead
of for a year. It will now expire, unless further extended, on June 30, 1946. This act is the
basis for priority and inventory controls governing the use of scarce materials, as well as
for other powers essential to orderly reconversion.

I think that this Administration has given adequate proof of the fact that it desires to eliminate
wartime controls as quickly and as expeditiously as possible. However, we know that there will
continue to be shortages of certain materials caused by the war even after June 30, 1946. It
is important that businessmen know now that materials in short supply are going to be controlled
and distributed fairly as long as these war-born shortages continue.

I, therefore, urge the Congress soon to extend the Second War Powers Act. We cannot afford
to wait until just before the act expires next June. To wait would cause the controls to break
down in a short time, and would hamper our production and employment program.

(d) Small business and competition.

A rising birth rate for small business, and a favorable environment for its growth, are not
only economic necessities but also important practical demonstrations of opportunity in a democratic
free society. A great many veterans and workers with new skills and experience will want to
start in for themselves. The opportunity must be afforded them to do so. They are the small
businessmen of the future.

Actually when we talk about small business we are talking about almost all of the Nation's
individual businesses. Nine out of every ten concerns fall into this category, and 45 percent
of all workers are employed by them. Between 30 and 40 percent of the total value of all business
transactions are handled by small business.

It is obvious national policy to foster the sound development of small business. It helps to
maintain high levels of employment and national income and consumption of the goods and services
that the Nation can produce. It encourages the competition that keeps our free enterprise economy
vigorous and expanding. Small business, because of its flexibility, assists in the rapid exploitation
of scientific and technological discoveries. Investment in small business can absorb a large
volume of savings that might otherwise not be tapped.

The Government should encourage and is encouraging small-business initiative and originality
to stimulate progress through competition.

During the war, the Smaller War Plants Corporation assisted small concerns to make a maximum
contribution to victory. The work of the Smaller War Plants Corporation is being carried on
in peacetime by the Federal Loan Agency and the Department of Commerce. The fundamental approach
to the job of encouraging small concerns must be based on:

1. Arrangements for making private and public financial resources available on reasonable terms.

2. Provision of technical advice and assistance to business as a whole on production, research,
and management problems. This will help equalize competitive relationships between large and
small companies, for many of the small companies cannot afford expensive technical research,
accounting, and tax advice.

3. Elimination of trade practices and agreements which reduce competition and discriminate
against new or small enterprises.

We speak a great deal about the free enterprise economy of our country. It is competition that
keeps it free. It is competition that keeps it growing and developing. The truth is that we
need far more competition in the future than we have had in the immediate past.

By strangling competition, monopolistic activity prevents or deters investment in new or expanded
production facilities. This lessens the opportunity for employment and chokes off new outlets
for idle savings. Monopoly maintains prices at artificially high levels and reduces consumption
which, with lower prices, would rise and support larger production and higher employment. Monopoly,
not being subject to competitive pressure, is slow to take advantage of technical advances
which would lower prices or improve quality. All three of these monopolistic activities very
directly lower the standard of living--through higher prices and lower quality of product--which
free competition would improve.

The Federal Government must protect legitimate business and consumers from predatory and monopolistic
practices by the vigilant enforcement of regulatory legislation. The program will be designed
to have a maximum impact upon monopolistic bottlenecks and unfair competitive practices hindering
expansion in employment.

During the war, enforcement of antimonopoly laws was suspended in a number of fields. The Government
must now take major steps not only to maintain enforcement of antitrust laws but to encourage
new and competing enterprises in every way. The deferred demand of the war years and the large
accumulations of liquid assets provide ample incentive for expansion. Equalizing of business
opportunity, under full and free competition, must be a prime responsibility in the reconversion
period and in the years that follow. Many leading businessmen have recognized the importance
of such action both to themselves and to the economy as a whole.

But we must do more than break up trusts and monopolies after they have begun to strangle competition.
We must take positive action to foster new, expanding enterprises. By legislation and by administration
we must take specific steps to discourage the formation or the strengthening of competition-restricting
business. We must have an over-all antimonopoly policy which can be applied by all agencies
of the Government in exercising the functions assigned to them--a policy designed to encourage
the formation and growth of new and freely competitive enterprises.

Among the many departments and agencies which have parts in the program affecting business
and competition, the Department of Commerce has a particularly important role. That is why
I have recommended a substantial increase in appropriations for the next fiscal year for this
Department.

In its assistance to industry, the Department of Commerce will concentrate its efforts on these
primary objectives: Promotion of a large and well-balanced foreign trade; provision of improved
technical assistance and management aids, especially for small enterprises; and strengthening
of basic statistics on business operations, both by industries and by regions. To make new
inventions and discoveries available more promptly to all businesses, small and large, the
Department proposes to expand its own research activities, promote research by universities,
improve Patent Office procedures, and develop a greatly expanded system of field offices readily
accessible to the businesses they serve.

Many gaps exist in the private financial mechanism, especially in the provision of long-term
funds for small- and medium sized enterprises. In the peacetime economy the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation will take the leadership in assuring adequate financing for small enterprises
which cannot secure funds from other sources. Most of the funds should and will be provided
by private lenders; but the Reconstruction Finance Corporation will share any unusual risks
through guarantees of private loans, with direct loans only when private capital is unwilling
to participate on a reasonable basis.

(e) Minimum wage.

Full employment and full production may be achieved only by maintaining a level of consumer
income far higher than that of the prewar period. A high level of consumer income will maintain
the market for the output of our mills, farms, and factories, which we have demonstrated during
the war years that we can produce. One of the basic steps which the Congress can take to establish
a high level of consumer income is to amend the Fair Labor Standards Act to raise substandard
wages to a decent minimum and to extend similar protection to additional workers who are not
covered by the present act.

Substandard wages are bad for business and for the farmer. Substandard wages provide only a
substandard market for the goods and services produced by American industry and agriculture.

At the present time the Fair Labor Standards Act prescribes a minimum wage of 40 cents an hour
for those workers who are covered by the act. The present minimum wage represents an annual
income of about $800 to those continuously employed for 50 weeks--clearly a wholly inadequate
budget for an American family. I am in full accord with the proposal now pending in the Congress
that the statutory minimum be raised immediately to 65 cents an hour, with further increases
to 70 cents after one year and to 75 cents after two years. I also favor the proposal that
the industry committee procedure be used to set rates higher than 65 cents per hour during
the two-year interval before the 75-cent basic wage would otherwise become applicable.

The proposed minimum wage of 65 cents an hour would assure the worker an annual income of about
$1,300 a year in steady employment. This amount is clearly a modest goal. After considering
cost-of-living increases in recent years, it is little more than a 10-cent increase over the
present legal minimum. In fact, if any large number of workers earn less than this amount,
we will find it impossible to maintain the levels of purchasing power needed to sustain the
stable prosperity which we desire. Raising the minimum to 75 cents an hour will provide the
wage earner with an annual income of $1,500 if he is fully employed.

The proposed higher minimum wage levels are feasible without involving serious price adjustments
or serious geographic dislocations.

Today about 20 percent of our manufacturing wage earners--or about 2 million-earn less than
65 cents an hour. Because wages in most industries have risen during the war, this is about
the same as the proportion-17 percent--who were earning less than 40 cents an hour in 1941.

I also recommend that minimum wage protection be extended to several groups of workers not
now covered. The need for a decent standard of living is by no means limited to those workers
who happen to be covered by the act as it now stands. It is particularly vital at this period
of readjustment in the national economy and readjustment in employment of labor to extend minimum
wage protection as far as possible.

Lifting the basic minimum wage is necessary, it is justified as a matter of simple equity to
workers, and it will prove not only feasible but also directly beneficial to the Nation's employers.

(f) Agricultural programs.

The farmers of America generally are entering the crop year of 1946 in better financial condition
than ever before. Farm mortgage debt is the lowest in 30 years. Farmers' savings are the largest
in history. Our agricultural plant is in much better condition than after World War I. Farm
machinery and supplies are expected to be available in larger volume, and farm labor problems
will be less acute.

The demand for farm products will continue strong during the next year or two because domestic
purchases will be supplemented by a high level of exports and foreign relief shipments. It
is currently estimated that from 7 to 10 percent of the total United States food supply may
be exported in the calendar year 1946.

Farm prices are expected to remain at least at their present levels in the immediate future,
and for at least the next 12 months they are expected to yield a net farm income double the
1935-39 average and higher than in any year prior to 1943.

We can look to the future of agriculture with greater confidence than in many a year in the
past. Agriculture itself is moving confidently ahead, planning for another year of big production,
taking definite and positive steps to lead the way toward an economy of abundance.

Agricultural production goals for 1946 call for somewhat greater acreage than actually was
planted in 1945. Agriculture is prepared to demonstrate that it can make a peacetime contribution
as great as its contribution toward the winning of the war.

In spite of supplying our armed forces and our allies during the war with a fifth to a fourth
of our total food output, farmers were still able to provide our civilians with 8 percent more
food per capita than the average for the five years preceding the war. Since the surrender
of Japan, civilian food consumption has risen still further. By the end of 1945 the amount
of the increase in food consumption was estimated to be as high as 15 percent over the prewar
average. The record shows that the people of this country want and need more food and that
they will buy more food if only they have the jobs and the purchasing power. The first essential
therefore in providing fully for the welfare of agriculture is to maintain full employment
and a high level of purchasing power throughout the Nation.

For the period immediately ahead we shall still have the problem of supplying enough food.
If we are to do our part in aiding the war-stricken and starving countries some of the food
desires of our own people will not be completely satisfied, at least until these nations have
had an opportunity to harvest another crop. During the next few months the need for food in
the world will be more serious than at any time during the war. And, despite the large shipments
we have already made, and despite what we shall send, there remain great needs abroad.

Beyond the relief feeding period, there will still be substantial foreign outlets for our farm
commodities. The chief dependence of the farmer, however, as always, must be upon the buying
power of our own people.

The first obligation of the Government to agriculture for the reconversion period is to make
good on its price-support commitments. This we intend to do, with realistic consideration for
the sound patterns of production that will contribute most to the long-time welfare of agriculture
and the whole Nation. The period during which prices are supported will provide an opportunity
for farmers individually to strengthen their position in changing over from a wartime to a
peacetime basis of production. It will provide an opportunity for the Congress to review the
needs of agriculture and make changes in national legislation where experience has shown changes
to be needed. In this connection, the Congress will wish to consider legislation to take the
place of the 1937 Sugar Act which expires at the end of this year. During this period we must
do a thorough job of basic planning to the end that agriculture shall be able to contribute
its full share toward a healthy national economy.

Our long-range agricultural policies should have two main objectives: First, to assure the
people on the farms a fair share of the national income; and, second, to encourage an agricultural
production pattern that is best fitted to the Nation's needs. To accomplish this second objective
we shall have to take into consideration changes that have taken place and will continue to
take place in the production of farm commodities--changes that affect costs and efficiency
and volume.

What we seek ultimately is a high level of food production and consumption that will provide
good nutrition for everyone. This cannot be accomplished by agriculture alone. We can be certain
of our capacity to produce food, but we have often failed to distribute it as well as we should
and to see that our people can afford to buy it. The way to get good nutrition for the whole
Nation is to provide employment opportunities and purchasing power for all groups that will
enable them to buy full diets at market prices.

Wherever purchasing power fails to reach this level we should see that they have some means
of getting adequate food at prices in line with their ability to buy. Therefore, we should
have available supplementary programs that will enable all our people to have enough of the
right kind of food.

For example, one of the best possible contributions toward building a stronger, healthier Nation
would be a permanent school-lunch program on a scale adequate to assure every school child
a good lunch at noon. The Congress, of course, has recognized this need for a continuing school-lunch
program and legislation to that effect has been introduced and hearings held. The plan contemplates
the attainment of this objective with a minimum of Federal expenditures. I hope that the legislation
will be enacted in time for a permanent program to start with the beginning of the school year
next fall.

We have the technical knowledge and the productive capacity to provide plenty of good food
for every man, woman, and child in the United States. It is time we made that possibility a
reality.

(g) Resource development.

The strength of our Nation and the welfare of the people rest upon the natural resources of
the country. We have learned that proper conservation of our lands, including our forests and
minerals, and wise management of our waters will add immensely to our national wealth.

The first step in the Government's conservation program must be to find out just what are our
basic resources, and how they should be used. We need to take, as soon as possible, an inventory
of the lands, the minerals, and the forests of the Nation.

During the war it was necessary to curtail some of our long-range plans for development of
our natural resources, and to emphasize programs vital to the prosecution of the war. Work
was suspended on a number of flood control and reclamation projects and on the development
of our national forests and parks. This work must now be resumed, and new projects must be
undertaken to provide essential services and to assist in the process of economic development.

The rivers of America offer a great opportunity to our generation in the management of the
national wealth. By a wise use of Federal funds, most of which will be repaid into the Treasury,
the scourge of floods and drought can be curbed, water can be brought to arid lands, navigation
can be extended, and cheap power can be brought alike to the farms and to the industries of
our land.

Through the use of the waters of the Columbia River, for example, we are creating a rich agricultural
area as large as the State of Delaware. At the same time, we are producing power at Grand Coulee
and at Bonneville which played a mighty part in winning the war and which will found a great
peacetime industry in the Northwest. The Tennessee Valley Authority will resume its peacetime
program of promoting full use of the resources of the Valley. We shall continue our plans for
the development of the Missouri Valley, the Arkansas Valley, and the Central Valley of California.

The Congress has shown itself alive to the practical requirements for a beneficial use of our
water resources by providing that preference in the sale of power be given to farmers' cooperatives
and public agencies. The public power program thus authorized must continue to be made effective
by building the necessary generating and transmission facilities to furnish the maximum of
firm power needed at the wholesale markets, which are often distant from the dam sites.

These great developmental projects will open the frontiers of agriculture, industry, and commerce.
The employment opportunities thus offered will also go far to ease the transition from war
to peace.

(h) Public works.

During the war even urgently needed Federal, State, and local construction projects were deferred
in order to release sources for war production. In resuming public works construction, it is
desirable to proceed only at a moderate rate, since demand for private construction will be
abnormally high for some time. Our public works program should be timed to reach its peak after
demand for private construction has begun to taper off. Meanwhile, however, plans should be
prepared if we are to act promptly when the present extraordinary private demand begins to run out.

The Congress made money available to Federal agencies for their public works planning in the
fiscal year 1946. I strongly recommend that this policy be continued and extended in the fiscal
year 1947.

State and local governments also have an essential role to play in a national public works
program. In my message of September 6, 1945, I recommended that the Congress vote such grants
to State and local governments as will insure that each level of government makes its proper
contribution to a balanced public construction program. Specifically, the Federal Government
should aid State and local governments in planning their own public works programs, in undertaking
projects related to Federal programs of regional development, and in constructing such public
works as are necessary to carry out the various policies of the Federal Government.

Early in 1945 the Congress made available advances to State and local governments for planning
public works projects, and recently made additional provision to continue these advances through
the fiscal year 1946. I believe that further appropriations will be needed for the same purpose
for the fiscal year 1947.

The Congress has already made provision for highway programs. It is now considering legislation
which would expand Federal grants and loans in several other fields, including construction
of airports, hospital and health centers, housing, water pollution control facilities, and
educational plant facilities. I hope that early action will be taken to authorize these Federal
programs.

With respect to public works of strictly local importance, State and local governments should
proceed without Federal assistance except in planning. This rule should be subject to review
when and if the prospect of highly adverse general economic developments warrants it.

All loans and grants for public works should be planned and administered in such a way that
they are brought into accord with the other elements of the Federal Program.

Our long-run objective is to achieve a program of direct Federal and Federally assisted public
works which is planned in advance and synchronized with business conditions. In this way it
can make its greatest contribution to general economic stability.

(1) National housing program.

Last September I stated in my message to the Congress that housing was high on the list of
matters calling for decisive action.

Since then the housing shortage in countless communities, affecting millions of families, has
magnified this call to action.

Today we face both an immediate emergency and a major postwar problem.

Since VJ-day the wartime housing shortage has been growing steadily worse and pressure on real
estate values has increased. Returning veterans often cannot find a satisfactory place for
their families to live, and many who buy have to pay exorbitant prices. Rapid demobilization
inevitably means further overcrowding.

A realistic and practical attack on the emergency will require aggressive action by local governments,
with Federal aid, to exploit all opportunities and to give the veterans as far as possible
first chance at vacancies. It will require continuation of rent control in shortage areas as
well as legislation to permit control of sales prices. It will require maximum conversion of
temporary war units for veterans' housing and their transportation to communities with the
most pressing needs; the Congress has already appropriated funds for this purpose.

The inflation in the price of housing is growing daily.

As a result of the housing shortage, it is inevitable that the present dangers of inflation
in home values will continue unless the Congress takes action in the immediate future.

Legislation is now pending in the Congress which would provide for ceiling prices for old and
new houses. The authority to fix such ceilings is essential. With such authority, our veterans
and other prospective home owners would be protected against a skyrocketing of home prices.
The country would be protected from the extension of the present inflation in home values which,
if allowed to continue, will threaten not only the stabilization program but our opportunities
for attaining a sustained high level of home construction.

Such measures are necessary stopgaps-but only stopgaps. This emergency action, taken alone,
is good--but not enough. The housing shortage did not start with the war or with demobilization;
it began years before that and has steadily accumulated. The speed with which the Congress
establishes the foundation for a permanent, long-range housing program will determine how effectively
we grasp the immense opportunity to achieve our goal of decent housing and to make housing
a major instrument of continuing prosperity and full employment in the years ahead. It will
determine whether we move forward to a stable and healthy housing enterprise and toward providing
a decent home for every American family.

Production is the only fully effective answer. To get the wheels turning, I have appointed
an emergency housing expediter. I have approved establishment of priorities designed to assure
an ample share of scarce materials to builders of houses for which veterans will have preference.
Additional price and wage adjustments will be made where necessary, and other steps will be
taken to stimulate greater production of bottleneck items. I recommend consideration of every
sound method for expansion in facilities for insurance of privately financed housing by the
Federal Housing Administration and resumption of previously authorized low-rent public housing
projects suspended during the war.

In order to meet as many demands of the emergency situation as possible, a program of emergency
measures is now being formulated for action. These will include steps in addition to those
already taken. As quickly as this program can be formulated, announcement will be made.

Last September I also outlined to the Congress the basic principles for the kind of decisive,
permanent legislation necessary for a long-range housing program.

These principles place paramount the fact that housing construction and financing for the overwhelming
majority of our citizens should be done by private enterprise. They contemplate also that we
afford governmental encouragement to privately financed house construction for families of
moderate income, through extension of the successful system of insurance of housing investment;
that research be undertaken to develop better and cheaper methods of building homes; that communities
be assisted in appraising their housing needs; that we commence a program of Federal aid, with
fair local participation, to stimulate and promote the rebuilding and redevelopment of slums
and blighted areas--with maximum use of private capital. It is equally essential that we use
public funds to assist families of low income who could not otherwise enjoy adequate housing,
and that we quicken our rate of progress in rural housing.

Legislation now under consideration by the Congress provides for a comprehensive attack jointly
by private enterprise, State and local authorities, and the Federal Government. This legislation
would make permanent the National Housing Agency and give it authority and funds for much needed
technical and economic research. It would provide additional stimulus for privately financed
housing construction. This stimulus consists of establishing a new system of yield insurance
to encourage large-scale investment in rental housing and broadening the insuring powers of
the Federal Housing Administration and the lending powers of the Federal savings and loan associations.

Where private industry cannot build, the Government must step in to do the job. The bill would
encourage expansion in housing available for the lowest income groups by continuing to provide
direct subsidies for low-rent housing and rural housing. It would facilitate land assembly
for urban redevelopment by loans and contributions to local public agencies where the localities
do their share.

Prompt enactment of permanent housing legislation along these lines will not interfere with
the emergency action already under way. On the contrary, it would lift us out of a potentially
perpetual state of housing emergency. It would offer the best hope and prospect to millions
of veterans and other American families that the American system can offer more to them than
temporary makeshifts.

I have said before that the people of the United States can be the best housed people in the
world. I repeat that assertion, and I welcome the cooperation of the Congress in achieving
that goal.

(j) Social security and health.

Our Social Security System has just celebrated its tenth anniversary. During the past decade
this program has supported the welfare and morale of a large part of our people by removing
some of the hazards and hardships of the aged, the unemployed, and widows and dependent children.

But, looking back over 10 years' experience and ahead to the future, we cannot fail to see
defects and serious inadequacies in our system as it now exists. Benefits are in many cases
inadequate; a great many persons are excluded from coverage; and provision has not been made
for social insurance to cover the cost of medical care and the earnings lost by the sick and
the disabled.

In the field of old-age security, there seems to be no adequate reason for excluding such groups
as the self-employed, agricultural and domestic workers, and employees of nonprofit organizations.
Since many of these groups earn wages too low to permit significant savings for old age, they
are in special need of the assured income that can be provided by old-age insurance.

We must take urgent measures for the readjustment period ahead. The Congress for some time
has been considering legislation designed to supplement at Federal expense, during the immediate
reconversion period, compensation payments to the unemployed. Again I urge the Congress to
enact legislation liberalizing unemployment compensation benefits and extending the coverage.
Providing for the sustained consumption by the unemployed persons and their families is more
than a welfare policy; it is sound economic policy. A sustained high level of consumer purchases
is a basic ingredient of a prosperous economy.

During the war, nearly 5 million men were rejected for military service because of physical
or mental defects which in many cases might have been prevented or corrected. This is shocking
evidence that large sections of the population are at substandard levels of health. The need
for a program that will give everyone opportunity for medical care is obvious. Nor can there
be any serious doubt of the Government's responsibility for helping in this human and social
problem.

The comprehensive health program which I recommended on November 19, 1945, will require substantial
additions to the Social Security System and, in conjunction with other changes that need to
be made, will require further consideration of the financial basis for social security. The
system of prepaid medical care which I have recommended is expected eventually to require amounts
equivalent to 4 percent of earnings up to $3,600 a year, which is about the average of present
expenditures by individuals for medical care. The pooling of medical costs, under a plan which
permits each individual to make a free choice of doctor and hospital, would assure that individuals
receive adequate treatment and hospitalization when they are faced with emergencies for which
they cannot budget individually. In addition, I recommended insurance benefits to replace part
of the earnings lost through temporary sickness and permanent disability.

Even without these proposed major additions, it would now be time to undertake a thorough reconsideration
of our social security laws. The structure should be expanded and liberalized. Provision should
be made for extending coverage credit to veterans for the period of their service in the armed
forces. In the financial provisions we must reconcile the actuarial needs of social security,
including health insurance, with the requirements of a revenue system that is designed to promote
a high level of consumption and full employment.

(k) Education.

Although the major responsibility for financing education rests with the States, some assistance
has long been given by the Federal Government. Further assistance is desirable and essential.
There are many areas and some whole States where good schools cannot be provided without imposing
an undue local tax burden on the citizens. It is essential to provide adequate elementary and
secondary schools everywhere, and additional educational opportunities for large numbers of
people beyond the secondary level. Accordingly, I repeat the proposal of last year's Budget
Message that the Federal Government provide financial aid to assist the States in assuring
more nearly equal opportunities for a good education. The proposed Federal grants for current
educational expenditures should be made for the purpose of improving the educational system
where improvement is most needed. They should not be used to replace existing non-Federal expenditures,
or even to restore merely the situation which existed before the war.

In the future we expect incomes considerably higher than before the war. Higher incomes should
make it possible for State and local governments and for individuals to support higher and
more nearly adequate expenditures for education. But inequality among the States will still
remain, and Federal help will still be needed.

As a part of our total public works program, consideration should be given to the need for
providing adequate buildings for schools and other educational institutions. In view of current
arrears in the construction of educational facilities, I believe that legislation to authorize
grants for educational facilities, to be matched by similar expenditures by State and local
authorities, should receive the favorable consideration of the Congress.

The Federal Government has not sought, and will not seek, to dominate education in the States.
It should continue its historic role of leadership and advice and, for the purpose of equalizing
educational opportunity, it should extend further financial support to the cause of education
in areas where this is desirable.

(l) Federal Government personnel.

The rapid reconversion of the Federal Government from war to peace is reflected in the demobilization
of its civilian personnel. The number of these employees in continental United States has been
reduced by more than 500,000 from the total of approximately 2,900,000 employed in the final
months of the war. I expect that by next June we shall have made a further reduction of equal
magnitude and that there will be continuing reductions during the next fiscal year. Of the
special wartime agencies now remaining, only a few are expected to continue actively into the
next fiscal year.

At the same time that we have curtailed the number of employees, we have shortened the workweek
by one-sixth or more throughout the Government and have restored holidays. The process of readjustment
has been complicated and costs have been increased by a heavy turn-over in the remaining personnel--particularly
by the loss of some of our best administrators. Thousands of war veterans have been reinstated
or newly employed in the civil service. Many civilians have been transferred from war agencies
to their former peacetime agencies. Recruitment standards, which had to be relaxed during the
war, are now being tightened.

The elimination last autumn of overtime work for nearly all Federal employees meant a sharp
cut in their incomes. For salaried workers, the blow was softened but by no means offset by
the increased rates of pay which had become effective July 1. Further adjustments to compensate
for increased living costs are required. Moreover, we have long needed a general upward revision
of Federal Government salary scales at all levels in all branches--legislative, judicial, and
executive. Too many in Government have had to sacrifice too much in economic advantage to serve
the Nation.

Adequate salaries will result in economies and improved efficiency in the conduct of Government
business--gains that will far outweigh the immediate costs. I hope the Congress will expedite
action on salary legislation for all Federal employees in all branches of the Government. The
only exception I would make is in the case of workers whose pay rates are established by wage
boards; a blanket adjustment would destroy the system by which their wages are kept aligned
with prevailing rates in particular localities. The wage boards should be sensitive now, as
they were during the war, to changes in local prevailing wage rates and should make adjustments
accordingly.

I hope also that the Congress may see fit to enact legislation for the adequate protection
of the health and safety of Federal employees, for their coverage under a system of unemployment
compensation, and for their return at Government expense to their homes after separation from
wartime service.

(m) Territories, insular possessions, and the District of Columbia.

The major governments of the world face few problems as important and as perplexing as those
relating to dependent peoples. This Government is committed to the democratic principle that
it is for the dependent peoples themselves to decide what their status shall be. To this end
I asked the Congress last October to provide a means by which the people of Puerto Rico might
choose their form of government and ultimate status with respect to the United States. I urge,
too, that the Congress promptly accede to the wishes of the people of Hawaii that the Territory
be admitted to statehood in our Union, and that similar action be taken with respect to Alaska
as soon as it is certain that this is the desire of the people of that great Territory. The
people of the Virgin Islands should be given an increasing measure of self-government.

We have already determined that the Philippine Islands are to be independent on July 4, 1946.
The ravages of war and enemy occupation, however, have placed a heavy responsibility upon the
United States. I urge that the Congress complete, as promptly and as generously as may be possible,
legislation which will aid economic rehabilitation for the Philippines. This will be not only
a just acknowledgment of the loyalty of the people of the Philippines, but it will help to
avoid the economic chaos which otherwise will be their heritage from our common war. Perhaps
no event in the long centuries of colonialism gives more hope for the pattern of the future
than the independence of the Philippines.

The District of Columbia, because of its special relation to the Federal Government, has been
treated since 1800 as a dependent area. We should move toward a greater measure of local self-government
consistent with the constitutional status of the District. We should take adequate steps to
assure that citizens of the United States are not denied their franchise merely because they
reside at the Nation's Capital.

III. THE BUDGET FOR THE FEDERAL PROGRAM

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1947

SUMMARY OF THE BUDGET

For the first time since the fiscal year 1930 the Budget for the next fiscal year will require
no increase in the national debt.

Expenditures of all kinds, authorized and recommended, in the next year are estimated at just
above 35.8 billion dollars. Net receipts are estimated at 31.5 billion dollars. The estimated
difference of 4.3 billion dollars will be met by a reduction in the very substantial balance
which will be in the Treasury during the next fiscal year.

A large part of the activities outside defense and war liquidation, aftermath of war, and international
finance, classified as "other activities" in a following table, is still due to repercussions
of the war. These "other activities" include more than 2 billion dollars for aids to agriculture
and net outlays for the Commodity Credit Corporation-almost double the expenditures for the
same purposes in prewar years. This increase is due mainly to expenditures for purposes of
price stabilization and price support resulting from the war food production program. Other
increases in this category are due to the fact that certain wartime agencies now in the process
of liquidation are included in this group of activities. If all expenditures for those activities
which are directly or indirectly related to the war are excluded, the residual expenditures
are below those for corresponding activities in prewar years. In making this comparison account
should be taken of the fact that, while prewar expenditures were affected by direct relief
and work relief for the unemployed, the postwar budgets are affected by the considerable increase
in pay rates and other increases in costs and prices.

To elaborate, the Budget, as I have remarked above, reflects on both sides of the ledger the
Government's program as recommended by the Executive. It includes estimates not only of expenditures
and receipts for which legislative authority already exists, but also of expenditures and receipts
for which authorization is recommended.

The Budget total for the next fiscal year, the year that ends on June 30, 1947, is estimated
at just above 35.8 billion dollars-about a third of the budgets for global war, although nearly
four times the prewar budgets. This estimate is based on the assumption that a rapid liquidation
of the war program will be associated with rapid reconversion and expansion of peacetime production.
The total includes net outlays of Government corporations.

The estimated expenditures in the next and current fiscal year compare as follows with those
of a year of global war and a prewar year:

Total Budget expenditures

Fiscal year: (in millions)

1947 $35, 860

1946 67,229

1945 100, 031

1940 9,252

Although allowances for occupation, demobilization, and defense are drastically reduced in
the fiscal year 1947, they will still amount to 42 percent of the total Budget. The so-called
"aftermath of war" expenditures account for a further 30 percent of the total. The total of
all other programs, which was drastically cut during the war, is increasing again as liquidation
of the war program proceeds and renewed emphasis is placed on the peacetime objectives of the
Government.

On the other side of the ledger, net receipts are estimated at 31.5 billion dollars. This estimate
assumes that all existing taxes will continue all through the fiscal year 1947. Included are
the extraordinary receipts from the disposal of surplus property.

As a result, estimated expenditures will exceed estimated receipts by 4.3 billion dollars.
This amount can be provided by a reduction in the cash balance in the Treasury. Thus, after
a long period of increasing public debt resulting from depression budgets and war budgets,
it is anticipated that no increase in the Federal debt will be required next year.

FEDERAL BUDGET EXPENDITURES AND BUDGET RECEIPTS

Including net outlays of Government corporations and credit agencies (based on existing and
proposed legislation)

Fiscal year

Expenditures: 1946 1947

Defense, war, and war liquidation $49,000 $15,000

Aftermath of war: Veterans, interest, refunds 10,813 10,793

International finance (including proposed legislation) 2,614 2,754

Other activities 4,552 5,813

Activities based on proposed legislation

(excluding international finance) 2501,500

Total expenditures 67, 229 35, 860

Receipts (net) 38, 60931,513

Excess of expenditures 28,620 4,347

The current fiscal year, 1946, is a year of transition. When the year opened, in July 1945,
we were still fighting a major war, and Federal expenditures were running at an annual rate
of about 100 billion dollars. By June 1946 that rate will be more than cut in half. The Budget
total for the current fiscal year is now estimated at 67.2 billion dollars, of which more than
two-thirds provides for war and war liquidation. Since net receipts are estimated at 38.6 billion
dollars, there will be an excess of expenditures of 28.6 billion dollars for the current fiscal
year.

For all programs discussed in this Message I estimate the total of Budget appropriations and
authorizations (including reappropriations and permanent appropriations) at 30,982 million
dollars for the fiscal year 1947. Of this amount, present permanent appropriations are expected
to provide 5,755 million dollars, principally for interest. This leaves 24,224 million dollars
to be made available through new appropriations, exclusive of appropriations to liquidate contract
authorizations; 900 million dollars in new contract authorizations; and 103 million dollars
through the reappropriation of unliquidated balances of previous appropriations. The appropriations
needed to liquidate contract authorizations are estimated at 1,113 million dollars.

In the Budget for the year ahead only over-all estimates are included at this time for the
major war agencies and for net outlays of Government corporations. Detailed recommendations
will be transmitted in the spring for the war agencies; and the business-type budgets of Government
corporations will likewise be transmitted in accordance with the recently adopted Government
Corporation Control Act.

Similarly, only over-all estimates are provided for new programs recommended in this Message;
detailed recommendations will be transmitted after authorizing legislation has been enacted.
It should be recognized that many of the estimates for new programs recommended in this Message
are initial year figures. These figures will be affected by the date the legislation is enacted
and by the time needed for getting a program under way. New programs, such as that for a national
research agency, will require larger amounts in later years. The estimates exclude major elements
of the proposed national health program since the greater part of these will be covered by
expenditures from trust funds.

The Budget total includes expenditures for capital outlay as well as for current operations.
An estimated 1,740 million dollars will be expended in the fiscal year 1947 for direct Federal
public works and for loans and grants for public works.

THE ECONOMIC IMPACT Of THE LIQUIDATION

OF THE WAR PROGRAM

Government programs are of such importance in the development of production and employment
opportunities--domestic and international--that it has become essential to formulate and consider
the Federal Budget in the light of the Nation's budget as a whole. The relationship between
the receipts, expenditures, and savings of consumers, business, and government is shown in
the accompanying table.

Considering the whole Nation, total expenditures must equal the total receipts, because what
any individual or group spends becomes receipts of other individuals or groups. Such equality
can be achieved on either a high level of incomes or on a low or depression level of incomes.

Tremendous orders for munitions during the war shifted production and employment into high
gear. Total goods produced and services rendered for private as well as for Government purposes--the
Nation's budget-reached about 200 billion dollars in the calendar year 1944. Federal, State,
and local government expenditures represented half of this total.

Corresponding estimates for the past 3 months depict the national economy in the process of
demobilization and reconversion.

The wartime annual rate of Federal expenditures has been reduced by 32 billion dollars, while
the Nation's budget total has dropped only half as much. The drop in total value of production
and services has been less drastic because increasing private activities have absorbed in large
measure the manpower and materials released from war production and war services.

The largest increase in private activities has occurred in business investments, which include
residential and other construction, producers' durable equipment, accumulation of inventories,
and net exports. Under conditions of global war, expenditures for private construction and
equipment were held to a minimum and inventories were depleted. With the beginning of reconversion
these developments have been reversed. Residential construction and outlays for plant and equipment
are on the increase; inventories, too, are being replenished. International transactions (excluding
lend-lease and international relief which are included under war expenditures) showed an import
surplus under conditions of global war. In the past 3 months private exports have been slightly
in excess of imports, for the first time since 1941.

Consumers' budgets show a significant change. On the income side, their total has declined
but little because the reduction in "take-home" pay of war workers is, to a large extent, offset
for the time being by the mustering-out payments received by war veterans and by unemployment
compensation received by the unemployed. On the expenditure side, however, consumers' budgets,
restricted during the war, have in creased substantially as a result of the fact that scarce
goods are beginning to appear on the market and wartime restraints are disappearing. Thus,
consumers' current savings are declining substantially from the extraordinarily high wartime
rate and some wartime savings are beginning to be used for long-delayed purchases.

THE GOVERNMENT'S BUDGET AND THE NATION'S BUDGET

Calendar year 1944 and October-December 1945

Oct.-Dec. 1945 (start of

reconversion) (in seasonally

Calendar Year 1944 (global war) adjusted annual rates)

Excess Excess

Expendi- (+), def- Expendi- (+),def-

Economic Group Receipts tures icit(-) Receipts tures icit(-) CONSUMERS

Income after taxes $134 ....... ...... $132 ...... .......

Expenditures ......$98............$107 .......

Excess of receipts, savings (+) ...... ...... +$35 ...... ...... +$25 BUSINESS

Undistributed profits and reserves $13 ...... ...... $9 ...... ......

Gross capital formation:

Domestic ...... $4 ...... ...... $15 ......

Net exports1 ......--2............1......

Total, gross capital formation ......2............16......

Excess of receipts (+) or capital

formation (--) ...... ...... +$11 ...... ...... --$7

STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT

Receipts from the public, other

than borrowing $10 ...... ...... $11 ...... ......

Payments to the public ...... $8............$9......

Excess of receipts (+) ............+$2............+$2

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Receipts from the public, other

than borrowing $48 ...... ....... $44 ...... ......

Payments to the public ......$96 .............$64......

Excess of payments (--) ............--$48............. --$20

Less: Adjustments2 $7 $7 ....... $14 $14 .......

TOTAL: GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT

Receipts $198 ....... ...... $182 ...... ......

Expenditures ......$198............ $182......

Balance ...... ...... 0 ...... ...... ......

1 Excludes exports for lend-lease and relief which are included in Federal Government expenditures.

2 Mainly government expenditures for other than goods and services, such as mustering-out pay
and unemployment compensation.

Unemployment has increased less than was expected during this first period of demobilization
and reconversion. It is true that 6 million men and women have been discharged from the armed
forces since May 1945 and more than 5 million have been laid off from war work. On the other
hand, more than a million civilians have been enlisted in the armed forces, a considerable
number of war veterans have not immediately sought jobs, and many war workers, especially women,
have withdrawn from the labor force. In addition, many industries, and especially service trades
which were undermanned during the war, are beginning now, for the first time in years, to recruit
an adequate labor force. The reduced workweek has also contributed to the absorption of those
released from war service and war work.

In general, the drastic cut in war programs has thrown the economy into lower gear; it has
not thrown it out of gear. Our economic machine demonstrates remarkable resiliency, although
there are many difficulties that must still be overcome. The rapid termination of war contracts,
prompt clearance of unneeded Government-owned equipment from private plants, and other reconversion
policies have greatly speeded up the beginning of peacetime work in reconverted plants.

Although the first great shock of demobilization and war-work termination has thus been met
better than many observers expected, specific industries and specific regions show much unevenness
in the progress of reconversion.

The Quarterly Report of the Director of War Mobilization and Reconversion analyzes the difficulties
in recruiting personnel and obtaining materials that hamper reconversion in certain industries
and proposes policies to deal with these situations. The lack of adequate housing is one of
the main factors checking the flow of workers into areas where job opportunities exist.

FEDERAL REVENUE, BORROWING, AND THE

PUBLIC DEBT

I. FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS AND TAX POLICY

Recommendations for tax legislation should be considered not only in the light of the financial
requirements of the ensuing year, but also in the light of future years' financial requirements
and a full consideration of economic conditions.

Expenditures are estimated at nearly 36 billion dollars in the fiscal year 1947; they can hardly
be expected to be reduced to less than 25 billion dollars in subsequent years. Net receipts
in the fiscal year 1947 are estimated at 31.5 billion dollars.

Included in this estimate are 2 billion dollars of receipts from disposal and rental of surplus
property and 190 million dollars of receipts from renegotiation of wartime contracts. These
sources of receipts will disappear in future years. Tax collections for the fiscal year 1947
also will not yet fully reflect the reduction in corporate tax liabilities provided in the
Revenue Act of 1945. If the extraordinary receipts from the disposal of surplus property and
renegotiation of contracts be disregarded, and if the tax reductions adopted in the Revenue
Act of 1945 were fully effective, present tax rates would yield about 27 billion dollars.

These estimates for the fiscal year 1947 are based on the assumption of generally favorable
business conditions but not on an income reflecting full employment and the high productivity
that we hope to achieve. In future years the present tax system, in conjunction with a full
employment level of national income, could be expected to yield more than 30 billion dollars,
which is substantially above the anticipated peacetime level of expenditures.

In view of the still extraordinarily large expenditures in the coming year and continuing inflationary
pressures, I am making no recommendation for tax reduction at this time.

We have already had a substantial reduction in taxes from wartime peaks. The Revenue Act of
1945 was a major tax-reduction measure. It decreased the total tax load by more than one-sixth,
an amount substantially in excess of the reductions proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury
to congressional tax committees in October 1945. These proposed reductions were designed to
encourage reconversion and peacetime business expansion.

The possibility of further tax reductions must depend on the budgetary situation and the economic
situation. The level of anticipated expenditures for the fiscal year 1947 and the volume of
outstanding public debt require the maintenance of large revenues.

Moreover, inflationary pressures still appear dangerously powerful, and ill-advised tax reduction
would operate to strengthen them still further.

My decision not to recommend additional tax reductions at this time is made in the light of
existing economic conditions and prospects.

2. BORROWING AND THE PUBLIC DEBT

The successful conclusion of the Victory loan marked the end of war borrowing and the beginning
of the transition to postwar debt management.

Because of the success of the Victory loan, I am happy to report that the Treasury will not
need to borrow any new money from the public during the remainder of the present fiscal year
except through regular sales of savings bonds and savings notes. Furthermore, a part of the
large cash balance now in the Treasury will be used for debt redemption so that the public
debt which now amounts to about 278 billion dollars will decrease by several billion dollars
during the next 18 months. The present statutory debt limit of 300 billion dollars will provide
an ample margin for all of the public-debt transactions through the fiscal year 1947. The net
effect of the excess of expenditures and debt redemption on the Treasury cash balance, as compared
with selected previous years, is shown in the following table:

EXCESS Of BUDGET EXPENDITURES, THE PUBLIC DEBT, AND THE TREASURY CASH BALANCE IN SELECTED YEARS

Excess of At end of period

Budget ex- 

penditures Public Cash bal-

Fiscal Year over receipts debt ance

1940 $3. 9 $43. 0 $1. 9

1945 53. 6 258. 7 24. 7 1946:

July-Dec. 1945 18. 1 278. 1 26. 0

Jan.-June 1946 10. 5 275. 0 11. 9

1947 4. 3 271. 0 3. 2

Although the public debt is expected to decline, a substantial volume of refinancing will be
required, because of the large volume of maturing obligations. Redemptions of savings bonds
also have been running high in recent months and are expected to remain large for some time.
The issuance of savings bonds will be continued. These bonds represent a convenient method
of investment for small savers, and also an anti-inflationary method of refinancing. Government
agencies and trust funds are expected to buy about 2.5 billion dollars of Government securities
during the next 6 months, and 2.8 billion dollars more during the fiscal year 1947. Through
these and other debt operations, the distribution of the Federal debt among the various types
of public and private owners will change, even though the total is expected to decline.

The interest policies followed in the refinancing operations will have a major impact not only
on the provision for interest payments in future budgets, but also on the level of interest
rates prevailing in private financing. The average rate of interest on the debt is now a little
under 2 percent. Low interest rates will be an important force in promoting the full production
and full employment in the postwar period for which we are all striving. Close wartime cooperation
between the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve System has made it possible to finance
the most expensive war in history at low and stable rates of interest. This cooperation will
continue.

No less important than the level of interest rates paid on the debt is the distribution of
its ownership. Of the total debt, more than half represents direct savings of individuals or
investments of funds received from individual savings by life insurance companies, mutual savings
banks, savings and loan associations, private or Government trust funds, and other agencies.

Most of the remaining debt--more than 100 billion dollars--is held by the commercial banks
and the Federal Reserve banks. Heavy purchases by the banks were necessary to provide adequate
funds to finance war expenditures. A considerable portion of these obligations are short-term
in character and hence will require refinancing in the coming months and years. Since they
have been purchased out of newly created bank funds, continuance of the present low rates of
interest is entirely appropriate. To do otherwise would merely increase bank profits at the
expense of the taxpayer.

The 275-billion dollar debt poses a problem that requires careful consideration in the determination
of financial and economic policies. We have learned that the problem, serious as it is, can
be managed. Its management will require determined action to keep our Federal Budget in order
and to relate our fiscal policies to the requirements of an expanding economy. The more successful
we are in achieving full production and full employment the easier it will be to manage the
debt and pay for the debt service. Large though the debt is, it is within our economic capacity.
The interest charges on it amount to but a small proportion of our national income. The Government
is determined, by a resolute policy of economic stabilization, to protect the interests of
the millions of American citizens who have invested in its securities.

During the past 6 months the net revenue receipts of the Federal Government have been about
20 billion dollars, almost as much as during the closing 6 months of 1944 when the country
was still engaged in all-out warfare. The high level of these receipts reflects the smoothness
of the reconversion and particularly the strength of consumer demand. But the receipts so far
collected, it must be remembered, do not reflect any of the tax reductions made by the Revenue
Act of 1945. These reductions will not have their full effect on the revenue collected until
the fiscal year 1948.

It is good to move toward a balanced budget and a start on the retirement of the debt at a
time when demand for goods is strong and the business outlook is good. These conditions prevail
today. Business is good and there are still powerful forces working in the direction of inflation.
This is not the time for tax reduction.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SPECIFIC FEDERAL ACTIVITIES

1. WAR LIQUIDATION AND NATIONAL DEFENSE

(a) War expenditures.

The fiscal year 1947 will see a continuance of war liquidation and occupation. During this
period we shall also lay the foundation for our peacetime system of national defense.

In the fiscal year that ended on June 30, 1945, almost wholly a period of global warfare, war
expenditures amounted to 90.5 billion dollars. For the fiscal year 1946 war expenditures were
originally estimated at 70 billion dollars. That estimate was made a year ago while we were
still engaged in global warfare. After victory over Japan this estimate was revised to 50.5
billion dollars. Further cut-backs and accelerated demobilization have made possible an additional
reduction in the rate of war spending. During the first 6 months 32.9 billion dollars were
spent. It is now estimated that 16.1 billion dollars will be spent during the second 6 months,
or a total of 49 billion dollars during the whole fiscal year.

For the fiscal year 1947 it is estimated, tentatively, that expenditures for war liquidation,
for occupation, and for national defense will be reduced to 15 billion dollars. The War and
Navy Departments are expected to spend 13 billion dollars; expenditures of other agencies,
such as the United States Maritime Commission, the War Shipping Administration, and the Office
of Price Administration, and payments to the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration
are estimated at 3 billion dollars. Allowing for estimated net receipts of 1 billion dollars
arising from war activities of the Reconstruction finance Corporation, the estimated total
of war expenditures is 15 billion dollars. At this time only a tentative break-down of the
total estimate for war and defense activities can be indicated.

An expenditure of 15 billion dollars for war liquidation, occupation, and national defense
is a large sum for a year which begins 10 months after fighting has ended. It is 10 times our
expenditures for defense before the war; it amounts to about 10 percent of our expected national
income. This estimate reflects the immense job that is involved in winding up a global war
effort and stresses the great responsibility that victory has placed upon this country. The
large expenditures needed for our national defense emphasize the great scope for effective
organization in furthering economy and efficiency. To this end I have recently recommended
to the Congress adoption of legislation combining the War and Navy Departments into a single
Department of National Defense.

A large part of these expenditures is still to be attributed to the costs of the war. Assuming,
somewhat arbitrarily, that about one-half of the 15-billion-dollar outlay for the fiscal year
1947 is for war liquidation, aggregate expenditures by this Government for the second World
War are now estimated at 347 billion dollars through June 30, 1947. Of this, about 9 billion
dollars will have been recovered through renegotiation and sale of surplus property by June
30, 1947; this has been reflected in the estimates of receipts.

Demobilization and strength of armed forces.--Demobilization of our armed forces is proceeding
rapidly. At the time of victory in Europe, about 12.3 million men and women were in the armed
forces; 7.6 million were overseas. By the end of December 1945 our armed forces had been reduced
to below 7 million. By June 30, 1946, they will number about 2.9 million, of whom 1.8 million
will be individuals enlisted and inducted after VE-day. Mustering-out pay is a large item of
our war liquidation expense; it will total 2.5 billion dollars in the fiscal year 1946, and
about 500 million dollars in the fiscal year 1947.

In the fiscal year 1947 the strength of our armed forces will still be above the ultimate peacetime
level. As I have said, War and Navy Department requirements indicate a strength of about 2
million in the armed forces a year from now. This is necessary to enable us to do our share
in the occupation of enemy territories and in the preservation of peace in a troubled world.
Expenditures for pay, subsistence, travel, and miscellaneous expenses of the armed forces,
excluding mustering-out pay, are estimated at 5 billion dollars.

Contract settlement and surplus property disposal.--The winding up of war procurement is the
second most important liquidation job. By the end of November a total of 301,000 prime contracts
involving commitments of 64 billion dollars had been terminated. Of this total, 67,000 contracts
with commitments of 35 billion dollars remained to be settled. Termination payments on these
contracts are estimated at about 3.5 billion dollars. It is expected that more than half of
these terminated contracts will be settled during the current fiscal year, leaving payments
of about 1.5 billion dollars for the fiscal year 1947.

Another important aspect of war supply liquidation is the disposal of surplus property. Munitions,
ships, plants, installations, and supplies, originally costing 50 billion dollars or more,
will ultimately be declared surplus. The sale value of this property will be far less than
original cost and disposal expenses are estimated at 10 to 15 cents on each dollar realized.
Disposal units within existing agencies have been organized to liquidate surplus property under
the direction of the Surplus Property Administration. Overseas disposal activities have been
centralized in the State Department to permit this program to be carried on in line with over-all
foreign policy. Thus far only about 13 billion dollars of the ultimate surplus, including 5
billion dollars of unsalable aircraft, has been declared. Of this amount, 2.3 billion dollars
have been disposed of, in sales yielding 600 million dollars. The tremendous job of handling
surplus stocks will continue to affect Federal expenditures and receipts for several years.
The speed and effectiveness of surplus disposal operations will be of great importance for
the domestic economy as well as for foreign economic policies.

War supplies, maintenance, and relief.-Adequate provision for the national defense requires
that we keep abreast of scientific and technical advances. The tentative estimates for the
fiscal year 1947 make allowance for military research, limited procurement of weapons in the
developmental state, and some regular procurement of munitions which were developed but not
mass-produced when the war ended. Expenditures for procurement and construction will constitute
one-third or less of total defense outlays, compared to a ratio of two-thirds during the war years.

The estimates also provide for the maintenance of our war-expanded naval and merchant fleets,
military installations, and stocks of military equipment and supplies. Our naval combatant
fleet is three times its pre-Pearl Harbor tonnage. Our Merchant Marine is five times its prewar
size. The War Department has billions of dollars worth of equipment and supplies. Considerable
maintenance and repair expense is necessary for the equipment which we desire to retain in
active status or in war reserve. Expenses will be incurred for winnowing the stocks of surpluses,
for preparing lay-up facilities for the reserve fleets, and for storage of reserve equipment
and supplies.

Military expenditures .in the current fiscal year include 650 million dollars for civilian
supplies for the prevention of starvation and disease in occupied areas. Expenditures on this
account will continue in the fiscal year 1947. The war expenditures also cover the expenses
of civilian administration in occupied areas.

During the war, 15 cents of each dollar of our war expenditures was for lend-lease aid. With
lend-lease terminated, I expect the direct operations under this program to be substantially
completed in the current fiscal year. The expenditures estimated for the fiscal year 1947 under
this program are mainly interagency reimbursements for past transactions.

Relief and rehabilitation expenditures are increasing. It is imperative that we give all necessary
aid within our means to the people who have borne the ravages of war. I estimate that in the
fiscal year 1946 expenditures for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration
will total 1.3 billion dollars and in the following year 1.2 billion dollars. Insofar as possible,
procurement for this purpose will be from war surpluses.

(b) Authorizations for war and national defense.

During the war, authorizations and appropriations had to be enacted well in advance of obligation
and spending to afford ample time for planning of production by the procurement services and
by industry. Thus our cumulative war program authorized in the period between July 1, 1940,
and July 1, 1945, was 431 billion dollars, including net war commitments of Government corporations.
Expenditures against those authorizations totaled 290 billion dollars. This left 141 billion
dollars in unobligated authorizations and unliquidated obligations.

With the end of fighting, it became necessary to adjust war authorizations to the requirements
of war liquidation and continuing national defense. Intensive review of the war authorizations
by both the executive and the legislative branches has been continued since VJ-day. As a result,
the authorized war program is being brought more nearly into line with expenditures.

Recisions and authorizations through the fiscal year 1946.--Readjusting the war program, as
the Congress well knows, is not an easy task. Authorizations must not be too tight, lest we
hamper necessary operations; they must not be too ample, lest we lose control of spending.
Last September, I transmitted to the Congress recommendations on the basis of which the Congress
voted H.R. 4407 to repeal 50.3 billion dollars of appropriations and authorizations. I found
it necessary to veto this bill because it was used as a vehicle for legislation that would
impair the reemployment program. However, in order to preserve the fine work of the Congress
on the recisions, I asked the Director of the Bureau of the Budget to place the exact amounts
indicated for repeal in a nonexpendable reserve, and to advise the departments and agencies
accordingly. This has been done.

In accord with Public Law 132 of the Seventy-ninth Congress, I have transmitted recommendations
for additional rescissions for the current fiscal year of appropriations amounting to 5.8 billion
dollars and of contract authorizations totaling 420 million dollars. The net reduction in authority
to obligate will be 5.0 billion dollars, because, of the appropriations, 1.2 billion dollars
will have to be restored in subsequent years to liquidate contract authorizations still on
the books.

The appropriations recommended for repeal include 2,827 million dollars for the Navy Department,
1,421 million dollars for the War Department, 850 million dollars for lend-lease, 384 million
dollars for the War Shipping Administration, and 260 million dollars for the United States
Maritime Commission. The contract authorizations proposed for repeal are for the Maritime Commission.

In addition, there are unused tonnage authorizations for construction of naval vessels now
valued at 5.4 billion dollars. In September 1945, I suggested that this authority be reviewed
by the appropriate committees of the Congress, and the Congress has moved to bar construction
under these authorizations during the remainder of the fiscal year 1946. I propose to continue
this prohibition in the Navy budget estimates for the fiscal year 1947 and now renew my recommendation
that legislation be enacted at the earliest time to dear the statute books of these authorizations.

The amounts indicated for repeal in H.R. 4407 and the further rescissions which I have recommended,
excluding duplications and deferred cash payments on existing authorizations, represent a cut
in the authorized war program of 60.8 billion dollars. The war authorizations will also be
reduced 3'7 billion dollars by carrying receipts of revolving accounts to surplus, by lapses,
and by cancellation and repayment of commitments of the Government war corporations.

On the other hand, supplemental appropriations of 600 million dollars will be required for
the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.

In the net, it is estimated that the cumulative authorized war and national defense program
will amount to 368 billion dollars on June 30, 1946. Expenditures of 49 billion dollars during
the fiscal year 1946 will have pushed cumulative expenditures to 339 billion dollars. The unexpended
balances will be down to 28 billion dollars on June 30, 1946.

New authorizations for national defense and war liquidation in the fiscal year 1947.-The expenditures
of 15 billion dollars for national defense and war liquidation in the fiscal year 1947 will
be partly for payment of contractual obligations incurred in the past, and partly for the payment
of new obligations. The unexpended balances on June 30, 1946, will be scattered among hundreds
of separate appropriations. Thus, while some appropriation accounts will have unused balances,
others will require additional appropriations.

It is estimated that authorizations to incur new obligations of 11,772 million dollars will
be needed during the fiscal year 1947, mainly for the War and Navy Departments. Of the required
authorizations, 11,365 million dollars will be in new appropriations, 400 million dollars in
new contract authority, and 7 million dollars in reappropriations of unobligated balances.
In addition, appropriations of 825 million dollars will be needed to liquidate obligations
under existing contract authorizations.

Taking into account the tentative authorizations and expenditures estimated for the fiscal
year 1947, and offsets of 3 billion dollars in war commitments of Government corporations,
the cumulative authorized war and national defense program on June 30, 1947, will be 376 billion
dollars; total expenditures, 354 billion dollars; and unexpended balances, 22 billion dollars.

The 22 billion dollars of unexpended balances tentatively indicated as of June 30, 1947, comprise
both unobligated authorizations and unliquidated obligations. Most of the unliquidated obligations
result from transactions booked during the war years. A large part of the 22 billion dollars
would never be spent even if not repealed, for the appropriations will lapse in due course.
For example, several billion dollars of these unliquidated obligations represent unsettled
inter- and intra-departmental agency accounts for war procurement. Legislation is being requested
to facilitate the adjustment of some of these inter-agency accounts. Another 6 billion dollars
is set aside for contract termination payments. If contract settlement costs continue in line
with recent experience, it is likely that part of the 6 billion dollars will remain unspent.

On the other hand, some of the 22 billion dollars would be available for obligation and expenditure
unless impounded. In certain appropriations, such as those for long-cycle procurement, considerable
carry-over of unliquidated obligations into future years is to be expected and is necessary.
However, substantial further rescissions can and should be made when the war liquidation program
tapers off and budgetary requirements for national defense are clarified. As I have said, I
shall continue to review the war authorizations and from time to time recommend excess balances
for repeal.

As in recent years, detailed recommendations concerning most appropriations for the national
defense program are postponed until the spring. In connection with the war activities of the
United States Maritime Commission and certain other agencies, however, I now make specific
recommendations for the fiscal year 1947. No additional authorizations or appropriations will
be necessary for the Maritime Commission since sufficient balances will be left after the above-mentioned
rescissions to carry out the program now contemplated for the fiscal year 1947.

2. AFTERMATH OF WAR

Nearly one-third--11 billion dollars--of estimated Federal expenditures in the fiscal year
1947 will be for purposes that are largely inherited from the war--payments to veterans, interest
on the Federal debt, and refunds of taxes.

(a) For veterans.

"Veterans' pensions and benefits" has become one of the largest single categories in the Federal
Budget. I am recommending for this purpose total appropriations of 4,787 million dollars for
the fiscal year 1947. Expenditures in the fiscal year are estimated, under present legislation,
at 4,208 million dollars. These expenditures will help our veterans through their readjustment
period and provide lasting care for those who were disabled.

The Congress has provided unemployment allowances for veterans during their readjustment period.
Expenditure of 850 million dollars for this purpose is anticipated for the fiscal year 1947.
In addition, readjustment allowances for self-employed veterans are expected to cost 340 million
dollars in the fiscal year 1947.

On May 28, 1945, in asking the Congress to raise the ceiling on benefits for civilian unemployed
to not less than 25 dollars a week during the immediate reconversion period, I suggested that
the Congress also consider liberalizing veterans' allowances. Elsewhere in this Message I reiterate
my recommendation with respect to emergency unemployment compensation. I also recommend increasing
veterans' unemployment allowances from 20 dollars to 25 dollars a week. This would involve
additional expenditures estimated at approximately 220 million dollars for the fiscal year.

Included in the 1947 Budget is an expenditure of 535 million dollars for veterans' education
under provisions of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act. This amount includes both tuition expenses
and maintenance allowances. It is expected that half a million veterans will be enrolled in
our schools and colleges during the year.

The ultimate benefit which veterans receive from the loan guarantee provisions of the Servicemen's
Readjustment Act depends largely on the success of our stabilization program in restraining
building costs and real estate values. Under the revised procedure contained in recent amendments,
the administrative workload will be minimized by the almost complete transfer of authority
for approving the guarantees to private lending agencies and private appraisers designated
by the Veterans Administration. This authority carries with it the responsibility for restricting
the guarantees to loans on reasonably valued properties. Costs of the program, other than for
administration, are estimated at 21 million dollars in the fiscal year 1947.

Pensions for veterans will require expenditures estimated at 1,748 million dollars for the
fiscal year 1947. Two-thirds of this amount will be received by veterans of the war which we
have just won. This figure includes 55 million dollars of increased pensions for student-veterans
in our vocational rehabilitation program. In addition, 170 million dollars will be expended
in transfers to the National Service Life Insurance fund from general and special accounts.

Expenditures under the appropriation for salaries and expenses of the Veterans Administration
are estimated at 528 million dollars in the fiscal year 1947. This includes 260 million dollars
for medical care and the operation of some 103,000 hospital and domiciliary beds.

A separate appropriation for hospital and domiciliary facilities, additional to the total for
veterans' pensions and benefits, covers construction that will provide some 13,000 hospital
beds as part of the 500-million dollar hospital construction program already authorized by
the Congress. The estimated expenditures of 130 million dollars for this purpose are classified
in the Budget as part of the general public works program for the next fiscal year.

(b) For interest.

Interest payments on the public debt are estimated at 5 billion dollars in the fiscal year
1947, an increase of 250 million dollars from the revised estimate for the current fiscal year.
This increase reflects chiefly payment of interest on additions to the debt this year. Assuming
continuance of present interest rates, the Government's interest bill is now reaching the probable
postwar level.

(c) For refunds.

An estimated total of 1,585 million dollars of refunds will be paid to individuals and corporations
during the fiscal year 1947. Slightly over half of this amount, or 800 million dollars, will
be accessory to the simplified pay-as-you-go method of tax collection, and will be the result
of overwithholding and over declaration of expected income. Most of the remainder will arise
from loss and excess-profits credit carrybacks, recomputed amortization on war plants, and
special relief from the excess profits tax.

This category of expenditures is thus losing gradually its "aftermath-of-war" character, and
by the succeeding year will reflect almost entirely the normal operation of loss carry-backs
and current tax collection.

3. AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS

The agricultural programs contemplated for the fiscal year 1947 are those which are essential
for the provision of an adequate supply of food and other agricultural commodities with a fair
return to American farmers. To support these objectives, expenditures by the Department of
Agriculture estimated at 784 million dollars from general and special accounts will be required
in the fiscal year 1947. This compares with estimated expenditures of 676 million dollars in
1946. These figures exclude expenditures by the Department of Agriculture on account of lend-lease,
the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, and other war expenditures. The
expenditure for the fiscal year 1947 is composed of 553 million dollars for "aids to agriculture,"
35 million dollars for general public works, and 196 million dollars for other services of
the Department.

Net outlays for the price stabilization, price support, and other programs of the Commodity
Credit Corporation are expected to increase from about 750 million dollars in the fiscal year
1946 to about 1,500 million dollars in 1947. Cash advances made on loans by the farm Security
Administration and the Rural Electrification Administration are expected to amount to 266 million
dollars in the fiscal year 1946 and 351 million dollars in 1947; and after receipts from principal
and interest are taken into account, net loan expenditures of these two agencies will amount
to 120 and 209 million dollars in the two fiscal years.

To provide for the expenditures from general and special accounts, I recommend for the fiscal
year 1947 appropriations of million dollars (including the existing permanent appropriation
of an amount equal to 30 percent of estimated annual customs receipts) and a reappropriation
of 88 million dollars of prior-year balances from customs receipts. In addition there is a
recommended authorization of 367.5 million dollars for borrowing from the Reconstruction finance
Corporation for the loan programs of the farm Security Administration and the Rural Electrification
Administration. It is expected that the operations of the Commodity Credit Corporation will
be financed during the coming year through the 500 million dollars of lend-lease funds which
the Congress has earmarked for price support purposes, a supplemental appropriation to restore
impaired capital of the Corporation, and the borrowing authority of the Corporation.

Some detailed recommendations follow for major agricultural programs.

Conservation and use of land.--I am recommending that 270 million dollars be appropriated for
"conservation and use of agricultural land resources"--the so-called AAA program--for the fiscal
year 1947, compared with 356 million dollars in the current year. This reduction of 86 million
dollars is in large part accounted for by elimination of the wartime flax production incentive
project and other nonrecurring items; the proposed reduction in normal activities is less than
33 million dollars.

For the past several years, this program has consisted largely of payments to farmers for application
of fertilizer and other approved soil management practices. I am convinced that farmers generally
are now fully alert to the benefits, both immediate and long-term, which they derive from the
practices encouraged by this program. I believe, therefore, that this subsidization should
continue to be reduced.

Rural electrification.--It is proposed that the loan authorization for the Rural Electrification
Administration for the fiscal year 1947 be increased from 200 million dollars to 250 million
dollars. During the war period, REA was limited by the scarcity of materials and manpower.
But that situation is rapidly changing, and the REA program, which was materially stepped up
for the fiscal year 1946, can be increased still more. It is my belief that a feasible and
practical rural electrification program should be carried forward as rapidly as possible. This
will involve total loans of approximately 1,800 million dollars over the next 10 years, much
of which will be repaid during that period.

Other programs.--It is recommended that the continuing forest land-acquisition program be resumed
at the rate of 3 million dollars annually, which is about the minimum rate at which this program
can be economically carried on. The lands involved in this program can contribute fully to
the national welfare only when brought into the national forest system for protection and development.

Such programs as those of the farm Security Administration and the farm Credit Administration
are estimated to be continued during the fiscal year 1947 at about the same level as in the
fiscal year 1946. Recent action by the Congress has Permitted some expansion of the school
lunch program. I hope it will be continued and expanded. The budgets of the Federal Crop Insurance
Corporation and the federal farm Mortgage Corporation will be transmitted in the spring under
the terms of the Government Corporation Control Act.

4. TRANSPORTATION

Transportation is one of the major fields for both public and private investment. Our facilities
for transportation and communication must be constantly improved to serve better the convenience
of the public and to facilitate the sound growth and development of the whole economy. 

This variety has larger flower-heads, surrounded with a fuller border of ray-florets. The species
belongs to a genus many species of which have produced [494] double varieties. One of them
is the Japanese marigold, others are the carinatum and the imbricatum
species.

Nearly allied are quite a number of garden-plants with double flower-heads, among which are
the double camomiles.

My attention was first drawn to the structure of the heads and especially to the number of the
ray-florets of the corn-marigold. The species appertains to that group of composites which
have a head of small tubular florets surrounded by a broad border of rays. These rays, when
counted, are observed to occur in definite numbers, which are connected with each other by a
formula, known as "the series" of Braun and Schimper. In this formula, which commences with
1 and 2, each number is equal to the sum of the two foregoing figures. Thus 5, 8 and 13 are very
frequent occurrences, and the following number, 21, is a most general one for apparently full rays, such
as in daisies, camomiles, Arnica and many other wild and cultivated species.

These numbers are not at all constant. They are only the averages, around which the real numbers
fluctuate. There may even be an overlapping of the extremes, since the fluctuation around 13 may
even go beyond 8 and 21, and so on. But such extremes are only found in stray flowers, occurring
on the same [495] individuals with the lesser degrees of deviation.

Now the marigold averages 13, and the grandiflorum 21 rays. The wild species is pure in this
respect, but the garden-variety is not. The seeds which are offered
for sale usually contain a mixture of both forms and their hybrids.

So I had to isolate the pure types from this mixture and to ascertain their constancy and mutual
independency. To this end I isolated from the mixture first the 13-rayed, and afterwards the 21-rayed types.
As the marigolds are not sufficiently self-fertile, and are not easily pollinated artificially,
it seemed impossible to carry on these two experiments at the same time and in the same garden. I
devoted the first three years to the lower form, isolated some individuals
with 12-13 rays out of the mixture of 1892 and counted the ray-florets
on the terminal head of every plant of the ensuing generation next
year.

I cultivated and counted in this way above 150 individuals and found
an average of exactly 13 with comparatively few individuals displaying
14 or only 12 rays, and with the remainder of the plants grouped symmetrically
around this average.

I continued the experiment for still another year and found the same group of figures. I was
then satisfied as to the purity of the isolated strain. Next year I sowed a new mixture in [496]
order to isolate the reputed pure grandiflorum type. During the beginning of the flowering period
I ruthlessly threw away all plants displaying less than 21 rays in the first or terminal head.
But this selection was not to be considered as complete, because
the 13-rayed race may eventually transgress its boundary and come
over to the 21 and more.

This made a second selection necessary. On the selected plants all the secondary heads were
inspected and their ray-florets counted. Some individuals showed an average of about 13 and were
destroyed. Others gave doubtful figures and were likewise eliminated, and only 6 out of a lot
of nearly 300 flowering plants reached an average of 21 for all of the flowers.

Our summer is a short one, compared with the long and beautiful summer of California, and it
was too late to cut off the faded and the open flowers, and await new ones, which might be purely fertilized
after the destruction of all minor plants.

So I had to gather the seed from flowers, which might have been partially fertilized by the wrong pollen.
This however, is not so great a drawback in selection experiments as might be supposed at first
sight. The selection of the following year is sure to eliminate the offspring of such impure
parentage.

[497] A far more important principle is that of the hereditary percentage,
already discussed in our lecture on the selection of monstrosities.

In our present case it had to be applied only to the six selected plants of 1895. To this end the
seeds of each of them were sown separately, the ray-florets of the terminal heads of each of
the new generation were counted, and curves and averages were made up for the six groups. Five
of them gave proof of still being mixtures and were wholly rejected.

The children of the sixth parent, however, formed a group of uniform constitution, all fluctuating
around the desired average of 21. All in all the terminal heads of over 1,500 plants have been
subjected to the somewhat tedious work of counting their ray-florets. And this not in the
laboratory, but in the garden, without cutting them off.

Otherwise it would obviously have been impossible to recognize the
best plants for preservation.

I chose only two plants which in addition recommended themselves by the average number of rays on
their secondary heads, sowed their seeds next year separately and compared the numerical constitution
of their offspring. Both groups averaged 21 and were distributed very symmetrically around this
mean.

This result [498] showed that no further selection could be of any avail, and that I had succeeded
in purifying the 21-rayed grandiflorum variety.

It is from this grandiflorum that I have finally produced my double variety. In the year 1896
I selected from among the above quoted 1,500 plants, 500 with terminal heads bearing 21 or more
rays. On these I counted the rays of all the secondary heads about the middle of August (1896)
and found that they had, as a rule, retrograded to lower figures. On many thousands of heads
only two were found having 22 rays.

All others had the average number of 21 or even less. I isolated the individual which bore these
two heads, allowed them to be fertilized by insects with the pollen of some of the best plants
of the same group, but destroyed the remainder.

This single exceptional plant has been the starting point of my double variety. It was not remarkable
for its terminal head, which exhibited the average number of rays of the 21-rayed race. Nor
was it distinguished by the average figure for all its heads. It was only selected because
it was the one plant which had some secondary heads with one ray more than all the others. This
indication was very slight, and could not have been detected save by the counting of the rays
of thousands of heads.

[499] But the rarity of the anomaly was exactly the indication wanted, and the same deviation
would have had no signification whatever, had it occurred in a group fluctuating symmetrically around
the average figure. On the other hand, the observed anomaly was only an indication, and no guarantee
of future developments.

Here it should be remarked that the indication alluded to was not the appearance of the expected
character of doubling in ever so slight a measure. It was only a guide to be followed in further
work. The real character of double flower-heads among composites lies in the production of
rays on the disk. No increase of the number of the outer rays can have the same significance.
A hasty inspection of double flower heads may convey the idea that all rays are arranged around
a little central cluster of disk-florets, the remainder of the original disk-florets but a closer
investigation will always reveal the fallacy of this conclusion.

Hidden between the inner rays, and covered by them, lie the little tubular and fertile florets
everywhere on the disk. They may not be easily seen, but if the supernumerary rays are pulled
out, the disk may be seen to bear numerous small florets at intervals. But these intervals are
not at all numerous, showing thereby that only a relatively small number of tubes has been [500]
converted into rays.

This conversion is obviously the true mark of the doubling, and before traces of it are found,
no assertion whatever can be given as to the issue of the pedigree experiment.

Three more years were required before this first, but decisive trace was discovered. During
these years I subjected my strain to the same sharp selection as has already been described.
The chosen ancestor of the race had flowered in 1896, and the next year I sowed its seeds only.
From this generation I chose the one plant with the largest number of rays in its terminal
head, and repeated this in the following year.

The consequence was that the average number of rays increased rapidly, and with it the absolute maximum
of the whole strain. The average came up from 21 to 34. Brighter and brighter crowns of the yellow
rays improved my race, until it became difficult and very time consuming to count all the large
rays of the borders.

The largest numbers determined in the succeeding generations increased by leaps from 21 to 34
in the first year, and thence to 48 and 66 in the two succeeding summers. Every year I was
able to save enough seed from the very best plant and to use it only for the continuance of
the race.

Before the selected plants were allowed to open the flowers from which the seed [501] was to
be gathered, nearly the whole remaining culture was exterminated, excepting only some of the best
examples, in order to have the required material for cross-pollination
by insects.

Each new generation was thereby as sharply selected as possible with regard to both parents.

All
flower-heads were of course closely inspected. Not the slightest indication of real doubling was
discovered, even in the summer of 1899 in the fourth generation of my selected race. But among
the best the new character suddenly made its appearance. It was at the commencement of September
(1899), too late to admit of the seeds ripening before winter. An inspection of the younger heads
was made, which revealed three heads with some few rays in the midst of the disk on one plant,
the result of the efforts of four years. Had the germ of the mutation lain hidden through all
this time? Had it been present, though dormant in the original sample
of seed?

Or had an entirely new creation taken place during my continuous endeavors? Perhaps as their more or
less immediate result? It is obviously impossible to answer these questions, before further
and similar experiments shall have been performed, bringing to light other details that will enable
us to reach a more definite conclusion.

[502] The fact that the origination of such forms is accessible to direct investigation is proven quite
independently of all further considerations. The new variety came into existence at once.
The leap may have been made by the ancestor of the year 1895, or
by the plant of 1899, which showed the first central rays, or the
sport may have been gradually built up during those four years.

In each case there was a leap, contrasting with the view which claims a very long succession
of years for the development of every new character.

Having discovered this first trace of doubling, it was to be expected that the new variety
would be at once as pure and as rich as other double composites usually are. Some effect of the
crossing with the other seed-bearing individuals might still disturb this uniformity in the
following year, but another year's work would eliminate even this source of impurity.

These two years have given the expected result. The average number of the rays, which had already
arisen from 13 to 34 now at once came up to 47 and 55, the last figure being the sum of 21
and 34 and therefore the probable uttermost limit to be reached before absolute doubling. The maximum
numbers came as high as 100 in 1900, and reached even 200 in 1901. Such heads are as completely
double as are the [503] brightest heads of the most beautiful double commercial varieties of
composites. Even the best white camomiles (Chrysanthemum inodorum) and the gold-flowers or garden-marigolds
(Calendula officinalis) do not come nearer to purity since they always have scores of little
tubular florets between the rays on their disks.

Real atavists or real reversionists were seen no more after the first purification of the race.
I have continued my culture and secured last summer (1903) as many and as completely doubled
heads as previously. The race has at once become permanent and constant. It has of course a
wide range of fluctuating variability, but the lower limit has been worked up to about 34
rays, a figure never reached by the grandiflorum parent, from which
my new variety is thus sharply separated.

Unfortunately the best flowers and even the best individuals of my race are wholly barren. Selection
has reached its practical limit. Seeds must be saved from less dense heads, and no way has been
found of avoiding it.

The ray-florets are sterile, even in the wild species, and when growing in somewhat large
numbers on the disk, they conceal the fertile flowers from the visiting insects, and cause them
also to be sterile. The same is the case with the best cultivated forms. Their showiest individuals are
[504] barren, and incapable of the reproduction of the race.

This last is therefore, of necessity, always continued by means of
individuals whose deviation from the mean average is the least.

But in many cases the varieties are so highly differentiated that selection has become quite
superfluous for practical purposes. I have already discussed the question as to the actual moment,
in which the change of the grandiflorum variety into the new plenum form must be assumed to have
taken place. In this respect some stress is to be laid on the fact that the improvement through
selection has been gradual and continuous, though very rapid from the first moment. But with
the appearance of the first stray rays within the disk, this continuity
suddenly changed.

All the children of this original mutated plant showed the new character, the rays within
the disk, without exception. Not on all the heads, nor even on the majority of the heads on some individuals,
but on some heads all gave clear proof of the possession of the new attribute. This was present
in all the representatives of the new race, and had never been seen
in any of their parents and grandparents.

Here there was evidently a sudden leap, at least in the external
form of the plants.

And it seems to me to be the most simple conception, [505] that this visible leap directly corresponded
to that inner change, which brought about the complete inheritability of the new peculiarity.
It is very interesting to observe how completely my experience agrees with the results of the observations
of breeders at large. No doubt a comparison is difficult, and the circumstances are not adequate to
a close study.

Isolation and selection have been applied commonly only so far as
was consistent with the requirements of practical horticulture, and
of course a determination of the hereditary percentage was never made.

The disregard of this feature made necessary a greater length of time and a larger number
of generations to bring about the desired changes. Notwithstanding this, however, it has been seen
that double varieties are produced suddenly. This may have occurred unexpectedly or after a
few years' effort toward the end desired. Whether this sudden appearance is the consequence of
a single internal differentiating step, or of the rapid succession of lesser changes, cannot
yet be made out. The extreme variability of double flowers and the chance of their appearance
with only slight indications of the previous petaloid alterations of a few stamens may often
result in their origin being overlooked, while subsequent generations may come in for full
notice. [506] In the greater number of cases recorded it remains doubtful whether the work said to
be done to obtain a new double variety was done before the appearance
of these preliminary indications or afterward.

In the first case, it would correspond with our selection of large numbers of florets in the outer
rays, in the second however, with the ordinary purification of new races from hybrid mixtures.

In
scientific selection-experiments such crosses are of course avoided, and the process of purification
is unnecessary, even as in the Chrysanthemum culture. The first generation succeeding the original
plant with disk-rays was in this respect wholly uniform and true to the new type.

In practice the work does not start from such slight indications, and is done with no other purpose
in view than to produce double flowers in species in which they did not already exist. Therefore
it is of the highest importance to know the methods used and the chances of success. Unfortunately
the evidence is very scanty on both points.

Lindley and other writers, on horticultural theory and practice assert that a large amount of
nourishment tends to produce double flowers, while a culture under
normal conditions, [507] even if the plants are very strong and healthy,
has no such effect.

But even here it remains doubtful whether it applies to the period before or after the internal
mutation. On the other hand success is not at all to be relied upon, nor is the work to be
regarded as easy. The instances of double flowers said to be obtainable at will, are too rare
in comparison with the number of cases, where the first indication of them was found accidentally.

Leaving
all these doubtful points, which will have to be cleared up by further
scientific investigation, the high degree of variability requires
further discussion.

It may be considered from three different points of view according to the limit of the deviation
from the average, to the dependency on external conditions and to periodicity. It seems best
to take up the last two points first.

On a visit to a nursery at Erfurt I once inspected an experiment with
a new double variety of the common blue-bottle or blue corn-flower.

The plants were dependent on the weather to a high degree. Bad weather increased the number of poorly
filled flower-heads, while warm and sunny days were productive of beautiful double flowers.
The heads that are borne by strong branches have a greater tendency to become double than those
of the weaker ones, [508] and towards the autumn, when all those of the first group are faded away,
and only a weak though large section of the heads is still flowering, the whole aspect of the variety
gradually retrogrades. The same law of dependency and periodicity is prevalent everywhere. In
my own cultures of the improved field-marigold I have observed it frequently. The number of the
ray-florets may be considered as a direct response to nourishment,
both when this is determined by external circumstances, and when it
depends on the particular strength of the branch, which bears the
head in question. It is a case exactly similar to that of the supernumerary
carpels of the pistilloid poppy, and the deductions arrived at with
that variety may be applied directly to double flowers.

This dependency
upon nourishment is of high practical importance in combination with
the usual effect of the doubling which makes the flowers sterile.
It is a general rule that the most perfect flowers do not produce
seed. At the height of the flowering period the external circumstances
are the most favorable, and the flowering branches still constitute
the stronger axes of the plants. Hence we may infer that sterility
will prevail precisely in this period. Many varieties are known to
yield only seeds from the very last flowers, as for instance some
[509] double begonias. Others bear only seed on their weaker lateral
branches, as the double camomile, or become fertile only towards the
fall, as is often the case with the above quoted Erfurt variety of
the blue-bottle.

We have won a great war--we, the nations of plain people who hate war. In the test of that
war we found a strength of unity that brought us through--a strength that crushed the power
of those who sought by force to deny our faith in the dignity of man.

During this trial the voices of disunity among us were silent or were subdued to an occasional
whine that warned us that they were still among us. Those voices are beginning to cry aloud
again. We must learn constantly to turn deaf ears to them. They are voices which foster fear
and suspicion and intolerance and hate. They seek to destroy our harmony, our understanding
of each other, our American tradition of "live and let live." They have become busy again,
trying to set race against race, creed against creed, farmer against city dweller, worker against
employer, people against their own governments. They seek only to do us mischief. They must
not prevail.

It should be impossible for any man to contemplate without a sense of personal humility the
tremendous events of the 12 months since the last annual Message, the great tasks that confront
us, the new and huge problems of the coming months and years. Yet these very things justify
the deepest confidence in the future of this Nation of free men and women.

The plain people of this country found the courage and the strength, the self-discipline, and
the mutual respect to fight and to win, with the help of our allies, under God. I doubt if
the tasks of the future are more difficult. But if they are, then I say that our strength and
our knowledge and our understanding will be equal to those tasks.

As printed above, references to tables appearing in the budget document have been omitted.

I come before you today to report on the State of the Union and, in the words of the Constitution,
to recommend such measures as I judge necessary and expedient.

I come also to welcome you as you take up your duties and to discuss with you the manner in
which you and I should fulfill our obligations to the American people during the next 2 years.

The power to mold the future of this Nation lies in our hands--yours and mine, and they are
joined together by the Constitution.

If in this year, and in the next, we can find the right course to take as each issue arises,
and if, in spite of all difficulties, we have the courage and the resolution to take that course,
then we shall achieve a state of well-being for our people without precedent in history. And
if we continue to work with the other nations of the world earnestly, patiently, and wisely,
we can--granting a will for peace on the part of our neighbors-make a lasting peace for the world.

But, if we are to realize these ends, the Congress and the President, during the next 2 years,
must work together. It is not unusual in our history that the majority of the Congress represents
a party in opposition to the President's party. I am the twentieth President of the United
States who, at some time during his term of office, has found his own party to be in the minority
in one or both Houses of Congress. The first one was George Washington. Wilson was number eighteen,
and Hoover was number nineteen.

I realize that on some matters the Congress and the President may have honest differences of
opinion. Partisan differences, however, did not cause material disagreements as to the conduct
of the war. Nor, in the conduct of our international relations, during and since the war, have
such partisan differences been material.

On some domestic issues we may, and probably shall, disagree. That in itself is not to be feared.
It is inherent in our form of Government. But there are ways of disagreeing; men who differ
can still work together sincerely for the common good. We shall be risking the Nation's safety
and destroying our opportunities for progress if we do not settle any disagreements in this
spirit, without thought of partisan advantage.

THE GENERAL DOMESTIC ECONOMY

As the year 1947 begins, the state of our national economy presents great opportunities for
all. We have virtually full employment. Our national production of goods and services is 50
percent higher than in any year prior to the war emergency. The national income in 1946 was
higher than in any peacetime year. Our food production is greater than it has ever been. During
the last 5 years our productive facilities have been expanded in almost every field. The American
standard of living is higher now than ever before, and when the housing shortage can be overcome
it will be even higher.

During the past few months we have removed at a rapid rate the emergency controls that the
Federal Government had to exercise during the war. The remaining controls will be retained
only as long as they are needed to protect the public. Private enterprise must be given the
greatest possible freedom to continue the expansion of economy.

In my proclamation of December 31, 1946 I announced the termination of hostilities. This automatically
ended certain temporary legislation and certain executive powers.

Two groups of temporary laws still remain: the first are those which by Congressional mandate
are to last during the "emergency"; the second are those which are to continue until the "termination
of the war,"

I shall submit to the Congress recommendations for the repeal of certain of the statutes which
by their terms continue for the duration of the "emergency." I shall at the same time recommend
that others within this classification be extended until the state of war has been ended by
treaty or by legislative action. As to those statutes which continue until the state of war
has been terminated, I urge that the Congress promptly consider each statute individually,
and repeal such emergency legislation where it is advisable.

Now that nearly all wartime controls have been removed, the operation of our industrial system
depends to a greater extent on the decisions of businessmen, farmers, and workers. These decisions
must be wisely made with genuine concern for public welfare. The welfare of businessmen, farmers,
and workers depends upon the economic well-being of those who buy their products.

An important present source of danger to our economy is the possibility that prices might be
raised to such an extent that the consuming public could not purchase the tremendous volume
of goods and services which will be produced during 1947.

We all know that recent price increases have denied to many of our workers much of the value
of recent wage increases. Farmers have found that a large part of their increased income has
been absorbed by increased prices. While some of our people have received raises in income
which exceed price increases, the great majority have not. Those persons who live on modest
fixed incomes--retired persons living on pensions, for example--and workers whose incomes are
relatively inflexible, such as teachers and other civil servants--have suffered hardship.

In the effort to bring about a sound and equitable price structure, each group of our population
has its own responsibilities.

It is up to industry not only to hold the line on existing prices, but to make reductions whenever
profits justify such action.

It is up to labor to refrain from pressing for unjustified wage increases that will force increases
in the price level.

And it is up to Government to do everything in its power to encourage high-volume Production,
for that is what makes possible good wages, low prices, and reasonable profits.

In a few days there will be submitted to the Congress the Economic Report of the President,
and also the Budget Message. Those messages will contain many recommendations. Today I shall
outline five major economic policies which I believe the Government should pursue during 1947.
These policies are designed to meet our immediate needs and, at the same time, to provide for
the long-range welfare of our free enterprise system:

First, the promotion of greater harmony between labor and management.

Second, restriction of monopoly and unfair business practices; assistance to small business;
and the promotion of the free competitive system of private enterprise.

Third, continuation of an aggressive program of home construction.

Fourth, the balancing of the budget in the next fiscal year and the achieving of a substantial
surplus to be applied to the reduction of the public debt.

Fifth, protection of a fair level of return to farmers in post-war agriculture.

LABOR AND MANAGEMENT

The year just past--like the year after the first World War--was marred by labor management strife.

Despite this outbreak of economic warfare in 1946, we are today producing goods and services
in record volume. Nevertheless, it is essential to improve the methods for reaching agreement
between labor and management and to reduce the number of strikes and lockouts.

We must not, however, adopt punitive legislation. We must not in order to punish a few labor
leaders, pass vindictive laws which will restrict the proper rights of the rank and file of
labor. We must not, under the stress of emotion, endanger our American freedoms by taking ill-considered
action which will lead to results not anticipated or desired.

We must remember, in reviewing the record of disputes in 1946, that management shares with
labor the responsibility for failure to reach agreements which would have averted strikes.
For that reason, we must realize that industrial peace cannot be achieved merely by laws directed
against labor unions.

During the last decade and a half, we have established a national labor policy in this country
based upon free collective bargaining as the process for determining wages and working conditions.

That is still the national policy.

And it should continue to be the national policy!

But as yet, not all of us have learned what it means to bargain freely and fairly. Nor have
all of us learned to carry the mutual responsibilities that accompany the right to bargain.
There have been abuses and harmful practices which limit the effectiveness of our system of
collective bargaining. Furthermore, we have lacked sufficient governmental machinery to aid
labor and management in resolving their differences.

Certain labor-management problems need attention at once and certain others, by reason of their
complexity, need exhaustive investigation and study.

We should enact legislation to correct certain abuses and to provide additional governmental
assistance in bargaining. But we should also concern ourselves with the basic causes of labor-management
difficulties.

In the light of these considerations, I propose to you and urge your cooperation in effecting
the following four-point program to reduce industrial strife:

Point number one is the early enactment of legislation to prevent certain unjustifiable practices.

First, under this point, are jurisdictional strikes. In such strikes the public and the employer
are innocent bystanders who are injured by a collision between rival unions. This type of dispute
hurts production, industry, and the public--and labor itself. I consider jurisdictional strikes
indefensible.

The National Labor Relations Act provides procedures for determining which union represents
employees of a particular employer. In some jurisdictional disputes, however, minority unions
strike to compel employers to deal with them despite a legal duty to bargain with the majority
union. Strikes to compel an employer to violate the law are inexcusable. Legislation to prevent
such strikes is clearly desirable.

Another form of inter-union disagreement is the jurisdictional strike involving the question
of which labor union is entitled to perform a particular task. When rival unions are unable
to settle such disputes themselves, provision must be made for peaceful and binding determination
of the issues.

A second unjustifiable practice is the secondary boycott, when used to further jurisdictional
disputes or to compel employers to violate the National Labor Relations Act.

Not all secondary boycotts are unjustified. We must judge them on the basis of their objectives.
For example, boycotts intended to protect wage rates and working conditions should be distinguished
from those in furtherance of jurisdictional disputes. The structure of industry sometimes requires
unions, as a matter of self-preservation, to extend the conflict beyond a particular employer.
There should be no blanket prohibition against boycotts. The appropriate goal is legislation
which prohibits secondary boycotts in pursuance of unjustifiable objectives, but does not impair
the union's right to preserve its own existence and the gains made in genuine collective bargaining.

A third practice that should be corrected is the use of economic force, by either labor or
management, to decide issues arising out of the interpretation of existing contracts.

Collective bargaining agreements, like other contracts, should be faithfully adhered to by
both parties. In the most enlightened union-management relationships, disputes over the interpretation
of contract terms are settled peaceably by negotiation or arbitration. Legislation should be
enacted to provide machinery whereby unsettled disputes concerning the interpretation of an
existing agreement may be referred by either party to final and binding arbitration.

Point number two is the extension of facilities within the Department of Labor for assisting
collective bargaining.

One of our difficulties in avoiding labor strife arises from a lack of order in the collective
bargaining process. The parties often do not have a dear understanding of their responsibility
for settling disputes through their own negotiations. We constantly see instances where labor
or management resorts to economic force without exhausting the possibilities for agreement
through the bargaining process. Neither the parties nor the Government have a definite yardstick
for determining when and how Government assistance should be invoked. There is need for integrated
governmental machinery to provide the successive steps of mediation, voluntary arbitration,
and--ultimately in appropriate cases--ascertainment of the facts of the dispute and the reporting
of the facts to the public. Such machinery would facilitate and expedite the settlement of
disputes.

Point number three is the broadening of our program of social legislation to alleviate the
causes of workers' insecurity.

On June 11, 1946, in my message vetoing the Case Bill, I made a comprehensive statement of
my views concerning labor-management relations. I said then, and I repeat now, that the solution
of labor-management difficulties is to be found not only in legislation dealing directly with
labor relations, but also in a program designed to remove the causes of insecurity felt by
many workers in our industrial society. In this connection, for example, the Congress should
consider the extension and broadening of our social security system, better housing, a comprehensive
national health program, and provision for a fair minimum wage.

Point number four is the appointment of a Temporary Joint Commission to inquire into the entire
field of labor-management relations.

I recommend that the Congress provide for the appointment of a Temporary Joint Commission to
undertake this broad study.

The President, the Congress, and management and labor have a continuing responsibility to cooperate
in seeking and finding the solution of these problems. I therefore recommend that the Commission
be composed as follows: twelve to be chosen by the Congress from members of both parties in
the House and the Senate, and eight representing the public, management and labor, to be appointed
by the President.

The Commission should be charged with investigating and making recommendations upon certain
major subjects, among others:

First, the special and unique problem of nationwide strikes in vital industries affecting the
public interest. In particular, the Commission should examine into the question of how to settle
or prevent such strikes without endangering our general democratic freedoms.

Upon a proper solution of this problem may depend the whole industrial future of the United
States. The paralyzing effects of a nationwide strike in such industries as transportation,
coal, oil, steel, or communications can result in national disaster. We have been able to avoid
such disaster, in recent years, only by the use of extraordinary war powers. All those powers
will soon be gone. In their place there must be created an adequate system and effective machinery
in these vital fields. This problem will require careful study and a bold approach, but an
approach consistent with the preservation of the rights of our people. The need is pressing.
The Commission should give this its earliest attention.

Second, the best methods and procedures for carrying out the collective bargaining process.
This should include the responsibilities of labor and management to negotiate freely and fairly
with each other, and to refrain from strikes or lockouts until all possibilities of negotiation
have been exhausted.

Third, the underlying causes of labor management disputes.

Some of the subjects presented here for investigation involve long-range study. Others can
be considered immediately by the Commission and its recommendations can be submitted to the
Congress in the near future.

I recommend that this Commission make its first report, including specific legislative recommendations,
not later than March 15, 1947.

RESTRICTION Of MONOPOLY AND PROMOTION OF PRIVATE ENTERPRISE

The second major policy I desire to lay before you has to do with the growing concentration
of economic power and the threat to free competitive private enterprise. In 1941 the Temporary
National Economic Committee completed a comprehensive investigation into the workings of the
national economy. The Committee's study showed that, despite a half century of anti-trust law
enforcement, one of the gravest threats to our welfare lay in the increasing concentration
of power in the hands of a small number of giant organizations.

During the war, this long-standing tendency toward economic concentration was accelerated.
As a consequence, we now find that to a greater extent than ever before, whole industries are
dominated by one or a few large organizations which can restrict production in the interest
of higher profits and thus reduce employment and purchasing power.

In an effort to assure full opportunity and free competition to business we will vigorously
enforce the anti-trust laws. There is much the Congress can do to cooperate and assist in this
program.

To strengthen and enforce the laws that regulate business practices is not enough. Enforcement
must be supplemented by positive measures of aid to new enterprises. Government assistance,
research programs, and credit powers should be designed and used to promote the growth of new
firms and new industries. Assistance to small business is particularly important at this time
when thousands of veterans who are potential business and industrial leaders are beginning
their careers.

We should also give special attention to the decentralization of industry and the development
of areas that are now under-industrialized.

HOUSING

The third major policy is also of great importance to the national economy: an aggressive program
to encourage housing construction. The first federal program to relieve the veterans' housing
shortage was announced in February 1946. In 1946 one million family housing units have been
put under construction and more than 665,000 units have already been completed. The rate of
expansion in construction has broken all records.

In the coming year the number of dwelling units built will approach, if not surpass, the top
construction year of 1926. The primary responsibility to deliver housing at reasonable prices
that veterans can afford rests with private industry and with labor. The Government will continue
to expedite the flow of key building materials, to limit nonresidential construction, and to
give financial support where it will do the most good. Measures to stimulate rental housing
and new types of housing construction will receive special emphasis.

To reach our long-range goal of adequate housing for all our people, comprehensive housing
legislation is urgently required, similar to the non-partisan bill passed by the Senate last
year. At a minimum, such legislation should open the way for rebuilding the blighted areas
of our cities and should establish positive incentives for the investment of billions of dollars
of private capital in large-scale rental housing projects. It should provide for improvement
of housing in rural areas and for the construction, over a 4-year period, of half a million
units of public low-rental housing. It should authorize a single peacetime federal housing
agency to assure efficient use of our resources on the vast housing front.

FISCAL AFFAIRS

The fourth major policy has to do with the balancing of the budget. In a prosperous period
such as the present one, the budget of the Federal Government should be balanced. Prudent management
of public finance requires that we begin the process of reducing the public debt. The budget
which I shall submit to you this week has a small margin of surplus. In the Budget Message
I am making recommendations which, if accepted, will result in a substantially larger surplus
which should be applied to debt retirement. One of these recommendations is that the Congress
take early action to continue throughout the next fiscal year the war excise tax rates which,
under the present law, will expire on June 30, 1947.

Expenditures relating to the war are still high. Considerable sums are required to alleviate
world famine and suffering. Aid to veterans will continue at peak level. The world situation
is such that large military expenditures are required. Interest on the public debt and certain
other costs are irreducible. For these reasons I have had to practice stringent economy in
preparing the budget; and I hope that the Congress will cooperate in this program of economy.

AGRICULTURE

The fifth major policy has to do with the welfare of our farm population.

Production of food reached record heights in 1946. Much of our tremendous grain crop can readily
be sold abroad and thus will become no threat to our domestic markets. But in the next few
years American agriculture can face the same dangers it did after World War I. In the early
twenties the Nation failed to maintain outlets for the new productive capacity of our agricultural
plant. It failed to provide means to protect the farmer while he adjusted his acreage to peacetime
demands.

The result we all remember too well. Farm production stayed up while demand and prices fell,
in contrast with industry where prices stayed up and output declined, farm surpluses piled
up, and disaster followed.

We must make sure of meeting the problems which we failed to meet after the first World War.
Present laws give considerable stability to farm prices for 1947 and 1948, and these 2 years
must be utilized to maintain and develop markets for our great productive power.

The purpose of these laws was to permit an orderly transition from war to peace. The Government
plan of support prices was not designed to absorb, at great cost, the unlimited surpluses of
a highly productive agriculture.

We must not wait until the guarantees expire to set the stage for permanent farm welfare.

The farmer is entitled to a fair income.

Ways can be found to utilize his new skills and better practices, to expand his markets at
home and abroad, and to carry out the objectives of a balanced pattern of peacetime production
without either undue sacrifice by farm people or undue expense to the Government.

HEALTH AND GENERAL WELFARE

Of all our national resources, none is of more basic value than the health of our people. Over
a year ago I presented to the Congress my views on a national health program. The Congress
acted on several of the recommendations in this program-mental health, the health of mothers
and children, and hospital construction. I urge this Congress to complete the work begun last
year and to enact the most important recommendation of the program--to provide adequate medical
care to all who need it, not as charity but on the basis of payments made by the beneficiaries
of the program.

One administrative change would help greatly to further our national program in the fields
of health, education, and welfare. I again recommend the establishment of a well-integrated
Department of Welfare.

VETERANS

Fourteen million World War II servicemen have returned to civil life. The great majority have
found their places as citizens of their communities and their Nation. It is a tribute to the
fiber of our servicemen and to the flexibility of our economy that these adjustments have been
made so rapidly and so successfully.

More than two million of these veterans are attending schools or acquiring job skills through
the financial assistance of the Federal Government. Thousands of sick and wounded veterans
are daily receiving the best of medical and hospital care. Half a million have obtained loans,
with Government guarantees, to purchase homes or farms or to embark upon new businesses. Compensation
is being paid in almost two million cases for disabilities or death. More than three million
are continuing to maintain their low-cost National Service Life Insurance policies. Almost
seven million veterans have been aided by unemployment and self-employment allowances.

Exclusive of mustering-out payments and terminal leave pay, the program for veterans of all
wars is costing over seven billion dollars a year--one-fifth of our total federal budget. This
is the most far-reaching and complete veterans program ever conceived by any nation.

Except for minor adjustments, I believe that our program of benefits for veterans is now complete.
In the long run, the success of the program will not be measured by the number of veterans
receiving financial aid or by the number of dollars we spend. History will judge us not by
the money we spend, but by the further contribution we enable our veterans to make to their
country. In considering any additional legislation, that must be our criterion.

CIVIL RIGHTS

We have recently witnessed in this country numerous attacks upon the constitutional rights
of individual citizens as a result of racial and religious bigotry. Substantial segments of
our people have been prevented from exercising fully their right to participate in the election
of public officials, both locally and nationally. Freedom to engage in lawful callings has
been denied.

The will to fight these crimes should be in the hearts of every one of us.

For the Federal Government that fight is now being carried on by the Department of Justice
to the full extent of the powers that have been conferred upon it. While the Constitution withholds
from the Federal Government the major task of preserving peace in the several States, I am
not convinced that the present legislation reached the limit of federal power to protect the
civil rights of its citizens.

I have, therefore, by Executive Order,[1] established the President's Committee on Civil Rights
to study and report on the whole problem of federally-secured civil rights, with a view to
making recommendations to the Congress.

[Footnote 1: Executive Order 9808 (3 CFR, 1943-1948 Comp., p. 590.)]

NATURAL RESOURCES

In our responsibility to promote the general welfare of the people, we have always to consider
the natural resources of our country. They are the foundation of our life. In the development
of the great river systems of America there is the major opportunity of our generation to contribute
to the increase of the national wealth. This program is already well along; it should be pushed
with full vigor.

I must advise the Congress that we are rapidly becoming a "have not" Nation as to many of our
minerals. The economic progress and the security of our country depend upon an expanding return
of mineral discovery and upon improved methods of recovery. The Federal Government must do
its part to meet this need.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Progress in reaching our domestic goals is closely related to our conduct of foreign affairs.
All that I have said about maintaining a sound and prosperous economy and improving the welfare
of our people has greater meaning because of the world leadership of the United States. What
we do, or fail to do, at home affects not only ourselves but millions throughout the world.
If we are to fulfill our responsibilities to ourselves and to other peoples, we must make sure
that the United States is sound economically, socially, and politically. Only then will we
be able to help bring about the elements of peace in other countries--political stability,
economic advancement, and social progress.

Peace treaties for Italy, Bulgaria, Rumania, and Hungary have finally been prepared. Following
the signing of these treaties next month in Paris, they will be submitted to the Senate for
ratification. This Government does not regard the treaties as completely satisfactory. Whatever
their defects, however, I am convinced that they are as good as we can hope to obtain by agreement
among the principal wartime Allies. Further dispute and delay would gravely jeopardize political
stability in the countries concerned for many years.

During the long months of debate on these treaties, we have made it clear to all nations that
the United States will not consent to settlements at the expense of principles we regard as
vital to a just and enduring peace. We have made it equally dear that we will not retreat to
isolationism. Our policies will be the same during the forthcoming negotiations in Moscow on
the German and Austrian treaties, and during the future conferences on the Japanese treaty.

The delay in arriving at the first peace settlements is due partly to the difficulty of reaching
agreement with the Soviet Union on the terms of settlement. Whatever differences there may
have been between us and the Soviet Union, however, should not be allowed to obscure the fact
that the basic interests of both nations lie in the early making of a peace under which the
peoples of all countries may return, as free men and women, to the essential tasks of production
and reconstruction. The major concern of each of us should be the promotion of collective security,
not the advancement of individual security.

Our policy toward the Soviet Union is guided by the same principles which determine our policies
toward all nations. We seek only to uphold the principles of international justice which have
been embodied in the Charter of the United Nations.

We must now get on with the peace settlements. The occupying powers should recognize the independence
of Austria and withdraw their troops. The Germans and the Japanese cannot be left in doubt
and fear as to their future; they must know their national boundaries, their resources, and
what reparations they must pay. Without trying to manage their internal affairs, we can insure
that these countries do not re-arm.

INTERNATIONAL RELIEF AND DISPLACED PERSONS

The United States can be proud of its part in caring for the peoples reduced to want by the
ravages of war, and in aiding nations to restore their national economies. We have shipped
more supplies to the hungry peoples of the world since the end of the war than all other countries
combined!

However, insofar as admitting displaced persons is concerned, I do not feel that the United
States has done its part. Only about 5,000 of them have entered this country since May, 1946.
The fact is that the executive agencies are now doing all that is reasonably possible under
the limitation of the existing law and established quotas. Congressional assistance in the
form of new legislation is needed. I urge the Congress to turn its attention to this world
problem, in an effort to find ways whereby we can fulfill our responsibilities to these thousands
of homeless and suffering refugees of all faiths.

INTERNATIONAL TRADE

World economic cooperation is essential to world political cooperation. We have made a good
start on economic cooperation through the International Bank, the International Monetary fund,
and the Export-Import Bank. We must now take other steps for the reconstruction of world trade
and we should continue to strive for an international trade system as free from obstructions
as possible.

ATOMIC ENERGY

The United States has taken the lead in the endeavor to put atomic energy under effective international
control. We seek no monopoly for ourselves or for any group of nations. We ask only that there
be safeguards sufficient to insure that no nation will be able to use this power for military
purposes. So long as all governments are not agreed on means of international control of atomic
energy, the shadow of fear will obscure the bright prospects for the peaceful use of this enormous
power.

In accordance with the Atomic Energy Act of 1946, the Commission established under that law
is assuming full jurisdiction over domestic atomic energy enterprise. The program of the Commission
will, of course, be worked out in close collaboration with the military services in conformity
with the wish of the Congress, but it is my fervent hope that the military significance of
atomic energy will steadily decline. We look to the Commission to foster the development of
atomic energy for industrial use and scientific and medical research. In the vigorous and effective
development of peaceful uses of atomic energy rests our hope that this new force may ultimately
be turned into a blessing for all nations.

MILITARY POLICY

In 1946 the Army and Navy completed the demobilization of their wartime forces. They are now
maintaining the forces which we need for national defense and to fulfill our international
obligations.

We live in a world in which strength on the part of peace-loving nations is still the greatest
deterrent to aggression. World stability can be destroyed when nations with great responsibilities
neglect to maintain the means of discharging those responsibilities.

This is an age when unforeseen attack could come with unprecedented speed. We must be strong
enough to defeat, and thus forestall, any such attack. In our steady Progress toward a more
rational world order, the need for large armed forces is progressively declining; but the stabilizing
force of American military strength must not be weakened until our hopes are fully realized.
When a system of collective security under the United Nations has been established, we shall
be willing to lead in collective disarmament, but, until such a system becomes a reality, we
must not again allow ourselves to become weak and invite attack.

For those reasons, we need well-equipped, well-trained armed forces and we must be able to
mobilize rapidly our resources in men and material for our own defense, should the need arise.

The Army will be reduced to 1,070,000 officers and men by July 1, 1947. Half of the Army will
be used for occupation duties abroad and most of the remainder will be employed at home in
the support of these overseas forces.

The Navy is supporting the occupation troops in Europe and in the Far East. Its fundamental
mission--to support our national interests wherever required--is unchanged. The Navy, including
the Marine Corps, will average 571,000 officers and men during the fiscal year 1948.

We are encountering serious difficulties in maintaining our forces at even these reduced levels.
Occupation troops are barely sufficient to carry out the duties which our foreign policy requires.
Our forces at home are at a point where further reduction is impracticable. We should like
an Army and a Navy composed entirely of long-term volunteers, but in spite of liberal inducements
the basic needs of the Army are not now being met by voluntary enlistments.

The War Department has advised me that it is unable to make an accurate forecast at the present
time as to whether it will be possible to maintain the strength of the Army by relying exclusively
on volunteers. The situation will be much clearer in a few weeks, when the results of the campaign
for volunteers are known. The War Department will make its recommendations as to the need for
the extension of Selective Service in sufficient time to enable the Congress to take action
prior to the expiration of the present law on March 31st. The responsibility for maintaining
our armed forces at the strength necessary for our national safety rests with the Congress.

The development of a trained citizen reserve is also vital to our national security. This can
best be accomplished through universal training. I have appointed an Advisory Commission on
Universal Training to study the various plans for a training program, and I expect that the
recommendations of the Commission will be of benefit to the Congress and to me in reaching
decisions on this problem.

The cost of the military establishment is substantial. There is one certain way by which we
can cut costs and at the same time enhance our national security. That is by the establishment
of a single Department of National Defense. I shall communicate with the Congress in the near
future with reference to the establishment of a single Department of National Defense.

National security does not consist only of an army, a navy, and an air force. It rests on a
much broader basis. It depends on a sound economy of prices and wages, on prosperous agriculture,
on satisfied and productive workers, on a competitive private enterprise free from monopolistic
repression, on continued industrial harmony and production, on civil liberties and human freedoms-on
all the forces which create in our men and women a strong moral fiber and spiritual stamina.

But we have a higher duty and a greater responsibility than the attainment of our own national
security. Our goal is collective security for all mankind.

If we can work in a spirit of understanding and mutual respect, we can fulfill this solemn
obligation which rests upon us.

The spirit of the American people can set the course of world history. If we maintain and strengthen
our cherished ideals, and if we share our great bounty with war-stricken people over the world,
then the faith of our citizens in freedom and democracy will be spread over the whole earth
and free men everywhere will share our devotion to those ideals.

Let us have the will and the patience to this job together.

May the Lord strengthen us in our faith.

May He give us wisdom to lead the peoples of the world in His ways of peace.

***

State of the Union Address Harry S. Truman January 7, 1948

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, and Members of the 80th Congress:

We are here today to consider the state of the Union.

On this occasion, above all others, the Congress and the President should concentrate their
attention, not upon party but upon the country; not upon things which divide us but upon those
which bind us together--the enduring principles of our American system, and our common aspirations
for the future welfare and security of the people of the United States.

The United States has become great because [p.2] we, as a people, have been able to work together
for great objectives even while differing about details.

The elements of our strength are many. They include our democratic government, our economic
system, our great natural resources. But these are only partial explanations.

The basic source of our strength is spiritual. For we are a people with a faith. We believe
in the dignity of man. We believe that he was created in the image of the Father of us all.

We do not believe that men exist merely to strengthen the state or to be cogs in the economic
machine. We do believe that governments are created to serve the people and that economic systems
exist to minister to their wants. We have a profound devotion to the welfare and rights of
the individual as a human being.

The faith of our people has particular meaning at this time in history because of the unsettled
and changing state of the world.

The victims of war in many lands are striving to rebuild their lives, and are seeking assurance
that the tragedy of war will not occur again. Throughout the world new ideas are challenging
the old. Men of all nations are reexamining the beliefs by which they live. Great scientific
and industrial changes have released new forces which will affect the future course of civilization.

The state of our Union reflects the changing nature of the modern world. On all sides there
is heartening evidence of great energy--of capacity for economic development-and even more
important, capacity for spiritual growth. But accompanying this great activity there are equally
great questions, great anxieties, and great aspirations. They represent the concern of an enlightened
people that conditions should be so arranged as to make life more worthwhile.

We must devote ourselves to finding answers to these anxieties and aspirations. We seek answers
which will embody the moral and spiritual elements of tolerance, unselfishness, and brotherhood
upon which true freedom and opportunity must rest.

As we examine the state of our Union today, we can benefit from viewing it on a basis of the
accomplishments of the last decade and of our goals for the next. How far have we come during
the last 10 years and how far can we go in the next 10?

It was 10 years ago that the determination of dictators to wage war upon mankind became apparent.
The years that followed brought untold death and destruction.

We shared in the human suffering of the war, but we were fortunate enough to escape most of
war's destruction. We were able through these 10 years to expand the productive strength of
our farms and factories.

More important, however, is the fact that these years brought us new courage, new confidence
in the ideals of our free democracy. Our deep belief in freedom and justice was reinforced
in the crucible of war.

On the foundations of our greatly strengthened economy and our renewed confidence in democratic
values, we can continue to move forward.

There are some who look with fear and distrust upon planning for the future. Yet our great
national achievements have been attained by those with vision. Our Union was formed, our frontiers
were pushed back, and our great industries were built by men who looked ahead.

I propose that we look ahead today toward those goals for the future which have the greatest
bearing upon the foundations of our democracy and the happiness of our people.

I do so, confident in the thought that with clear objectives and with firm determination, we
can, in the next 10 years, build upon the [p.3] accomplishments of the past decade to achieve
a glorious future. Year by year, beginning now, we must make a substantial part of this progress.

Our first goal is to secure fully the essential human rights of our citizens.

The United States has always had a deep concern for human rights. Religious freedom, free speech,
and freedom of thought are cherished realities in our land. Any denial of human rights is a
denial of the basic beliefs of democracy and of our regard for the worth of each individual.

Today, however, some of our citizens are still denied equal opportunity for education, for
jobs and economic advancement, and for the expression of their views at the polls. Most serious
of all, some are denied equal protection under laws. Whether discrimination is based on race,
or creed, or color, or land of origin, it is utterly contrary to American ideals of democracy.

The recent report of the President's Committee on Civil Rights points the way to corrective
action by the Federal Government and by State and local governments. Because of the need for
effective Federal action, I shall send a special message to the Congress on this important subject.

We should also consider our obligation to assure the fullest possible measure of civil rights
to the people of our territories and possessions. I believe that the time has come for Alaska
and Hawaii to be admitted to the Union as States.

Our second goal is to protect and develop our human resources.

The safeguarding of the rights of our citizens must be accompanied by an equal regard for their
opportunities for development and their protection from economic insecurity. In this Nation
the ideals of freedom and equality can be given specific meaning in terms of health, education,
social security, and housing.

Over the past 12 years we have erected a sound framework of social security legislation. Many
millions of our citizens are now protected against the loss of income which can come with unemployment,
old age, or the death of wage earners. Yet our system has gaps and inconsistencies; it is only
half finished.

We should now extend unemployment compensation, old age benefits, and survivors' benefits to
millions who are not now protected. We should also raise the level of benefits.

The greatest gap in our social security structure is the lack of adequate provision for the
Nation's health. We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to
provide in the United States. The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to
pay for the care they need.

I have often and strongly urged that this condition demands a national health program. The
heart of the program must be a national system of payment for medical care based on well-tried
insurance principles. This great Nation cannot afford to allow its citizens to suffer needlessly
from the lack of proper medical care.

Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally
against insecurity and ill health.

Another fundamental aim of our democracy is to provide an adequate education for every person.

Our educational systems face a financial crisis. It is deplorable that in a Nation as rich
as ours there are millions of children who do not have adequate schoolhouses or enough teachers
for a good elementary or secondary education. If there are educational inadequacies in any
State, the whole Nation suffers. The Federal Government has a responsibility for providing
financial aid to meet this crisis.

In addition, we must make possible greater equality of opportunity to all our citizens for
education. Only by so doing can we insure that our citizens will be capable of understanding
and sharing the responsibilities of democracy.

The Government's programs for health, education, and security are of such great importance
to our democracy that we should now establish an executive department for their administration.

Health and education have their beginning in the home. No matter what our hospitals or schools
are like, the youth of our Nation are handicapped when millions of them live in city slums
and country shacks. Within the next decade, we must see that every American family has a decent
home. As an immediate step we need the long-range housing program which I have recommended
on many occasions to this Congress. This should include financial aids designed to yield more
housing at lower prices. It should provide public housing for low-income families, and vigorous
development of new techniques to lower the cost of building.

Until we can overcome the present drastic housing shortage, we must extend and strengthen rent
control.

We have had, and shall continue to have, a special interest in the welfare of our veterans.
Over 14 million men and women who served in the armed forces in World War II have now returned
to civilian life. Over 2 million veterans are being helped through school. Millions have been
aided while finding jobs, and have been helped in buying homes, in obtaining medical care,
and in adjusting themselves to physical handicaps.

All but a very few veterans have successfully made the transition from military life to their
home communities. The success of our veterans' program is proved by this fact. This Nation
is proud of the eagerness shown by our veterans to become self-reliant and self-supporting
citizens.

Our third goal is to conserve and use our natural resources so that they can contribute most
effectively to the welfare of our people.

The resources given by nature to this country are rich and extensive. The material foundations
of our growth and economic development are the bounty of our fields, the wealth of our mines
and forests, and the energy of our waters. As a Nation, we are coming to appreciate more each
day the dose relationship between the conservation of these resources and the preservation
of our national strength.

We are doing far less than we know how to do to make use of our resources without destroying
them. Both the public and private use of these resources must have the primary objective of
maintaining and increasing these basic supports for an expanding future.

We must continue to take specific steps toward this goal. We must vigorously defend our natural
wealth against those who would misuse it for selfish gain.

We need accurate and comprehensive knowledge of our mineral resources and must intensify our
efforts to develop new supplies and to acquire stockpiles of scarce materials.

We need to protect and restore our land-public and private--through combating erosion and rebuilding
the fertility of the soil.

We must expand our reclamation program to bring millions of acres of arid land into production,
and to improve water supplies for additional millions of acres. This will provide new opportunities
for veterans and others, particularly in the West, and aid in providing a rising living standard
for a growing population.

We must protect and restore our forests by sustained-yield forestry and by planting [p.5] new
trees in areas now slashed and barren.

We must continue to erect multiple-purpose dams on our great rivers--not only to reclaim land,
but also to prevent floods, to extend our inland waterways and to provide hydroelectric power.
This public power must not be monopolized for private gain. Only through well-established policies
of transmitting power directly to its market and thus encouraging widespread use at low rates
can the Federal Government assure the people of their full share of its benefits. Additional
power--public and private--is needed to raise the ceilings now imposed by power shortages on
industrial and agricultural development.

We should achieve the wise use of resources through the integrated development of our great
river basins. We can learn much from our Tennessee Valley experience. We should no longer delay
in applying the lessons of that vast undertaking to our other great river basins.

Our fourth goal is to lift the standard of living for all our people by strengthening our economic
system and sharing more broadly among our people the goods we produce.

The amazing economic progress of the past 10 years points the way for the next 10.

Today 14 million more people have jobs than in 1938.

Our yearly output of goods and services has increased by two-thirds.

The average income of our people, measured in dollars of equal purchasing power, has increased--after
taxes--by more than 50 percent.

In no other 10 years have farmers, businessmen, and wage earners made such great gains.

We may not be able to expand as rapidly in the next decade as in the last, because we are now
starting from full employment and very high production. But we can increase our annual output
by at least one-third above the present level. We can lift our standard of living to nearly
double what it was 10 years ago.

If we distribute these gains properly, we can go far toward stamping out poverty in our generation.

To do this, agriculture, business, and labor must move forward together.

Permanent farm prosperity and agricultural abundance will be achieved only as our whole economy
grows and prospers. The farmer can sell more food at good prices when the incomes of wage earners
are high and when there is full employment. Adequate diets for every American family, and the
needs of our industries at full production, will absorb a farm output well above our present
levels.

Although the average farmer is now better off than ever before, farm families as a whole have
only begun to catch up with the standards of living enjoyed in the cities. In 1946, the average
income of farm people was $779, contrasted with an average income of $1,288 for nonfarm people.
Within the next decade, we should eliminate elements of inequality in these living standards.

To this end our farm program should enable the farmer to market his varied crops at fair price
levels and to improve his standard of living.

We need to continue price supports for major farm commodities on a basis which will afford
reasonable protection against fluctuations in the levels of production and demand. The present
price support program must be reexamined and modernized.

Crop insurance should be strengthened and its benefits extended in order to protect the farmer
against the special hazards to which he is subject.

We also need to improve the means for getting farm products into markets and into the hands
of consumers. Cooperatives which [p.6] directly or indirectly serve this purpose must be encouraged--not
discouraged. The school lunch program should be continued and adequately financed.

We need to go forward with the rural electrification program to bring the benefits of electricity
to all our farm population.

We can, and must, aid and encourage farmers to conserve their soil resources and restore the
fertility of the land that has suffered from neglect or unwise use.

All these are practical measures upon which we should act immediately to enable agriculture
to make its full contribution to our prosperity.

We must also strengthen our economic system within the next decade by enlarging our industrial
capacity within the framework of our free enterprise system.

We are today far short of the industrial capacity we need for a growing future. At least $50
billion should be invested by industry to improve and expand our productive facilities over
the next few years. But this is only the beginning. The industrial application of atomic energy
and other scientific advances will constantly open up further opportunities for expansion.
Farm prosperity and high employment will call for an immensely increased output of goods and
services.

Growth and vitality in our economy depend on vigorous private enterprise. Free competition
is the key to industrial development, full production and employment, fair prices, and an ever
improving standard of living. Competition is seriously limited today in many industries by
the concentration of economic power and other elements of monopoly. The appropriation of sufficient
funds to permit proper enforcement of the present antitrust laws is essential. Beyond that
we should go on to strengthen our legislation to protect competition.

Another basic element of a strong economic system is the well-being of the wage earners.

We have learned that the well-being of workers depends on high production and consequent high
employment. We have learned equally well that the welfare of industry and agriculture depends
on high incomes for our workers.

The Government has wisely chosen to set a floor under wages. But our 40-cent minimum wage is
inadequate and obsolete. I recommend the lifting of the minimum wage to 75 cents an hour.

In general, however, we must continue to rely on our sound system of collective bargaining
to set wage scales. Workers' incomes should increase at a rate consistent with the maintenance
of sound price, profit, and wage relationships and with increase of productivity.

The Government's part in labor-management relations is now largely controlled by the terms
of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947. I made my attitude clear on this act in my veto
message to the Congress last June. Nothing has occurred since to change my opinion of this
law. As long as it remains the law of the land, however, I shall carry out my constitutional
duty and administer it.

As we look ahead we can understand the crucial importance of restraint and wisdom in arriving
at new labor-management contracts. Work stoppages would result in a loss of production--a loss
which could bring higher prices for our citizens and could also deny the necessities of life
to the hard-pressed peoples of other lands. It is my sincere hope that the representatives
of labor and of industry will bear in mind that the Nation as a whole has a vital stake in
the success of their bargaining efforts.

If we surmount our current economic difficulties, we can move ahead to a great increase [p.7]
in our national income which will enable all our people to enjoy richer and fuller lives.

All of us must advance together. One-fifth of our families now have average annual incomes
of less than $850. We must see that our gains in national income are made more largely available
to those with low incomes, whose need is greatest. This will benefit us all through providing
a stable foundation of buying power to maintain prosperity.

Business, labor, agriculture, and Government, working together, must develop the policies which
will make possible the realization of the full benefits of our economic system.

Our fifth goal is to achieve world peace based on principles of freedom and justice and the
equality of all nations.

Twice within our generation, world wars have taught us that we cannot isolate ourselves from
the rest of the world.

We have learned that the loss of freedom in any area of the world means a loss of freedom to
ourselves--that the loss of independence by any nation adds directly to the insecurity of the
United States and all free nations.

We have learned that a healthy world economy is essential to world peace--that economic distress
is a disease whose evil effects spread far beyond the boundaries of the afflicted nation.

For these reasons the United States is vigorously following policies designed to achieve a
peaceful and prosperous world.

We are giving, and will continue to give, our full support to the United Nations. While that
organization has encountered unforeseen and unwelcome difficulties, I am confident of its ultimate
success. We are also devoting our efforts toward world economic recovery and the revival of
world trade. These actions are closely related and mutually supporting.

We believe that the United States can be an effective force for world peace only if it is strong.
We look forward to the day when nations will decrease their armaments. Yet so long as there
remains serious opposition to the ideals of a peaceful world, we must maintain strong armed forces.

The passage of the National Security Act by the Congress at its last session was a notable
step in providing for the security of this country. A further step which I consider of even
greater importance is the early provision for universal training. There are many elements in
a balanced national security program, all interrelated and necessary, but universal training
should be the foundation for them all. A favorable decision by the Congress at an early date
is of world importance. I am convinced that such action is vital to the security of this Nation
and to the maintenance of its leadership.

The United States is engaged today in many international activities directed toward the creation
of lasting peaceful relationships among nations.

We have been giving substantial aid to Greece and Turkey to assist those nations in preserving
their integrity against foreign pressures. Had it not been for our aid, their situation today
might well be radically different. The continued integrity of those countries will have a powerful
effect upon other nations in the Middle East and in Europe struggling to maintain their independence
while they repair the damages of war.

The United States has special responsibilities with respect to the countries in which we have
occupation forces: Germany, Austria, Japan, and Korea. Our efforts to reach agreements on peace
settlements for these countries have so far been blocked. But we [p.8] shall continue to exert
our utmost efforts to obtain satisfactory settlements for each of these nations.

Many thousands of displaced persons, still living in camps overseas, should be allowed entry
into the United States. I again urge the Congress to pass suitable legislation at once so that
this Nation may do its share in caring for the homeless and suffering refugees of all faiths.
I believe that the admission of these persons will add to the strength and energy of this Nation.

We are moving toward our goal of world peace in many ways. But the most important efforts which
we are now making are those which support world economic reconstruction. We are seeking to
restore the world trading system which was shattered by the war and to remedy the economic
paralysis which grips many countries.

To restore world trade we have recently taken the lead in bringing about the greatest reduction
of world tariffs that the world has ever seen. The extension of the provisions of the Reciprocal
Trade Agreements Act, which made this achievement possible, is of extreme importance. We must
also go on to support the International Trade Organization, through which we hope to obtain
worldwide agreement on a code of fair conduct in international trade.

Our present major effort toward economic reconstruction is to support the program for recovery
developed by the countries of Europe. In my recent message to the Congress, I outlined the
reasons why it is wise and necessary for the United States to extend this support.

I want to reaffirm my belief in the soundness and the promise of this proposal. When the European
economy is strengthened, the product of its industry will be of benefit to many other areas
of economic distress. The ability of free men to overcome hunger and despair will be a moral
stimulus to the entire world.

We intend to work also with other nations in achieving world economic recovery. We shall continue
our cooperation with the nations of the Western Hemisphere. A special program of assistance
to China, to provide urgent relief needs and to speed reconstruction, will be submitted to
the Congress.

Unfortunately, not all governments share the hope of the people of the United States that economic
reconstruction in many areas of the world can be achieved through cooperative effort among
nations. In spite of these differences we will go forward with our efforts to overcome economic
paralysis.

No nation by itself can carry these programs to success; they depend upon the cooperative and
honest efforts of all participating countries. Yet the leadership is inevitably ours.

I consider it of the highest importance that the Congress should authorize support for the
European recovery program for the period from April 1, 1948, to June 30, 1952, with an initial
amount for the first 15 months of $6.8 billion. I urge the Congress to act promptly on this
vital measure of our foreign policy--on this decisive contribution to world peace.

We are following a sound, constructive, and practical course in carrying out our determination
to achieve peace.

We are fighting poverty, hunger, and suffering.

This leads to peace--not war.

We are building toward a world where all nations, large and small alike, may live free from
the fear of aggression. This leads to peace--not war.

Above all else, we are striving to achieve a concord among the peoples of the world based upon
the dignity of the individual and the brotherhood of man.

This leads to peace--not war.

We can go forward with confidence that we are following sound policies, both at home and with
other nations, which will lead us toward our great goals for economic, social and moral achievement.

As we enter the new year, we must surmount one major problem which affects all our goals. That
is the problem of inflation.

Already inflation in this country is undermining the living standards of millions of families.
Food costs too much. Housing has reached fantastic price levels. Schools and hospitals are
in financial distress. Inflation threatens to bring on disagreement and strife between labor
and management.

Worst of all, inflation holds the threat of another depression, just as we had a depression
after the unstable boom following the First World War.

When I announced last October that the Congress was being called into session, I described
the price increases which had taken place since June 1946. Wholesale prices had increased 40
percent; retail prices had increased 23 percent.

Since October prices have continued to rise. Wholesale prices have gone up at an annual rate
of 18 percent. Retail prices have gone up at an annual rate of 10 percent.

The events which have occurred since I presented my 10-point anti-inflation program to the
Congress in November have made it even clearer that all 10 points are essential.

High prices must not be our means of rationing.

We must deal effectively and at once with the high cost of living.

We must stop the spiral of inflation.

I trust that within the shortest possible time the Congress will make available to the Government
the weapons that are so desperately needed in the fight against inflation.

One of the most powerful anti-inflationary factors in our economy today is the excess of Government
revenues over expenditures.

Government expenditures have been and must continue to be held at the lowest safe levels. Since
V-J day Federal expenditures have been sharply reduced. They have been cut from more than $63
billion in the fiscal year 1946 to less than $38 billion in the present fiscal year. The number
of civilian employees has been cut nearly in half--from 3 3/4 million down to 2 million.

On the other hand, Government revenues must not be reduced. Until inflation has been stopped
there should be no cut in taxes that is not offset by additions at another point in our tax
structure.

Certain adjustments should be made within our existing tax structure that will not affect total
receipts, yet will adjust the tax burden so that those least able to pay will have their burden
lessened by the transfer of a portion of it to those best able to pay.

Many of our families today are suffering hardship because of the high cost of living. At the
same time profits of corporations have reached an all-time record in 1947. Corporate profits
total $17 billion after taxes. This compared with $12.5 billion in 1946, the previous high year.

Because of this extraordinarily high level of profits, corporations can well afford to carry
a larger share of the taxload at this time.

During this period in which the high cost of living is bearing down on so many of our families,
tax adjustments should be made to ease their burden. The low-income group particularly is being
pressed very hard. To this group a tax adjustment would result in a saving that could be used
to buy the necessities of life.

I recommend therefore that, effective January 1, 1948, a cost of living tax credit be extended
to our people consisting of a credit of $40 to each individual taxpayer and an additional credit
of $40 for each dependent. [p.10] Thus the income tax of a man with a wife and two children
would be reduced $160. The credit would be extended to all taxpayers, but it would be particularly
helpful to those in the low-income group.

It is estimated that such a tax credit would reduce Federal revenue by $3.2 billion. This reduction
should be made up by increasing the tax on corporate profits in an amount that will produce
this sum--with appropriate adjustments for small corporations.

This is the proper method of tax relief at this time. It gives relief to those who need it
most without cutting the total tax revenue of the Government.

When the present danger of inflation has passed we should consider tax reduction based upon
a revision of our entire tax structure.

When we have conquered inflation, we shall be in a position to move forward toward our chosen
goals.

As we do so, let us keep ever before us our high purposes. We are determined that every citizen
of this Nation shall have an equal right and an equal opportunity to grow in wisdom and in
stature and to take his place in the control of his Nation's destiny.

We are determined that the productive resources of this Nation shall be used wisely and fully
for the benefit of all.

We are determined that the democratic faith of our people and the strength of our resources
shall contribute their full share to the attainment of enduring peace in the world.

It is our faith in human dignity that underlies these purposes. It is this faith that keeps
us a strong and vital people.

This is a time to remind ourselves of these fundamentals. For today the whole world looks to
us for leadership.

This is the hour to rededicate ourselves to the faith in mankind that makes us strong.

This is the hour to rededicate ourselves to the faith in God that gives us confidence as we
face the challenge of the years ahead.

***

State of the Union Address Harry S. Truman January 5, 1949

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress:

I am happy to report to this 81st Congress that the state of the Union is good. Our Nation
is better able than ever before to meet the needs of the American people, and to give them
their fair chance in the pursuit of happiness. This great Republic is foremost among the nations
of the world in the search for peace.

During the last 16 years, our people have been creating a society which offers new opportunities
for every man to enjoy his share of the good things of life.

In this society, we are conservative about the values and principles which we cherish; but
we are forward-looking in protecting those values and principles and in extending their benefits.
We have rejected the discredited theory that the fortunes of the Nation should be in the hands
of a privileged few. We have abandoned the "trickledown" concept of national prosperity. Instead,
we believe that our economic system should rest on a democratic foundation and that wealth
should be created for the benefit of all.

The recent election shows that the people of the United States are in favor of this kind of
society and want to go on improving it.

The American people have decided that poverty is just as wasteful and just as unnecessary as
preventable disease. We have pledged our common resources to help one another in the hazards
and struggles of individual life. We believe that no unfair prejudice or artificial distinction
should bar any citizen of the United States of America from an education, or from good health,
or from a job that he is capable of performing.

The attainment of this kind of society demands the best efforts of every citizen in every walk
of life, and it imposes increasing responsibilities on the Government.

The Government must work with industry, labor, and the farmers in keeping our economy running
at full speed. The Government must see that every American has a chance to obtain his fair
share of our increasing abundance. These responsibilities go hand in hand.

We cannot maintain prosperity unless we have a fair distribution of opportunity and a widespread
consumption of the products of our factories and farms.

Our Government has undertaken to meet these responsibilities.

We have made tremendous public investments in highways, hydroelectric power projects, soil
conservation, and reclamation. We have established a system of social security. We have enacted
laws protecting the rights and the welfare of our working people and the income of our farmers.
These Federal policies have paid for themselves many times over. They have strengthened the
material foundations of our democratic ideals. Without them, our present prosperity would be
impossible.

Reinforced by these policies, our private enterprise system has reached new heights of production.
Since the boom year of 1929, while our population has increased by only 20 percent, our agricultural
production has increased by 45 percent, and our industrial production has increased by 75 percent.
We are turning out far more goods and more wealth per worker than we have ever done before.

This progress has confounded the gloomy prophets--at home and abroad who predicted the downfall
of American capitalism. The people of the United States, going their own way, confident in
their own powers, have achieved the greatest prosperity the world has even seen.

But, great as our progress has been, we still have a long way to go.

As we look around the country, many of our shortcomings stand out in bold relief.

We are suffering from excessively high prices.

Our production is still not large enough to satisfy our demands.

Our minimum wages are far too low.

Small business is losing ground to growing monopoly.

Our farmers still face an uncertain future. And too many of them lack the benefits of our modern
civilization.

Some of our natural resources are still being wasted.

We are acutely short of electric power, although the means for developing such power are abundant.

Five million families are still living in slums and firetraps. Three million families share
their homes with others.

Our health is far behind the progress of medical science. Proper medical care is so expensive
that it is out of the reach of the great majority of our citizens.

Our schools, in many localities, are utterly inadequate.

Our democratic ideals are often thwarted by prejudice and intolerance.

Each of these shortcomings is also an opportunity-an opportunity for the Congress and the President
to work for the good of the people.

Our first great opportunity is to protect our economy against the evils of "boom and bust."

This objective cannot be attained by government alone. Indeed, the greater part of the task
must be performed by individual efforts under our system of free enterprise. We can keep our
present prosperity, and increase it, only if free enterprise and free government work together
to that end.

We cannot afford to float along ceaselessly on a postwar boom until it collapses. It is not
enough merely to prepare to weather a recession if it comes. Instead, government and business
must work together constantly to achieve more and more jobs and more and more production--which
mean more and more prosperity for all the people.

The business cycle is man-made; and men of good will, working together, can smooth it out.

So far as business is concerned, it should plan for steady, vigorous expansion--seeking always
to increase its output, lower its prices, and avoid the vices of monopoly and restriction.
So long as business does this, it will be contributing to continued prosperity, and it will
have the help and encouragement of the Government.

The Employment Act of 1946 pledges the Government to use all its resources to promote maximum
employment, production, and purchasing power. This means that the Government is firmly committed
to protect business and the people against the dangers of recession and against the evils of
inflation. This means that the Government must adapt its plans and policies to meet changing
circumstances.

At the present time, our prosperity is threatened by inflationary pressures at a number of
critical points in our economy. And the Government must be in a position to take effective
action at these danger spots. To that end, I recommend that the Congress enact legislation
for the following purposes:

First, to continue the power to control consumer credit and enlarge the power to control bank
credit.

Second, to grant authority to regulate speculation on the commodity exchanges.

Third, to continue export control authority and to provide adequate machinery for its enforcement.

Fourth, to continue the priorities and allocation authority in the field of transportation.

Fifth, to authorize priorities and allocations for key materials in short supply.

Sixth, to extend and strengthen rent control.

Seventh, to provide standby authority to impose price ceilings for scarce commodities which
basically affect essential industrial production or the cost of living, and to limit unjustified
wage adjustments which would force a break in an established price ceiling.

Eighth, to authorize an immediate study of the adequacy of production facilities for materials
in critically short supply, such as steel; and, if found necessary, to authorize Government
loans for the expansion of production facilities to relieve such shortages, and to authorize
the construction of such facilities directly, if action by private industry fails to meet our
needs.

The Economic Report, which I shall submit to the Congress shortly, will discuss in detail the
economic background for these recommendations.

One of the most important factors in maintaining prosperity is the Government's fiscal policy.
At this time, it is essential not only that the Federal budget be balanced, but also that there
be a substantial surplus to reduce inflationary pressures, and to permit a sizable reduction
in the national debt, which now stands at $252 billion. I recommend, therefore, that the Congress
enact new tax legislation to bring in an additional $4 billion of Government revenue. This
should come principally from additional corporate taxes. A portion should come from revised
estate and gift taxes. Consideration should be given to raising personal income rates in the
middle and upper brackets.

If we want to keep our economy running in high gear, we must be sure that every group has the
incentive to make its full contribution to the national welfare. At present, the working men
and women of the Nation are unfairly discriminated against by a statute that abridges their
rights, curtails their constructive efforts, and hampers our system of free collective bargaining.
That statute is the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, sometimes called the Taft-Hartley Act.

That act should be repealed!

The Wagner Act should be reenacted. However, certain improvements, which I recommended to the
Congress 2 years ago, are needed. Jurisdictional strikes and unjustified secondary boycotts
should be prohibited. The use of economic force to decide issues arising out of the interpretation
of existing contracts should be prevented. Without endangering our democratic freedoms, means
should be provided for setting up machinery for preventing strikes in vital industries which
affect the public interest.

The Department of Labor should be rebuilt and strengthened and those units properly belonging
within that department should be placed in it.

The health of our economy and its maintenance at high levels further require that the minimum
wage fixed by law should be raised to at least 75 cents an hour.

If our free enterprise economy is to be strong and healthy, we must reinvigorate the forces
of competition. We must assure small business the freedom and opportunity to grow and prosper.
To this purpose, we should strengthen our antitrust laws by closing those loopholes that permit
monopolistic mergers and consolidations.

Our national farm program should be improved-not only in the interest of the farmers, but for
the lasting prosperity of the whole Nation. Our goals should be abundant farm production and
parity income for agriculture. Standards of living on the farm should be just as good as anywhere
else in the country.

Farm price supports are an essential part of our program to achieve these ends. Price supports
should be used to prevent farm price declines which are out of line with general price levels,
to facilitate adjustments in production to consumer demands, and to promote good land use.
Our price support legislation must be adapted to these objectives. The authority of the Commodity
Credit Corporation to provide adequate storage space for crops should be restored.

Our program for farm prosperity should also seek to expand the domestic market for agricultural
products, particularly among low-income groups, and to increase and stabilize foreign markets.

We should give special attention to extending modern conveniences and services to our farms.
Rural electrification should be pushed forward. And in considering legislation relating to
housing, education, health, and social security, special attention should be given to rural
problems.

Our growing population and the expansion of our economy depend upon the wise management of
our land, water, forest, and mineral wealth. In our present dynamic economy, the task of conservation
is not to lockup our resources but to develop and improve them. Failure, today, to make the
investments which are necessary to support our progress in the future would be false economy.

We must push forward the development of our rivers for power, irrigation, navigation, and flood
control. We should apply the lessons of our Tennessee Valley experience to our other great
river basins.

I again recommend action be taken by the Congress to approve the St. Lawrence Seaway and Power
project. This is about the fifth time I have recommended it.

We must adopt a program for the planned use of the petroleum reserves under the sea, which
are--and must remain--vested in the Federal Government. We must extend our programs of soil
conservation. We must place our forests on a sustained yield basis, and encourage the development
of new sources of vital minerals.

In all this we must make sure that the benefits of these public undertakings are directly available
to the people. Public power should be carried to consuming areas by public transmission lines
where necessary to provide electricity at the lowest possible rates. Irrigation waters should
serve family farms and not land speculators.

The Government has still other opportunities--to help raise the standard of living of our citizens.
These opportunities lie in the fields of social security, health, education, housing, and civil
rights.

The present coverage of the social security laws is altogether inadequate; the benefit payments
are too low. One-third of our workers are not covered. Those who receive old-age and survivors
insurance benefits receive an average payment of only $25 a month. Many others who cannot work
because they are physically disabled are left to the mercy of charity. We should expand our
social security program, both as to the size of the benefits and the extent of coverage, against
the economic hazards due to unemployment, old age, sickness, and disability.

We must spare no effort to raise the general level of health in this country. In a nation as
rich as ours, it is a shocking fact that tens of millions lack adequate medical care. We are
short of doctors, hospitals, nurses. We must remedy these shortages. Moreover, we need--and
we must have without further delay--a system of prepaid medical insurance which will enable
every American to afford good medical care.

It is equally shocking that millions of our children are not receiving a good education. Millions
of them are in overcrowded, obsolete buildings. We are short of teachers, because teachers'
salaries are too low to attract new teachers, or to hold the ones we have. All these school
problems will become much more acute as a result of the tremendous increase in the enrollment
in our elementary schools in the next few years. I cannot repeat too strongly my desire for
prompt Federal financial aid to the States to help them operate and maintain their school systems.

The governmental agency which now administers the programs of health, education, and social
security should be given full departmental status.

The housing shortage continues to be acute. As an immediate step, the Congress should enact
the provisions for low-rent public housing, slum clearance, farm housing, and housing research
which I have repeatedly recommended. The number of low-rent public housing units provided for
in the legislation should be increased to 1 million units in the next 7 years. Even this number
of units will not begin to meet our need for new housing.

Most of the houses we need will have to be built by private enterprise, without public subsidy.
By producing too few rental units and too large a proportion of high-priced houses, the building
industry is rapidly pricing itself out of the market. Building costs must be lowered.

The Government is now engaged in a campaign to induce all segments of the building industry
to concentrate on the production of lower priced housing. Additional legislation to encourage
such housing will be submitted.

The authority which I have requested, to allocate materials in short supply and to impose price
ceilings on such materials, could be used, if found necessary, to channel more materials into
homes large enough for family life at prices which wage earners can afford.

The driving force behind our progress is our faith in our democratic institutions. That faith
is embodied in the promise of equal rights and equal opportunities which the founders of our
Republic proclaimed to their countrymen and to the whole world.

The fulfillment of this promise is among the highest purposes of government. The civil rights
proposals I made to the 80th Congress, I now repeat to the 81st Congress. They should be enacted
in order that the Federal Government may assume the leadership and discharge the obligations
dearly placed upon it by the Constitution.

I stand squarely behind those proposals.

Our domestic programs are the foundation of our foreign policy. The world today looks to us
for leadership because we have so largely realized, within our borders, those benefits of democratic
government for which most of the peoples of the world are yearning.

We are following a foreign policy which is the outward expression of the democratic faith we
profess. We are doing what we can to encourage free states and free peoples throughout the
world, to aid the suffering and afflicted in foreign lands, and to strengthen democratic nations
against aggression.

The heart of our foreign policy is peace. We are supporting a world organization to keep peace
and a world economic policy to create prosperity for mankind. Our guiding star is the principle
of international cooperation. To this concept we have made a national commitment as profound
as anything in history.

To it we have pledged our resources and our honor.

Until a system of world security is established upon which we can safely rely, we cannot escape
the burden of creating and maintaining armed forces sufficient to deter aggression. We have
made great progress in the last year in the effective organization of our Armed Forces, but
further improvements in our national security legislation are necessary. Universal training
is essential to the security of the United States.

During the course of this session I shall have occasion to ask the Congress to consider several
measures in the field of foreign policy. At this time, I recommend that we restore the Reciprocal
Trade Agreements Act to full effectiveness, and extend it for 3 years. We should also open
our doors to displaced persons without unfair discrimination.

It should be clear by now to all citizens that we are not seeking to freeze the status quo.
We have no intention of preserving the injustices of the past. We welcome the constructive
efforts being made by many nations to achieve a better life for their citizens. In the European
recovery program, in our good-neighbor policy and in the United Nations, we have begun to batter
down those national walls which block the economic growth and the social advancement of the
peoples of the world.

We believe that if we hold resolutely to this course, the principle of international cooperation
will eventually command the approval even of those nations which are now seeking to weaken
or subvert it.

We stand at the opening of an era which can mean either great achievement or terrible catastrophe
for ourselves and for all mankind.

The strength of our Nation must continue to be used in the interest of all our people rather
than a privileged few. It must continue to be used unselfishly in the struggle for world peace
and the betterment of mankind the world over.

This is the task before us.

It is not an easy one. It has many complications, and there will be strong opposition from
selfish interests.

I hope for cooperation from farmers, from labor, and from business. Every segment of our population
and every individual has a right to expect from our Government a fair deal.

In 1945, when I came down before the Congress for the first time on April 16, I quoted to you
King Solomon's prayer that he wanted wisdom and the ability to govern his people as they should
be governed. I explained to you at that time that the task before me was one of the greatest
in the history of the world, and that it was necessary to have the complete cooperation of
the Congress and the people of the United States.

Well now, we are taking a new start with the same situation. It is absolutely essential that
your President have the complete cooperation of the Congress to carry out the great work that
must be done to keep the peace in this world, and to keep this country prosperous.

The people of this great country have a right to expect that the Congress and the President
will work in closest cooperation with one objective--the welfare of the people of this Nation
as a whole.

In the months ahead I know that I shall be able to cooperate with this Congress.

Now, I am confident that the Divine Power which has guided us to this time of fateful responsibility
and glorious opportunity will not desert us now.

With that help from Almighty God which we have humbly acknowledged at every turning point in
our national life, we shall be able to perform the great tasks which He now sets before us.

***

State of the Union Address Harry S. Truman January 4, 1950

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress:

A year ago I reported to this Congress that the state of the Union was good. I am happy to
be able to report to you today that the state of the Union continues to be good. Our Republic
continues to increase in the enjoyment of freedom within its borders, and to offer strength
and encouragement to all those who love freedom throughout the world.

During the past year we have made notable progress in strengthening the foundations of peace
and freedom, abroad and at home.

We have taken important steps in securing the North Atlantic community against aggression.
We have continued our successful support of European recovery. We have returned to our established
policy of expanding international trade through reciprocal agreement. We have strengthened
our support of the United Nations.

While great problems still confront us, the greatest danger has receded--the possibility which
faced us 3 years ago that most of Europe and the Mediterranean area might collapse under totalitarian
pressure. Today, the free peoples of the world have new vigor and new hope for the cause of peace.

In our domestic affairs, we have made notable advances toward broader opportunity and a better
life for all our citizens.

We have met and reversed the first significant downturn in economic activity since the war.
In accomplishing this, Government programs for maintaining employment and purchasing power
have been of tremendous benefit. As the result of these programs, and the wisdom and good judgment
of our businessmen and workers, major readjustments have been made without widespread suffering.

During the past year, we have also made a good start in providing housing for low-income groups;
we have raised minimum wages; we have gone forward with the development of our natural resources;
we have given a greater assurance of stability to the farmer; and we have improved the organization
and efficiency of our Government.

Today, by the grace of God, we stand a free and prosperous nation with greater possibilities
for the future than any people ever had before in the history of the world.

We are now, in this year of 1950, nearing the midpoint of the 20th century.

The first half of this century will be known as the most turbulent and eventful period in recorded
history. The swift pace of events promises to make the next 50 years decisive in the history
of man on this planet.

The scientific and industrial revolution which began two centuries ago has, in the last 50
years, caught up the peoples of the globe in a common destiny. Two world-shattering wars have
proved that no corner of the earth can be isolated from the affairs of mankind.

The human race has reached a turning point. Man has opened the secrets of nature and mastered
new powers. If he uses them wisely, he can reach new heights of civilization. If he uses them
foolishly, they may destroy him.

Man must create the moral and legal framework for the world which will insure that his new
powers are used for good and not for evil. In shaping the outcome, the people of the United
States will play a leading role.

Among all the great changes that have occurred in the last 50 years, none is more important
than the change in the position of the United States in world affairs. Fifty years ago we were
a country devoted largely to our own internal affairs. Our industry was growing, and we had
new interests in the Far East and in the Caribbean, but we were primarily concerned with the
development of vast areas of our own continental territory.

Today, our population has doubled. Our national production has risen from about $50 billion,
in terms of today's prices, to the staggering figure of $255 billion a year. We have a more
productive economic system and a greater industrial potential than any other nation on the
globe. Our standard of living is an inspiration for all other peoples. Even the slightest changes
in our economic and social life have their effect on other countries all around the world.

Our tremendous strength has brought with it tremendous responsibilities. We have moved from
the outer edge to the center of world affairs. Other nations look to us for a wise exercise
of our economic and military strength, and for vigorous support of the ideals of representative
government and a free society. We will not fail them.

Our objective in the world is peace. Our country has joined with others in the task of achieving
peace. We know now that this is not an easy task, or a short one. But we are determined to
see it through. Both of our great political parties are committed to working together--and
I am sure they will continue to work together--to achieve this end. We are prepared to devote
our energy and our resources to this task, because we know that our own security and the future
of mankind are at stake.

Right here, I want to say that no one appreciates more than I the bipartisan cooperation in
foreign affairs which has been enjoyed by this administration.

Our success in working with other nations to achieve peace depends largely on what we do at
home. We must preserve our national strength. Strength is not simply a matter of arms and force.
It is a matter of economic growth, and social health, and vigorous institutions, public and
private. We can achieve peace only if we maintain our productive energy, our democratic institutions,
and our firm belief in individual freedom.

Our surest guide in the days that lie ahead will be the spirit in which this great Republic
was rounded. We must make our decisions in the conviction that all men are created equal, that
they are equally entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and that the duty
of government is to serve these ends.

This country of ours has experienced many blessings, but none greater than its dedication to
these principles. At every point in our history, these ideals have served to correct our failures
and shortcomings, to spur us on to greater efforts, and to keep clearly before us the primary
purpose of our existence as a nation. They have enshrined for us, a principle of government,
the moral imperative to do justice, and the divine command to men to love one another.

These principles give meaning to all that we do.

In foreign policy, they mean that we can never be tolerant of oppression or tyranny. They mean
that we must throw our weight on the side of greater freedom and a better life for all peoples.
These principles confirm us in carrying out the specific programs for peace which we have already
begun.

We shall continue to give our wholehearted support to the United Nations. We believe that this
organization can ultimately provide the framework of international law and morality without
which mankind cannot survive. It has already set up new standards for the conduct of nations
in the Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention on Genocide. It is moving ahead to give
meaning to the concept of world brotherhood through a wide variety of cultural, economic, and
technical activities.

The events of the past year again showed the value of the United Nations in bringing about
the peaceful adjustment of tense international controversies. In Indonesia and in Palestine
the efforts of the United Nations have put a stop to bloodshed and paved the way to peaceful
settlements.

We are working toward the time when the United Nations will control weapons of mass destruction
and will have the forces to preserve international law and order. While the world remains unsettled,
however, and as long as our own security and the security of the free world require, we will
maintain a strong and well-balanced defense organization. The Selective Service System is an
essential part of our defense plans, and it must be continued.

Under the principles of the United Nations Charter we must continue to share in the common
defense of free nations against aggression. At the last session this Congress laid the basis
for this joint effort. We now must put into effect the common defense plans that are being
worked out.

We shall continue our efforts for world economic recovery, because world prosperity is the
only sure foundation of a permanent peace.

As an immediate means to this end we must continue our support of the European recovery program.
This program has achieved great success in the first 2 years of its operation, but it has not
yet been completed. If we were to stop this program now, or cripple it, just because it is
succeeding, we should be doing exactly what the enemies of democracy want us to do. We should
be just as foolish as a man who, for reasons of false economy, failed to put a roof on his
house after building the foundation and the walls.

World prosperity also requires that we do all we can to expand world trade. As a major step
in this direction we should promptly join the International Trade Organization. The purpose
of this organization, which the United States has been foremost in creating, is to establish
a code of fair practice, and an international authority for adjusting differences in international
commercial relations. It is an effort to prevent the kind of anarchy and irresponsibility in
world trade which did so much to bring about the world depression of the 1930's. An expanding
world economy requires the improvement of living standards and the development of resources
in areas where human poverty and misery now prevail. Without such improvement the recovery
of Europe and the future of our own economy will not be secure. I urge that the Congress adopt
the legislation now before it to provide for increasing the flow of technical assistance and
capital investment in underdeveloped regions.

It is more essential now than ever, if the ideals of freedom and representative government
are to prevail in these areas, and particularly in the Far East, that their peoples experience,
in their own lives, the benefits of scientific and economic advances. This program will require
the movement of large amounts of capital from the industrial nations, and particularly from
the United States, to productive uses in the underdeveloped areas of the world. Recent world
events make prompt action imperative.

This program is in the interest of all peoples-and has nothing in common with either the old
imperialism of the last century or the new imperialism of the Communists.

Our aim for a peaceful, democratic world of free peoples will be achieved in the long run,
not by force of arms, but by an appeal to the minds and hearts of men. If the peace policy
of the democratic nations is to be successful, they must demonstrate that the benefits of their
way of life can be increased and extended to all nations and all races.

In the world today we are confronted with the danger that the rising demand of people everywhere
for freedom and a better life may be corrupted and betrayed by the false promises of communism.
In its ruthless struggle for power, communism seizes upon our imperfections, and takes advantage
of the delays and setbacks which the democratic nations experience in their effort to secure
a better life for their citizens. This challenge to us is more than a military challenge. It
is a challenge to the honesty of our profession of the democratic faith; it is a challenge
to the efficiency and stability of our economic system; it is a challenge to the willingness
to work with other peoples for world peace and for world prosperity.

For my part I welcome that challenge. I believe that our country, at this crucial point in
world history, will meet that challenge successfully. I believe that, in cooperation with the
other free nations of the world, we shall extend the full benefits of the democratic way of
life to millions who do not now enjoy them, and preserve mankind from dictatorship and tyranny. 

Among my Oenotheras one of the eldest of the recent productions is the O. brevistylis or short [281]
styled species which was seen for the first time in the year 1889. The third example offered is
a hairless variety of the evening campion, Lychnis vespertina, found the same year, which hitherto had
not been observed.

For these three cases I have made the crosses of the variety with the parent-species, and in
each case the hybrid was like the species, and not like the variety. Nor was it intermediate.
Here it is proved that the older character dominates the younger one.

In most cases of wild, and of garden-varieties, the relation between them and the parent-species rests
upon comparative evidence. Often the variety is known to be younger, in other cases it may
be only of local occurrence, but ordinarily the historic facts about its origin have never been
known or have long since been forgotten.

The easiest and most widely known varietal crosses are those between
varieties with white flowers and the red- or blue-flowered species.

Here the color prevails in the hybrid over the lack of pigment, and as a rule the hybrid is as
deeply tinted as the species itself, and cannot be distinguished from it, without an investigation
of its hereditary qualities. Instances may be cited of the white varieties of the snapdragon, of
the red clover, the long-spurred violet (Viola [282] cornuta) the
sea-shore aster (Aster Tripolium), corn-rose (Agrostemma Githago),
the Sweet William (Silene Armeria), and many garden flowers, as for
instance, the Clarkia pulchella, the Polemonium coeruleum, the Veronica
longifolia, the gloxinias and others.

If the red hue is combined with a yellow ground-color in the species, the variety will be yellow
and the hybrid will have the red and yellow mixture of the species
as for instance, in the genus Geum.

The toad-flax has an orange-colored palate, and a variety occurs in which the palate is of the
same yellow tinge as the remaining parts of the corolla. The hybrid between them is in all respects
like the parent-species.

Other instances could be given. In berries the same rule prevails. The black nightshade has a
variety with yellow berries, and the black color returns in the hybrid.

Even the foliage of some garden-plants may afford instances, as for instance, the purplish amaranth
(Amaranthus caudatus). It has a green variety, but the hybrid between the two has the red
foliage of the species.

Special marks in leaves and in flowers follow the same rule. Some varieties of the opium poppy
have large black patches at the basal end of the petals, while in others this pattern is entirely
white. In crossing two such varieties, [283] for instance, the dark "Mephisto" with the white-hearted
"Danebrog," the hybrid shows the active character of the dark pattern.

Hairy species crossed with their smooth varieties produce hairy hybrids, as in some wheats,
in the campion (Lychnis), in Biscutella and others. The same holds good for the crosses between spiny species
and their unarmed derivatives, as in the thorn-apple, the corn-crowfoot (Ranunculus arvensis)
and others.

Lack of starch in seeds is observed in some varieties of corn and of peas. When such derivatives
are crossed with ordinary starch-producing types, the starch prevails in the hybrid.

It would take too much time to give further examples. But there is still one point which should
be insisted upon. It is not the systematic relation of the two parents of a cross, that is decisive, but
only the occurrence of the same quality, in the one in an active, and in the other in an inactive
condition.

Hence, whenever this relation occurs between the parents of a cross, the active quality prevails
in the hybrid, even when the parents differ from each other in other respects so as to be distinguished
as systematic species. The white and red campions give a red hybrid, the black and pale henbane
(Hyoscyamus niger and H. pallidus) give a hybrid [284] with the purple
veins and center in the corolla of the former, the white and blue
thornapple produce a blue hybrid, and so on.

Instances of this sort are common in cultivated plants.

Having given this long list of examples of the rule of the dominancy of the active character
over the opposite dormant unit, the question naturally arises as to how the antagonistic units
are combined in the hybrid. This question is of paramount importance in the consideration
of the offspring of the hybrids. But before taking it up it is as well to learn the real signification
of recessiveness in the hybrids themselves.

Recessive characters are shown by those rare cases, in which hybrids revert to the varietal parent
in the vegetative way. In other words by bud-variations or sports, analogous to the splitting
of Adam's laburnum into its parents, by means of bud-variation already described. But here the
wide range of differentiating characters of the parents of this most curious hybrid fail. The illustrative
examples are extremely simple, and are limited to the active and
inactive condition of only one quality.

An instance is given by the long-leaved veronica (Veronica longifolia),
which has bluish flowers in long spikes.

The hybrid between [285] this species and its white variety has a blue corolla. But occasionally it
produces some purely white flowers, showing its power of separating the parental heritages,
combined in its internal structures. This reversion is not common, but in thousands of flowering
spikes one may expect to find at least one of them.

Sometimes it is a whole stem springing from the underground system and bearing only white flowers
on all its spikes. In other instances it is only a side branch which reverts and forms white
flowers on a stem, the other spikes of which remain bluish.

Sometimes a spike even differentiates longitudinally, bearing on one side blue and on the other
white corollas, and the white stripe running over the spike may be seen to be long and large,
or narrow and short in various degrees. In such cases it is evident that the heritages of the parents
remain uninfluenced by each other during the whole life of the hybrid,
working side by side, but the active element always prevails over
its latent opponent which is ready to break free whenever an opportunity
is offered.

It is now generally assumed that this incomplete mixture of the parental qualities in a hybrid,
this uncertain and limited combination is the true cause of the many
deviations, exhibited by varietal hybrids when compared with their
[286] parents.

Partial departures are rare in the hybrids themselves, but in their offspring the divergence
becomes the rule.

Segregation seems to be a very difficult process in the vegetative way, but it must be very easy
in sexual reproduction, indeed so easy as to show itself in nearly
every single instance.

Leaving this first generation, the original hybrids, we now come to a discussion of their offspring.
Hybrids should be fertilized either by their own pollen, or by that
of other individuals born from the same cross.

Only in this case can the offspring be considered as a means of arriving at a decision as to the internal
nature of the hybrids themselves. Breeders generally prefer to fertilize hybrids with the pollen
of their parents. But this operation is to be considered as a new cross, and consequently is wholly
excluded from our present discussion. Hence it follows that a clear insight into the heredity
of hybrids may be expected only from scientific experiments.

Furthermore some of the diversity observed as a result of ordinary crosses, may be due to the instability
of the parents themselves or at least of one of them, since breeders ordinarily choose for their
crosses some already very variable strain. Combining such a strain with the desirable qualities
of some newly imported species, a new strain may [287] result, having
the new attribute in addition to all the variability of the old types.

In scientific experiments made for the purpose of investigating the general laws of hybridity, such
complex cases are therefore to be wholly excluded. The hereditary purity of the parents must
be considered as one of the first conditions of success.

Moreover the progeny must be numerous, since neither constancy, nor
the exact proportions in the case of instability, can be determined
with a small lot of plants.

Finally, and in order to come to a definite choice of research material, we should keep in mind
that the chief object is to ascertain the relation of the offspring
to their parents.

Now in nearly all cases the seeds are separated from the fruits and from one another, before
it becomes possible to judge of their qualities. One may open a fruit and count the seeds, but
ordinarily nothing is noted as to their characters.

In this respect no other plant equals the corn or maize, as the kernels remain together on the spike,
and as it has more than one variety characterized by the color, or constitution, or other qualities of the grains.
A corn-grain, however, is not a seed, but a fruit containing a seed.

Hence the outer parts pertain to the parent plant and only the innermost ones to the [288] seedling
and therefore to the following generation. Fruit-characters thus do not offer the qualities
we need, only the qualities resulting from fertilizations are characteristic
of the new generation.

Such attributes are afforded in some cases by the color, in others by the chemical constitution.

We
will choose the latter, and take the sugarcorn in comparison with the ordinary or starch producing
forms for our starting point. Both sugar- and starch-corns have smooth fruits when ripening.
No difference is to be seen in the young ripe spikes. Only the taste, or a direct chemical analysis
might reveal the dissimilarity. But as soon as the spikes are dried, a diversity is apparent.
The starchy grains remain smooth, but the sugary kernels lose so much water that they become
wrinkled. The former becomes opaque, the latter more or less transparent.

Every single kernel may instantly be recognized as belonging to either of the types in question,
even if but a single grain of the opposite quality might be met with on a spike. Kernels can
be counted on the spike, and since ordinary spikes may bear from 300-500 grains and often more,
the numerical relation of the different types may be deduced with
great accuracy.

Coming now to our experiment, both starchy [289] and sugary varieties
are in this respect wholly constant, when cultivated separately.

No change is to be seen in the spikes. Furthermore it is very easy to make the crosses. The best
way is to cultivate both types in alternate rows and to cut off the staminate panicles a few
days before they open their first flowers. If this operation is done on all the individuals
of one variety, sparing all the panicles of the other, it is manifest that all the plants will
become fertilized by the latter, and hence that the castrated plants will only bear hybrid
seeds.

The experiment may be made in two ways; by castrating the sugary or the starchy variety. In
both cases the hybrid kernels are the same. As to their composition they repeat the active character
of the starchy variety. The sugar is only accumulated as a result of an incapacity of changing it into
starch, and the lack of this capacity is to be considered as a retrogressive
varietal mark.

The starch-producing unit character, which is active in the ordinary sorts of corns, is therefore
latent in sugar-corn.

In order to obtain the second generation, the hybrid grains are sown under ordinary conditions,
but sufficiently distant from any other variety of corn to insure
pure fertilization.

The several individuals may be left to pollinate [290] each other, or they may be artificially pollinated
with their own pollen.

The outcome of the experiments is shown by the spikes, as soon as they dry. Each spike bears two
sorts of kernels irregularly dispersed over its surface.

In this point all the spikes are alike. On each of them one may see on the first inspection
that the majority of the kernels are starch-containing seeds, while a minor part becomes wrinkled
and transparent according to the rule for sugary seeds. This fact shows at once that the hybrid
race is not stable, but has differentiated the parental characters, bringing those of the
varietal parent to perfect purity and isolation. Whether the same holds good for the starchy parent,
it is impossible to judge from the inspection of the spikes, since it has been seen in the first
generation that the hybrid kernels are not visibly distinguished from those of the pure starch-producing
grains.

It is very easy to count the number of both sorts of grains in the spike of such a hybrid. In
doing so we find, that the proportion is nearly the same on all the
spikes, and only slight variations would be found in hundreds of them.

One-fourth of the seeds are wrinkled and three-fourths are always smooth. The number may vary
in single instances and be a little more or a little less than 25%, ranging, for [291] instance, from
20 to 27%, but as a rule, the average is found nearly equal to 25%.

The sugary kernels, when separated from the hybrid spikes and sown
separately, give rise to pure sugary race, in no degree inferior in
purity to the original variety.

But the starchy kernels are of different types, some of them being internally like the hybrids
of the first generation and others like the original parent. To decide between these two possibilities,
it is necessary to examine their progeny.

For the study of this third hybrid generation we will now take another example, the opium poppies. They
usually have a dark center in the flowers, the inferior parts of
the four petals being stained a deep purple, or often nearly black.

Many varieties exhibit this mark as a large black cross in the center of the flower. In other varieties
the pigment is wanting, the cross being of a pure white.

Obviously it is only reduced to a latent condition, as in so many other cases of loss of color,
since it reappears in a hybrid with the parent-species.

For my crosses I have taken the dark-centered "Mephisto" and the "Danebrog," or Danish flag,
with a white cross on a red field. The second year the hybrids were all true to the type of "Mephisto."
From the seeds of each artificially self-fertilized capsule, one-fourth
(22.5%) [292] in each instance reverted to the varietal mark of the
white cross, and three-fourths (77.5%) retained the dark heart.

Once more the flowers were self-pollinated and the visits of insects excluded. The recessives
now gave only recessives, and hence we may conclude that the varietal marks had returned to stability.
The dark hearted or dominants behaved in two different ways. Some of them remained true to their
type, all their offspring being dark-hearted. Evidently they had returned to the parent with
the active mark, and had reassumed this type as purely as the recessives had reached theirs.
But others kept true to the hybrid character of the former generation, repeating in their
progeny exactly the same mixture as their parents, the hybrids of
the first generation, had given.

This third generation therefore gives evidence, that the second though apparently showing only
two types, really consists of three different groups. Two of them have reassumed the stability
of their original grandparents, and the third has retained the instability of the hybrid parents.

The
question now arises as to the numerical relation of these groups.

Our experiments gave the following results: [293]

Cross 1. Generation 2. Generation 3. Generation

Mephisto 4- 100% Mephisto | / | / | 77.5 % Dom. | / \ > --All Mephisto \ | \ 9- all hybrids
with 83-68% | 22.5 % Rec. dominants and 17-32% | recessives. 100% Danebrog. Danebrog

Examining these figures we find one-fourth of constant recessives, as has already been said,
further one-fourth of constant dominants, and the rest or one half
as unstable hybrids.

Both of the pure groups have therefore reappeared [293] in the same numbers. Calling A the specimens
with the pure active mark, L those with the latent mark, and H the hybrids, these proportions
may be expressed as follows:

1A+2H+1L.

This simple law for the constitution of the second generation of varietal
hybrids with a single differentiating mark in their parents is called
the law of Mendel.

Mendel published it in 1865, but his paper remained nearly unknown
to scientific hybridists.

It is only of late years that it has assumed a high place in scientific
literature, and attained the first rank as an investigation on fundamental
questions of heredity.

[294] Read in the light of modern ideas on unit characters it is
now one of the most important works on heredity and has already widespread
and abiding influence on the philosophy of hybridism in general.

But from its very nature and from the choice of the material made by Mendel, it is restricted
to balanced or varietal crosses.

It assumes pairs of characters and calls the active unit of the pair dominant, and the latent
recessive, without further investigations of the question of latency.

It was worked out by Mendel for a large group of varieties of peas, but it holds good, with
only apparent exceptions, for a wide range of cases of crosses of varietal characters. Recently
many instances have been tested, and even in many cases third and
later generations have been counted, and whenever the evidence was
complete enough to be trusted, Mendel's prophecy has been found to
be right.

According to this law of Mendel's the pairs of antagonistic characters in the hybrid split up
in their progeny, some individuals reverting to the pure parental
types, some crossing with each other anew, and so giving rise to a
new generation of hybrids.

Mendel has given a very suggestive and simple explanation of his
formula. Putting this in the terminology of to-day, and limiting it
to the occurrence of only [295] one differential unit in the parents,
we may give it in the following manner. In fertilization, the characters
of both parents are not uniformly mixed, but remain separated though
most intimately combined in the hybrid throughout life. They are so
combined as to work together nearly always, and to have nearly equal
influence on all the processes of the whole individual evolution.
But when the time arrives to produce progeny, or rather to produce
the sexual cells through the combination of which the offspring arises,
the two parental characters leave each other, and enter separately
into the sexual cells. From this it may be seen that one-half of the
pollen-cells will have the quality of one parent, and the other the
quality of the other. And the same holds good for [296] the egg-cells.
Obviously the qualities lie latent in the pollen and in the egg, but
ready to be evolved after fertilization has taken place.

Granting
these premises, we may now ask as to the results of the fertilization
of hybrids, when this is brought about by their own pollen. We assume
that numerous pollen grains fertilize numerous egg cells.

We will succeed, but we must all do our part. We must all act together as citizens of this
great Republic.

As we meet here today, American soldiers are fighting a bitter campaign in Korea. We pay tribute
to their courage, devotion, and gallantry.

Our men are fighting, alongside their United Nations allies, because they know, as we do, that
the aggression in Korea is part of the attempt of the Russian Communist dictatorship to take
over the world, step by step.

Our men are fighting a long way from home, but they are fighting for our lives and our liberties.
They are fighting to protect our right to meet here today--our right to govern ourselves as
a free nation.

The threat of world conquest by Soviet Russia endangers our liberty and endangers the kind
of world in which the free spirit of man can survive. This threat is aimed at all peoples who
strive to win or defend their own freedom and national independence.

Indeed, the state of our Nation is in great part the state of our friends and allies throughout
the world. The gun that points at them points at us, also. The threat is a total threat and
the danger is a common danger.

All free nations are exposed and all are in peril. Their only security lies in banding together.
No one nation can find protection in a selfish search for a safe haven from the storm.

The free nations do not have any aggressive purpose. We want only peace in the world--peace
for all countries. No threat to the security of any nation is concealed in our plans and programs.

We had hoped that the Soviet Union, with its security assured by the Charter of the United
Nations, would be willing to live and let live. But I am sorry to say that has not been the case.

The imperialism of the czars has been replaced by the even more ambitious, more crafty, and
more menacing imperialism of the rulers of the Soviet Union.

This new imperialism has powerful military forces. It is keeping millions of men under arms.
It has a large air force and a strong submarine force. It has complete control of the men and
equipment of its satellites. It has kept its subject peoples and its economy in a state of
perpetual mobilization.

The present rulers of the Soviet Union have shown that they are willing to use this power to
destroy the free nations and win domination over the whole world.

The Soviet imperialists have two ways of going about their destructive work. They use the method
of subversion and internal revolution, and they use the method of external aggression. In preparation
for either of these methods of attack, they stir up class strife and disorder. They encourage
sabotage. They put out poisonous propaganda. They deliberately try to prevent economic improvement.

If their efforts are successful, they foment a revolution, as they did in Czechoslovakia and
China, and as they tried, unsuccessfully, to do in Greece. If their methods of subversion are
blocked, and if they think they can get away with outright warfare, they resort to external
aggression. This is what they did when they loosed the armies of their puppet states against
the Republic of Korea, in an evil war by proxy.

We of the free world must be ready to meet both of these methods of Soviet action. We must
not neglect one or the other.

The free world has power and resources to meet these two forms of aggression--resources that
are far greater than those of the Soviet dictatorship. We have skilled and vigorous peoples,
great industrial strength, and abundant sources of raw materials. And above all, we cherish
liberty. Our common ideals are a great part of our strength. These ideals are the driving force
of human progress.

The free nations believe in the dignity and the worth of man.

We believe in independence for all nations.

We believe that free and independent nations can band together into a world order based on
law. We have laid the cornerstone of such a peaceful world in the United Nations.

We believe that such a world order can and should spread the benefits of modern science and
industry, better health and education, more food and rising standards of living--throughout
the world.

These ideals give our cause a power and vitality that Russian communism can never command.

The free nations, however, are bound together by more than ideals. They are a real community
bound together also by the ties of self-interest and self-preservation. If they should fall
apart, the results would be fatal to human freedom.

Our own national security is deeply involved with that of the other free nations. While they
need our support, we equally need theirs. Our national safety would be gravely prejudiced if
the Soviet Union were to succeed in harnessing to its war machine the resources and the manpower
of the free nations on the borders of its empire.

If Western Europe were to fall to Soviet Russia, it would double the Soviet supply of coal
and triple the Soviet supply of steel. If the free countries of Asia and Africa should fall
to Soviet Russia, we would lose the sources of many of our most vital raw materials, including
uranium, which is the basis of our atomic power. And Soviet command of the manpower of the
free nations of Europe and Asia would confront us with military forces which we could never
hope to equal.

In such a situation, the Soviet Union could impose its demands on the world, without resort
to conflict, simply through the preponderance of its economic and military power. The Soviet
Union does not have to attack the United States to secure domination of the world. It can achieve
its ends by isolating us and swallowing up all our allies. Therefore, even if we were craven
enough I do not believe we could be--but, I say, even if we were craven enough to abandon our
ideals, it would be disastrous for us to withdraw from the community of free nations.

We are the most powerful single member of this community, and we have a special responsibility.
We must take the leadership in meeting the challenge to freedom and in helping to protect the
rights of independent nations.

This country has a practical, realistic program of action for meeting this challenge.

First, we shall have to extend economic assistance, where it can be effective. The best way
to stop subversion by the Kremlin is to strike at the roots of social injustice and economic
disorder. People who have jobs, homes, and hopes for the future will defend themselves against
the underground agents of the Kremlin. Our programs of economic aid have done much to turn
back Communism,

In Europe the Marshall plan has had an electrifying result. As European recovery progressed,
the strikes led by the Kremlin's agents in Italy and France failed. All over Western Europe
the Communist Party took worse and worse beatings at the polls.

The countries which have received Marshall plan aid have been able, through hard work, to expand
their productive strength-in many cases, to levels higher than ever before in their history.
Without this strength they would be completely incapable of defending themselves today. They
are now ready to use this strength in helping to build a strong combined defense against aggression.

We shall need to continue some economic aid to European countries. This aid should now be specifically
related to the building of their defenses.

In other parts of the world our economic assistance will need to be more broadly directed toward
economic development. In the Near East, in Africa, in Asia, we must do what we can to help
people who are striving to advance from misery, poverty, and hunger. We must also continue
to help the economic growth of our good neighbors in this hemisphere. These actions will bring
greater strength for the free world. They will give many people a real stake in the future
and reason to defend their freedom. They will mean increased production of goods they need
and materials we need.

Second, we shall need to continue our military assistance to countries which want to defend
themselves.

The heart of our common defense effort is the North Atlantic community. The defense of Europe
is the basis for the defense of the whole free world--ourselves included. Next to the United
States, Europe is the largest workshop in the world. It is also a homeland of the great religious
beliefs shared by many of our citizens beliefs which are now threatened by the tide of atheistic
communism.

Strategically, economically, and morally, the defense of Europe is a part of our own defense.
That is why we have joined with the countries of Europe in the North Atlantic Treaty, pledging
ourselves to work with them.

There has been much discussion recently over whether the European countries are willing to
defend themselves. Their actions are answering this question.

Our North Atlantic Treaty partners have strict systems of universal military training. Several
have recently increased the term of service. All have taken measures to improve the quality
of training. Forces are being trained and expanded as rapidly as the necessary arms and equipment
can be supplied from their factories and ours. Our North Atlantic Treaty partners, together,
are building armies bigger than our own.

None of the North Atlantic Treaty countries, including our own country, has done enough yet.
But real progress is being made. Together, we have worked out defense plans. The military leaders
of our own country took part in working out these plans, and are agreed that they are sound
and within our capabilities.

To put these plans into action, we sent to Europe last week one of our greatest military commanders,
General Dwight D. Eisenhower.

General Eisenhower went to Europe to assume command of the united forces of the North Atlantic
Treaty countries, including our own forces in Germany.

The people of Europe have confidence in General Eisenhower. They know his ability to put together
a fighting force of allies. His mission is vital to our security. We should all stand behind
him, and give him every bit of help we can.

Part of our job will be to reinforce the military strength of our European partners by sending
them weapons and equipment as our military production expands.

Our program of military assistance extends to the nations in the Near East and the Far East
which are trying to defend their freedom. Soviet communism is trying to make these nations
into colonies, and to use their people as cannon fodder in new wars of conquest. We want their
people to be free men and to enjoy peace.

Our country has always stood for freedom for the peoples of Asia. Long, long ago it stood for
the freedom of the peoples of Asia. Our history shows this. We have demonstrated it in the
Philippines. We have demonstrated it in our relations with Indonesia, India, and with China.
We hope to join in restoring the people of Japan to membership in the community of free nations.

It is in the Far East that we have taken up arms, under the United Nations, to preserve the
principle of independence for free nations. We are fighting to keep the forces of Communist
aggression from making a slave state out of Korea.

Korea has tremendous significance for the world. It means that free nations, acting through
the United Nations, are fighting together against aggression.

We will understand the importance of this best if we look back into history. If the democracies
had stood up against the invasion of Manchuria in 1931, or the attack on Ethiopia in 1935,
or the seizure of Austria in 1938, if they had stood together against aggression on those occasions
as the United Nations has done in Korea, the whole history of our time would have been different.

The principles for which we are fighting in Korea are right and just. They are the foundations
of collective security and of the future of free nations. Korea is not only a country undergoing
the torment of aggression; it is also a symbol. It stands for right and justice in the world
against oppression and slavery. The free world must always stand for these principles--and
we will stand with the free world.

As the third part of our program, we will continue to work for peaceful settlements in international
disputes. We will support the United Nations and remain loyal to the great principles of international
cooperation laid down in its charter.

We are willing, as we have always been, to negotiate honorable settlements with the Soviet
Union. But we will not engage in appeasement.

The Soviet rulers have made it clear that we must have strength as well as right on our side.
If we build our strength--and we are building it--the Soviet rulers may face the facts and
lay aside their plans to take over the world.

That is what we hope will happen, and that is what we are trying to bring about. That is the
only realistic road to peace.

These are the main elements of the course our Nation must follow as a member of the community
of free nations. These are the things we must do to preserve our security and help create a
peaceful world. But they will be successful only if we increase the strength of our own country.

Here at home we have some very big jobs to do. We are building much stronger military forces--and
we are building them fast. We are preparing for full wartime mobilization, if that should be
necessary. And we are continuing to build a strong and growing economy, able to maintain whatever
effort may be required for as long as necessary.

We are building our own Army, Navy, and Air Force to an active strength of nearly 3 1/2 million
men and women. We are stepping up the training of the reserve forces, and establishing more
training facilities, so that we can rapidly increase our active forces far more on short notice.

We are going to produce all the weapons and equipment that such an armed force will need. Furthermore,
we will make weapons for our allies, and weapons for our own reserve supplies. On top of this,
we will build the capacity to turn out on short notice arms and supplies that may be needed
for a full-scale war.

Fortunately, we have a good start on this because of our enormous plant capacity and because
of the equipment on hand from the last war. For example, many combat ships are being returned
to active duty from the "mothball fleet" and many others can be put into service on very short
notice. We have large reserves of arms and ammunition and thousands of workers skilled in arms
production.

In many cases, however, our stocks of weapons are low. In other cases, those on hand are not
the most modern. We have made remarkable technical advances. We have developed new types of
jet planes and powerful new tanks. We are concentrating on producing the newest types of weapons
and producing them as fast as we can.

This production drive is more selective than the one we had during World War II, but it is
just as urgent and intense. It is a big program and it is a costly one.

Let me give you two concrete examples. Our present program calls for expanding the aircraft
industry so that it will have the capacity to produce 50,000 modern military planes a year.
We are preparing the capacity to produce 35,000 tanks a year. We are not now ordering that
many planes or that many tanks, and we hope that we never have to, but we mean to be able to
turn them out if we need them.

The planes we are producing now are much bigger, much better, and much more expensive than
the planes we had during the last war.

We used to think that the B-17 was a huge plane, and the blockbuster it carried a huge load.
But the B-36 can carry five of these blockbusters in its belly, and it can carry them five
times as far. Of course, the B-36 is much more complicated to build than the B-17, and far
more expensive. One B-17 costs $275,000, while now one B-36 costs $3 1/2 million.

I ask you to remember that what we are doing is to provide the best and most modern military
equipment in the world for our fighting forces.

This kind of defense production program has two parts.

The first part is to get our defense production going as fast as possible. We have to convert
plants and channel materials to defense production. This means heavy cuts in civilian uses
of copper, aluminum, rubber, and other essential materials. It means shortages in various consumer
goods.

The second part is to increase our capacity to produce and to keep our economy strong for the
long pull. We do not know how long Communist aggression will threaten the world.

Only by increasing our output can we carry the burden of preparedness for an indefinite period
in the future. This means that we will have to build more power plants and more steel mills,
grow more cotton, mine more copper, and expand our capacity in many other ways.

The Congress will need to consider legislation, at this session, affecting all the aspects
of our mobilization job. The main subjects on which legislation will be needed are:

First, appropriations for our military buildup.

Second, extension and revision of the Selective Service Act.

Third, military and economic aid to help build up the strength of the free world.

Fourth, revision and extension of the authority to expand production and to stabilize prices,
wages, and rents.

Fifth, improvement of our agricultural laws to help obtain the kinds of farm products we need
for the defense effort.

Sixth, improvement of our labor laws to help provide stable labor-management relations and
to make sure that we have steady production in this emergency.

Seventh, housing and training of defense workers and the full use of all our manpower resources.

Eighth, means for increasing the supply of doctors, nurses, and other trained medical personnel
critically needed for the defense effort.

Ninth, aid to the States to meet the most urgent needs of our elementary and secondary schools.
Some of our plans will have to be deferred for the time being. But we should do all we can
to make sure our children are being trained as good and useful citizens in the critical times
ahead.

Tenth, a major increase in taxes to meet the cost of the defense effort.

The Economic Report and the Budget Message will discuss these subjects further. In addition,
I shall send to the Congress special messages containing detailed recommendations on legislation
needed at this Session.

In the months ahead the Government must give priority to activities that are urgent--like military
procurement and atomic energy and power development. It must practice rigid economy in its
nondefense activities. Many of the things we would normally do must be curtailed or postponed.

But in a long-term defense effort like this one, we cannot neglect the measures needed to maintain
a strong economy and a healthy democratic society.

The Congress, therefore, should give continued attention to the measures which our country
will need for the long pull. And it should act upon such legislation as promptly as circumstances
permit.

To take just one example--we need to continue and complete the work of rounding out our system
of social insurance. We still need to improve our protection against unemployment and old age.
We still need to provide insurance against the loss of earnings through sickness, and against
the high costs of modern medical care.

And above all, we must remember that the fundamentals of our strength rest upon the freedoms
of our people. We must continue our efforts to achieve the full realization of our democratic
ideals. We must uphold the freedom of speech and the freedom of conscience in our land. We
must assure equal rights and equal opportunities to all our citizens.

As we go forward this year in the defense of freedom, let us keep dearly before us the nature
of our present effort.

We are building up our strength, in concert with other free nations, to meet the danger of
aggression that has been turned loose on the world. The strength of the free nations is the
world's best hope of peace.

I ask the Congress for unity in these crucial days.

Make no mistake about my meaning. I do not ask, or expect, unanimity. I do not ask for an end
to debate. Only by debate can we arrive at decisions which are wise, and which reflect the
desires of the American people. We do not have a dictatorship in this country, and we never
will have one in this country.

When I request unity, what I am really asking for is a sense of responsibility on the part
of every Member of this Congress. Let us debate the issues, but let every man among us weigh
his words and his deeds. There is a sharp difference between harmful criticism and constructive
criticism. If we are truly responsible as individuals, I am sure that we will be unified as
a government.

Let us keep our eyes on the issues and work for the things we all believe in.

Let each of us put our country ahead of our party, and ahead of our own personal interests.

I had the honor to be a Member of the Senate during World War II, and I know from experience
that unity of purpose and of effort is possible in the Congress without any lessening of the
vitality of our two-party system.

Let us all stand together as Americans. Let us stand together with all men everywhere who believe
in human liberty.

Peace is precious to us. It is the way of life we strive for with all the strength and wisdom
we possess. But more precious than peace are freedom and justice. We will fight, if fight we
must, to keep our freedom and to prevent justice from being destroyed.

These are the things that give meaning to our lives, and which we acknowledge to be greater
than ourselves.

This is our cause--peace, freedom, justice. We will pursue this cause with determination and
humility, asking divine guidance that in all we do we may follow the will of God.

***

State of the Union Address Harry S. Truman January 9, 1952

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress:

I have the honor to report to the Congress on the state of the Union.

At the outset, I should like to speak of the necessity for putting first things first as we
work together this year for the good of our country.

The United States and the whole free world are passing through a period of grave danger. Every
action you take here in Congress, and every action that I take as President, must be measured
against the test of whether it helps to meet that danger.

This will be a presidential election year-the year in which politics plays a large part in
our lives--a larger part than usual. That is perfectly proper. But we have a greater responsibility
to conduct our political fights in a manner that does not harm the national interest.

We can find plenty of things to differ about without destroying our free institutions and without
abandoning our bipartisan foreign policy for peace.

When everything is said and done, all of us--Republicans and Democrats alike--all of us are
Americans; and we are all going to sink or swim together.

We are moving through a perilous time. Faced with a terrible threat of aggression, our Nation
has embarked upon a great effort to help establish the kind of world in which peace shall be
secure. Peace is our goal-not peace at any price, but a peace based on freedom and justice.
We are now in the midst of our effort to reach that goal. On the whole, we have been doing
very well.

Last year, 1951, was a year in which we threw back aggression, added greatly to our military
strength, and improved the chances for peace and freedom in many parts of the world.

This year, 1952, is a critical year in the defense effort of the whole free world. If we falter
we can lose all the gains we have made. If we drive ahead, with courage and vigor and determination,
we can by the end of 1952 be in a position of much greater security. The way will be dangerous
for the years ahead, but if we put forth our best efforts this year--and next year--we can
be "over the hump" in our effort to build strong defenses.

When we look at the record of the past year, 1951, we find important things on both the credit
and the debit side of the ledger. We have made great advances. At the same time we have run
into new problems which must be overcome.

Now let us look at the credit side first.

Peace depends upon the free nations sticking together, and making a combined effort to check
aggression and prevent war. In this respect, 1951 was a year of great achievement.

In Korea the forces of the United Nations turned hack the Chinese Communist invasion-and did
it without widening the area of conflict. The action of the United Nations in Korea has been
a powerful deterrent to a third world war. However, the situation in Korea remains very hazardous.
The outcome of the armistice negotiation still remains uncertain.

In Indochina and Malaya, our aid has helped our allies to hold back the Communist advance,
although there are signs of further trouble in that area.

In 1951 we strengthened the chances of peace in the Pacific region by the treaties with Japan
and the defense arrangements with Australia, New Zealand, and the Philippines.

In Europe combined defense has become a reality. The free nations have created a real fighting
force. This force is not yet as strong as it needs to be; but it is already a real obstacle
to any attempt by hostile forces to sweep across Europe to the Atlantic.

In 1951 we also moved to strengthen the security of Europe by the agreement to bring Greece
and Turkey into the North Atlantic Treaty.

The United Nations, the world's greatest hope for peace, has come through a year of trial stronger
and more useful than ever. The free nations have stood together in blocking Communist attempts
to tear up the charter.

At the present session of the United Nations in Paris, we, together with the British and the
French, offered a plan to reduce and control all armaments under a foolproof inspection system.
This is a concrete, practical proposal for disarmament.

But what happened? Vishinsky laughed at it. Listen to what he said: "I could hardly sleep at
all last night .... I could not sleep because I kept laughing." The world will be a long time
forgetting the spectacle of that fellow laughing at disarmament.

Disarmament is not a joke. Vishinsky's laughter met with shock and anger from the people all
over the world. And, as a result, Mr. Stalin's representative received orders to stop laughing
and start talking.

If the Soviet leaders were to accept this proposal, it would lighten the burden of armaments,
and permit the resources of the earth to be devoted to the good of mankind. But until the Soviet
Union accepts a sound disarmament proposal, and joins in peaceful settlements, we have no choice
except to build up our defenses.

During this past year we added more than a million men and women to our Armed Forces. The total
is now nearly 3 1/2 million. We have made rapid progress in the field of atomic weapons. We
have turned out billion worth of military supplies and equipment, three times as much as the
year before.

Economic conditions in the country are good. There are 61 million people on the job; wages,
farm incomes, and business profits are at high levels. Total production of goods and services
in our country has increased 8 percent over last year--about twice the normal rate of growth.

Perhaps the most amazing thing about our economic progress is the way we are increasing our
basic capacity to produce. For example, we are now in the second year of a 3-year program which
will double our output of aluminum, increase our electric power supply by 40 percent, and increase
our steelmaking capacity by 15 percent. We can then produce 120 million tons of steel a year,
as much as all the rest of the world put together.

This expansion will mean more jobs and higher standards of living for all of us in the years
ahead. At the present time it means greater strength for us and for the rest of the free world
in the fight for peace.

Now, I must turn to the debit side of the ledger for the past year.

The outstanding fact to note on the debit side of the ledger is that the Soviet Union, in 1951,
continued to expand its military production and increase its already excessive military power.

It is true that the Soviets have run into increasing difficulties. Their hostile policies have
awakened stern resistance among free men throughout the world. And behind the Iron Curtain
the Soviet rule of force has created growing political and economic stresses in the satellite
nations.

Nevertheless, the grim fact remains that the Soviet Union is increasing its armed might. It
is still producing more war planes than the free nations. It has set off two more atomic explosions.
The world still walks in the shadow of another world war.

And here at home, our defense preparations are far from complete.

During 1951 we did not make adequate progress in building up civil defense against atomic attack.
This is a major weakness in our plans for peace, since inadequate civilian defense is an open
invitation to a surprise attack. Failure to provide adequate civilian defense has the same
effect as adding to the enemy's supply of atomic bombs.

In the field of defense production we have run into difficulties and delays in designing and
producing the latest types of airplanes and tanks. Some machine tools and metals are still
in extremely short supply.

In other free countries the defense buildup has created severe economic problems. It has increased
inflation in Europe and has endangered the continued recovery of our allies.

In the Middle East political tensions and the oil controversy in Iran are keeping the region
in a turmoil. In the Far East the dark threat of Communist imperialism still hangs over many
nations.

This, very briefly, is the good side and the bad side of the picture.

Taking the good and bad together, we have made real progress this last year along the road
to peace. We have increased the power and unity of the free world. And while we were doing
this, we have avoided world war on the one hand, and appeasement on the other. This is a hard
road to follow, but the events of the last year show that it is the right road to peace.

We cannot expect to complete the job overnight. The free nations may have to maintain for years
the larger military forces needed to deter aggression. We must build steadily, over a period
of years, toward political solidarity and economic progress among the free nations in all parts
of the world.

Our task will not be easy; but if we go at it with a will, we can look forward to steady progress.
On our side are all the great resources of freedom--the ideals of religion and democracy, the
aspiration of people for a better life, and the industrial and technical power of a free civilization.

These advantages outweigh anything the slave world can produce. The only thing that can defeat
us is our own state of mind. We can lose if we falter.

The middle period of a great national effort like this is a very difficult time. The way seems
long and hard. The goal seems far distant. Some people get discouraged. That is only natural.

But if there are any among us who think we ought to ease up in the fight for peace, I want
to remind them of three things--just three things.

First: The threat of world war is still very real. We had one Pearl Harbor--let's not get caught
off guard again. If you don't think the threat of Communist armies is real, talk to some of
our men back from Korea.

Second: If the United States had to try to stand alone against a Soviet-dominated world, it
would destroy the life we know and the ideals we hold dear. Our allies are essential to us,
just as we are essential to them. The more shoulders there are to bear the burden the lighter
that burden will be.

Third: The things we believe in most deeply are under relentless attack. We have the great
responsibility of saving the basic moral and spiritual values of our civilization. We have
started out well--with a program for peace that is unparalleled in history. If we believe in
ourselves and the faith we profess, we will stick to that job until it is victoriously finished.

This is a time for courage, not for grumbling and mumbling.

Now, let us take a look at the things we have to do.

The thing that is uppermost in the minds of all of us is the situation in Korea. We must, and
we will, keep up the fight there until we get the kind of armistice that will put an end to
the aggression and protect the safety of our forces and the security of the Republic of Korea.
Beyond that we shall continue to work for a settlement in Korea that upholds the principles
of the United Nations.

We went into Korea because we knew that Communist aggression had to be met firmly if freedom
was to be preserved in the world. We went into the fight to save the Republic of Korea, a free
country, established under the United Nations. These are our aims. We will not give up until
we attain them.

Meanwhile, we must continue to strengthen the forces of freedom throughout the world.

I hope the Senate will take early and favorable action on the Japanese peace treaty, on our
security pacts with the Pacific countries, and on the agreement to bring Greece and Turkey
into the North Atlantic Treaty.

We are also negotiating an agreement with the German Federal Republic under which it can play
an honorable and equal part among nations and take its place in the defense of Western Europe.

But treaties and plans are only the skeleton of our defense structure. The sinew and muscle
of defense are the forces and equipment which must be provided.

In Europe we must go on helping our friends and allies to build up their military forces. This
means we must send weapons in large volume to our European allies. I have directed that weapons
for Europe be given a very high priority. Economic aid is necessary, too, to supply the margin
of difference between success and failure in making Europe a strong partner in our joint defense.

In the long run we want to see Europe freed from any dependence on our aid. Our European allies
want that just as bad as we do. The steps that are now being taken to build European unity
should help bring that about. Six European countries are pooling their coal and steel production
under the Schuman plan. Work is going forward on the merger of European national forces on
the Continent into a single army. These great projects should become realities in 1952.

We should do all we can to help and encourage the move toward a strong and united Europe.

In Asia the new Communist empire is a daily threat to millions of people. The peoples of Asia
want to be free to follow their own way of life. They want to preserve their culture and their
traditions against communism, just as much as we want to preserve ours. They are laboring under
terrific handicaps--poverty, ill health, feudal systems of land ownership, and the threat of
internal subversion or external attack. We can and we must increase our help to them.

This means military aid, especially to those places like Indochina which might be hardest hit
by some new Communist attack.

It also means economic aid, both technical know-how and capital investment.

This last year we made available millions of bushels of wheat to relieve famine in India. But
far more important, in the long run, is the work Americans are doing in India to help the Indian
farmers themselves raise more grain. With the help of our technicians, Indian farmers, using
simple, inexpensive means, have been able since 1948 to double the crops in one area in India.
One farmer there raised 63 bushels of wheat to the acre, where 13 bushels had been the average
before.

This is point 4--our point 4 program at work. It is working--not only in India but in Iran,
Paraguay, Liberia--in 33 countries around the globe. Our technical missionaries are out there.
We need more of them. We need more funds to speed their efforts, because there is nothing of
greater importance in all our foreign policy. There is nothing that shows more clearly what
we stand for, and what we want to achieve.

My friends of the Congress, less than one-third of the expenditure for the cost of World War
II would have created the developments necessary to feed the whole world so we wouldn't have
to stomach communism. That is what we have got to fight, and unless we fight that battle and
win it, we can't win the cold war or a hot one either.

We have recently lost a great public servant who was leading this effort to bring opportunity
and hope to the people of half the world. Dr. Henry Bennett and his associates died in line
of duty on a point 4 mission. It is up to us to carry on the great work for which they gave
their lives.

During the coming year we must not forget the suffering of the people who live behind the Iron
Curtain. In those areas minorities are being oppressed, human rights violated, religions persecuted.
We should continue to expose those wrongs. We should continue and expand the activities of
the Voice of America, which brings our message of hope and truth to those peoples and other
peoples throughout the world.

I have just had an opportunity to discuss many of these world problems with Prime Minister
Churchill. We have had a most satisfactory series of meetings. We thoroughly reviewed the situation
in Europe, the Middle East, and the Far East. We both look forward to steady progress toward
peace through the cooperative action and teamwork of the free nations.

Turning from our foreign policies, let us consider the jobs we have here at home as a part
of our program for peace.

The first of these jobs is to move ahead full steam on the defense program.

Our objective is to have a well-equipped active defense force large enough--in concert with
the forces of our allies--to deter aggression and to inflict punishing losses on the enemy
immediately if we should be attacked. This active force must be backed by adequate reserves,
and by the plants and tools to turn out the tremendous quantities of new weapons that would
be needed if war came. We are not building an active force adequate to carry on full scale
war, but we are putting ourselves in a position to mobilize very rapidly if we have to.

This year I shall recommend some increases in the size of the active force we are building,
with particular emphasis on air power. This means we shall have to continue large-scale production
of planes and other equipment for a longer period of time than we had originally planned.

Planes and tanks and other weapons-what the military call "hard goods"--are now beginning to
come off the production lines in volume. Deliveries of hard goods now amount to about a billion
and a half dollars worth a month. A year from now, we expect that rate to be doubled.

We shall have to hold to a high rate of military output for about a year after that. In 1954
we hope to have enough equipment so that we can reduce the production of most military items
substantially. The next 2 years should therefore be the peak period of defense production.

Defense needs will take a lot of steel, aluminum, copper, nickel, and other scarce materials.
This means smaller production of some civilian goods. The cutbacks will be nothing like those
during World War II, when most civilian production was completely stopped. But there will be
considerably less of some goods than we have been used to these past 2 or 3 years.

The very critical part of our defense job this year is to keep down inflation.

We can control inflation if we make up our minds to do it.

On the executive side of the Government, we intend to hold the line on prices just as tightly
as the law allows. We will permit only those wage increases which are clearly justified under
sound stabilization policies; and we will see to it that industries absorb cost increases out
of earnings wherever feasible, before they are authorized to raise prices. We will do that,
at any rate, except where the recent amendments to the law specifically require us to give
further price increases.

Congress has a tremendous responsibility in this matter. Our stabilization law was shot full
of holes at the last session. This year, it will be one of the main tasks before the Congress
to repair the damage and enact a strong anti-inflation law.

As a part of our program to keep our country strong, we are determined to preserve the financial
strength of the Government. This means high taxes over the next few years. We must see to it
that these taxes are shared among the people as fairly as possible. I expect to discuss these
matters in the Economic Report and the Budget Message which will soon be presented to the Congress.

Our tax laws must be fair. And we must make absolutely certain they are administered fairly,
without fear or favor of any kind for anybody. To this end, steps have already been taken to
remedy weaknesses which have been disclosed in the administration of the tax laws. In addition,
I hope the Congress will approve my reorganization plan for the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
We must do everything necessary in order to make just as certain as is humanly possible that
every taxpayer receives equal treatment under the law.

To carry the burden of defense we must have a strong, productive, and expanding economy here
at home. We cannot neglect those things that have made us the great and powerful nation we
are today.

Our strength depends upon the health, the morale, the freedom of our people. We can take on
the burden of leadership in the fight for world peace because, for nearly 20 years, the Government
and the people have been working together for the general welfare. We have given more and more
of out citizens a fair chance at decent, useful, productive lives. That is the reason we are
as strong as we are today.

This Government of ours--the Congress and the executive both--must keep on working to bring
about a fair deal for all the American people. Some people will say that we haven't the time
or the money this year for measures for the welfare of the people. But if we want to win the
fight for peace, this is a part of the job we cannot ignore.

We will have to give up some things, we will have to go forward on others at a slower pace.
But, so far as I am concerned, I do not think we can give up the things that are vital to our
national strength.

I believe most people in this country will agree with me on that.

I think most farmers understand that soil conservation and rural electrification and agricultural
research are not frills or luxuries, but real necessities in order to boost our farm production.

I think most workers understand that decent housing and good working conditions are not luxuries,
but necessities if the working men and women of this country are to continue to out-produce
the rest of the world.

I think our businessmen know that scientific research and transportation services and more
steel mills and power projects are not luxuries, but necessities to keep our business and our
industry in the forefront of industrial progress.

I think everybody knows that social insurance and better schools and health services are not
frills, but necessities in helping all Americans to be useful and productive citizens, who
can contribute their full share in the national effort to protect and advance our way of life.

We cannot do all we want to in times like these--we have to choose the things that will contribute
most to defense--but we must continue to make progress if we are to be a strong nation in the
years ahead.

Let me give you some examples.

We are going right ahead with the urgently needed work to develop our natural resources, to
conserve our soil, and to prevent floods. We are going to produce essential power and build
the lines that are necessary and that we have to have to transmit it to our farms and factories.
We are going to encourage exploration for new mineral deposits.

We are going to keep on building essential highways and taking any other steps that will assure
the Nation an adequate transportation system--on land, on the sea, and in the air.

We must move right ahead this year to see that defense workers and soldiers' families get decent
housing at rents they can afford to pay.

We must begin our long deferred program of Federal aid to education--to help the States meet
the present crisis in the operation of our schools. And we must help with the construction
of schools in areas where they are critically needed because of the defense effort.

We urgently need to train more doctors and other health personnel, through aid to medical education.
We also urgently need to expand the basic public health services in our home communities--especially
in defense areas. The Congress should go ahead with these two measures immediately.

I have set up an impartial commission to make a thorough study of the Nation's health needs.
One of the things this commission is looking into is how to bring the cost of modern medical
care within the reach of all the people. I have repeatedly recommended national health insurance
as the best way to do this. So far as I know, it is still the best way. If there are any better
answers, I hope this commission will find them. But of one thing I am sure: something must
be done, and done soon.

This year we ought to make a number of urgently needed improvements in our social security
law. For one thing, benefits under old-age and survivors insurance should be raised $5 a month
above the present average of $42. For another thing, the States should be given special aid
to help them increase public assistance payments. By doing these things now, we can ease the
pressure of living costs for people who depend on those fixed payments.

We should also make some cost-of-living adjustments for those receiving veterans' compensation
for death or disability incurred in the service of our country. In addition, now is the time
to start a sensible program of readjustment benefits for our veterans who have seen service
since the fighting broke out in Korea.

Another thing the Congress should do at this session is to strengthen our system of farm price
supports to meet the defense emergency. The "sliding scale" in the price support law should
not be allowed to penalize farmers for increasing production to meet defense needs. We should
also find a new and less costly method for supporting perishable commodities than the law now
provides.

We need to act promptly to improve our labor law. The Taft-Hartley Act has many serious and
far-reaching defects. Experience has demonstrated this so clearly that even the sponsors of
the act now admit that it needs to be changed. A fair law, fair to both management and labor,
is indispensable to sound labor relations and to full, uninterrupted production. I intend to
keep on working for a fair law until we get one.

As we build our strength to defend the freedom in the world, we ourselves must extend the benefits
of freedom more widely among all our own people. We need to take action toward the wider enjoyment
of civil rights. Freedom is the birthright of every American.

The executive branch has been making real progress toward full equality of treatment and opportunity--in
the Armed Forces, in the civil service, and in private firms working for the Government. Further
advances require action by Congress, and I hope that means will be provided to give the Members
of the Senate and the House a chance to vote on them.

I am glad to hear that home rule for the District of Columbia will be the first item of business
before the Senate. I hope that it, as well as statehood for Hawaii and Alaska, will be adopted
promptly.

All these measures I have been talking about--measures to advance the well-being of our people--demonstrate
to the world the forward movement of our free society.

This demonstration of the way free men govern themselves has a more powerful influence on the
people of the world--on both sides of the Iron Curtain--than all the trick slogans and pie-in-the-sky
promises of the Communists.

But our shortcomings, as well as our progress, are watched from abroad. And there is one shortcoming
I want to speak about plainly.

Our kind of government above all others cannot tolerate dishonesty among public servants.

Some dishonest people worm themselves into almost every human organization. It is all the more
shocking, however, when they make their way into a Government such as ours, which is based
on the principle of justice for all. Such unworthy public servants must be weeded out. I intend
to see to it that Federal employees who have been guilty of misconduct are punished for it.
I also intend to see to it that the honest and hard-working great majority of our Federal employees
are protected against partisan slander and malicious attack.

I have already made some recommendations to the Congress to help accomplish these purposes.
I intend to submit further recommendations to this end. I will welcome the wholehearted cooperation
of the Congress in this effort.

I also think that the Congress can do a great deal to strengthen confidence in our institutions
by applying rigorous standards of moral integrity to its own operations, and by finding an
effective way to control campaign expenditures, and by protecting the rights of individuals
in congressional investigations.

To meet the crisis which now hangs over the world, we need many different kinds of strength--military,
economic, political, and moral. And of all these, I am convinced that moral strength is the
most vital.

When you come right down to it, it is the courage and the character of our Nation--and of each
one of us as individuals-that will really decide how well we meet this challenge.

We are engaged in a great undertaking at home and abroad--the greatest, in fact, that any nation
has ever been privileged to embark upon. We are working night and day to bring peace to the
world and to spread the democratic ideals of justice and self-government to all people. Our
accomplishments are already remarkable. We ought to be full of pride in what we are doing,
and full of confidence and hope in the outcome. No nation ever had greater resources, or greater
energy, or nobler traditions to inspire it.

And yet, day in and day out, we see a long procession of timid and fearful men who wring their
hands and cry out that we have lost the way, that we don't know what we are doing, that we
are bound to fail. Some say we should give up the struggle for peace, and others say we should
have a war and get it over with. That's a terrible statement. I had heard it made, but they
want us to forget the great objective of preventing another world war--the objective for which
our soldiers have been fighting in the hills of Korea.

If we are to be worthy of all that has been done for us by our soldiers in the field, we must
be true to the ideals for which they are fighting. We must reject the counsels of defeat and
despair. We must have the determination to complete the great work for which our men have laid
down their lives.

In all we do, we should remember who we are and what we stand for. We are Americans. Our forefathers
had far greater obstacles than we have, and much poorer chances of success. They did not lose
heart, or turn aside from their goals. In the darkest of all winters in American history, at
Valley Forge, George Washington said: "We must not, in so great a contest, expect to meet with
nothing but sunshine." With that spirit they won their fight for freedom.

We must have that same faith and vision. In the great contest in which we are engaged today,
we cannot expect to have fair weather all the way. But it is a contest just as important for
this country and for all men, as the desperate struggle that George Washington fought through
to victory.

Let us prove, again, that we are not merely sunshine patriots and summer soldiers. Let us go
forward, trusting in the God of Peace, to win the goals we seek.

***

State of the Union Address Harry S. Truman January 7, 1953

To the Congress of the United States:

I have the honor to report to the Congress on the state of the Union.

This is the eighth such report that, as President, I have been privileged to present to you
and to the country. On previous occasions, it has been my custom to set forth proposals for
legislative action in the coming year. But that is not my purpose today. The presentation of
a legislative program falls properly to my successor, not to me, and I would not infringe upon
his responsibility to chart the forward course. Instead, I wish to speak of the course we have
been following the past eight years and the position at which we have arrived.

In just two weeks, General Eisenhower will be inaugurated as President of the United States
and I will resume--most gladly--my place as a private citizen of this Republic. The Presidency
last changed hands eight years ago this coming April. That was a tragic time: a time of grieving
for President Roosevelt--the great and gallant human being who had been taken from us; a time
of unrelieved anxiety to his successor, thrust so suddenly into the complexities and burdens
of the Presidential office.

Not so this time. This time we see the normal transition under our democratic system. One President,
at the conclusion of his term, steps back to private life; his successor, chosen by the people,
begins his tenure of the office. And the Presidency of the United States continues to function
without a moment's break.

Since the election, I have done my best to assure that the transfer from one Administration
to another shall be smooth and orderly. From General Eisenhower and his associates, I have
had friendly and understanding collaboration in this endeavor. I have not sought to thrust
upon him--nor has he sought to take--the responsibility which must be mine until twelve o'clock
noon on January twentieth. But together, I hope and believe we have found means whereby the
incoming President can obtain the full and detailed information he will need to assume the
responsibility the moment he takes the oath of office.

The President-elect is about to take up the greatest burdens, the most compelling responsibilities,
given to any man. And I, with you and all Americans, wish for him all possible success in undertaking
the tasks that will so soon be his.

What are these tasks? The President is Chief of State, elected representative of all the people,
national spokesman for them and to them. He is Commander-in-Chief of our armed forces. He is
charged with the conduct of our foreign relations. He is Chief Executive of the Nation's largest
civilian organization. He must select and nominate all top officials of the Executive Branch
and all Federal judges. And on the legislative side, he has the obligation and the opportunity
to recommend, and to approve or veto legislation. Besides all this, it is to him that a great
political party turns naturally for leadership, and that, too, he must provide as President.

This bundle of burdens is unique; there is nothing else like it on the face of the earth. Each
task could be a full-time job. Together, they would be a tremendous undertaking in the easiest
of times.

But our times are not easy; they are hard-as hard and complex, perhaps as any in our history.
Now, the President not only has to carry on these tasks in such a way that our democracy may
grow and flourish and our people prosper, but he also has to lead the whole free world in overcoming
the communist menace--and all this under the shadow of the atomic bomb.

This is a huge challenge to the human being who occupies the Presidential office. But it is
not a challenge to him alone, for in reality he cannot meet it alone. The challenge runs not
just to him but to his whole Administration, to the Congress, to the country.

Ultimately, no President can master his responsibilities, save as his fellow citizens-indeed,
the whole people--comprehend the challenge of our times and move, with him, to meet it.

It has been my privilege to hold the Presidential office for nearly eight years now, and much
has been done in which I take great pride. But this is not personal pride. It is pride in the
people, in the Nation. It is pride in our political system and our form of government--balky
sometimes, mechanically deficient perhaps, in many ways--but enormously alive and vigorous;
able through these years to keep the Republic on the right course, rising to the great occasions,
accomplishing the essentials, meeting the basic challenge of our times.

There have been misunderstandings and controversies these past eight years, but through it
all the President of the United States has had that measure of support and understanding without
which no man could sustain the burdens of the Presidential office, or hope to discharge its
responsibilities.

For this I am profoundly grateful--grateful to my associates in the Executive Branch--most
of them non-partisan civil servants; grateful--despite our disagreements-to the Members of
the Congress on both sides of the aisle; grateful especially to the American people, the citizens
of this Republic, governors of us all.

We are still so close to recent controversies that some of us may find it hard to understand
the accomplishments of these past eight years. But the accomplishments are real and very great,
not as the President's, not as the Congress', but as the achievements of our country and all
the people in it.

Let me remind you of some of the things we have done since I first assumed my duties as President
of the United States.

I took the oath of office on April 12, 1945. In May of that same year, the Nazis surrendered.
Then, in July, that great white flash of light, man-made at Alamogordo, heralded swift and
final victory in World War II--and opened the doorway to the atomic age.

Consider some of the great questions that were posed for us by sudden, total victory in World
War II. Consider also, how well we as a Nation have responded.

Would the American economy collapse, after the war? That was one question. Would there be another
depression here--a repetition of 1921 or 1929? The free world feared and dreaded it. The communists
hoped for it and built their policies upon that hope.

We answered that question--answered it with a resounding "no."

Our economy has grown tremendously. Free enterprise has flourished as never fore. Sixty-two
million people are now gainfully employed, compared with 51 million seven years ago. Private
businessmen and farmers have invested more than 200 billion dollars in new plant and equipment
since the end of World War II. Prices have risen further than they should have done--but incomes,
by and large, have risen even more, so that real living standards are now considerably higher
than seven years ago. Aided by sound government policies, our expanding economy has shown the
strength and flexibility for swift and almost painless reconversion from war to peace, in 1945
and 1946; for quick reaction and recovery--well before Korea--from the beginnings of recession
in 1949. Above all, this live and vital economy of ours has now shown the remarkable capacity
to sustain a great mobilization program for defense, a vast outpouring of aid to friends and
allies all around the world--and still to produce more goods and services for peaceful use
at home than we have ever known before.

This has been our answer, up to now, to those who feared or hoped for a depression in this country.

How have we handled our national finances? That was another question arising at war's end.
In the administration of the Government, no problem takes more of the President's time, year
in and year out, than fashioning the Budget, and the related problem of managing the public debt.

Financing World War II left us with a tremendous public debt, which reached 279 billion dollars
at its peak in February, 1946.

Beginning in July, 1946, when war and reconversion financing had ended, we have held quite
closely to the sound standard that in times of high employment and high national income, the
Federal Budget should be balanced and the debt reduced.

For the four fiscal years from July 1, 1946, to June 30, 1950, we had a net surplus of 4.3
billion dollars. Using this surplus, and the Treasury's excess cash reserves, the debt was
reduced substantially, reaching a low point of 251 billion dollars in June, 1949, and ending
up at 257 billion dollars on June 30, 1950.

In July of 1950, we began our rapid rearmament, and for two years held very close to a pay-as-we-go
policy. But in the current fiscal year and the next, rising expenditures for defense will substantially
outrun receipts. This will pose an immediate and serious problem for the new Congress.

Now let me turn to another question we faced at the war's end. Would we take up again, and
carry forward, the great projects of social welfare--so badly needed, so long overdue--that
the New Deal had introduced into our national life? Would our Government continue to have a
heart for the people, or was the progress of the New Deal to be halted in the aftermath of
war as decisively as the progress of Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom had been halted after the
first world war?

This question, too, we have answered. We have answered it by doubling old age insurance benefits
and extending coverage to ten million more people. We have answered it by increasing our minimum
wage. We have answered by the three million privately constructed homes that the Federal Government
has helped finance since the war--and the 155 thousand units of low rent public housing placed
under construction since 1949.

We have answered with the 42 thousand new hospital beds provided since 1946 through the joint
efforts of the Federal Government and local communities.

We have answered by helping eight million veterans of World War II to obtain advanced education,
196 thousand to start in business, and 64 thousand to buy farms.

We have answered by continuing to help farmers obtain electric power, until today nearly 90
per cent of our farms have power line electric service.

In these and other ways, we have demonstrated, up to now, that our democracy has not forgotten
how to use the powers of the Government to promote the people's welfare and security.

Another of the big post-war questions was this: What we would do with the Nation's natural
resources--its soils and water, forests and grasslands. Would we continue the strong conservation
movement of the 1930's, or would we, as we did after the First World War, slip back into the
practices of monopoly, exploitation, and waste?

The answer is plain. All across our country, the soil conservation movement has spread, aided
by Government programs, enriching private and public lands, preserving them from destruction,
improving them for future use. In our river basins, we have invested nearly 5 billion dollars
of public funds in the last eight years--invested them in projects to control floods, irrigate
farmlands, produce low-cost power and get it to the housewives and farmers and businessmen
who need it. We have been vigilant in protecting the people's property--lands and forests and
oil and minerals.

We have had to fight hard against those who would use our resources for private greed; we have
met setbacks; we have had to delay work because of defense priorities, but on the whole we
can be proud of our record in protecting our natural heritage, and in using our resources for
the public good.

Here is another question we had to face at the war's close: Would we continue, in peace as
well as war, to promote equality of opportunity for all our citizens, seeking ways and means
to guarantee for all of them the full enjoyment of their civil rights?

During the war we achieved great economic and social gains for millions of our fellow citizens
who had been held back by prejudice. Were we prepared, in peacetime, to keep on moving toward
full realization of the democratic promise? Or would we let it be submerged, wiped out, in
post-war riots and reaction, as after World War I?

We answered these questions in a series of forward steps at every level of government and in
many spheres of private life. In our armed forces, our civil service, our universities, our
railway trains, the residential districts of our cities--in stores and factories all across
the Nation--in the polling booths as well--the barriers are coming down. This is happening,
in part, at the mandate of the courts; in part, at the insistence of Federal, State and local
governments; in part, through the enlightened action of private groups and persons in every
region and every walk of life.

There has been a great awakening of the American conscience on the issues of civil rights.
And all this progress--still far from complete but still continuing--has been our answer, up
to now, to those who questioned our intention to live up to the promises of equal freedom for
us all.

There was another question posed for us at the war's end, which equally concerned the future
course of our democracy: Could the machinery of government and politics in this Republic be
changed, improved, adapted rapidly enough to carry through, responsibly and well, the vast,
new complicated undertakings called for in our time?

We have answered this question, too, answered it by tackling the most urgent, most specific,
problems which the war experience itself had brought into sharp focus. The reorganization of
the Congress in 1946; the unification of our armed services, beginning in 1947; the closer
integration of foreign and military policy through the National Security Council created that
same year; and the Executive reorganizations, before and after the Hoover-Acheson Commission
Report in 1949--these are landmarks in our continuing endeavor to make government an effective
instrument of service to the people.

I come now to the most vital question of all, the greatest of our concerns: Could there be
built in the world a durable structure of security, a lasting peace for all the nations, or
would we drift, as after World War I, toward another terrible disaster--a disaster which this
time might be the holocaust of atomic war?

That is still the overriding question of our time. We cannot know the answer yet; perhaps we
will not know it finally for a long time to come. But day and night, these past eight years,
we have been building for peace, searching out the way that leads most surely to security and
freedom and justice in the world for us and all mankind.

This, above all else, has been the task of our Republic since the end of World War II, and
our accomplishment so far should give real pride to all Americans. At the very least, a total
war has been averted, each day up to this hour. And at the most, we may already have succeeded
in establishing conditions which can keep that kind of war from happening, for as far ahead
as man can see.

The Second World War radically changed the power relationships of the world. Nations once great
were left shattered and weak, channels of communication, routes of trade, political and economic
ties of many kinds were ripped apart.

And in this changed, disrupted, chaotic situation, the United States and the Soviet Union emerged
as the two strongest powers of the world. Each had tremendous human and natural resources,
actual or potential, on a scale unmatched by any other nation.

Nothing could make plainer why the world is in its present state--and how that came to pass--than
an understanding of the diametrically opposite principles and policies of these two great powers
in a war-ruined world.

For our part, we in this Republic were-and are--free men, heirs of the American Revolution,
dedicated to the truths of our Declaration of Independence:

"... That all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
rights... That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their
just powers from the consent of the governed."

Our post-war objective has been in keeping with this great idea. The United States has sought
to use its pre-eminent position of power to help other nations recover from the damage and
dislocation of the war. We held out a helping hand to enable them to restore their national
lives and to regain their positions as independent, self-supporting members of the great family
of nations. This help was given without any attempt on our part to dominate or control any
nation. We did not want satellites but partners.

The Soviet Union, however, took exactly the opposite course.

Its rulers saw in the weakened condition of the world not an obligation to assist in the great
work of reconstruction, but an opportunity to exploit misery and suffering for the extension
of their power. Instead of help, they brought subjugation. They extinguished, blotted out,
the national independence of the countries that the military operations of World War II had
left within their grasp.

The difference stares at us from the map of Europe today. To the west of the line that tragically
divides Europe we see nations continuing to act and live in the light of their own traditions
and principles. On the other side, we see the dead uniformity of a tyrannical system imposed
by the rulers of the Soviet Union. Nothing could point up more clearly what the global struggle
between the free world and the communists is all about.

It is a struggle as old as recorded history; it is freedom versus tyranny.

For the dominant idea of the Soviet regime is the terrible conception that men do not have
rights but live at the mercy of the state.

Inevitably this idea of theirs--and all the consequences flowing from it--collided with the
efforts of free nations to build a just and peaceful world. The "cold war" between the communists
and the free world is nothing more or less than the Soviet attempt to checkmate and defeat
our peaceful purposes, in furtherance of their own dread objective.

We did not seek this struggle, God forbid. We did our utmost to avoid it. In World War II,
we and the Russians had fought side by side, each in our turn attacked and forced to combat
by the aggressors. After the war, we hoped that our wartime collaboration could be maintained,
that the frightful experience of Nazi invasion, of devastation in the heart of Russia, had
turned the Soviet rulers away from their old proclaimed allegiance to world revolution and
communist dominion. But instead, they violated, one by one, the solemn agreements they had
made with us in wartime. They sought to use the rights and privileges they had obtained in
the United Nations, to frustrate its purposes and cut down its powers as an effective agent
of world progress and the keeper of the world's peace.

Despite this outcome, the efforts we made toward peaceful collaboration are a source of our
present strength. They demonstrated that we believed what we proclaimed, that we actually sought
honest agreements as the way to peace. Our whole moral position, our leadership in the free
world today, is fortified by that fact.

The world is divided, not through our fault or failure, but by Soviet design. They, not we,
began the cold war. And because the free world saw this happen because men know we made the
effort and the Soviet rulers spurned it--the free nations have accepted leadership from our
Republic, in meeting and mastering the Soviet offensive.

It seems to me especially important that all of us be clear, in our own thinking, about the
nature of the threat we have faced-and will face for a long time to come. The measures we have
devised to meet it take shape and pattern only as we understand what we were--and are--up against.

The Soviet Union occupies a territory of 8 million square miles. Beyond its borders, East and
West, are the nearly five million square miles of the satellite states--virtually incorporated
into the Soviet Union--and of China, now its close partner. This vast land mass contains an
enormous store of natural resources sufficient to support an economic development comparable
to our own.

That is the Stalinist world. It is a world of great natural diversity in geography and climate,
in distribution of resources, in population, language, and living standards, in economic and
cultural development. It is a world whose people are not all convinced communists by any means.
It is a world where history and national traditions, particularly in its borderlands, tend
more toward separation than unification, and run counter to the enforced combination that has
been made of these areas today.

But it is also a world of great man-made uniformities, a world that bleeds its population white
to build huge military forces; a world in which the police are everywhere and their authority
unlimited; a world where terror and slavery are deliberately administered both as instruments
of government and as means of production; a world where all effective social power is the state's
monopoly--yet the state itself is the creature of the communist tyrants.

The Soviet Union, with its satellites, and China are held in the tight grip of communist party
chieftains. The party dominates all social and political institutions. The party regulates
and centrally directs the whole economy. In Moscow's sphere, and in Peiping's, all history,
philosophy, morality and law are centrally established by rigid dogmas, incessantly drummed
into the whole population and subject to interpretation--or to change by none except the party's
own inner circle.

And lest their people learn too much of other ways of life, the communists have walled off
their world, deliberately and uniformly, from the rest of human society.

That is the communist base of operation in-their cold war. In addition, they have at their
command hundreds and thousands of dedicated foreign communists, people in nearly every free
country who will serve Moscow's ends. Thus the masters of the Kremlin are provided with deluded
followers all through the free world whom they can manipulate, cynically and quite ruthlessly,
to serve the purposes of the Soviet state.

Given their vast internal base of operations, and their agents in foreign lands, what are the
communist rulers trying to do?

Inside their homeland, the communists are trying to maintain and modernize huge military forces.
And simultaneously, they are endeavoring to weld their whole vast area and population into
a completely self-contained, advanced industrial society. They aim, some day, to equal or better
the production levels of Western Europe and North America combined--thus shifting the balance
of world economic power, and war potential, to their side.

They have a long way to go and they know it. But they are prepared to levy upon living generations
any sacrifice that helps strengthen their armed power, or speed industrial development.

Externally, the communist rulers are trying to expand the boundaries of their world, whenever
and wherever they can. This expansion they have pursued steadfastly since the close of World
War II, using any means available to them.

Where the Soviet army was present, as in the countries of Eastern Europe, they have gradually
squeezed free institutions to death.

Where post-war chaos existed in industrialized nations, as in Western Europe, the local Stalinists
tried to gain power through political processes, politically-inspired strikes, and every available
means for subverting free institutions to their evil ends.

Where conditions permitted, the Soviet rulers have stimulated and aided armed insurrection
by communist-led revolutionary forces, as in Greece, Indo-China, the Philippines, and China,
or outright aggression by one of their satellites, as in Korea.

Where the forces of nationalism, independence, and economic change were at work throughout
the great sweep of Asia and Africa, the communists tried to identify themselves with the cause
of progress, tried to picture themselves as the friends of freedom and advancement--surely
one of the most cynical efforts of which history offers record.

Thus, everywhere in the free world, the communists seek to fish in troubled waters, to seize
more countries, to enslave more millions of human souls. They were, and are, ready to ally
themselves with any group, from the extreme left to the extreme right, that offers them an
opportunity to advance their ends.

Geography gives them a central position. They are both a European and an Asian power, with
borders touching many of the most sensitive and vital areas in the free world around them.
So situated, they can use their armies and their economic power to set up simultaneously a
whole series of threats--or inducements--to such widely dispersed places as Western Germany,
Iran, and Japan. These pressures and attractions can be sustained at will, or quickly shifted
from place to place.

Thus the communist rulers are moving, with implacable will, to create greater strength in their
vast empire, and to create weakness and division in the free world, preparing for the time
their false creed teaches them must come: the time when the whole world outside their sway
will be so torn by strife and contradictions that it will be ripe for the communist plucking.

This is the heart of the distorted Marxist interpretation of history. This is the glass through
which Moscow and Peiping look out upon the world, the glass through which they see the rest
of us. They seem really to believe that history is on their side. And they are trying to boost
"history" along, at every opportunity, in every way they can.

I have set forth here the nature of the communist menace confronting our Republic and the whole
free world. This is the measure of the challenge we have faced since World War II--a challenge
partly military and partly economic, partly moral and partly intellectual, confronting us at
every level of human endeavor and all around the world.

It has been and must be the free world's purpose not only to organize defenses against aggression
and subversion, not only to build a structure of resistance and salvation for the community
of nations outside the iron curtain, but in addition to give expression and opportunity to
the forces of growth and progress in the free world, to so organize and unify the cooperative
community of free men that we will not crumble but grow stronger over the years, and the Soviet
empire, not the free world, will eventually have to change its ways or fall.

Our whole program of action to carry out this purpose has been directed to meet two requirements.

The first of these had to do with security. Like the pioneers who settled this great continent
of ours, we have had to carry a musket while we went about our peaceful business. We realized
that if we and our allies did not have military strength to meet the growing Soviet military
threat, we would never have the opportunity to carry forward our efforts to build a peaceful
world of law and order--the only environment in which our free institutions could survive and
flourish.

Did this mean we had to drop everything else and concentrate on armies and weapons? Of course
it did not: side-by-side with this urgent military requirement, we had to continue to help
create conditions of economic and social progress in the world. This work had to be carried
forward alongside the first, not only in order to meet the non-military aspects of the communist
drive for power, but also because this creative effort toward human progress is essential to
bring about the kind of world we as free men want to live in.

These two requirements--military security and human progress--are more closely related in action
than we sometimes recognize. Military security depends upon a strong economic underpinning
and a stable and hopeful political order; conversely, the confidence that makes for economic
and political progress does not thrive in areas that are vulnerable to military conquest.

These requirements are related in another way. Both of them depend upon unity of action among
the free nations of the world. This, indeed, has been the foundation of our whole effort, for
the drawing together of the free people of the world has become a condition essential not only
to their progress, but to their survival as free people.

This is the conviction that underlies all the steps we have been taking to strengthen and unify
the free nations during the past seven years.

What have these steps been? First of all, how have we gone about meeting the requirement of
providing for our security against this world-wide challenge?

Our starting point, as I have said on many occasions, has been and remains the United Nations.

We were prepared, and so were the other nations of the free world, to place our reliance on
the machinery of the United Nations to safeguard peace. But before the United Nations could
give full expression to the concept of international security embodied in the Charter, it was
essential that the five permanent members of the Security Council honor their solemn pledge
to cooperate to that end. This the Soviet Union has not done.

I do not need to outline here the dreary record of Soviet obstruction and veto and the unceasing
efforts of the Soviet representatives to sabotage the United Nations. It is important, however,
to distinguish clearly between the principle of collective security embodied in the Charter
and the mechanisms of the United Nations to give that principle effect. We must frankly recognize
that the Soviet Union has been able, in certain instances, to stall the machinery of collective
security. Yet it has not been able to impair the principle of collective security. The free
nations of the world have retained their allegiance to that idea. They have found the means
to act despite the Soviet veto, both through the United Nations itself and through the application
of this principle in regional and other security arrangements that are fully in harmony with
the Charter and give expression to its purposes.

The free world refused to resign itself to collective suicide merely because of the technicality
of a Soviet veto.

The principle of collective measures to forestall aggression has found expression in the Treaty
of Rio de Janeiro, the North Atlantic Treaty, now extended to include Greece and Turkey, and
the several treaties we have concluded to reinforce security in the Pacific area.

But the free nations have not this time fallen prey to the dangerous illusion that treaties
alone will stop an aggressor. By a series of vigorous actions, as varied as the nature of the
threat, the free nations have successfully thwarted aggression or the threat of aggression
in many different parts of the world.

Our country has led or supported these collective measures. The aid we have given to people
determined to act in defense of their freedom has often spelled the difference between success
and failure.

We all know what we have done, and I shall not review in detail the steps we have taken. Each
major step was a milepost in the developing unity, strength and resolute will of the free nations.

The first was the determined and successful effort made through the United Nations to safeguard
the integrity and independence of Iran in 1945 and 1946.

Next was our aid and support to embattled Greece, which enabled her to defeat the forces threatening
her national independence.

In Turkey, cooperative action resulted in building up a bulwark of military strength for an
area vital to the defenses of the entire free world.

In 1949, we began furnishing military aid to our partners in the North Atlantic Community and
to a number of other free countries.

The Soviet Union's threats against Germany and Japan, its neighbors to the West and to the
East, have been successfully withstood. Free Germany is on its way to becoming a member of
the peaceful community of nations, and a partner in the common defense. The Soviet effort to
capture Berlin by blockade was thwarted by the courageous Allied airlift. An independent and
democratic Japan has been brought back into the community of free nations.

In the Far East, the tactics of communist imperialism have reached heights of violence unmatched
elsewhere--and the problem of concerted action by the free nations has been at once more acute
and more difficult.

Here, in spite of outside aid and support, the free government of China succumbed to the communist
assault. Our aid has enabled the free Chinese to rebuild and strengthen their forces on the
island of Formosa. In other areas of the Far East-in Indo-China, Malaya, and the Philippines--our
assistance has helped sustain a staunch resistance against communist insurrectionary attacks.

The supreme test, up to this point, of the will and determination of the free nations came
in Korea, when communist forces invaded the Republic of Korea, a state that was in a special
sense under the protection of the United Nations. The response was immediate and resolute.
Under our military leadership, the free nations for the first time took up arms, collectively,
to repel aggression.

Aggression was repelled, driven back, punished. Since that time, communist strategy has seen
fit to prolong the conflict, in spite of honest efforts by the United Nations to reach an honorable
truce. The months of deadlock have demonstrated that the communists cannot achieve by persistence,
or by diplomatic trickery, what they failed to achieve by sneak attack. Korea has demonstrated
that the free world has the will and the endurance to match the communist effort to overthrow
international order through local aggression.

It has been a bitter struggle and it has cost us much in brave lives and human suffering, but
it has made it plain that the free nations will fight side by side, that they will not succumb
to aggression or intimidation, one by one. This, in the final analysis, is the only way to
halt the communist drive to world power.

At the heart of the free world's defense is the military strength of the United States.

From 1945 to 1949, the United States was sole possessor of the atomic bomb. That was a great
deterrent and protection in itself.

But when the Soviets produced an atomic explosion--as they were bound to do in time--we had
to broaden the whole basis of our strength. We had to endeavor to keep our lead in atomic weapons.
We had to strengthen our armed forces generally and to enlarge our productive capacity-our
mobilization base. Historically, it was the Soviet atomic explosion in the fall of 1949, nine
months before the aggression in Korea, which stimulated the planning for our program of defense
mobilization.

What we needed was not just a central force that could strike back against aggression. We also
needed strength along the outer edges of the free world, defenses for our allies as well as
for ourselves, strength to hold the line against attack as well as to retaliate.

We have made great progress on this task of building strong defenses. In the last two and one
half years, we have more than doubled our own defenses, and we have helped to increase the
protection of nearly all the other free nations.

All the measures of collective security, resistance to aggression, and the building of defenses,
constitute the first requirement for the survival and progress of the free world. But, as I
have pointed out, they are interwoven with the necessity of taking steps to create and maintain
economic and social progress in the free nations. There can be no military strength except
where there is economic capacity to back it. There can be no freedom where there is economic
chaos or social collapse. For these reasons, our national policy has included a wide range
of economic measures.

In Europe, the grand design of the Marshall Plan permitted the people of Britain and France
and Italy and a half dozen other countries, with help from the United States, to lift themselves
from stagnation and find again the path of rising production, rising incomes, rising standards
of living. The situation was changed almost overnight by the Marshall Plan; the people of Europe
have a renewed hope and vitality, and they are able to carry a share of the military defense
of the free world that would have been impossible a few years ago.

Now the countries of Europe are moving rapidly towards political and economic unity, changing
the map of Europe in more hopeful ways than it has been changed for 500 years. Customs unions,
European economic institutions like the Schuman Plan, the movement toward European political
integration, the European Defense Community-all are signs of practical and effective growth
toward greater common strength and unity. The countries of Western Europe, including the free
Republic of Germany are working together, and the whole free world is the gainer.

It sometimes happens, in the course of history, that steps taken to meet an immediate necessity
serve an ultimate purpose greater than may be apparent at the time. This, I believe, is the
meaning of what has been going on in Europe under the threat of aggression. The free nations
there, with our help, have been drawing together in defense of their free institutions. In
so doing, they have laid the foundations of a unity that will endure as a major creative force
beyond the exigencies of this period of history. We may, at this close range, be but dimly
aware of the creative surge this movement represents, but I believe it to be of historic importance.
I believe its benefits will survive long after communist tyranny is nothing but an unhappy memory.

In Asia and Africa, the economic and social problems are different but no less urgent. There
hundreds of millions of people are in ferment, exploding into the twentieth century, thrusting
toward equality and independence and improvement in the hard conditions of their lives.

Politically, economically, socially, things cannot and will not stay in their pre-war mold
in Africa and Asia. Change must come--is coming--fast. Just in the years I have been President,
12 free nations, with more than 600 million people, have become independent: Burma, Indonesia,
the Philippines, Korea, Israel, Libya, India, Pakistan and Ceylon, and the three Associated
States of Indo-China, now members of the French Union. These names alone are testimony to the
sweep of the great force which is changing the face of half the world.

Working out new relationships among the peoples of the free world would not be easy in the
best of times. Even if there were no Communist drive for expansion, there would be hard and
complex problems of transition from old social forms, old political arrangements, old economic
institutions to the new ones our century demands--problems of guiding change into constructive
channels, of helping new nations grow strong and stable. But now, with the Soviet rulers striving
to exploit this ferment for their own purposes, the task has become harder and more urgent--terribly
urgent.

In this situation, we see the meaning and the importance of the Point IV program, through which
we can share our store of know-how and of capital to help these people develop their economies
and reshape their societies. As we help Iranians to raise more grain, Indians to reduce the
incidence of malaria, Liberians to educate their children better, we are at once helping to
answer the desires of the people for advancement, and demonstrating the superiority of freedom
over communism. There will be no quick solution for any of the difficulties of the new nations
of Asia and Africa--but there may be no solution at all if we do not press forward with full
energy to help these countries grow and flourish in freedom and in cooperation with the rest
of the free world.

Our measures of economic policy have already had a tremendous effect on the course of events.
Eight years ago, the Kremlin thought post-war collapse in Western Europe and Japan--with economic
dislocation in America--might give them the signal to advance. We demonstrated they were wrong.
Now they wait with hope that the economic recovery of the free world has set the stage for
violent and disastrous rivalry among the economically developed nations, struggling for each
other's markets and a greater share of trade. Here is another test that we shall have to meet
and master in the years immediately ahead. And it will take great ingenuity and effort--and
much time--before we prove the Kremlin wrong again. But we can do it. It is true that economic
recovery presents its problems, as does economic decline, but they are problems of another
order. They are the problems of distributing abundance fairly, and they can be solved by the
process of international cooperation that has already brought us so far.

These are the measures we must continue. This is the path we must follow. We must go on, working
with our free associates, building an international structure for military defense, and for
economic, social, and political progress. We must be prepared for war, because war may be thrust
upon us. But the stakes in our search for peace are immensely higher than they have ever been
before.

For now we have entered the atomic age, and war has undergone a technological change which
makes it a very different thing from what it used to be. War today between the Soviet empire
and the free nations might dig the grave not only of our Stalinist opponents, but of our own
society, our world as well as theirs.

This transformation has been brought to pass in the seven years from Alamogordo to Eniwetok.
It is only seven years, but the new force of atomic energy has turned the world into a very
different kind of place.

Science and technology have worked so fast that war's new meaning may not yet be grasped by
all the .peoples who would be its victims; nor, perhaps, by the rulers in the Kremlin. But
I have been President of the United States, these seven years, responsible for the decisions
which have brought our science and our engineering to their present place. I know what this
development means now. I know something of what it will come to mean in the future.

We in this Government realized, even before the first successful atomic explosion, that this
new force spelled terrible danger for all mankind unless it were brought under international
control. We promptly advanced proposals in the United Nations to take this new source of energy
out of the arena of national rivalries, to make it impossible to use it as a weapon of war.
These proposals, so pregnant with benefit for all humanity, were rebuffed by the rulers of
the Soviet Union.

The language of science is universal, the movement of science is always forward into the unknown.
We could not assume that the Soviet Union would not develop the same weapon, regardless of
all our precautions, nor that there were not other and even more terrible means of destruction
lying in the unexplored field of atomic energy.

We had no alternative, then, but to press on, to probe the secrets of atomic power to the uttermost
of our capacity, to maintain, if we could, our initial superiority in the atomic field. At
the same time, we sought persistently for some avenue, some formula, for reaching an agreement
with the Soviet rulers that would place this new form of power under effective restraints--that
would guarantee no nation would use it in war. I do not have to recount here the proposals
we made, the steps taken in the United Nations, striving at least to open a way to ultimate
agreement. I hope and believe that we will continue to make these efforts so long as there
is the slightest possibility of progress. All civilized nations are agreed on the urgency of
the problem, and have shown their willingness to agree on effective measures of control--all
save the Soviet Union and its satellites. But they have rejected every reasonable proposal.

Meanwhile, the progress of scientific experiment has outrun our expectations. Atomic science
is in the full tide of development; the unfolding of the innermost secrets of matter is uninterrupted
and irresistible. Since Alamogordo we have developed atomic weapons with many times the explosive
force of the early models, and we have produced them in substantial quantities. And recently,
in the thermonuclear tests at Eniwetok, we have entered another stage in the world-shaking
development of atomic energy. From now on, man moves into a new era of destructive power, capable
of creating explosions of a new order of magnitude, dwarfing the mushroom clouds of Hiroshima
and Nagasaki.

We have no reason to think that the stage we have now reached in the release of atomic energy
will be the last. Indeed, the speed of our scientific and technical progress over the last
seven years shows no signs of abating. We are being hurried forward, in our mastery of the
atom, from one discovery to another, toward yet unforeseeable peaks of destructive power.

Inevitably, until we can reach international agreement, this is the path we must follow. And
we must realize that no advance we make is unattainable by others, that no advantage in this
race can be more than temporary.

The war of the future would be one in which man could extinguish millions of lives at one blow,
demolish the great cities of the world, wipe out the cultural achievements of the past--and
destroy the very structure of a civilization that has been slowly and painfully built up through
hundreds of generations.

Such a war is not a possible policy for rational men. We know this, but we dare not assume
that others would not yield to the temptation science is now placing in their hands.

With that in mind, there is something I would say, to Stalin: You claim belief in Lenin's prophecy
that one stage in the development of communist society would be war between your world and
ours. But Lenin was a pre-atomic man, who viewed society and history with pre-atomic eyes.
Something profound has happened since he wrote. War has changed its shape and its dimension.
It cannot now be a "stage" in the development of anything save ruin for your regime and your
homeland.

I do not know how much time may elapse before the communist rulers bring themselves to recognize
this truth. But when they do, they will find us eager to reach understandings that will protect
the world from the danger it faces today.

It is no wonder that some people wish that we had never succeeded in splitting the atom. But
atomic power, like any other force of nature, is not evil in itself. Properly used, it is an
instrumentality for human betterment. As a source of power, as a tool of scientific inquiry,
it has untold possibilities. We are already making good progress in the constructive use of
atomic power. We could do much more if we were free to concentrate on its peaceful uses exclusively.

Atomic power will be with us all the days of our lives. We cannot legislate it out of existence.
We cannot ignore the dangers or the benefits it offers.

I believe that man can harness the forces of the atom to work for the improvement of the lot
of human beings everywhere. That is our goal. As a nation, as a people, we must understand
this problem, we must handle this new force wisely through our democratic processes. Above
all, we must strive, in all earnestness and good faith, to bring it under effective international
control. To do this will require much wisdom and patience and firmness. The awe-inspiring responsibility
in this field now falls on a new Administration and a new Congress. I will give them my support,
as I am sure all our citizens will, in whatever constructive steps they may take to make this
newest of man's discoveries a source of good and not of ultimate destruction.

We cannot tell when or whether the attitude of the Soviet rulers may change. We do not know
how long it may be before they show a willingness to negotiate effective control of atomic
energy and honorable settlements of other world problems. We cannot measure how deep-rooted
are the Kremlin's illusions about us. We can be sure, however, that the rulers of the communist
world will not change their basic objectives lightly or soon.

The communist rulers have a sense of time about these things wholly unlike our own. We tend
to divide our future into short spans, like the two-year life of this Congress, or the four
years of the next Presidential term. They seem to think and plan in terms of generations. And
there is, therefore, no easy, short-run way to make them see that their plans cannot prevail.

This means there is ahead of us a long hard test of strength and stamina, between the free
world and the communist domain-our politics and our economy, our science and technology against
the best they can do--our liberty against their slavery--our voluntary concert Of free nations
against their forced amalgam of "people's republics"--our strategy against their strategy-our
nerve against their nerve.

Above all, this is a test of the will and the steadiness of the people of the United States.

There has been no challenge like this in the history of our Republic. We are called upon to
rise to the occasion, as no people before us.

What is required of us is not easy. The way we must learn to live, the world we have to live
in, cannot be so pleasant, safe or simple as most of us have known before, or confidently hoped
to know.

Already we have had to sacrifice a number of accustomed ways of working and of living, much
nervous energy, material resources, even human life. Yet if one thing is certain in our future,
it is that more sacrifice still lies ahead.

Were we to grow discouraged now, were we to weaken and slack off, the whole structure we have
built, these past eight years, would come apart and fall away. Never then, no matter by what
stringent means, could our free world regain the ground, the time, the sheer momentum, lost
by such a move. There can and should be changes and improvements in our programs, to meet new
situations, serve new needs. But to desert the spirit of our basic policies, to step back from
them now, would surely start the free world's slide toward the darkness that the communists
have prophesied-toward the moment for which they watch and wait.

If we value our freedom and our way of life and want to see them safe, we must meet the challenge
and accept its implications, stick to our guns and carry out our policies.

I have set out the basic conditions, as I see them, under which we have been working in the
world, and the nature of our basic policies. What, then, of the future? The answer, I believe,
is this: As we continue to confound Soviet expectations, as our world grows stronger, more
united, more attractive to men on both sides of the iron curtain, then inevitably there will
come a time of change within the communist world. We do not know how that change will come
about, whether by deliberate decision in the Kremlin, by coup d'etat, by revolution, by defection
of satellites, or perhaps by some unforeseen combination of factors such as these.

But if the communist rulers understand they cannot win by war, and if we frustrate their attempts
to win by subversion, it is not too much to expect their world to change its character, moderate
its aims, become more realistic and less implacable, and recede from the cold war they began.

Do not be deceived by the strong face, the look of monolithic power that the communist dictators
wear before the outside world. Remember their power has no basis in consent. Remember they
are so afraid of the free world's ideas and ways of life, they do not dare to let their people
know about them. Think of the massive effort they put forth to try to stop our Campaign of
Truth from reaching their people with its message of freedom.

The masters of the Kremlin live in fear their power and position would collapse were their
own people to acquire knowledge, information, comprehension about our free society. Their world
has many elements of strength, but this one fatal flaw: the weakness represented by their iron
curtain and their police state. Surely, a social order at once so insecure and so fearful,
must ultimately lose its competition with our free society.

Provided just one thing--and this I urge you to consider carefully--provided that the free
world retains the confidence and the determination to outmatch the best our adversary can accomplish
and to demonstrate for uncertain millions on both sides of the iron curtain the superiority
of the free way of life.

That is the test upon all the free nations; upon none more than our own Republic.

Our resources are equal to the task. We have the industry, the skills, the basic economic strength.
Above all, we have the vigor of free men in a free society. We have our liberties. And while
we keep them, while we retain our democratic faith, the ultimate advantage in this hard competition
lies with us, not with the communists.

But there are some things that could shift the advantage to their side. One of the things that
could defeat us is fear--fear of the task we face, fear of adjusting to it, fear that breeds
more fear, sapping our faith, corroding our liberties, turning citizen against citizen, ally
against ally. Fear could snatch away the very values we are striving to defend.

Already the danger signals have gone up. Already the corrosive process has begun. And every
diminution of our tolerance, each new act of enforced conformity, each idle accusation, each
demonstration of hysteria-each new restrictive law--is one more sign that we can lose the battle
against fear.

The communists cannot deprive us of our liberties--fear can. The communists cannot stamp out
our faith in human dignity-fear can. Fear is an enemy within ourselves, and if we do not root
it out, it may destroy the very way of life we are so anxious to protect.

To beat back fear, we must hold fast to our heritage as free men. We must renew our confidence
in one another, our tolerance, our sense of being neighbors, fellow citizens. We must take
our stand on the Bill of Rights. The inquisition, the star chamber, have no place in a free
society.

Our ultimate strength lies, not alone in arms, but in the sense of moral values and moral truths
that give meaning and vitality to the purposes of free people. These values are our faith,
our inspiration, the source of our strength and our indomitable determination.

We face hard tasks, great dangers. But we are Americans and we have faced hardships and uncertainty
before, we have adjusted before to changing circumstances. Our whole history has been a steady
training for the work it is now ours to do.

No one can lose heart for the task, none can lose faith in our free ways, who stops to remember
where we began, what we have sought, and what accomplished, all together as Americans.

I have lived a long time and seen much happen in our country. And I know out of my own experience,
that we can do what must be done.

When I think back to the country I grew up in--and then look at what our country has become--I
am quite certain that having done so much, we can do more.

After all, it has been scarcely fifteen years since most Americans rejected out-of-hand the
wise counsel that aggressors must be "quarantined". The very concept of collective security,
the foundation-stone of all our actions now, was then strange doctrine, shunned and set aside.
Talk about adapting; talk about adjusting; talk about responding as a people to the challenge
of changed times and circumstances--there has never been a more spectacular example than this
great change in America's outlook on the world.

Let all of us pause now, think back, consider carefully the meaning of our national experience.
Let us draw comfort from it and faith, and confidence in our future as Americans.

The Nation's business is never finished. The basic questions we have been dealing with, these
eight years past, present themselves anew. That is the way of our society. Circumstances change
and current questions take on different forms, new complications, year by year. But underneath,
the great issues remain the same--prosperity, welfare, human rights, effective democracy, and
above all, peace.

Now we turn to the inaugural of our new President. And in the great work he is called upon
to do he will have need for the support of a united people, a confident people, with firm faith
in one another and in our common cause. I pledge him my support as a citizen of our Republic,
and I ask you to give him yours.

To him, to you, to all my fellow citizens, I say, Godspeed.

May God bless our country and our cause.

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower February 2, 1953

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Eighty-third Congress:

I welcome the honor of appearing before you to deliver my first message to the Congress.

It is manifestly the joint purpose of the congressional leadership and of this administration
to justify the summons to governmental responsibility issued last November by the American
people. The grand labors of this leadership will involve:

Application of America's influence in world affairs with such fortitude and such foresight
that it will deter aggression and eventually secure peace;

Establishment of a national administration of such integrity and such efficiency that its honor
at home will ensure respect abroad;

Encouragement of those incentives that inspire creative initiative in our economy, so that
its productivity may fortify freedom everywhere; and

Dedication to the well-being of all our citizens and to the attainment of equality of opportunity
for all, so that our Nation will ever act with the strength of unity in every task to which
it is called.

The purpose of this message is to suggest certain lines along which our joint efforts may immediately
be directed toward realization of these four ruling purposes.

The time that this administration has been in office has been too brief to permit preparation
of a detailed and comprehensive program of recommended action to cover all phases of the responsibilities
that devolve upon our country's new leaders. Such a program will be filled out in the weeks
ahead as, after appropriate study, I shall submit additional recommendations for your consideration.
Today can provide only a sure and substantial beginning.

II.

Our country has come through a painful period of trial and disillusionment since the victory
of 1945. We anticipated a world of peace and cooperation. The calculated pressures of aggressive
communism have forced us, instead, to live in a world of turmoil.

From this costly experience we have learned one clear lesson. We have learned that the free
world cannot indefinitely remain in a posture of paralyzed tension, leaving forever to the
aggressor the choice of time and place and means to cause greatest hurt to us at least cost
to himself.

This administration has, therefore, begun the definition of a new, positive foreign policy.
This policy will be governed by certain fixed ideas. They are these:

(1) Our foreign policy must be clear, consistent, and confident. This means that it must be
the product of genuine, continuous cooperation between the executive and the legislative branches
of this Government. It must be developed and directed in the spirit of true bipartisanship.

(2) The policy we embrace must be a coherent global policy. The freedom we cherish and defend
in Europe and in the Americas is no different from the freedom that is imperiled in Asia.

(3) Our policy, dedicated to making the free world secure, will envision all peaceful methods
and devices--except breaking faith with our friends. We shall never acquiesce in the enslavement
of any people in order to purchase fancied gain for ourselves. I shall ask the Congress at
a later date to join in an appropriate resolution making clear that this Government recognizes
no kind of commitment contained in secret understandings of the past with foreign governments
which permit this kind of enslavement.

(4) The policy we pursue will recognize the truth that no single country, even one so powerful
as ours, can alone defend the liberty of all nations threatened by Communist aggression from
without or subversion within. Mutual security means effective mutual cooperation. For the United
States, this means that, as a matter of common sense and national interest, we shall give help
to other nations in the measure that they strive earnestly to do their full share of the common
task. No wealth of aid could compensate for poverty of spirit. The heart of every free nation
must be honestly dedicated to the preserving of its own independence and security.

(5) Our policy will be designed to foster the advent of practical unity in Western Europe.
The nations of that region have contributed notably to the effort of sustaining the security
of the free world. From the jungles of Indochina and Malaya to the northern shores of Europe,
they have vastly improved their defensive strength. Where called upon to do so, they have made
costly and bitter sacrifices to hold the line of freedom.

But the problem of security demands closer cooperation among the nations of Europe than has
been known to date. Only a more closely integrated economic and political system can provide
the greatly increased economic strength needed to maintain both necessary military readiness
and respectable living standards.

Europe's enlightened leaders have long been aware of these facts. All the devoted work that
has gone into the Schuman plan, the European Army, and the Strasbourg Conference has testified
to their vision and determination. These achievements are the more remarkable when we realize
that each of them has marked a victory--for France and for Germany alike over the divisions
that in the past have brought such tragedy to these two great nations and to the world.

The needed unity of Western Europe manifestly cannot be manufactured from without; it can only
be created from within. But it is right and necessary that we encourage Europe's leaders by
informing them of the high value we place upon the earnestness of their efforts toward this
goal. Real progress will be conclusive evidence to the American people that our material sacrifices
in the cause of collective security are matched by essential political, economic, and military
accomplishments in Western Europe.

(6) Our foreign policy will recognize the importance of profitable and equitable world trade.

A substantial beginning can and should be made by our friends themselves. Europe, for example,
is now marked by checkered areas of labor surplus and labor shortage, of agricultural areas
needing machines and industrial areas needing food. Here and elsewhere we can hope that our
friends will take the initiative in creating broader markets and more dependable currencies,
to allow greater exchange of goods and services among themselves.

Action along these lines can create an economic environment that will invite vital help from us.

This help includes:

First: Revising our customs regulations to remove procedural obstacles to profitable trade.
I further recommend that the Congress take the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act under immediate
study and extend it by appropriate legislation. This objective must not ignore legitimate safeguarding
of domestic industries, agriculture, and labor standards. In all executive study and recommendations
on this problem labor and management and farmers alike will be earnestly consulted.

Second: Doing whatever Government properly can to encourage the flow of private American investment
abroad. This involves, as a serious and explicit purpose of our foreign policy, the encouragement
of a hospitable climate for such investment in foreign nations.

Third: Availing ourselves of facilities overseas for the economical production of manufactured
articles which are needed for mutual defense and which are not seriously competitive with our
own normal peacetime production.

Fourth: Receiving from the rest of the world, in equitable exchange for what we supply, greater
amounts of important raw materials which we do not ourselves possess in adequate quantities.

III.

In this general discussion of our foreign policy, I must make special mention of the war in Korea.

This war is, for Americans, the most painful phase of Communist aggression throughout the world.
It is clearly a part of the same calculated assault that the aggressor is simultaneously pressing
in Indochina and in Malaya, and of the strategic situation that manifestly embraces the island
of Formosa and the Chinese Nationalist forces there. The working out of any military solution
to the Korean war will inevitably affect all these areas.

The administration is giving immediate increased attention to the development of additional
Republic of Korea forces. The citizens of that country have proved their capacity as fighting
men and their eagerness to take a greater share in the defense of their homeland. Organization,
equipment, and training will allow them to do so. Increased assistance to Korea for this purpose
conforms fully to our global policies.

In June 1950, following the aggressive attack on the Republic of Korea, the United States Seventh
Fleet was instructed both to prevent attack upon Formosa and also to insure that Formosa should
not be used as a base of operations against the Chinese Communist mainland.

This has meant, in effect, that the United States Navy was required to serve as a defensive
arm of Communist China. Regardless of the situation in 1950, since the date of that order the
Chinese Communists have invaded Korea to attack the United Nations forces there. They have
consistently rejected the proposals of the United Nations Command for an armistice. They recently
joined with Soviet Russia in rejecting the armistice proposal sponsored in the United Nations
by the Government of India. This proposal had been accepted by the United States and 53 other
nations.

Consequently there is no longer any logic or sense in a condition that required the United
States Navy to assume defensive responsibilities on behalf of the Chinese Communists, thus
permitting those Communists, with greater impunity, to kill our soldiers and those of our United
Nations allies in Korea.

I am, therefore, issuing instructions that the Seventh Fleet no longer be employed to shield
Communist China. This order implies no aggressive intent on our part. But we certainly have
no obligation to protect a nation fighting us in Korea.

IV.

Our labor for peace in Korea and in the world imperatively demands the maintenance by the United
States of a strong fighting service ready for any contingency.

Our problem is to achieve adequate military strength within the limits of endurable strain
upon our economy. To amass military power without regard to our economic capacity would be
to defend ourselves against one kind of disaster by inviting another.

Both military and economic objectives demand a single national military policy, proper coordination
of our armed services, and effective consolidation of certain logistics activities.

We must eliminate waste and duplication of effort in the armed services.

We must realize clearly that size alone is not sufficient. The biggest force is not necessarily
the best--and we want the best.

We must not let traditions or habits of the past stand in the way of developing an efficient
military force. All members of our forces must be ever mindful that they serve under a single
flag and for a single cause.

We must effectively integrate our armament programs and plan them in such careful relation
to our industrial facilities that we assure the best use of our manpower and our materials.

Because of the complex technical nature of our military organization and because of the security
reasons involved, the Secretary of Defense must take the initiative and assume the responsibility
for developing plans to give our Nation maximum safety at minimum cost. Accordingly, the new
Secretary of Defense and his civilian and military associates will, in the future, recommend
such changes in present laws affecting our defense activities as may be necessary to clarify
responsibilities and improve the total effectiveness of our defense effort.

This effort must always conform to policies laid down in the National Security Council.

The statutory function of the National Security Council is to assist the President in the formulation
and coordination of significant domestic, foreign, and military policies required for the security
of the Nation. In these days of tension it is essential that this central body have the vitality
to perform effectively its statutory role. I propose to see that it does so.

Careful formulation of policies must be followed by clear understanding of them by all peoples.
A related need, therefore, is to make more effective all activities of the Government related
to international information.

I have recently appointed a committee of representative and informed citizens to survey this
subject and to make recommendations in the near future for legislative, administrative, or
other action.

A unified and dynamic effort in this whole field is essential to the security of the United
States and of the other peoples in the community of free nations. There is but one sure way
to avoid total war--and that is to win the cold war.

While retaliatory power is one strong deterrent to a would-be aggressor, another powerful deterrent
is defensive power. No enemy is likely to attempt an attack foredoomed to failure.

Because the building of a completely impenetrable defense against attack is still not possible,
total defensive strength must include civil defense preparedness. Because we have incontrovertible
evidence that Soviet Russia possesses atomic weapons, this kind of protection becomes sheer
necessity.

Civil defense responsibilities primarily belong to the State and local governments--recruiting,
training, and organizing volunteers to meet any emergency. The immediate job of the Federal
Government is to provide leadership, to supply technical guidance, and to continue to strengthen
its civil defense stockpile of medical, engineering, and related supplies and equipment. This
work must go forward without lag.

V.

I have referred to the inescapable need for economic health and strength if we are to maintain
adequate military power and exert influential leadership for peace in the world.

Our immediate task is to chart a fiscal and economic policy that can:

(1) Reduce the planned deficits and then balance the budget, which means, among other things,
reducing Federal expenditures to the safe minimum;

(2) Meet the huge costs of our defense;

(3) Properly handle the burden of our inheritance of debt and obligations;

(4) Check the menace of inflation;

(5) Work toward the earliest possible reduction of the tax burden;

(6) Make constructive plans to encourage the initiative of our citizens.

It is important that all of us understand that this administration does not and cannot begin
its task with a clean slate. Much already has been written on the record, beyond our power
quickly to erase or to amend. This record includes our inherited burden of indebtedness and
obligations and deficits.

The current year's budget, as you know, carries a 5.9 billion dollar deficit; and the budget,
which was presented to you before this administration took office, indicates a budgetary deficit
of 9.9 billion for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1954. The national debt is now more than
265 billion dollars. In addition, the accumulated obligational authority of the Federal Government
for future payment totals over 80 billion dollars. Even this amount is exclusive of large contingent
liabilities, so numerous and extensive as to be almost beyond description.

The bills for the payment of nearly all of the 80 billion dollars of obligations will be presented
during the next 4 years. These bills, added to the current costs of government we must meet,
make a formidable burden.

The present authorized Government-debt limit is 275 billion dollars. The forecast presented
by the outgoing administration with the fiscal year 1954 budget indicates that--before the
end of the fiscal year and at the peak of demand for payments during the year--the total Government
debt may approach and even exceed that limit. Unless budgeted deficits are checked, the momentum
of past programs will force an increase of the statutory debt limit.

Permit me this one understatement: to meet and to correct this situation will not be easy.

Permit me this one assurance: every department head and I are determined to do everything we
can to resolve it.

The first order of business is the elimination of the annual deficit. This cannot be achieved
merely by exhortation. It demands the concerted action of all those in responsible positions
in the Government and the earnest cooperation of the Congress.

Already, we have begun an examination of the appropriations and expenditures of all departments
in an effort to find significant items that may be decreased or canceled without damage to
our essential requirements.

Getting control of the budget requires also that State and local governments and interested
groups of citizens restrain themselves in their demands upon the Congress that the Federal
Treasury spend more and more money for all types of projects.

A balanced budget is an essential first measure in checking further depreciation in the buying
power of the dollar. This is one of the critical steps to be taken to bring an end to planned
inflation. Our purpose is to manage the Government's finances so as to help and not hinder
each family in balancing its own budget.

Reduction of taxes will be justified only as we show we can succeed in bringing the budget
under control. As the budget is balanced and inflation checked, the tax burden that today stifles
initiative can and must be eased.

Until we can determine the extent to which expenditures can be reduced, it would not be wise
to reduce our revenues.

Meanwhile, the tax structure as a whole demands review. The Secretary of the Treasury is undertaking
this study immediately. We must develop a system of taxation which will impose the least possible
obstacle to the dynamic growth of the country. This includes particularly real opportunity
for the growth of small businesses. Many readjustments in existing taxes will be necessary
to serve these objectives and also to remove existing inequities. Clarification and simplification
in the tax laws as well as the regulations will be undertaken.

In the entire area of fiscal policy--which must, in its various aspects, be treated in recommendations
to the Congress in coming weeks--there can now be stated certain basic facts and principles.

First. It is axiomatic that our economy is a highly complex and sensitive mechanism. Hasty
and ill-considered action of any kind could seriously upset the subtle equation that encompasses
debts, obligations, expenditures, defense demands, deficits, taxes, and the general economic
health of the Nation. Our goals can be clear, our start toward them can be immediate--but action
must be gradual.

Second. It is clear that too great a part of the national debt comes due in too short a time.
The Department of the Treasury will undertake at suitable times a program of extending part
of the debt over longer periods and gradually placing greater amounts in the hands of longer-term
investors.

Third. Past differences in policy between the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board have helped
to encourage inflation. Henceforth, I expect that their single purpose shall be to serve the
whole Nation by policies designed to stabilize the economy and encourage the free play of our
people's genius for individual initiative.

In encouraging this initiative, no single item in our current problems has received more thoughtful
consideration by my associates, and by the many individuals called into our counsels, than
the matter of price and wage control by law.

The great economic strength of our democracy has developed in an atmosphere of freedom. The
character of our people resists artificial and arbitrary controls of any kind. Direct controls,
except those on credit, deal not with the real causes of inflation but only with its symptoms.
In times of national emergency, this kind of control has a role to play. Our whole system,
however, is based upon the assumption that, normally, we should combat wide fluctuations in
our price structure by relying largely on the effective use of sound fiscal and monetary policy,
and upon the natural workings of economic law.

Moreover, American labor and American business can best resolve their wage problems across
the bargaining table. Government should refrain from sitting in with them unless, in extreme
cases, the public welfare requires protection.

We are, of course, living in an international situation that is neither an emergency demanding
full mobilization, nor is it peace. No one can know how long this condition will persist. Consequently,
we are forced to learn many new things as we go along-clinging to what works, discarding what
does not.

In all our current discussions on these and related facts, the weight of evidence is clearly
against the use of controls in their present forms. They have proved largely unsatisfactory
or unworkable. They have not prevented inflation; they have not kept down the cost of living.
Dissatisfaction with them is wholly justified. I am convinced that now--as well as in the long
run--free and competitive prices will best serve the interests of all the people, and best
meet the changing, growing needs of our economy.

Accordingly, I do not intend to ask for a renewal of the present wage and price controls on
April 30, 1953, when present legislation expires. In the meantime, steps will be taken to eliminate
controls in an orderly manner, and to terminate special agencies no longer needed for this
purpose. It is obviously to be expected that the removal of these controls will result in individual
price changes--some up, some down. But a maximum of freedom in market prices as well as in
collective bargaining is characteristic of a truly free people.

I believe also that material and product controls should be ended, except with respect to defense
priorities and scarce and critical items essential for our defense. I shall recommend to the
Congress that legislation be enacted to continue authority for such remaining controls of this
type as will be necessary after the expiration of the existing statute on June 30, 1953.

I recommend the continuance of the authority for Federal control over rents in those communities
in which serious housing shortages exist. These are chiefly the so-called defense areas. In
these and all areas the Federal Government should withdraw from the control of rents as soon
as practicable. But before they are removed entirely, each legislature should have full opportunity
to take over, within its own State, responsibility for this function.

It would be idle to pretend that all our problems in this whole field of prices will solve
themselves by mere Federal withdrawal from direct controls.

We shall have to watch trends closely. If the freer functioning of our economic system, as
well as the indirect controls which can be appropriately employed, prove insufficient during
this period of strain and tension, I shall promptly ask the Congress to enact such legislation
as may be required.

In facing all these problems--wages, prices, production, tax rates, fiscal policy, deficits--everywhere
we remain constantly mindful that the time for sacrifice has not ended. But we are concerned
with the encouragement of competitive enterprise and individual initiative precisely because
we know them to be our Nation's abiding sources of strength.

VI.

Our vast world responsibility accents with urgency our people's elemental right to a government
whose clear qualities are loyalty, security, efficiency, economy, and integrity.

The safety of America and the trust of the people alike demand that the personnel of the Federal
Government be loyal in their motives and reliable in the discharge of their duties. Only a
combination of both loyalty and reliability promises genuine security.

To state this principle is easy; to apply it can be difficult. But this security we must and
shall have. By way of example, all principal new appointees to departments and agencies have
been investigated at their own request by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Confident of your understanding and cooperation, I know that the primary responsibility for
keeping out the disloyal and the dangerous rests squarely upon the executive branch. When this
branch so conducts itself as to require policing by another branch of the Government, it invites
its own disorder and confusion.

I am determined to meet this responsibility of the Executive. The heads of all executive departments
and agencies have been instructed to initiate at once effective programs of security with respect
to their personnel. The Attorney General will advise and guide the departments and agencies
in the shaping of these programs, designed at once to govern the employment of new personnel
and to review speedily any derogatory information concerning incumbent personnel.

To carry out these programs, I believe that the powers of the executive branch under existing
law are sufficient. If they should prove inadequate, the necessary legislation will be requested.

These programs will be both fair to the rights of the individual and effective for the safety
of the Nation. They will, with care and justice, apply the basic principle that public employment
is not a right but a privilege.

All these measures have two clear purposes: Their first purpose is to make certain that this
Nation's security is not jeopardized by false servants. Their second purpose is to clear the
atmosphere of that unreasoned suspicion that accepts rumor and gossip as substitutes for evidence.

Our people, of course, deserve and demand of their Federal Government more than security of
personnel. They demand, also, efficient and logical organization, true to constitutional principles.

I have already established a Committee on Government Organization. The Committee is using as
its point of departure the reports of the Hoover Commission and subsequent studies by several
independent agencies. To achieve the greater efficiency and economy which the Committee analyses
show to be possible, I ask the Congress to extend the present Government Reorganization Act
for a period of 18 months or 2 years beyond its expiration date of April 1, 1953.

There is more involved here than realigning the wheels and smoothing the gears of administrative
machinery. The Congress rightfully-expects the Executive to take the initiative in discovering
and removing outmoded functions and eliminating duplication.

One agency, for example, whose head has promised early and vigorous action to provide greater
efficiency is the Post Office. One of the oldest institutions of our Federal Government, its
service should be of the best. Its employees should merit and receive the high regard and esteem
of the citizens of the Nation. There are today in some areas of the postal service, both waste
and incompetence to be corrected. With the cooperation of the Congress, and taking advantage
of its accumulated experience in postal affairs, the Postmaster General will institute a program
directed at improving service while at the same time reducing costs and decreasing deficits.

In all departments, dedication to these basic precepts of security and efficiency, integrity,
and economy can and will produce an administration deserving of the trust the people have placed
in it.

Our people have demanded nothing less than good, efficient government. They shall get nothing less.

VII.

Vitally important are the water and minerals, public lands and standing timber, forage and
wild-life of this country. A fast-growing population will have vast future needs in these resources.
We must more than match the substantial achievements in the half-century since President Theodore
Roosevelt awakened the Nation to the problem of conservation.

This calls for a strong Federal program in the field of resource development. Its major projects
should be timed, where possible to assist in leveling off peaks and valleys in our economic
life. Soundly planned projects already initiated should be carried out. New ones will be planned
for the future.

The best natural resources program for America will not result from exclusive dependence on
Federal bureaucracy. It will involve a partnership of the States and local communities, private
citizens, and the Federal Government, all working together. This combined effort will advance
the development of the great river valleys of our Nation and the power that they can generate.
Likewise, such a partnership can be effective in the expansion throughout the Nation of upstream
storage; the sound use of public lands; the wise conservation of minerals; and the sustained
yield of our forests.

There has been much criticism, some of it apparently justified, of the confusion resulting
from overlapping Federal activities in the entire field of resource-conservation. This matter
is being exhaustively studied and appropriate reorganization plans will be developed.

Most of these particular resource problems pertain to the Department of the Interior. Another
of its major concerns is our country's island possessions. Here, one matter deserves attention.
The platforms of both political parties promised immediate statehood to Hawaii. The people
of that Territory have earned that status. Statehood should be granted promptly with the first
election scheduled for 1954.

VIII.

One of the difficult problems which face the new administration is that of the slow, irregular
decline of farm prices. This decline, which has been going on for almost 2 years, has occurred
at a time when most nonfarm prices and farm costs of production are extraordinarily high.

Present agricultural legislation provides for the mandatory support of the prices of basic
farm commodities at 90 percent of parity. The Secretary of Agriculture and his associates will,
of course, execute the present act faithfully and thereby seek to mitigate the consequences
of the downturn in farm income.

This price-support legislation will expire at the end of 1954.

So we should begin now to consider what farm legislation we should develop for 1955 and beyond.
Our aim should be economic stability and full parity of income for American farmers. But we
must seek this goal in ways that minimize governmental interference in the farmers' affairs,
that permit desirable shifts in production, and that encourage farmers themselves to use initiative
in meeting changing economic conditions.

A continuing study reveals nothing more emphatically than the complicated nature of this subject.
Among other things, it shows that the prosperity of our agriculture depends directly upon the
prosperity of the whole country--upon the purchasing power of American consumers. It depends
also upon the opportunity to ship abroad large surpluses of particular commodities, and therefore
upon sound economic relationships between the United States and many foreign countries. It
involves research and scientific investigation, conducted on an extensive scale. It involves
special credit mechanisms and marketing, rural electrification, soil conservation, and other
programs.

The whole complex of agricultural programs and policies will be studied by a Special Agricultural
Advisory Commission, as I know it will by appropriate committees of the Congress. A nonpartisan
group of respected authorities in the field of agriculture has already been appointed as an
interim advisory group.

The immediate changes needed in agricultural programs are largely budgetary and administrative
in nature. New policies and new programs must await the completion of the far-reaching studies
which have already been launched.

IX.

The determination of labor policy must be governed not by the vagaries of political expediency
but by the firmest principles and convictions. Slanted partisan appeals to American workers,
spoken as if they were a group apart, necessitating a special language and treatment, are an
affront to the fullness of their dignity as American citizens.

The truth in matters of labor policy has become obscured in controversy. The very meaning of
economic freedom as it affects labor has become confused. This misunderstanding has provided
a climate of opinion favoring the growth of governmental paternalism in labor relations. This
tendency, if left uncorrected, could end only by producing a bureaucratic despotism. Economic
freedom is, in fact, the requisite of greater prosperity for every American who earns his own
living.

In the field of labor legislation, only a law that merits the respect and support of both labor
and management can help reduce the loss of wages and of production through strikes and stoppages,
and thus add to the total economic strength of our Nation.

We have now had 5 years' experience with the Labor Management Act of 1947, commonly known as
the Taft-Hartley Act. That experience has shown the need for some corrective action, and we
should promptly proceed to amend that act.

I know that the Congress is already proceeding with renewed studies of this subject. Meanwhile,
the Department of Labor is at once beginning work to devise further specific recommendations
for your consideration.

In the careful working out of legislation, I know you will give thoughtful consideration--as
will we in the executive branch--to the views of labor, and of management, and of the general
public. In this process, it is only human that each of us should bring forward the arguments
of self-interest. But if all conduct their arguments in the overpowering light of national
interest--which is enlightened self-interest--we shall get the right answers. I profoundly
hope that every citizen of our country will follow with understanding your progress in this
work. The welfare of all of us is involved.

Especially must we remember that the institutions of trade unionism and collective bargaining
are monuments to the freedom that must prevail in our industrial life. They have a century
of honorable achievement behind them. Our faith in them is proven, firm, and final.

Government can do a great deal to aid the settlement of labor disputes without allowing itself
to be employed as an ally of either side. Its proper role in industrial strife is to encourage
the processes of mediation and conciliation. These processes can successfully be directed only
by a government free from the taint of any suspicion that it is partial or punitive.

The administration intends to strengthen and to improve the services which the Department of
Labor can render to the worker and to the whole national community. This Department was created--just
40 years ago--to serve the entire Nation. It must aid, for example, employers and employees
alike in improving training programs that will develop skilled and competent workers. It must
enjoy the confidence and respect of labor and industry in order to play a significant role
in the planning of America's economic future. To that end, I am authorizing the Department
of Labor to establish promptly a tripartite advisory committee consisting of representatives
of employers, labor, and the public.

X.

Our civil and social rights form a central part of the heritage we are striving to defend on
all fronts and with all our strength. I believe with all my heart that our vigilant guarding
of these rights is a sacred obligation binding upon every citizen. To be true to one's own
freedom is, in essence, to honor and respect the freedom of all others.

A cardinal ideal in this heritage we cherish is the equality of rights of all citizens of every
race and color and creed.

We know that discrimination against minorities persists despite our allegiance to this ideal.
Such discrimination--confined to no one section of the Nation--is but the outward testimony
to the persistence of distrust and of fear in the hearts of men.

This fact makes all the more vital the fighting of these wrongs by each individual, in every
station of life, in his every deed.

Much of the answer lies in the power of fact, fully publicized; of persuasion, honestly pressed;
and of conscience, justly aroused. These are methods familiar to our way of life, tested and
proven wise.

I propose to use whatever authority exists in the office of the President to end segregation
in the District of Columbia, including the Federal Government, and any segregation in the Armed
Forces.

Here in the District of Columbia, serious attention should be given to the proposal to develop
and authorize, through legislation, a system to provide an effective voice in local self-government.
While consideration of this proceeds, I recommend an immediate increase of two in the number
of District Commissioners to broaden representation of all elements of our local population.
This will be a first step toward insuring that this Capital provide an honored example to all
communities of our Nation.

In this manner, and by the leadership of the office of the President exercised through friendly
conferences with those in authority in our States and cities, we expect to make true and rapid
progress in civil rights and equality of employment opportunity.

There is one sphere in which civil rights are inevitably involved in Federal legislation. This
is the sphere of immigration.

It is a manifest right of our Government to limit the number of immigrants our Nation can absorb.
It is also a manifest right of our Government to set reasonable requirements on the character
and the numbers of the people who come to share our land and our freedom.

It is well for us, however, to remind ourselves occasionally of an equally manifest fact: we
are--one and all--immigrants or sons and daughters of immigrants.

Existing legislation contains injustices. It does, in fact, discriminate. I am informed by
Members of the Congress that it was realized, at the time of its enactment, that future study
of the basis of determining quotas would be necessary.

I am therefore requesting the Congress to review this legislation and to enact a statute that
will at one and the same time guard our legitimate national interests and be faithful to our
basic ideas of freedom and fairness to all.

In another but related area--that of social rights--we see most clearly the new application
of old ideas of freedom.

This administration is profoundly aware of two great needs born of our living in a complex
industrial economy. First, the individual citizen must have safeguards against personal disaster
inflicted by forces beyond his control; second, the welfare of the people demands effective
and economical performance by the Government of certain indispensable social services.

In the light of this responsibility, certain general purposes and certain concrete measures
are plainly indicated now.

There is urgent need for greater effectiveness in our programs, both public and private, offering
safeguards against the privations that too often come with unemployment, old age, illness,
and accident. The provisions of the old-age and survivors insurance law should promptly be
extended to cover millions of citizens who have been left out of the social-security system.
No less important is the encouragement of privately sponsored pension plans. Most important
of all, of course, is renewed effort to check the inflation which destroys so much of the value
of all social-security payments.

Our school system demands some prompt, effective help. During each of the last 9 years, more
than 1 1/2 million children have swelled the elementary and secondary school population of
the country. Generally, the school population is proportionately higher in States with low
per capita income. This whole situation calls for careful congressional study and action. I
am sure that you share my conviction that the firm conditions of Federal aid must be proved
need and proved lack of local income.

One phase of the school problem demands special action. The school population of many districts
has been greatly increased by the swift growth of defense activities. These activities have
added little or nothing to the tax resources of the communities affected. Legislation aiding
construction of schools in the districts expires on June 30. This law should be renewed; and
likewise, the partial payments for current operating expenses for these particular school districts
should be made, including the deficiency requirement of the current fiscal year.

Public interest similarly demands one prompt specific action in protection of the general consumer.
The Food and Drug Administration should be authorized to continue its established and necessary
program of factory inspections. The invalidation of these inspections by the Supreme Court
of December 8, 1952, was based solely on the fact that the present law contained inconsistent
and unclear provisions. These must be promptly corrected.

I am well aware that beyond these few immediate measures there remains much to be done. The
health and housing needs of our people call for intelligently planned programs. Involved are
the solvency of the whole security system; and its guarding against exploitation by the irresponsible.

To bring clear purpose and orderly procedure into this field, I anticipate a thorough study
of the proper relationship among Federal, State, and local programs. I shall shortly send you
specific recommendations for establishing such an appropriate commission, together with a reorganization
plan defining new administrative status for all Federal activities in health, education, and
social security.

I repeat that there are many important subjects of which I make no mention today. Among these
is our great and growing body of veterans. America has traditionally been generous in caring
for the disabled--and the widow and the orphan of the fallen. These millions remain close to
all our hearts. Proper care of our uniformed citizens and appreciation of the past service
of our veterans are part of our accepted governmental responsibilities.

XI

We have surveyed briefly some problems of our people and a portion of the tasks before us.

The hope of freedom itself depends, in real measure, upon our strength, our heart, and our wisdom.

We must be strong in arms. We must be strong in the source of all our armament, our productivity.
We all--workers and farmers, foremen and financiers, technicians and builders--all must produce,
produce more, and produce yet more.

We must be strong, above all, in the spiritual resources upon which all else depends. We must
be devoted with all our heart to the values we defend. We must know that each of these values
and virtues applies with equal force at the ends of the earth and in our relations with our
neighbor next door. We must know that freedom expresses itself with equal eloquence in the
right of workers to strike in the nearby factory, and in the yearnings and sufferings of the
peoples of Eastern Europe.

As our heart summons our strength, our wisdom must direct it.

There is, in world affairs, a steady course to be followed between an assertion of strength
that is truculent and a confession of helplessness that is cowardly.

There is, in our affairs at home, a middle way between untrammeled freedom of the individual
and the demands for the welfare of the whole Nation. This way must avoid government by bureaucracy
as carefully as it avoids neglect of the helpless.

In every area of political action, free men must think before they can expect to win.

In this spirit must we live and labor: confident of our strength, compassionate in our heart,
clear in our mind.

In this spirit, let us together turn to the great tasks before us.

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower January 7, 1954

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Eighty-third Congress:

It is a high honor again to present to the Congress my views on the state of the Union and
to recommend measures to advance the security, prosperity, and well-being of the American people.

All branches of this Government--and I venture to say both of our great parties--can support
the general objective of the recommendations I make today, for that objective is the building
of a stronger America. A nation whose every citizen has good reason for bold hope; where effort
is rewarded and prosperity is shared; where freedom expands and peace is secure--that is what
I mean by a stronger America.

Toward this objective a real momentum has been developed during this Administration's first
year in office. We mean to continue that momentum and to increase it. We mean to build a better
future for this nation.

Much for which we may be thankful has happened during the past year.

First of all we are deeply grateful that our sons no longer die on the distant mountains of
Korea. Although they are still called from our homes to military service, they are no longer
called to the field of battle.

The nation has just completed the most prosperous year in its history. The damaging effect
of inflation on the wages, pensions, salaries and savings of us all has been brought under
control. Taxes have begun to go down. The cost of our government has been reduced and its work
proceeds with some 183,000 fewer employees; thus the discouraging trend of modern governments
toward their own limitless expansion has in our case been reversed. The cost of armaments becomes
less oppressive as we near our defense goals; yet we are militarily stronger every day. During
the year, creation of the new Cabinet Department of Health, Education, and Welfare symbolized
the government's permanent concern with the human problems of our citizens.

Segregation in the armed forces and other Federal activities is on the way out. We have also
made progress toward its elimination in the District of Columbia. These are steps in the continuing
effort to eliminate inter-racial difficulty.

Some developments beyond our shores have been equally encouraging. Communist aggression, halted
in Korea, continues to meet in Indo-china the vigorous resistance of France and the Associated
States, assisted by timely aid from our country. In West Germany, in Iran, and in other areas
of the world, heartening political victories have been won by the forces of stability and freedom.
Slowly but surely, the free world gathers strength. Meanwhile, from behind the iron curtain,
there are signs that tyranny is in trouble and reminders that its structure is as brittle as
its surface is hard.

There has been in fact a great strategic change in the world during the past year. That precious
intangible, the initiative, is becoming ours. Our policy, not limited to mere reaction against
crises provoked by others, is free to develop along lines of our choice not only abroad, but
also at home. As a major theme for American policy during the coming year, let our joint determination
be to hold this new initiative and to use it.

We shall use this initiative to promote three broad purposes: First, to protect the freedom
of our people; second, to maintain a strong, growing economy; third, to concern ourselves with
the human problems of the individual citizen.

Only by active concern for each of these purposes can we be sure that we are on the forward
road to a better and a stronger America. All my recommendations today are in furtherance of
these three purposes.

I. FOREIGN AFFAIRS

American freedom is threatened so long as the world Communist conspiracy exists in its present
scope, power and hostility. More closely than ever before, American freedom is interlocked
with the freedom of other people. In the unity of the free world lies our best chance to reduce
the Communist threat without war. In the task of maintaining this unity and strengthening all
its parts, the greatest responsibility falls naturally on those who, like ourselves, retain
the most freedom and strength.

We shall, therefore, continue to advance the cause of freedom on foreign fronts.

In the Far East, we retain our vital interest in Korea. We have negotiated with the Republic
of Korea a mutual security pact, which develops our security system for the Pacific and which
I shall promptly submit to the Senate for its consent to ratification. We are prepared to meet
any renewal of armed aggression in Korea. We shall maintain indefinitely our bases in Okinawa.
I shall ask the Congress to authorize continued material assistance to hasten the successful
conclusion of the struggle in Indo-china. This assistance will also bring closer the day when
the Associated States may enjoy the independence already assured by France. We shall also continue
military and economic aid to the Nationalist Government of China.

In South Asia, profound changes are taking place in free nations which are demonstrating their
ability to progress through democratic methods. They provide an inspiring contrast to the dictatorial
methods and backward course of events in Communist China. In these continuing efforts, the
free peoples of South Asia can be assured of the support of the United States.

In the Middle East, where tensions and serious problems exist, we will show sympathetic and
impartial friendship.

In Western Europe our policy rests firmly on the North Atlantic Treaty. It will remain so based
as far ahead as we can see. Within its organization, the building of a united European community,
including France and Germany, is vital to a free and self-reliant Europe. This will be promoted
by the European Defense Community which offers assurance of European security. With the coming
of unity to Western Europe, the assistance this Nation can render for the security of Europe
and the free world will be multiplied in effectiveness.

In the Western Hemisphere we shall continue to develop harmonious and mutually beneficial cooperation
with our neighbors. Indeed, solid friendship with all our American neighbors is a cornerstone
of our entire policy.

In the world as a whole, the United Nations, admittedly still in a state of evolution, means
much to the United States. It has given uniquely valuable services in many places where violence
threatened. It is the only real world forum where we have the opportunity for international
presentation and rebuttal. It is a place where the nations of the world can, if they have the
will, take collective action for peace and justice. It is a place where the guilt can be squarely
assigned to those who fail to take all necessary steps to keep the peace. The United Nations
deserves our continued firm support.

FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND TRADE

In the practical application of our foreign policy, we enter the field of foreign assistance
and trade.

Military assistance must be continued. Technical assistance must be maintained. Economic assistance
can be reduced. However, our economic programs in Korea and in a few other critical places
of the world are especially important, and I shall ask Congress to continue them in the next
fiscal year.

The forthcoming Budget Message will propose maintenance of the Presidential power of transferability
of all assistance funds and will ask authority to merge these funds with the regular defense
funds. It will also propose that the Secretary of Defense have primary responsibility for the
administration of foreign military assistance in accordance with the policy guidance of the
Secretary of State.

The fact that we can now reduce our foreign economic assistance in many areas is gratifying
evidence that its objectives are being achieved. By continuing to surpass her prewar levels
of economic activity, Western Europe gains self-reliance. Thus our relationship enters a new
phase which can bring results beneficial to our taxpayers and our allies alike, if still another
step is taken.

This step is the creation of a healthier and freer system of trade and payments within the
free world--a system in which our allies can earn their own way and our own economy can continue
to flourish. The free world can no longer afford the kinds of arbitrary restraints on trade
that have continued ever since the war. On this problem I shall submit to the Congress detailed
recommendations, after our Joint Commission on Foreign Economic Policy has made its report.

ATOMIC ENERGY PROPOSAL

As we maintain our military strength during the coming year and draw closer the bonds with
our allies, we shall be in an improved position to discuss outstanding issues with the Soviet
Union. Indeed we shall be glad to do so whenever there is a reasonable prospect of constructive
results. In this spirit the atomic energy proposals of the United States were recently presented
to the United Nations General Assembly. A truly constructive Soviet reaction will make possible
a new start toward an era of peace, and away from the fatal road toward atomic war.

DEFENSE

Since our hope is peace, we owe ourselves and the world a candid explanation of the military
measures we are taking to make that peace secure.

As we enter this new year, our military power continues to grow. This power is for our own
defense and to deter aggression. We shall not be aggressors, but we and our allies have and
will maintain a massive capability to strike back.

Here are some of the considerations in our defense planning:

First, while determined to use atomic power to serve the usages of peace, we take into full
account our great and growing number of nuclear weapons and the most effective means of using
them against an aggressor if they are needed to preserve our freedom. Our defense will be stronger
if, under appropriate security safeguards, we share with our allies certain knowledge of the
tactical use of our nuclear weapons. I urge the Congress to provide the needed authority.

Second, the usefulness of these new weapons creates new relationships between men and materials.
These new relationships permit economies in the use of men as we build forces suited to our
situation in the world today. As will be seen from the Budget Message on January 21, the airpower
of our Navy and Air Force is receiving heavy emphasis.

Third, our armed forces must regain maximum mobility of action. Our strategic reserves must
be centrally placed and readily deployable to meet sudden aggression against ourselves and
our allies.

Fourth, our defense must rest on trained manpower and its most economical and mobile use. A
professional corps is the heart of any security organization. It is necessarily the teacher
and leader of those who serve temporarily in the discharge of the obligation to help defend
the Republic. Pay alone will not retain in the career service of our armed forces the necessary
numbers of long-term personnel. I strongly urge, therefore, a more generous use of other benefits
important to service morale. Among these are more adequate living quarters and family housing
units and medical care for dependents.

Studies of military manpower have just been completed by the National Security Training Commission
and a Committee appointed by the Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization. Evident weaknesses
exist in the state of readiness and organization of our reserve forces. Measures to correct
these weaknesses will be later submitted to the Congress.

Fifth, the ability to convert swiftly from partial to all-out mobilization is imperative to
our security. For the first time, mobilization officials know what the requirements are for
1,000 major items needed for military uses. These data, now being related to civilian requirements
and our supply potential, will show us the gaps in our mobilization base. Thus we shall have
more realistic plant-expansion and stockpiling goals. We shall speed their attainment. This
Nation is at last to have an up-to-date mobilization base--the foundation of a sound defense
program.

Another part of this foundation is, of course, our continental transport system. Some of our
vital heavy materials come increasingly from Canada. Indeed our relations with Canada, happily
always close, involve more and more the unbreakable ties of strategic interdependence. Both
nations now need the St. Lawrence Seaway for security as well as for economic reasons. I urge
the Congress promptly to approve our participation in its construction.

Sixth, military and non-military measures for continental defense must be and are being strengthened.
In the current fiscal year we are allocating to these purposes an increasing portion of our
effort, and in the next fiscal year we shall spend nearly a billion dollars more for them than
in 1953.

An indispensable part of our continental security is our civil defense effort. This will succeed
only as we have the complete cooperation of State Governors, Mayors, and voluntary citizen
groups. With their help we can advance a cooperative program which, if an attack should come,
would save many lives and lessen destruction.

The defense program recommended in the 1955 Budget is consistent with all of the considerations
which I have just discussed. It is based on a new military program unanimously recommended
by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and approved by me following consideration by the National Security
Council. This new program will make and keep America strong in an age of peril. Nothing should
bar its attainment.

The international and defense policies which I have outlined will enable us to negotiate from
a position of strength as we hold our resolute course toward a peaceful world. We now turn
to matters which are normally characterized as domestic, well realizing that what we do abroad
affects every problem at home--from the amount of taxes to our very state of mind.

INTERNAL SECURITY

Under the standards established for the new employee security program, more than 2,200 employees
have been separated from the Federal government. Our national security demands that the investigation
of new employees and the evaluation of derogatory information respecting present employees
be expedited and concluded at the earliest possible date. I shall recommend that the Congress
provide additional funds where necessary to speed these important procedures.

From the special employment standards of the Federal government I turn now to a matter relating
to American citizenship. The subversive character of the Communist Party in the United States
has been clearly demonstrated in many ways, including court proceedings. We should recognize
by law a fact that is plain to all thoughtful citizens-that we are dealing here with actions
akin to treason--that when a citizen knowingly participates in the Communist conspiracy he
no longer holds allegiance to the United States.

I recommend that Congress enact legislation to provide that a citizen of the United States
who is convicted in the courts of hereafter conspiring to advocate the overthrow of this government
by force or violence be treated as having, by such act, renounced his allegiance to the United
States and forfeited his United States citizenship.

In addition, the Attorney General will soon appear before your Committees to present his recommendations
for needed additional legal weapons with which to combat subversion in our country and to deal
with the question of claimed immunity.

II. STRONG ECONOMY

I turn now to the second great purpose of our government: Along with the protection of freedom,
the maintenance of a strong and growing economy.

The American economy is one of the wonders of the world. It undergirds our international position,
our military security, and the standard of living of every citizen. This Administration is
determined to keep our economy strong and to keep it growing.

At this moment we are in transition from a wartime to a peacetime economy. I am confident that
we can complete this transition without serious interruption in our economic growth. But we
shall not leave this vital matter to chance. Economic preparedness is fully as important to
the nation as military preparedness.

Subsequent special messages and the economic report on January 28 will set forth plans of the
Administration and its recommendations for Congressional action. These will include flexible
credit and debt management policies; tax measures to stimulate consumer and business spending;
suitable lending, guaranteeing, insuring, and grant-in-aid activities; strengthened old-age
and unemployment insurance measures; improved agricultural programs; public-works plans laid
well in advance; enlarged opportunities for international trade and investment. This mere enumeration
of these subjects implies the vast amount of study, coordination, and planning, to say nothing
of authorizing legislation, that altogether make our economic preparedness complete.

If new conditions arise that require additional administrative or legislative action, the Administration
will still be ready. A government always ready, as this is, to take well-timed and vigorous
action, and a business community willing, as ours is, to plan boldly and with confidence, can
between them develop a climate assuring steady economic growth.

THE BUDGET

I shall submit to the Congress on January 21 the first budget prepared by this Administration,
for the period July 1, 1954, through June 1955. This budget is adequate to the current needs
of the government. It recognizes that a Federal budget should be a stabilizing factor in the
economy. Its tax and expenditure programs will foster individual initiative and economic growth.

Pending the transmittal of my Budget Message, I shall mention here only a few points about
our budgetary situation.

First, one of our initial acts was to revise, with the cooperation of the Congress, the Budget
prepared before this Administration took office. Requests for new appropriations were greatly
reduced. In addition, the spending level provided in that Budget for the current fiscal year
has been reduced by about $7,000,000,000. In the next fiscal year we estimate a further reduction
in expenditures of more than $5,000,000,000. This will reduce the spending level over the two
fiscal years by more than $12,000,000,000. We are also reducing further our requests for new
appropriations.

Second, despite the substantial loss of revenue in the coming fiscal year, resulting from tax
reductions now in effect and tax adjustments which I shall propose, our reduced spending will
move the new budget closer to a balance.

Third, by keeping new appropriation requests below estimated revenues, we continue to reduce
the tremendous accumulation of unfinanced obligations incurred by the Government under past
appropriations.

Fourth, until those claims on our Government's revenues are further reduced, the growth in
the public debt cannot be entirely stopped. Because of this--because the government's bills
have to be paid every month, while the tax money to pay them comes in with great unevenness
within the fiscal year--and because of the need for flexibility to manage this enormous debt,
I find it necessary to renew my request for an increase in the statutory debt limit.

TAXES

The new budget provides for a lower level of taxation than has prevailed in preceding years.
Six days ago individual income taxes were reduced and the excess profits tax expired. These
tax reductions are justified only because of the substantial reductions we already have made
and are making in governmental expenditures. As additional reductions in expenditures are brought
gradually but surely into sight, further reductions in taxes can and will be made. When budget
savings and sound governmental financing are assured, tax burdens should be reduced so that
taxpayers may spend their own money in their own way.

While we are moving toward lower levels of taxation we must thoroughly revise our whole tax
system. The groundwork for this revision has already been laid by the Committee on Ways and
Means of the House of Representatives, in close consultation with the Department of the Treasury.
We should now remove the more glaring tax inequities, particularly on small taxpayers; reduce
restraints on the growth of small business; and make other changes that will encourage initiative,
enterprise and production. Twenty-five recommendations toward these ends will be contained
in my budget message.

Without attempting to summarize these manifold reforms, I can here illustrate their tendency.
For example, we propose more liberal tax treatment for dependent children who work, for widows
or widowers with dependent children, and for medical expenses. For the business that wants
to expand or modernize its plant, we propose liberalized tax treatment of depreciation, research
and development expenses, and retained earnings.

Because of the present need for revenue the corporation income tax should be kept at the current
rate of 52% for another year, and the excise taxes scheduled to be reduced on April first,
including those on liquor, tobacco, gasoline and automobiles, should be continued at present rates.

Immediate extension of the Renegotiation Act of 1951 is also needed to eliminate excessive
profits and to prevent waste of public funds in the purchase of defense materials.

AGRICULTURE

The well being of our 160 million people demands a stable and prosperous agriculture. Conversely,
every farmer knows he cannot prosper unless all America prospers. As we seek to promote increases
in our standard of living, we must be sure that the farmer fairly shares in that increase.
Therefore, a farm program promoting stability and prosperity in all elements of our agriculture
is urgently needed.

Agricultural laws now in effect successfully accomplished their wartime purpose of encouraging
maximum production of many crops. Today, production of these crops at such levels far exceeds
present demand. Yet the laws encouraging such production are still in effect. The storage facilities
of the Commodity Credit Corporation bulge with surplus stocks of dairy products, wheat, cotton,
corn, and certain vegetable oils; and the Corporation's presently authorized borrowing authority--$6,750,000,000--is
nearly exhausted. Some products, priced out of domestic markets, and others, priced out of
world markets, have piled up in government hands. In a world in which millions of people are
hungry, destruction of food would, of course, be unconscionable. Yet surplus stocks continue
to threaten the market and in spite of the acreage controls authorized by present law, surpluses
will continue to accumulate.

We confront two alternatives. The first is to impose still greater acreage reductions for some
crops and apply rigid Federal controls over the use of the diverted acres. This will regiment
the production of every basic agricultural crop. It will place every producer of those crops
under the domination and control of the Federal government in Washington. This alternative
is contrary to the fundamental interests, not only of the farmer, but of the Nation as a whole.
Nor is it a real solution to the problem facing us.

The second alternative is to permit the market price for these agricultural products gradually
to have a greater influence on the planning of production by farmers, while continuing the
assistance of the government. This is the sound approach. To make it effective, surpluses existing
when the new program begins must be insulated from the normal channels of trade for special
uses. These uses would include school lunch programs, disaster relief, emergency assistance
to foreign friends, and of particular importance the stockpiling of reserves for a national
emergency.

Building on the agricultural laws of 1948 and 1949, we should establish a price support program
with enough flexibility to attract the production of needed supplies of essential commodities
and to stimulate the consumption of those commodities that are flooding American markets. Transition
to modernized parity must be accomplished gradually. In no case should there be an abrupt downward
change in the dollar level or in the percentage level of price supports.

Next Monday I shall transmit to the Congress my detailed recommendations embodying this approach.
They have been developed through the cooperation of innumerable individuals vitally interested
in agriculture. My special message on Monday will briefly describe the consultative and advisory
processes to which this whole program has been subjected during the past ten months.

I have chosen this farm program because it will build markets, protect the consumers' food
supply, and move food into consumption instead of into storage. It is a program that will remove
the threat to the farmer of these overhanging surpluses, a program, also, that will stimulate
production when a commodity is scarce and encourage consumption when nature is bountiful. Moreover,
it will promote the individual freedom, responsibility, and initiative which distinguish American
agriculture. And, by helping our agriculture achieve full parity in the market, it promises
our farmers a higher and steadier financial return over the years than any alternative plan.

CONSERVATION

Part of our Nation's precious heritage is its natural resources. It is the common responsibility
of Federal, state, and local governments to improve and develop them, always working in the
closest harmony and partnership.

All Federal conservation and resource development projects are being reappraised. Sound projects
now under way will be continued. New projects in which the Federal Government has a part must
be economically sound, with local sharing of cost wherever appropriate and feasible. In the
next fiscal year work will be started on twenty-three projects that meet these standards. The
Federal Government will continue to construct and operate economically sound flood control,
power, irrigation and water supply projects wherever these projects are beyond the capacity
of local initiative, public or private, and consistent with the needs of the whole Nation.

Our conservation program will also take into account the important role played by farmers in
protecting our soil resources. I recommend enactment of legislation to strengthen agricultural
conservation and upstream flood prevention work, and to achieve a better balance with major
flood control structures in the down-stream areas.

Recommendations will be made from time to time for the adoption of:

A uniform and consistent water resources policy;

A revised public lands policy; and

A sound program for safeguarding the domestic production of critical and strategic metals and
minerals.

In addition we shall continue to protect and improve our national forests, parks, monuments
and other natural and historic sites, as well as our fishery and wildlife resources. I hope
that pending legislation to improve the conservation and management of publicly-owned grazing
lands in national forests will soon be approved by the Congress.

NATIONAL HIGHWAYS

To protect the vital interest of every citizen in a safe and adequate highway system, the Federal
Government is continuing its central role in the Federal Aid Highway Program. So that maximum
progress can be made to overcome present inadequacies in the Interstate Highway System, we
must continue the Federal gasoline tax at two cents per gallon. This will require cancellation
of the 1/2 cent decrease which otherwise will become effective April 1st, and will maintain
revenues so that an expanded highway program can be undertaken.

When the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations completes its study of the present system
of financing highway construction, I shall promptly submit it for consideration by the Congress
and the governors of the states.

POST OFFICE

It is apparent that the substantial savings already made, and to be made, by the Post Office
Department cannot eliminate the postal deficit. I recommend, therefore, that the Congress approve
the bill now pending in the House of Representatives providing for the adjustment of certain
postal rates. To handle the long term aspects of this, I also recommend that the Congress create
a permanent commission to establish fair and reasonable postal rates from time to time in the
future.

III. HUMAN PROBLEMS

Along with the protection of freedom and maintenance of a strong and growing economy, this
Administration recognizes a third great purpose of government: concern for the human problems
of our citizens. In a modern industrial society, banishment of destitution and cushioning the
shock of personal disaster on the individual are proper concerns of all levels of government,
including the federal government. This is especially true where remedy and prevention alike
are beyond the individual's capacity.

LABOR AND WELFARE

Of the many problems in this area, those I shall first discuss are of particular concern to
the members of our great labor force, who with their heads, hearts and hands produce so much
of the wealth of our country.

Protection against the hazards of temporary unemployment should be extended to some 6 1/2 millions
of workers, including civilian Federal workers, who now lack this safeguard. Moreover, the
Secretary of Labor is making available to the states studies and recommendations in the fields
of weekly benefits, periods of protection and extension of coverage. The Economic Report will
consider the related matter of minimum wages and their coverage.

The Labor Management Relations Act of 3947 is basically a sound law. However, six years of
experience have revealed that in some respects it can be improved. On January 11, I shall forward
to the Congress suggestions for changes designed to reinforce the basic objectives of the Act.

Our basic social security program, the Old-Age and Survivors Insurance system, to which individuals
contribute during their productive years and receive benefits based on previous earnings, is
designed to shield them from destitution. Last year I recommended extension of the social insurance
system to include more than 10,000,000 additional persons. I ask that this extension soon be
accomplished. This and other major improvements in the insurance system will bring substantial
benefit increases and broaden the membership of the insurance system, thus diminishing the
need for Federal grants-in-aid for such purposes. A new formula will therefore be proposed,
permitting progressive reduction in such grants as the need for them declines.

Federal grant-in-aid welfare programs, now based on widely varying formulas, should be simplified.
Concrete proposals on fourteen of them will be suggested to the appropriate Committees.

The program for rehabilitation of the disabled especially needs strengthening. Through special
vocational training, this program presently returns each year some 60,000 handicapped individuals
to productive work. Far more disabled people can be saved each year from idleness and dependence
if this program is gradually increased. My more detailed recommendations on this and the other
social insurance problems I have mentioned will be sent to the Congress on January 14th.

HEALTH

I am flatly opposed to the socialization of medicine. The great need for hospital and medical
services can best be met by the initiative of private plans. But it is unfortunately a fact
that medical costs are rising and already impose severe hardships on many families. The Federal
Government can do many helpful things and still carefully avoid the socialization of medicine.

The Federal Government should encourage medical research in its battle with such mortal diseases
as cancer and heart ailments, and should continue to help the states in their health and rehabilitation
programs. The present Hospital Survey and Construction Act should be broadened in order to
assist in the development of adequate facilities for the chronically ill, and to encourage
the construction of diagnostic centers, rehabilitation facilities, and nursing homes. The war
on disease also needs a better working relationship between Government and private initiative.
Private and non-profit hospital and medical insurance plans are already in the field, soundly
based on the experience and initiative of the people in their various communities.

A limited Government reinsurance service would permit the private and non-profit insurance
companies to offer broader protection to more of the many families which want and should have
it. On January 18 I shall forward to the Congress a special message presenting this Administration's
health program in its detail.

EDUCATION

Youth--our greatest resource--is being seriously neglected in a vital respect. The nation as
a whole is not preparing teachers or building schools fast enough to keep up with the increase
in our population.

The preparation of teachers as, indeed, the control and direction of public education policy,
is a state and local responsibility. However, the Federal Government should stand ready to
assist states which demonstrably cannot provide sufficient school buildings. In order to appraise
the needs, I hope that this year a conference on education will be held in each state, culminating
in a national conference. From these conferences on education, every level of government--from
the Federal Government to each local school board--should gain the information with which to
attack this serious problem.

HOUSING

The details of a program to enlarge and improve the opportunities for our people to acquire
good homes will be presented to the Congress by special message on January 25.

This program will include:

Modernization of the home mortgage insurance program of the Federal Government;

Redirection of the present system of loans and grants-in-aid to cities for slum clearance and
redevelopment;

Extension of the advantages of insured lending to private credit engaged in this task of rehabilitating
obsolete neighborhoods;

Insurance of long-term, mortgage loans, with small down payment for low-income families; and,
until alternative programs prove more effective,

Continuation of the public housing program adopted in the Housing Act of 1949.

If the individual, the community, the State and federal governments will alike apply themselves,
every American family can have a decent home.

VETERANS ADMINISTRATION

The internal reorganization of the Veterans Administration is proceeding with my full approval.
When completed, it will afford a single agency whose services, including medical facilities,
will be better adapted to the needs of those 20,000,000 veterans to whom this Nation owes so much.

SUFFRAGE

My few remaining recommendations all relate to a basic right of our citizens--that of being
represented in the decisions of the government.

I hope that the States will cooperate with the Congress in adopting uniform standards in their
voting laws that will make it possible for our citizens in the armed forces overseas to vote.

In the District of Columbia the time is long overdue for granting national suffrage to its
citizens and also applying the principle of local self-government to the Nation's Capital.
I urge the Congress to move promptly in this direction and also to revise District revenue
measures to provide needed public works improvements.

The people of Hawaii are ready for statehood. I renew my request for this legislation in order
that Hawaii may elect its State officials and its representatives in Washington along with
the rest of the country this fall.

For years our citizens between the ages of 18 and 21 have, in time of peril, been summoned
to fight for America. They should participate in the political process that produces this fateful
summons. I urge Congress to propose to the States a constitutional amendment permitting citizens
to vote when they reach the age of 18.

CONCLUSION

I want to add one final word about the general purport of these many recommendations.

Our government's powers are wisely limited by the Constitution; but quite apart from those
limitations, there are things which no government can do or should try to do.

A government can strive, as ours is striving, to maintain an economic system whose doors are
open to enterprise and ambition--those personal qualities on which economic growth largely
depends. But enterprise and ambition are qualities which no government can supply. Fortunately
no American government need concern itself on this score; our people have these qualities in
good measure.

A government can sincerely strive for peace, as ours is striving, and ask its people to make
sacrifices for the sake of peace. But no government can place peace in the hearts of foreign
rulers. It is our duty then to ourselves and to freedom itself to remain strong in all those
ways--spiritual, economic, military--that will give us maximum safety against the possibility
of aggressive action by others.

No government can inoculate its people against the fatal materialism that plagues our age.
Happily, our people, though blessed with more material goods than any people in history, have
always reserved their first allegiance to the kingdom of the spirit, which is the true source
of that freedom we value above all material things.

But a government can try, as ours tries, to sense the deepest aspirations of the people, and
to express them in political action at home and abroad. So long as action and aspiration humbly
and earnestly seek favor in the sight of the Almighty, there is no end to America's forward
road; there is no obstacle on it she will not surmount in her march toward a lasting peace
in a free and prosperous world.

The Address as reported from the floor appears in the Congressional Record (vol. 100, p. 62).

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower January 6, 1955

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Congress:

First, I extend cordial greetings to the 84th Congress. We shall have much to do together;
I am sure that we shall get it done--and, that we shall do it in harmony and good will.

At the outset, I believe it would be well to remind ourselves of this great fundamental in
our national life: our common belief that every human being is divinely endowed with dignity
and worth and inalienable rights. This faith, with its corollary--that to grow and flourish
people must be free--shapes the interests and aspirations of every American.

From this deep faith have evolved three main purposes of our Federal Government:

First, to maintain justice and freedom among ourselves and to champion them for others so that
we may work effectively for enduring peace;

Second, to help keep our economy vigorous and expanding, thus sustaining our international
strength and assuring better jobs, better living, better opportunities for every citizen;

And third, to concern ourselves with the human problems of our people so that every American
may have the opportunity to lead a healthy, productive and rewarding life.

Foremost among these broad purposes of government is our support of freedom, justice and peace.

It is of the utmost importance, that each of us understand the true nature of the struggle
now taking place in the world.

It is not a struggle merely of economic theories, or of forms of government, or of military
power. At issue is the true nature of man. Either man is the creature whom the Psalmist described
as "a little lower than the angels," crowned with glory and honor, holding "dominion over the
works" of his Creator; or man is a soulless, animated machine to be enslaved, used and consumed
by the state for its own glorification.

It is, therefore, a struggle which goes to the roots of the human spirit, and its shadow falls
across the long sweep of man's destiny. This prize, so precious, so fraught with ultimate meaning,
is the true object of the contending forces in the world.

In the past year, there has been progress justifying hope, both for continuing peace and for
the ultimate rule of freedom and justice in the world. Free nations are collectively stronger
than at any time in recent years.

Just as nations of this Hemisphere, in the historic Caracas and Rio conferences, have closed
ranks against imperialistic Communism and strengthened their economic ties, so free nations
elsewhere have forged new bonds of unity.

Recent agreements between Turkey and Pakistan have laid a foundation for increased strength
in the Middle East. With our understanding support, Egypt and Britain, Yugoslavia and Italy,
Britain and Iran have resolved dangerous differences. The security of the Mediterranean has
been enhanced by an alliance among Greece, Turkey and Yugoslavia. Agreements in Western Europe
have paved the way for unity to replace past divisions which have undermined Europe's economic
and military vitality. The defense of the West appears likely at last to include a free, democratic
Germany participating as an equal in the councils of NATO.

In Asia and the Pacific, the pending Manila Pact supplements our treaties with Australia, New
Zealand, the Philippines, Korea and Japan and our prospective treaty with the Republic of China.
These pacts stand as solemn warning that future military aggression and subversion against
the free nations of Asia will meet united response. The Pacific Charter, also adopted at Manila,
is a milestone in the development of human freedom and self-government in the Pacific area.

Under the auspices of the United Nations, there is promise of progress in our country's plan
for the peaceful use of atomic energy.

Finally, today the world is at peace. It is, to be sure, an secure peace. Yet all humanity
finds hope in the simple fact that for an appreciable time there has been no active major battlefield
on earth. This same fact inspires us to work all the more effectively with other nations for
the well-being, the freedom, the dignity, of every human on earth.

These developments are heartening indeed, and we are hopeful of continuing progress. But sobering
problems remain.

The massive military machines and ambitions of the Soviet-Communist bloc still create uneasiness
in the world. All of us are aware of the continuing reliance of the Soviet Communists on military
force, of the power of their weapons, of their present resistance to realistic armament limitation,
and of their continuing effort to dominate or intimidate free nations on their periphery. Their
steadily growing power includes an increasing strength in nuclear weapons. This power, combined
with the proclaimed intentions of the Communist leaders to communize the world, is the threat
confronting us today.

To protect our nations and our peoples from the catastrophe of a nuclear holocaust, free nations
must maintain countervailing military power to persuade the Communists of the futility of seeking
their ends through aggression. If Communist rulers understand that America's response to aggression
will be swift and decisive--that never shall we buy peace at the expense of honor or faith--they
will be powerfully deterred from launching a military venture engulfing their own peoples and
many others in disaster. This, of course, is merely world stalemate. But in this stalemate
each of us may and must exercise his high duty to strive in every honorable way for enduring peace.

The military threat is but one menace to our freedom and security. We must not only deter aggression;
we must also frustrate the effort of Communists to gain their goals by subversion. To this
end, free nations must maintain and reinforce their cohesion, their internal security, their
political and economic vitality, and their faith in freedom.

In such a world, America's course is dear:

We must tirelessly labor to make the peace more just and durable.

We must strengthen the collective defense under the United Nations Charter and gird ourselves
with sufficient military strength and productive capacity to discourage resort to war and protect
our nation's vital interests.

We must continue to support and strengthen the United Nations. At this very moment, by vote
of the United Nations General Assembly, its Secretary-General is in Communist China on a mission
of deepest concern to all Americans: seeking the release of our never-to-be-forgotten American
aviators and all other United Nations prisoners wrongfully detained by the Communist regime.

We must also encourage the efforts being made in the United Nations to limit armaments and
to harness the atom to peaceful rise.

We must expand international trade and investment and assist friendly nations whose own best
efforts are still insufficient to provide the strength essential to the security of the free world.

We must be willing to use the processes of negotiation whenever they will advance the cause
of just and secure peace to which the United States and other free nations are dedicated.

In respect to all these matters, we must, through a vigorous information program, keep the
peoples of the world truthfully advised of our actions and purposes. This problem has been
attacked with new vigor during the past months. I urge that the Congress give its earnest consideration
to the great advantages that can accrue to our country through the successful operations of
this program.

We must also carry forward our educational exchange program. This sharing of knowledge and
experience between our citizens and those of free countries is a powerful factor in the development
and maintenance of true partnership among free peoples.

To advance these many efforts, the Congress must act in this session on appropriations, legislation,
and treaties. Today I shall mention especially our foreign economic and military programs.

The recent economic progress in many free nations has been most heartening. The productivity
of labor and the production of goods and services are increasing in ever-widening areas. There
is a growing will to improve the living standards of all men. This progress is important to
all our people. It promises us allies who are strong and self-reliant; it promises a growing
world market for the products of our mines, our factories, and our farms.

But only through steady effort can we hope to continue this progress. Barriers still impede
trade and the flow of capital needed to develop each nation's human and material resources.
Wise reduction of these barriers is a long-term objective of our foreign economic policy--a
policy of an evolutionary and selective nature, assuring broad benefits to our own and other
peoples.

We must gradually reduce certain tariff obstacles to trade. These actions should, of course,
be accompanied by a similar lowering of trade barriers by other nations, so that we may move
steadily toward greater economic advantage for all. We must further simplify customs administration
and procedures. We must facilitate the flow of capital and continue technical assistance, both
directly and through the United Nations, to less developed countries to strengthen their independence
and raise their living standards. Many another step must be taken in and among the nations
of the free world to release forces of private initiative. In our own nation, these forces
have brought strength and prosperity; once released, they will generate rising incomes in these
other countries with which to buy the products of American industry, labor and agriculture.

On January 10, by special message, I shall submit specific recommendations for carrying forward
the legislative phases of our foreign economic policy.

Our many efforts to build a better world include the maintenance of our military strength.
This is a vast undertaking. Major national security programs consume two-thirds of the entire
Federal budget. Over four million Americans--servicemen and civilians--are on the rolls of
the defense establishment. During the past two years, by eliminating duplication and overstaffing,
by improved procurement and inventory controls, and by concentrating on the essentials, many
billions of dollars have been saved in our defense activities. I should like to mention certain
fundamentals underlying this vast program.

First, a realistic limitation of armaments and an enduring, just peace remain our national
goals; we maintain powerful military forces because there is no present alternative--forces
designed for deterrent and defensive purposes alone but able instantly to strike back with
destructive power in response to an attack.

Second, we must stay alert to the fact that undue reliance on one weapon or preparation for
only one kind of warfare simply invites an enemy to resort to another. We must, therefore,
keep in our armed forces balance and flexibility adequate for our purposes and objectives.

Third, to keep our armed forces abreast of the advances of science, our military planning must
be flexible enough to utilize the new weapons and techniques which flow ever more speedily
from our research and development programs. The forthcoming military budget therefore emphasizes
modern airpower in the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps and increases the emphasis on new weapons,
especially those of rapid and destructive striking power. It assures the maintenance of effective,
retaliatory force as the principal deterrent to overt aggression. It accelerates the continental
defense program and the build-up of ready military reserve forces. It continues a vigorous
program of stockpiling strategic and critical materials and strengthening our mobilization
base. The budget also contemplates the strategic concentration of our strength through redeployment
of certain forces. It provides for reduction of forces in certain categories and their expansion
in others, to fit them to the military realities of our time. These emphases in our defense
planning have been made at my personal direction after long and thoughtful study. In my judgment,
they will give our nation a defense accurately adjusted to the national need.

Fourth, pending a world agreement on armament limitation, we must continue to improve and expand
our supplies of nuclear weapons for our land, naval and air forces, while, at the same time,
continuing our encouraging progress in the peaceful use of atomic power.

And fifth, in the administration of these costly programs, we must demand the utmost in efficiency
and ingenuity. We must assure our people not only of adequate protection but also of a defense
that can be carried forward from year to year until the threat of aggression has disappeared.

To help maintain this kind of armed strength and improve its efficiency, I must urge the enactment
of several important measures in this session.

The first concerns the selective service act which expires next June 30th. For the foreseeable
future, our standing forces must remain much larger than voluntary methods can sustain. We
must, therefore, extend the statutory authority to induct men for two years of military service.

The second kind of measure concerns the rapid turnover of our most experienced servicemen.
This process seriously weakens the combat readiness of our armed forces and is exorbitantly
expensive. To encourage more trained servicemen to remain in uniform, I shall, on the thirteenth
of this month, propose a number of measures to increase the attractions of a military career.
These measures will include more adequate medical care for dependents, survivors' benefits,
more and better housing, and selective adjustments in military pay and other allowances.

And third--also on January 13--I shall present a program to rebuild and strengthen the civilian
components of our armed forces. This is a comprehensive program, designed to make better use
of our manpower of military age. Because it will go far in assuring fair and equitable participation
in military training and service, it is of particular importance to our combat veterans. In
keeping with the historic military policy of our Republic, this program is designed to build
and maintain powerful civilian reserves immediately capable of effective military service in
an emergency in lieu of maintaining active duty forces in excess of the nation's immediate need.

Maintenance of an effective defense requires continuance of our aggressive attack on subversion
at home. In this effort we have, in the past two years, made excellent progress. FBI investigations
have been powerfully reinforced by a new Internal Security Division in the Department of Justice;
the security activities of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have been revitalized;
an improved and strengthened security system is in effect throughout the government; the Department
of Justice and the FBI have been armed with effective new legal weapons forged by the 83rd
Congress.

We shall continue to ferret out and to destroy Communist subversion.

We shall, in the process, carefully preserve our traditions and the basic rights of our citizens.

Our civil defense program is also a key element in the protection of our country. We are developing
cooperative methods with State Governors, Mayors, and voluntary citizen groups, as well as
among Federal agencies, in building the civil defense organization. Its significance in time
of war is obvious; its swift assistance in disaster areas last year proved its importance in
time of peace.

An industry capable of rapid expansion and essential materials and facilities swiftly available
in time of emergency are indispensable to our defense. I urge, therefore, a two-year extension
of the Defense Production Act and Title II of the First War Powers Act of 1941. These are cornerstones
of our program for the development and maintenance of an adequate mobilization base. At this
point, I should like to make this additional observation. Our quest for peace and freedom necessarily
presumes that we who hold positions of public trust must rise above self and section--that
we must subordinate to the general good our partisan, our personal pride and prejudice. Tirelessly,
with united purpose, we must fortify the material and spiritual foundations of this land of
freedom and of free nations throughout the world. As never before, there is need for unhesitating
cooperation among the branches of our government.

At this time the executive and legislative branches are under the management of different political
parties. This fact places both parties on trial before the American people.

In less perilous days of the past, division of governmental responsibility among our great
parties has produced a paralyzing indecision. We must not let this happen in our time. We must
avoid a paralysis of the will for peace and international security.

In the traditionally bipartisan areas--military security and foreign relations--I can report
to you that I have already, with the leaders of this Congress, expressed assurances of unreserved
cooperation. Yet, the strength of our country requires more than mere maintenance of military
strength and success in foreign affairs; these vital matters are in turn dependent upon concerted
and vigorous action in a number of supporting programs. I say, therefore, to the 84th Congress:

In all areas basic to the strength of America, there will be--to the extent I can insure them--cooperative,
constructive relations between the Executive and Legislative Branches of this government. Let
the general good be our yardstick on every great issue of our time.

Our efforts to defend our freedom and to secure a just peace are, of course, inseparable from
the second great purpose of our government: to help maintain a strong, growing economy--an
economy vigorous and free, in which there are ever-increasing opportunities, just rewards for
effort, and a stable prosperity that is widely shared.

In the past two years, many important governmental Actions helped our economy adjust to conditions
of peace; these and other actions created a climate for renewed economic growth. Controls were
removed from wages, prices and materials. Tax revisions encouraged increased private spending
and employment. Federal expenditures were sharply reduced, making possible a record tax cut.
These actions, together with flexible monetary and debt management policies, helped to halt
inflation and stabilize the value of the dollar. A program of cooperation and partnership in
resource development was begun. Social security and unemployment insurance laws were broadened
and strengthened. New laws started the long process of balancing farm production with farm
markets. Expanded shipbuilding and stockpiling programs strengthened key sectors of the economy,
while improving our mobilization base. A comprehensive new housing law brought impressive progress
in an area fundamental to our economic strength and closed loopholes in the old laws permitting
dishonest manipulation. Many of these programs are just beginning to exert their main stimulating
effect upon the economy generally and upon specific communities and industries throughout the
country.

The past year--1954--was one of the most prosperous years in our history. Business activity
now surges with new strength. Production is rising. Employment is high. Toward the end of last
year average weekly wages in manufacturing were higher than ever before. Personal income after
taxes is at a record level. So is consumer spending. Construction activity is reaching new
peaks. Export demand for our goods is strong. State and local government expenditures on public
works are rising. Savings are high, and credit is readily available.

So, today, the transition to a peacetime economy is largely behind us.

The economic outlook is good.

The many promising factors I have mentioned do not guarantee sustained economic expansion;
however, they do give us a strong position from which to carry forward our economic growth.
If we as a people act wisely, within ten years our annual national output can rise from its
present level of about $360 billion to $500 billion, measured in dollars of stable buying power.

My Budget Message on January 17, the Economic Report on the 20th of this month, and several
special messages will set forth in detail major programs to foster the growth of our economy
and to protect the integrity of the people's money. Today I shall discuss these programs only
in general terms.

Government efficiency and economy remain essential to steady progress toward a balanced budget.
More than ten billion dollars were cut from the spending program proposed in the budget of
January 9, 1953. Expenditures of that year were six and a half billion below those of the previous
year. In the current fiscal year, government spending will be nearly four and a half billion
dollars less than in the fiscal year which ended last June 30. New spending authority has been
held below expenditures, reducing government obligations accumulated over the years.

Last year we had a large tax cut and, for the first time in seventy-five years a basic revision
of Federal tax laws. It is now clear that defense and other essential government costs must
remain at a level precluding further tax reductions this year. Although excise and corporation
income taxes must, therefore, be continued at their present rates, further tax cuts will be
possible when justified by lower expenditures and by revenue increases arising from the nation's
economic growth. I am hopeful that such reductions can be made next year.

At the foundation of our economic growth are the raw materials and energy produced from our
minerals and fuels, lands and forests, and water resources. With respect to them, I believe
that the nation must adhere to three fundamental policies: first, to develop, wisely use and
conserve basic resources from generation to generation; second, to follow the historic pattern
of developing these resources primarily by private citizens under fair provisions of law, including
restraints for proper conservation; and third, to treat resource development as a partnership
undertaking--a partnership in which the participation of private citizens and State and local
governments is as necessary as Federal participation.

This policy of partnership and cooperation is producing good results, most immediately noticeable
in respect to water resources. First, it has encouraged local public bodies and private citizens
to plan their own power sources. Increasing numbers of applications to the Federal Power Commission
to conduct surveys and prepare plans for power development, notably in the Columbia River Basin,
are evidence of local response.

Second, the Federal Government and local and private organizations have been encouraged to
coordinate their developments. This is important because Federal hydroelectric developments
supply but a small fraction of the nation's power needs. Such partnership projects as Priest
Rapids in Washington, the Coosa River development in Alabama, and Markham Ferry in Oklahoma
already have the approval of the Congress. This year justifiable projects of a similar nature
will again have Administration support.

Third, the Federal Government must shoulder its own partnership obligations by undertaking
projects of such complexity and size that their success requires Federal development. In keeping
with this principle, I again urge the Congress to approve the development of the Upper Colorado
River Basin to conserve and assure better use of precious water essential to the future of
the West.

In addition, the 1956 budget will recommend appropriations to start six new reclamation and
more than thirty new Corps of Engineers projects of varying size. Going projects and investigations
of potential new resource developments will be continued.

Although this partnership approach is producing encouraging results, its full success requires
a nation-wide comprehensive water resources policy firmly based in law. Such a policy is under
preparation and when completed will be submitted to the Congress.

In the interest of their proper conservation, development and use, continued vigilance will
be maintained over our fisheries, wildlife resources, the national parks and forests, and the
public lands; and we shall continue to encourage an orderly development of the nation's mineral
resources.

A modern, efficient highway system is essential to meet the needs of our growing population,
our expanding economy, and our national security. We are accelerating our highway improvement
program as rapidly as possible under existing State and Federal laws and authorizations. However,
this effort will not in itself assure our people of an adequate highway system. On my recommendation,
this problem has been carefully considered by the Conference of State Governors and by a special
Advisory Committee on a National Highway Program, composed of leading private citizens. I have
received the recommendations of the Governors' Conference and will shortly receive the views
of the special Advisory Committee. Aided by their findings, I shall submit on January 27th
detailed recommendations which will meet our most pressing national highway needs.

In further recognition of the importance of transportation to our economic strength and security,
the Administration, through a Cabinet committee, is thoroughly examining existing Federal transportation
policies to determine their effect on the adequacy of transportation services. This is the
first such comprehensive review directly undertaken by the Executive Branch of the government
in modern times. We are not only examining major problems facing the various modes of transport;
we are also studying closely the inter-relationships of civilian and government requirements
for transportation. Legislation will be recommended to correct policy deficiencies which we
may find.

The nation's public works activities are tremendous in scope. It is expected that more than
$ 12 billion will be expended in 1955 for the development of land, water and other resources;
control of floods, and navigation and harbor improvements; construction of roads, schools,
and municipal water supplies, and disposal of domestic and industrial wastes. Many of the Federal,
State and local agencies responsible for this work are, in their separate capacities, highly
efficient. But public works activities are closely inter-related and have a substantial influence
on the growth of the country. Moreover, in times of threatening economic contraction, they
may become a valuable sustaining force. To these ends, efficient planning and execution of
the nation's public works require both the coordination of Federal activities and effective
cooperation with State and local governments.

The Council of Economic Advisers, through its public works planning section, has made important
advances during the past year in effecting this coordination and cooperation. In view of the
success of these initial efforts, and to give more emphasis and continuity to this essential
coordination, I shall request the Congress to appropriate funds for the support of an Office
of Coordinator of Public Works in the Executive Office of the President.

A most significant element in our growing economy is an agriculture that is stable, prosperous
and free. The problems of our agriculture have evolved over many years and cannot be solved
overnight; nevertheless, governmental actions last year hold great promise of fostering a better
balance between production and markets and, consequently, a better and more stable income for
our farmers.

Through vigorous administration and through new authority provided by the 83rd Congress, surplus
farm products are now moving into consumption. From February 1953 through November 1954, the
rate of increase of government-held surpluses has been reduced by our moving into use more
than 2.3 billion dollars' worth of government-owned farm commodities; this amount is equal
to more than seven percent of a year's production of all our farms and ranches. Domestic consumption
remains high, and farm exports will be higher than last year. As a result of the flexibility
provided by the Agricultural Act of 1954, we can move toward less restrictive acreage controls.

Thus, farm production is gradually adjusting to markets, markets are being expanded, and stocks
are moving into use. We can now look forward to an easing of the influences depressing farm
prices, to reduced government expenditures for purchase of surplus products, and to less Federal
intrusion into the lives and plans of our farm people. Agricultural programs have been redirected
toward better balance, greater stability and sustained prosperity. We are headed in the right
direction. I urgently recommend to the Congress that we continue resolutely on this road.

Greater attention must be directed to the needs of low-income farm families. Twenty-eight per
cent of our farm-operator families have net cash incomes of less than $1,000 per year. Last
year, at my request, careful studies were made of the problems of these farm people. I shall
later submit recommendations designed to assure the steady alleviation of their most pressing
concerns.

Because drought also remains a serious agricultural problem, I shall recommend legislation
to strengthen Federal disaster assistance programs. This legislation will prescribe an improved
appraisal of need, better adjustment of the various programs to local conditions, and a more
equitable sharing of costs between the States and the Federal Government.

The prosperity of our small business enterprises is an indispensable element in the maintenance
of our economic strength. Creation of the Small Business Administration and recently enacted
tax laws facilitating small business expansion are but two of many important steps we have
taken to encourage our smaller enterprises. I recommend that the Congress extend the Small
Business Act of 1953 which is due to expire next June.

We come now to the third great purpose of our government-its concern for the health, productivity
and well-being of all our people.

Every citizen wants to give full expression to his God-given talents and abilities and to have
the recognition and respect accorded under our religious and political traditions. Americans
also want a good material standard of living--not simply to accumulate possessions, but to
fulfill a legitimate aspiration for an environment in which their families may live meaningful
and happy lives. Our people are committed, therefore, to the creation and preservation of opportunity
for every citizen to lead a more rewarding life. They are equally committed to the alleviation
of misfortune and distress among their fellow citizens.

The aspirations of most of our people can best be fulfilled through their own enterprise and
initiative, without government interference. This Administration, therefore, follows two simple
rules: first, the Federal Government should perform an essential task only when it cannot otherwise
be adequately performed; and second, in performing that task, our government must not impair
the self-respect, freedom and incentive of the individual. So long as these two rules are observed,
the government can fully meet its obligation without creating a dependent population or a domineering
bureaucracy.

During the past two years, notable advances were made in these functions of government. Protection
of old-age and survivors' insurance was extended to an additional ten million of our people,
and the benefits were substantially increased. Legislation was enacted to provide unemployment
insurance protection to some four million additional Americans. Stabilization of living costs
and the halting of inflation protected the value of pensions and savings. A broad program now
helps to bring good homes within the reach of the great majority of our people. With the States,
we are providing rehabilitation facilities and more clinics, hospitals, and nursing homes for
patients with chronic illnesses. Also with the States, we have begun a great and fruitful expansion
in the restoration of disabled persons to employment and useful lives. In the areas of Federal
responsibility, we have made historic progress in eliminating from among our people demeaning
practices based on race or color.

All of us may be proud of these achievements during the past two years. Yet essential Federal
tasks remain to be done.

As part of our efforts to provide decent, safe and sanitary housing for low-income families,
we must carry forward the housing program authorized during the 83rd Congress. We must also
authorize contracts for a firm program of 35,000 additional public housing units in each of
the next two fiscal years. This program will meet the most pressing obligations of the Federal
Government into the 1958 fiscal year for planning and building public housing. By that time
the private building industry, aided by the Housing Act of 1954, will have had the opportunity
to assume its full role in providing adequate housing for our low income families.

The health of our people is one of our most precious assets. Preventable sickness should be
prevented; knowledge available to combat disease and disability should be fully used. Otherwise,
we as a people are guilty not only of neglect of human suffering but also of wasting our national
strength.

Constant advances in medical care are not available to enough of our citizens. Clearly our
nation must do more to reduce the impact of accident and disease. Two fundamental problems
confront us: first, high and ever-rising costs of health services; second, serious gaps and
shortages in these services.

By special message on January 24, I shall propose a coordinated program to strengthen and improve
existing health services. This program will continue to reject socialized medicine. It will
emphasize individual and local responsibility. Under it the Federal Government will neither
dominate nor direct, but serve as a helpful partner. Within this framework, the program can
be broad in scope.

My recommendations will include a Federal health reinsurance service to encourage the development
of more and better voluntary health insurance coverage by private organizations. I shall also
recommend measures to improve the medical care of that group of our citizens who, because of
need, receive Federal-State public assistance. These two proposals will help more of our people
to meet the costs of health services.

To reduce the gaps in these services, I shall propose:

New measures to facilitate construction of needed health facilities and help reduce shortages
of trained health personnel;

Vigorous steps to combat the misery and national loss involved in mental illness;

Improved services for crippled children and for maternal and child health;

Better consumer protection under our existing pure food and drug laws; and, finally,

Strengthened programs to combat the increasingly serious pollution of our rivers and streams
and the growing problem of air pollution.

These measures together constitute a comprehensive program holding rich promise for better
health for all of our people.

Last year's expansion of social security coverage and our new program of improved medical care
for public assistance recipients together suggest modification of the formula for Federal sharing
in old age assistance payments. I recommend modification of the formula where such payments
will, in the future, supplement benefits received under the old age and survivors insurance system.

It is the inalienable right of every person, from childhood on, to have access to knowledge.
In our form of society, this right of the individual takes on a special meaning, for the education
of all our citizens is imperative to the maintenance and invigoration of America's free institutions.

Today, we face grave educational problems. Effective and up-to-date analyses of these problems
and their solutions are being carried forward through the individual State conferences and
the White House Conference to be completed this year.

However, such factors as population growth, additional responsibilities of schools, and increased
and longer school attendance have produced an unprecedented classroom shortage. This shortage
is of immediate concern to all of our people. Positive, affirmative action must be taken now.

Without impairing in any way the responsibilities of our States, localities, communities, or
families, the Federal government can and should serve as an effective-catalyst in dealing with
this problem. I shall forward a special message to the Congress on February 15, presenting
an affirmative program dealing with this shortage.

To help the States do a better and more timely job, we must strengthen their resources for
preventing and dealing with juvenile delinquency. I shall propose Federal legislation to assist
the States to promote concerted action in dealing with this nationwide problem. I shall carry
forward the vigorous efforts of the Administration to improve the international control of
the traffic in narcotics and, in cooperation with State and local agencies, to combat narcotic
addiction in our country.

I should like to speak now of additional matters of importance to all our people and especially
to our wage earners.

During the past year certain industrial changes and the readjustment of the economy to conditions
of peace brought unemployment and other difficulties to various localities and industries.
These problems are engaging our most earnest attention. But for the overwhelming majority of
our working people, the past year has meant good jobs. Moreover, the earnings and savings of
our wage earners are no longer depreciating in value. Because of cooperative relations between
labor and management, fewer working days were lost through strikes in 1954 than in any year
in the past decade.

The outlook for our wage earners can be made still more promising by several legislative actions.

First, in the past five years we have had economic growth which will support an increase in
the Federal minimum wage. In the light of present economic conditions, I recommend its increase
to ninety cents an hour. I also recommend that many others, at present excluded, be given the
protection of a minimum wage.

Second, I renew my recommendation of last year for amendment of the Labor Management Relations
Act of 1947 to further the basic objectives of this statute. I especially call to the attention
of the Congress amendments dealing with the right of economic strikers to vote in representation
elections and the need for equalizing the obligation under the Act to file disclaimers of Communist
affiliation.

Third, the Administration will propose other important measures including occupational safety,
workmen's compensation for longshoremen and harbor workers, and the "Eight Hour Laws" applicable
to Federal contractors. Legislation will also be proposed respecting nonoccupational disability
insurance and unemployment compensation in the District of Columbia.

In considering human needs, the Federal Government must take special responsibility for citizens
in its direct employ. On January 11 I shall propose a pay adjustment plan for civilian employees
outside the Postal Field Service to correct inequities and increase individual pay rates. I
shall also recommend voluntary health insurance on a contributory basis for Federal employees
and their dependents. In keeping with the Group Life Insurance Act passed in the 83rd Congress,
this protection should be provided on the group insurance principle and purchased from private
facilities. Also on January 11 I shall recommend a modern pay plan, including pay increases,
for postal field employees. As part of this program, and to carry forward our progress toward
elimination of the large annual postal deficit. I shall renew my request for an increase in
postal rates. Again I urge that in the future the fixing of rates be delegated to an impartial,
independent body.

More adequate training programs to equip career employees of the government to render improved
public service will be recommended, as will improvements in the laws affecting employees serving
on foreign assignments.

Needed improvements in survivor, disability, and retirement benefits for Federal civilian and
military personnel have been extensively considered by the Committee on Retirement Policy for
Federal personnel. The Committee's proposals would strengthen and improve benefits for our
career people in government, and I endorse their broad objectives. Full contributory coverage
under old-age and survivors' insurance should be made available to all Federal personnel, just
as in private industry. For career military personnel, the protection of the old-age and survivors'
insurance system would be an important and long-needed addition, especially to their present
unequal and inadequate survivorship protection. The military retirement pay system should remain
separate and unchanged. Certain adjustments in the present civilian personnel retirement systems
will be needed to reflect the additional protection of old-age and survivors' insurance. However,
these systems also are a basic part of a total compensation and should be separately and independently
retained.

I also urge the Congress to approve a long overdue increase in the salaries of Members of the
Congress and of the Federal judiciary to a level commensurate with their heavy responsibilities.

Our concern for the individual in our country requires that we consider several additional
problems.

We must continue our program to help our Indian citizens improve their lot and make their full
contribution to national life. Two years ago I advised the Congress of injustices under existing
immigration laws. Through humane administration, the Department of Justice is doing what it
legally can to alleviate hardships. Clearance of aliens before arrival has been initiated,
and except for criminal offenders, the imprisonment of aliens awaiting admission or deportation
has been stopped. Certain provisions of law, however, have the effect of compelling action
in respect to aliens which are inequitable in some instances and discriminatory in others.
These provisions should be corrected in this session of the Congress.

As the complex problems of Alaska are resolved, that Territory should expect to achieve statehood.
In the meantime, there is no justification for deferring the admission to statehood of Hawaii.
I again urge approval of this measure.

We have three splendid opportunities to demonstrate the strength of our belief in the right
of suffrage. First, I again urge that a Constitutional amendment be submitted to the States
to reduce the voting age for Federal elections. Second, I renew my request that the principle
of self-government be extended and the right of suffrage granted to the citizens of the District
of Columbia. Third, I again recommend that we work with the States to preserve the voting fights
of citizens in the nation's service overseas.

In our determination to keep faith with those who in the past have met the highest call of
citizenship, we now have under study the system of benefits for veterans and for surviving
dependents of deceased veterans and servicemen. Studies will be undertaken to determine the
need for measures to ease the readjustment to civilian life of men required to enter the armed
forces for two years of service.

In the advancement of the various activities which will make our civilization endure and flourish,
the Federal Government should do more to give official recognition to the importance of the
arts and other cultural activities. I shall recommend the establishment of a Federal Advisory
Commission on the Arts within the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, to advise the
Federal Government on ways to encourage artistic endeavor and appreciation. I shall also propose
that awards of merit be established whereby we can honor our fellow citizens who make great
contribution to the advancement of our civilization.

Every citizen rightly expects efficient and economical administration of these many government
programs I have outlined today. I strongly recommend extension of the Reorganization Act and
the law establishing the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations, both of which expire this
spring. Thus the Congress will assure continuation of the excellent progress recently made
in improving government organization and administration. In this connection we are looking
forward with great interest to the reports which will soon be going to the Congress from the
Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government. I am sure that these
studies, made under the chairmanship of former President Herbert Hoover with the assistance
of more than two hundred distinguished citizens, will be of great value in paving the way toward
more efficiency and economy in the government.

And now, I return to the point at which I began--the faith of our people.

The many programs here summarized are, I believe, in full keeping with their needs, interests
and aspirations. The obligations upon us are clear:

To labor earnestly, patiently, prayerfully, for peace, for freedom, for justice, throughout
the world;

To keep our economy vigorous and free, that our people may lead fuller, happier lives;

To advance, not merely by our words but by our acts, the determination of our government that
every citizen shall have opportunity to develop to his fullest capacity.

As we do these things, before us is a future filled with opportunity and hope. That future
will be ours if in our time we keep alive the patience, the courage, the confidence in tomorrow,
the deep faith, of the millions who, in years past, made and preserved us this nation.

A decade ago, in the death and desolation of European battlefields, I saw the courage and resolution,
I felt the inspiration, of American youth. In these young men I felt America's buoyant confidence
and irresistible will-to-do. In them I saw, too, a devout America, humble before God.

And so, I know with all my heart--and I deeply believe that all Americans know--that, despite
the anxieties of this divided world, our faith, and the cause in which we all believe, will
surely prevail.

The address as reported from the floor appears in the Congressional Record (vol. 101, p. 94).

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower January 5, 1956

To the Congress of the United States:

The opening of this new year must arouse in us all grateful thanks to a kind Providence whose
protection has been ever present and whose bounty has been manifold and abundant. The State
of the Union today demonstrates what can be accomplished under God by a free people; by their
vision, their understanding of national problems, their initiative, their self-reliance, their
capacity for work--and by their willingness to sacrifice whenever sacrifice is needed.

In the past three years, responding to what our people want their Government to do, the Congress
and the Executive have done much in building a stronger, better America. There has been broad
progress in fostering the energies of our people, in providing greater opportunity for the
satisfaction of their needs, and in fulfilling their demands for the strength and security
of the Republic.

Our country is at peace. Our security posture commands respect. A spiritual vigor marks our
national life. Our economy, approaching the 400 billion dollar mark, is at an unparalleled
level of prosperity. The national income is more widely and fairly distributed than ever before.
The number of Americans at work has reached an all-time high. As a people, we are achieving
ever higher standards of living--earning more, producing more, consuming more, building more
and investing more than ever before.

Virtually all sectors of our society are sharing in these good times. Our farm families, if
we act wisely, imaginatively and promptly to strengthen our present farm programs, can also
look forward to sharing equitably in the prosperity they have helped to create.

War in Korea ended two and a half years ago. The collective security system has been powerfully
strengthened. Our defenses have been reinforced at sharply reduced costs. Programs to expand
world trade and to harness the atom for the betterment of mankind have been carried forward.
Our economy has been freed from governmental wage and price controls. Inflation has been halted;
the cost of living stabilized.

Government spending has been cut by more than ten billion dollars. Nearly three hundred thousand
positions have been eliminated from the Federal payroll. Taxes have been substantially reduced.
A balanced budget is in prospect. Social security has been extended to ten million more Americans
and unemployment insurance to four million more. Unprecedented advances in civil rights have
been made. The long-standing and deep-seated problems of agriculture have been forthrightly
attacked.

This record of progress has been accomplished with a self imposed caution against unnecessary
and unwise interference in the private affairs of our people, of their communities and of the
several States.

If we of the Executive and Legislative Branches, keeping this caution ever in mind, address
ourselves to the business of the year before us--and to the unfinished business of last year--with
resolution, the outlook is bright with promise.

Many measures of great national importance recommended last year to the Congress still demand
immediate attention legislation for school and highway construction; health and immigration
legislation; water resources legislation; legislation to complete the implementation of our
foreign economic policy; such labor legislation as amendments of the Labor-Management Relations
Act, extension of the Fair Labor Standards Act to additional groups not now covered, and occupational
safety legislation; and legislation for construction of an atomic-powered exhibit vessel.

Many new items of business likewise require our attention-measures that will further promote
the release of the energies of our people; that will broaden opportunity for all of them; that
will advance the Republic in its leadership toward a just peace; measures, in short, that are
essential to the building of an everstronger, ever-better America.

Every political and economic guide supports a valid confidence that wise effort will be rewarded
by an even more plentiful harvest of human benefit than we now enjoy. Our resources are too
many, our principles too dynamic, our purposes too worthy and the issues at stake too immense
for us to entertain doubt or fear. But our responsibilities require that we approach this year's
business with a sober humility.

A heedless pride in our present strength and position would blind us to the facts of the past,
to the pitfalls of the future. We must walk ever in the knowledge that we are enriched by a
heritage earned in the labor and sacrifice of our forebears; that, for our children's children,
we are trustees of a great Republic and a time-tested political system; that we prosper as
a cooperating member of the family of nations.

In this light the Administration has continued work on its program for the Republic, begun
three years ago. Because the vast spread of national and human interests is involved within
it, I shall not in this Message attempt its detailed delineation. Instead, from time to time
during this Session, there will be submitted to the Congress specific recommendations within
specific fields. In the comprehensive survey required for their preparation, the Administration
is guided by enduring objectives. The first is:

THE DISCHARGE OF OUR WORLD RESPONSIBILITY

Our world policy and our actions are dedicated to the achievement of peace with justice for
all nations.

With this purpose, we move in a wide variety of ways and through many agencies to remove the
pall of fear; to strengthen the ties with our partners and to improve the cooperative cohesion
of the free world; to reduce the burden of armaments, and to stimulate and inspire action among
all nations for a world of justice and prosperity and peace. These national objectives are
fully supported by both our political parties.

In the past year, our search for a more stable and just peace has taken varied forms. Among
the most important were the two Conferences at Geneva, in July and in the fall of last year.
We explored the possibilities of agreement on critical issues that jeopardize the peace.

The July meeting of Heads of Government held out promise to the world of moderation in the
bitterness, of word and action, which tends to generate conflict and war. All were in agreement
that a nuclear war would be an intolerable disaster which must not be permitted to occur. But
in October, when the Foreign Ministers met again, the results demonstrated conclusively that
the Soviet leaders are not yet willing to create the indispensable conditions for a secure
and lasting peace.

Nevertheless, it is clear that the conflict between international communism and freedom has
taken on a new complexion.

We know the Communist leaders have often practiced the tactics of retreat and zigzag. We know
that Soviet and Chinese communism still poses a serious threat to the free world. And in the
Middle East recent Soviet moves are hardly compatible with the reduction of international tension.

Yet Communist tactics against the free nations have shifted in emphasis from reliance on violence
and the threat of violence to reliance on division, enticement and duplicity. We must be well
prepared to meet the current tactics which pose a dangerous though less obvious threat. At
the same time, our policy must be dynamic as well as flexible, designed primarily to forward
the achievement of our own objectives rather than to meet each shift and change on the Communist
front. We must act in the firm assurance that the fruits of freedom are more attractive and
desirable to mankind in the pursuit of happiness than the record of Communism.

In the face of Communist military power, we must, of course, continue to maintain an effective
system of collective security. This involves two things--a system which gives clear warning
that armed aggression will be met by joint action of the free nations, and deterrent military
power to make that warning effective. Moreover, the awesome power of the atom must be made
to serve as a guardian of the free community and of the peace.

In the last year, the free world has seen major gains for the system of collective security:
the accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Western European Union of the sovereign
Federal German Republic; the developing cooperation under the Southeast Asia Collective Defense
Treaty; and the formation in the Middle East of the Baghdad Pact among Turkey, Iraq, Iran,
Pakistan and the United Kingdom. In our own hemisphere, the inter-American system has continued
to show its vitality in maintaining peace and a common approach to world problems. We now have
security pacts with more than 40 other nations.

In the pursuit of our national purposes, we have been steadfast in our support of the United
Nations, now entering its second decade with a wider membership and ever-increasing influence
and usefulness. In the release of our fifteen fliers from Communist China, an essential prelude
was the world opinion mobilized by the General Assembly, which condemned their imprisonment
and demanded their liberation. The successful Atomic Energy Conference held in Geneva under
United Nations auspices and our Atoms for Peace program have been practical steps toward the
world-wide use of this new energy source. Our sponsorship of such use has benefited our relations
with other countries. Active negotiations are now in progress to create an International Agency
to foster peaceful uses of atomic energy.

During the past year the crucial problem of disarmament has moved to the forefront of practical
political endeavor. At Geneva, I declared the readiness of the United States to exchange blueprints
of the military establishments of our nation and the USSR, to be confirmed by reciprocal aerial
reconnaissance. By this means, I felt mutual suspicions could be allayed and an atmosphere
developed in which negotiations looking toward limitation of arms would have improved chances
of success.

In the United Nations Subcommittee on Disarmament last fall, this proposal was explored and
the United States also declared itself willing to include reciprocal ground inspection of key
points. By the overwhelming vote of 56 to 7, the United Nations on December 16 endorsed these
proposals and gave them a top priority. Thereby, the issue is placed squarely before the bar
of world opinion. We shall persevere in seeking a general reduction of armaments under effective
inspection and control which are essential safeguards to ensure reciprocity and protect the
security of all.

In the coming year much remains to be done.

While maintaining our military deterrent, we must intensify our efforts to achieve a just peace.
In Asia we shall continue to give help to nations struggling to maintain their freedom against
the threat of Communist coercion or subversion. In Europe we shall endeavor to increase not
only the military strength of the North Atlantic Alliance but also its political cohesion and
unity of purpose. We shall give such assistance as is feasible to the recently renewed effort
of Western European nations to achieve a greater measure of integration, such as in the field
of peaceful uses of atomic energy.

In the Near East we shall spare no effort in seeking to promote a fair solution of the tragic
dispute between the Arab States and Israel, all of whom we want as our friends. The United
States is ready to do its part to assure enduring peace in that area. We hope that both sides
will make the contributions necessary to achieve that purpose. In Latin America, we shall continue
to cooperate vigorously in trade and other measures designed to assist economic progress in
the area.

Strong economic ties are an essential element in our free world partnership. Increasing trade
and investment help all of us prosper together. Gratifying progress has been made in this direction,
most recently by the three-year extension of our trade agreements legislation.

I most earnestly request that the Congress approve our membership in the Organization for Trade
Cooperation, which would assist the carrying out of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
to which we have been a party since 1948. Our membership in the OTC will provide the most effective
and expeditious means for removing discriminations and restrictions against American exports
and in making our trade agreements truly reciprocal. United States membership in the Organization
will evidence our continuing desire to cooperate in promoting an expanded trade among the free
nations. Thus the Organization, as proposed, is admirably suited to our own interests and to
those of like-minded nations in working for steady expansion of trade and closer economic cooperation.
Being strictly an administrative entity, the Organization for Trade Cooperation cannot, of
course, alter the control by Congress of the tariff, import, and customs policies of the United
States.

We need to encourage investment overseas by avoiding unfair tax duplications, and to foster
foreign trade by further simplification and improvement of our customs legislation.

We must sustain and fortify our Mutual Security Program. Because the conditions of poverty
and unrest in less developed areas make their people a special target of international communism,
there is a need to help them achieve the economic growth and stability necessary to preserve
their independence against communist threats and enticements.

In order that our friends may better achieve the greater strength that is our common goal,
they need assurance of continuity in economic assistance for development projects and programs
which we approve and which require a period of years for planning and completion. Accordingly,
I ask Congress to grant limited authority to make longer-term commitments for assistance to
such projects, to be fulfilled from appropriations to be made in future fiscal years.

These various steps will powerfully strengthen the economic foundation of our foreign policy.
Together with constructive action abroad, they will maintain the present momentum toward general
economic progress and vitality of the free world.

In all things, change is the inexorable law of life. In much of the world the ferment of change
is working strongly; but grave injustices are still uncorrected. We must not, by any sanction
of ours, help to perpetuate these wrongs. I have particularly in mind the oppressive division
of the German people, the bondage of millions elsewhere, and the exclusion of Japan from United
Nations membership.

We shall keep these injustices in the forefront of human consciousness and seek to maintain
the pressure of world opinion to fight these vast wrongs in the interest both of justice and
secure peace.

Injustice thrives on ignorance. Because an understanding of the truth about America is one
of our most powerful forces, I am recommending a substantial increase in budgetary support
of the United States Information Agency.

The sum of our international effort should be this: the waging of peace, with as much resourcefulness,
with as great a sense of dedication and urgency, as we have ever mustered in defense of our
country in time of war. In this effort, our weapon is not force. Our weapons are the principles
and ideas embodied in our historic traditions, applied with the same vigor that in the past
made America a living promise of freedom for all mankind.

To accomplish these vital tasks, all of us should be concerned with the strength, effectiveness
and morale .of our State Department and our Foreign Service.

Another guide in the preparation of the Administration's program is:

THE CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT OF OUR NATIONAL SECURITY

Because peace is the keystone of our national policy, our defense program emphasizes an effective
flexible type of power calculated to deter or repulse any aggression and to preserve the peace.
Short of war, we have never had military strength better adapted to our needs with improved
readiness for emergency use. The maintenance of this strong military capability for the indefinite
future will continue to call for a large share of our national budget. Our military programs
must meet the needs of today. To build less would expose the nation to aggression. To build
excessively, under the influence of fear, could defeat our purposes and impair or destroy the
very freedom and economic system our military defenses are designed to protect.

We have improved the effectiveness and combat readiness of our forces by developing and making
operational new weapons and by integrating the latest scientific developments, including new
atomic weapons, into our military plans. We continue to push the production of the most modern
military aircraft. The development of long-range missiles has been on an accelerated basis
for some time. We are moving as rapidly as practicable toward nuclear-powered aircraft and
ships. Combat capability, especially in terms of firepower, has been substantially increased.
We have made the adjustments in personnel permitted by the cessation of the Korean War, the
buildup of our allies and the introduction of new weapons. The services are all planning realistically
on a long-term basis.

To strengthen our continental defenses the United States and Canada, in the closest cooperation,
have substantially augmented early warning networks. Great progress is being made in extending
surveillance of the Arctic, the Atlantic and the Pacific approaches to North America.

In the last analysis our real strength lies in the caliber of the men and women in our Armed
Forces, active and Reserve. Much has been done to attract and hold capable military personnel,
but more needs to be done. This year, I renew my request of last year for legislation to provide
proper medical care for military dependents and a more equitable survivors' benefit program.
The Administration will prepare additional recommendations designed to achieve the same objectives,
including career incentives for medical and dental officers and nurses, and increases in the
proportion of regular officers.

Closely related to the mission of the Defense Department is the task of the Federal Civil Defense
Administration. A particular point of relationship arises from the fact that the key to civil
defense is the expanded continental defense program, including the distant early warning system.
Our Federal civil defense authorities have made progress in their program, and now comprehensive
studies are being conducted jointly by the Federal Civil Defense Administration, the States,
and critical target cities to determine the best procedures that can be adopted in case of
an atomic attack. We must strengthen Federal assistance to the States and cities in devising
the most effective common defense.

We have a broad and diversified mobilization base. We have the facilities, materials, skills
and knowledge rapidly to expand the production of things we need for our defense whenever they
are required. But mobilization base requirements change with changing technology and strategy.
We must maintain flexibility to meet new requirements. I am requesting, therefore, that the
Congress once again extend the Defense Production Act.

Of great importance to our nation's security is a continuing alertness to internal subversive
activity within or without our government. This Administration will not relax its efforts to
deal forthrightly and vigorously in protection of this government and its citizens against
subversion, at the same time fully protecting the constitutional rights of all citizens.

A third objective of the Administration is:

FISCAL INTEGRITY

A public office is, indeed, a public trust. None of its aspects is more demanding than the
proper management of the public finances. I refer now not only to the indispensable virtues
of plain honesty and trustworthiness but also to the prudent, effective and conscientious use
of tax money. I refer also to the attitude of mind that makes efficient and economical service
to the people a watchword in our government.

Over the long term, a balanced budget is a sure index to thrifty management--in a home, in
a business or in the Federal Government. When achievement of a balanced budget is for long
put off in a business or home, bankruptcy is the result. But in similar circumstances a government
resorts to inflation of the money supply. This inevitably results in depreciation of the value
of the money, and an increase in the cost of living. Every investment in personal security
is threatened by this process of inflation, and the real values of the people's savings, whether
in the form of insurance, bonds, pension and retirement funds or savings accounts are thereby
shriveled.

We have made long strides these past three years in bringing our Federal finances under control.
The deficit for fiscal year 1953 was almost 9-1/2 billion dollars. Larger deficits seemed certain--deficits
which would have depreciated the value of the dollar and pushed the cost of living still higher.
But government waste and extravagance were searched out. Nonessential activities were dropped.
Government expenses were carefully scrutinized. Total spending was cut by 14 billion dollars
below the amount planned by the previous Administration for the fiscal year 1954.

This made possible--and it was appropriate in the existing circumstances of transition to a
peacetime economy--the largest tax cut in any year in our history. Almost 7-1/2 billion dollars
were released and every taxpayer in the country benefited. Almost two-thirds of the savings
went directly to individuals. This tax cut also helped to build up the economy, to make jobs
in industry and to increase the production .of the many things desired to improve the scale
of living for the great majority of Americans.

The strong expansion of the economy, coupled with a constant care for efficiency in government
operations and an alert guard against waste and duplication, has brought us to a prospective
balance between income and expenditure. This is being done while we continue to strengthen
our military security.

I expect the budget to be in balance during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1956.

I shall propose a balanced budget for the next fiscal year ending June 30, 1957.

But the balance we are seeking cannot be accomplished without the continuing every-day effort
of the Executive and Legislative Branches to keep expenditures under control. It will also
be necessary to continue all of the present excise taxes without any reduction and the corporation
income taxes at their present rates for another year beyond next April 1st.

It is unquestionably true that our present tax level is very burdensome and, in the interest
of long term and continuous economic growth, should be reduced when we prudently can. It is
essential, in the sound management of the Government's finances, that we be mindful of our
enormous national debt and of the obligation we have toward future Americans to reduce that
debt whenever we can appropriately do so. Under conditions of high peacetime prosperity, such
as now exist, we can never justify going further into debt to give ourselves a tax cut at the
expense of our children. So, in the present state of our financial affairs, I earnestly believe
that a tax cut can be deemed justifiable only when it will not unbalance the budget, a budget
which makes provision for some reduction, even though modest, in our national debt. In this
way we can best maintain fiscal integrity.

A fourth aim of our program is:

TO FOSTER A STRONG ECONOMY

Our competitive enterprise system depends on the energy of free human beings, limited by prudent
restraints in law, using free markets to plan, organize and distribute production, and spurred
by the prospect of reward for successful effort. This system has developed our resources. It
has marvelously expanded our productive capacity. Against the record of all other economic
systems devised through the ages, this competitive system has proved the most creative user
of human skills in the development of physical resources, and the richest rewarder of human effort.

This is still true in this era when improved living standards and rising national requirements
are accompanied by swift advances in technology and rapid obsolescence in machines and methods.
Typical of these are the strides made in construction of plants to produce electrical energy
from atomic power and of laboratories and installations for the application of this new force
in industry, agriculture and the healing arts. These developments make it imperative--to assure
effective functioning of our enterprise system--that the Federal Government concern itself
with certain broad areas of our economic life. Most important of these is:

Agriculture

Our farm people are not sharing as they should in the general prosperity. They alone of all
major groups have seen their incomes decline rather than rise. They are caught between two
millstones--rising production costs and declining prices. Such harm to a part of the national
economy so vitally important to everyone is of great concern to us all. No other resource is
so indispensable as the land that feeds and clothes us. No group is more fundamental to our
national life than our farmers.

In successful prosecution of the war, the nation called for the utmost effort of its farmers.
Their response was superb, their contribution unsurpassed. Farmers are not now to be blamed
for the mountainous, price-depressing surpluses produced in response to wartime policies and
laws that were too long continued. War markets are not the markets of peacetime. Failure to
recognize that basic fact by a timely adjustment of wartime legislation brought its inevitable
result in peacetime--surpluses, lower prices and lower incomes for our farmers.

The dimensions of government responsibility are as broad and complex as the farm problem itself.
We are here concerned not only with our essential continuing supplies of food and fiber, but
also with a way of life. Both are indispensable to the well-being and strength of the nation.
Consideration of these matters must be above and beyond politics. Our national farm policy,
so vital to the welfare of farm people and all of us, must not become a field for political
warfare. Too much is at stake.

Our farm people expect of us, who have responsibility for their government, understanding of
their problems and the will to help solve them. Our objective must be to help bring production
into balance with existing and new markets, at prices that yield farmers a return for their
work in line with what other Americans get.

To reach this goal, deep-seated problems must be subjected to a stepped-up attack. There is
no single easy solution. Rather, there must be a many-sided assault on the stubborn problems
of surpluses, prices, costs, and markets; and a steady, persistent, imaginative advance in
the relationship between farmers and their government.

In a few days, by special message, I shall lay before the Congress my detailed recommendations
for new steps that should be taken promptly to speed the transition in agriculture and thus
assist our farmers to achieve their fair share of the national income.

Basic to this program will be a new attack on the surplus problem-for even the best-conceived
farm program cannot work under a multi-billion dollar weight of accumulated stocks.

I shall urge authorization of a soil bank program to alleviate the problem of diverted acres
and an overexpanded agricultural plant. This will include an acreage reserve to reduce current
and accumulated surpluses of crops in most serious difficulty, and a conservation reserve to
achieve other needed adjustments in the use of agricultural resources. I shall urge measures
to strengthen our surplus disposal activities.

I shall propose measures to strengthen individual commodity programs, to remove controls where
possible, to reduce carryovers, and to stop further accumulations of surpluses. I shall ask
the Congress to provide substantial new funds for an expanded drive on the research front,
to develop new markets, new crops, and new uses. The Rural Development Program to better the
lot of low-income farm families deserves full Congressional support. The Great Plains Program
must go forward vigorously. Advances on these and other fronts will pull down the pricedepressing
surpluses and raise farm income.

In this time of testing in agriculture, we should all together, regardless of party, carry
forward resolutely with a sound and forward looking program on which farm people may confidently
depend, now and for years to come.

I shall briefly mention four other subjects directly related to the well-being of the economy,
preliminary to their fuller discussion in the Economic Report and later communications.

Resources Conservation

I wish to re-emphasize the critical importance of the wise use and conservation of our great
natural resources of land, forests, minerals and water and their long-range development consistent
with our agricultural policy. Water in particular now plays an increasing role in industrial
processes, in the irrigation of land, in electric power, as well as in domestic uses. At the
same time, it has the potential of damage and disaster.

A comprehensive legislative program for water conservation will be submitted to the Congress
during the Session. The development of our water resources cannot be accomplished overnight.
The need is such that we must make faster progress and without delay. Therefore, I strongly
recommend that action be taken at this Session on such wholly Federal projects as the Colorado
River Storage Project and the Fryingpan-Arkansas Project; on the John Day partnership project,
and other projects which provide for cooperative action between the Federal Government and
non-Federal interests; and on legislation, which makes provision for Federal participation
in small projects under the primary sponsorship of agencies of State and local government.

During the past year the areas of our National Parks have been expanded, and new wildlife refuges
have been created. The visits of our people to the Parks have increased much more rapidly than
have the facilities to care for them. The Administration will submit recommendations to provide
more adequate facilities to keep abreast of the increasing interest of our people in the great
outdoors.

Disaster Assistance

A modern community is a complex combination of skills, specialized buildings, machines, communications
and homes. Most importantly, it involves human lives. Disaster in many forms--by flood, frost,
high winds, for instance--can destroy on a massive scale in a few hours the labor of many years.

Through the past three years the Administration has repeatedly moved into action wherever disaster
struck. The extent of State participation in relief activities, however, has been far from
uniform and, in many cases, has been either inadequate or nonexistent. Disaster assistance
legislation requires overhauling and an experimental program of flood-damage indemnities should
be undertaken. The Administration will make detailed recommendations on these subjects.

Area Redevelopment

We must help deal with the pockets of chronic unemployment that here and there mar the nation's
general industrial prosperity. Economic changes in recent years have been often so rapid and
far-reaching that areas committed to a single local resource or industrial activity have found
themselves temporarily deprived of their markets and their livelihood.

Such conditions mean severe hardship for thousands of people as the slow process of adaptation
to new circumstances goes on. This process can be speeded up. Last year I authorized a major
study of the problem to find additional steps to supplement existing programs for the redevelopment
of areas of chronic unemployment. Recommendations will be submitted, designed to supplement,
with Federal technical and loan assistance local efforts to get on with this vital job. Improving
such communities must, of course, remain the primary responsibility of the people living there
and of their States. But a soundly conceived Federal partnership program can be of real assistance
to them in their efforts.

Highway Legislation.

Legislation to provide a modern, interstate highway system is even more urgent this year than
last, for 12 months have now passed in which we have fallen further behind in road construction
needed for the personal safety, the general prosperity, the national security of the American
people. During the year, the number of motor vehicles has increased from 58 to 61 million.
During the past year over 38,000 persons lost their lives in highway accidents, while the fearful
toll of injuries and property damage has gone on unabated.

In my message of February 22, 1955, I urged that measures be taken to complete the vital 40,000
mile interstate system over a period of 10 years at an estimated Federal cost of approximately
25 billion dollars. No program was adopted.

If we are ever to solve our mounting traffic problem, the whole interstate system must be authorized
as one project, to be completed approximately within the specified time. Only in this way can
industry efficiently gear itself to the job ahead. Only in this way can the required planning
and engineering be accomplished without the confusion and waste unavoidable a piecemeal approach.
Furthermore, as I pointed out last year, the pressing nature of this problem must not lead
us to solutions outside the bounds of sound fiscal management. As in the case of other pressing
problems, there must be an adequate plan of financing. To continue the drastically needed improvement
in other national highway systems, I recommend the continuation of the Federal Aid Highway Program.

Aside from agriculture and the four subjects specifically mentioned, an integral part of our
efforts to foster a strong and expanding free economy is keeping open the door of opportunity
to new and small enterprises, checking monopoly, and preserving a competitive environment.
In this past year the steady improvement in the economic health of small business has reinforced
the vitality of our competitive economy. We shall continue to help small business concerns
to obtain access to adequate financing and to competent counsel on management, production,
and marketing problems.

Through measures already taken, opportunities for smallbusiness participation in government
procurement programs, including military procurement, are greatly improved. The effectiveness
of these measures will become increasingly apparent. We shall continue to make certain that
small business has a fair opportunity to compete and has an economic environment in which it
may prosper.

In my message last year I referred to the appointment of an advisory committee to appraise
and report to me on the deficiencies as well as the effectiveness of existing Federal transportation
policies. I have commended the fundamental purposes and objectives of the committee's report.
I earnestly recommend that the Congress give prompt attention to the committee's proposals.

Essential to a prosperous economic environment for all business, small and large--for agriculture
and industry and commerce-is efficiency in Government. To that end, exhaustive studies of the
entire governmental structure were made by the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations and
the Commission on the Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government--the reports of
these Commissions are now under intensive review and already in the process of implementation
in important areas.

One specific and most vital governmental function merits study and action by the Congress.
As part of our program of promoting efficiency in Government and getting the fiscal situation
in hand, the Post Office Department in the past three years has been overhauled. Nearly one
thousand new post offices have been provided. Financial practices have been modernized, and
transportation and operating methods are being constantly improved. A new wage and incentive
plan for the half million postal employees has been established. Never before has the postal
system handled so much mail so quickly and so economically.

The Post Office Department faces two serious problems. First, much of its physical plant--post
offices and other buildings-is obsolete and inadequate. Many new buildings and the modernization
of present ones are essential if we are to have improved mail service. The second problem is
the Department's fiscal plight. It now faces an annual deficit of one-half billion dollars.

Recommendations on postal facilities and on additional postal revenues will be submitted to
the Congress.

A final consideration in our program planning is:

THE RESPONSE TO HUMAN CONCERNS

A fundamental belief shines forth in this Republic. We believe in the worth and dignity of
the individual. We know that if we are to govern ourselves wisely--in the tradition of America--we
must have the opportunity to develop our individual capacities to the utmost.

To fulfill the individual's aspirations in the American way of life, good education is fundamental.
Good education is the outgrowth of good homes, good communities, good churches, and good schools.
Today our schools face pressing problems--problems which will not yield to swift and easy solutions,
or to any single action. They will yield only to a continuing, active, formed effort by the
people toward achieving better schools.

This kind of effort has been spurred by the thousands of conferences held in recent months
by half a million citizens and educators in all parts of the country, culminating in the White
House Conference on Education. In that Conference, some two thousand delegates, broadly representative
of the nation, studied together the problems of the nation's schools.

They concluded that the people of the United States must make a greater effort through their
local, State, and Federal Governments to improve the education of our youth. This expression
from the people must now be translated into action at all levels of government.

So far as the Federal share of responsibility is concerned, I urge that the Congress move promptly
to enact an effective program of Federal assistance to help erase the existing deficit of school
classrooms. Such a program, which should be limited to a five-year period, must operate to
increase rather than decrease local and State support of schools and to give the greatest help
to the States and localities with the least financial resources. Federal aid should in no way
jeopardize the freedom of local school systems. There will be presented to the Congress a recommended
program of Federal assistance for school construction.

Such a program should be accompanied by action to increase services to the nation's schools
by the Office of Education and by legislation to provide continuation of payments to school
districts where Federal activities have impaired the ability of those districts to provide
adequate schools.

Under the 1954 Amendments to the old-age and survivors' insurance program, protection was extended
to some 10 million additional workers and benefits were increased. The system now helps protect
9 out of 10 American workers and their families against loss of income in old age or on the
death of the breadwinner. The system is sound. It must be kept so. In developing improvements
in the system, we must give the most careful consideration to population and social trends,
and to fiscal requirements. With these considerations in mind, the Administration will present
its recommendations for further expansion of coverage and other steps which can be taken wisely
at this time.

Other needs in the area of social welfare include increased child welfare services, extension
of the program of aid to dependent children, intensified attack on juvenile delinquency, and
special attention to the problems of mentally retarded children. The training of more skilled
workers for these fields and the quest for new knowledge through research in social welfare
are essential. Similarly the problems of our aged people need our attention.

The nation has made dramatic progress in conquering disease--progress of profound human significance
which can be greatly accelerated by an intensified effort in medical research. A well-supported,
well-balanced program of research, including basic research, can open new frontiers of knowledge,
prevent and relieve suffering, and prolong life. Accordingly I shall recommend a substantial
increase in Federal funds for the support of such a program. As an integral part of this effort,
I shall recommend a new plan to aid construction of non-Federal medical research and teaching
facilities and to help provide more adequate support for the training of medical research manpower.

Finally, we must aid in cushioning the heavy and rising costs of illness and hospitalization
to individuals and families. Provision should be made, by Federal reinsurance or otherwise,
to foster extension of voluntary health insurance coverage to many more persons, especially
older persons and those in rural areas. Plans should be evolved to improve protection against
the costs of prolonged or severe illness. These measures will help reduce the dollar barrier
between many Americans and the benefits of modern medical care.

The Administration health program will be submitted to the Congress in detail.

The response of government to human concerns embraces, of course, other measures of broad public
interest, and of special interest to our working men and women. The need still exists for improvement
of the Labor Management Relations Act. The recommendations I submitted to the Congress last
year take into account not only the interests of labor and management but also the public welfare.
The needed amendments should be enacted without further delay.

We must also carry forward the job of improving the wagehour law. Last year I requested the
Congress to broaden the coverage of the minimum wage. I repeat that recommendation, and I pledge
the full resources of the Executive Branch to assist the Congress in finding ways to attain
this goal. Moreover, as requested last year, legislation should be passed to clarify and strengthen
the eight-hour laws for the benefit of workers who are subject to Federal wage standards on
Federal and Federally assisted construction and other public works.

The Administration will shortly propose legislation to assure adequate disclosure of the financial
affairs of each employee pension and welfare plan and to afford substantial protection to their
beneficiaries in accordance with the objectives outlined in my message of January 11, 1954.
Occupational safety still demands attention, as I pointed out last year, and legislation to
improve the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act is still needed. The improvement
of the District of Columbia Unemployment Insurance Law and legislation to provide employees
in the District with non-occupational disability insurance are no less necessary now than 12
months ago. Legislation to apply the principle of equal pay for equal work without discrimination
because of sex is a matter of simple justice. So it is for instance with the submerged leaves
of water-plants.

As a rule they are linear, or if compound, are reduced to densely branching filiform threads.
Hence we may conclude that this structure is of some use to them. Now two European and some
corresponding American species of water-parsnip, the Sium latifolium and Berula angustifolia
with their allies, are umbellifers, which bear pinnate instead of
bi- or tri-pinnate leaves.

But the young plants and even the young shoots when developing from the rootstocks under water
comply with the above rule, producing very compound, finely and pectinately dissected leaves.
From a systematic point of view these leaves indicate the origin of the water-parsnips from ordinary
umbellifers, which generally have bi- and tripinnate leaves.

Similar cases of double adaptation, dependent on external conditions at different periods of
the evolution of the plant are very numerous. They are most marked among leguminous plants, as
shown by the trifoliolate leaves of the thorn-broom and allies, which
in the adult state have green twigs destitute of leaves.

As an additional instance of dimorphism and probable double adaptation to unrecognized external
[458] conditions I might point to the genus Acacia. As we have seen in a previous lecture some
of the numerous species of this genus bear bi-pinnate leaves, while others have only flattened
leaf-stalks. According to the prevailing systematic conceptions, the last must have been derived
from the first by the loss of the blades and the corresponding increase
of size and superficial extension of the stalk.

In proof of this view they exhibit, as we have described, the ancestral characters in the young
plantlets, and this production of bi-pinnate leaves has probably been retained at the period
of the corresponding negative mutations, because of some distinct, though still unknown use.

Summarizing
the results of this discussion, we may state that useful dimorphism, or double adaptation,
is a substitution of characters quite analogous to the useless dimorphism
of cultivated ever-sporting varieties and the stray occurrence of
hereditary monstrosities.

The same laws and conditions prevail in both cases.

[459]

E. MUTATIONS

LECTURE XVI

THE ORIGIN OF THE PELORIC TOAD-FLAX

I have tried to show previously that species, in the ordinary sense of the word, consist of distinct
groups of units. In systematic works these groups are all designated by the name of varieties,
but it is usually granted that the units of the system are not always of the same value. Hence
we have distinguished between elementary species and varieties proper. The first are combined
into species whose common original type is now lost or unknown, and from their characters is derived
an hypothetical image of what the common ancestor is supposed to
have been.

The varieties proper are derived in most cases from still existing types, and therefore are
subjoined to them. A closer investigation has shown that this derivation is ordinarily produced by
the loss of some definite attribute, or by the re-acquisition of an apparently [460] lost character.
The elementary species, on the other hand, must have arisen by the production of new qualities,
each new acquisition constituting the origin of a new elementary
form.

Moreover we have seen, that such improvements and such losses constitute sharp limits between
the single unit-forms. Every type, of course, varies around an average, and the extremes of
one form may sometimes reach or even overlap those of the nearest allies, but the offspring of
the extremes always return to the type. The transgression is only temporary and a real transition
of one form to another does not come within ordinary features of
fluctuating variability.

Even in the cases of eversporting varieties, where two opposite types are united within one race,
and where the succeeding individuals are continually swinging from one extreme to the other, passing
through a wide range of intermediate steps, the limits of the variety are as sharply defined
and as free from real transgression as in any other form.

In a complete systematic enumeration of the real units of nature, the elementary species and
varieties are thus observed to be discontinuous and separated by definite gaps. Every unit
may have its youth, may lead a long life in the adult state and may
finally die.

But through [461] the whole period of its existence it remains the same, at the end as sharply
defined from its nearest allies as in the beginning. Should some of the units die out, the gaps
between the neighboring ones will become wider, as must often have been the case. Such segregations,
however important and useful for systematic distinctions, are evidently only of secondary value,
when considering the real nature of the units themselves.

We may now take up the other side of the problem. The question arises as to how species and varieties
have originated. According to the Darwinian theory they have been produced from one another, the
more highly differentiated ones from the simpler, in a graduated
series from the most simple forms to the most complicated and most
highly organized existing types.

This evolution of course must have been regular and continuous, diverging from time to time
into new directions, and linking all organisms together into one common pedigree. All lacunae
in our present system are explained by Darwin as due to the extinction of the forms, which previously
filled them.

Since Lamarck first propounded the conception of a common origin for all living beings, much
has been done to clear up our ideas as to the real nature of this process. The broader [462]
aspect of the subject, including the general pedigree of the animal and vegetable kingdom, may be
said to have been outlined by Darwin and his followers, but this
phase of the subject lies beyond the limits of our present discussion.

The other phase of the problem is concerned with the manner in which the single elementary species and
varieties have sprung from one another. There is no reason to suppose that the world is reaching
the end of its development, and so we are to infer that the production of new species and varieties
is still going on.

In reality, new forms are observed to originate from time to time,
both wild and in cultivation, and such facts do not leave any doubt
as to their origin from other allied types, and according to natural
and general laws.

In the wild state however, and even with cultivated plants of the
field and garden, the conditions, though allowing of the immediate
observation of the origination of new forms, are by no means favorable
for a closer inquiry into the real nature of the process.

Therefore I shall postpone the discussion of the facts till another lecture, as their bearing
will be more easily understood after having dealt with more complete cases.

These can only be obtained by direct experimentation. Comparative studies, of course, [463] are valuable
for the elucidation of general problems and broad features of the
whole pedigree, but the narrower and more practical question as to
the genetic relation of the single forms to one another must be studied
in another way, by direct experiment.

The exact methods of the laboratory must be used, and in this case the garden is the laboratory.
The cultures must be guarded with the strictest care and every precaution
taken to exclude opportunities for error.

The parents and grandparents and their offspring must be kept pure
and under control, and all facts bearing upon the birth or origin
of the new types should be carefully recorded.

Two great difficulties have of late stood in the way of such experimental investigation. One
of them is of a theoretical, the, other of a practical nature. One is the general belief in the
supposed slowness of the process, the other is the choice of adequate material for experimental
purposes.

Darwin's hypothesis of natural selection as the means by which new types arise, is now being generally
interpreted as stating the slow transformation of ordinary fluctuating divergencies from the average
type into specific differences.

But in doing so it is overlooked that Quetelet's law of fluctuating variability was not yet discovered
at the time, when Darwin propounded his theory. So there [464] is no real and intimate connection
between these two great conceptions. Darwin frequently pointed out that a long period of time
might be needed for slow improvements, and was also a condition for the occurrence of rare sports.
In any case those writers have been in error, according to my opinion, who have refrained from
experimental work on the origin of species, on account of this narrow interpretation of Darwin's
views.

The choice of the material is quite another question, and obviously all depends upon this choice.
Promising instances must be sought for, but as a rule the best way is to test as many plants
as possible. Many of them may show nothing of interest, but some might lead to the desired
end.

For to-day's lecture I have chosen an instance, in which the grounds
upon which the choice was based are very evident.

It is the origin of the peloric toad-flax (Linaria vulgaris peloria).

The ground for this choice lies simply in the fact that the peloric toad-flax is known to have
originated from the ordinary type at different times and in different countries, under more
or less divergent conditions. It had arisen from time to time, and hence I presumed that there
was a chance to see it arise again.

If this should happen under experimental circumstances [465] the
desired evidence might easily be gathered.

Or, to put it in other words, we must try to arrange things so as
to be present at the time when nature produces another of these rare
changes.

There was still another reason for choosing this plant for observational work. The step from the
ordinary toad-flax to the peloric form is short, and it appears as if it might be produced by
slow conversion. The ordinary species produces from time to time
stray peloric flowers.

These occur at the base of the raceme, or rarely in the midst of it. In other species they are
often seen at the summit. Terminal pelories are usually regular, having five equal spurs. Lateral
pelories are generally of zygomorphic structure, though of course
in a less degree than the normal bilabiate flowers, but they have
unequal spurs, the middle one being of the ordinary length, the two
neighboring being shorter, and those standing next to the opposite
side of the flower being the shortest of all.

This curious remainder of the original, symmetrical structure of the flower seems to have been
overlooked hitherto by the investigators of peloric toad-flaxes.

The peloric variety of this plant is characterized by its producing
only peloric flowers.

No single bilabiate or one-spurred flower remains.

[466] I once had a lot of nearly a hundred specimens of this fine variety, and it was a most
curious and beautiful sight to observe the many thousands of nearly regular flowers blooming at the
same time. Some degree of variability was of course present, even in a large measure. The number
of the spurs varied between four and six, transgressing these limits in some instances, but
never so far as to produce really one-spurred flowers. Comparing this variety with the ordinary
type, two ways of passing over from the one to the other might be
imagined.

One would entail a slow increase of the number of the peloric flowers on each plant, combined
with a decrease of the number of the normal ones, the other a sudden leap from one extreme to
the other without any intermediate steps. The latter might easily be overlooked in field observations
and their failure may not have the value of direct proof. They could never be overlooked, on the other
hand, in experimental culture.

The first record of the peloric toad-flax is that of Zioberg, a student
of Linnaeus, who found it in the neighborhood of Upsala.

This curious discovery was described by Rudberg in his dissertation in the year 1744. Soon afterwards
other localities were discovered by Link near Gottingen in Germany about 1791 and afterwards [467]
in the vicinity of Berlin, as stated by Ratzeburg, 1825.

Many other localities have since been indicated for it in Europe, and in my own country some
have been noted of late, as for instance near Zandvoort in 1874 and near Oldenzaal in 1896. In
both these last named cases the peloric form arose spontaneously
in places which had often been visited by botanists before the recorded
appearance, and therefore, without any doubt, they must have been
produced directly and independently by the ordinary species which
grows in the locality.

The same holds good for other occurrences of it. In many instances the variety has been recorded
to disappear after a certain lapse of time, the original specimens dying out and no new ones being
produced. Linaria is a perennial herb, multiplying itself easily by buds growing on the roots,
but even with this means of propagation its duration seems to have definite limits.

There is one other important point arguing strongly for the independent appearance of the peloric
form in its several localities. It is the difficulty of fertilization and the high degree of sterility,
even if artificially pollinated.

Bees and bumble-bees are unable to crawl into the narrow tubular flowers, and to bring the fertilizing
pollen to the stigma. Ripe capsules with seeds [468] have never been seen in the wild state. The
only writer who succeeded in sowing seeds of the peloric variety was Wildenow and he got only
very few seedlings. But even in artificial pollination the result is the same, the anthers seeming
to be seriously affected by the change.

I tried both self-fertilization and cross-pollination, and only with utmost care did I succeed
in saving barely a hundred seeds. In order to obtain them I was compelled to operate on more
than a thousand flowers on about a dozen peloric plants.

The variety being wholly barren in nature, the assumption that the
plants in the different recorded localities might have a common origin
is at once excluded.

There must have been at least nearly as many mutations as localities. This strengthens the hope
of seeing such a mutation happen in one's own garden. It should also be remembered that peloric flowers
are known to have originated in quite a number of different species of Linaria, and also with many
of the allied species within the range of the Labiatiflorae.

I will now give the description of my own experiment. Of course this did not give the expected
result in the first year. On the contrary, it was only after eight years' work that I had the
good fortune of observing the mutation.

[469] But as the whole life-history of the preceding generations had been carefully observed and
recorded, the exact interpretation of the fact was readily made.

My culture commenced in the year 1886. I chose some plants of the normal type with one or two
peloric flowers besides the bilabiate majority which I found on a locality in the neighborhood
of Hilversum in Holland. I planted the roots in my garden and from them had the first flowering
generation in the following summer.

From their seeds I grew the second generation in three following years. They flowered profusely
and produced in 1889 only one, and in 1890 only two peloric structures. I saved the seeds in 1889
and had in 1890-1891 the third generation. These plants likewise flowered only in the second
year, and gave among some thousands of symmetrical blossoms, only one five-spurred flower. I pollinated
this flower myself, and it produced abundant fruit with enough seeds for the entire culture in 1892,
and they only were sown.

Until this year my generations required two years each, owing to the perennial habit of the plants.
In this way the prospects of the culture began to decrease, and I proposed to try to heighten my
chances by having a new generation yearly. With this intention I sowed the [470] selected
seeds in a pan in the glasshouse of my laboratory and planted them
out as soon as the young stems had reached a length of some few centimeters.

Each seedling was put in a separate pot, in heavily manured soil. The pots were kept under glass
until the beginning of June, and the young plants produced during this period a number of secondary
stems from the curious hypocotylous buds which are so characteristic of the species. These
stems grew rapidly and as soon as they were strong enough, the plants
were put into the beds.

They all, at least nearly all, some twenty specimens, flowered in the following month.

I observed only one peloric flower among the large number present. I took the plant bearing this flower
and one more for the culture of the following year, and destroyed all others. These two plants grew
on the same spot, and were allowed to fertilize each other by the
agency of the bees, but were kept isolated from any other congener.

They flowered abundantly, but produced only one-spurred bilabiate flowers during the whole summer.
They matured more than 10 cu. cm. of seeds.

It is from this pair of plants that my peloric race has sprung. And as they are the ancestors
of the first closely observed case of peloric mutation, [471] it seems worth while to give
some details regarding their fertilization.

Isolated plants of Linaria vulgaris do not produce seed, even if freely pollinated by bees. Pollen
from other plants is required.

This requirement is not at all restricted to the genus Linaria, as many instances are known
to occur in different families. It is generally assumed that the pollen of any other individual of
the same species is capable of producing fertilization, although
it is to be said that a critical examination has been made in but
few instances.

This, however, is not the case, at least not in the present instance. I have pollinated a number
of plants, grown from seed of the same strain and combined them in pairs, and excluded the
visits of insects, and pollen other than that of the plant itself and that of the specimen with
which it was paired. The result was that some pairs were fertile and others barren. Counting
these two groups of pairs, I found them nearly equal in number, indicating thereby that for any
given individual the pollen of half of the others is potent, but that of the other half impotent.
From these facts we may conclude the presence of a curious case of
dimorphy, analogous to that proposed for the primroses, but without
visible differentiating marks in the flowers.

At least such opposite characters [472] have as yet not been ascertained in the case of our
toad-flax.

In order to save seed from isolated plants it is necessary, for this
reason, to have at least two individuals, and these must belong to
the two physiologically different types.

Now in the year 1892, as in other years, my plants, though separated at the outset by distances
of about 20 cm. from each other, threw out roots of far greater length,
growing in such a way as to abolish the strict isolation of the individuals.

Any plot may produce several stems from such roots, and it is manifestly impossible to decide
whether they all belong to one original plant or to the mixed roots
of several individuals.

No other strains were grown on the same bed with my plants however, and so I considered all the
stems of the little group as belonging to one plant.

But their perfect fertility showed, according to the experience described,
that there must have been at least two specimens mingled together.

Returning now to the seeds of this pair of plants, I had, of course,
not the least occasion to ascribe to it any higher value than the
harvest of former years.

The consequence was that I had no reason to make large sowings, and grew only enough young plants to
have about 50 in bloom in the summer of 1894. Among [473] these, stray peloric flowers were observed
in somewhat larger number than in the previous generations, 11 plants bearing one or two, or
even three such abnormalities. This however, could not be considered as a real advance, since
such plants may occur in varying, though ordinarily small numbers in every generation.

Besides them a single plant was seen to bear only peloric flowers; it produced racemes on several
stems and their branches. All were peloric without exception.

I kept it through the winter, taking care to preserve a complete isolation of its roots. The other
plants were wholly destroyed. Such annihilation must include both the stems and roots and the
latter of course requires considerable labor.

The following year, however, gave proof of the success of the operation, since my plant bloomed
luxuriously for the second time and remained true to the type of the first year, producing peloric
flowers exclusively.

Here we have the first experimental mutation of a normal into a peloric race. Two facts were clear and simple.
The ancestry was known for over a period of four generations, living
under the ordinary care and conditions of an experimental garden,
isolated from other toad-flaxes, but freely fertilized by bees or
at times by myself. This ancestry was quite constant as to [474] the
peloric peculiarity, remaining true to the wild type as it occurs
everywhere in my country, and showing in no respect any tendency to
the production of a new variety.

The mutation took place at once.
It was a sudden leap from the normal plants with very rare peloric
flowers to a type exclusively peloric. No intermediate steps were
observed. The parents themselves had borne thousands of flowers during
two summers, and these were inspected nearly every day, in the hope
of finding some pelories and of saving their seed separately. Only
one such flower was seen. If there had been more, say a few in every
hundred flowers, it might be allowable to consider them as previous
stages, showing a preparation of the impending change. But nothing
of this kind was observed. There was simply no visible preparation
for the sudden leap.

This leap, on the other hand, was full and complete.
No reminiscence of the former condition remained. Not a single flower
on the mutated plant reverted to the previous type. All were thoroughly
affected by the new attribute, and showed the abnormally augmented
number of spurs, the tubular structure of the corolla and the round
and narrow entrance of its throat. The whole plant departed absolutely
from the old type of its progenitors.

[475] Three ways were open
to continue my experiment. The first was indicated by the abundant
harvest from the parent-plants of the mutation. It seemed possible
to compare the numerical proportion of the mutated seeds with those
of normal plants.
There will be special recommendations dealing with such subjects as atomic energy, the furthering
of public works, the continued efforts to eliminate government competition with the businesses
of tax-paying citizens.

A number of legislative recommendations will be mentioned specifically in my forthcoming Budget
Message, which will reach you within the week. That message will also recommend such sums as
are needed to implement the proposed action.

Turning to the international scene:

The existence of a strongly armed imperialistic dictatorship poses a continuing threat to the
free world's and thus to our own Nation's security and peace. There are certain truths to be
remembered here.

First, America alone and isolated cannot assure even its own security. We must be joined by
the capability and resolution of nations that have proved themselves dependable defenders of
freedom. Isolation from them invites war. Our security is also enhanced by the immeasurable
interest that joins us with all peoples who believe that peace with justice must be preserved,
that wars of aggression are crimes against humanity.

Another truth is that our survival in today's world requires modern, adequate, dependable military
strength. Our Nation has made great strides in assuring a modern defense, so armed in new weapons,
so deployed, so equipped, that today our security force is the most powerful in our peacetime
history. It can punish heavily any enemy who undertakes to attack us. It is a major deterrent
to war.

By our research and development more efficient weapons-some of amazing capabilities--are being
constantly created. These vital efforts we shall continue. Yet we must not delude ourselves
that safety necessarily increases as expenditures for military research or forces in being
go up. Indeed, beyond a wise and reasonable level, which is always changing and is under constant
study, money spent on arms may be money wasted on sterile metal or inflated costs, thereby
weakening the very security and strength we seek.

National security requires far more than military power. Economic and moral factors play indispensable
roles. Any program that endangers our economy could defeat us. Any weakening of our national
will and resolution, any diminution of the vigor and initiative of our individual citizens,
would strike a blow at the heart of our defenses.

The finest military establishment we can produce must work closely in cooperation with the
forces of our friends. Our system of regional pacts, developed within the Charter of the United
Nations, serves to increase both our own security and the security of other nations.

This system is still a recent introduction on the world scene. Its problems are many and difficult,
because it insists on equality among its members and brings into association some nations traditionally
divided. Repeatedly in recent months, the collapse of these regional alliances has been predicted.
The strains upon them have been at times indeed severe. Despite these strains our regional
alliances have proved durable and strong, and dire predictions of their disintegration have
proved completely false.

With other free nations, we should vigorously prosecute measures that will promote mutual strength,
prosperity and welfare within the free world. Strength is essentially a product of economic
health and social well-being. Consequently, even as we continue our programs of military assistance,
we must emphasize aid to our friends in building more productive economies and in better satisfying
the natural demands of their people for progress. Thereby we shall move a long way toward a
peaceful world.

A sound and safeguarded agreement for open skies, unarmed aerial sentinels, and reduced armament
would provide a valuable contribution toward a durable peace in the years ahead. And we have
been persistent in our effort to reach such an agreement. We are willing to enter any reliable
agreement which would reverse the trend toward ever more devastating nuclear weapons; reciprocally
provide against the possibility of surprise attack; mutually control the outer space missile
and satellite development; and make feasible a lower level of armaments and armed forces and
an easier burden of military expenditures. Our continuing negotiations in this field are a
major part of our quest for a confident peace in this atomic age.

This quest requires as well a constructive attitude among all the nations of the free world
toward expansion of trade and investment, that can give all of us opportunity to work out economic
betterment.

An essential step in this field is the provision of an administrative agency to insure the
orderly and proper operation of existing arrangements trader which multilateral trade is now
carried on. To that end I urge Congressional authorization for United States membership in
the proposed Organization for Trade Cooperation, an action which will speed removal of discrimination
against our export trade.

We welcome the efforts of a number of our European friends to achieve an integrated community
to develop a common market. We likewise welcome their cooperative effort in the field of atomic
energy.

To demonstrate once again our unalterable purpose to make of the atom a peaceful servant of
humanity, I shortly shall ask the Congress to authorize full United States participation in
the International Atomic Energy Agency.

World events have magnified both the responsibilities and the opportunities of the United States
Information Agency. Just as, in recent months, the voice of communism has become more shaken
and confused, the voice of truth must be more clearly heard. To enable our Information Agency
to cope with these new responsibilities and opportunities, I am asking the Congress to increase
appreciably the appropriations for this program and for legislation establishing a career service
for the Agency's overseas foreign service officers.

The recent historic events in Hungary demand that all free nations share to the extent of their
capabilities in the responsibility of granting asylum to victims of Communist persecution.
I request the Congress promptly to enact legislation to regularize the status in the United
States of Hungarian refugees brought here as parolees. I shall shortly recommend to the Congress
by special message the changes in our immigration laws that I deem necessary in the light of
our world responsibilities.

The cost of peace is something we must face boldly, fearlessly. Beyond money, it involves changes
in attitudes, the renunciation of old prejudices, even the sacrifice of some seeming self-interest.

Only five days ago I expressed to you the grave concern of your Government over the threat
of Soviet aggression in the Middle East. I asked for Congressional authorization to help counter
this threat. I say again that this matter is of vital and immediate importance to the Nation's
and the free world's security and peace. By our proposed programs in the Middle East, we hope
to assist in establishing a climate in which constructive and long-term solutions to basic
problems of the area may be sought.

From time to time, there will be presented to the Congress requests for other legislation in
the broad field of international affairs. All requests will reflect the steadfast purpose of
this Administration to pursue peace, based on justice. Although in some cases details will
be new, the underlying purpose and objectives will remain the same.

All proposals made by the Administration in this field are based on the free world's unity.
This unity may not be immediately obvious unless we examine link by link the chain of relationships
that binds us to every area and to every nation. In spirit the free world is one because its
people uphold the right of independent existence for all nations. I have already alluded to
their economic interdependence. But their interdependence extends also into the field of security.

First of all, no reasonable man will question the absolute need for our American neighbors
to be prosperous and secure. Their security and prosperity are inextricably bound to our own.
And we are, of course, already joined with these neighbors by historic pledges.

Again, no reasonable man will deny that the freedom and prosperity and security of Western
Europe are vital to our own prosperity and security. If the institutions, the skills, the manpower
of its peoples were to fall under the domination of an aggressive imperialism, the violent
change in the balance of world power and in the pattern of world commerce could not be fully
compensated for by any American measures, military or economic.

But these people, whose economic strength is largely dependent on free and uninterrupted movement
of oil from the Middle East, cannot prosper--indeed, their economies would be severely impaired--should
that area be controlled by an enemy and the movement of oil be subject to its decisions.

Next, to the Eastward, are Asiatic and Far Eastern peoples, recently returned to independent
control of their own affairs or now emerging into sovereign statehood. Their potential strength
constitutes new assurance for stability and peace in the world--if they can retain their independence.
Should they lose freedom and be dominated by an aggressor, the world-wide effects would imperil
the security of the free world.

In short, the world has so shrunk that all free nations are our neighbors. Without cooperative
neighbors, the United States cannot maintain its own security and welfare, because:

First, America's vital interests are world-wide, embracing both hemispheres and every continent.

Second, we have community of interest with every nation in the free world.

Third, interdependence of interests requires a decent respect for the rights and the peace
of all peoples.

These principles motivate our actions within the United Nations. There, before all the world,
by our loyalty to them, by our practice of them, let us strive to set a standard to which all
who seek justice and who hunger for peace can rally.

May we at home, here at the Seat of Government, in all the cities and towns and farmlands of
America, support these principles in a personal effort of dedication. Thereby each of us can
help establish a secure world order in which opportunity for freedom and justice will be more
widespread, and in which the resources now dissipated on the armaments of war can be released
for the life and growth of all humanity.

When our forefathers prepared the immortal document that proclaimed our independence, they
asserted that every individual is endowed by his Creator with certain inalienable rights. As
we gaze back through history to that date, it is clear that our nation has striven to live
up to this declaration, applying it to nations as well as to individuals.

Today we proudly assert that the government of the United States is still committed to this
concept, both in its activities at home and abroad.

The purpose is Divine; the implementation is human.

Our country and its government have made mistakes--human mistakes. They have been of the head--not
of the heart. And it is still true that the great concept of the dignity of all men, alike
created in the image of the Almighty, has been the compass by which we have tried and are trying
to steer our course.

So long as we continue by its guidance, there will be true progress in human affairs, both
among ourselves and among those with whom we deal.

To achieve a more perfect fidelity to it, I submit, is a worthy ambition as we meet together
in these first days of this, the first session of the 85th Congress.

The Address as reported from the floor appears in the Congressional Record (vol. 103, p. 387).

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower January 9, 1958

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the 85th Congress:

It is again my high privilege to extend personal greetings to the members of the 85th Congress.

All of us realize that, as this new session begins, many Americans are troubled about recent
world developments which they believe may threaten our nation's safety. Honest men differ in
their appraisal of America's material and intellectual strength, and the dangers that confront
us. But all know these dangers are real.

The purpose of this message is to outline the measures that can give the American people a
confidence--just as real--in their own security.

I am not here to justify the past, gloss over the problems of the present, or propose easy
solutions for the future.

I am here to state what I believe to be right and what I believe to be wrong; and to propose
action for correcting what I think wrong! I.

There are two tasks confronting us that so far outweigh all other that I shall devote this
year's message entirely to them. The first is to ensure our safety through strength.

As to our strength, I have repeatedly voiced this conviction: We now have a broadly based and
efficient defensive strength, including a great deterrent power, which is, for the present,
our main guarantee against war; but, unless we act wisely and promptly, we could lose that
capacity to deter attack or defend ourselves.

My profoundest conviction is that the American people will say, as one man: No matter what
the exertions or sacrifices, we shall maintain that necessary strength!

But we could make no more tragic mistake than merely to concentrate on military strength.

For if we did only this, the future would hold nothing for the world but an Age of Terror.

And so our second task is to do the constructive work of building a genuine peace. We must
never become so preoccupied with our desire for military strength that we neglect those areas
of economic development, trade, diplomacy, education, ideas and principles where the foundations
of real peace must be laid. II.

The threat to our safety, and to the hope of a peaceful world, can be simply stated. It is
communist imperialism.

This threat is not something imagined by critics of the Soviets. Soviet spokesmen, from the
beginning, have publicly and frequently declared their aim to expand their power, one way or
another, throughout the world.

The threat has become increasingly serious as this expansionist aim has been reinforced by
an advancing industrial, military and scientific establishment.

But what makes the Soviet threat unique in history is its all--inclusiveness. Every human activity
is pressed into service as a weapon of expansion. Trade, economic development, military power,
arts, science, education, the whole world of ideas--all are harnessed to this same chariot
of expansion.

The Soviets are, in short, waging total cold war.

The only answer to a regime that wages total cold war is to wage total peace.

This means bringing to bear every asset of our personal and national lives upon the task of
building the conditions in which security and peace can grow. III.

Among our assets, let us first briefly glance at our military power.

Military power serves the cause of security by making prohibitive the cost of any aggressive
attack.

It serves the cause of peace by holding up a shield behind which the patient constructive work
of peace can go on.

But it can serve neither cause if we make either of two mistakes. The one would be to overestimate
our strength, and thus neglect crucially important actions in the period just ahead. The other
would be to underestimate our strength. Thereby we might be tempted to become irresolute in
our foreign relations, to dishearten our friends, and to lose our national poise and perspective
in approaching the complex problems ahead.

Any orderly balance-sheet of military strength must be in two parts. The first is the position
as of today. The second is the position in the period ahead.

As of today: our defensive shield comprehends a vast complex of ground, sea, and air units,
superbly equipped and strategically deployed around the world. The most powerful deterrent
to war in the world today lies in the retaliatory power of our Strategic Air Command and the
aircraft of our Navy. They present to any potential attacker who would unleash war upon the
world the prospect of virtual annihilation of his own country.

Even if we assume a surprise attack on our bases, with a marked reduction in our striking power,
our bombers would immediately be on their way in sufficient strength to accomplish this mission
of retaliation. Every informed government knows this. It is no secret.

Since the Korean Armistice, the American people have spent $225 billion in maintaining and
strengthening this overall defensive shield. This is the position as of today.

Now as to the period ahead: Every part of our military establishment must and will be equipped
to do its defensive job with the most modern weapons and methods. But it is particularly important
to our planning that we make a candid estimate of the effect of long-range ballistic missiles
on the present deterrent power I have described.

At this moment, the consensus of opinion is that we are probably somewhat behind the Soviets
in some areas of long-range ballistic missile development. But it is my conviction, based on
close study of all relevant intelligence, that if we make the necessary effort, we will have
the missiles, in the needed quantity and in time, to sustain and strengthen the deterrent power
of our increasingly efficient bombers. One encouraging fact evidencing this ability is the
rate of progress we have achieved since we began to concentrate on these missiles.

The intermediate ballistic missiles, Thor and Jupiter, have already been ordered into production.
The parallel progress in the intercontinental ballistic missile effort will be advanced by
our plans for acceleration. The development of the submarine-based Polaris missile system has
progressed so well that its future procurement schedules are being moved forward markedly.

When it is remembered that our country has concentrated on the development of ballistic missiles
for only about a third as long as the Soviets, these achievements show a rate of progress that
speaks for itself. Only a brief time back, we were spending at the rate of only about one million
dollars a year on long range ballistic missiles. In 1957 we spent more than one billion dollars
on the Arias, Titan, Thor, Jupiter, and Polaris programs alone.

But I repeat, gratifying though this rate of progress is, we must still do more!

Our real problem, then, is not our strength today; it is rather the vital necessity of action
today to ensure our strength tomorrow.

What I have just said applies to our strength as a single country. But we are not alone. I
have returned from the recent NATO meeting with renewed conviction that, because we are a part
of a world-wide community of free and peaceful nations, our own security is immeasurably increased.

By contrast, the Soviet Union has surrounded itself with captive and sullen nations. Like a
crack in the crust of an uneasily sleeping volcano, the Hungarian uprising revealed the depth
and intensity of the patriotic longing for liberty that still burns within these countries.

The world thinks of us as a country which is strong, but which will never start a war. The
world also thinks of us as a land which has never enslaved anyone and which is animated by
humane ideals. This friendship, based on common ideals, is one of our greatest sources of strength.

It cements into a cohesive security arrangement the aggregate of the spiritual, military and
economic strength of all those nations which, with us, are allied by treaties and agreements.

Up to this point, I have talked solely about our military strength to deter a possible future war.

I now want to talk about the strength we need to win a different kind of war--one that has
already been launched against us.

It is the massive economic offensive that has been mounted by the communist imperialists against
free nations.

The communist imperialist regimes have for some time been largely frustrated in their attempts
at expansion based directly on force. As a result, they have begun to concentrate heavily on
economic penetration, particularly of newly-developing countries, as a preliminary to political
domination.

This non-military drive, if underestimated, could defeat the free world regardless of our military
strength. This danger is all the greater precisely because many of us fail or refuse to recognize
it. Thus, some people may be tempted to finance our extra military effort by cutting economic
assistance. But at the very time when the economic threat is assuming menacing proportions,
to fail to strengthen our own effort would be nothing less than reckless folly!

Admittedly, most of us did not anticipate the psychological impact upon the world of the launching
of the first earth satellite. Let us not make the same kind of mistake in another field, by
failing to anticipate the much more serious impact of the Soviet economic offensive.

As with our military potential, our economic assets are more than equal to the task. Our independent
farmers produce an abundance of food and fibre. Our free workers are versatile, intelligent,
and hardworking. Our businessmen are imaginative and resourceful. The productivity, the adaptability
of the American economy is the solid foundation-stone of our security structure.

We have just concluded another prosperous year. Our output was once more the greatest in the
nation's history. In the latter part of the year, some decline in employment and output occurred,
following the exceptionally rapid expansion of recent years. In a free economy, reflecting
as it does the independent judgments of millions of people, growth typically moves forward
unevenly. But the basic forces of growth remain unimpaired. There are solid grounds for confidence
that economic growth will be resumed without an extended interruption. Moreover, the Federal
government, constantly alert to signs of weakening in any part of our economy, always stands
ready, with its full power, to take any appropriate further action to promote renewed business
expansion.

If our history teaches us anything, it is this lesson: so far as the economic potential of
our nation is concerned, the believers in the future of America have always been the realists.
I count myself as one of this company.

Our long-range problem, then, is not the stamina of our enormous engine of production. Our
problem is to make sure that we use these vast economic forces confidently and creatively,
not only in direct military defense efforts, but likewise in our foreign policy, through such
activities as mutual economic aid and foreign trade.

In much the same way, we have tremendous potential resources on other non-military fronts to
help in countering the Soviet threat: education, science, research, and, not least, the ideas
and principles by which we live. And in all these cases the task ahead is to bring these resources
more sharply to bear upon the new tasks of security and peace in a swiftly-changing world. IV.

There are many items in the Administration's program, of a kind frequently included in a State
of the Union Message, with which I am not dealing today. They are important to us and to our
prosperity. But I am reserving them for treatment in separate communications because of my
purpose today of speaking only about matters bearing directly upon our security and peace.

I now place before you an outline of action designed to focus our resources upon the two tasks
of security and peace.

In this special category I list eight items requiring action. They are not merely desirable.
They are imperative.

1. DEFENSE REORGANIZATION

The first need is to assure ourselves that military organization facilitates rather than hinders
the functioning of the military establishment in maintaining the security of the nation.

Since World War II, the purpose of achieving maximum organizational efficiency in a modern
defense establishment has several times occasioned action by the Congress and by the Executive.

The advent of revolutionary new devices, bringing with them the problem of overall continental
defense, creates new difficulties, reminiscent of those attending the advent of the airplane
half a century ago.

Some of the important new weapons which technology has produced do not fit into any existing
service pattern. They cut across all services, involve all services, and transcend all services,
at every stage from development to operation. In some instances they defy classification according
to branch of service.

Unfortunately, the uncertainties resulting from such a situation, and the jurisdictional disputes
attending upon it, tend to bewilder and confuse the public and create the impression that service
differences are damaging the national interest.

Let us proudly remember that the members of the Armed Forces give their basic allegiance solely
to the United States. Of that fact all of us are certain. But pride of service and mistaken
zeal in promoting particular doctrine has more than once occasioned the kind of difficulty
of which I have just spoken.

I am not attempting today to pass judgment on the charge of harmful service rivalries. But
one thing is sure. Whatever they are, America wants them stopped.

Recently I have had under special study the never-ending problem of efficient organization,
complicated as it is by new weapons. Soon my conclusions will be finalized. I shall promptly
take such Executive action as is necessary and, in a separate message, I shall present appropriate
recommendations to the Congress.

Meanwhile, without anticipating the detailed form that a reorganization should take, I can
state its main lines in terms of objectives:

A major purpose of military organization is to achieve real unity in the Defense establishment
in all the principal features of military activities. Of all these, one of the most important
to our nation's security is strategic planning and control. This work must be done under unified
direction.

The defense structure must be one which, as a whole, can assume, with top efficiency and without
friction, the defense of America. The Defense establishment must therefore plan for a better
integration of its defensive resources, particularly with respect to the newer weapons now
building and under development. These obviously require full coordination in their development,
production and use. Good organization can help assure this coordination.

In recognition of the need for single control in some of our most advanced development projects,
the Secretary of Defense has already decided to concentrate into one organization all the anti-missile
and satellite technology undertaken within the Department of Defense.

Another requirement of military organization is a clear subordination of the military services
to duly constituted civilian authority. This control must be real; not merely on the surface.

Next there must be assurance that an excessive number of compartments in organization will
not create costly and confusing compartments in our scientific and industrial effort.

Finally, to end inter-service disputes requires clear organization and decisive central direction,
supported by the unstinted cooperation of every individual in the defense establishment, civilian
and military.

2. ACCELERATED DEFENSE EFFORT

The second major action item is the acceleration of the defense effort in particular areas
affected by the fast pace of scientific and technological advance.

Some of the points at which improved and increased effort are most essential are these:

We must have sure warning in case of attack. The improvement of warning equipment is becoming
increasingly important as we approach the period when long-range missiles will come into use.

We must protect and disperse our striking forces and increase their readiness for instant reaction.
This means more base facilities and standby crews.

We must maintain deterrent retaliatory power. This means, among other things, stepped-up long
range missile programs; accelerated programs for other effective missile systems; and, for
some years, more advanced aircraft.

We must maintain freedom of the seas. This means nuclear submarines and cruisers; improved
anti-submarine weapons; missile ships; and the like.

We must maintain all necessary types of mobile forces to deal with local conflicts, should
there be need. This means further improvements in equipment, mobility, tactics and fire power.

Through increases in pay and incentive, we must maintain in the armed forces the skilled manpower
modern military forces require.

We must be forward-looking in our research and development to anticipate and achieve the unimagined
weapons of the future.

With these and other improvements, we intend to assure that our vigilance, power, and technical
excellence keep abreast of any realistic threat we face.

3. MUTUAL AID

Third: We must continue to strengthen our mutual security efforts. Most people now realize
that our programs of military aid and defense support are an integral part of our own defense
effort. If the foundations of the Free World structure were progressively allowed to crumble
under the pressure of communist imperialism, the entire house of freedom would be in danger
of collapse.

As for the mutual economic assistance program, the benefit to us is threefold. First, the countries
receiving this aid become bulwarks against communist encroachment as their military defenses
and economies are strengthened. Nations that are conscious of a steady improvement in their
industry, education, health and standard of living are not apt to fall prey to the blandishments
of communist imperialists.

Second, these countries are helped to reach the point where mutually profitable trade can expand
between them and us.

Third, the mutual confidence that comes from working together on constructive projects creates
an atmosphere in which real understanding and peace can flourish.

To help bring these multiple benefits, our economic aid effort should be made more effective.

In proposals for future economic aid, I am stressing a greater use of repayable loans, through
the Development Loan Fund, through funds generated by sale of surplus farm products, and through
the Export-Import Bank.

While some increase in Government funds will be required, it remains our objective to encourage
shifting to the use of private capital sources as rapidly as possible.

One great obstacle to the economic aid program in the past has been, not a rational argument
against it on the merits, but a catchword: "give-away program."

The real fact is that no investment we make in our own security and peace can pay us greater
dividends than necessary amounts of economic aid to friendly nations.

This is no "give-away."

Let's stick to facts!

We cannot afford to have one of our most essential security programs shot down with a slogan!

4. MUTUAL TRADE

Fourth: Both in our national interest, and in the interest of world peace, we must have a five-year
extension of the Trade Agreements Act with broadened authority to negotiate.

World trade supports a significant segment of American industry and agriculture. It provides
employment for four and one-half million American workers. It helps supply our ever increasing
demand for raw materials. It provides the opportunity for American free enterprise to develop
on a worldwide scale. It strengthens our friends and increases their desire to be friends.
World trade helps to lay the groundwork for peace by making all free nations of the world stronger
and more self-reliant.

America is today the world's greatest trading nation. If we use this great asset wisely to
meet the expanding demands of the world, we shall not only provide future opportunities for
our own business, agriculture, and labor, but in the process strengthen our security posture
and other prospects for a prosperous, harmonious world.

As President McKinley said, as long ago as 1901: "Isolation is no longer possible or desirable
.... The period of exclusiveness is past."

5. SCIENTIFIC COOPERATION WITH OUR ALLIES

Fifth: It is of the highest importance that the Congress enact the necessary legislation to
enable us to exchange appropriate scientific and technical information with friendly countries
as part of our effort to achieve effective scientific cooperation.

It is wasteful in the extreme for friendly allies to consume talent and money in solving problems
that their friends have already solved--all because of artificial barriers to sharing. We cannot
afford to cut ourselves off from the brilliant talents and minds of scientists in friendly
countries. The task ahead will be hard enough without handcuffs of our own making.

The groundwork for this kind of cooperation has already been laid in discussions among NATO
countries. Promptness in following through with legislation will be the best possible evidence
of American unity of purpose in cooperating with our friends.

6. EDUCATION AND RESEARCH

Sixth: In the area of education and research, I recommend a balanced program to improve our
resources, involving an investment of about a billion dollars over a four year period. This
involves new activities by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare designed principally
to encourage improved teaching quality and student opportunities in the interests of national
security. It also provides a five-fold increase in sums available to the National Science Foundation
for its special activities in stimulating and improving science education.

Scrupulous attention has been paid to maintaining local control of educational policy, spurring
the maximum amount of local effort, and to avoiding undue stress on the physical sciences at
the expense of other branches of learning.

In the field of research, I am asking for substantial increases in basic research funds, including
a doubling of the funds available to the National Science Foundation for this purpose.

But Federal action can do only a part of the job. In both education and research, redoubled
exertions will be necessary on the part of all Americans if we are to rise to the demands of
our times. This means hard work on the part of state and local governments, private industry,
schools and colleges, private organizations and foundations, teachers, parents, and--perhaps
most important of all--the student himself, with his bag of books and his homework.

With this kind of all-inclusive campaign, I have no doubt that we can create the intellectual
capital we need for the years ahead, invest it in the right places--and do all this, not as
regimented pawns, but as free men and women!

7. SPENDING AND SAVING

Seventh: To provide for this extra effort for security, we must apply stern tests of priority
to other expenditures, both military and civilian. This extra effort involves, most immediately,
the need for a supplemental defense appropriation of $1.3 billion for fiscal year 1958.

In the 1959 budget, increased expenditures for missiles, nuclear ships, atomic energy, research
and development, science and education, a special contingency fund to deal with possible new
technological discoveries, and increases in pay and incentives to obtain and retain competent
manpower add up to a total increase over the comparable figures in the 1957 budget of about
$4 billion.

I believe that, in spite of these necessary increases, we should strive to finance the 1959
security effort out of expected revenues. While we now believe that expected revenues and expenditures
will roughly balance, our real purpose will be to achieve adequate security, but always with
the utmost regard for efficiency and careful management.

This purpose will require the cooperation of Congress in making careful analysis of estimates
presented, reducing expenditure on less essential military programs and installations, postponing
some new civilian programs, transferring some to the states, and curtailing or eliminating others.

Such related matters as the national debt ceiling and tax revenues will be dealt with in later
messages.

8. WORKS OF PEACE

My last call for action is not primarily addressed to the Congress and people of the United
States. Rather, it is a message from the people of the United States to all other peoples,
especially those of the Soviet Union.

This is the spirit of what we would like to say:

"In the last analysis, there is only one solution to the grim problems that lie ahead. The
world must stop the present plunge toward more and more destructive weapons of war, and turn
the corner that will start our steps firmly on the path toward lasting peace.

"Our greatest hope for success lies in a universal fact: the people of the world, as people,
have always wanted peace and want peace now.

"The problem, then, is to find a way of translating this universal desire into action.

"This will require more than words of peace. It requires works of peace."

Now, may I try to give you some concrete examples of the kind of works of peace that might
make a beginning in the new direction.

For a start our people should learn to know each other better. Recent negotiations in Washington
have provided a basis in principle for greater freedom of communication and exchange of people.
I urge the Soviet government to cooperate in turning principle into practice by prompt and
tangible actions that will break down the unnatural barriers that have blocked the flow of
thought and understanding between our people.

Another kind of work of peace is cooperation on projects of human welfare. For example, we
now have it within our power to eradicate from the face of the earth that age-old scourge of
mankind: malaria. We are embarking with other nations in an all-out five-year campaign to blot
out this curse forever. We invite the Soviets to join with us in this great work of humanity.

Indeed, we would be willing to pool our efforts with the Soviets in other campaigns against
the diseases that are the common enemy of all mortals--such as cancer and heart disease.

If people can get together on such projects, is it not possible that we could then go on to
a full-scale cooperative program of Science for Peace?

We have as a guide and inspiration the success of our Atoms-for-Peace proposal, which in only
a few years, under United Nations auspices, became a reality in the International Atomic Energy
Agency.

A program of Science for Peace might provide a means of funneling into one place the results
of research from scientists everywhere and from there making it available to all parts of the
world.

There is almost no limit to the human betterment that could result from such cooperation. Hunger
and disease could increasingly be driven from the earth. The age-old dream of a good life for
all could, at long last, be translated into reality.

But of all the works of peace, none is more needed now than a real first step toward disarmament.

Last August the United Nations General Assembly, by an overwhelming vote, approved a disarmament
plan that we and our allies sincerely believed to be fair and practical. The Soviets have rejected
both the plan, and the negotiating procedure set up by the United Nations. As a result, negotiation
on this supremely important issue is now at a stand-still.

But the world cannot afford to stand still on disarmament! We must never give up the search
for a basis of agreement.

Our allies from time to time develop differing ideas on how to proceed. We must concert these
convictions among ourselves. Thereafter, any reasonable proposal that holds promise for disarmament
and reduction of tension must be heard, discussed, and, if possible, negotiated.

But a disarmament proposal, to hold real promise, must at the minimum have one feature: reliable
means to ensure compliance by all. It takes actions and demonstrated integrity on both sides
to create and sustain confidence. And confidence in a genuine disarmament agreement is vital,
not only to the signers of the agreement, but also to the millions of people all over the world
who are weary of tensions and armaments.

I say once more, to all peoples, that we will always go the extra mile with anyone on earth
if it will bring us nearer a genuine peace.

CONCLUSION

These, then, are the ways in which we must funnel our energies more efficiently into the task
of advancing security and peace.

These actions demand and expect two things of the American people: sacrifice, and a high degree
of understanding. For sacrifice to be effective it must be intelligent. Sacrifice must be made
for the right purpose and in the right place--even if that place happens to come close to home!

After all, it is no good demanding sacrifice in general terms one day, and the next day, for
local reasons, opposing the elimination of some unneeded Federal facility.

It is pointless to condemn Federal spending in general, and the next moment condemn just as
strongly an effort to reduce the particular Federal grant that touches one's own interest.

And it makes no sense whatever to spend additional billions on military strength to deter a
potential danger, and then, by cutting aid and trade programs, let the world succumb to a present
danger in economic guise.

My friends of the Congress: The world is waiting to see how wisely and decisively a free representative
government will now act.

I believe that this Congress possesses and will display the wisdom promptly to do its part
in translating into law the actions demanded by our nation's interests. But, to make law effective,
our kind of government needs the full voluntary support of millions of Americans for these actions.

I am fully confident that the response of the Congress and of the American people will make
this time of test a time of honor. 104, p. 171).

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower January 9, 1959

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the 86th Congress, my fellow citizens:

This is the moment when Congress and the Executive annually begin their cooperative work to
build a better America.

One basic purpose unites us: To promote strength and security, side by side with liberty and
opportunity.

As we meet today, in the 170th year of the Republic, our Nation must continue to provide--as
all other free governments have had to do throughout time--a satisfactory answer to a question
as old as history. It is: Can Government based upon liberty and the God-given rights of man,
permanently endure when ceaselessly challenged by a dictatorship, hostile to our mode of life,
and controlling an economic and military power of great and growing strength?

For us the answer has always been found, and is still found in the devotion, the vision, the
courage and the fortitude of our people.

Moreover, this challenge we face, not as a single powerful nation, but as one that has in recent
decades reached a position of recognized leadership in the Free World.

We have arrived at this position of leadership in an era of remarkable productivity and growth.
It is also a time when man's power of mass destruction has reached fearful proportions.

Possession of such capabilities helps create world suspicion and tension. We, on our part,
know that we seek only a just peace for all, with aggressive designs against no one. Yet we
realize that there is uneasiness in the world because of a belief on the part of peoples that
through arrogance, miscalculation or fear of attack, catastrophic war could be launched. Keeping
the peace in today's world more than ever calls for the utmost in the nation's resolution,
wisdom, steadiness and unremitting effort.

We cannot build peace through desire alone. Moreover, we have learned the bitter lesson that
international agreements, historically considered by us as sacred, are regarded in Communist
doctrine and in practice to be mere scraps of paper. The most recent proof of their disdain
of international obligations, solemnly undertaken, is their announced intention to abandon
their responsibilities respecting Berlin.

As a consequence, we can have no confidence in any treaty to which Communists are a party except
where such a treaty provides within itself for self-enforcing mechanisms. Indeed, the demonstrated
disregard of the Communists of their own pledges is one of the greatest obstacles to success
in substituting the Rule of Law for rule by force.

Yet step by step we must strengthen the institutions of peace--a peace that rests upon justice--a
peace that depends upon a deep knowledge and dear understanding by all peoples of the cause
and consequences of possible failure in this great purpose.

To achieve this peace we seek to prevent war at any place and in any dimension. If, despite
our best efforts, a local dispute should flare into armed hostilities, the next problem would
be to keep the conflict from spreading, and so compromising freedom. In support of these objectives
we maintain forces of great power and flexibility.

Our formidable air striking forces are a powerful deterrent to general war. Large and growing
portions of these units can depart from their bases in a matter of minutes.

Similar forces are included in our naval fleets.

Ground and other tactical formations can move with swiftness and precision, when requested
by friendly and responsible governments, to help curb threatened aggression. The stabilizing
influence of this capacity has been dramatically demonstrated more than once over the past year.

Our military and related scientific progress has been highly gratifying.

Great strides have been made in the development of ballistic missiles. Intermediate range missiles
are now being deployed in operational units. The Arias intercontinental ballistic missile program
has been marked by rapid development as evidenced by recent successful tests. Missile training
units have been established and launching sites are far along in construction.

New aircraft that fly at twice the speed of sound are entering our squadrons.

We have successfully placed five satellites in orbit, which have gathered information of scientific
importance never before available. Our latest satellite illustrates our steady advance in rocketry
and foreshadows new developments in world-wide communications.

Warning systems constantly improve.

Our atomic submarines have shattered endurance records and made historic voyages under the
North Polar Sea.

A major segment of our national scientific and engineering community is working intensively
to achieve new and greater developments. Advance in military technology requires adequate financing
but, of course, even more, it requires talent and time.

All this is given only as a matter of history; as a record of our progress in space and ballistic
missile fields in no more than four years of intensive effort. At the same time we clearly
recognize that some of the recent Soviet accomplishments in this particular technology are
indeed brilliant.

Under the law enacted last year the Department of Defense is being reorganized to give the
Secretary of Defense full authority over the military establishment. Greater efficiency, more
cohesive effort and speedier reaction to emergencies are among the many advantages we are already
noting from these changes.

These few highlights point up our steady military gains. We are rightfully gratified by the
achievements they represent. But we must remember that these imposing armaments are purchased
at great cost.

National Security programs account for nearly sixty percent of the entire Federal budget for
this coming fiscal year.

Modern weapons are exceedingly expensive.

The overall cost of introducing ATLAS into our armed forces will average $35 million per missile
on the firing line.

This year we are investing an aggregate of close to $7 billion in missile programs alone.

Other billions go for research, development, test and evaluation of new weapons systems.

Our latest atomic submarines will cost $50 millions each, while some special types will cost
three times as much.

We are now ordering fighter aircraft which are priced at fifty times as much as the fighters
of World War II.

We are buying certain bombers that cost their weight in gold.

These sums are tremendous, even when compared with the marvelous resiliency and capacity of
our economy.

Such expenditures demand both balance and perspective in our planning for defense. At every
turn, we must weigh, judge and select. Needless duplication of weapons and forces must be avoided.

We must guard against feverish building of vast armaments to meet glibly predicted moments
of so-called "maximum peril." The threat we face is not sporadic or dated: It is continuous.
Hence we must not be swayed in our calculations either by groundless fear or by complacency.
We must avoid extremes, for vacillation between extremes is inefficient, costly, and destructive
of morale. In these days of unceasing technological advance, we must plan our defense expenditures
systematically and with care, fully recognizing that obsolescence compels the never-ending
replacement of older weapons with new ones.

The defense budget for the coming year has been planned on the basis of these principles and
considerations. Over these many months I have personally participated in its development.

The aim is a sensible posture of defense. The secondary aim is increased efficiency and avoidance
of waste. Both are achieved by this budgetary plan.

Working by these guide lines I believe with all my heart that America can be as sure of the
strength and efficiency of her armed forces as she is of their loyalty. I am equally sure that
the nation will thus avoid useless expenditures which, in the name of security, might tend
to undermine the economy and, therefore, the nation's safety.

Our own vast strength is only a part of that required for dependable security. Because of this
we have joined with nearly 50 other nations in collective security arrangements. In these common
undertakings each nation is expected to contribute what it can in sharing the heavy load. Each
supplies part of a strategic deployment to protect the forward boundaries of freedom.

Constantly we seek new ways to make more effective our contribution to this system of collective
security. Recently I have asked a Committee of eminent Americans of both parties to re-appraise
our military assistance programs and the relative emphasis which should be placed on military
and economic aid.

I am hopeful that preliminary recommendations of this Committee will be available in time to
assist in shaping the Mutual Security program for the coming fiscal year.

Any survey of the free world's defense structure cannot fail to impart a feeling of regret
that so much of our effort and resources must be devoted to armaments. At Geneva and elsewhere
we continue to seek technical and other agreements that may help to open up, with some promise,
the issues of international disarmament. America will never give up the hope that eventually
all nations can, with mutual confidence, drastically reduce these non-productive expenditures. II.

The material foundation of our national safety is a strong and expanding economy. This we have--and
this we must maintain. Only with such an economy can we be secure and simultaneously provide
for the well-being of our people.

A year ago the nation was experiencing a decline in employment and output. Today that recession
is fading into history, and this without gigantic, hastily-improvised public works projects
or untimely tax reductions. A healthy and vigorous recovery has been under way since last May.
New homes are being built at the highest rate in several years. Retail sales are at peak levels.
Personal income is at an all-time high.

The marked forward thrust of our economy reaffirms our confidence in competitive enterprise.
But--clearly--wisdom and prudence in both the public and private sectors of the economy are
always necessary.

Our outlook is this: 1960 commitments for our armed forces, the Atomic Energy Commission and
Military Assistance exceed 47 billion dollars. In the foreseeable future they are not likely
to be significantly lower. With an annual population increase of three million, other governmental
costs are bound to mount.

After we have provided wisely for our military strength, we must judge how to allocate our
remaining government resources most effectively to promote our well-being and economic growth.

Federal programs that will benefit all citizens are moving forward.

Next year we will be spending increased amounts on health programs; on Federal assistance to
science and education; on the development of the nation's water resources; on the renewal of
urban areas; and on our vast system of Federal-aid highways.

Each of these additional outlays is being made necessary by the surging growth of America.

Let me illustrate. Responsive to this growth, Federal grants and long term loans to assist
14 major types of capital improvements in our cities will total over 2 billion dollars in 1960--double
the expenditure of two years ago. The major responsibility for development in these fields
rests in the localities, even though the Federal Government will continue to do its proper
part in meeting the genuine needs of a burgeoning population.

But the progress of our economy can more than match the growth of our needs. We need only to
act wisely and confidently.

Here, I hope you will permit me to digress long enough to express something that is much on
my mind.

The basic question facing us today is more than mere survival--the military defense of national
life and territory. It is the preservation of a way of life.

We must meet the world challenge and at the same time permit no stagnation in America.

Unless we progress, we regress.

We can successfully sustain security and remain true to our heritage of freedom if we clearly
visualize the tasks ahead and set out to perform them with resolution and fervor. We must first
define these tasks and then understand what we must do to perform them.

If progress is to be steady we must have long term guides extending far ahead, certainly five,
possibly even ten years. They must reflect the knowledge that before the end of five years
we will have a population of over 190 million. They must be goals that stand high, and so inspire
every citizen to climb always toward mounting levels of moral, intellectual and material strength.
Every advance toward them must stir pride in individual and national achievements.

To define these goals, I intend to mobilize help from every available source.

We need more than politically ordained national objectives to challenge the best efforts of
free men and women. A group of selfless and devoted individuals, outside of government, could
effectively participate in making the necessary appraisal of the potentials of our future.
The result would be establishment of national goals that would not only spur us on to our finest
efforts, but would meet the stern test of practicality.

The Committee I plan will comprise educators and representatives of labor, management, finance,
the professions and every other kind of useful activity.

Such a study would update and supplement, in the light of continuous changes in our society
and its economy, the monumental work of the Committee on Recent Social Trends which was appointed
in 1931 by President Hoover. Its report has stood the test of time and has had a beneficial
influence on national development. The new Committee would be concerned, among other things,
with the acceleration of our economy's growth and the living standards of our people, their
health and education, their better assurance of life and liberty and their greater opportunities.
It would also be concerned with methods to meet such goals and what levels of government--Local,
State, or Federal--might or should be particularly concerned.

As one example, consider our schools, operated under the authority of local communities and
states. In their capacity and in their quality they conform to no recognizable standards. In
some places facilities are ample, in others meager. Pay of teachers ranges between wide limits,
from the adequate to the shameful. As would be expected, quality of teaching varies just as
widely. But to our teachers we commit the most valuable possession of the nation and of the
family--our children.

We must have teachers of competence. To obtain and hold them we need standards. We need a National
Goal. Once established I am certain that public opinion would compel steady progress toward
its accomplishment.

Such studies would be helpful, I believe, to government at all levels and to all individuals.
The goals so established could help us see our current needs in perspective. They will spur
progress.

We do not forget, of course, that our nation's progress and fiscal integrity are interdependent
and inseparable. We can afford everything we clearly need, but we cannot afford one cent of
waste. We must examine every item of governmental expense critically. To do otherwise would
betray our nation's future. Thrift is one of the characteristics that has made this nation
great. Why should we ignore it now?

We must avoid any contribution to inflationary processes, which could disrupt sound growth
in our economy.

Prices have displayed a welcome stability in recent months and, if we are wise and resolute,
we will not tolerate inflation in the years to come. But history makes clear the risks inherent
in any failure to deal firmly with the .basic causes of inflation. Two of the most important
of these causes are the wage-price spiral and continued deficit financing.

Inflation would reduce job opportunities, price us out of world markets, shrink the value of
savings and penalize the thrift so essential to finance a growing economy.

Inflation is not a Robin Hood, taking from the rich to give to the poor. Rather, it deals most
cruelly with those who can least protect themselves. It strikes hardest those millions of our
citizens whose incomes do not quickly rise with the cost of living. When prices soar, the pensioner
and the widow see their security undermined, the man of thrift sees his savings melt away;
the white collar worker, the minister, and the teacher see their standards of living dragged down.

Inflation can be prevented. But this demands statesmanship on the part of business and labor
leaders and of government at all levels.

We must encourage the self-discipline, the restraint necessary to curb the wage-price spiral
and we must meet current costs from current revenue.

To minimize the danger of future soaring prices and to keep our economy sound and expanding,
I shall present to the Congress certain proposals.

First, I shall submit a balanced budget for the next year, a year expected to be the most prosperous
in our history. It is a realistic budget with wholly attainable objectives.

If we cannot live within our means during such a time of rising prosperity, the hope for fiscal
integrity will fade. If we persist in living beyond our means, we make it difficult for every
family in our land to balance its own household budget. But to live within our means would
be a tangible demonstration of the self-discipline needed to assure a stable dollar.

The Constitution entrusts the Executive with many functions, but the Congress--and the Congress
alone--has the power of the purse. Ultimately upon Congress rests responsibility for determining
the scope and amount of Federal spending.

By working together, the Congress and the Executive can keep a balance between income and outgo.
If this is done there is real hope that we can look forward to a time in the foreseeable future
when needed tax reforms can be accomplished.

In this hope, I am requesting the Secretary of the Treasury to prepare appropriate proposals
for revising, at the proper time, our tax structure, to remove inequities and to enhance incentives
for all Americans to work, to save, and to invest. Such recommendations will be made as soon
as our fiscal condition permits. These prospects will be brightened if 1960 expenditures do
not exceed the levels recommended.

Second, I shall recommend to the Congress that the Chief Executive be given the responsibility
either to approve or to veto specific items in appropriations and authorization bills. This
would save tax dollars.

Third, to reduce Federal operations in an area where private enterprise can do the job, I shall
recommend legislation for greater flexibility in extending Federal credit, and in improving
the procedures under which private credits are insured or guaranteed. Present practices have
needlessly added large sums to Federal expenditures.

Fourth, action is required to make more effective use of the large Federal expenditures for
agriculture and to achieve greater fiscal control in this area.

Outlays of the Department of Agriculture for the current fiscal year for the support of farm
prices on a very few farm products will exceed five billion dollars. That is a sum equal to
approximately two-fifths of the net income of all farm operators in the entire United States.

By the end of this fiscal year it is estimated that there will be in Government hands surplus
farm products worth about nine billion dollars. And by July 1, 1959, Government expenditures
for storage, interest, and handling of its agricultural inventory will reach a rate of one
billion dollars a year.

This level of expenditure for farm products could be made willingly for a temporary period
if it were leading to a sound solution of the problem. But unfortunately this is not true.
We need new legislation.

In the past I have sent messages to the Congress requesting greater freedom for our farmers
to manage their own farms and greater freedom for markets to reflect the wishes of producers
and consumers. Legislative changes that followed were appropriate in direction but did not
go far enough.

The situation calls for prompt and forthright action. Recommendation for action will be contained
in a message to be transmitted to the Congress shortly.

These fiscal and related actions will help create an environment of price stability for economic
growth. However, certain additional measures are needed.

I shall ask Congress to amend the Employment Act of 1946 to make it clear that Government intends
to use all appropriate means to protect the buying power of the dollar.

I am establishing a continuing Cabinet group on Price Stability for Economic Growth to study
governmental and private policies affecting costs, prices, and economic growth. It will strive
also to build a better public understanding of the conditions necessary for maintaining growth
and price stability.

Studies are being undertaken to improve our information on prices, wages, and productivity.

I believe all citizens in all walks of life will support this program of action to accelerate
economic growth and promote price stability. III.

I take up next certain aspects of our international situation and our programs to strengthen it.

America's security can be assured only within a world community strong, stable, independent
nations, in which the concepts of freedom, justice and human dignity can flourish.

There can be no such thing as Fortress America. If ever we were reduced to the isolation implied
by that term, we would occupy a prison, not a fortress. The question whether we can afford
to help other nations that want to defend their freedom but cannot fully do so from their own
means, has only one answer: we can and we must, we have been doing so since 1947.

Our foreign policy has long been dedicated to building a permanent and just peace.

During the past six years our free world security arrangements have been bolstered and the
bonds of freedom have been more closely knit. Our friends in Western Europe are experiencing
new internal vitality, and are increasingly more able to resist external threats.

Over the years the world has come to understand clearly that it is our firm policy not to countenance
aggression. In Lebanon, Taiwan, and Berlin--our stand has been dear, right, and expressive
of the determined will of a united people.

Acting with other free nations we have undertaken the solemn obligation to defend the people
of free Berlin against any effort to destroy their freedom. In the meantime we shall constantly
seek meaningful agreements to settle this and other problems, knowing full well that not only
the integrity of a single city, but the hope of all free peoples is at stake.

We need, likewise, to continue helping to build the economic base so essential to the Free
World's stability and strength.

The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have both fully proven their worth as instruments
of international financial cooperation. Their Executive Directors have recommended an increase
in each member country's subscription. I am requesting the Congress for immediate approval
of our share of these increases.

We are now negotiating with representatives of the twenty Latin American Republics for the
creation of an inter-American financial institution. Its purpose would be to join all the American
Republics in a common institution which would promote and finance development in Latin America,
and make more effective the use of capital from the World Bank, the Export-Import Bank, and
private sources.

Private enterprise continues to make major contributions to economic development in all parts
of the world. But we have not yet marshalled the full potential of American business for this
task, particularly in countries which have recently attained their independence. I shall present
to this Congress a program designed to encourage greater participation by private enterprise
in economic development abroad.

Further, all of us know that to advance the cause of freedom we must do much more than help
build sound economies. The spiritual, intellectual, and physical strength of people throughout
the world will in the last analysis determine their willingness and their ability to resist
Communism.

To give a single illustration of our many efforts in these fields: We have been a participant
in the effort that has been made over the past few years against one of the great scourges
of mankind--disease. Through the Mutual Security program public health officials are being
trained by American universities to serve in less developed countries. We are engaged in intensive
malaria eradication projects in many parts of the world. America's major successes in our own
country prove the feasibility of success everywhere.

By these and other means we shall continue and expand our campaign against the afflictions
that now bring needless suffering and death to so many of the world's people. We wish to be
part of a great shared effort toward the triumph of health. IV.

America is best described by one word, freedom.

If we hope to strengthen freedom in the world we must be ever mindful of how our own conduct
reacts elsewhere. No nation has ever been so floodlighted by world opinion as the United States
is today. Everything we do is carefully scrutinized by other peoples throughout the world.
The bad is seen along with the good.

Because we are human we err. But as free men we are also responsible for correcting the errors
and imperfections of our ways.

Last January I made comprehensive recommendations to the Congress for legislation in the labor-management
field. To my disappointment, Congress failed to act. The McClellan Committee disclosures of
corruption, racketeering, and abuse of trust and power in labor-management affairs have aroused
America and amazed other peoples. They emphasize the need for improved local law enforcement
and the enactment of effective Federal legislation to protect the public interest and to insure
the rights and economic freedoms of millions of American workers. Halfhearted measures will
not do. I shall recommend prompt enactment of legislation designed:

To safeguard workers' funds in union treasuries against misuse of any kind whatsoever.

To protect the rights and freedoms of individual union members, including the basic right to
free and secret elections of officers.

To advance true and responsible collective bargaining.

To protect the public and innocent third parties from unfair and coercive practices such as
boycotting and blackmail picketing.

The workers and the public must have these vital protections.

In other areas of human rights--freedom from discrimination in voting, in public education,
in access to jobs, and in other respects--the world is likewise watching our conduct.

The image of America abroad is not improved when school children, through closing of some of
our schools and through no fault of their own, are deprived of their opportunity for an education.

The government of a free people has no purpose more noble than to work for the maximum realization
of equality of opportunity under law. This is not the sole responsibility of any one branch
of our government. The judicial arm, which has the ultimate authority for interpreting the
Constitution, has held that certain state laws and practices discriminate upon racial grounds
and are unconstitutional. Whenever the supremacy of the Constitution of the United States is
challenged I shall continue to take every action necessary to uphold it.

One of the fundamental concepts of our constitutional system is that it guarantees to every
individual, regardless of race, religion, or national origin, the equal protection of the laws.
Those of us who are privileged to hold public office have a solemn obligation to make meaningful
this inspiring objective. We can fulfill that obligation by our leadership in teaching, persuading,
demonstrating, and in enforcing the law.

We are making noticeable progress in the field of civil rights--we are moving forward toward
achievement of equality of opportunity for all people everywhere in the United States. In the
interest of the nation and of each of its citizens, that progress must continue.

Legislative proposals of the Administration in this field will be submitted to the Congress
early in the session. All of us should help to make clear that the government is united in
the common purpose of giving support to the law and the decisions of the Courts.

By moving steadily toward the goal of greater freedom under law, for our own people, we shall
be the better prepared to work for the cause of freedom under law throughout the world.

All peoples are solely tired of the fear, destruction, and the waste of war. As never before,
the world knows the human and material costs of war and seeks to replace force with a genuine
role of law among nations.

It is my purpose to intensify efforts during the coming two years in seeking ways to supplement
the procedures of the United Nations and other bodies with similar objectives, to the end that
the rule of law may replace the rule of force in the affairs of nations. Measures toward this
end will be proposed later, including a re-examination of our own relation to the International
Court of Justice.

Finally--let us remind ourselves that Marxist scripture is not new; it is not the gospel of
the future. Its basic objective is dictatorship, old as history. What is new is the shining
prospect that man can build a world where all can live in dignity.

We seek victory--not over any nation or people--but over the ancient enemies of us all; victory
over ignorance, poverty, disease, and human degradation wherever they may be found.

We march in the noblest of causes--human freedom.

If we make ourselves worthy of America's ideals, if we do not forget that our nation was founded
on the premise that all men are creatures of God's making, the world will come to know that
it is free men who carry forward the true promise of human progress and dignity.

The Address as reported from the floor appears in the Congressional Record of January 9, 1959
(vol. 105, p. 163).

***

State of the Union Address Dwight D. Eisenhower January 7, 1960

Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the 86th Congress:

Seven years ago I entered my present office with one long-held resolve overriding all others.
I was then, and remain now, determined that the United States shall become an ever more potent
resource for the cause of peace--realizing that peace cannot be for ourselves alone, but for
peoples everywhere. This determination is shared by the entire Congress--indeed, by all Americans.

My purpose today is to discuss some features of America's position, both at home and in her
relations to others.

First, I point out that for us, annual self-examination is made a definite necessity by the
fact that we now live in a divided world of uneasy equilibrium, with our side committed to
its own protection and against aggression by the other.

With both sides of this divided world in possession of unbelievably destructive weapons, mankind
approaches a state where mutual annihilation becomes a possibility. No other fact of today's
world equals this in importance--it colors everything we say, plan, and do.

There is demanded of us, vigilance, determination, and the dedication of whatever portion of
our resources that will provide adequate security, especially a real deterrent to aggression.
These things we are doing.

All these facts emphasize the importance of striving incessantly for a just peace.

Only through the strengthening of the spiritual, intellectual, economic and defensive resources
of the Free World can we, in confidence, make progress toward this goal.

Second, we note that recent Soviet deportment and pronouncements suggest the possible opening
of a somewhat less strained period in the relationships between the Soviet Union and the Free
World. If these Pronouncements be genuine, there is brighter hope of diminishing the intensity
of past rivalry and eventually of substituting persuasion for coercion. Whether this is to
become an era of lasting promise remains to be tested by actions.

Third, we now stand in the vestibule of a vast new technological age-one that, despite its
capacity for human destruction, has an equal capacity to make poverty and human misery obsolete.
If our efforts are wisely directed--and if our unremitting efforts for dependable peace begin
to attain some success--we can surely become participants in creating an age characterized
by justice and rising levels of human well-being.

Over the past year the Soviet Union has expressed an interest in measures to reduce the common
peril of war.

While neither we nor any other Free World nation can permit ourselves to be misled by pleasant
promises until they are tested by performance, yet we approach this apparently new opportunity
with the utmost seriousness. We must strive to break the calamitous cycle of frustrations and
crises which, if unchecked, could spiral into nuclear disaster; the ultimate insanity.

Though the need for dependable agreements to assure against resort to force in settling disputes
is apparent to both sides yet as in other issues dividing men and nations, we cannot expect
sudden and revolutionary results. But we must find some place to begin.

One obvious road on which to make a useful start is in the widening of communication between
our two peoples. In this field there are, both sides willing, countless opportunities--most
of them well known to us all--for developing mutual understanding, the true foundation of peace.

Another avenue may be through the reopening, on January twelfth, of negotiations looking to
a controlled ban on the testing of nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, the closing statement from
the Soviet scientists who met with our scientists at Geneva in an unsuccessful effort to develop
an agreed basis for a test ban, gives the clear impression that their conclusions have been
politically guided. Those of the British and American scientific representatives are their
own freely-formed, individual and collective opinion. I am hopeful that as new negotiations
begin, truth--not political opportunism--will be the guiding light of the deliberations.

Still another avenue may be found in the field of disarmament, in which the Soviets have professed
a readiness to negotiate seriously. They have not, however, made clear the plans they may have,
if any, for mutual inspection and verification--the essential condition for any extensive measure
of disarmament.

There is one instance where our initiative for peace has recently been successful. A multi-lateral
treaty signed last month provides for the exclusively peaceful use of Antarctica, assured by
a system of inspection. It provides for free and cooperative scientific research in that continent,
and prohibits nuclear explosions there pending general international agreement on the subject.
The Treaty is a significant contribution toward peace, international cooperation, and the advancement
of science. I shall transmit its text to the Senate for consideration and approval in the near
future.

The United States is always ready to participate with the Soviet Union in serious discussion
of these or any other subjects that may lead to peace with justice.

Certainly it is not necessary to repeat that the United States has no intention of interfering
in the internal affairs of any nation; likewise we reject any attempt to impose its system
on us or on other peoples by force or subversion.

This concern for the freedom of other peoples is the intellectual and spiritual cement which
has allied us with more than forty other nations in a common defense effort. Not for a moment
do we forget that our own fate is firmly fastened to that of these countries; we will not act
in any way which would jeopardize our solemn commitments to them.

We and our friends are, of course, concerned with self-defense. Growing out of this concern
is the realization that all people of the Free World have a great stake in the progress, in
freedom, of the uncommitted and newly emerging nations. These peoples, desperately hoping to
lift themselves to decent levels of living must not, by our neglect, be forced to seek help
from, and finally become virtual satellites of, those who proclaim their hostility to freedom.

Their natural desire for a better life must not be frustrated by withholding from them necessary
technical and investment assistance. This is a problem to be solved not by America alone, but
also by every nation cherishing the same ideals and in position to provide help.

In recent years America's partners and friends in Western Europe and Japan have made great
economic progress. Their newly found economic strength is eloquent testimony to the striking
success of the policies of economic cooperation which we and they have pursued.

The international economy of 1960 is markedly different from that of the early postwar years.
No longer is the United States the only major industrial country capable of providing substantial
amounts of the resources so urgently needed in the newly-developing countries.

To remain secure and prosperous themselves, wealthy nations must extend the kind of cooperation
to the less fortunate members that will inspire hope, confidence and progress. A rich nation
can for a time, without noticeable damage to itself, pursue a course of self-indulgence, making
its single goal the material ease and comfort of its own citizens-thus repudiating its own
spiritual and material stake in a peaceful and prosperous society of nations. But the enmities
it will incur, the isolation into which it will descend, and the internal moral and physical
softness that will be engendered, will, in the long term, bring it to disaster.

America did not become great through softness and self-indulgence. Her miraculous progress
and achievements flow from other qualities far more worthy and substantial--

--adherence to principles and methods consonant with our religious philosophy

--a satisfaction in hard work

--the readiness to sacrifice for worthwhile causes

--the courage to meet every challenge to her progress

--the intellectual honesty and capacity to recognize the true path of her own best interests.

To us and to every nation of the Free World, rich or poor, these qualities are necessary today
as never before if we are to march together to greater security, prosperity and peace.

I believe the industrial countries are ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts
of the developing countries to achieve progress.

The immediate need for this kind of cooperation is underscored by the strain in our international
balance of payments. Our surplus from foreign business transactions has in recent years fallen
substantially short of the expenditures we make abroad to maintain our military establishments
overseas, to finance private investment, and to provide assistance to the less developed nations.
In 1959 our deficit in balance of payments approached $4 billion.

Continuing deficits of anything like this magnitude would, over time, impair our own economic
growth and check the forward progress of the Free World.

We must meet this situation by promoting a rising volume of exports and world trade. Further,
we must induce all industrialized nations of the Free World to work together in a new cooperative
endeavor to help lift the scourge of poverty from less fortunate nations. This will provide
for better sharing of this burden and for still further profitable trade.

New nations, and others struggling with the problems of development, will progress only if
they demonstrate faith in their own destiny and possess the will and use their own resources
to fulfill it. Moreover, progress in a national transformation can be only gradually earned;
there is no easy and quick way to follow from the oxcart to the jet plane. But, just as we
drew on Europe for assistance in our earlier years, so now do those new and emerging nations
that have this faith and determination deserve help.

Over the last fifteen years, twenty nations have gained political independence. Others are
doing so each year. Most of them are woefully lacking in technical capacity and in investment
capital; without Free World support in these matters they cannot effectively progress in freedom.

Respecting their need, one of the major focal points of our concern is the South Asian region.
Here, in two nations alone, are almost five hundred million people, all working, and working
hard, to raise their standards, and in doing so, to make of themselves a strong bulwark against
the spread of an ideology that would destroy liberty.

I cannot express to you the depth of my conviction that, in our own and Free World interests,
we must cooperate with others to help these people achieve their legitimate ambitions, as expressed
in their different multi-year plans. Through the World Bank and other instrumentalities, as
well as through individual action by every nation in position to help, we must squarely face
this titanic challenge.

All of us must realize, of course, that development in freedom by the newly emerging nations,
is no mere matter of obtaining outside financial assistance. An indispensable element in this
process is a strong and continuing determination on the part of these nations to exercise the
national discipline necessary for any sustained development period. These qualities of determination
are particularly essential because of the fact that the process of improvement will necessarily
be gradual and laborious rather than revolutionary. Moreover, everyone should be aware that
the development process is no short term phenomenon. Many years are required for even the most
favorably situated countries.

I shall continue to urge the American people, in the interests of their own security, prosperity
and peace, to make sure that their own part of this great project be amply and cheerfully supported.
Free World decisions in this matter may spell the difference between world disaster and world
progress in freedom.

Other countries, some of which I visited last month, have similar needs.

A common meeting ground is desirable for those nations which are prepared to assist in the
development effort. During the past year I have discussed this matter with the leaders of several
Western Nations.

Because of its wealth of experience, the Organization for European Economic Cooperation could
help with initial studies. The goal is to enlist all available economic resources in the industrialized
Free World-especially private investment capital. But I repeat that .this help, no matter how
great, can be lastingly effective only if it is used as a supplement to the strength of spirit
and will of the people of the newly-developing nations.

By extending this help we hope to make possible the enthusiastic enrollment of these nations
under freedom's banner. No more startling contrast to a system of sullen satellites could be
imagined.

If we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive partnership between the less fortunate
nations and those that have already achieved a high state of economic advancement, we will
make brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security, freedom and peace. Otherwise,
the outlook could be dark indeed. We face what may be a turning point in history, and we must
act decisively.

As a nation we can successfully pursue these objectives only from a position of broadly based
strength.

No matter how earnest is our quest for guaranteed peace, we must maintain a high degree of
military effectiveness at the same time we are engaged in negotiating the issue of arms reduction.
Until tangible and mutually enforceable arms reduction measures are worked out, we will not
weaken the means of defending our institutions.

America possesses an enormous defense power. It is my studied conviction that no nation will
ever risk general war against us unless we should be so foolish as to neglect the defense forces
we now so powerfully support. It is world-wide knowledge that any nation which might be tempted
today to attack the United States, even though our country might sustain great losses, would
itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction. But I once again assure all peoples and all
nations that the United States, except in defense, will never turn loose this destructive power.

During the past year, our long-range striking power, unmatched today in manned bombers, has
taken on new strength as the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile has entered the operational
inventory. In fourteen recent test launchings, at ranges of over 5,000 miles, Atlas has been
striking on an average within two miles of the target. This is less than the length of a jet
runway--well within the circle of total destruction. Such performance is a great tribute to
American scientists and engineers, who in the past five years have had to telescope time and
technology to develop these long-range ballistic missiles, where America had none before.

This year, moreover, growing numbers of nuclear-powered submarines will enter our active forces,
some to be armed with Polaris missiles. These remarkable ships and weapons, ranging the oceans,
will be capable of accurate fire on targets virtually anywhere on earth. Impossible to destroy
by surprise attack, they will become one of our most effective sentinels for peace.

To meet situations of less than general nuclear war, we continue to maintain our carrier forces,
our many service units abroad, our always ready Army strategic forces and Marine Corps divisions,
and the civilian components. The continuing modernization of these forces is a costly but necessary
process, and is scheduled to go forward at a rate which will steadily add to our strength.

The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores, on land and sea, is persuasive
demonstration of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies for collective
security. Moreover, I have directed that steps be taken to program our military assistance
to these allies on a longer range basis. This is necessary for a sounder collective defense system.

Next I refer to our effort in space exploration, which is often mistakenly supposed to be an
integral part of defense research and development.

First, America has made great contributions in the past two years to the world's fund of knowledge
of astrophysics and space science. These discoveries are of present interest chiefly to the
scientific community; but they are important foundation-stones for more extensive exploration
of outer space for the ultimate benefit of all mankind.

Second, our military missile program, going forward so successfully, does not suffer from our
present lack of very large rocket engines, which are so necessary in distant space exploration.
I am assured by experts that the thrust of our present missiles is fully adequate for defense
requirements.

Third, the United States is pressing forward in the development of large rocket engines to
place much heavier vehicles into space for exploration purposes.

Fourth, in the meantime, it is necessary to remember that we have only begun to probe the environment
immediately surrounding the earth. Using launch systems presently available, we are developing
satellites to scout the world's weather; satellite relay stations to facilitate and extend
communications over the globe; for navigation aids to give accurate bearings to ships and aircraft;
and for perfecting instruments to collect and transmit the data we seek. This is the area holding
the most promise for early and useful applications of space technology.

Fifth, we have just completed a year's experience with our new space law. I believe it deficient
in certain particulars and suggested improvements will be submitted shortly.

The accomplishment of the many tasks I have alluded to requires the continuous strengthening
of the spiritual, intellectual, and economic sinews of American life. The steady purpose of
our society is to assure justice, before God, for every individual. We must be ever alert that
freedom does not wither through the careless amassing of restrictive controls or the lack of
courage to deal boldly with the giant issues of the day.

A year ago, when I met with you, the nation was emerging from an economic downturn, even though
the signs of resurgent prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful. Today
our surging strength is apparent to everyone. 1960 promises to be the most prosperous year
in our history.

Yet we continue to be afflicted by nagging disorders.

Among current problems that require solution are:

--the need to protect the public interest in situations of prolonged labor-management stalemate;

--the persistent refusal to come to grips with a critical problem in one sector of American
agriculture;

--the continuing threat of inflation, together with the persisting tendency toward fiscal irresponsibility;

--in certain instances the denial to some of our citizens of equal protection of the law.

Every American was disturbed by the prolonged dispute in the steel industry and the protracted
delay in reaching a settlement.

We are all relieved that a settlement has at last been achieved in that industry. Percentagewise,
by this settlement the increase to the steel companies in employment costs is lower than in
any prior wage settlement since World War II. It is also gratifying to note that despite the
increase in wages and benefits several of the major steel producers have announced that there
will be no increase in steel prices at this time. The national interest demands that in the
period of industrial peace which has been assured by the new contract both management and labor
make every possible effort to increase efficiency and productivity in the manufacture of steel
so that price increases can be avoided.

One of the lessons of this story is that the potential danger to the entire Nation of longer
and greater strikes must be met. To insure against such possibilities we must of course depend
primarily upon the good commonsense of the responsible individuals. It is my intention to encourage
regular discussions between management and labor outside the bargaining table, to consider
the interest of the public as well as their mutual interest in the maintenance of industrial
peace, price stability and economic growth.

To me, it seems almost absurd for the United States to recognize the need, and so earnestly
to seek, for cooperation among the nations unless we can achieve voluntary, dependable, abiding
cooperation among the important segments of our own free society.

Failure to face up to basic issues in areas other than those of labor-management can cause
serious strains on the firm freedom supports of our society.

I refer to agriculture as one of these areas.

Our basic farm laws were written 27 years ago, in an emergency effort to redress hardship caused
by a world-wide depression. They were continued--and their economic distortions intensified--during
World War II in order to provide incentives for production of food needed to sustain a war-torn
free world.

Today our farm problem is totally different. It is that of effectively adjusting to the changes
caused by a scientific revolution. When the original farm laws were written, an hour's farm
labor produced only one fourth as much wheat as at present. Farm legislation is woefully out-of-date,
ineffective, and expensive.

For years we have gone on with an outmoded system which not only has failed to protect farm
income, but also has produced soaring, threatening surpluses. Our farms have been left producing
for war while America has long been at peace.

