There I escaped to a seat by Lady Diana, where Viola could expend her enthusiasm in clutches
and squeezes of my hand.  Eustace was by this time wrought up to such a state that he hardly
knew what he was doing, and his first arrow wavered and went feebly aside.  Two or three more
shot, and then the tall figure came to the front; one moment, and the cry was "Gold," while
Viola's clap of the hands brought on her a frown from her mother, who thought demonstrativeness
improper.  She had to content herself with pinching my fingers every time one of those shafts
went home to the heart of the target, and Harold stood, only too facile princeps, while Eustace
sauntered up to us with the old story about the sun or the damp, I forget which, only it was
something that had spoilt his archery.

Hippolyta was undaunted.  The small target and longer range had thrown out many a competitor
before now, and her not very low-pitched tone was heard observing that no dumb giant should
beat her at her own tools.

Whatever had been her weariness of her successes before, it was gone now, and she shot splendidly.
Never had such shooting been known in the annals of the club, and scarcely a word passed as
the two went pacing between the two little targets, Harold with his calm, easy movement, business-like
but without effort, and Hippolyta with excitement beginning to tell on her.  Each time she
passed us we saw her step more impetuous, the glow on her cheeks deeper, and at last that her
eyes were full of tears; and after that, one arrow went into the outer white, and the last
even into the green; while Harry's final shot was into that one great confluent hole that the
centre of the target had become.

          "Heard ye the arrow hurtle through the sky?
           Heard ye the dragon monster's deathful cry?"

whispered Viola. "Mamma won't let me cheer, and I must have it out somehow."

And as I sprang up and hurried to Harold, she came with me, taking care to cast no look behind,
for fear of detaining glances; and she put out both hands to shake his, as he stood with the
smile lighting up his face as he saw the pleasure he had given; though Eustace never came forward,
unable to rejoice where he had been so palpably and publicly excelled.

Hippolyta behaved well.  She came up holding out her hand, and saying, "Well, Mr. Alison, if
one is to fall, it is a pleasure to have so mighty a victor.  But why did you never let me
see before what a Palnatoke (if I must not say Tell) I had to deal with?"

"I had no time for the practices," said Harold, puzzled as to who Palnatoke was.

"Worse and worse!  You don't mean that you shoot like this without practice?"

"Lucy taught me a little."

"Well, if heaven-born archers come down on one, there's nothing for it but submitting.  Robin
Hood must prevail," said Hippolyta, as the belt was handed over to Harold, with a sigh that
made him say in excuse, "I would not have done it, but that Eustace wanted to have it in his
hands, for family reasons."

"Then let him look to it; I mean to get it again next year.  And, I say, Mr. Alison, I have
a right to some compensation.  All you archers are coming to lunch at Therford on Thursday,
if the sun shines, to be photographed, you know.  Now you must come to breakfast, and bring
your lion's skin and your bow--to be done alone. It is all the consolation I ask.  Make him,
Lucy.  Bring him."

There was no refusing; and that was the way the photograph came to be taken.  We were reminded
by a note after we went home, including in the invitation Eustace, who, after being a little
sulky, had made up his mind that a long range was easier to shoot at than a short one, and
so that he should have won the prize if he had had the chance; and the notion of being photographed
was, of course, delightful to him.

"In what character shall you take me?" he asked of Miss Horsman, when we were going out on
the lawn, and it dawned on him that Harry was to be a Hercules.

"Oh! as Adonis, of course," said Hippo.

"Or Eurystheus," whispered her sister.

Eustace did not understand, and looked pleased, saying something about a truly classical get
up; but Harold muttered to me, "Aren't they making game of him?"

"They will take care not to vex him," I said.

But Harold could not overlook it, and took a dislike to the Horsmans on the spot, which all
Hippolyta's genuine admiration of him could not overcome.  She knew what the work of his eighteen
months in England had been, and revered him with such enthusiasm for what she called his magnificent
manhood and beneficence, as was ready on the least encouragement to have become something a
good deal warmer; but whatever she did served to make her distasteful to him.  First, she hastily
shuffled over Eustace's portrait, because, as she allowed us to hear, "he would give her no
peace till he was disposed of."  And then she not only tormented her passive victim a good
deal in trying to arrange him as Hercules, but she forgot the woman in the artist, and tried
to make him bare his neck and shoulder in a way that made him blush while he uttered his emphatic
"No, no!" and Baby Jack supported him by telling her she "would only make a prize-fighter of
him."  Moreover, he would have stood more at ease if the whole of Therford had not been overrun
with dogs.  He scorned to complain, and I knew him too well to do so for him; but it was a
strain on his self-command to have them all smelling about his legs, and wanting to mumble
the lion skin, especially Hippo's great bloodhound, Kirby, as big as a calf, who did once make
him start by thrusting his long cold nose into his hand. Hippo laughed, but Harold could do
nothing but force out a smile.

And I always saw the disgusted and bored expression most prominently in her performance, which
at the best could never have given the grandeur of the pose she made him take, with the lion
skin over his shoulder, and the arrows and bow in his hand.  He muttered that a rifle would
be more rational, and that he could hold it better, but withdrew the protest when he found
that Hippo was ready to implore him to teach her to shoot with pistol, rifle--anything.

"Your brother can show you.  You've only to fire at a mark," was all that could be got out of him.

Nor would he be entrapped into a beneficent talk.  His great talent for silence served him
well, and though I told him afterwards that he had not done Hippo justice--for she honestly
wanted an opening for being useful--he was not mollified.  "I don't like tongue," was all he
further said of her.

But whatever Hippo was, or whatever she did, I shall always be grateful to her for that photograph.

CHAPTER X.

DERMOT'S MARE.

All this time Dermot Tracy had been from home.  He had not come back after the season, but
had been staying with friends and going to various races, in which, as usual, he had heavy
stakes.  He persuaded my two nephews to meet him at Doncaster, where he ran one of the horses
bred on his Irish estate, and afterwards to go and make him a visit at Killy Marey, County
Kildare, where he used to stay about once a year, shooting or hunting, as the season might
be, and always looking after his horses and entertaining all the squires and squireens of the
neighbourhood, and many of the officers from the Curragh.  The benefit of those visits was
very doubtful both as to morals and purses, and Lord Erymanth pointedly said he was sorry when
he heard that Harold and Eustace were of the party.

I do not know whether Lady Diana viewed them as bad companions for her son, or her son as a
bad companion for them; but she was very severe about it, and when I thought of the hunt dinner
at Foling, my heart sank, even while I was indignant at any notion of distrusting Harold; and
it did indeed seem to me that he had learnt where to look for strength and self-command, and
that he had a real hatred and contempt of evil.  Yet I should have been more entirely happy
about him if he had not still held aloof from all those innermost ordinances, of which he somehow
did not feel the need, or understand the full drift.  Nor would he bow himself to give to any
man the confidence or the influence over him he had given to an incapable girl like me.  And
if I should have feared for the best brought up, most religious of young men, in such scenes
as I was told were apt to take place at Killy Marey, how could I not be anxious for my nephews?
But nothing ever turns out as one expects.

I was at Arked one day, and Lady Diana was telling me of the great rambling house at Killy
Marey, and how, when she arrived as a bride, none of the doors would shut except two that would
not open, behind one of which lived the family ghost; how the paper hung in festoons on the
walls, and the chairs were of the loveliest primrose-coloured brocade; and how the green of
the meadows was so wonderful, that she was always remembering it was the Emerald Isle; but
how hopeless and impossible it was to get anything properly done, and how no good could be
done where the Romish priests had interfered.  All the old story of course.  In the midst,
a telegraph paper was brought to her; she turned deadly white, and bade me open it, for she
could not.  I knew she thought her son had met his father's fate, and expected to astonish
her with the tidings that he was coming home by the next steamer, or that he had sent some
game, or the like.  Alas! no; the mother's foreboding had been too near the truth.  The telegram
was from Eustace: "Tracy has had a bad horse accident.  The doctor wishes for you."

There was nothing for it but to speed the mother and daughter on their hurried start to catch
the Holyhead packet and cross that night.  I went home to await in terror and trembling the
despatch I might receive, and to be enlivened by Mrs. Sam Alison's cheering accounts of all
the accidents she could recollect.  "Horses are dangerous creatures to meddle with, and your
poor papa never would let me take the reins when we kept a gig--which was when he was living,
you know, my dear. 'You never can trust their heels,' he used to say; and it was only last
week little Cocker was kicked off, but that was a donkey, and they were using him shamefully,"
&c. &c. &c.  I felt as if a swarm of bees were humming in my ears, and walked about to make
the suspense more tolerable, but I absolutely had no news at all till Viola's letter came.
It was a long one, for she could be of no service as yet, and to write letters was at once
her use and her solace.

Among the horses which Dermot's Irish agent had been buying for training purposes was a mare,
own sister to Harold's hunter--a splendid creature of three years old, of wonderful beauty,
power, and speed, but with the like indomitable temper.  She would suffer no living thing to
approach her but one little stable-boy, and her own peculiar cat, which slept on her back,
and took all sorts of liberties with her.  Her value would be great if she could be trained,
but the training was the problem.  Harold, who, partly from early familiarity, partly from
the gentleness of fearless strength, had a matchless power over horses, had made acquaintance
with her one evening, had been suffered in her box, had fed her, caressed her cat, and led
her round the stable-yard as a first stage in the conquest of horse by man.

In the early morning, Dermot, quite as fearless, and unwilling that anyone should do or dare
more than himself, had gone alone to make the same attempt, but no sooner did the mare find
him beside her, than she seized him by the shoulder with her teeth, threw him down, and kicked
and trampled on him.  None of the grooms could succeed in rescuing him, and it was only when
Eustace's cry had summoned Harold, that, grasping the mare's halter and forcing her back with
his arm of iron, he made it possible for Eustace and a groom to drag out poor Dermot's senseless
form, in a state that at first appeared to be death itself.  For several days his condition
was so extremely precarious, that Harold never once left him till his mother arrived, and even
after that was his most effective nurse.  He sent me a message, in Viola's letter, that he
had not had a moment to write, and hoped I had not been too anxious.

After this, Viola wrote every day, and told of gradual improvement in her brother, and at last
how he had been lifted to the sofa, and mamma hoped in a fortnight or three weeks he might
be able to be taken home. By the next post came a note from Harold, saying he could be spared,
and was coming home, and that very evening he walked into the house, and was welcomed by Dora
with shrieks of ecstatic joy.

He said Dermot was better, but he looked worn, and had the indefinable expression of pain which
made me sure that something had gone wrong, and presently I found out that the bite in the
shoulder was a very bad business, still causing much suffering, but that the most serious matter
was, that a kick in the side had renewed the damage left by the old Alma bullet, and that great
care would be needed all the winter. But Harold seemed more reluctant to open his mouth than
ever, and only, by most diligent pumping, did Mrs. Alison get out of him what doctors they
had called in, and whether they had used all the recipes for wounds and bruises that she had
entrusted to me to be sent, and which had for the most part remained in my blotting-book.

The next morning, to my grief and distress, he did not come to my room, but I found he had
been up and out long before it was light, and he made his appearance at eleven o'clock, saying
he had promised to go and give Lord Erymanth an account of his nephew, and wanted me to come
with him "to do the talking, or he should never stand it." If I did not object to the dog-cart
and Daniel O'Rourke immediately, we should be there by luncheon time.  I objected to nothing
that Harry drove, but all the way to Erymanth not ten words passed, and those were matters
of necessity.  I had come to the perception that when he did not want to speak it was better
to let him take his own time.

Lord Erymanth was anxious, not only about Dermot's health, and his sister's strength and spirits,
but he wanted to hear what Harold thought of the place and of the tone of the country; and,
after our meal, when he grew more confidential, he elicited short plain answers full of information
in short compass, and not very palatable.  The estate was "not going on well."  "Did Harold
think well of the agent?" "He had been spoilt."  "How?"  "By calls for supplies." "Were the
people attached to Dermot?"  "To a certain degree."  "Would it be safe for him to live there?"
"He ought."

Lord Erymanth entirely assented to this, and we found that he had all along held that his sister
had been in error for not having remained at Killy Marey, and brought up her son to his duties
as a landlord, whatever the danger; though of course she, poor thing, could hardly be expected
to see it in that light.  He evidently viewed this absenteeism as the cause of the wreck of
Dermot's youth, and those desultory habits of self-indulgence and dissipation which were overcoming
that which was good and noble in him; and the good old man showed that he blamed himself for
what he had conceded to his sister in the first shock of her misfortune.  Harold had told him
of the warm feeling shown by the tenantry when Dermot was lying in danger of his life, and
their rejoicing when he turned the corner and began to recover, and he asked anxiously whether
all this affection might not awaken a responsive chord, and draw him to "what was undoubtedly
his proper sphere."

"It will," said Harold.

"You think so?  And there is little doubt but that your cousin's influence at such a critical
period may have great effect in turning the scale?"

Harold nodded.

"More especially as, from the intelligence I have received, I have little doubt that the connection
will be drawn a good deal closer before long," said Lord Erymanth with a benignant smile at
us both. "I suppose we must not begin to congratulate one another yet, for I may conclude that
nothing had actually taken place when you came away."

"Nothing."

"When my sister became conscious of the condition of affairs and wrote to consult me, I had
no hesitation in replying that, though Viola's connections might warrant greater expectations
in a worldly point of view, yet I thought that there was every reason for promoting an attachment
to a gentleman of family equal to her own on one side at least, and whose noble exertions during
the past two years for the welfare of all concerned with him, not only obliterate all recollection
of past disadvantages, but in every way promise honour and happiness to all connected with him."

I was not a little excited, but one of the worst fits of restlessness under Lord Erymanth's
harangues had come upon Harold.  He only sat it out by pulling so many hairs out of his beard
that they made an audible frizzle in the fire when he brushed them off his knee, and stood
up, saying gruffly, "You are very good; he deserves it.  But I must get Lucy home in good time.
May I go and speak to your coachman?  Tracy gave me a message for him."

Harold was off, and Lord Erymanth observed, "A very fine young man that.  It is much to be
regretted that he did not employ the advantages he enjoyed at Sydney as his cousin Eustace
did, and left himself so rugged and unpolished."

"You must learn to like him, dear Lord Erymanth," I said.  "He is all a very dear brother could
be to me."

And allegiance to him kept back every word of that infinite superiority, which was never more
shown than by the opinion of Eustace, which his great unselfish devotion continued, without
the least deceit, to impress on most people.  Lord Erymanth rejoiced, and we agreed that it
was very lucky for me that I preferred Harold, since I should have had to yield up my possession
of Eustace.  The old gentleman was most kind and genial, and much delighted that the old breach
with the Alisons should be healed, and that his niece should make a marriage which he greatly
preferred to her sister's, and together we sung the praises of our dear Viola, where we had
no difference of opinion.

Harold only came back when the carriage came round, and no sooner had we driven off than I
broke out--"Harry, I had no notion matters had gone so far.  Fancy, Lady Diana consulting her
brother!  It must be very near a crisis.  I can't think why you did not stay to see it."

"Because I am a fool."

The horse flew on till we were nearly out at the park-gates, and a bewildered sense of his
meaning was coming before me.  "You wished it," said I rather foolishly.

"I did.  I do.  Only I don't want to see it."

"My poor dear Harold!"

"Pshaw!"--the sound was like a wild beast's, and made the horse plunge--"I shall get over it."

Then, presently, in a more natural voice, "I must go out again in the spring.  There are things
to be looked to at Boola Boola for both of us.  I shall only wait till Tracy is well enough
to go with me."

"He!  Dermot Tracy?"

"Yes.  It will be the best way to break out of the old lines."

"I can fancy that.  Oh, Harold! are you going to save him?  That will be the most blessed work
of all!" I cried, for somehow a feeling like an air of hope and joy came over me.

