Later, when I was in the Baccarat sector, I met a most interesting and effective man who was
in the Supply Department of the "Y" on week days, and conducted services in outlying camps
every Sunday morning with great success. He had been a circus acrobat back in the States. What
a revolutionizing influence war is, with preachers chauffeuring and acrobats preaching! The
important point was that they were all serving whole-heartedly in whatever way they could.

It was in Baccarat that I met West again, running his car, transporting newspapers or moving-picture
machines, or canteen supplies, or itinerant entertainers such as I, out over any sort of road
toward the front line. His glimpses of the great war were from an angle of vision that makes
what he has to say in this book well worth reading. His duties took him into every sort of
billet, and brought him into close touch with many branches of the army, as well as with all
sorts of welfare work and workers. I find that he refers, in passing, to that dramatic moment
when we stood on a hilltop and watched the bombing of Baccarat just below us, while the Boche
machine passed very close overhead. He does not say that he hid behind one tree and I hid behind
another, trying to keep the trunks between us and the flying shrapnel. Nor does he say that
he picked up and carried home a fragment which landed between us in the road, although it came
just as near to me as it did to him!

This started out to be an introduction to a book. It is really a personal expression of good
will toward one whom I was glad to meet and touch for a moment in that strange whirlpool of
human activity last summer in France.

                                                  BURGES JOHNSON.

  Vassar College,
  March 3, 1919.

CHAPTER I

FIVE WEEKS IN A FLIVVER

"Halt!"

When above the noise and rattle of the car--for a Ford always carries a rattle--you hear the
stentorian command of the guard, instantly every stopping device is automatically applied.

"Who Goes There?"

"A friend with the countersign."

"Advance! and give the countersign."

The guard at charge, with bayonet fixed, awaits your coming. When you get within a few feet
of the point of his bayonet the guard again commands, "Halt!" In the silence and blackness
of the night you whisper the password and if he is satisfied that you are indeed a friend he
says, "Pass, friend." If he is not satisfied you are detained until your identity has been
established.

No matter how many hundreds of times you hear the challenge ring out, each time you hear it
a new thrill runs through your whole being and a new respect for military authority holds you
captive, for you instinctively know that behind that challenge is the cold steel and a deadly
missile.

It was a splendidly camouflaged camionette that I inherited from Hughes when I went to Baccarat
on the Alsatian border. In all my dangerous trips, by night and day, it never failed, and I
think back to it now with a tenderness bordering on affection.

My first day on the job I was sent out to five huts with supplies, driving my own car and piloting
the men who were sent out to pilot me. Although they had been over the roads and were supposed
to know the way, they did not have a good sense of direction and so were easily lost.

The headquarters of the 37th Division were at Baccarat on the Alsatian border. Strasburg lay
fifty miles to the east and Metz fifty-five miles to the northwest. To hold this front, an
area fifteen to twenty miles long, was the task of the Ohio boys until they were relieved by
the French the middle of September and sent into the Argonne Forest.

Over this area were scattered twenty-one Y.M.C.A. huts. The Headquarters hut was at Baccarat,
which was farthest from the front line--about ten miles back as the crow flies. The other huts
were scattered over the area at points most advantageous for serving the boys and up to within
a few hundred yards of the line. We had thirty-four men and ten women secretaries. Our farthest
advanced woman worker had a hut all her own at Hablainville, a village where our troops were
billeted and where Fritzie kept everyone on the qui vive by his intermittent gifts of high-explosive
bombs and shells.

Miss O'Connor always inspired confidence. It mattered not whether she was dealing with the
hysterical French women when bombs exploded in their gardens and fields, or whether she was
counseling with the Colonel, at whose table she was the invited guest. Her quiet assurance,
her cordial greeting, her intelligent understanding, and her keen sally of wit made her always
welcome. And the boys thronged her hut. She did not try to "mother" them--the mistake some
canteen workers made. Nor did she try to "make an impression" upon them. She quietly lived
her life among them. No one could long be boisterous where she was, and so I always found her
hut a rendezvous where men were glad to resort as they came from the battle or from camp.

Many were absorbed in their reading, of which there was a good assortment--the daily papers,
the magazines and a choice collection of books furnished by the American Library Association.
Other groups were intent upon chess or checkers, while in the piano corner were the musically
inclined. Sometimes it was a piano or a baritone solo, but most often the boys were singing
"Keep the Home Fires Burning," "The Long, Long Trail," or "Katy."

One day when delivering to the hut at Neufchateau, I was attracted by the strains of music
that came from the piano in the auditorium--the "Y" there had a large double hut. I slipped
into a back seat to listen. A group of boys were around the piano while others were scattered
through the building attracted as I had been. At the old French piano was a small khaki-clad
figure, coaxing from its keys with wizard fingers such strains as we had not dreamed were possible.
We were held spellbound until the musician, having finished, quietly walked away, leaving his
auditors suspended somewhere between earth and heaven. One by one we walked silently out to
our respective duties of helping to make the world safe for such as he.

One Sunday evening just at dusk, I drove to our camp at Ker Avor. The boys called this camp
their summer home. It surely was an ideal spot in the heart of a pine forest, high up in the
Vosges Mountains. It was also near enough to the enemy lines--about a mile distant--to make
it mighty interesting.

After delivering our supplies to the hut we went out to where a gang of soldiers who were off
duty had gathered in the forest. One was playing a harmonica and another was "jigging" and
telling funny stories. Instantly and gladly they swung the gathering into a religious service,
with songs from the "Y" hymn book and a fine snappy address as a speaker stood on a hummock
surrounded by the silent, thoughtful bunch. The sky was our canopy and with the moonlight filtering
through the branches of the pines, an indelible impression was registered on every fellow there.

The boys were happy to have us come and showed us about their camp, including an ingenious
little chapel which had been built by the Germans during their occupancy of this territory
in the early part of the War.

       *       *       *       *       *

