

"Now," said Wyant, pausing on the steps.

The Count, who had regained some measure of self-possession, began to speak in a high key,
with an accompaniment of conciliatory gesture.

"My dear sir--my dear Mr. Wyant--you find me in an abominable position--that, as a man of honor,
I immediately confess. I have taken advantage of you--yes! I have counted on your amiability,
your chivalry--too far, perhaps? I confess it! But what could I do? It was to oblige a lady"--he
laid a hand on his heart--"a lady whom I would die to serve!" He went on with increasing volubility,
his deliberate English swept away by a torrent of Italian, through which Wyant, with some difficulty,
struggled to a comprehension of the case.

Count Ottaviano, according to his own statement, had come to Siena some months previously,
on business connected with his mother's property; the paternal estate being near Orvieto, of
which ancient city his father was syndic. Soon after his arrival in Siena the young Count had
met the incomparable daughter of Doctor Lombard, and falling deeply in love with her, had prevailed
on his parents to ask her hand in marriage. Doctor Lombard had not opposed his suit, but when
the question of settlements arose it became known that Miss Lombard, who was possessed of a
small property in her own right, had a short time before invested the whole amount in the purchase
of the Bergamo Leonardo. Thereupon Count Ottaviano's parents had politely suggested that she
should sell the picture and thus recover her independence; and this proposal being met by a
curt refusal from Doctor Lombard, they had withdrawn their consent to their son's marriage.
The young lady's attitude had hitherto been one of passive submission; she was horribly afraid
of her father, and would never venture openly to oppose him; but she had made known to Ottaviano
her intention of not giving him up, of waiting patiently till events should take a more favorable
turn. She seemed hardly aware, the Count said with a sigh, that the means of escape lay in
her own hands; that she was of age, and had a right to sell the picture, and to marry without
asking her father's consent. Meanwhile her suitor spared no pains to keep himself before her,
to remind her that he, too, was waiting and would never give her up.

Doctor Lombard, who suspected the young man of trying to persuade Sybilla to sell the picture,
had forbidden the lovers to meet or to correspond; they were thus driven to clandestine communication,
and had several times, the Count ingenuously avowed, made use of the doctor's visitors as a
means of exchanging letters.

"And you told the visitors to ring twice?" Wyant interposed.

The young man extended his hands in a deprecating gesture. Could Mr. Wyant blame him? He was
young, he was ardent, he was enamored! The young lady had done him the supreme honor of avowing
her attachment, of pledging her unalterable fidelity; should he suffer his devotion to be outdone?
But his purpose in writing to her, he admitted, was not merely to reiterate his fidelity; he
was trying by every means in his power to induce her to sell the picture. He had organized
a plan of action; every detail was complete; if she would but have the courage to carry out
his instructions he would answer for the result. His idea was that she should secretly retire
to a convent of which his aunt was the Mother Superior, and from that stronghold should transact
the sale of the Leonardo. He had a purchaser ready, who was willing to pay a large sum; a sum,
Count Ottaviano whispered, considerably in excess of the young lady's original inheritance;
once the picture sold, it could, if necessary, be removed by force from Doctor Lombard's house,
and his daughter, being safely in the convent, would be spared the painful scenes incidental
to the removal.