Dr. Latham, too, and Prof. Child, whose erroneous teaching on this point is still more marvellous,
not only inculcate the idea that possessives in form may be in apposition, but seem to suppose
that two possessive endings are essential to the relation. Forgetting all such English as we
have in the phrases, "John the Baptist's head,"--"For Jacob my servant's sake,"--"Julius Cæsar's
Commentaries,"--they invent sham expressions, too awkward ever to have come to their knowledge
from any actual use,--such as, "John's the farmer's wife,"--"Oliver's the spy's evidence,"--and
then end their section with the general truth, "For words to be in apposition with each other,
they must be in the same case."--Elementary Grammar, Revised Edition, p. 152. What sort of
scholarship is that in which fictitious examples mislead even their inventors?

[345] In Professor Fowler's recent and copious work, "The English Language in its Elements
and Forms," our present Reciprocals are called, not Pronominal Adjectives, but "Pronouns,"
and are spoken of, in the first instance, thus: "§248. A RECIPROCAL PRONOUN is one that implies
the mutual action of different agents. EACH OTHER, and ONE ANOTHER, are our reciprocal forms,
which are treated exactly as if they were compound pronouns, taking for their genitives, each
other's, one another's. Each other is properly used of two, and one another of more." The definition
here given takes for granted what is at least disputable, that "each other," or "one another,"
is not a phrase, but is merely "one pronoun." But, to none of his three important positions
here taken, does the author himself at all adhere. In §451, at Note 3, he teaches thus: "'They
love each other.' Here each is in the nominative case in apposition with they, and other is
in the objective case. 'They helped one another.' Here one is in apposition with they, and
another is in the objective case." Now, by this mode of parsing, the reciprocal terms "are
treated," not as "compound pronouns," but as phrases consisting of distinct or separable words:
and, as being separate or separable words, whether they be Adjectives or Pronouns, they conform
not to his definition above. Out of the sundry instances in which, according to his own showing,
he has misapplied one or the other of these phrases, I cite the following: (1.) "The two ideas
of Science and Art differ from one another as the understanding differs from the will."--Fowler's
Gram., 1850, §180. Say,--"from each other;" or,--"one from the other." (2.) "THOU, THY, THEE,
are etymologically related to each other."--Ib., §216. Say,--"to one an other;" because there
are "more" than "two." (3.) "Till within some centuries, the Germans, like the French and the
English, addressed each other in familiar conversation by the Second Person Singular."--Ib.,
§221. Say,--"addressed one an other." (4.) "Two sentences are, on the other hand, connected
in the way of co-ordination [,] when they are not thus dependent one upon another."--Ib., §332.
Say,--"upon each other;" or,--"one upon the other;" because there are but two. (5.) "These
two rivers are at a great distance from one another."--Ib., §617. Say,--"from each other;"
or,--"one from the other." (6.) "The trees [in the Forest of Bombast] are close, spreading,
and twined into each other."--Ib., §617. Say,--"into one an other."

[346] For this quotation, Dr. Campbell gives, in his margin, the following reference: "Introduction,
&c., Sentences, Note on the 6th Phrase." But in my edition of Dr. Lowth's Introduction to English
Grammar, (a Philadelphia edition of 1799,) I do not find the passage. Perhaps it has been omitted
in consequence of Campbell's criticism, of which I here cite but a part.--G. BROWN.

[347] By some grammarians it is presumed to be consistent with the nature of participles to
govern the possessive case; and Hiley, if he is to be understood literally, assumes it as an
"established principle," that they all do so! I. THE BRITISH MUSEUM

IN the year 1753 a remarkable lottery drawing took place in London.

It was authorized, through Parliament, by "his gracious Majesty"

King George the Second. Such notables as the archbishop of Canterbury
and the lord chancellor of the realm took official interest in its
success.

It was advertised far and wide--as advertising went in those days--in the Gazette, and it found a
host of subscribers. Of the fifty thousand tickets--each costing three pounds--more than four thousand
were to be of the class which the act of Parliament naively describes as "fortunate tickets." The prizes aggregated
a hundred thousand pounds.

To be sure, state lotteries were no unique feature in the England
of that day. They formed as common a method of raising revenue in
the island realm of King George II. as they still do in the alleged
continental portion of his realm, France, and in the land of his nativity,
Germany.

Indeed, the particular lottery in question was to be officered by the standing committee on lotteries,
whose official business was to "secure two and a half million pounds for his Majesty" by this means.
But the great lottery of 1754 had interest far beyond the common run, for it aimed to meet a national need of an anomalous
kind--a purely intellectual need. The money which it was expected to bring was to be used to purchase
some collections of curiosities and of books that had been offered the government, and to provide for
their future care and disposal as a public trust for the benefit and use of the people. The lottery
brought the desired money as a matter of course, for the "fool's
tax" is the one form of revenue that is paid without stint and without
grumbling.

Almost
fifty thousand pounds remained in the hands of the archbishop of Canterbury
and his fellow-trustees after the prizes were paid. And with this
sum the institution was founded which has been increasingly famous
ever since as the British Museum.

The idea which had this splendid result had originated with Sir Hans
Sloane, baronet, a highly respected practising physician of Chelsea,
who had accumulated a great store of curios, and who desired to see
the collection kept intact and made useful to the public after his
death.

Dying in 1753, this gentleman had directed in his will that the collection
should be offered to the government for the sum of twenty thousand
pounds; it had cost him fifty thousand pounds.

The government promptly accepted the offer--as why should it not, since it had at hand so easy
a means of raising the necessary money?

It
was determined to supplement the collection with a library of rare
books, for which ten thousand pounds was to be paid to the Right Honorable
Henrietta Cavendish Holies, Countess of Oxford and Countess Mortimer,
Relict of Edward, Earl of Oxford and Earl Mortimer, and the Most Noble
Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Portland, their only daughter.

The purchases were made and joined with the Cottonian library, which
was already in hand.

A home was found for the joint collection, along with some minor ones,
in Montague Mansion, on Great Russell Street, and the British Museum
came into being. Viewed retrospectively, it seems a small affair;
but it was a noble collection for its day; indeed, the Sloane collection
of birds and mammals had been the finest private natural history collection
in existence.

But, oddly enough, the weak feature of the museum at first was exactly that feature which has been
its strongest element in more recent years--namely, the department of antiquities. This department
was augmented from time to time, notably by the acquisition of the treasures of Sir William Hamilton in 1773;
but it was not till the beginning of the nineteenth century that
the windfall came which laid the foundation for the future incomparable
greatness of the museum as a repository of archaeological treasures.

In that memorable year the British defeated the French at Alexandria,
and received as a part of the conqueror's spoils a collection of Egyptian
antiquities which the savants of Napoleon's expedition had gathered and carefully
packed, and even shipped preparatory to sending them to the Louvre. The feelings
of these savants may readily be imagined when, through this sad prank
of war, their invaluable treasures were envoyed, not to their beloved
France, but to the land of their dearest enemies, there to be turned
over to the trustees of the British Museum.

The museum authorities were not slow to appreciate the value of the treasures that had thus fallen into
their hands, yet for the moment it proved to them something of a white elephant. Montague Mansion was
already crowded; moreover, its floors had never been intended to hold such heavy objects, so it became
imperatively necessary to provide new quarters for the collection.
This was done in 1807 by the erection of a new building on the old
site. But the trustees of that day failed to gauge properly the new
impulse to growth that had come to the museum with the Egyptian antiquities,
for the new building was neither in itself sufficient for the needs
of the immediate future nor yet so planned as to be susceptible of
enlargement with reasonable architectural effect.

The mistakes were soon apparent, but, despite various tentatives and
"meditatings," fourteen years elapsed before the present magnificent building
was planned. The construction, wing by wing, began in 1823, but it
was not until 1846 that the last vestige of the old museum buildings
had vanished, and in their place, spreading clear across the spacious
site, stood a structure really worthy of the splendid collection for
which it was designed.

But no one who sees this building to-day would suspect its relative youth.
Half a century of London air can rival a cycle of Greece or Italy
in weathering effect, and the fine building of the British Museum frowns
out at the beholder to-day as grimy and ancient-seeming as if its
massive columns dated in fact from the old Grecian days which they
recall.

Regardless of age, however, it is one of the finest and most massive specimens of Ionic architecture
in existence. Forty-four massive columns, in double tiers, form
its frontal colonnade, jutting forward in a wing at either end.

The flight of steps leading to the central entrance is in itself one hundred and twenty-five feet in
extent; the front as a whole covers three hundred and seventy feet. Capping the portico is a sculptured
tympanum by Sir Richard Westmacott, representing the "Progress of Civilization"
not unworthily. As a whole, the building is one of the few in London
that are worth visiting for an inspection of their exterior alone. It
seems admirably designed to be, as it is, the repository of one of
the finest collections of Oriental and classical antiquities in the
world.

There is an air of repose about the ensemble that is in itself suggestive
of the Orient; and the illusion is helped out by the pigeons that flock
everywhere undisturbed about the approaches to the building, fluttering to
be fed from the hand of some recognized friend, and scarcely evading
the feet of the casual wayfarer. With this scene before him, if one will
close his ears to the hum of the great city at his back he can readily
imagine himself on classical soil, and, dreaming of Greece and Italy,
he will enter the door quite prepared to find himself in the midst
of antique marbles and the atmosphere of by-gone ages.

I have already pointed out that the turning-point in the history of
the British Museum came just at the beginning of the century, with
the acquisition of the Egyptian antiquities.

With this the institution threw off its swaddling-clothes. Hitherto it had been largely a museum of
natural history; in future, without neglecting this department, it
was to become equally important as a museum of archaeology. The Elgin
marbles, including the wonderful Parthenon frieze, confirmed this
character, and it was given the final touch by the reception, about
the middle of the century, of the magnificent Assyrian collection
just exhumed at the seat of old Nineveh by Mr. (afterwards Sir Henry)
Layard.

Since then these collections, with additions of similar character, have formed by far the most important
feature of the British Museum. But in the mean time archaeology has become a science.

Within recent years the natural history collection has been removed
in toto from the old building to a new site far out in South Kensington,
and the casual visitor is likely to think of it as a separate institution.

The building which it occupies is very modern in appearance as in fact. It is a large and unquestionably
striking structure, and one that gives opportunity for very radical difference of opinion as to its
architectural beauty. By some it is much admired; by others it is almost
equally scoffed at. Certain it is that it will hardly bear comparison with
the parent building in Great Russell Street.

Interiorly, the building of the natural history museum is admirably adapted
for its purpose. Its galleries are for the most part well lighted, and the main central
hall is particularly well adapted for an exhibition of specimens, to
which I shall refer more at length in a moment. For the rest there
is no striking departure from the conventional. Perhaps it is not desired
that there should be, since long experience seems to have settled fairly
well the problem of greatest economy of space, combined with best
lighting facilities, which always confronts the architect in founding
a natural history museum.

There is, however, one striking novel feature in connection with the
structure of the natural history museum at Kensington which must
not be overlooked. This is the quite unprecedented use of terra-cotta
ornamentation.

Without there is a striking display of half-decorative and half-realistic
forms; while within the walls and pillars everywhere are covered with terracotta
bas-reliefs representing the various forms of life appropriate to the particular
department of the museum which they ornament. This very excellent feature
might well be copied elsewhere, and doubtless will be from time to time.

As
to the exhibits proper within the museum, it may be stated in a word
that they cover the entire range of the faunas and floras of the globe
in a variety and abundance of specimens that are hardly excelled anywhere,
and only duplicated by one or two other collections in Europe and
two or three in America.

It would be but a reiteration of what the catalogues of all large collections exhibit were one to enumerate the various
forms here shown, but there are two or three exhibits in this museum which are
more novel and which deserve special mention. One of these is to be found
in a set of cases in the main central hall. Here are exhibited, in a delightfully
popular form, some of the lessons that the evolutionist has taught
us during the last half-century.

Appropriately enough, a fine marble statue of Darwin, whose work is the fountain-head of all these lessons,
is placed on the stairway just beyond, as if to view with approval this beautiful exemplification of his
work.

One of these cases illustrates the variations of animals under domestication, the particular specimens
selected being chiefly the familiar pigeon, in its various forms, and
the jungle-fowl with its multiform domesticated descendants.

Another case illustrates very strikingly the subject of protective
coloration of animals.

Two companion
cases are shown, each occupied by specimens of the same species of
birds and animals--in one case in their summer plumage and pelage
and in the other clad in the garb of winter.

The surroundings in the case have, of course, been carefully prepared to
represent the true environments of the creatures at the appropriate
seasons. The particular birds and animals exhibited are the willow-grouse,
the weasel, and a large species of hare.

All of these, in their summer garb, have a brown color, which harmonizes
marvellously with their surroundings, while in winter they are pure
white, to match the snow that for some months covers the ground in
their habitat.

The other cases of this interesting exhibit show a large variety of birds
and animals under conditions of somewhat abnormal variation, in the one case
of albinism and the other of melanism.

These cases are, for the casual visitor, perhaps the most striking of all, although,
of course, they teach no such comprehensive lessons as the other exhibits just
referred to.

The second of the novel exhibits of the museum to which I wish to refer is to be found in a series
of alcoves close beside the central cases in the main hallway.

Each of these alcoves is devoted to a class of animals--one to mammals,
one to birds, one to fishes, and so on.

In each case very beautiful sets of specimens have been prepared, illustrating
the anatomy and physiology of the group of animals in question. Here one
may see, for example, in the alcove devoted to birds, specimens showing
not only details of the skeleton and muscular system, but the more
striking examples of variation of form of such members as the bill,
legs, wings, and tails.

Here are preparations also illustrating, very strikingly, the vocal apparatus of birds. Here, again, are
finely prepared wings, in which the various sets of feathers have been outlined
with different-colored pigments, so that the student can name them at
a glance.

In fact, every essential feature of the anatomy of the bird may be studied here as in no other collection that I
know of. And the same is true of each of the other grand divisions
of the animal kingdom. This exhibit alone gives an opportunity for
the student of natural history that is invaluable. It is quite clear
to any one who has seen it that every natural history museum must prepare a
similar educational exhibit before it can claim to do full justice
to its patrons.

A third feature that cannot be overlooked is shown in the numerous
cases of stuffed birds, in which the specimens are exhibited, not
merely by themselves on conventional perches, but amid natural surroundings,
usually associated with their nests and eggs or young.

These exhibits have high artistic value in addition to their striking
scientific worth. They teach ornithology as it should be taught, giving
such clews to the recognition of birds in the fields as are not at
all to be found in ordinary collections of stuffed specimens. This
feature of the museum has, to be sure, been imitated in the American
Museum of Natural History in New York, but the South Kensington Museum
was the first in the field and is still the leader. If, for the reason here stated, it is a
"mistake" to supply of in the foregoing instances, it does not follow that they are not elliptical.
On the contrary, if they are analogous to, "Ask him for a guinea;" or, "Ask him to go;" it
is manifest that the construction must be this: "Ask him [for] his opinion;" or, "Ask him [to
tell] his opinion." So that the question resolves itself into this: What is the best way of
supplying the ellipsis, when two objectives thus occur after ask?--G. BROWN.

[355] These examples Murray borrowed from Webster, who published them, with references, under
his 34th Rule. With too little faith in the corrective power of grammar, the Doctor remarks
upon the constructions as follows: "This idiom is outrageously anomalous, but perhaps incorrigible."--
Webster's Philos. Gram., p. 180; Imp. G., 128.

[356] This seems to be a reasonable principle of syntax, and yet I find it contradicted, or
a principle opposite to it set up, by some modern teachers of note, who venture to justify
all those abnormal phrases which I here condemn as errors. Thus Fowler: "Note 5. When a Verb
with its Accusative case, is equivalent to a single verb, it may take this accusative after
it in the passive voice; as, 'This has been put an end to.'"--Fowler's English Language, 8vo,
§552. Now what is this, but an effort to teach bad English by rule?--and by such a rule, too,
as is vastly more general than even the great class of terms which it was designed to include?
And yet this rule, broad as it is, does not apply at all to the example given! For "put an
end," without the important word "to," is not equivalent to stop or terminate. Nor is the example
right. One ought rather to say, "This has been ended;" or, "This has been stopped." See the
marginal Note to Obs. 5th, above.

[357] Some, however, have conceived the putting of the same case after the verb as before it,
to be government; as, "Neuter verbs occasionally govern either the nominative or [the] objective
case, after them."--Alexander's Gram., p. 54. "The verb to be, always governs a Nominative,
unless it be of the Infinitive Mood."--Buchanan's Gram., p. 94. This latter assertion is, in
fact, monstrously untrue, and also solecistical.

[358] Not unfrequently the conjunction as intervenes between these "same cases," as it may
also between words in apposition; as, "He then is as the head, and we as the members; he the
vine, and we the branches."--Barclay's Works, Vol. ii, p. 189.

[359] "'Whose house is that?' This sentence, before it is parsed, should be transposed; thus,
'Whose is that house?' The same observation applies to every sentence of a similar construction."--Chandler's
old Gram., p. 93. As I have described the Ground that returns the best Barley, I now come to treat of making
it into Malt; to do which, the Barley is put into a leaden or tyled Cistern that holds five, ten
or more Quarters, that is covered with water four or six Inches above
the Barley to allow for its Swell; here it lyes five or six Tides
as the Malster calls it, reckoning twelve Hours to the Tide, according
as the Barley is in body or in dryness; for that which comes off Clays,
or has been wash'd and damag'd by Rains, requires less time than the
dryer Grain that was inned well and grew on Gravels or Chalks; the
smooth plump Corn imbibing the water more kindly, when the lean and
steely Barley will not so naturally; but to know when it is enough,
is to take a Corn end-ways between the Fingers and gently crush it,
and if it is in all parts mellow, and the husk opens or starts a little
from the body of the Corn, then it is enough: The nicety of this is
a material Point; for if it is infus'd too much, the sweetness of
the Malt will be greatly taken off, and yield the less Spirit, and
so will cause deadness and sourness in Ale or Beer in a short time,
for the goodness of the Malt contributes much to the preservation
of all Ales and Beers.

Then the water must be drain'd from it very well, and it will come
equal and better on the floor, which may be done in twelve or sixteen
Hours in temperate weather, but in cold, near thirty.

From the Cistern it is put into a square Hutch or Couch, where it
must lye thirty Hours for the Officer to take his Gage, who allows
four Bushels in the Score for the Swell in this or the Cistern, then
it must be work'd Night and Day in one or two Heaps as the weather
is cold or hot, and turn'd every four, six or eight Hours, the outward
part inwards and the bottom upwards, always keeping a clear floor
that the Corn that lies next to it be not chill'd; and as soon as
it begins to come or spire, then turn it every three, four or five
Hours, as was done before according to the temper of the Air, which
greatly governs this management, and as it comes or works more, so
must the Heap be spreaded and thinned larger to cool it.

Thus it may lye and be work'd on the floor in several parallels, two or three Foot thick, ten or more
Foot broad, and fourteen or more in length to Chip and Spire; but
not too much nor too soft; and when it is come enough, it is to be
turned twelve or sixteen times in twenty-four Hours, if the Season is
warm, as in March, April or May; and when it is fixed and the Root
begins to be dead, then it must be thickned again and carefully kept
often turned and work'd, that the growing of the Root may not revive,
and this is better done with the Shoes off than on; and here the Workman's
Art and Diligence in particular is tryed in keeping the floor clear
and turning the Malt often, that it neither moulds nor Aker-spires,
that is, that the Blade does not grow out at the opposite end of the
Root; for if it does, the flower and strength of the Malt is gone,
and nothing left behind but the Aker-spire, Husk and Tail: Now when
it is at this degree and fit for the Kiln, it is often practised to
put it into a Heap and let it lye twelve Hours before it is turned,
to heat and mellow, which will much improve the Malt if it is done
with moderation, and after that time it must be turned every six Hours
during twenty four; but if it is overheated, it will become like Grease
and be spoiled, or at least cause the Drink to be unwholsome; when
this Operation is over, it then must be put on the Kiln to dry four,
six or twelve Hours, according to the nature of the Malt, for the
pale sort requires more leisure and less fire than the amber or brown
sorts: Three Inches thick was formerly thought a sufficient depth
for the Malt to lye on the Hair-cloth, but now six is often allowed
it to a fault; fourteen or sixteen Foot square will dry about two
Quarters if the Malt lyes four Inches thick, and here it should be
turned every two, three or four Hours keeping the Hair-cloth clear:
The time of preparing it from the Cistern to the Kiln is uncertain;
according to the Season of the Year; in moderate weather three Weeks
is often sufficient.

If the Exciseman takes his Gage on the floor he allows ten in the
Score, but he sometimes Gages in Cistern, Couch, Floor and Kiln, and
where he can make most, there he fixes his Charge: When the Malt is
dryed, it must not cool on the Kiln, but be directly thrown off, not
into a Heap, but spreaded wide in an airy place, till it is thoroughly
cool, then put it into a Heap or otherwise dispose of it. 'We sometimes find a participle that takes the same case after as
before it, converted into a verbal noun, and the latter word retained unchanged in connexion
with it; as, I have some recollection of his father's being a judge.' GOOLD BROWN."--Sanborn's
Analytical Gram., p. 189. Each is confident of the strength of his own position; each is eager
for a close hug of dialectics. Far from avoiding the point, they drive directly towards it,
clearing their essential propositions from mutual misconception by the sharpest analysis and
exactest statement. To get their minds near each other, to think close to the subject, to feel
the griding contact of pure intellect with pure intellect, and, as spiritual beings, to conduct
the war of reason with spiritual weapons,--this is their ambition. See Institutes of
English Gram., p. 162. In an other late grammar,--a shameful work, because it is in great measure
a tissue of petty larcenies from my Institutes, with alterations for the worse,--I find the
following absurd "Note," or Rule: "An infinitive or participle is often followed by a substantive
explanatory of an indefinite person or thing. The substantive is then in the objective case,
and may be called the objective after the infinitive, or participle; [as,] It is an honor to
be the author of such a work. But these dry, though important studies, did not exclusively occupy his mind;
he carried on, at the same time, a great variety of other pursuits. Like all men of an active and
intellectual turn of mind, his recreation was found not in repose, but in change of occupation. Books of
voyages and travels were collected, and read with avidity; he devoured rather than read the classical
remains of Greece and Rome. "That antiquity," said he, "enchants me, and
I am always ready to say with Pliny--You are going to Athens; show
respect to the gods."

It was under this feeling of devout gratitude to the master minds
of the ancient world, that he made his first essay in literature, which
came out in a small work in the form of letters, the object of which
was to show, that the idolatry of most Pagans did of itself not merit
eternal damnation.

Probably there are few good Christians, from Fénélon and Tillotson
downwards, who will be of an opposite opinion. Even in that juvenile
production are to be found traces of the sound judgment, correct
taste, and general thought which characterised his later works. But he was
soon thrown into the proper labours of his profession. On the 24th
February 1714, he was admitted into the parliament of Bourdeaux as
a councillor; and his paternal uncle, who held the president's chair,
having died two years after, young Montesquieu was, on the 13th July
1716, appointed to that important office, though only twenty-seven
years of age.

Probably his being thrown thus early in life into the discharge of onerous and important duties,
had an important effect in producing that firmness and maturity of judgment by which his mind
was subsequently distinguished.

Some years afterwards, he gave a convincing proof of his fitness
for the situation, in the vigour with which he remonstrated against
the imposition of a fresh tax on wine, which had the effect of procuring
its removal at the time, though the necessities of government led
to its being reimposed some years after. "In this phrase,
'Who do you speak to?' there is a deviation from regular construction; but the practice of
thus using who, in certain familiar phrases, seems to be established by the best authors."--Webster's
Rudiments of E. Gram., p. 72. Almost any other solecism may be quite as well justified as this.
The present work shows, in fact, a great mass of authorities for many of the incongruities
which it ventures to rebuke.

[365] Grammarians differ much as to the proper mode of parsing such nouns. Wells says, "This
is the case independent by ellipsis."--School Gram., p. 123. But the idea of such a case is
a flat absurdity. Ellipsis occurs only where something, not uttered, is implied; and where
a preposition is thus wanting, the noun is, of course, its object; and therefore not independent. Would to
God I could make all mankind realize this awful, inconceivable privilege of life, that, Jupiter-like, they
would turn and face the light.

O child of Adam!

PART II

Here beginneth Chapter 3 of the Second Part of the Book which is called
"The Tablets of Aeth," wherein the Third, and last, Trinity of the
Planetary Rulers is faithfully transcribed.

"Thou hast entered the immeasurable regions. I am the Dweller of
the Threshold. What wouldst thou with me? * * * Dost thou fear me? Am
I not thy beloved?

TABLET THE SEVENTH

Saturn

SYMBOL

A human figure with a scepter of power, a being of light crowned with
flames.

VII

REFLECTION

TABLET THE SEVENTH

In the external we remember Saturn as an old man, and as a skeleton with a scythe--as Time, in fact. But
see, O immortal soul, the real Saturn, as the Angel of Life, having
from time gathered the experiences which crown him with light, holding
the rod of power; the Christ born in the manger of Capricorn, the
Goat--life born of death; the conqueror of evil.

He throws off the mask of age, and divine youth beams on us.

He doffs the mantle of rags, and royal splendors clothe him. He lifts the hood,
and behold the crown. He raises the crutch, and lo! the rod of power.
He drops the scythe of death for the jewel of eternal life.

"Om Mani Padme Um."

(Oh the jewel in the lotus.)

O child of Adam!

Meditate on the transmutations of life. Behold the earthly miracle
of the caterpillar and the butterfly, of the toiling mortal and the
transcendent God!

TABLET THE EIGHTH

Uranus

SYMBOL

A human eye, from which darts lightning upon an ocean of matter.

VIII

REFLECTION

TABLET THE EIGHTH

The state of soul and spirit--penetration; the wonderful power of soul-perception,
which sheds its light on all visible things, receiving their images
and interpreting them into the spirit, the all-seer--what does it
not convey?

The perception
that can see deep into your soul and see, as it were, the yet unborn thought;
that can distinguish the motive of action; that judges the realities of
your soul. Such is the Astral Uranian. For with us all, are three
planes of mind: The drift plane, the intellectual, and the spiritual,
or internal plane; and thought- reading can be on one or all of these
different states. But only the Uranian seer can read the inmost mind,
and so really know the possibilities of your spirit.

Imagine an image
of soft wax, covered with a sensitive skin. All impressions on the
skin shape the plastic wax, but go no deeper-- do not reach the soul.
You can separate these impressions from your real self, when calm
and alone, and look upon emotion as a surface play. But the tragedies
of life strike deep. They affect the soul, and go to the center of
being. "Verbum sap."

O child of Adam! Watch the tempest of life closely.
The Ego may sit calm amidst the storm, but, if that be stirred--BEWARE!
The God acts; the soul alone watches.

TABLET THE NINTH

Neptune

A
Winged Globe.

IX

REFLECTION

TABLET THE NINTH

An unknown quantity,
a hope of progression, ideal love, and all true mental and spiritual
ideals; aspiration to become that which we feel to be noble and true;
the symbol of the monad, the soul which, receiving its life from the
Sun--the Ego--is constantly revealing new forces and potencies of
that God-life. Each soul's Ego is its maker and God. The Ego is like
the Deific potency of the universe, unlimited in potential power,
but limited by its monad as to what will be evolved from its awful
depth of being. Deity progresses through its expressions of the cosmos.
The Ego, your God, finds progressive expression through you, through
your soul. That soul is not immortal that becomes separated from its
Ego--its God. So, soul, spread your spiritual wings and soar upward.

O
child of Adam! Know these three things: Eternity is the creator of
the universal life; universal life creates the world, and the world
is the creator of time. And of these, the Universe is Life, and the
World is Mind, and Time is the Soul. "The old German,
and even the modern German, are much liker to the Visigothic than they are to the dialect of
the Edda."--Ib., i, 330. "Proximus finem, nighest the end."--Ib., ii, 150. "Let us now come
nearer to our own language."--Dr. Blair's Rhet., p. 85. "This looks very like a paradox."--BEATTIE:
Murray's Gram., Vol. i, p. 113. "He was near [to] falling."--Ib., p. 116. Murray, who puts
near into his list of prepositions, gives this example to show how "prepositions become adverbs!"
"There was none ever before like unto it."--Stone, on Masonry, p. 5.

[368] Wright's notion of this construction is positively absurd and self-contradictory. In
the sentence, "My cane is worth a shilling," he takes the word worth to be a noun "in apposition
to the word shilling." And to prove it so, he puts the sentence successively into these four
forms: "My cane is worth or value for a shilling;"--"The worth or value of my cane is a shilling;"--"My
cane is a shilling's worth;"--"My cane is the worth of a shilling."--Philosophical Gram., p.
150. I had a sinking presentiment that my dreadful flare-up with Dick had been
in vain, and that after all she would inveigle him into proposing
to her this very night.

Since I refused to tell him that her damask cheek was being preyed upon by love of him, she would probably
intimate as much herself, and bury her head between her hands, looking incredibly sad and lovable. Sir
Lionel wouldn't be the man to fight such tactics as those! I knew
he didn't, wouldn't, and couldn't love her one little bit, but he
would be sorry for her, and sacrifice himself rather than she should
suffer for his sake, when he might make her happy.

Emily chatted to me pleasantly about the church, and the vicar at Graylees,
and family tombs, and such cheerful things, to which I said "Yes"
and "No" whenever she stopped; but a cold perspiration was coming
out on my forehead.

I was just as sure as that I was alive, that Mrs. Senter didn't mean to leave the library until
Sir Lionel had made her a present of himself, his books, and his
castle.

Probably my sub-conscious self or astral body was there, hearing every word they said. Anyhow,
I knew. And I could do nothing. A thumb-screw or a rack would have
been a pleasant relief.

Suddenly we heard the sound of a carriage driving quickly up to the
house.

"Who can that be?" wondered Mrs. Norton. "It's after half-past nine."

"Very likely it's Mr. Burden," said I; the first moderately intelligent
remark I'd made since we were left together.

She agreed with me
that this was probable; but when fifteen, twenty, forty minutes passed
by the clock, and Dick did not appear, she changed her mind. It must
have been someone to see Sir Lionel, she thought, on business that
wouldn't wait.

[370] Cowper here purposely makes Mrs. Gilpin use bad English; but this is no reason why a
school-boy may not be taught to correct it. Dr. Priestley supposed that the word we, in the
example, "To poor we, thine enmity," &c., was also used by Shakespeare, "in a droll humorous
way."--Gram., p. 103. He surely did not know the connexion of the text. It is in "Volumnia's
pathetic speech" to her victorious son. The Order of St. Augustine has many missions in the islands of Pintados and
has established and occupied monasteries and various visitas. [366]
In the island of Luzon, they have those of the province of Ylocos, some
in Pangasinan, and all those of La Pampanga--a large number of monasteries;
while in the province of Manila and its vicinity they have others, which are
flourishing.

The Order of St. Dominic has the missions of the province of Cagayan,
and others in the province of Pangasinan, where are many monasteries
and visitas.
See Enfield's Speaker, p.