On the following day they all rode over to Guestwick together,--the all consisting of the two
girls, with Bernard and Crosbie. Their object was to pay two visits,--one to their very noble
and highly exalted ally, the Lady Julia De Guest; and the other to their humbler and better
known friend, Mrs Eames. As Guestwick Manor lay on their road into the town, they performed
the grander ceremony the first. The present Earl De Guest, brother of that Lady Fanny who ran
away with Major Dale, was an unmarried nobleman, who devoted himself chiefly to the breeding
of cattle. And as he bred very good cattle, taking infinite satisfaction in the employment,
devoting all his energies thereto, and abstaining from all prominently evil courses, it should
be acknowledged that he was not a bad member of society. He was a thorough-going old Tory,
whose proxy was always in the hand of the leader of his party; and who seldom himself went
near the metropolis, unless called thither by some occasion of cattle-showing. He was a short,
stumpy man, with red cheeks and a round face; who was usually to be seen till dinner-time dressed
in a very old shooting coat, with breeches, gaiters, and very thick shoes. He lived generally
out of doors, and was almost as great in the preserving of game as in the breeding of oxen.
He knew every acre of his own estate, and every tree upon it, as thoroughly as a lady knows
the ornaments in her drawing-room. There was no gap in a fence of which he did not remember
the exact bearings, no path hither or thither as to which he could not tell the why and the
wherefore. He had been in his earlier years a poor man as regarded his income,--very poor,
seeing that he was an earl. But he was not at present by any means an impoverished man, having
been taught a lesson by the miseries of his father and grandfather, and having learned to live
within his means. Now, as he was going down the vale of years, men said that he was becoming
rich, and that he had ready money to spend,--a position in which no Lord De Guest had found
himself for many generations back. His father and grandfather had been known as spendthrifts;
and now men said that this earl was a miser.

There was not much of nobility in his appearance; but they greatly mistook Lord De Guest who
conceived that on that account his pride of place was not dear to his soul. His peerage dated
back to the time of King John, and there were but three lords in England whose patents had
been conferred before his own. He knew what privileges were due to him on behalf of his blood,
and was not disposed to abate one jot of them. He was not loud in demanding them. As he went
through the world he sent no trumpeters to the right or left, proclaiming that the Earl De
Guest was coming. When he spread his board for his friends, which he did but on rare occasions,
he entertained them simply with a mild, tedious, old-fashioned courtesy. We may say that, if
properly treated, the earl never walked over anybody. But he could, if ill-treated, be grandly
indignant; and if attacked, could hold his own against all the world. He knew himself to be
every inch an earl, pottering about after his oxen with his muddy gaiters and red cheeks, as
much as though he were glittering with stars in courtly royal ceremonies among his peers at
Westminster,--ay, more an earl than any of those who use their nobility for pageant purposes.
Woe be to him who should mistake that old coat for a badge of rural degradation! Now and again
some unlucky wight did make such a mistake, and had to do his penance very uncomfortably.

With the earl lived a maiden sister, the Lady Julia. Bernard Dale's father had, in early life,
run away with one sister, but no suitor had been fortunate enough to induce the Lady Julia
to run with him. Therefore she still lived, in maiden blessedness, as mistress of Guestwick
Manor; and as such had no mean opinion of the high position which destiny had called upon her
to fill. She was a tedious, dull, virtuous old woman, who gave herself infinite credit for
having remained all her days in the home of her youth, probably forgetting, in her present
advanced years, that her temptations to leave it had not been strong or numerous. She generally
spoke of her sister Fanny with some little contempt, as though that poor lady had degraded
herself in marrying a younger brother. She was as proud of her own position as was the earl
her brother, but her pride was maintained with more of outward show and less of inward nobility.
It was hardly enough for her that the world should know that she was a De Guest, and therefore
she had assumed little pompous ways and certain airs of condescension which did not make her
popular with her neighbours.

The intercourse between Guestwick Manor and Allington was not very frequent or very cordial.
Soon after the running away of the Lady Fanny, the two families had agreed to acknowledge their
connection with each other, and to let it be known by the world that they were on friendly
terms. Either that course was necessary to them, or the other course, of letting it be known
that they were enemies. Friendship was the less troublesome, and therefore the two families
called on each other from time to time, and gave each other dinners about once a year. The
earl regarded the squire as a man who had deserted his politics, and had thereby forfeited
the respect due to him as an hereditary land magnate; and the squire was wont to belittle the
earl as one who understood nothing of the outer world. At Guestwick Manor Bernard was to some
extent a favourite. He was actually a relative, having in his veins blood of the De Guests,
and was not the less a favourite because he was the heir to Allington, and because the blood
of the Dales was older even than that of the noble family to which he was allied. When Bernard
should come to be the squire, then indeed there might be cordial relations between Guestwick
Manor and Allington; unless, indeed, the earl's heir and the squire's heir should have some
fresh cause of ill-will between themselves.

They found Lady Julia sitting in her drawing-room alone, and introduced to her Mr Crosbie in
due form. The fact of Lily's engagement was of course known at the manor, and it was quite
understood that her intended husband was now brought over that he might be looked at and approved.
Lady Julia made a very elaborate curtsey, and expressed a hope that her young friend might
be made happy in that sphere of life to which it had pleased God to call her.

"I hope I shall, Lady Julia," said Lily, with a little laugh; "at any rate I mean to try."

"We all try, my dear, but many of us fail to try with sufficient energy of purpose. It is only
by doing our duty that we can hope to be happy, whether in single life or in married."

"Miss Dale means to be a dragon of perfection in the performance of hers," said Crosbie.

"A dragon!" said Lady Julia. "No; I hope Miss Lily Dale will never become a dragon." And then
she turned to her nephew. It may be as well to say at once that she never forgave Mr Crosbie
the freedom of the expression which he had used. He had been in the drawing-room of Guestwick
Manor for two minutes only, and it did not become him to talk about dragons. "Bernard," she
said, "I heard from your mother yesterday. I am afraid she does not seem to be very strong."
And then there was a little conversation, not very interesting in its nature, between the aunt
and the nephew as to the general health of Lady Fanny.

"I didn't know my aunt was so unwell," said Bell.

"She isn't ill," said Bernard. "She never is ill; but then she is never well."

"Your aunt," said Lady Julia, seeming to put a touch of sarcasm into the tone of her voice
as she repeated the word,--"your aunt has never enjoyed good health since she left this house;
but that is a long time ago."

"A very long time," said Crosbie, who was not accustomed to be left in his chair silent. "You,
Dale, at any rate, can hardly remember it."

"But I can remember it," said Lady Julia, gathering herself up. "I can remember when my sister
Fanny was recognised as the beauty of the country. It is a dangerous gift, that of beauty."

"Very dangerous," said Crosbie. Then Lily laughed again, and Lady Julia became more angry than
ever. Now, he said, if anybody wanted to know anything about him, he was ready to answer the King
himself.

Don Quixote was curious to know whether there was to be a second part
to the book; and Samson replied that the author was diligently looking
for one, but had as yet found none; so it remained only a possibility.

Yet, inspired by the profits he had made out of the first book, he
was anxious to find a second part, he said.

"The author looks for money and profit, does he?" asked Sancho.

Scarcely had Sancho spoken these words, when Rocinante commenced to neigh; and how could this be
interpreted to be anything else than a good omen? In an instant Don Quixote had resolved to
sally forth again in a few days. The bachelor warned him this time to expose himself to no such tremendous
risks as on his previous sallies, and begged him to remember always, his life was no longer
his own, but was dedicated to those in need and in despair.

"There is what I abominate, Señor Samson," Sancho sustained him.

And here it was that Sancho felt it a solemn duty to himself and his wife and offspring to come
to a definite understanding with his master regarding his position
in battle. He wanted it stipulated that his master was to do all the
fighting. He would willingly look after his master's and Rocinante's
comfort, and keep them clean, but when it came to drawing sword, he
would leave that honor to Don Quixote, he declared. He would do his
duty so well that it would be worth a kingdom as well as an island,
both of which he would gladly accept.

Lady Julia drew herself up, and declined the escort which Mr Crosbie had seemed to offer. It
grieved her to find that Lily Dale's future husband was an intimate friend of her friend's,
and it especially grieved her to find that he was now going to that friend's house. It was
a grief to her, and she showed that it was. It also grieved Crosbie to find that Lady Julia
was to be a fellow guest with himself at Courcy Castle; but he did not show it. He expressed
nothing but smiles and civil self-congratulation on the matter, pretending that he would have
much delight in again meeting Lady Julia; but, in truth, he would have given much could he
have invented any manoeuvre by which her ladyship might have been kept at home.

"What a horrid old woman she is," said Lily, as they rode back down the avenue. "I beg your
pardon, Bernard; for, of course, she is your aunt."

"Yes; she is my aunt; and though I am not very fond of her, I deny that she is a horrid old
woman. She never murdered anybody, or robbed anybody, or stole away any other woman's lover."

"I should think not," said Lily.

"She says her prayers earnestly, I have no doubt," continued Bernard, "and gives away money
to the poor, and would sacrifice to-morrow any desire of her own to her brother's wish. I acknowledge
that she is ugly, and pompous, and that, being a woman, she ought not to have such a long black
beard on her upper lip."

"I don't care a bit about her beard," said Lily. "But why did she tell me to do my duty? I
didn't go there to have a sermon preached to me."

"And why did she talk about beauty being dangerous?" said Bell. "Of course, we all knew what
she meant."

"I didn't know at all what she meant," said Lily, "and I don't know now."

"I think she's a charming woman, and I shall be especially civil to her at Lady de Courcy's,"
said Crosbie.

And in this way, saying hard things of the poor old spinster whom they had left, they made
their way into Guestwick, and again dismounted at Mrs Eames's door.

CHAPTER XIII

A Visit to Guestwick

As the party from Allington rode up the narrow High Street of Guestwick, and across the market
square towards the small, respectable, but very dull row of new houses in which Mrs Eames lived,
the people of Guestwick were all aware that Miss Lily Dale was escorted by her future husband.
The opinion that she had been a very fortunate girl was certainly general among the Guestwickians,
though it was not always expressed in open or generous terms. "It was a great match for her,"
some said, but shook their heads at the same time, hinting that Mr Crosbie's life in London
was not all that it should be, and suggesting that she might have been more safe had she been
content to bestow herself upon some country neighbour of less dangerous pretensions. Others
declared that it was no such great match after all. They knew his income to a penny, and believed
that the young people would find it very difficult to keep a house in London unless the old
squire intended to assist them. But, nevertheless, Lily was envied as she rode through the
town with her handsome lover by her side.

And she was very happy. I will not deny that she had some feeling of triumphant satisfaction
in the knowledge that she was envied. Such a feeling on her part was natural, and is natural
to all men and women who are conscious that they have done well in the adjustment of their
own affairs. As she herself had said, he was her bird, the spoil of her own gun, the product
of such capacity as she had in her, on which she was to live, and, if possible, to thrive during
the remainder of her life. Lily fully recognised the importance of the thing she was doing,
and, in soberest guise, had thought much of this matter of marriage. But the more she thought
of it the more satisfied she was that she was doing well. And yet she knew that there was a
risk. He who was now everything to her might die; nay, it was possible that he might be other
than she thought him to be; that he might neglect her, desert her, or misuse her. But she had
resolved to trust in everything, and, having so trusted, she would not provide for herself
any possibility of retreat. Her ship should go out into the middle ocean, beyond all ken of
the secure port from which it had sailed; her army should fight its battle with no hope of
other safety than that which victory gives. All the world might know that she loved him if
all the world chose to inquire about the matter. She triumphed in her lover, and did not deny
even to herself that she was triumphant.

Mrs Eames was delighted to see them. It was so good in Mr Crosbie to come over and call upon
such a poor, forlorn woman as her, and so good in Captain Dale; so good also in the dear girls,
who, at the present moment, had so much to make them happy at home at Allington! Little things,
accounted as bare civilities by others, were esteemed as great favours by Mrs Eames.

"And dear Mrs Dale? I hope she was not fatigued when we kept her up the other night so unconscionably
late?" Bell and Lily both assured her that their mother was none the worse for what she had
gone through; and then Mrs Eames got up and left the room, with the declared purpose of looking
for John and Mary, but bent, in truth, on the production of some cake and sweet wine which
she kept under lock and key in the little parlour.

"Don't let's stay here very long," whispered Crosbie.

"No, not very long," said Lily. "But when you come to see my friends you mustn't be in a hurry,
Mr Crosbie."

"He had his turn with Lady Julia," said Bell, "and we must have ours now."

"At any rate, Mrs Eames won't tell us to do our duty and to beware of being too beautiful,"
said Lily.

Mary and John came into the room before their mother returned; then came Mrs Eames, and a few
minutes afterwards the cake and wine arrived. It certainly was rather dull, as none of the
party seemed to be at their ease. The grandeur of Mr Crosbie was too great for Mrs Eames and
her daughter, and John was almost silenced by the misery of his position. He had not yet answered
Miss Roper's letter, nor had he even made up his mind whether he would answer it or no. And
then the sight of Lily's happiness did not fill him with all that friendly joy which he should
perhaps have felt as the friend of her childhood. To tell the truth, he hated Crosbie, and
so he had told himself; and had so told his sister also very frequently since the day of the party.

"I tell you what it is, Molly," he had said, "if there was any way of doing it, I'd fight that
man."

"What; and make Lily wretched?"

"She'll never be happy with him. I'm sure she won't. I don't want to do her any harm, but yet
I'd like to fight that man,--if I only knew how to manage it."

And then he bethought himself that if they could both be slaughtered in such an encounter it
would be the only fitting termination to the present state of things. In that way, too, there
would be an escape from Amelia, and, at the present moment, he saw none other.

When he entered the room he shook hands with all the party from Allington, but, as he told
his sister afterwards, his flesh crept when he touched Crosbie. Crosbie, as he contemplated
the Eames family sitting stiff and ill at ease in their own drawing-room chairs, made up his
mind that it would be well that his wife should see as little of John Eames as might be when
she came to London;--not that he was in any way jealous of her lover. He had learned everything
from Lily,--all, at least, that Lily knew,--and regarded the matter rather as a good joke.
"Don't see him too often," he had said to her, "for fear he should make an ass of himself."
Lily had told him everything,--all that she could tell; but yet he did not in the least comprehend
that Lily had, in truth, a warm affection for the young man whom he despised.

"Thank you, no," said Crosbie. "I never do take wine in the middle of the day."

"But a bit of cake?" And Mrs Eames by her look implored him to do her so much honour. She implored
Captain Dale, also, but they were both inexorable. I do not know that the two girls were at
all more inclined to eat and drink than the two men; but they understood that Mrs Eames would
be broken-hearted if no one partook of her delicacies. The little sacrifices of society are
all made by women, as are also the great sacrifices of life. A man who is good for anything
is always ready for his duty, and so is a good woman always ready for a sacrifice.

"We really must go now," said Bell, "because of the horses." And under this excuse they got away.

"You will come over before you go back to London, John?" said Lily, as he came out with the
intention of helping her mount, from which purpose, however, he was forced to recede by the
iron will of Mr Crosbie.

"Yes, I'll come over again--before I go. Good-bye."

"Good-bye, John," said Bell. "Good-bye, Eames," said Captain Dale. Crosbie, as he seated himself
in the saddle, made the very slightest sign of recognition, to which his rival would not condescend
to pay any attention. "I'll manage to have a fight with him in some way," said Eames to himself
as he walked back through the passage of his mother's house. And Crosbie, as he settled his
feet in the stirrups, felt that he disliked the young man more and more. It would be monstrous
to suppose that there could be aught of jealousy in the feeling; and yet he did dislike him
very strongly, and felt almost angry with Lily for asking him to come again to Allington. "I
must put an end to all that," he said to himself as he rode silently out of town.

"You must not snub my friends, sir," said Lily, smiling as she spoke, but yet with something
of earnestness in her voice. They were out of the town by this time, and Crosbie had hardly
uttered a word since they had left Mrs Eames's door. They were now on the high road, and Bell
and Bernard Dale were somewhat in advance of them.

"I never snub anybody," said Crosbie, petulantly; "that is unless they have absolutely deserved
snubbing."

"And have I deserved it? Because I seem to have got it," said Lily.

"Nonsense, Lily. I never snubbed you yet, and I don't think it likely that I shall begin. But
you ought not to accuse me of not being civil to your friends. In the first place I am as civil
to them as my nature will allow me to be. And, in the second place--"

"Well; in the second place--?"

"I am not quite sure that you are very wise to encourage that young man's friendship just at
present."

"That means, I suppose, that I am very wrong to do so?"

"No, dearest, it does not mean that. If I meant so I would tell you so honestly. I mean just
what I say. There can, I suppose, be no doubt that he has filled himself with some kind of
romantic attachment for you,--a foolish kind of love which I don't suppose he ever expected
to gratify, but the idea of which lends a sort of grace to his life. When he meets some young
woman fit to be his wife he will forget all about it, but till then he will go about fancying
himself a despairing lover. And then such a young man as John Eames is very apt to talk of
his fancies."

"I don't believe for a moment that he would mention my name to any one."

"But, Lily, perhaps I may know more of young men than you do."

"Yes, of course you do."

"And I can assure you that they are generally too well inclined to make free with the names
of girls whom they think that they like. You must not be surprised if I am unwilling that any
man should make free with your name."

After this Lily was silent for a minute or two. She felt that an injustice was being done to
her and she was not inclined to put up with it, but she could not quite see where the injustice
lay. A great deal was owing from her to Crosbie. In very much she was bound to yield to him,
and she was anxious to do on his behalf even more than her duty. But yet she had a strong conviction
that it would not be well that she should give way to him in everything. She wished to think
as he thought as far as possible, but she could not say that she agreed with him when she knew
that she differed from him. John Eames was an old friend whom she could not abandon, and so
much at the present time she felt herself obliged to say.

"But, Adolphus--"

"Well, dearest?"

"You would not wish me to be unkind to so very old a friend as John Eames? I have known him
all my life, and we have all of us had a very great regard for the whole family. His father
was my uncle's most particular friend."

"I think, Lily, you must understand what I mean. I don't want you to quarrel with any of them,
or to be what you call unkind. But you need not give special and pressing invitations to this
young man to come and see you before he goes back to London, and then to come and see you directly
you get to London. You tell me that he had some kind of romantic idea of being in love with
you;--of being in despair because you are not in love with him. It's all great nonsense, no
doubt, but it seems to me that under such circumstances you'd better--just leave him alone."

Again Lily was silent. These were her three last days, in which it was her intention to be
especially happy, but above all things to make him especially happy. On no account would she
say to him sharp words, or encourage in her own heart a feeling of animosity against him, and
yet she believed him to be wrong; and so believing could hardly bring herself to bear the injury.
Such was her nature, as a Dale. And let it be remembered that very many who can devote themselves
for great sacrifices, cannot bring themselves to the endurance of little injuries. Lily could
have given up any gratification for her lover, but she could not allow herself to have been
in the wrong, believing herself to have been in the right.

"I have asked him now, and he must come," she said.

"But do not press him to come any more."

"Certainly not, after what you have said, Adolphus. If he comes over to Allington, he will
see me in mamma's house, to which he has always been made welcome by her. Of course I understand
perfectly--"

"You understand what, Lily?"

But she had stopped herself, fearing that she might say that which would be offensive to him
if she continued.

"What is it you understand, Lily?"

"Do not press me to go on, Adolphus. As far as I can, I will do all that you want me to do."

"You meant to say that when you find yourself an inmate of my house, as a matter of course
you could not ask your own friends to come and see you. Was that gracious?"

"Whatever I may have meant to say, I did not say that. Nor in truth did I mean it. Pray don't
go on about it now. These are to be our last days, you know, and we shouldn't waste them by
talking of things that are unpleasant. Whereupon the barber and the curate left, both of them in
despair of their friend's ever being cured.

The curate remarked that it would not surprise him to learn before many moons that Don Quixote
and Sancho had set off again on another sally. They were curious to know what the master and
the servant might be discussing at that very moment. However, the curate was of the firm belief
that they could rely upon the two women to keep their ears to the door. They would learn from them
what had been the topic, and what had been said. Crosbie would have had her acknowledge herself wrong, and would have delighted in the
privilege of forgiving her. But Lily Dale was one who did not greatly relish forgiveness, or
any necessity of being forgiven. So they rode on, if not in silence, without much joy in their
conversation. It was now late on the Monday afternoon, and Crosbie was to go early on the Wednesday
morning. What if these three last days should come to be marred with such terrible drawbacks
as these!

Bernard Dale had not spoken a word to his cousin of his suit, since they had been interrupted
by Crosbie and Lily as they were lying on the bank by the ha-ha. He had danced with her again
and again at Mrs Dale's party, and had seemed to revert to his old modes of conversation without
difficulty. Bell, therefore, had believed the matter to be over, and was thankful to her cousin,
declaring within her own bosom that the whole matter should be treated by her as though it
had never happened. To no one,--not even to her mother, would she tell it. To such reticence
she bound herself for his sake, feeling that he would be best pleased that it should be so.
But now as they rode on together, far in advance of the other couple, he again returned to
the subject.

"Bell," said he, "am I to have any hope?"

"Any hope as to what, Bernard?"

"I hardly know whether a man is bound to take a single answer on such a subject. But this I
know, that if a man's heart is concerned, he is not very willing to do so."

"When that answer has been given honestly and truly--"

"Oh, no doubt. I don't at all suppose that you were dishonest or false when you refused to
allow me to speak to you."

"But, Bernard, I did not refuse to allow you to speak to me."

"Something very like it. But, however, I have no doubt you were true enough. But, Bell, why
should it be so? If you were in love with any one else I could understand it."

"I am not in love with any one else."

"Exactly. And there are so many reasons why you and I should join our fortunes together."

"It cannot be a question of fortune, Bernard."

"Do listen to me. Do let me speak, at any rate. I presume I may at least suppose that you do
not dislike me."

"Oh, no."

"And though you might not be willing to accept any man's hand merely on a question of fortune,
surely the fact that our marriage would be in every way suitable as regards money should not
set you against it. Of my own love for you I will not speak further, as I do not doubt that
you believe what I say; but should you not question your own feelings very closely before you
determine to oppose the wishes of all those who are nearest to you?"

"Do you mean mamma, Bernard?"

"Not her especially, though I cannot but think she would like a marriage that would keep all
the family together, and would give you an equal claim to the property to that which I have."

"That would not have a feather's-weight with mamma."

"Have you asked her?"

"No, I have mentioned the matter to no one."

"Then you cannot know. And as to my uncle, I have the means of knowing that it is the great
desire of his life. I must say that I think some consideration for him should induce you to
pause before you give a final answer, even though no consideration for me should have any weight
with you." 

The curate had told them what troubles and tribulations he had been
forced to undergo in order to restore him to his community and his
loved ones.

So they decided, with fear in their hearts, to be ever watchful, lest he escape and depart on
another rampage.


"Bernard, it would be useless."

"It would at any rate show him that you are willing to think of it."

"But I am not willing to think of it;--not in that way. I do know my own mind thoroughly, and
I should be very wrong if I were to deceive you."

"And you wish me to give that as your only answer to my uncle?"

"To tell the truth, Bernard, I do not much care what you may say to my uncle in this matter.
He can have no right to interfere in the disposal of my hand, and therefore I need not regard
his wishes on the subject. I will explain to you in one word what my feelings are about it.
I would accept no man in opposition to mamma's wishes; but not even for her could I accept
any man in opposition to my own. But as concerns my uncle, I do not feel myself called on to
consult him in any way on such a matter."

"And yet he is the head of our family."

"I don't care anything about the family,--not in that way."

"And he has been very generous to you all."

"That I deny. He has not been generous to mamma. He is very hard and ungenerous to mamma. He
lets her have that house because he is anxious that the Dales should seem to be respectable
before the world; and she lives in it, because she thinks it better for us that she should
do so. If I had my way, she should leave it to-morrow--or, at any rate, as soon as Lily is
married. I would much sooner go into Guestwick, and live as the Eames do."

"I think you are ungrateful, Bell."

"No; I am not ungrateful. And as to consulting, Bernard, I should be much more inclined to
consult you than him about my marriage. If you would let me look on you altogether as a brother,
I should think little of promising to marry no one whom you did not approve."

