"But it isn't gammon. A word from him would put me into quod, and there I should be for the
rest of my days. But what would you care for that?" And poor Mr. Mollett senior shook under
the bedclothes as his attention became turned to this very dreary aspect of his affairs. "Pluck,
indeed! I'll tell you what it is, Aby, I often wonder at my own pluck."

"Psha! Would'nt a word from you split upon him, and upon her, and upon the young 'un, and ruin
'em? Or a word from me either, for the matter of that?"

Mr. Mollett senior shook again. He repented now, as he had already done twenty times, that
he had taken that son of his into his confidence.

"And what on hearth did you say to him?" continued Aby.

"Well, not much more then; at least, not very much more. There was a good deal of words, but
they didn't seem to lead to much, except this, just to make him understand that he must come
down handsome."

"And there was nothing done about Hemmiline?"

"No," said the father, rather shortly.

"If that was settled, that would be the clincher. There would be no further trouble to nobody
then. It would be all smooth sailing for your life, governor, and lots of tin."

"I tell you what it is, Aby, you may just drop that, for I won't have the young lady bothered
about it, nor yet the young lady's father."

"You won't, won't you?"

"No, I won't; so there's an end of it."

"I suppose I may pay my distresses to any young lady if I think fitting."

"And have yourself kicked into the ditch."

"I know too much for kicking, governor."

"They shall know as much as you do, and more too, if you go on with that. There's a measure
in all things. I won't have it done, so I tell you." And the father turned his face round to
the wall.

This was by no means the end of the conversation, though we need not verbatim go through any
more of it. It appeared that old Mollett had told Sir Thomas that his permanent silence could
be purchased by nothing short of a settled "genteel" income for himself and his son, no absolute
sum having been mentioned; and that Sir Thomas had required a fortnight for his answer, which
answer was to be conveyed to Mr. Mollett verbally at the end of that time. It was agreed that
Mr. Mollett should repeat his visit to Castle Richmond on that day fortnight.

"In the mean time I'll go down and freshen the old gentleman up a bit," said Aby, as he left
his father's bedroom.

CHAPTER XIV

THE REJECTED SUITOR

After the interview between Herbert and his mother, it became an understood thing at Castle
Richmond that he was engaged to Lady Clara. Sir Thomas raised no further objection, although
it was clear to all the immediate family that he was by no means gratified at his son's engagement.
Very little more passed between Sir Thomas and Lady Fitzgerald on the subject. He merely said
that he would consider the question of his son's income, and expressed a hope, or perhaps an
opinion rather than a hope, that the marriage would not take place quite immediately.

Under these circumstances, Herbert hardly spoke further to his father upon the matter. He certainly
did feel sore that he should be so treated--that he should be made to understand that there
was a difficulty, but that the difficulty could not be explained to him. No absolute position
was however made, and he would not therefore complain. As to money, he would say nothing till
something should be said to him.

