 An incident of our early times--the outraged Crucifix of the Hotel Dieu
Convent, [77] and the Military Warrant, appropriating to urgent military
wants, the revered seat of learning, the Jesuits' College, naturally
claim a place in these pages. By Lord Ellenborough's advice, letters were immediately despatched by express
to every important native Court to assure the native Princes that this change in the person
at the head of the Government would effect no change in its policy, and Lord Ellenborough himself
wrote in similar terms to the British Representatives at the several Courts.... Lord Ellenborough
has written a letter to the Earl of Ripon with reference to the reasons alleged by the Court
of Directors for his removal from office, to which letter he most humbly solicits your Majesty's
favourable and attentive consideration. In fact honesty is undoubtedly a quality existing in France to
a most extraordinary degree, a greater proof of it cannot be adduced
than the fact that when any person quits a theatre with the idea of
returning in a few minutes they leave their handkerchiefs on their
seats by way of retaining their places, which custom is even practised
at the lowest theatres, where the admittance is only half a franc.

Ingenuity and a tact for invention are certainly features peculiar to the French character, but they are
far behind the English in their methods of transacting business; this
remark is applicable even to most of the public offices; that France
is extremely flourishing, and Paris more particularly so, cannot
be denied, but were it in the hands of the English there is no doubt
their produce, manufactures, and commerce, both home and foreign,
would be considerably greater than it now is.

France has been most peculiarly favoured by nature, her soil produces
everything that can be grown in England, and besides three commodities
which are not genial to our climate, and are of immense value, oil,
silk and wine; hence the products of the soil of France amount annually
to the immense sum of 240,000,000l., or 6,000,000,000 francs; having
such a basis, or one may even say such a capital to work upon, to
what an incalculable extent might business be carried on, with the
amazing industry that exists in France, as in the first place their
population exceeds ours by nearly six millions; then their general
temperance is such, there is not so much time nor labour lost as there
is in England, consequently there are more hands available, and those
generally for a longer period of time, as every one who is familiar
with many manufacturing and even agricultural districts in England
must be aware that there are numbers of workmen who never appear on
the Monday, vulgarly called St. Monday, but spend it at the public
houses.

I myself have had farming men whom I hired by the day in Kent, who did not appear until Wednesday
morning, but that, however, is some years since, and the evil is now correcting. The great deficiency
in France is not only want of great capitalists, but men of enterprise, who
are not afraid to enter upon colossal undertakings; and now, looking
at the speculative works of the greatest magnitude which exist in
France, it will be found that Englishmen are concerned in them, either
as partners in a firm, or the principal shareholders in any company
or association. His policy is naturally
to separate as much as possible the two great Western Powers; he is too weak to resist single-handed
their dictates in the Oriental question; but if they act not in concert, it is evident that
he is the master; in all this he acts wisely and in conformity with the great interests of
his Empire. England has greater interests at stake at the mercy of Russia than at that of France. Meantime,
Count Schwartzburg, reluctantly accepting the conviction that the religious question was an insurmountable
obstacle to a peace, left the provinces for Germany. The last propositions of the government plenipotentiaries
had been discussed in the councils of the various cities, so that the reply of the Prince,
and estates was delayed until the 1st of June. They admitted, in this communication, that the
offer to restore ancient privileges had an agreeable sound; but regretted
that if the whole population were to be banished, there would be but
few to derive advantage from the restoration.

If the King would put an end to religious persecution, he would find as much loyalty in the provinces
as his forefathers had found. It was out of the question, they said, for the states to disarm and
to deliver up their strong places, before the Spanish soldiery had
retired, and before peace had been established.

It was their wish to leave the question of religion, together with all other disputed matters,
to the decision of the assembly.

Were it possible, in the meantime, to devise any effectual method for restraining
hostilities, it would gladly be embraced.

On the 8th of July, the royal commissioners inquired what guarantee the states would be willing
to give, that the decision of the general assembly, whatever it might
be, should be obeyed. The demand was answered by another, in which the
King's agents were questioned as to their own guarantees.

Hereupon it was stated that his Majesty would give his word and sign
manual, together with the word and signature of the Emperor into
the bargain.

In exchange for these promises,
the Prince and estates were expected to give their own oaths and seals,
together with a number of hostages.

Over and above this, they were requested
to deliver up the cities of Brill and Enkhuizen, Flushing and Arnemuyde.
The disparity of such guarantees was ridiculous. But I think
it very unwise in Guizot not to have at once disavowed D'Aubigny for what you yourself call
an "outrage,"[25] instead of letting it drag on for four weeks and letting our people get excited.
The Tangiers Affair[26] is unfortunate, and I hope that in future poor Joinville will not be
exposed to such disagreeable affairs. Hither were not only the 'merchauntes and occupiers of all manner
of wares and merchandizes' in England, but the 'merchauntes straungers' of the Low Countries invited
by proclamation to resort and repair, from time to time, there to 'buy and sell, change and rechange, with perfect
and equal freedom and immunity;' provided always the traffic or 'feates of merchandizes' were effected according
to tariff; 'our dread and sovereigne lord the king mynding the wealth,
increase, and enriching of his realm of England, and of this his town
of Calais. Prince Alfred was
    born on 6th August of this year.]

    [Footnote 25: The assumption of French sovereignty over
    Tahiti.]

    [Footnote 26: Hostilities had commenced between France and
    Morocco, and Tangiers was bombarded.]

    [Footnote 27: A series of letters had appeared in the Times,
    written by British naval officers who had witnessed the
    bombardment of Tangiers, and accused the French Admiral and
    Navy of being deficient in courage. An incident of our early
    times--the outraged Crucifix of the Hotel Dieu Convent, [77] and
the Military Warrant, appropriating to urgent military wants, the
revered seat of learning, the Jesuits' College, naturally claim
a place in these pages. The spectator carried away, with aching senses, a confused memory of many soldiers,
of great peers ill at ease in unbecoming habits, of beautiful women
beautifully attired, of a blaze of jewels that recalled the story
of Aladdin's mine, and of the wonderful effect by which the darkness
of Westminster Hall was suddenly illuminated by an ingenious arrangement
of sconces that caught fire and carried on the message of light with
great rapidity.

The heralds in whose hands
the ceremonial arrangements lay bungled their business badly, causing
fierce heartburnings by confusions in precedence, and displaying a
lamentable ignorance of the names and the whereabouts of many wearers
of stately and ancient titles.

LAEKEN, 5th October 1844.

