The
     English soldier's fire is ten thousand times worse than hell. If we
     could only beat the English it would be well for us, but I am
     afraid we shall never be able to beat these English devils."

     From a letter found on a German officer.

TOMMY ATKINS AT WAR

As Told in His Own Letters

by

JAMES A. KILPATRICK

New York McBride, Nast & Company

1914

NOTE

This little book is the soldier's story of the war, with all his vivid and intimate impressions
of life on the great battlefields of Europe. It is illustrated by passages from his letters,
in which he describes not only the grim realities, but the chivalry, humanity and exaltation
of battle. For the use of these passages the author is indebted to the courtesy and generosity
of the editors of all the leading London and provincial newspapers, to whom he gratefully acknowledges
his obligations.

J.A.K.

CONTENTS

   I   OFF TO THE FRONT                   9

  II   SENSATIONS UNDER FIRE             18

 III   HUMOR IN THE TRENCHES             30

  IV   THE MAN WITH THE BAYONET          39

   V   CAVALRY EXPLOITS                  46

  VI   WITH THE HIGHLANDERS              55

 VII   THE INTREPID IRISH                64

VIII   "A FIRST-CLASS FIGHTING MAN" In his pocket was the message from Lord Kitchener which
Atkins believes to be the whole duty of a soldier: "Be brave, be kind, courteous (but nothing
more than courteous) to women, and look upon looting as a disgraceful act."

Troopship after troopship had crossed the Channel carrying Sir John French's little army to
the Continent, while the boasted German fleet, impotent to menace the safety of our transports,
lay helpless--bottled up, to quote Mr. Asquith's phrase, "in the inglorious seclusion of their
own ports."

Never before had a British Expeditionary Force been organized, equipped and despatched so swiftly
for service in the field. The energies of the War Office had long been applied to the creation
of a small but highly efficient striking force ready for instant action. And now the time for
action had come. The force was ready. From the harbors the troopships steamed away, their decks
crowded with cheery soldiers, their flags waving a proud challenge to any disputant of Britain's
command of the sea.

The expedition was carried out as if by magic. For a few brief days the nation endured with
patience its self-imposed silence. In the newspapers were no brave columns of farewell scenes,
no exultant send-off greetings, no stirring pictures of troopships passing out into the night.
All was silence, the silence of a nation preparing for the "iron sacrifice," as Kipling calls
it, of a devastating war. Then suddenly the silence was broken, and across the Channel was
flashed the news that the troops had been safely landed, and were only waiting orders to throw
themselves upon the German brigands who had broken the sacred peace of Europe. 

Papers ii.

220.]

[Footnote 3: Why so?

It had been so settled in Paris, because the negotiation was opened
under their auspices, and conducted by their agent.--Clarend.

Hist. ii. 750. Papers, ii. 209.]

[Footnote 4: Ibid. 220-222.

It had been asked whether Montreuil had any authority from the Scottish commissioners to make such an engagement.
I see no reason to doubt it.

Both Charles and Montreuil must have been aware that an unauthorized engagement
could have offered no security to the king in the hazardous attempt which
he meditated. We find him twice, before the date of the engagement, requiring
the commissioners to send powers to Montreuil to assure him of safety in person
and conscience in their army (Clarendon Pap. ii. 218), and immediately
afterwards informing Ormond that he was going to the Scottish army
because he had lately received "very good security" that he and his
friends should be safe in person, honour, and conscience.

See the letter in Lords' Journals, viii. 366, and account of a letter
from the king to Lord Belasyse in pys, ii. 246.]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646. April 1.]

Two days later Montreuil resumed his pretended journey to Scotland,
and repaired to Southwell, within the quarters assigned to the Scots.

That they might without inconvenience spare a large escort to meet
the[a] king, he had brought with him a royal order to Lord Belasyse
to surrender Newark into their hands; but, to his surprise and dismay,
he found that the commissioners to the army affected to be ignorant
of the authority exercised by him at Oxford, and refused to take upon
themselves the responsibility of meeting and receiving the king.

They objected that it would be an act of hostility towards the parliament,
a breach of the solemn league and covenant between the nations: nor
would they even allow him to inform Charles of their refusal, till they
should have a personal conference with their commissioners in London.
In these circumstances he burnt the order for the surrender of Newark;
and the king, alarmed at his unaccountable silence, made no attempt
to escape from Oxford.

A fortnight was passed in painful suspense. At last the two bodies of commissioners
met[b] at Royston; and the result of a long debate was a sort of compromise
between the opposite parties that the king should he received, but
in such manner that all appearance of previous treaty or concert might
be

    

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646. April 3.] [Sidenote b: A.D. 1646. April 11.]

    avoided; that he should be requested to give satisfaction
    
    on the question of religion as speedily as possible, and that no co-operation
    of the royal forces with the Scots should be permitted. At first Montreuil,
in the anguish of disappointment, was of opinion that no faith was to be
put in the word of a Scotsman: now he thought that he discovered
a gleam of[a] hope in the resolution taken at Royston, and advised[b]
the king to accept the proposal, if no better expedient[c] could be
devised.

It held out a prospect of safety, though it promised nothing more.[1]

3.

    

During this negotiation the unfortunate monarch, though warned that, by treating at
the same time with two opposite parties, he ran the risk of forfeiting the
confidence of both, had employed Ashburnham to make proposals to the
Independents through Sir Henry Vane.

    
      What the king asked from them was
    to facilitate his access to parliament.
      Ample rewards were held out to Vane, "to the
    gentleman, who was quartered[d]
      with him,"[2] and to the personal
    friends of both; and an assurance was given, that
      if the establishment of Presbyterianism
          were still made an indispensable condition of peace, the king would join his
efforts with theirs "to root out of the kingdom that tyrannical government."

From the remains of the correspondence it appears that to the first
communication Vane had replied in terms which, though not altogether
satisfactory, did not exclude the hope of his compliance; and Charles
wrote to him a second time,

[Footnote 1: These particulars appear
in the correspondence in Clarendon Papers, 221-226.

Montreuil left Oxford on Friday; therefore on the 3rd.]

[Footnote 2: This gentleman might be Fairfax or Cromwell; but from
a letter of Baillie (ii. 199, App.

    
    
    
    
3), I should think that he was an "Independent minister," probably Peters.]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646. April.] [Sidenote b: A.D. 1646. April 18.]
[Sidenote c: A.D. 1646. April 20.] [Sidenote d: A.D. 1646. March 2.]

repeating
his offers, describing his distress, and stating that, unless he received
a favourable answer within four days, he must have recourse to some
other expedient.[1] The negotiation, however, continued for weeks;
it was even discovered by the opposite party, who considered it as
an artful scheme on the part of[a] the Independents to detain the
king in Oxford, till Fairfax and Cromwell should bring up the army
from Cornwall; to amuse the royal bird, till the fowlers had enclosed
him in their toils.[2]

Oxford during the war had been rendered one
of the strongest fortresses in the kingdom.

    On three sides the waters of the Isis and the Charwell, spreading over
the adjoining country, kept the enemy at a considerable distance, and
on the north the city was covered with a succession of works, erected
by the most skilful engineers.

With a garrison of five thousand men,
and a plentiful supply of stores and provisions, Charles might have
protracted his fate for several months; yet the result of a siege
must have been his captivity.

    He possessed no army; he had no prospect of assistance
    from without;
    
    
and within, famine would in the end compel him to surrender. But where
was he to seek an asylum?

    

[Footnote 1: See two letters, one of March 2, from Ashburnham, beginning,
"Sir, you cannot suppose the work is done," and another without date
from Charles, beginning, "Sir, I shall only add this word to what
was said in my last."

They were first published from the papers
of secretary Nicholas, by Birch, in 1764, in the preface to a collection
of "Letters between Colonel Hammond and the committee at Derby House,
&c.," and afterwards in the Clarendon Papers, ii.

226, 227.]

[Footnote 2: See Baillie, App. 3, App. 23, ii. 199, 203. "Their daily
treaties with Ashburnham to keep the king still, till they deliver
him to Sir Thomas Fairfax, and to be disposed upon as Cromwell and
his friend think it fittest for their affairs."--Ibid. A different
account is given in the continuation of Macintosh, vi. 21.]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646. April 23.]

Indignant at what he deemed a breach of faith in the Scots, he spurned
the idea of throwing himself on[a] their mercy; and the march of Fairfax
with the advanced guard of his army towards Andover admonished him that
it was time to quit the city of Oxford.

First he inquired by two officers the opinion of Ireton, who[b] was quartered
at Waterstock, whether, if he were to disband his forces, and to repair
to the general, the parliament would suffer him to retain the title
and authority of king.

Then, receiving no answer[c] from Ireton, he authorized the earl of
Southampton to state to Colonel Rainborowe, that the king was ready
to deliver himself up to the army, on receiving a pledge that his
personal safety should be respected.[1] But Rainborowe referred him
to the parliament; and the unhappy monarch, having exhausted every
expedient which he could devise, left Oxford at midnight,[d] disguised
as a servant, following his supposed master[e] Ashburnham, who rode
before in company with Hudson, a clergyman, well acquainted with the
country.

They passed through Henley and Brentford to Harrow; but the time
which was spent on the road proved either that Charles had hitherto
formed no plan in his own mind, or that he lingered with the hope
of some communication from his partisans in the metropolis.

At last he turned in the direction of St. Alban's; and, avoiding that town,
hastened through bye-ways to Harborough. If he expected to find there
a body of[f] Scottish horse, or a messenger from Montreuil, he was
disappointed.

Crossing by Stamford, he rested at Downham,[g] and spent two or three
days in fruitless inquiries for a ship which might convey him to Newcastle
or Scotland, whilst Hudson repaired to the French agent

[Footnote 1: Hearne's Dunstable, ii.

787-790.]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646. April 22.] [Sidenote b: A.D. 1646.

April 25.] [Sidenote c: A.D. 1646.

April 26.] [Sidenote d: A.D. 1646. April 27.] [Sidenote e: A.D. 1646.

April 28.] [Sidenote f: A.D. 1646.

April 30.]

at Southwell, and returned the bearer of a short note sent by Montreuil,
from whom the messenger understood that the Scots had pledged their
word--they would give no written document--to fulfill on their part
the original engagement made in their name at Oxford.[1] On this slender
security--for he had no[a] alternative--he repaired to the lodgings
of Montreuil early in the morning, and about noon was conducted by
a troop of horse to the head quarters at Kelham.

Leslie and his officers, though they affected the utmost surprise,
treated him with the respect due to their sovereign; and London in
the name of the commissioners required that he should take the covenant,
should order Lord Belasyse to surrender Newark, and should despatch
a messenger with the royal command to Montrose to lay down his arms.

Charles soon discovered that he was a prisoner, and when, to make the experiment, he undertook to give the word
to the guard, he was interrupted by Leven, who said: "I am the older soldier,
sir: your majesty had better leave that office to me."

For ten days the public mind in the capital had been

[Footnote 1: The Scots had made three offers or promises to the king.
The first and most important was the engagement of the 1st of April.

But the Scottish commissioners with the army shrunk from the responsibility
of carrying it into execution; and, as it appears to me, with some reason,
for they had not been parties to the contract. The second was the
modified offer agreed upon by both bodies of commissioners at Royston.

But this offer was never accepted by the king, and consequently ceased
to be binding upon them. The third was the verbal promise mentioned above.
If it was made--and of a promise of safety there can be no doubt,
though we have only the testimony of Hudson--the Scots were certainly
bound by it, and must plead guilty to the charge of breach of faith,
by subsequently delivering up the fugitive monarch to the English
parliament.]

[Footnote 2: Peck, Desid.

Curios. I. x. No. 8. Ashburnham, ii. 76. Rushworth, vi. 266, 267, 276. Clarendon,
Hist. iii. 22; Papers, ii. 228. Turner, Mem. 41.]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646. May 5.]

agitated by the most contradictory rumours: the moment the place of
the king's retreat was ascertained, both Presbyterians and Independents
united in condemning the perfidy of their northern allies.

Menaces of immediate hostilities were heard. Poyntz received orders to watch
the motions of the Scots with five thousand horse; and it was resolved
that Fairfax should follow with the remainder of the army.

But the Scottish leaders, anxious to avoid a rupture, and yet unwilling
to surrender the royal prize, broke up their camp before Newark, and
retired with precipitation to Newcastle.

Thence by dint of protestations and denials they gradually succeeded in
allaying the ferment.[1] Charles contributed his share, by repeating
his desire of an accommodation, and requesting the two houses to send
to him the propositions of peace; and, as an earnest of his sincerity, he
despatched a circular order[a] to his officers to surrender the few
fortresses which still maintained his cause. The war was at an end;
Oxford, Worcester, Pendennis, and Ragland opened[b] their gates;
and to the praise of the conquerors it must be recorded, that they
did not stain their laurels with blood.

The last remnants of the royal army obtained honourable terms from
the generosity of Fairfax; easy compositions for the redemption of
their estates were held out to the great majority of the

[Footnote 1: See their messages in the Lords' Journals, viii.

307, 308, 311, 364; Hearne's Dunstable, ii. 790-800. They protest
that they were astonished at the king's coming to their army; that
they believed he must mean to give satisfaction, or he would never
have come to them; that his presence would never induce them to act
in opposition to the solemn league and covenant; that they should
leave the settlement of all questions to the parliaments of the two
nations; that there had been no treaty between the king and them;
and that the assertion in the letter published by Ormond was "a damnable
untruth."]

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646.

June 10.] [Sidenote b: A.D. 1646. August 20.]

royalists; and the policy of the measure was proved by the number
of those who hastened to profit by the indulgence, and thus extinguished
the hopes of the few who still thought it possible to conjure up another
army in defence of the captive monarch.[1]

While the two houses,
secure of victory, debated at their leisure the propositions to be
submitted for acceptance to the king, the Scots employed the interval
in attempts to convert him to the Presbyterian creed.

For this purpose, Henderson, the most celebrated of their ministers, repaired
from London to Newcastle. The king, according to his promise, listened
to the arguments of his new instructor; and an interesting controversy
respecting the divine institution of episcopacy and presbyteracy was
maintained with no contemptible display of skill between the two polemics.

Whether Charles composed without the help of a theological monitor the papers,
which on this occasion he produced, may perhaps be doubted; but the
author whoever he were, proved himself a match, if not more than a
match, for his veteran opponent.[2] The Scottish

[Footnote 1: Journals,
viii.

309, 329, 360, 374, 475. Baillie, ii. 207, 209. Rush. vi. 280-297. The last who submitted
to take down the royal standard was the marquess of Worcester. He was compelled
to travel, at the age of eighty, from Ragland Castle to London, but
died immediately after his arrival. As his estate was under sequestration,
the Lords ordered a sum to be advanced for the expenses of his funeral.--Journals,
viii. 498, 616. See Note (B) at the end of the volume.]

[Footnote 2: The following was the chief point in dispute.

Each had alleged texts of Scripture in support of his favourite opinion,
and each explained those texts in an opposite meaning.

It was certainly as unreasonable that Charles should submit his judgment
to Henderson, as that Henderson should submit his to that of Charles.

The king, therefore, asked who was to be judge between them.

The divine replied, that Scripture could only be explained by Scripture,
which, in the opinion of the monarch, was leaving the matter undecided. He
maintained that antiquity was the judge.

The church government established by the apostles must have been consonant
to the meaning of the Scripture. Now, as far as we can go back in
history, we find episcopacy established: whence it is fair to infer
that episcopacy was the form established by the apostles.

Henderson did not allow the inference. The church of the Jews had fallen
into idolatry during the short absence of Moses on the mount, the church
of Christ might have fallen into error in a short time after the
death of the apostles.

Here the controversy ended with the sickness and death of the divine.--See
Charles's Works, 75-90.]

leaders, however, came with political arguments to the aid of their champion.
They assured[a] the king that his restoration to the royal authority,
or his perpetual exclusion from the throne, depended on his present
choice.

Let him take the covenant, and concur in the establishment of the Directory,
and the Scottish nation to a man, the English, with the sole exception
of the Independents, would declare in his favour.

His conformity in that point alone could induce them to mitigate the
severity of their other demands, to replace him on the throne of his
ancestors, and to compel the opposite faction to submit.

Should he
refuse, he must attribute the consequences to himself.

He had received sufficient warning: they had taken the covenant,
and must discharge their duty to God and their country.

It was believed then, it has often been repeated since, that the king's
refusal originated in the wilfulness and obstinacy of his temper; and that
his repeated appeals to his conscience were mere pretexts to disguise
his design of replunging the nation into the horrors from which it had
so recently emerged. But this supposition is completely refuted by
the whole tenour of his secret correspondence with his queen and her
council in France.

He appears
to have divided his objections into two classes, political and religious.

1.

It was, he alleged, an age in which mankind were governed from the
pulpit: whence it became an object

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1646.

July 13.]

of the first importance to a sovereign to determine to whose care that
powerful engine should be intrusted.

The principles of Presbyterianism were anti-monarchical; its ministers
openly advocated the lawfulness of rebellion; and, if they were made the
sole dispensers of public instruction, he and his successors might be
kings in name, but would be slaves in effect.

The wisest of those who had swayed the sceptre since the days of Solomon had given his sanction to the
maxim "no bishop no king;" and his own history furnished a melancholy confirmation of the sagacity of his
father. 2. The origin of episcopacy was a theological question, which he had
made it his business to study. He was convinced that the institution
was derived from Christ, and that he could not in conscience commute
it for another form of church government devised by man.



When the heroic things are done and there comes a lull in the fighting, it is sweet to sink
down in the trenches worn out, exhausted, unutterly drowsy, and snatch a brief unconscious
hour of sleep. Some of the men fall asleep with the rifles still hot in their hands, their
heads resting on the barrels. Magnificently as they endure fatigue, there comes a time when
the strain is intolerable, and, "beat to the world," as one officer describes it, they often
sink into profound sleep, like horses, standing. At these times it seems as if nothing could
wake them. Shrapnel may thunder around them in vain; they never move a muscle. In Mr. Stephen
Crane's fine phrase, they "sleep the brave sleep of wearied men." 

This would draw a quick intake of the breath from the hurt man and
an "aahh"--but not once a word of blame. I should want to curse the
careless hand that wrenched my wound, but these soldiers of France and Belgium
whom I carried had passed beyond littleness.

Once we had a French Zouave officer on the stretcher. He was wounded
in the right arm and the stomach.

Every careen of the ambulance over cobble and into shell-hole was a thrust
into his hurt.

We had to carry him all the way from the Nieuport cellar to Zuydcoote
Hospital, ten miles.

The driver was one more of the American young men who have gone over into France to pay back a little
of what we owe her.

I want to give his name, Robert Cardell Toms, because it is good for us to know that we have brave
and tender gentlemen.

On this long haul, as always, he drove with extreme care, changing
his speed without the staccato jerk, avoiding bumps and holes of the trying
road. When we reached the hospital, he ran ahead into the ward to
prepare the bed.

The officer beckoned me to him. He spoke with some difficulty, as the
effort caught him in the wound of his stomach.

"Please be good enough," he said, "to give my thanks to the chauffeur.

He has driven me down with much consideration. He cares for wounded men."

Where
other races are grateful and inarticulate, the French are able to
put into speech the last fine touch of feeling.

My friend kept a supply of cigarettes for his ambulance cases, and
as soon as the hour-long drive began we dealt them out to the bandaged
men.

How often we have started with a groaning man for the ride to Zuydcoote,
and how well the trip went, when we had lighted his cigarette for
him.

It brought back a little of the conversation and the merriment which
it had called out in better days.

It is such a relief to be wounded.

You have done your duty, and now you are to have a little rest. With a clear
conscience, you can sink back into laziness, far away from noise
and filth.

Luck has come along and pulled the pack off your back, and the responsibility
from your sick mind.

No weary city clerk ever went to his seashore holiday with more blitheness
than some of our wounded showed as they came riding in from the Nieuport
trenches at full length on the stretcher, and singing all the way.

What is a splintered forehead or a damaged leg compared to the happiness
of an honorable discharge?

Nothing to do for a month but lie quietly, and watch the wholesome,
clean-clad nurse.

I am not forgetting the sadness of many men, nor the men hurt to
death, who lay motionless and did not sing, and some of whom died
while we were on the road to help.

I am only trying to tell of the
one man in every four who was glad of his enforced rest, and who didn't
let a little thing like agony conquer his gaiety.

Those men were
the Joyous Wounded. I have seldom seen men more light hearted.

Word came to my wife one day that several hundred wounded were side-tracked
at Furnes railway station.

With two nurses she hurried to them, carrying
hot soup.

The women went through the train, feeding the soldiers,
giving them a drink of cold water, and bringing some of them hot water
for washing.

Then, being fed, they were ready for a smoke, and my
wife began walking down the foul-smelling ambulance car with boxes
of supplies, letting each man take out a cigarette and a match.

The
car was slung with double layers of stretcher bunks.

Some men were
freshly wounded, others were convalescent. A few lay in a stupor.

She
provided ten or a dozen soldiers with their pleasure, and they lighted
up and were well under way.

She had so many patients that day that
she was not watching the individual man in her general distribution. Wiping the dust of battle from
his face and loading up for another shot, a Highlander will break forth into one of Harry Lauder's
songs:

    "It's a wee deoch an' doruis,
    Jist a wee drap, that's a',"

and with a laugh some English Tommies will make a dash at the line "a braw, bricht, minlicht
nicht," with ludicrous consequences to the pronunciation! According to "Joe," of the 2nd Royal
Scots, the favorite songs in the trenches or round the camp-fire are "Never Mind," and "The
Last Boat is leaving for Home." "Hitchy Koo" is another favorite, and was being sung in the
midst of a German attack. "One man near me was wounded," says a comrade, "but he sang the chorus
to the finish."

It is remarkable how these songs and witticisms steady the soldiers under fire. In a letter
in the Evening News Sergeant J. Baker writes: "Some of our men have made wonderful practise
with the rifle, and they are beginning to fancy themselves as marksmen. This may not deter a man from crossing an affected zone, but it may
deter the Staffs from using that zone, when they realise that this
would imply the certainty of many thousands of casualties amongst
the troops.

The choice is between two evils, tactical acquiescence to the enemy's
plan, blocking out a certain area, or the certainty of huge casualties.

A very interesting case occurred in the German attack near Mt. Kemmel
in the spring of 1918, where large quantities of German mustard gas
were used some distance in front of the original line of German attack.

In this case, not only was it clear that the Germans would not attempt
to advance beyond a limited objective (and they did not), but the development
of their attack left them organising their defences behind their
own mustard gas barrage.

The "Persistent Lethal" Substance.--The importance of these considerations
can hardly be exaggerated when we realise that, at any time, a substance
possessing the same strategic value as mustard gas, but much more
violent casualty effects, may be discovered.

The Germans were certainly aware of these possibilities.

According to the statement of an apparently reliable prisoner of the 30th R.I.R.,
July, 1918, the Regimental Gas Officer stated in a lecture that, as
the Allies had used a new gas, the Germans were going to employ a "White
Cross" gas shell.

This gas was "stronger" than any of the gases at present in use;
it possessed a persistence up to eight days, and could, therefore,
not be used on the front for an assault.

Its persistence was favoured by damp or misty weather and by the nature
of the ground. Neither the German drum nor the masks of the Allies afforded
protection against it. The last important German development consisted
in the use of pumice impregnated with phosgene in their Livens bombs.

It was clear that the Germans were attempting to produce a gas which
was not only highly lethal but persistent. Following up this idea,
we can forecast the use of a chemical which will not only permit
the formation of defensive flanks, or pockets, in the enemy front,
or in our own defensive positions, through their influence on Staff
considerations with regard to casualties, but, by replacing the relatively
mild casualty effect of mustard gas by a highly and rapidly lethal
effect, will render these areas not only strategically, but physically,
impassable.

One of the most significant possibilities in chemical warfare development
is the arrival of this type of the compound, the highly lethal, highly
persistent chemical.

The Critical Range.--These considerations are very interesting from
the military point of view. Consider the phenomenal amount of muscular
energy required to organise any captured stretch of territory against counter-attack.
The type of compound we have outlined is likely to change completely the
aspect of attack and counter-attack. The Somme battlefield, for example,
gave the impression of a series of defensive positions organised by the one side
or the other after attack or counter-attack, in order to hold small
gains of ground, which were never intended to represent the final advance.
Successful progress from one trench system meant building another,
under the pounding of the enemy's artillery, and the deadly fire of
machine-guns, exposing, in this improvised system, large numbers of
troops, among which casualties constituted a continuous drain upon
eventual reserves.

The arrival of the highly persistent lethal compound should provide an effective substitute for this laborious
constructional protection in the shape of the persistent lethal barrage.

This will render immediate counter-attack and near machine-gun fire
very difficult.

Automatically, fewer men will be needed to hold the advanced positions. It is true that, with
the next attack, "kicking off" and assembly positions will be required, for these can be much more efficiently
developed behind a deep chemical barrage and will demand the exposure
of fewer men where more time is available for preparation.

Such conditions, however, can only occur if one, side possesses some
distinct advantage with regard to surprise by, or efficient protection
against, the persistent lethal compound. When both sides are equally
matched in this respect, a duel will arise in which the winner will
be the one who can throw the critical concentrations of chemical into
a given area at the greatest range.

This might be called the "critical range." Herein lies the importance of the development of such weapons as the
Livens projector, and the Germans had certainly grasped an important principle, when they used our
own modified weapon against us with a much greater range than our
own.

If
we admit the possibility of a persistent lethal compound, this question
of critical range assumes outstanding importance.

The New No-Man's-Land.--The recent war witnessed a rather sudden adoption
of trench warfare, during a period in which the artillery strengths
of both sides were relatively feeble, when compared with the later
stages of the war.

Accordingly, there arose very definite lines of field fortifications, and strongly held trench systems,
separated from each other by a comparatively narrow No-Man's-Land, With the development of the formidable
artillery strengths of belligerents, there was a tendency to form
a much wider No-Man's-Land, and the front line systems were lightly
held, approximating, in many cases, to an outpost line.

The discovery and mass production of a persistent lethal substance
is likely to convert No-Man's-Land into a permanently infected gas
zone, manned by special outposts of permanently protected troops.

Combined with the development of smoke, this may render unnecessary the
highly organised trench assembly systems of the recent war, used before the assault,
and, with the development of the tank as a fast fighting machine,
and for the transport of troops, one can obtain a glimpse of the nature
of the new attack and counter-attack.

A recent writer[1] has shown us the future tank carrying war into
the enemy's country and destroying his nerve centres by actually reaching
and paralysing the G.H.Q.s. of armies and smaller formations.

Such operations will have to occur through a wide zone of the new gas and will necessitate the anti-gas
tank. Indeed, one of the most important functions of the tank will
be to carry the advance guard of an army beyond the infected No-Man's-Land,
and such an advance will occur behind a series of smoke barrages created,
in the first place, by the artillery, and, later, by the advance of
tanks themselves.

[1] Tanks in the Great War, Col. J. F. C. Fuller., D.S.O.

The "Alert Gas Zone."--The development of the "gas alert" idea has definite interest
for the future of chemical warfare.

It is well known how the development of gas shell and surprise gas shoots
by the Germans led to the necessity for "gas alert" conditions between
certain times and within certain distances of the front line. The mask had
to be worn in the so-called ready position, in order that swift adjustment
might be possible in case of surprise attack. The summer of 1917 witnessed
a great increase in gas shell activity.

This was reflected in important changes in the "gas alert" regulations. In the
autumn of that year all periods of readiness were abolished and replaced
by a constant state of readiness.

In the forward area absolute readiness was required within two miles of
the front line, and special precautions were taken as far back as twelve
miles. That the Germans suffered under the same restraints is witnessed by many
captured documents. In particular, a divisional order taken in December,
1917, gave the gas danger zone as within fifteen kilometres of the
front line, and within this region every one must carry a mask.

The alert position of the mask was insisted upon within two kilometres
of the front line. By July the alert zone had increased in depth in both
armies.

This tendency must have increased, had the war continued, for both
sides were employing gas in guns of larger calibres, and weapons
were being devised, such as the improved German Livens projector,
which gave high concentrations at much greater distances from the
front line, i.e. with greater critical ranges.

We have seen how the possible development of a persistent lethal compound
may produce an infected and wide No-Man's-Land. Imposed on this, there
will, no doubt, be "gas alert" conditions of great depths.

How do these conceptions work out for the war of movement?

It would appear that the possession of such a compound and the means
of producing and using it on a very large scale could determine the
stationary or open nature of warfare, if other forces were not too
unequal.

A new military factor emerges, the artificial, permanent, unmanned obstacle,
which can be laid down at will on areas whose magnitude depends finally
on manufacturing capacity.

The germ of the idea appeared during the war at Kemmel and in the various mustard gas barrages formed by artillery
or delayed mines used by the Germans in their great retreat. The sudden development of such barriers
will be equivalent in effect to the creation of strong trench systems, but these could never result,
under war conditions, in time to approach the strategic flexibility
and importance of the persistent lethal infected barrier.

Gas and Aircraft.--The combination of gas and aircraft presents the possibility of attaining strategic
effects by chemical means. Many rumours were afloat, towards the end of the war, regarding the use of gas by
enemy aircraft, and there was apprehension amongst the civil populations,
which has been reflected in numerous public utterances.

Evidence on the matter is very scanty. In July, 1917, the use of gas
in aeroplane bombs by the Germans was reported, but not confirmed.

Further reports in August indicated the use of Blue Cross, owing to
the sneezing effects which were produced on those within reach of the
air bomb. In October, the evidence was more conclusive.

But the German aeroplanes left no blind or dud shell, and, beyond the violent
nasal and sneezing effects of Blue Cross, evidence was again absent.

This
report was very persistent, for, in July, 1918, there were again rumours
that Blue Cross bombs had been dropped on the British near Ficheux. The
Air Forces of the different armies were, perhaps, the last to feel
the effects of the gas campaign, but the pilots of low-flying aeroplanes
in the 1918 offensive were constantly crossing pockets of gas, and
this, added to the fact that the pilots were often compelled to land
in gas, led to their equipment with gas masks.

A respirator of special type was taken from a German aviator in April, 1918,
after the fighting at Passchendaele.

But the war gave us no direct evidence of the successful use of gas
and war chemicals from aircraft.

This,
however, is no criterion as to its eventual importance. The Allies definitely
refrained from employing the combination until Germany should give them the
start in what was regarded as a new atrocity. The main reason for their
lack of development on these lines was probably the fact that the
most suitable type of gas only developed during the later stages of
the war, when it was required exceedingly urgently on the front.

No really harmful persistent compound appeared before the advent of mustard
gas, and the dangerous non-persistent types, such as phosgene, could not
have been used with great success, owing to the fact that very considerable
quantities would have been required to produce any serious effect.

Mustard gas, however, which could have haunted a city for days, would not
have been required in such large quantities. But its more urgent
need on the front, and the fact that soon after it arrived the Germans
were sending out feelers to see whether the Allies would consider
the cessation of chemical warfare, were probably sufficient reasons
to explain their failure to use it from aeroplanes.

Another point must be raised in connection with the use of gas from
aircraft which has not yet received much attention.

We must remember that the use of projectiles from aircraft over a city was a very
different proposition from their use over a battle-field.

One of the advantages of gas over explosives on the field of battle was its greater range of action. It produced
effects at longer distances from the point of impact, but no such incentive
existed for the use of gas from aeroplanes over large cities.

Explosives, which might miss their objective on the field of battle,
could not do so in a city.

They were bound to hit something. The load of the aeroplane is always
important, and the essential is to carry, weight for weight, the material
which will produce the most effect. There is no doubt what this will
he when the persistent lethal compound arrives, and mustard gas would probably
have been superior to explosives for use by German aircraft on British
cities.

Protective Development;--Individual Protection.--The question of protection
against chemical attack presents some knotty problems for the future.

Let us glance at the broad lines of war development in this field and
forecast their future in a speculative way. Protection developed along
two main lines.

Individual protection covered the mask and any other protective appliance
used by the individual soldier, while the term collective protection
was applied to any method or appliance which afforded simultaneous protection
for a number of individuals.

In general, the former represented an attempt to purify the poisoned air actually
inspired by the soldier, whereas the latter was an attempt to purify
the atmosphere of a locality or to prevent its initial poisoning.

How far can the individual form of protection develop to meet the possibilities
of the chemical attack?

It certainly seems to have countered satisfactorily all the war attacks
upon the respiratory system, although, as we have pointed out, the
Germans might have failed, had we been sufficiently prompt in introducing
our arsenic compounds.

But we have forecasted the use of chemicals which may attack human functions
hitherto immune. For the sake of our argument, we can divide these
into two classes, those attained through the respiratory and digestive
systems and those attained through contact with some other part of
the body.

The former can probably be satisfactorily met by developments in the mask.
Even that does not appear certain, when we remember the emphasis laid
by Germany upon the possibility of penetrating the mask by using a
particulate cloud.

The last word has certainly not been spoken in the struggle between the mask
and the chemical attempting to penetrate it. But both the introduction
of mustard gas and general speculative grounds justify us in concluding
that attacks may materialise upon other parts of the human organism, We
cannot foresee the actual point of attack and can, therefore, only
view with assurance some form of protection which covers the whole
body.

Collective Protection.--All parties dabbled in such a form of protection, but the French were the
only ones to make a large-scale experiment on the front. It was not very successful, for the burden
of these oilskin suits was intolerable. It may be that some successful
form of protection for the whole body will materialise, but on general
grounds we can assume that development will follow other lines.

What are the possibilities? They all lie in the direction of collective
protection.

The individual cannot be satisfactorily protected from the new gas
and remain an efficient soldier.

We must, therefore, see whether it is not possible to protect numbers of men by removing them from contact
with the poisoned atmosphere. A stationary form of such protection was used
by all the armies, but emphasised by the French, by the creation
of a large number of enormous underground chambers, some capable of
holding more than a thousand men, the entries to which were carefully
protected by special filtering devices to prevent the entry of the
poisoned external atmosphere.

On the British
front these enormous dug-outs, although not absent, were largely replaced
by the efficient gas-proof organisation of the smaller dugouts.

The use of impregnated blankets for this purpose must be well known to
any who visited the front or took part in hostilities. But you cannot
imprison a whole army in this way

.
 Corporal Clarke, of the Remount
Depot, which was attached to the 18th Hussars, thus described their "little scrap" with the
German horsemen near Landrecies: "We received orders to form line (two ranks), and the charge
was sounded. We then charged, and were under the fire of two batteries, one on each side of
the cavalry. We charged straight through them, and on reforming we drove the Germans back towards
the 1st Lincoln Regiment, who captured those who had not been shot down. We had about 103 men
missing, and we were about 1,900 strong. The order then came to retreat, and we returned in
the direction of Cambrai, but we did not take any part in the action there."

History seems to be repeating itself in amazing ways in this war. Just as the charge of the
Light Brigade at Balaclava has been reproduced by the 9th Lancers, so the Scots Greys and 12th
Lancers have reproduced the famous charge of the "Greys" at Waterloo. This is the fight which
aroused the enthusiasm of Sir Philip Chetwode, for his brigade went through the German cavalry
just as circus horses might leap through paper hoops. "I watched the charge of the Scots Greys
and 12th Lancers," writes Sergeant C. Meades, of the Berkshires. "It was grand. I could see
some of the Germans dropping on their knees and holding up their arms. Then, as soon as our
cavalry got through, the Germans picked up their rifles and started firing again. Our men turned
about and charged back. It was no use the Germans putting up their hands a second time. Our
cavalry cut down every one they came to. I don't think there were ten Germans left out of about
2,000. I can tell you they had all they wanted for that day." An officer of the dragoons, describing
the same charge, says the dragoon guards were also in it, and that his lads were "as keen as
mustard." In fact, he declares, "there was no holding them back. Horses and men positively
flew at the Germans, cutting through much heavier mounts and heavier men than ours. The yelling
and the dash of the lancers and dragoon guards was a thing never to be forgotten. We lost very
heavily at Mons, and it is a marvel how some of our fellows pulled through. They positively
frightened the enemy. We did terrible execution, and our wrists were feeling the strain of
heavy riding before sunset. With our tunics unbuttoned, we had the full use of our right arms
for attack and defense."

Another charge of the Scots Greys is thus described: "Seeing the wounded getting cut at by
the German officers, the Scots Greys went mad, and even though retreat had been sounded, with
a non-commissioned officer leading, they turned on the Potsdam Guards and hewed their way through,
their officers following. Was England justified in declaring war against Germany?

As the last of these questions is the most easily disposed of, it
may be considered first.

England's Justification.

England's justification rests upon the solemn Treaty of 1839, whereby
Prussia, France, England, Austria, and Russia "became the guarantors"
of the "perpetual neutrality" of Belgium, as reaffirmed by Count Bismarck,
then Chancellor of the North German Confederation, on July 22, 1870,
and as even more recently reaffirmed in the striking fact disclosed
in the Belgian "Gray Book."

In the Spring of 1913 a debate was in progress in the Budget Committee
of the Reichstag with reference to the Military Budget.

A year later, on July 31, 1914, Herr von Below, the German Minister at Brussels,
assured the Belgian Department of State that he knew of a declaration
which the German Chancellor had made in 1911, to the effect "that
Germany had no intention of violating our neutrality," and "that he
was certain that the sentiments to which expression was given at that
time had not changed."

(See Belgian "Gray Book," Nos.

11 and 12.)

Apart from these treaty stipulations, which are only declaration of
Belgium's rights as sovereign nations, The Hague Conference, in which
forty-four nations (including Germany) participated, reaffirmed as
an axiom of international law the inherent right of a nation to the
sanctity of its territory.

It seems unnecessary to discuss the wanton disregard of these solemn
obligations and protestations, when the present Chancellor of the German
Empire, in his speech to the Reichstag and to the world on Aug. 4,
1914, frankly admitted that the action of the German military machine
in invading Belgium was a wrong.

It virtually rests the case of Germany upon the gospel of Treitschke and Bernhardi,
that each nation is justified in exerting its physical power to the
utmost in defense of its selfish interests and without any regard
to considerations of conventional morality.

Might as between nations is the sole criterion of right. There is
no novelty in this gospel.

Its only surprising feature is its revival in the twentieth century.
It was taught far more effectively by Machiavelli in his treatise, "The
Prince," wherein he glorified the policy of Cesare Borgia in trampling
the weaker States of Italy under foot by ruthless terrorism, unbridled
ferocity, and the basest deception.

Indeed, the wanton destruction of Belgium is simply Borgiaism amplified
ten-thousandfold by the mechanical resources of modern war. Then, his sword sheathed like lightning, he swung round and
shot a German clean through the head and silenced him forever."

The soldiers' letters throb with such stories, and the swiftness, vigor, and power of expression
revealed in them is astonishing. Most of them were written under withering fire, some scribbled
even when in the saddle, or when the writers were in a state of utter exhaustion at the end
of a nerve-shattering day. "'Hell with the lid off' describes what we are going through," one
of the 12th Lancers says of it. But the men never lose spirit. Even after eighteen or nineteen
hours in the saddle they still have a kindly, cheering message to write home, and a jocular
metaphor to hit off the situation. "We are going on all right," concludes Corporal G.W. Cooper,
16th Lancers; "but still it isn't exactly what you'd call playing billiards at the club."

VI

WITH THE HIGHLANDERS

The Highlanders have been great favorites in France. Their gaiety, humor and inexhaustible
spirits under the most trying conditions have captivated everybody. Through the villages on
their route these brawny fellows march with their pipers to the proud lilt of "The Barren Rocks
of Aden" and "The Cock o' the North," fine marching tunes that in turn give place to the regimental
voices while the pipers are recovering their breath. "It's a long way to Inveraray" is the
Scotch variant of the new army song, but the Scots have not altogether abandoned their own
marching airs, and it is a stirring thing to hear the chorus of "The Nut-Brown Maiden," for
instance, sung in the Gaelic tongue as these kilted soldiers swing forward on the long white
roads of France.

A charming little letter published in The Times tells how the Highlanders and their pipers
turned Melun into a "little Scotland" for a week, and the enthusiastic writer contributes some
verses for a suggested new reel, of which the following have a sly allusion to the Kaiser's
order for the extermination of General French's "contemptible little army":

    "What!
      We play the tune!"

This is all quite in the spirit of the Highland soldiers. A Frenchman, writing to a friend
in London goes into ecstasies over the behavior of the Scots in France, and says that at one
railway station he saw two wounded Highlanders "dancing a Scotch reel which made the crowd
fairly shriek with admiration." Nothing can subdue these Highlanders' spirits. They go into
action, as has already been said, just as if it were a picnic, and here is a picture of life
in the trenches at the time of the fierce battle of Mons. It is related by a corporal of the
Black Watch. "The Germans," he states, "were just as thick as the Hielan' heather, and by weight
of numbers (something like twenty-five to one) tried to force us back. But we had our orders
and not a man flinched. We just stuck there while the shells were bursting about us, and in
the very thick of it we kept on singing Harry Lauder's latest. Wellington saw distinctly enough that there
was no alternative but that which lay in the choice between reform and some sort of popular revolution. We
have seen already in these volumes how Wellington preferred to accept Catholic
Emancipation rather than take the risk of plunging the country into
civil war.

In the case of the Reform Bill he would have acted, no doubt, upon the
same principle if driven to the choice, but after the repeated and energetic
denunciations of reform which he had delivered in the House of Lords he did
not think that it would be a fitting part for him, even for the sake
of helping the sovereign out of his constitutional trouble, to be
the Prime Minister by whom any manner of Reform Bill should be introduced.

Wellington therefore strongly urged the King to send for Sir Robert
Peel, and declared that he himself would lend all the support he possibly
could to a Peel Administration.

Peel was sent for accordingly, but Peel was too far-seeing a statesman to believe that he could possibly
hold office for many weeks unless he yielded to the full demands of the country,
and his political principles would not have allowed him to go so far as
that. He did his best to make it clear to the King that no administration
but a reform administration could stand, and that, if a reform administration had
to be accepted, there was nothing better to be done than to invite
Lord Grey and Lord John Russell back again to office.

Meanwhile the country was aroused to a fervor of enthusiasm in favor of
reform, which seemed only to increase with every delay and to grow
stronger with every opposition.

Public meetings were held in Birmingham of larger size than had ever
been gathered together in England before, and resolutions were passed
by acclamation which were almost revolutionary in their character.

In many cities and towns appeals were made for a run on the {178} bank,
a run for gold, and there were alarming signs that the advice was likely to be followed
to such a degree as to bring about utter confusion in the money market.
In the City of London an immense meeting was held, at which resolutions
were passed calling on the House of Commons to stop the supplies
unless the King accepted the councils of the Whig statesmen and gave
them authority for the election of new peers.

The overwhelming strength of the demand for reform may be easily estimated
when it is remembered that the majority in the great cities and
towns, and also in the counties, were for once of the same opinion.
In more than one great political controversy of modern times, as
in the free-trade agitation for example, it has happened that the
town population were of one opinion and the county population of another.

But at the time which we are now describing the great cities and towns were all nearly unrepresented,
and in their demand for representation they were of one mind and one spirit
with the county populations, which called out for a real and not
a sham representation.

There will probably always be a question of curious speculation and deep
interest to the students of history as to the possibility of a great revolution
in England if the King had made up his mind to hold out against the
advice of the Whig statesmen and to try the last chance.

It is certain that the leading Whig nobles were considering, with profound earnestness, what course it
might be necessary for them to take if the King were absolutely to refuse all concession and to stand by
what he believed to be his sovereign right to set up his own authority
as supreme.

If the choice should be forced on them, would these Whig nobles stand
by the obstinate King or throw in their lot with the people? This grave question
must have been considered again and again in all its bearings by the Whig
leaders during that time of terrible national crisis.

[Sidenote: 1832--The Whig nobles and the military]

It would seem to be beyond all question that some, at least, of the
Whig nobles were contemplating the possibility of their having to
choose between the King and the people, and that their minds were
made up, should the worst come {179} to the worst, to side with the
people.

Many years afterwards, during the State trials at Clonmel which followed
the Young Ireland rebellion of 1848, evidence was brought forward by the
counsel for the defence of Mr. Smith O'Brien and his fellow-prisoners
to prove that the Whig nobles during the reform crisis in England
had been in communication with Sir Charles Napier, the great soldier,
for the purpose of ascertaining how the army would act if there should
come to be a struggle between the sovereign claiming despotic rights
and the people standing up for constitutional government.

All this, however, is now merely a question of interesting historical
speculation.

The King had tried Wellington, had tried Peel, had sent for Wellington a
second time, and found that Wellington, though he dared do all that might become
a man, saw nothing to be gained for sovereign or State by an attempt to
accomplish the impossible, and William at last gave way.

It was about time that he did so. William was becoming utterly unpopular
with the great mass of his subjects. He who had been endowed with
the title of the Patriot King was now to be an object of hatred and contempt
to the crowds in the streets with whom from day to day he could not
avoid being brought into contact. When his carriage appeared in one of
the great London thoroughfares it was followed again and again by jeering
and furious mobs, who hissed and groaned at him, and it was always necessary
for his protection that a strong escort of cavalry should interpose
between him and his subjects.

Even in the London newspapers of the day, those at least that were in
favor of reform, and which constituted the large majority, language
was sometimes used about the King which it would be impossible to
use in our days about some unpopular Lord Mayor or member for the
City.

All this told heavily upon poor King William, who was a good-natured
sort of man in his own way if his ministers and others would only let
him alone, and who rather fancied himself in the light of a popular
sovereign.

He therefore made up his mind at last to accept the advice {180}
of his Whig ministers and grant them the power of creating as many
new peers as they thought fit, for the purpose of passing their importunate
Reform Bill.

The consent was given at an interview which the King had with Lord
Grey and Lord Brougham, Lord Brougham as keeper of the royal conscience
taking the principal conduct of the negotiations on behalf of the
Government.

The King, as usual on such occasions, was flurried, awkward, and hot-tempered,
and when he had made up his mind to yield to the advice of his ministers
he could not so far master his temper as to make his decision seem
a graceful concession.

Even when he announced that the concession was to be made the trouble
was not yet quite over.

Lord Brougham thought it necessary to ask the King for his consent in writing
to the creation of the new peers, and hereupon the wrath of the sovereign
blazed out afresh. The King seemed to think that such a demand showed
a want of confidence in him which amounted to something like an insult,
and he fretted and stormed for a while as though he had been like
Petruchio "aboard carousing to his mates."

After a while, however, he came into a better humor, and perhaps saw
the reasonableness of the plea that Lord Grey and Lord Brougham could
not undertake the task now confided to them without the written warrant
of the King's authority. William therefore turned away and scratched
off at once a brief declaration conferring on his ministers the power
to create the necessary number of peers, qualifying it merely with
the condition that the sons of living peers were to be called upon
in the first instance.

The meaning of this condition was obvious, and its object was not unreasonable
from the King's point of view, or, indeed, from the point of view
of any statesman who was anxious that the House of Lords should be
kept as long as possible in its existing form.

Nobody certainly wanted to increase the number of peers to any great
extent, and if only the eldest sons of the living peers were to be
called to the House of Lords each would succeed in process of time
to his father's title and the roll of the peerage would become once
again as it had been before.

{181}

[Sidenote: 1832--Passage of the third Reform Bill]

The political crisis was over now. When once the royal authority had
been given for the unlimited creation of new peers there was an end
of all the trouble.

Of course, there was no necessity to manufacture any new batches of peers. As
the Reform Bill was to be carried one way or the other, whether with the aid
of new peers or without it, the Tory members of the House of Lords
could not see any possible advantage in taking steps which must only
end in filling their crimson benches with new men who might outvote
them on all future occasions.

    
    
           
    
    
           
    The Reform Bill passed through all its stages
    in the House of Lords, not without
    some angry and vehement discussions, during which personal recriminations
were made that would have been considered disorderly at the meeting
of a parish vestry.
    

One noble lord denounced the conduct of Lord Grey as atrocious, and
even the stately Lord Grey was roused to so much anger by this expression
that he forgot his habitual self-control and dignity and replied
that he flung back the noble lord's atrocious words with the utmost
scorn and contempt.

The Bill passed its third reading in the House of Lords on June 4, 1832,
and received the royal assent on June 7.

The royal assent, however, was somewhat ungraciously given. King William declined to give
his assent in person, a performance which, at the time, seemed to
be expected from him, and it was signified only by the medium of a formal
committee.

The Bill, however, was passed, the third Reform Bill that had been introduced
since Lord Grey had come into office. The Reform Bills for Ireland and
Scotland which had gone through their stages in the House of Commons
immediately after the Bills relating to England and Wales were then
carried through the House of Lords.

The great triumph was accomplished.

It is not without historical interest to notice the fact that a long
discussion sprang up at this time and was revived again and again,
during many successive years, with regard to certain words used by
Lord John Russell in expressing his satisfaction at the passing of
the Reform Bill.

He was endeavoring to calm the apprehensions of timid {182} people throughout
the country who feared that the whole time of Parliament would thenceforward
be taken up with the passing of new and newer Reform Bills, and he
declared that the Government of which he was a member had no intention
but that the Reform Act should be a final measure.

It might have seemed clear to any reasonable mind that Lord John
had no idea of proclaiming his faith in the absolute finality of any
measure passed, or to be passed, by human statesmanship, but was merely
expressing the confident belief of his colleagues and himself that
the Bill they had passed would satisfy the needs and the demands of
the existing generation.

At the time, however, a storm of remonstrance from the more advanced
Liberals broke around Lord John Russell's head, and he was charged
with having declared that the Reform Act was meant to be a measure
for all times, and that he and his colleagues would never more set
their hands to any measure intended to broaden or deepen its influence.

There were indeed
popular caricatures of Lord John to be seen in which he was exhibited with
the title of "Finality Jack."

Lord
John's public career proved many times, in later days, how completely his
meaning had been misunderstood by some of those whose cause he had
been espousing, for all through his honored life he continued to be a
leader of reform. But the common misunderstanding of the phrase was
in itself significant, for it seemed to foretell the fact that the Bill,
with all the great changes it had introduced and the new foundations
it had laid for the future system of constitutional government, was
in itself indeed far from being a final measure.

The authors of the Reform Bill had left what might now be called "the masses" almost altogether
out of their calculations. The rate at which the franchise was fixed
for town and country rendered it practically impossible that the artisan
in the town or the laborer in the country could have any chance whatever
of obtaining a vote.

[Sidenote: 1832--Some defects in the Reform Bill]

This was the one great defect of the Reform Bill introduced by Lord
Grey and Lord John Russell.

Perhaps it would not have been prudent for these statesmen, at that
{183} time, to enter on the introduction of a more comprehensive
measure.

Perhaps Lord Grey and Lord John Russell would have preferred of their
own judgment not to introduce too comprehensive a reform measure all
at once, and to allow the franchise to broaden slowly down.

But it is certain that almost immediately after the passing of the Reform
Bill a profound feeling of disappointment began to grow and spread
among the classes who found themselves excluded from any of its benefits,
and who believed, with good reason, that they had rendered much practical
service in the carrying of the measure.

The feeling prevailed especially among the artisans in the cities
and towns.

In some of the towns the Reform Bill had distinctly operated as a measure
of disfranchisement rather than of enfranchisement. In Preston, for
instance, there had been so large a number of what we have called,
adopting a more modern phrase, "fancy franchises" that something not
very far removed from universal suffrage was attainable by the male
population.

These fancy franchises could not be justified on any principle commending
itself to rational minds, and it was, moreover, an obvious absurdity
to have one system of voting prevailing in this constituency and a
totally different system prevailing in another.

Therefore Lord Grey and Lord John Russell cannot be censured for their
resolve to abolish the fancy franchises altogether. They were introducing
an entirely new constitutional system, and it was evident that in
the new system there must be some uniform principle as to the franchise.
But it is none the less certain that the men who were disfranchised
by an Act professedly brought in to extend the suffrage must have
felt that they had good reason to complain of its direct effect upon
themselves and upon what they believed to be their rights.

Nearly forty years of agitation had yet to be gone through before the principal
deficiencies in the Reform Act of 1833 were supplied by Liberal and Tory legislation.

Before
closing this chapter of history it is fitting to take notice of the
fact that the debates on the Reform Bill gave opportunity for the public
opening of a great career in {184} politics and in literature--the
career of Lord Macaulay.

[Sidenote:
1832--Thomas Babington Macaulay] Thomas Babington Macaulay was a new member
of the House of Commons when the first Reform Bill was introduced by
Lord John Russell. He was the son of Zachary Macaulay, who was famous
in his day, and will always be remembered as the high-minded philanthropist
and the energetic and consistent opponent of slavery and the slave trade.
Macaulay the son had, from his earliest years, given evidence of
precocious and extraordinary intelligence and versatility.

When he entered Parliament he found that his fame had gone before him,
but his friends were not quite certain whether he was to be poet, essayist,
historian, or political orator.
 He determined to make a bid for liberty. Ducking under the rear horse he
seized his rifle, shot the Uhlan, and disappeared in the darkness. For days he lay concealed,
and on one occasion German searchers entered the room in which he was hidden, yet failed to
find him.

Private Court, 2nd Royal Scots, pays a tribute to the gallantry of the Connaught Rangers, and
tells how they saved six guns which had been taken by the enemy. The sight of British guns
in German hands was too much for the temper of the Connaughts, who came on with an irresistible
charge, compelling the guns to be abandoned, and enabling the Royal Field Artillery to dash
in and drag them out of danger. By a later age the temple there was even regarded as the prototype
of the temple of Solomon, that is, as the one legitimate place of worship
to which Jehovah had made a grant of all the burnt-offerings of the
children of Israel (Jer. vii.12; 1Samuel ii.

27-36). But, in point-of fact, if a prosperous man of Ephraim or Benjamin
made a pilgrimage to the joyful festival at Shiloh at the turn of
the year, the reason for his doing so was not that he could have
had no opportunity at his home in Ramah or Gibeah for eating and drinking
before the Lord.

Any strict centralisation is for that period inconceivable, alike in the religious
as in every other sphere. This is seen even in the circumstance that
the destruction of the temple of Shiloh, the priesthood of which
we find officiating at Nob a little later, did not exercise the smallest
modifying influence upon the character and position of the cultus;
Shiloh disappears quietly from the scene, and is not mentioned again
until we learn from Jeremiah that at least from the time when Solomon's
temple was founded its temple lay in ruins.

For the period during which the temple of Jerusalem was not yet in existence,
even the latest redaction of the historical books (which perhaps does
not everywhere proceed from the same hand, but all dates from the same
period--that of the Babylonian exile--and has its origin in the same
spirit) leaves untouched the multiplicity of altars and of holy places.

No king after Solomon is left uncensured for having tolerated the high places,
but Samuel is permitted in his proper person to preside over a sacrificial
feast at the Bamah of his native town, and Solomon at the beginning
of his reign to institute a similar one at the great Bamah of Gibeon,
without being blamed.

The offensive name is again and again employed in the most innocent
manner in 1Samuel ix., x., and the later editors allow it to pass
unchallenged.

The principle which guides this apparently unequal distribution of censure becomes clear from 1Kings
iii. 2: "The people sacrificed upon the high places, for as yet no
house to the name of Jehovah had been built."

Not until the house had been built to the name of Jehovah--such is
the idea--did the law come into force which forbade having other places
of worship besides./1/

********************************** 1.

Compare 1Kings viii. 16.

    
    

According to Deut. xii.10 seq., the local unity of worship becomes law from the time
when the Israelites have found rest (menuha).

Comparing 2Samuel vii.11 and 1Kings v. 18 (A.V., v.4), we find that
"menuha" first came in with David and Solomon.

The period of the judges must at that time have been regarded as much
shorter than appears in the present chronology.

***********************************

From the building of the temple of Solomon, which is also treated
as a leading epoch in chronology, a new period in the history of worship
is accordingly dated,--and to a certain extent with justice.

The monarchy in Israel owed its origin to the need which, under severe external
pressure, had come to be felt for bringing together into the oneness of a
people and a kingdom the hitherto very loosely connected tribes and
families of the Hebrews; it had an avowedly centralising tendency,
which very naturally laid hold of the cultus as an appropriate means
for the attainment of the political end.

Gideon even, the first who came near a regal position, erected a costly sanctuary in his
city, Ophrah. David caused the ark of Jehovah to be fetched into his fortress
on Mount Sion, and attached value to the circumstance of having for its
priest the representative of the old family which had formerly kept
it at Shiloh. Solomon's temple also was designed to increase the
attractiveness of the city of his residence.

It is indubitable that in this way political centralisation gave an impulse to a
greater centralisation of worship also, and the tendency towards
the latter continued to operate after the separation of the two kingdoms,--in
Israel not quite in the same manner as in Judah.

Royal priests, great national temples, festal gatherings of the whole people, sacrifices on an enormous scale, these
were the traits by which the cultus, previously (as it would seem) very simple, now showed the impress of a new
time.

One other fact is significant: the domestic feasts and sacrifices of
single families, which in David's time must still have been general,
gradually declined and lost their importance as social circles widened
and life became more public.

But this way of regarding the influence of the monarchy upon the history
of the worship is not that of the author of the Books of Kings. He views
the temple of Solomon as a work undertaken exclusively in the interests
of pure worship, and as differing entirely in origin from the sacred
buildings of the kings of Israel, with which accordingly it is not
compared, but contrasted as the genuine is contrasted with the spurious.

It is in its nature unique, and from the outset had the design of setting aside all other holy places,--a
religious design independent of and unconnected with politics. The view, however, is unhistorical;
it carries back to the original date of the temple, and imports into
the purpose of its foundation the significance which it had acquired
in Judah shortly before the exile.

In reality the temple was not at the outset all that it afterwards became. Its influence was due
to its own weight, and not to a monopoly conferred by Solomon. We nowhere
learn that that king, like a forerunner of Josiah, in order to favour
his new sanctuary sought to abolish all the others; there is not the
faintest historical trace of any such sudden and violent interference with
the previously existing arrangements of worship.

Never once did Solomon's successors, confined though they were to
the little territory of Judah, and therefore in a position in which
the experiment might perhaps have been practicable, make the attempt
(which certainly would have been in their interest) to concentrate
all public worship within their own temple, though in other directions
we find them exercising a very arbitrary control over affairs of religion.

The high places were not removed; this is what is regularly told us in the case of them all. For Israel properly
so called, Jerusalem was at no time, properly speaking, the place
which Jehovah had chosen; least of all was it so after the division
of the kingdom.

The Ephraimites flocked in troops through the entire length of the
southern kingdom as pilgrims to Beersheba, and, in common with the
men of Judah, to Gilgal on the frontier.

Jerusalem they left unvisited. In their own land they served Jehovah at
Bethel and Dan, at Shechem and Samaria, at Penuel and Mizpah, and at
many other places. Every town had its Bamah, in the earlier times generally
on an open site at the top of the hill on the slopes of which the
houses were.

Elijah, that great zealot for purity of worship, was so far from being offended
by the high places and the multiplicity of altars to Jehovah that their destruction
brought bitterness to his soul as the height of wickedness, and with his
own hand he rebuilt the altar that had fallen into ruins on Mount Carmel.
And that the improvised offering on extraordinary occasions had also
not fallen into disuse is shown by the case of Elisha, who, when
his call came as he was following the plough, hewed his oxen to pieces
on the spot and sacrificed.

In this respect matters after the building of Solomon's temple continued
to be just as they had been before.

If people and judges or kings alike, priests and prophets, men like Samuel and Elijah, sacrificed without
hesitation whenever occasion and opportunity presented themselves,
it is manifest that during the whole of that period nobody had the
faintest suspicion that such conduct was heretical and forbidden.

If a theophany made known to Joshua the sanctity of Gilgal, gave occasion
to Gideon and Manoah to rear altars at their homes, drew the attention
of David to the threshing-floor of Araunah, Jehovah Himself was regarded
as the proper founder of all these sanctuaries,--and this not merely
at the period of the Judges, but more indubitably still at that of
the narrator of these legends.

He rewarded Solomon's first sacrifice on the great Bamah at Gibeon
with a gracious revelation, and cannot, therefore, have been displeased
by it.

After all this, it is absurd to speak of any want of legality in what was then the ordinary practice;
throughout the whole of the earlier period of the history of Israel,
the restriction of worship to a single selected place was unknown to
any one even as a pious desire.

Men believed themselves indeed to be nearer God at Bethel or at Jerusalem than at any indifferent place,
but of such gates of heaven there were several; and after all, the ruling idea was that which
finds its most distinct expression in 2Kings v.17,--that Palestine as a whole was Jehovah's house, His ground
and territory.

Not outside of Jerusalem, but outside of Canaan had one to sojourn far from His
presence, under the dominion and (cujus regio ejus religio) in the
service of strange gods. The sanctity of the land did not depend on that
of the temple; the reverse was the case.

/1/

*********************************** 1. Gen. iv.14, 16: when Cain is driven out of the land (Canaan), he is
driven from the presence of Jehovah (Jonah i.3, 10). Gen. xlvi.4:
Jacob is not to hesitate about going down into Egypt, for Jehovah
will, by a special act of grace, change His dwelling-place along
with him.

Exodus xv.17: "Thou broughtest thy people to the mountain of thine inheritance,
to the place which thou hadst prepared for thyself to dwell in," the explanation
which follows, "to the sanctuary which thy hand had established," is
out of place, for the mountain of the inheritance can only be the mountainous
land of Palestine. 1Samuel xxvi.19: David, driven by Saul into foreign
parts, is thereby violently sundered from his family share in the
inheritance of Jehovah, and compelled to serve other gods.

Hos. viii.1: one like an eagle comes against the house of Jehovah, i.e., the Assyrian comes against
Jehovah's land.

Hos. ix.15: "I will drive them out of mine house," i.e., the Israelites
out of their land. Most distinct is the language of Hos. ix.3-5: "They
shall not continue to dwell in Jehovah's land; Ephraim must back to Egypt,
and must eat that which is unclean in Assyria.

They shall not any more offer wine-offerings to Jehovah, or set forth offerings
[read with Kuenen Y(RKW for Y(RBW ] before Him; their bread is as the
bread of mourners; whosoever eats of it is polluted, for their bread
shall be only for the staying of hunger, and shall not be brought
into the house of Jehovah.

What indeed will ye do in the time of the solemn assembly and in the
day of the feast of Jehovah? "Compare Jer. xvi.13; Ezek. iv.13; Mal. ii.11;
2Kings xvii.25 seq.

It is also possible that the "great indignation" of 2Kings iii.27
is regarded less as Jehovah's than as that of Chemosh, in whose land
the army of Israel is at the time.

*******************************************

I.I.2.

A change in this respect first begins to be prepared at that important epoch of the religious history
of Israel which is marked by the fall of Samaria and the rise of
the prophets connected therewith.

Amos and Hosea presuppose a condition of matters just such as has
been described: everywhere--in the towns, on the mountains, under
green trees--a multitude of sanctuaries and altars, at which Jehovah
is served in good faith, not with the purpose of provoking Him, but
in order to gain His favour.

The language held by these men was one hitherto unheard of when they
declared that Gilgal, and Bethel, and Beersheba, Jehovah's favourite seats,
were an abomination to Him; that the gifts and offerings with which
He was honoured there kindled His wrath instead of appeasing it; that
Israel was destined to be buried under the ruins of His temples, where
protection and refuge were sought (Amos ix.).

What did they mean ? It would be to misunderstand the prophets to suppose that they took offence
at the holy places-- which Amos still calls Bamoth (vii.9), and that
too not in scorn, but with the deepest pathos--in and by themselves,
on account of their being more than one, or not being the right ones.

Their zeal is directed, not against the places, but against the cultus
there carried on, and, in fact not merely against its false character
as containing all manner of abuses, but almost more against itself,
against the false value attached to it.

The common idea was that just as Moab showed itself to be the people of Chemosh because it brought
to Chemosh its offerings and gifts, so Israel proved itself Jehovah's
people by dedicating its worship to Him, and was such all the more
surely as its worship was zealous and splendid; in times of danger
and need, when His help was peculiarly required, the zeal of the
worshippers was doubled and trebled.

It is against this that the prophets raise their protest while they
demand quite other performances as a living manifestation of the
relation of Israel to Jehovah.

This was the reason of their so great hostility to the cultus, and the source of their antipathy
to the great sanctuaries, where superstitious zeal outdid itself; it was this that provoked their
wrath against the multiplicity of the altars which flourished so
luxuriantly on the soil of a false confidence.

That the holy places should be abolished, but the cultus itself remain as before the main concern of religion,
only limited to a single locality was by no means their wish; but
at the same time, in point of fact, it came about as an incidental
result of their teaching that the high place in Jerusalem ultimately
abolished all the other Bamoth.

External circumstances, it must be added, contributed most essentially
towards the result.

As long as the northern kingdom stood, it was there that the main current
of lsraelite life manifested itself; a glance into the Books of Kings
or into that of Amos is enough to make this clear.

In Jerusalem, indeed, the days of David and of Solomon remained unforgotten;
yearning memories went back to them, and great pretensions were based
upon them, but with these the actual state of matters only faintly corresponded.
When Samaria fell, Israel shrivelled up to the narrow dimensions of
Judah, which alone survived as the people of Jehovah. Thereby the field was
left clear for Jerusalem.

The royal city had always had a weighty preponderance over the little kingdom,
and within it, again, the town had yielded in importance to the temple.
From the few narratives we have relating to Judah one almost gathers an impression
as if it had no other concern besides those of the temple; the kings
in particular appear to have regarded the charge of their palace
sanctuary as the chief of all their cares./1/

******************************************
1.

Nearly all the Judaean narratives in the Books of Kings relate to the temple and the measures
taken by the ruling princes with reference to this their sanctuary.
**********************************************

In this way the increased importance of Judah after the fall of Samaria accrued
in the first instance to the benefit of the capital and its sanctuary,
especially as what Judah gained by the fall of her rival was not so much
political strength as an increase of religious self-consciousness. If
the great house of God upon Mount Zion had always overtopped the other
shrines in Judah, it now stood without any equal in all Israel.

But it was the prophets who led the way in determining the inferences to be drawn from the change in
the face of things. Hitherto they had principally had their eyes upon the northern kingdom, its threatened collapse,
and the wickedness of its inhabitants, and thus had poured out their wrath
more particularly upon the places of worship there. Judah they judged
more favourably, both on personal and on substantial grounds, and they
hoped for its preservation, not concealing their sympathies for Jerusalem
(Amos i.2).

Under the impression produced by their discourses accordingly, the fall
of Samaria was interpreted as a judgment of God against the sinful kingdom
and in favour of the fallen house of David, and the destruction of
the sanctuaries of Israel was accepted as an unmistakable declaration
on Jehovah's part against His older seats on behalf of His favourite
dwelling on Zion.

Finally, the fact that twenty years afterwards Jerusalem made her triumphant escape
from the danger which had proved fatal to her haughty rival, that
at the critical moment the Assyrians under Sennacherib were suddenly
constrained to withdraw from her, raised to the highest pitch the
veneration in which the temple was held.

In this connection special emphasis is usually laid-- and with justice--upon
the prophetical activity of Isaiah, whose confidence in the firm foundation
of Zion continued unmoved, even when the rock began to shake in an
alarming way.

Only it must not be forgotten that the significance of Jerusalem to Isaiah did
not arise from the temple of Solomon, but from the fact that it was the
city of David and the focus of his kingdom, the central point, not
of the cultus, but of the sovereignty of Jehovah over His people.

The holy mount was to him the entire city as a political unity, with
its citizens, councillors, and judges (xi.9); his faith in the sure
foundation on which Zion rested was nothing more than a faith in the
living presence of Jehovah in the camp of Israel.

But the contemporaries of the prophet interpreted otherwise his words
and the events which had occurred.
 He had been wounded in the back by a lump of shrapnel, but, says Toomey, "it
was a treat to hear him shouting."

Most of these accounts refer to the weary days of the retirement from Mons to Compiègne, a
test of endurance that brought out the splendid fighting qualities of officers and men alike.
That retirement is certainly one of the most masterly achievements of a war already glorious
for the exploits of British arms. Day after day our men had to fall back, tired and hungry,
exhausted from want of sleep, yet fighting magnificently, and only impatient to begin the attack.
This eagerness for battle is in marked contrast to the spirit of the German troops, of whom
there is abundant evidence that the men have often to be driven into action by the threatening
swords and revolvers of their officers.

Francis Ryan, Northumberland Fusiliers, tells in the Scotsman how young lieutenant Smith-Dorrien
pleaded to be allowed to remain with his men in the trenches after a retirement had been ordered.
The South Staffordshires thought they were "getting along splendidly," says one of the men,
"until the General came and told us we must retreat or we would be surrounded." The officer
spoke very encouragingly, and praised his men; but they were all so unwilling to yield ground
that one of them, expressing impatience, made a comment he would never have thought of doing
in peace time. The General only smiled.

This impatience pervaded all arms of the service. Some of the Highland regiments began to grow
grim and sullen, in spite of their play with the bayonet; and the Irish corps became "unaisy."
It was then that the officers' fine spirit brought reassurance. This is how the King's Royal
Rifles were cheered up, according to Private Harman: "The officers knew we were disappointed,
because on the fifth day of retirement our commanding officer came round and spoke to us. 'Stick
it, boys, stick it,' he said; 'To-morrow we shall go the other way and advance--Biff, biff!'
The way he said 'Biff, biff,' delighted the men, and after that we frequently heard men shouting,
'Biff, biff!'"

General Sir John French, who is a great favorite with all ranks, and spoken of with affection
by every Tommy, makes frequent tours of the lines and has a cheery word for every regiment.
Driver W. Cryer, Royal Field Artillery, relates in the Manchester Guardian that, at St. Quentin,
Sir John French visited the troops, "smiling all over his face," and explained the meaning
of the repeated retirements. Up to then, says Cryer, the men had almost to be pulled away by
the officers, but after the General's visit they fell in with the general scheme with great
cheerfulness.

Summing up his impressions of the nerve-strain of these weary rearguard actions, a famous cavalry
officer writing home, says: "We had a hell of a time.... But the men were splendid. I don't
believe any other troops in the world could have stood it."

X

BROTHERS IN ARMS

There is a fine fraternity between the British and the French soldiers. They don't understand
very much of each other's speech, but they "muddle through," as Atkins puts it, with "any old
lingo." The French call out, "Bravo, Tommee!" and share cigarettes with him: and Atkins, not
very sure of his new comrades' military Christian name, replies with a cheery "Right, Oh!"
Then turning to his own fellows he shouts, "Are we downhearted?" and the clamorous "No!" always
brings forth a rousing French cheer.

Having seen each other in action since they first met on the way to battle they have grown
to respect each other more and more. There is not much interchange of compliments in the letters
from the trenches, but such as there is clearly establishes the belief of Atkins that he is
fighting side by side with a brave and generous ally.

"We always knew," writes one soldier, "that the French were swift and dangerous in attack,
but we know now that they can fight on the stubbornly defensive." One of the South Lancashires
is loud in his praise of their behavior under fire. "Especially the artillery," Sergeant J.
Baker adds; "the French seem to like the noise, and aren't happy unless it's there."

One of The Times correspondents mentions that the German guns have a heavy sound "boum," and
the French a sharper one, "bing"; but neither of them is very pleasant to the ear, and it requires
a cultured military taste like that of the French to enjoy the full harmony of the music when
the British "bang" is added to the general cannonading. The French artillery is admitted to
be fine, the deadly accuracy of the gunners being highly praised by all who have watched the
havoc wrought in the German lines.

For the French soldier, however, the path of greatest glory lies in the charge. Dash and fire
are what he possesses in the highest degree. His highly-strung temperament chafes under delays
and disappointments. He hasn't the solid, bull-dog courage that enables the British soldier
to take hard knocks, even severe punishment, and come up smiling again to renew the battle
that he will only allow to end in one way, and that way victory.

In the advance, as one writer describes it, the French dash forward in spasmodic movements,
making immediately for cover. After a brief breathing space they bound into the open again,
and again seek any available shelter. And so they proceed till the charge is sounded, when
with gleaming bayonets and a cry of "pour la gloire" upon their lips they sweep down upon the
enemy at a tremendous pace. The whole thing is exhilarating to watch, and to the men engaged
it is almost intoxicating. They see red and the only thing that can stop them is the sheer
dead weight of the columns in front. To the French the exploit of the 9th Lancers, already
described in this volume, is the greatest thing in the war. They would have died to have accomplished
it themselves. The fine heroics of such an exploit gives them a crazy delight. Such legislation would possibly
be impossible to enforce with our notions in America. The most interesting of all is perhaps
the attempt made in the State of Connecticut within a few years to
improve social conditions by providing that no married woman should
be employed in factories at all.

The bill was not, of course, carried, but it raises a most interesting
sociological question.

Ruskin probably would have been in favor of it. He described as the
very last act of modern barbarism for the woman to be made "to shriek
for a hold of the mattock herself." It was argued in Connecticut that the
employment of married women injured the health of the children, which
is perfectly true. Indeed, the death-rate in England is very largely
determined by the fact whether their mothers are employed in mills or
not. It was also argued that her competition with man merely halved his wages;
that if no women were employed, the men would get much higher wages.

On the other side it was argued that the effect of the law would be largely immoral because it
would simply prevent women from getting married.

Knowing that after marriage they would get no employment, they would simply
dispense with the marriage ceremony; for it is obvious that under such
legislation a man living with a woman unmarried could get double wages,
which would be halved the moment he made her his wife.

This last was evidently the view which prevailed; and so far as I know, no such law has in the civilized
world yet been enacted, though there is doubtless a much stronger social
prejudice against women entering ordinary employments in some countries
than in others.

The constitutional question underlying all this discussion was perhaps
best set forth by an experiment of the late Mr. Edward Atkinson,
which he always threatened to bring into the courts, but I believe
did not do so.

"An Englishman's house is his castle"; an English woman's house is
her castle.

Atkinson
proposed that a woman of full age, living in her own house, should connect
her loom or spindles by electric wire to the nearest mill or factory,
and then proceed to weave or spin more than the legal limit of nine
hours per day.

Would the state, under the broadest principles of English constitutional
liberty, have the right to come in and tell her not to do so; particularly
when the man in the next house remained free?

Up to this time there is no doubt that a factory, a large congregation of
labor, under peculiar conditions, presents a different question and a different
constitutional aspect from that of the individual.

This, indeed, is the principle which must justify the constitutional
regulation of sweat-shops, as to which we will speak next.

The sweat-shop is the modern phrase for a house, frequently a dwelling,
tenement, or home, not a factory, and not under the ownership or control
of the person giving out the employment.

Now a factory may obviously be regulated under ordinary police principles;
but when the first great case came up as to regulating labor in a
man's own home, even though it was but one floor of a tenement, it
was decided by the highest court of New York to be unconstitutional.

The case was one concerning the manufacture of cigars, which by
the statute was prohibited in tenement houses on any floor partly occupied
for residence purposes.[1] Nevertheless it may be questioned whether, with
the advancing social feeling in such matters, legislation would not
be now sustained when clearly aimed at sanitary purposes, even though
it interfered with trades conducted in a man's dwelling house.

I hold that it is quite as possible for the arm of the state to interfere
to prevent the baking of bread in bedrooms, for instance, as it is
to seize upon clothing which has been exposed to scarlet fever.

A man's home, under modern theories, is no more sacred against this
police power than is his body against vaccination; and the last has
been decided by the Supreme Court of the United States.[2]

[Footnote
1: In re Jacobs, 98 N.Y. 98.

See the author's
"Handbook to the Labor Law of the U.S.," p. 151.]

[Footnote 2: Massachusetts
v. Jacobson, 197 U.S. 11.]

At all events, legislation may be aimed
against sweat-shops which in any sense resemble factories--that is,
where numbers of persons not the family of the occupier are engaged
in industrial labor; so in Pennsylvania it has been extended to jurisdiction
over shops maintained in the back yards of tenements; while in most
States the statute applies to any dwelling where any person not a
member of the family is employed, and general legislation against
sweat-shops already exists in the twelve north-eastern industrial
States from Massachusetts to Missouri and Wisconsin, leaving out only
Rhode Island.

The Massachusetts law as at present forbids work upon clothing except
by members of the family in any tenement without license, and thereupon
subjects the premises to the inspection of the police, and registers
of all help must be kept.

Whoever offers for sale clothing made in a tenement not licensed must affix
a tag or label two inches long bearing the words "Tenement Made," with
the name of the State and city or town in which the garment was made. Moreover,
any inspector may report to the State board of health that ready-made
clothing manufactured under unhealthy conditions is being shipped into
the State, which "shall thereupon make such orders as the public
safety may require."[1] In New York the law applies to the manufacture
of many articles besides clothing, such as artificial flowers, cigarettes,
cigars, rubber, paper, confectionery, preserves, etc. A license may
be denied to any tenement house if the records show that it is liable
to any infectious or communicable disease or other unsanitary conditions.

Articles not manufactured in tenements so licensed may not be sold or exposed
for sale, and there is the same law as in Massachusetts as to goods
coming in from outside the State, and there is the same exemption of
apartments occupied by members of the family, and even then it appears
that they are subject to the visitation of the board of health and
must have a permit.

The Pennsylvania law is similar to the New York law, and in addition, all persons
are forbidden to bargain for sweat-shop labor, that is, labor in
any kitchen, living-room, or bedroom in any tenement house except by
the family actually resident therein, who must have a certificate
from the board of health.

The Wisconsin law apparently applies to persons doing the work in their
own homes, who must have a license like anybody else, and the owner of the building
is liable for its unlawful use. The Illinois and Maryland laws are similar
to the New York law, while the Michigan statute resembles that of Wisconsin,
apparently applying to members of the family as well. The Missouri law forbids
the manufacture of clothing, etc., in tenements by more than three
persons not immediate members of the family, while the New Jersey and
Connecticut statutes content themselves with making such manufacture
by persons not members of the family subject to inspection.

[Footnote 1: Massachusetts R.L., 106, secs. 56 to 60 inclusive.]

It is a curious commentary that the very dream of the social reformers of
only twenty years ago is so rudely dispelled by the march of events;
for in the late nineties it was the hope of the enthusiast, particularly
the student in electrical science, that the factory system might in
time be done away with, and by the use of power served from long or
short distance over wires to a man's own habitation, all the industries
of manufacture might be carried on in a man's own home--just as used
to be the case with the spinners and weavers of olden time.

Far from being a hope, it turns out that this breeds the very worst conditions of all, and the most difficult
to regulate by law. For modern homes for the most part are not sanitary
dwellings in the country, but single floors or parts of floors in huge
tenement houses in great cities.

It is probable to-day, therefore, that there is a perfect reversal of opinion,
and that the social reformer now dreams of a world where no work
is permitted in the home, other than ordinary domestic avocations, but all
is compelled to be done in factories under the supervision of public
authorities--a splendid example of the dangers of hasty legislation;
for had we carried into law the eager desire of the reformers of
only twenty years since, we should, it appears, have been on a hopelessly
wrong track.

It should be noted, however, that the reform of conditions is very largely
arrived at by a different path--that of the building laws in our
cities.

No more arbitrary rule exists to-day or was ever in history than
the despotic sway of a board or commission created under modern police-power
ideas.

In everything else you have a right to a hearing, if not an appeal
to the common-law courts and a jury; but the power of a building inspector
is that of an Oriental despot.

He can order you summarily to do a thing, or do it himself; or destroy
or condemn your property; and you have no redress, nor compensation,
nor even a lawsuit to recover compensation.

Therefore, if the sweat-shop reformers may not constitutionally regulate
the conditions and business of sweating so far as they would like
to go, they can turn about and directly regulate the actual building
of residences where the trade is carried on.

They can require not only so many cubic feet of air per person in the sweat-shop,
but so many cubic feet of air per person in every bedroom; as Ruskin said,
not only, of grouse, so many brace to the acre, but of men and women--so
many brace to the garret. A California law[1] once made it a criminal
offence for any person to sleep with less than one thousand feet of air in
his room for his own exclusive use! It is indeed a crime to be poor.

[Footnote
1: See Ah Kow, Nunan, 5 Sawyer, 552.]

This legislation to reform sweat-shops is a field which has been almost entirely
cultivated by what I have termed the moral reformers, with little
or no help from organized labor.

One's observation is that organized labor has been mainly concerned
with the price of wages, the length of hours, and with the closed shop;
it has devoted very little of its energies to factory or trade conditions,
except, indeed, that it has been very desirous of enforcing the union
label, on which it asserts that union-made goods are always made under
sanitary and moral conditions, and implies that the goods of "scab"
manufacturers are not so.

The usual sweated trades in this country are the manufacture of clothing,
underwear, tobacco, and artificial flowers. There has also been considerable
regulation of laundries and bakeries, but not because they are what
is commonly called sweated trades.

The bulk of factory legislation is too vast for more than mention
in a general way.

It fills probably one-fourth in mass of the labor laws of the whole
country, and applies in great and varying detail to the general condition
of factories, workshops, and in most States to large stores--department
stores--using the word in the American sense.

It may be broadly analyzed as legislation for the construction of factories,
for fresh air in factories, for general sanitary conditions, such as the
removal of dust and noxious gases, white-washing, sanitary appliances,
over-crowding, stair-cases, fire-escapes, and the prohibition of dangerous
machinery.

As has been said, it was begun in Massachusetts in the fifth decade
of the last century, based originally almost entirely on the English factory
acts, which were bitterly attacked by the laissez-faire school of
the early nineteenth century, but soon vindicated themselves as legitimate
legislation in England, although not even there--still less in our
States--have we gone so far as the Continental countries.

Closely connected with this may be mentioned that vast domain of law
which is known as employers' liability. Under the old strict common-law
rule, a servant or employee could never recover damages for any injury caused
in whole or in part by his own negligence, by the negligence of a
fellow servant or even by defective machinery, unless he was able
to prove beyond peradventure that this existed known to the employer
and was the sole and direct cause of the accident.

As is matter of common knowledge, the tendency of all modern legislation,
particularly the English and our own, has been to chip one corner after
another off these principles. The fellow-servant rule has been very
generally abolished by statute, or in many States fellow servants
have been defined and divided into classes so that the master is not
relieved of liability when the injury to the servant is caused by
the negligence of a servant not in actual fact his fellow, i.e., employed
with him in his own particular work.

In like manner the exemption for contributory negligence has been
pared down and the liability for dangerous or defective appliances increased,
practically to the point that the master becomes the insurer of his
machinery in this particular.

The recent English statute goes to the length of putting the liability
on the employer or on an employment fund in all cases.

The writer is strongly of opinion that this radical reform is, so far
as constitutional, the end to be aimed at.

The immense expense and waste caused by present litigation, the complete
uncertainty both as to liability and as to the amount of damages,
the general fraud, oppression, and deceit that the present system leads
to, and finally its hideous waste and extravagance, are all reasons for
doing away with it entirely. He believes that for the employer's own
benefit if there were a statute with a definite scale of damages, providing
definitely, and as part of the employment contract if necessary,
with a certain small deduction from the wages, that there should be
insurance, that the master should be actually liable on a fixed scale
for all injuries suffered while in his employment not in disobedience
to his orders or solely and grossly negligent, it would be far better
both for employer and employee.

To-day it is possible that in many cases the employee gets no damages or
is cheated out of them, or they are wasted in litigation expense
(the Indiana Bar Association reported this year that only about thirty
per cent. of the damages actually recovered of the employer reaches
the party injured); while on the other hand the master can never know
for how much he is going to be liable, and in the rare cases which
get to a jury they are apt to find an excessive verdict.

It is the custom with most gentlemen to pay a reasonable allowance to
any servant injured while in their employ, unless directly disobedient
of orders.

There is no practical reason why this moral obligation should not be embodied
in a statute and extended to everybody.

The scale of damages should of course be put so low as not to encourage
persons to expose themselves, still less their own children, to injury in
the hope of getting monetary compensation. But although in India we are
told the natives throw themselves under the wheels of automobiles,
it is not probable that in American civilization there would be serious
abuse of the law in this particular.

Five thousand dollars, for instance, for loss of life or limb or eye, with a
scale going down, as does the German law, to a mere compensation for
time lost and medical attendance in ordinary injuries, would be sufficient
in equity and would surely not encourage persons voluntarily to maim themselves.

The
next great line of legislation concerns the mode of payment of wages.

The amount, as has been said, is never regulated; but it has been customary
for nearly a century for the law to require payment in cash, or at
least that it be not compulsorily made in goods or supplies, or still
worse in store orders. This line of legislation is commonly known
as the anti-truck laws and exists in most States, but has been strenuously
opposed in the South and Southwest as interfering with the liberty
of contract, so that in those more conservative States the courts
have very often nullified such legislation.

It may be summarized as follows:

(1) Weekly or time payment laws. These exist in more than half the States, and are always constitutional
as to corporations, but are possibly unconstitutional in all States except Massachusetts when applied to private
employers.

(2) Cash-payment laws, requiring payments to be made in actual money. These
statutes are commonly combined with those last mentioned and are
subject to the same constitutional objections.

As a part of them, or in connection with them, we will put the ordinary anti-truck laws--that is, legislation
forbidding payment in produce or supplies or commodities of any kind. Finally, the store-order laws
forbidding payment to be made in orders for indefinite supplies on any particular store, still less on a store
owned or operated by the company or employer.

Such laws have sometimes been held unconstitutional in all particulars, sometimes
when they apply only to certain industries, as, for instance, mines.
In the writer's opinion they are never constitutional when applied to corporations,
nor are they class legislation when applied to mines, for the reason
that it is well known that mines are situated in remote districts
where there are few stores, and that the maintenance of a company
store has not only led to much cheating but to an actual condition
of peonage.

That is to say, the miners would be held in debt and led to believe that they could not leave the mine
or employment until the debt was liquidated. Belonging usually to the most
ignorant class, it is matter of common knowledge that this has been
done, and that Poles, negroes, or others of the more recent immigrants
have been permanently kept in debt to the company store or by advances
or in other ways, as for rent or board.

(3) Closely allied to such legislation, of course, is the legislation
against factory tenements or dwellings, but there is probably less real
abuse here, and therefore a greater constitutional objection against laws
forbidding houses, especially model houses, to be built and rented
by the employer. Such efforts, unfortunately, have not usually been
popular.

Far from helping labor conditions, they seem to have caused great
resentment, as was notably the case in Pullman, Illinois, and very
recently in Ludlow, Massachusetts.

It may be that the American temperament prefers its own house, and resents
being compelled to live in a house, however superior, designed for him and
assigned to him by his employer.

(4) The next matter which has evoked the attention of philanthropists
and the angry resentment of the persons they supposed they were trying
to benefit, is that of the benefit or company insurance or pension
funds.

The principle of withholding, or contracting with the employees to withhold,
a small proportion of their wages weekly or monthly to go into an endowment
or benefit fund, even when the company itself contributes as much
or more, was instituted with sanguine hopes some forty years ago,
first in the great Calumet & Hecla Copper Company, and then in some
of the larger railroads; and was on the point of meeting general acceptance
when it evoked the hostility of organized labor, which secured legislation
in Ohio and other States making it a crime, or at least unlawful,
for either side to make a contract whereby any part of the wages was
taken or withheld for such purposes.

The German theory of old-age pensions is based upon this principle; but it is so unpopular in America that
frequently in the South, when things are done for the workmen, they are hardly permitted to know
it; a pretence, at least, is made that their own contributions are
the entire support of the hospital, library, reading-room, or whatever
it may be, when, in fact, the lion's share is borne by the company.

There
is no doubt that the American laborer resents being done good to,
except by himself; and is organized to resent any system of beneficence to
the point of making it actually prohibited by the law.

Much of the legislation described in this chapter is wise, and probably all of it is wise in intention. Yet,
in closing, one cannot resist calling attention to the unforeseen dangers that always attend legislation running
counter to the broad general basis of Anglo-Saxon civilization. One
need make no fetich of freedom of contract to believe that laws aimed
against it may hit us in unexpected ways.

For one famous example, the cash weekly-payment law in Illinois existed in 1893.
In that year there was a great panic. Nobody could obtain any money; mills
and shops were closing down, particularly in Chicago. Everybody was being
thrown out of employment, and distress to the point of starvation ensued.
In the very worst days of that panic some of the largest and most
charitable employers of labor met their employees in a monster mass
meeting, and reported that while they could not pay in full and nothing
apparently was in prospect but an actual shutdown, they had succeeded
in getting enough cash to keep all their employees, provided they
would take weekly half what was owing to them in money, and the short-time
notes or obligations of the firms, or even of banks, for the remainder.



Fine as have been the adventures of airmen in times of peace, and startling as spectators have
found the acrobatic performance of "looping the loop," these tricks of the air appear feeble
exploits compared with the new sensation of an actual battle in the clouds. Soldiers, scribbling
their letters in the trenches, have been fascinated by the sudden appearance at dusk of a hostile
aeroplane, and have gazed with pleasurable agitation as out of the dim, mysterious distance
a British aviator shot up in pursuit.

"It is thrilling and magnificent," says one officer, "and I was filled with rapture at the
spectacle of the first fight in the clouds. The German maneuvered for position and prepared
to attack, but our fellow was too quick for him, and darted into a higher plane. The German
tried to circle round and follow, and so in short spurts they fought for mastery, firing at
each other all the time, the machines swaying and oscillating violently. The British airman,
however, well maintained his ascendency. Then suddenly there was a pause, the German machine
began to reel, the wounded pilot had lost control, and with a dive the aeroplane came to earth
half a mile away. Our man hovered about for a time, and then calmly glided away over the German
lines to reconnoiter."

Nothing could excel the skill and daring shown by the men of the Royal Flying Corps. They stop
at nothing. I asked whether the Armenians had killed any Government official, or any Turks or Kurds
in Diarbekir. He replied that they had killed no one, but that a few days
after the arrival of the Vali, Reshîd Bey, and the Commandant of Gendarmerie,
Rushdi Bey, prohibited arms had been found in some Armenian houses,
and also in the church.

On the discovery of these arms, the Government summoned some of the principal Armenians and flung them
into prison; the spiritual authorities made repeated representations, asking for the release of these
men, but the Government, far from complying with the request, imprisoned the ecclesiastics also, the number
of Notables thus imprisoned amounting to nearly seven hundred. One day the Commandant of Gendarmerie came
and informed them that an Imperial Order had been issued for their
banishment to Mosul, where they were to remain until the end of the war.
They were rejoiced at this, procured all they required in the way of
money, clothes, and furniture, and embarked on the keleks (wooden
rafts resting on inflated skins, used by the inhabitants of that region
for travelling on the Euphrates and Tigris) to proceed to Mosul.

After a while it was understood that they had all been drowned in the Tigris,
and that none of them had reached Mosul. The authorities continued
to send off and kill the Armenians, family by family, men, women
and children, the first families sent from Diarbekir being those
of Kazaziân, Tirpanjiân, Minassiân, and Kechijiân, who were the wealthiest
families in the place.

Among the 700 individuals was a bishop named--as far as I recollect--Homandriâs;
he was the Armenian Catholic Bishop, a venerable and learned old man
of about eighty; they showed no respect to his white beard, but drowned
him in the Tigris.

Megerditch, the Bishop-delegate of Diarbekir, was also among the 700
imprisoned.

When he saw what was happening to his people he could not endure the disgrace and shame of prison, so
he poured petroleum over himself and set it on fire. A Moslem, who was imprisoned for having written a
letter to this bishop three years before the events, told me that
he was a man of great courage and learning, devoted to his people,
with no fear of death, but unable to submit to oppression and humiliation.

Some

of the imprisoned Kurds attacked the Armenians in the gaol itself, and killed
two or three of them out of greed for their money and clothing, but nothing
was done to bring them to account.

The Government left only a very small number of Armenians in Diarbekir,
these being such as were skilled in making boots and similar articles
for the army.

Nineteen individuals had remained in the prison, where I saw and talked with them; these, according
to the pretence of the authorities, were Armenian bravoes.

The last family deported from Diarbekir was that of Dunjiân, about November,
1915.

This family was protected by certain Notables of the place, from desire for
their money, or the beauty of some of their women.

DIKRÂN.--This man was a member of the central committee of the Tashnagtziân
Society in Diarbekir.

An official of that place, who belonged to the Society of Union and Progress,
told me that the authorities seized Dikrân and demanded from him the names of
his associates. He refused, and said that he could not give the names
until the committee had met and decided whether or not it was proper to furnish
this information to the Government. He was subjected to varieties
of torture, such as putting his feet in irons till they swelled and
he could not walk, plucking out his nails and eyelashes with a cruel
instrument, etc., but he would not say a word, nor give the name of
one of his associates.

He was deported with the others and died nobly out of love for his
nation, preferring death to the betrayal of the secrets of his brave
people to the Government.

AGHÔB KAITANJIÂN.--Aghôb Kaitanjiân was one of the Armenians imprisoned
on the charge of being bravoes of the Armenian Society in Diarbekir,
and in whose possession explosive material had been found. I often
talked to him, and I asked him to tell me his story. He said that one
day, whilst he was sitting in his house, a police agent knocked at the
door and told him that the Chief of Police wished to see him at his
office.

He went there, and some of the
police asked him about the Armenian Society and its bravoes. He replied
that he knew nothing of either societies or bravoes. He was then bastinadoed
and tortured in various ways for several days till he despaired of
life, preferring death to a continuance of degradation. He had a knife
with him, and when they aggravated the torture so that he could endure
it no longer, he asked them to let him go to the latrine and on his
return he would tell them all he knew about the Armenian matter. With
the help of the police he went, and cut the arteries of his wrists[B]
... with the object of committing suicide. The blood gushed out freely;
he got to the door of the police-office and there fainted.

Bomb-dropping, however, has not been indulged in to any great extent by either of the combatants,
and the chief use to which air machines have been put is that of scouting. The Germans use
them largely for range finding, and they seem to prove a very accurate guide to the gunners.
"We were advancing on the German right and doing splendidly," writes Private Boardman (Bradford)
"when we saw an aeroplane hover right over our heads, and by some signaling give the German
artillery the range. I asked whether the Armenians had killed any Government official, or
any Turks or Kurds in Diarbekir.

He replied that they had killed no one, but that a few days after
the arrival of the Vali, Reshîd Bey, and the Commandant of Gendarmerie,
Rushdi Bey, prohibited arms had been found in some Armenian houses,
and also in the church.

On the discovery of these arms, the Government summoned some of the
principal Armenians and flung them into prison; the spiritual authorities
made repeated representations, asking for the release of these men,
but the Government, far from complying with the request, imprisoned
the ecclesiastics also, the number of Notables thus imprisoned amounting
to nearly seven hundred.

One day the Commandant of Gendarmerie came and informed them that
an Imperial Order had been issued for their banishment to Mosul, where
they were to remain until the end of the war.

They were rejoiced at this, procured all they required in the way of money,
clothes, and furniture, and embarked on the keleks (wooden rafts
resting on inflated skins, used by the inhabitants of that region
for travelling on the Euphrates and Tigris) to proceed to Mosul.

After a while it was understood that they had all been drowned in the
Tigris, and that none of them had reached Mosul. The authorities continued
to send off and kill the Armenians, family by family, men, women and children,
the first families sent from Diarbekir being those of Kazaziân, Tirpanjiân,
Minassiân, and Kechijiân, who were the wealthiest families in the
place.

Among the 700 individuals was a bishop named--as far as I recollect--Homandriâs;
he was the Armenian Catholic Bishop, a venerable and learned old
man of about eighty; they showed no respect to his white beard, but
drowned him in the Tigris.

Megerditch, the Bishop-delegate of Diarbekir, was also among the 700 imprisoned.
When he saw what was happening to his people he could not endure
the disgrace and shame of prison, so he poured petroleum over himself
and set it on fire.

A
Moslem, who was imprisoned for having written a letter to this bishop
three years before the events, told me that he was a man of great
courage and learning, devoted to his people, with no fear of death,
but unable to submit to oppression and humiliation.

Some of the imprisoned Kurds attacked the Armenians in the gaol itself,
and killed two or three of them out of greed for their money and clothing,
but nothing was done to bring them to account.

The Government left only a very small number of Armenians in Diarbekir,
these being such as were skilled in making boots and similar articles
for the army.

Nineteen individuals had remained in the prison, where I saw and talked
with them; these, according to the pretence of the authorities, were
Armenian bravoes.

The last family deported from Diarbekir was that of Dunjiân, about November,
1915.

This family was protected by certain Notables of the place, from desire for their money,
or the beauty of some of their women.

DIKRÂN.--This man was a member of the central committee of the Tashnagtziân
Society in Diarbekir.

An official of that place, who belonged to the Society of Union and Progress,
told me that the authorities seized Dikrân and demanded from him the names of
his associates.

He refused, and said that he could not give the names until the committee had
met and decided whether or not it was proper to furnish this information
to the Government. He was subjected to varieties of torture, such as
putting his feet in irons till they swelled and he could not walk,
plucking out his nails and eyelashes with a cruel instrument, etc.,
but he would not say a word, nor give the name of one of his associates.

He was deported with the others and died nobly out of love for his nation,
preferring death to the betrayal of the secrets of his brave people
to the Government.

AGHÔB KAITANJIÂN.--Aghôb Kaitanjiân was one of the Armenians imprisoned
on the charge of being bravoes of the Armenian Society in Diarbekir,
and in whose possession explosive material had been found.

I often talked to him, and I asked him to tell me his story. He said that one
day, whilst he was sitting in his house, a police agent knocked at the door
and told him that the Chief of Police wished to see him at his office.
He went there, and some of the police asked him about the Armenian
Society and its bravoes. He replied that he knew nothing of either
societies or bravoes.

He was then bastinadoed and tortured in various
ways for several days till he despaired of life, preferring death
to a continuance of degradation. He had a knife with him, and when
they aggravated the torture so that he could endure it no longer,
he asked them to let him go to the latrine and on his return he would
tell them all he knew about the Armenian matter.

With the help of
the police he went, and cut the arteries of his wrists[B] ... with
the object of committing suicide. The blood gushed out freely; he
got to the door of the police-office and there fainted. During the whole of the long retreat from Mons, says an officer of the Berkshires,
"there was only one day when we missed our jam rations!"

And it is the same with the men. Here are some brief extracts from their letters:

     Private ----, 20th Field Ambulance:

     "Our food supply is magnificent. We have everything we want and
     food to spare. Bacon and tomatoes is a common breakfast for us."

     Driver Finch: "I am in the best of health, with the feeding and the
     open-air life. The stars have been our covering for the last few
     weeks."

     Sergeant, Infantry Regiment: "The  arrangements are very good--no
     worry or hitch anywhere; it is all wonderful."

     Cavalryman: "We live splendidly, being even able to supplement our
     generous rations with eggs, milk and vegetables as we go through
     the villages."

     Gunner: "Having the time of my life."

Of course, the exigencies of war may not always permit of the perfect working of the supply
machine. Already there have been many hardships to be endured. Incessant fighting does not
give the men time for proper meals, sleep is either cut out altogether or reduced to an occasional
couple of hours, heavy rains bring wet clothing and wetter resting places, boots wear out with
prolonged marching, and men have to go for days and even weeks unwashed, unshaven, and without
even a chance of getting out of their clothes for a single hour. 

Not for a thousand years had a ruler of Croatia addressed his people in their own tongue. One
immense roar of delight broke, as the Morning Post's special correspondent tells us, from the
assembled multitude; men fell on each other's necks, laughed, wept and kissed each other....
Such manifestations must not lead us to believe that all the internal problems of the young State are
settled.

Croatia (as also Slovenia) is jealous of her separate identity, suspicious
to some extent of Serbia, her prestige and projects; she has no intention
of allowing herself, after the hard fight against Magyarization, to
be "Balkanized."

But one thing was made clear by the Prince's visit: there can be no
word or thought of separation.

* * * * *

We have spoken of the disaffection prevalent among the Croats, and on
this the world has fixed its eyes, because of the large number of Croat
deputies who have hitherto declined to come to Belgrade. Nevertheless
there is a more general and more grievous discontent in Yugoslavia,
since, after all, the Croats' attitude is of a temporary character--for
it is probable that after the next general election their peculiar
upbringing will not be so potent in determining their sentiments towards
the State.

More and more will they be ready to make common cause with Serbs and Slovenes; and their criticisms, which
are now so negative, will be of a more useful kind.

(They will recognize, for example, that if it costs 3000 dinars to open
an inn in Serbia they were not justified in protesting when the fee
in Croatia was raised from 5 crowns to 5 dinars.) That Yugoslavia
gives ground for criticism no one, least of all her well-wishers,
deny.

And those who pray that she will prosper do so for the reason that the scattered
Southern Slavs have for the first time now been able--most of them at
any rate--to link their arms together; and we hope that with high qualities
outweighing their defects the Southern Slavs will permanently take
their place among the nations.

But this will not be brought about unless those ailments which they suffer
from are now confronted. Serbs themselves are often saying that their
little Serbia was better than this fine new country which is thrice
as large.

She had fewer problems, she had fewer parties, and if people were corrupt they
were so on a smaller scale. Traditions which are deprecatingly called Balkan,
but which were at that time suited to a Balkan country, should not
be allowed to spread across a country which is so much more than
Balkan.

Merit
does not everywhere in this imperfect world advance you automatically,
but an effort is required in Yugoslavia to resist the calls of friendship
in appointing men to offices. The army of officials is too numerous;
yet many of them are so badly paid that even if a great reformer could
reduce by half their numbers he would be inclined to lay no hand upon
the total sum they now enjoy. But this necessity of cleansing the
public services is not peculiar to Yugoslavia. And then it came into my mind, I know not
bow, to call upon Elias, and at the same moment I saw the sun rising in the heavens;
and while I cried out Elias with all my might, behold! the splendor of
the sun was shed upon me, and immediately shook from me all heaviness.
 "Clearly, there are two men in England who must be sent into permanent retirement. Depend on
it, there is something fundamentally wrong with them. It is a pity,
for they are stuffed with the rarest of virtues--though I say it,
who should not.

One of them is Sir Edward Grey and the other is G.B.S."

Only in France, whose people are making supreme sacrifices, and in Russia, whose
factories are not yet organized for the nation, does industrial peace
prevail.

In England the Munitions bill, with its proposals for compulsory arbitration
and for limiting profits unweakened, was passed on July 1st. The bill
retained, also, the power for the Government to proclaim the extension
of its strike-stopping authority to other trades than the munitions
trades.

Of all the soldiers' wants the most imperative appears to be the harmless necessary cigarette.
All their letters clamor for tobacco in that form. "We can't get a decent smoke here," says
one writer. Our southern ally's loyalty to her beautiful "unredeemed" provinces, and her claim, which all
right-minded Englishmen (I include myself) most heartily endorse,
to dominate the historically Italian waters of the Adriatic, happily
proved too strong for a machine-made sympathy for Berlin based on
nothing better than a superficial resemblance between the histories
of Piedmont and Prussia, and a record of nominal alliance with powers
whose respect for paper treaties was always fairly apparent.

All the same, in reading Mr. W. KAY WALLACE'S essay in recent history,
Greater Italy (CONSTABLE), a volume which I cannot too strongly commend
for its admirable way of telling these and similar things, I am struck
most of all by the super-incumbent mass of Germanism that had to be
burst asunder before the true Italy broke free.

The story of that liberation is romance of an amazing order, for in
it one sees the very soul of a great and ancient people struggling
to renewal of life.

It is more than good to have such an ally, it is an inspiration.

* * * * *

* * * * *

If you wish to complete your knowledge of the working of our new armies
and learn something of the business of the A.S.C. you can do so without
being bored in L. of C. (CONSTABLE), by Captain JAMES AGATE.

The author is one of that
bright band of Mancunians which The Manchester Guardian has attached
to its august fringes. He writes of the business in hand, the vagaries
of stores and indents and mere men and brass hats, on this and the
other side of the Channel, all with a very light and engaging pen, and then
spreads himself on any old far-off thing that interests him, such
as the theatre, perhaps a little self-consciously and with a pleasant
air of swagger most forgivable and, indeed, enjoyable. He was gotten in drink: is not the humor co[n]ceited? Fal. I
am glad I am so acquit of this Tinderbox: his Thefts were too open:
his filching was like an vnskilfull Singer, he kept not time

Ni.

The good humor is to steale at a minutes rest

Pist.

Conuay: the wise it call: Steale? foh: a fico for the phrase

Fal.

Well sirs, I am almost out at heeles

Pist.

Why then let Kibes ensue

Fal.

There is no remedy: I must conicatch, I must shift

Pist.

Yong Rauens must haue foode

Fal.
 "Very intelligent, but a man whose spirit it was impossible to subdue;
and possessing an ambition which stopped at nothing, he became involved
in secret intrigues, and was degraded from his rank by his Highness
the Grand Duke, and exiled to Siberia."roun' me like lightning.

Some of you men seem to be treatin' this bizness in a light-'earted
way.

We
don't do this work to prevent you gettin' into mischief. Not much.
Wotjer join the army for? To fight. Right. I shows yer how to fight.
'Ow many Fritzes jer think I've killed, by teachin' rookies the proper
use of the baynit? This is the goods. 'Ow are we goin' to win this
bloomin' war?

Of all the soldiers' wants the most imperative appears to be the harmless necessary cigarette.
All their letters clamor for tobacco in that form. "We can't get a decent smoke here," says
one writer. The Germans had set fire to it by hand in the night; they had been dislodged from it after
two nights of fierce fighting: their action may be interpreted as
an intention to retreat at this point.

This proceeding, generally detested by our soldiers, is, I think,
forced by strategic necessity.

When a village is destroyed it is very difficult for us in the rear
to make any kind of use of it.

All day we have been witnessing this devastation, while above our
heads the little field-mice are taking advantage of the straw in which
we are to sleep.

Our existence, as infantry, is a little like that of rabbits in the shooting
season. The more knowing of us, at any rate, are perpetually on the
look-out for a hole.

As soon as we are buried in it, we are ordered not to move again.

These wise orders are unfortunately not always given with discrimination;
thus, yesterday there were four of us in an advance-trench situated
in a magnificent spot and perfectly hidden beneath leaves.

We should have been able to delight in the landscape but for the good corporal, who was afraid to
allow us even a little enjoyment of life. Later the artillery came
up with a tremendous din and showed us the use of these superlative
precautions.

None the less, I have been able to enjoy the landscape--alas! a scene
of smoke and tragedy yesterday.

Be sure, beloved mother,
that I do not wish to commit a single imprudence, but certainly this
war is the triumph of Fate, of Providence and Destiny.

I pray ardently to deserve the grace of return, but apart from a few
moments of only human impatience, I can say that the greater part
of my being is given up to resignation.

November 10, 11 o'clock.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--What shall I say to you to-day--a day monotonous
with fog. Over it, though we knew it not, hung the gloom of impending
tragedy.

Around it now cluster memories of the bitter price in blood and anguish which we were soon
called upon to pay for the overthrow of tyranny. It was a lovely
spring evening when we arrived, and the men were able to sit down
on the green grass and have their supper before going into the trenches
by St. Julien.

I walked back down that memorable road which two years later I travelled
for the last time on my return from Paschendaele.

 The slight to The Morning Post would have been too marked.

***
In a case at Bow Police Court it was stated that it took fifteen
policemen and an ambulance to remove a prisoner to the police-station.
It is supposed that the fellow did not want to go.