HALF PORTIONS

                              BY

                         EDNA FERBER

                   GARDEN CITY    NEW YORK
                  DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY
                             1920

CONTENTS                       PAGE

I. THE MATERNAL FEMININE         3 II. APRIL 25TH, AS USUAL        36 III. OLD LADY MANDLE
76 IV. YOU'VE GOT TO BE SELFISH   113 V. LONG DISTANCE               148 VI. UN MORSO DOO PANG
157 VII. ONE HUNDRED PER CENT      201 VIII. FARMER IN THE DELL       230 IX. I doubt if she
knew what it meant. When you are busy copying French models for the fall trade you have little
time or taste for Freud. But perhaps you, until you are made more intimately acquainted with
Chippewa, Wisconsin; with the Decker girls of twenty years ago; with Flora's husband, H. Charnsworth
Baldwin; and with their children Adele and Eugene, may feel a little natural bewilderment.
If there is a less hackneyed way to describe her head on its slender throat than to say it
was like a lovely flower on its stalk, you are free to use it.

"I've got the very thing for you. No one ever bought a hat like that. No one ever will.

"Now, look here, Aunt Soph!

Flora was beside herself. "Eugene won't have to go.

"Now look here, Delia. If you're--" Listen. Don't look like that. I'd have hated being poor,
anyway. Never could have got used to it. It is ridiculous, though, isn't it? Like one of those
melodramas, or a cheap movie. What difference does that make!"

This is the letter that made a difference to Aunt Sophy. You will have
to read it to understand, though you are likely to skip letters on the
printed page. You must not skip this. And if you'll
     only stay with me we'll win this fight." At intervals during
     the night I gave him sips of black coffee which was all he
     could swallow. Each time I gave it to him he would ask me if I
     had had some. That was only one instance of his thoughtfulness
     even in his suffering.

APRIL 25TH, AS USUAL

Mrs. Hosea C. Brewster always cleaned house in September and April. She started with the attic
and worked her purifying path down to the cellar in strict accordance with Article I, Section
1, Unwritten Rules for House Cleaning. For twenty-five years she had done it. For twenty-five
years she had hated it--being an intelligent woman. For twenty-five years, towel swathed about
her head, skirt pinned back, sleeves rolled up--the costume dedicated to house cleaning since
the days of What's-Her-Name mother of Lemuel (see Proverbs)--Mrs. Brewster had gone through
the ceremony twice a year.

Furniture on the porch, woollens on the line, mattresses in the yard--everything that could
be pounded, beaten, whisked, rubbed, flapped, shaken, or aired was dragged out and subjected
to one or all of these indignities. After which, completely cowed, they were dragged in again
and set in their places. Year after year, in attic and in cellar, things had piled up higher
and higher--useless things, sentimental things; things in trunks; things in chests; shelves
full of things wrapped up in brown-paper parcels.

And boxes--oh, above all, boxes: pasteboard boxes, long and flat, square and oblong, each bearing
weird and cryptic pencillings on one end; cryptic, that is, to any one except Mrs. Brewster
and you who have owned an attic. Thus "H's Fshg Tckl" jabberwocked one long, slim box. Another
stunned you with "Cur Ted Slpg Pch." A cabalistic third hid its contents under "Sip Cov Pinky
Rm." To say nothing of such curt yet intriguing fragments as "Blk Nt Drs" and "Sun Par Val."
Once you had the code key they translated themselves simply enough into such homely items as
Hosey's fishing tackle, canvas curtains for Ted's sleeping porch, slip covers for Pinky's room,
black net dress, sun-parlour valance.

The contents of those boxes formed a commentary on normal American household life as lived
by Mr. and Mrs. Hosea C. Brewster, of Winnebago, Wisconsin. Hosey's rheumatism had prohibited
trout fishing these ten years; Ted wrote from Arizona that "the li'l' ol' sky" was his sleeping-porch
roof and you didn't have to worry out there about the neighbours seeing you in your pyjamas;
Pinky's rose-cretonne room had lacked an occupant since Pinky left the Winnebago High School
for the Chicago Art Institute, thence to New York and those amazingly successful magazine covers
that stare up at you from your table--young lady, hollow chested (she'd need to be with that
dêcolletage), carrying feather fan. You could tell a Brewster cover at sight, without the fan.
That leaves the black net dress and the sun-parlour valance. The first had grown too tight
under the arms (Mrs. Brewster's arms); the second had faded.

Now, don't gather from this that Mrs. Brewster was an ample, pie-baking, ginghamed old soul
who wore black silk and a crushed-looking hat with a palsied rose atop it. Nor that Hosea C.
Brewster was spectacled and slippered. Not at all. The Hosea C. Brewsters, of Winnebago, Wisconsin,
were the people you've met on the veranda of the Moana Hotel at Honolulu, or at the top of
Pike's Peak, or peering into the restless heart of Vesuvius. They were the prosperous Middle-Western
type of citizen who runs down to Chicago to see the new plays and buy a hat, and to order a
dozen Wedgwood salad plates at Field's.

Mrs. Brewster knew about Dunsany and georgette and alligator pears; and Hosea Brewster was
in the habit of dropping around to the Elks' Club, up above Schirmer's furniture store on Elm
Street, at about five in the afternoon on his way home from the cold-storage plant. The Brewster
place was honeycombed with sleeping porches and sun parlours and linen closets, and laundry
chutes and vegetable bins and electric surprises, as your well-to-do Middle-Western house is
likely to be.

That house had long ago grown too large for the two of them--physically, that is. But as the
big frame house had expanded, so had they--in tolerance and understanding and humanness--until
now, as you talked with them, you felt that here was room and to spare of sun-filled mental
chambers, and shelves well stored with experience; and pantries and bins and closets for all
your worries and confidences.

But the attic! And the cellar! The attic was the kind of attic every woman longs for who hasn't
one and every woman loathes who has. "If I only had some place to put things in!" wails the
first. And, "If it weren't for the attic I'd have thrown this stuff away long ago," complains
the second. Mrs. Brewster herself had helped plan it. Hardwood floored, spacious, light, the
Brewster attic revealed to you the social, æsthetic, educational, and spiritual progress of
the entire family as clearly as if a sociologist had charted it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Take, for example (before we run down to the cellar for a minute), the crayon portraits of
Gran'ma and Gran'pa Brewster. When Ted had been a junior and Pinky a freshman at the Winnebago
High School the crayon portraits had beamed down upon them from the living-room wall. To each
of these worthy old people the artist had given a pair of hectic pink cheeks. Gran'ma Brewster
especially, simpering down at you from the labyrinthian scrolls of her sextuple gold frame,
was rouged like a soubrette and further embellished with a pair of gentian-blue eyes behind
steel-bowed specs. Pinky--and in fact the entire Brewster household--had thought these massive
atrocities the last word in artistic ornament. By the time she reached her sophomore year,
Pinky had prevailed upon her mother to banish them to the dining room. Then, two years later,
when the Chicago decorator did over the living room and the dining room, the crayons were relegated
to the upstairs hall.

Ted and Pinky, away at school, began to bring their friends back with them for the vacations.
Pinky's room had been done over in cream enamel and rose-flowered cretonne. She said the chromos
in the hall spoiled the entire second floor. So the gold frames, glittering undimmed, the cheeks
as rosily glowing as ever, found temporary resting place in a nondescript back chamber known
as the sewing room. Then the new sleeping porch was built for Ted, and the portraits ended
their journeying in the attic.

One paragraph will cover the cellar. Stationary tubs, laundry stove. Behind that, bin for potatoes,
bin for carrots, bins for onions, apples, cabbages. Boxed shelves for preserves. And behind
that Hosea C. Brewster's bête noir and plaything, tyrant and slave--the furnace. "She's eating
up coal this winter," Hosea Brewster would complain. Or: "Give her a little more draft, Fred."
Fred, of the furnace and lawn mower, would shake a doleful head. "She ain't drawin' good. I
do' know what's got into her."

By noon of this particular September day--a blue-and-gold Wisconsin September day--Mrs. Brewster
had reached that stage in the cleaning of the attic when it looked as if it would never be
clean and orderly again. Taking into consideration Miz' Merz (Miz' Merz by-the-day, you understand)
and Gussie, the girl, and Fred, there was very little necessity for Mrs. Brewster's official
house-cleaning uniform. She might have unpinned her skirt, unbound her head, rolled down her
sleeves, and left for the day, serene in the knowledge that no corner, no chandelier, no mirror,
no curlicue so hidden, so high, so glittering, so ornate that it might hope to escape the rag
or brush of one or the other of this relentless and expert crew.

Every year, twice a year, as this box, that trunk or chest was opened and its contents revealed,
Miz' Merz would say: "You keepin' this, Miz' Brewster?"

"That? Oh, dear, yes!" Or: "Well--I don't know. You can take that home with you if you want
it. It might make over for Minnie."

Yet, why in the name of all that's ridiculous did she treasure the funeral wheat wreath in
the walnut frame? Nothing is more passé than a last summer's hat, yet the leghorn and pink-cambric-rose
thing in the tin trunk was the one Mrs. Brewster had worn when a bride. Then the plaid kilted
dress with the black velvet monkey jacket that Pinky had worn when she spoke her first piece
at the age of seven--well, these were things that even the rapacious eye of Miz' Merz (by-the-day)
passed by unbrightened by covetousness.

The smell of soap and water, and cedar, and moth balls, and dust, and the ghost of a perfumery
that Pinky used to use pervaded the hot attic. Mrs. Brewster, head and shoulders in a trunk,
was trying not to listen and not to seem not to listen to Miz' Merz's recital of her husband's
relations' latest flagrancy.

"'Families is nix,' I says. 'I got my own fam'ly to look out fur,' I says. Like that. 'Well,'
s's he, 'w'en it comes to that,' s's he, 'I guess I got some--'" Punctuated by thumps, spatterings,
swashings, and much heavy breathing, so that the sound of light footsteps along the second-floor
hallway, a young, clear voice calling, then the same footsteps, fleeter now, on the attic stairway,
were quite unheard.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pinky's arms were around her mother's neck and for one awful moment it looked as if both were
to be decapitated by the trunk lid, so violent had been Mrs. Brewster's start of surprise.

Incoherent little cries, and sentences unfinished:

"Pinky! Why--my baby! We didn't get your telegram. Did you--"

"No; I didn't. I just thought I--Don't look so dazed, mummy--You're all smudged, too--what
in the world!" Pinky straightened her hat and looked about the attic. "Why, mother! You're--you're
house cleaning!" There was a stunned sort of look on her face. Pinky's last visit home had
been in June, all hammocks, and roses, and especially baked things, and motor trips into the
country.

"Of course. This is September. But if I'd known you were coming--Come here to the window. Let
mother see you. Is that the kind of hat they're--why, it's a winter one, isn't it? Already!
Dear me, I've just got used to the angle of my summer one. You must telephone father."

Miz' Merz, damply calicoed, rose from a corner and came forward, wiping a moist and parboiled
hand on her skirt. "Ha' do, Pinky. Ain't forgot your old friends, have you?"

"It's Mrs. Merz!" Pinky put her cool, sweet fingers into the other woman's spongy clasp. "Why,
hello, Mrs. Merz! Of course when there's house cleaning--I'd forgotten all about house cleaning--that
there was such a thing, I mean."

"It's got to be done," replied Miz' Merz, severely.

Pinky, suddenly looking like one of her own magazine covers (in tailor clothes), turned swiftly
to her mother. "Nothing of the kind," she said, crisply. She looked about the hot, dusty, littered
room. She included and then banished it all with one sweeping gesture. "Nothing of the kind.
This is--this is an anachronism."

"Mebbe so," retorted Miz' Merz with equal crispness. "But it's got to be cleaned just the same.
Yessir; it's got to be cleaned."

They smiled at each other then, the mother and daughter. They descended the winding attic stairs
happily, talking very fast and interrupting each other.

Mrs. Brewster's skirt was still pinned up. Her hair was bound in the protecting towel. "You
must telephone father. No, let's surprise him. You'll hate the dinner--built around Miz Merz;
you know--boiled. Well, you know what a despot she is."

It was hot for September, in Wisconsin. As they came out to the porch Pinky saw that there
were tiny beads of moisture under her mother's eyes and about her chin. The sight infuriated
her somehow. "Well, really, mother!"

Mrs. Brewster unpinned her skirt and smoothed it down; and smiled at Pinky, all unconscious
that she looked like a plump, pink Sister of Mercy with that towel bound tightly about her
hair. With a swift movement Pinky unpinned the towel, unwound it, dabbed with it tenderly at
her mother's chin and brow, rolled it into a vicious wad, and hurled it through the open doorway.

"Now just what does that mean?" said Mrs. Brewster, equably. "Take off your hat and coat, Pinky,
but don't treat them that way--unless that's the way they're doing in New York. Everything
is so informal since the war." She had a pretty wit of her own, Mrs. Brewster.

Of course Pinky laughed then, and kissed her mother and hugged her hard. "It's just that it
seems so idiotic--your digging around in an attic in this day and age! Why, it's--it's--" Pinky
could express herself much more clearly in colours than in words. "There is no such thing as
an attic. People don't clean them any more. I never realized before--this huge house. It has
been wonderful to come back to, of course. But just you and dad." She stopped. She raised two
young fists high in impotent anger. "Do you like cleaning the attic?"

"Why, no. I hate it."

"Then why in the world--"

"I've always done it, Pinky. And while they may not be wearing attics in New York, we haven't
taken them off in Winnebago. Come on up to your room, dear. It looks bare. If I'd known you
were coming--the slip covers--"

"Are they in the box in the attic labelled 'Slp Cov Pinky Rm'?" She succeeded in slurring it
ludicrously.

It brought an appreciative giggle from Mrs. Brewster. A giggle need not be inconsistent, with
fifty years, especially if one's nose wrinkles up delightfully in the act. But no smile curved
the daughter's stern young lips. Together they went up to Pinky's old room (the older woman
stopped to pick up the crumpled towel on the hall floor). On the way they paused at the door
of Mrs. Brewster's bedroom, so cool, so spacious, all soft grays and blues.

Suddenly Pinky's eyes widened with horror. She pointed an accusing forefinger at a large, dark
object in a corner near a window. "That's the old walnut desk!" she exclaimed.

"I know it."

The girl turned, half amused, half annoyed. "Oh, mother dear! That's the situation in a nutshell.
Without a shadow of doubt there's an eradicable streak of black walnut in your gray-enamel
make-up."

"Eradicable! That's a grand word, Pinky. Stylish! I never expected to meet it out of a book.
And, fu'thermore, as Miz' Merz would say, I didn't know there was any situation."

"I meant the attic. And it's more than a situation. It's a state of mind."

Mrs. Brewster had disappeared into the depths of her clothes closet. Her voice sounded muffled.
"Pinky, you're talking the way they did at that tea you gave for father and me when we visited
New York last winter." She emerged with a cool-looking blue kimono. "Here. Put this on. Father'll
be home at twelve-thirty, for dinner, you know. You'll want a bath, won't you, dear?"

"Yes. Mummy, is it boiled--honestly?--on a day like this?"

"With onions," said Mrs. Brewster, firmly.

Fifteen minutes later Pinky, splashing in a cool tub, heard the voice of Miz' Merz high-pitched
with excitement and a certain awful joy: "Miz' Brewster! Oh, Miz' Brewster! I found a moth
in Mr. Brewster's winter flannels!"

"Oh!" in choked accents of fury from Pinky; and she brought a hard young fist down in the water--spat!--so
that it splashed ceiling, hair, and floor impartially.

Still, it was a cool and serene young daughter who greeted Hosea Brewster as he came limping
up the porch stairs. He placed the flat of the foot down at each step instead of heel and ball.
It gave him a queer, hitching gait. The girl felt a sharp little constriction of her throat
as she marked that rheumatic limp. "It's the beastly Wisconsin winters," she told herself.
Then, darting out at him from the corner where she had been hiding: "S'prise! S'prise!"

His plump blond face, flushed with the unwonted heat, went darkly red. He dropped his hat.
His arms gathered her in. Her fresh young cheek was pressed against his dear prickly one. So
they stood for a long minute--close.

"Need a shave, dad."

"Well, gosh, how did I know my best girl was coming!" He held her off. "What's the matter,
Pink? Don't they like your covers any more?"

"Not a thing, Hosey. Don't get fresh. They're decorating my studio--you know--plasterers and
stuff. I couldn't work. And I was lonesome for you."

Hosea Brewster went to the open doorway and gave a long whistle with a little quirk at the
end. Then he came back to Pinky in the wide-seated porch swing. "You know," he said, his voice
lowered confidentially, "I thought I'd take mother to New York for ten days or so. See the
shows, and run around and eat at the dens of wickedness. She likes it for a change."

Pinky sat up, tense. "For a change? Dad, I want to talk to you about that. Mother needs--"

Mrs. Brewster's light footstep sounded in the hall. She wore an all-enveloping gingham apron.
"How did you like your surprise, father?" She came over to him and kissed the top of his head.
"I'm getting dinner so that Gussie can go on with the attic. Everything's ready if you want
to come in. I didn't want to dish up until you were at the table, so's everything would be
hot." She threw a laughing glance at Pinky.

But when they were seated, there appeared a platter of cold, thinly sliced ham for Pinky, and
a crisp salad, and a featherweight cheese soufflé, and iced tea, and a dessert coolly capped
with whipped cream.

"But, mother, you shouldn't have--" feebly.

"There are always a lot of things in the house. You know that. I just wanted to tease you."

Father Brewster lingered for an unwonted hour after the midday meal. But two o'clock found
him back at the cold-storage plant. Pinky watched him go, a speculative look in her eyes.

She visited the attic that afternoon at four, when it was again neat, clean, orderly, smelling
of soap and sunshine. Standing there in the centre of the big room, freshly napped, smartly
coifed, blue-serged, trim, the very concentrated essence of modernity, she eyed with stern
deliberation the funeral wheat wreath in its walnut frame; the trunks; the chests; the boxes
all shelved and neatly inscribed with their "H's Fshg Tckl" and "Blk Nt Drs."

"Barbaric!" she said aloud, though she stood there alone. "Medieval! Mad! It has got to be
stopped. Slavery!" After which she went downstairs and picked golden glow for the living-room
vases and scarlet salvia for the bowl in the dining room.

Still, as one saw Mrs. Brewster's tired droop at supper that night, there is no denying that
there seemed some justification for Pinky's volcanic remarks.

Hosea Brewster announced, after supper, that he and Fred were going to have a session with
the furnace; she needed going over in September before they began firing up for the winter.

"I'll go down with you," said Pinky.

"No, you stay up here with mother. You'll get all ashes and coal dust."

But Pinky was firm. "Mother's half dead. She's going straight up to bed, after that darned
old attic. I'll come up to tuck you in, mummy."

And though she did not descend to the cellar until the overhauling process was nearly completed
she did come down in time for the last of the scene. She perched at the foot of the stairs
and watched the two men, overalled, sooty, tobacco-wreathed, and happy. When, finally, Hosea
Brewster knocked the ashes out of his stubby black pipe, dusted his sooty hands together briskly,
and began to peel his overalls, Pinky came forward.

She put her hand on his arm. "Dad, I want to talk to you."

"Careful there. Better not touch me. I'm all dirt. G'night, Fred."

"Listen, dad. Mother isn't well."

He stopped then, with one overall leg off and the other on, and looked at her. "Huh? What d'you
mean--isn't well? Mother." His mouth was open. His eyes looked suddenly strained.

"This house--it's killing her. She could hardly keep her eyes open at supper. It's too much
for her. She ought to be enjoying herself--like other women. She's a slave to the attic and
all those huge rooms. And you're another."

"Me?" feebly.

"Yes. A slave to this furnace. You said yourself to Fred, just now, that it was all worn out,
and needed new pipes or something--I don't know what. And that coal was so high it would be
cheaper using dollar bills for fuel. Oh, I know you were just being funny. But it was partly
true. Wasn't it? Wasn't it?"

"Yeh, but listen here, Paula." He never called her Paula unless he was terribly disturbed,
"About mother--you said--"

"You and she ought to go away this winter--not just for a trip, but to stay. You"--she drew
a long breath and made the plunge--"you ought to give up the house."

"Give up--"

"Permanently. Mother and you are buried alive here. You ought to come to New York to live.
Both of you will love it when you are there for a few days. I don't mean to come to a hotel.
I mean to take a little apartment, a furnished apartment at first, to see how you like it--two
rooms and kitchenette, like a playhouse."

Hosey Brewster looked down at his own big bulk, then around the great furnace room. "Oh, but
listen--"

"No, I want you to listen first. Mother's worn out, I tell you. It isn't as if she were the
old-fashioned kind; she isn't. She loves the theatres, and pretty hats, and shoes with buckles,
and lobster, and concerts."

He broke in again: "Sure; she likes 'em for a change. But for a steady diet--Besides, I've
got a business to 'tend to. My gosh! I've got a business to--"

"You know perfectly well that Wetzler practically runs the whole thing--or could, if you'd
let him." Youth is cruel like that, when it wants its way.

He did not even deny it. He seemed suddenly old. Pinky's heart smote her a little. "It's just
that you've got so used to this great barracks you don't know how unhappy it's making you.
Why, mother said to-day that she hated it. I asked about the attic--the cleaning and all--and
she said she hated it."

"Did she say that, Paula?"

"Yes."

He dusted his hands together, slowly, spiritlessly. His eyes looked pained and dull. "She did,
h'm? You say she did?" He was talking to himself, and thinking, thinking.

Pinky, sensing victory, left him. She ran lightly up the cellar stairs, through the first-floor
rooms, and up to the second floor. Her mother's bedroom door was open.

A little mauve lamp shed its glow upon the tired woman in one of the plump, gray-enamel beds.
"No, I'm not sleeping. Come here, dear. What in the world have you been doing in the cellar
all this time?"

"Talking to dad." She came over and perched herself on the side of the bed. She looked down
at her mother. Then she bent and kissed her. Mrs. Brewster looked incredibly girlish with the
lamp's rosy glow on her face and her hair, warmly brown and profuse, rippling out over the
pillow. Scarcely a thread of gray in it. "You know, mother, I think dad isn't well. He ought
to go away."

As if by magic the youth and glow faded out of the face on the pillow. As she sat up, clutching
her nightgown to her breast, she looked suddenly pinched and old. "What do you mean, Pinky!
Father--but he isn't sick. He--"

"Not sick. I don't mean sick exactly. But sort of worn out. That furnace. He's sick and tired
of the thing; that's what he said to Fred. He needs a change. He ought to retire and enjoy
life. He could. This house is killing both of you. Why in the world don't you close it up,
or sell it, and come to New York?"

"But we do. We did. Last winter--"

"I don't mean just for a little trip. I mean to live. Take a little two-room apartment in one
of the new buildings--near my studio--and relax. Enjoy yourselves. Meet new men and women.
Live! You're in a rut--both of you. Besides, dad needs it. That rheumatism of his, with these
Wisconsin winters--"

"But California--we could go to California for--"

"That's only a stop-gap. Get your little place in New York all settled, and then run away whenever
you like, without feeling that this great hulk of a house is waiting for you. Father hates
it; I know it."

"Did he ever say so?"

"Well, practically. He thinks you're fond of it. He--"

Slow steps ascending the stairs--heavy, painful steps. The two women listened in silence. Every
footfall seemed to emphasize Pinky's words. The older woman turned her face toward the sound,
her lips parted, her eyes anxious, tender.

"How tired he sounds," said Pinky; "and old. And he's only--why, dad's only fifty-eight."

"Fifty-seven," snapped Mrs. Brewster, sharply, protectingly.

Pinky leaned forward and kissed her. "Good-night, mummy dear. You're so tired, aren't you?"

Her father stood in the doorway.

"Good-night, dear. I ought to be tucking you into bed. It's all turned around, isn't it? Biscuits
and honey for breakfast, remember."

So Pinky went off to her own room (sans slp cov) and slept soundly, dreamlessly, as does one
whose work is well done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three days later Pinky left. She waved a good-bye from the car platform, a radiant, electric,
confident Pinky, her work well done.

"Au 'voir! The first of November! Everything begins then. You'll love it. You'll be real New
Yorkers by Christmas. Now, no changing your minds, remember."

And by Christmas, somehow, miraculously, there were they, real New Yorkers; or as real and
as New York as any one can be who is living in a studio apartment (duplex) that has been rented
(furnished) from a lady who turned out to be from Des Moines.

When they arrived, Pinky had four apartments waiting for their inspection. She told them this
in triumph, and well she might, it being the winter after the war, when New York apartments
were as scarce as black diamonds and twice as costly.

Father Brewster, on hearing the price, emitted a long, low whistle and said: "How many rooms
did you say?"

"Two--and a kitchenette, of course."

"Well, then, all I can say is the furniture ought to be solid gold for that; inlaid with rubies
and picked out with platinum."

But it wasn't. In fact, it wasn't solid anything, being mostly of a very impermanent structure
and style. Pinky explained that she had kept the best for the last. The thing that worried
Father Brewster was that, no matter at what hour of the day they might happen to call on the
prospective lessor, that person was always feminine and hatted. Once it was eleven in the morning.
Once five in the afternoon.

"Do these New York women wear hats in the house all the time?" demanded Hosea Brewster, worriedly.
"I think they sleep in 'em. It's a wonder they ain't bald. Maybe they are. Maybe that's why.
Anyway, it makes you feel like a book agent."

He sounded excited and tired, "Now, father!" said Mrs. Brewster, soothingly.

They were in the elevator that was taking them up to the fourth and (according to Pinky) choicest
apartment. The building was what is known as a studio apartment, in the West Sixties. The corridors
were done in red flagstones, with gray-tone walls. The metal doors were painted gray.

Pinky was snickering. "Now she'll say: 'Well, we've been very comfortable here.' They always
do. Don't look too eager."

"No fear," put in Hosey Brewster.

"It's really lovely. And a real fireplace. Everything new and good. She's asking two hundred
and twenty-five. Offer her one seventy-five. She'll take two hundred."

"You bet she will," growled Hosea.

She answered the door--hatted; hatted in henna, that being the season's chosen colour. A small,
dark foyer, overcrowded with furniture; a studio living room, bright, high-ceilinged, smallish;
one entire side was window. There were Japanese prints, and a baby grand piano, and a lot of
tables, and a davenport placed the way they do it on the stage, with its back to the room and
its arms to the fireplace, and a long table just behind it, with a lamp on it, and books, and
a dull jar thing, just as you've see it in the second-act library.

Hosea Brewster twisted his head around and up to gaze at the lofty ceiling. "Feel's if I was
standing at the bottom of a well," he remarked.

But the hatted one did not hear him. "No; no dining room," she was saying, briskly. "No, indeed.
I always use this gate-legged table. You see? It pulls out like this. You can easily seat six--eight,
in fact."

"Heaven forbid!" in fervent sotto voce from Father Brewster.

"It's an enormous saving in time and labour."

"The--kitchen!" inquired Mrs. Brewster.

The hat waxed playful. "You'll never guess where the kitchen is!" She skipped across the room.
"You see this screen?" They saw it. A really handsome affair, and so placed at one end of the
room that it looked a part of it. "Come here." They came. The reverse side of the screen was
dotted with hooks, and on each hook hung a pot, a pan, a ladle, a spoon. And there was the
tiny gas range, the infinitesimal ice chest, the miniature sink. The whole would have been
lost in one corner of the Brewster's Winnebago china closet.

"Why, how--how wonderful!" breathed Mrs. Brewster.

"Isn't it? So complete--and so convenient. I've cooked roasts, steaks, chops, everything right
here. It's just play."

A terrible fear seized upon Father Brewster. He eyed the sink and the tiny range with a suspicious
eye. "The beds," he demanded, "where are the beds?"

She opened the little oven door and his heart sank. But, "They're upstairs," she said. "This
is a duplex, you know."

A little flight of winding stairs ended in a balcony. The rail was hung with a gay mandarin
robe. Two more steps and you were in the bedroom--a rather breathless little bedroom, profusely
rose-coloured, and with whole battalions of photographs in flat silver frames standing about
on dressing table, shelf, desk. The one window faced a gray brick wall.

They took the apartment. And thus began a life of ease and gayety for Mr. and Mrs. Hosea C.
Brewster, of Winnebago, Wisconsin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pinky had dinner with them the first night, and they laughed a great deal, what with one thing
and another. She sprang up to the balcony, and let down her bright hair, and leaned over the
railing, à la Juliet, having first decked Hosey out in a sketchy but effective Romeo costume
consisting of a hastily snatched up scarf over one shoulder, Pinky's little turban, and a frying
pan for a lute. Mother Brewster did the Nurse, and by the time Hosea began his limping climb
up the balcony, the turban over one eye and the scarf winding itself about his stocky legs,
they ended by tumbling in a heap of tearful laughter.

After Pinky left there came upon them, in that cozy little two-room apartment, a feeling of
desolation and vastness, and a terrible loneliness such as they had never dreamed of in the
great twelve-room house in Winnebago. They kept close to each other. They toiled up the winding
stairs together and stood a moment on the balcony, feigning a light-heartedness that neither
of them felt.

They lay very still in the little stuffy rose-coloured room, and the street noises of New York
came up to them--a loose chain flapping against the mud guard of a taxi; the jolt of a flat-wheeled
Eighth Avenue street car; the roar of an L train; laughter; the bleat of a motor horn; a piano
in the apartment next door, or upstairs, or down.

She thought, as she lay there, choking, of the great, gracious gray-and-blue room at home,
many-windowed, sweet-smelling, quiet. Quiet!

Then, as he had said that night in September: "Sleeping, mother?"

"N-no. Not yet. Just dozing off."

"It's the strange beds, I guess. This is going to be great, though. Great!"

"My, yes!" agreed Mrs. Brewster, heartily.

They awoke next morning unrefreshed. Pa Brewster, back home in Winnebago, always whistled mournfully,
off key, when he shaved. The more doleful his tune the happier his wife knew him to be. Also,
she had learned to mark his progress by this or that passage in a refrain. Sometimes he sang,
too (also off key), and you heard his genial roar all over the house. The louder he roared,
and the more doleful the tune, the happier his frame of mind. Milly Brewster knew this. She
had never known that she knew it. Neither had he. It was just one of those subconscious bits
of marital knowledge that make for happiness and understanding.

When he sang "The Dying Cowboy's Lament" and came to the passage, "Oh, take me to the churchyard
and lay the sod o-o-over me," Mrs. Brewster used to say: "Gussie, Mr. Brewster'll be down in
ten minutes. You can start the eggs."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the months of their gay life in Sixty-Seventh Street Hosey Brewster never once sang "The
Dying Cowboy's Lament," nor whistled "In the Sweet By-and-By." No; he whistled not at all,
or when he did, gay bits of jazz heard at the theatre or in a restaurant the night before.
He deceived no one, least of all himself. Sometimes his voice would trail off into nothingness,
but he would catch the tune and toss it up again, heavily, as though it were a physical weight.

Theatres! Music! Restaurants! Teas! Shopping! The gay life!

"Enjoying yourself, Milly?" he would say.

"Time of my life, father."

She had her hair dressed in those geometrical undulations without which no New York audience
feels itself clothed. They saw Pinky less frequently as time went on and her feeling of responsibility
lessened. Besides, the magazine covers took most of her day. She gave a tea for her father
and mother at her own studio, and Mrs. Brewster's hat, slippers, gown, and manner equalled
in line, style, cut, and texture those of any other woman present, which rather surprised her
until she had talked to five or six of them.

She and Hosey drifted together and compared notes. "Say, Milly," he confided, "they're all
from Wisconsin--or approximately; Michigan, and Minnesota, and Iowa, and around. Far's I can
make out there's only one New Yorker, really, in the whole caboodle of 'em."

"Which one?"

"That kind of plain little one over there--sensible looking, with the blue suit. I was talking
to her. She was born right here in New York, but she doesn't live here--that is, not in the
city. Lives in some place in the country, in a house."

A sort of look came into Mrs. Brewster's eyes. "Is that so? I'd like to talk to her, Hosey.
Take me over."

She did talk to the quiet little woman in the plain blue suit. And the quiet little woman said:
"Oh, dear, yes!" She ignored her r's fascinatingly, as New Yorkers do. "We live in Connecticut.
You see, you Wisconsin people have crowded us out of New York; no breathing space. Besides,
how can one live here? I mean to say--live. And then the children--it's no place for children,
grown up or otherwise. I love it--oh, yes, indeed. I love it. But it's too difficult."

Mrs. Brewster defended it like a true Westerner. "But if you have just a tiny apartment, with
a kitchenette--"

The New York woman laughed. There was nothing malicious about her. But she laughed. "I tried
it. There's one corner of my soul that's still wrinkled from the crushing. Everything in a
heap. Not to speak of the slavery of it. That--that deceitful, lying kitchenette."

This was the first woman who Mrs. Brewster had talked to--really talked to--since leaving Winnebago.
And she liked women. She missed them. At first she had eyed wonderingly, speculatively, the
women she saw on Fifth Avenue. Swathed luxuriously in precious pelts, marvellously coifed and
hatted, wearing the frailest of boots and hose, exhaling a mysterious, heady scent, they were
more like strange, exotic birds than women.

The clerks in the shops, too--they were so remote, so contemptuous. When she went into Gerretson's,
back home, Nellie Monahan was likely to say: "You've certainly had a lot of wear out of that
blue, Mrs. Brewster. Let's see, you've had it two--three years this spring? My land! Let me
show you our new taupes."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pa Brewster had taken to conversing with the doorman. That adamantine individual, unaccustomed
to being addressed as a human being, was startled at first, surly and distrustful. But he mellowed
under Hosey's simple and friendly advances. They became quite pals, these two--perhaps two
as lonely men as you could find in all lonely New York.

"I guess you ain't a New Yorker, huh?" Mike said.

"Me? No."

"Th' most of the folks in th' buildin' ain't."

"Ain't!" Hosea Brewster was startled into it. "They're artists, aren't they? Most of 'em?"

"No! Out-of-town folks, mostly, like you. West--Iowa an' Californy an' around there. Livin'
here, though. Seem t' like it better'n where they come from. I dunno."

Hosey Brewster took to eying them as Mrs. Brewster had eyed the women. He wondered about them,
these tight, trim men, rather short of breath, buttoned so snugly into their shining shoes
and their tailored clothes, with their necks bulging in a fold of fat above the back of their
white linen collars. He knew that he would never be like them. It wasn't his square-toed shoes
that made the difference, or his gray hat, or his baggy trousers. It was something inside him--something
he lacked, he thought. It never occurred to him that it was something he possessed that they
did not.

"Enjoying yourself, Milly?"

"I should say I am, father."

"That's good. No housework and responsibility to this, is there?"

"It's play."

She hated the toy gas stove, and the tiny ice chest, and the screen pantry. All her married
life she had kept house in a big, bounteous way: apples in barrels; butter in firkins; flour
in sacks; eggs in boxes; sugar in bins; cream in crocks. Sometimes she told herself, bitterly,
that it was easier to keep twelve rooms tidy and habitable than one combination kitchen-dining-and-living
room.

"Chops taste good, Hosey?"

"Grand. But you oughtn't to be cooking around like this. We'll eat out to-morrow night somewhere,
and go to a show."

"You're enjoying it, aren't you, Hosey, h'm?"

"It's the life, mother! It's the life!"

       *       *       *       *       *

His ruddy colour began to fade. He took to haunting department store kitchenware sections.
He would come home with a new kind of cream whipper, or a patent device for the bathroom. He
would tinker happily with this, driving a nail, adjusting a screw. At such times he was even
known to begin to whistle some scrap of a doleful tune such as he used to hum. But he would
change, quickly, into something lively. The price of butter, eggs, milk, cream, and the like
horrified his Wisconsin cold-storage sensibilities. He used often to go down to Fulton Market
before daylight and walk about among the stalls and shops, piled with tons of food of all kinds.
He would talk to the marketmen, and the buyers and grocers, and come away feeling almost happy
for a time.

Then, one day, with a sort of shock, he remembered a farmer he had known back home in Winnebago.
He knew the farmers for miles around, naturally, in his business. This man had been a steady
butter-and-egg acquaintance, one of the wealthy farmers in that prosperous Wisconsin farming
community. For his family's sake he had moved into town, a ruddy, rufous-bearded, clumping
fellow, intelligent, kindly. They had sold the farm with a fine profit and had taken a box-like
house on Franklin Street. He had nothing to do but enjoy himself. You saw him out on the porch
early, very early summer mornings.

You saw him ambling about the yard, poking at a weed here, a plant there. A terrible loneliness
was upon him; a loneliness for the soil he had deserted. And slowly, resistlessly, the soil
pulled at him with its black strength and its green tendrils down, down, until he ceased to
struggle and lay there clasped gently to her breast, the mistress he had thought to desert
and who had him again at last, and forever.

"I don't know what ailed him," his widow had said, weeping. "He just seemed to kind of pine away."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was one morning in April--one soft, golden April morning--when this memory had struck Hosey
Brewster. He had been down at Fulton Market. Something about the place--the dewy fresh vegetables,
the crates of eggs, the butter, the cheese--had brought such a surge of homesickness over him
as to amount to an actual nausea. Riding uptown in the Subway he had caught a glimpse of himself
in a slot-machine mirror. His face was pale and somehow shrunken. He looked at his hands. The
skin hung loose where the little pads of fat had plumped them out.

"Gosh!" he said. "Gosh, I--"

He thought, then, of the red-faced farmer who used to come clumping into the cold-storage warehouse
in his big boots and his buffalo coat. A great fear swept over him and left him weak and sick.

The chill grandeur of the studio-building foyer stabbed him. The glittering lift made him dizzy,
somehow, this morning. He shouldn't have gone out without some breakfast perhaps. He walked
down the flagged corridor softly; turned the key ever so cautiously. She might still be sleeping.
He turned the knob gently, gently; tiptoed in and, turning, fell over a heavy wooden object
that lay directly in his path in the dim little hall.

A barked shin. A good, round oath.

"Hosey! What's the matter? What--" She came running to him. She led him into the bright front room.

"What was that thing? A box or something, right there in front of the door. What the--"

"Oh, I'm so sorry, Hosey. You sometimes have breakfast downtown. I didn't know--"

Something in her voice--he stopped rubbing the injured shin to look up at her. Then he straightened
slowly, his mouth ludicrously open. Her head was bound in a white towel. Her skirt was pinned
back. Her sleeves were rolled up. Chairs, tables, rugs, ornaments, were huddled in a promiscuous
heap. Mrs. Hosea C. Brewster was cleaning house.

"Milly!" he began, sternly. "And that's just the thing you came here to get away from. If Pinky--"

"I didn't mean to, father. But when I got up this morning there was a letter--a letter from
the woman who owns this apartment, you know. She asked if I'd go to the hall closet--the one
she reserved for her own things, you know--and unlock it, and get out a box she told me about,
and have the hall boy express it to her. And I did, and--look!"

Limping a little he followed her. She turned on the light that hung in the closet. Boxes--pasteboard
boxes--each one bearing a cryptic pencilling on the end that stared out at you. "Drp Stud Win,"
said one; "Sum Slp Cov Bedrm," another; "Toil. Set & Pic Frms."

Mrs. Brewster turned to her husband, almost shamefacedly, and yet with a little air of defiance.
"It--I don't know--it made me--not homesick, Hosey. Not homesick, exactly; but--well, I guess
I'm not the only woman with a walnut streak in her modern make-up. Here's the woman--she came
to the door with her hat on, and yet--"

Truth--blinding, white-hot truth--burst in upon him. "Mother," he said--and he stood up, suddenly
robust, virile, alert--"mother, let's go home."

Mechanically she began to unpin the looped-back skirt. "When?"

"Now."

"But, Hosey! Pinky--this flat--until June--"

"Now! Unless you want to stay. Unless you like it here in this--this make-believe, double-barrelled,
duplex do-funny of a studio thing. Let's go home, mother. Let's go home--and breathe."

In Wisconsin you are likely to find snow in April--snow or slush. The Brewsters found both.
Yet on their way up from the station in 'Gene Buck's flivver taxi they beamed out at it as
if it were a carpet of daisies.

At the corner of Elm and Jackson streets Hosey Brewster stuck his head out of the window. "Stop
here a minute, will you, 'Gene?"

They stopped in front of Hengel's meat market, and Hosey went in. Mrs. Brewster leaned back
without comment.

Inside the shop. "Well, I see you're back from the East," said Aug Hengel.

"Yep."

"We thought you'd given us the go-by, you stayed away so long."

"No, sir-ree! Say, Aug, give me that piece of bacon--the big piece. And send me up some corned
beef to-morrow for corned beef and cabbage. I'll take a steak along for to-night. Oh, about
four pounds. That's right."

It seemed to him that nothing less than a side of beef could take out of his mouth the taste
of those fiddling little lamb chops and the restaurant fare of the past six months.

       *       *       *       *       *

All through the winter Fred had kept up a little heat in the house, with an eye to frozen water
pipes. But there was a chill upon the place as they opened the door now. It was late afternoon.
The house was very still, with the stillness of a dwelling that has long been uninhabited.
The two stood there a moment, peering into the darkened rooms. Then Hosea Brewster strode forward,
jerked up this curtain, that curtain with a sharp snap, flap! He stamped his feet to rid them
of slush. He took off his hat and threw it high in the air and opened his arms wide and emitted
a whoop of sheer joy and relief.

"Welcome home! Home!"

She clung to him. "Oh, Hosey, isn't it wonderful? How big it looks! Huge!"

"Land, yes." He strode from hall to dining room, from kitchen to library. "I know how a jack-in-the-box
feels when the lid's opened. No wonder it grins and throws out its arms."

They did little talking after that. By five o'clock he was down in the cellar. She heard him
making a great sound of rattling and bumping and shaking and pounding and shovelling. She smelled
the acrid odour of his stubby black pipe.

"Hosey!"--from the top of the cellar stairs. "Hosey, bring up a can of preserves when you come."

"What?"

"Can of preserves."

"What kind?"

"Any kind you like."

"Can I have two kinds?"

He brought up quince marmalade and her choicest damson plums. He put them down on the kitchen
table and looked around, spatting his hands together briskly to rid them of dust. "Sh's burning
pretty good now. That Fred! Don't any more know how to handle a boiler than a baby does. Is
the house getting warmer?"

He clumped into the dining room, through the butler's pantry, but he was back again in a wink,
his eyes round. "Why, say, mother! You've got out the best dishes, and the silver, and the
candles, and all. And the tablecloth with the do-dads on it. Why--"

"I know it." She opened the oven door, took out a pan of biscuits and slid it deftly to one
side. "It seems as if I can't spread enough. I'm going to use the biggest platters, and I've
put two extra boards in the table. It's big enough to seat ten. I want everything big, somehow.
I've cooked enough potatoes for a regiment, and I know it's wasteful, and I don't care. I'll
eat in my kitchen apron, if you'll keep on your overalls. Come on."

He cut into the steak--a great, thick slice. He knew she could never eat it, and she knew she
could never eat it. But she did eat it all, ecstatically. And in a sort of ecstatic Nirvana
the quiet and vastness and peace of the big old frame house settled down upon them.

The telephone in the hall rang startlingly, unexpectedly.

"Let me go, Milly."

"But who in the world! Nobody knows we're--"

He was at the telephone. "Who? Who? Oh." He turned: "It's Miz' Merz. She says her little Minnie
went by at six and saw a light in the house. She--Hello! What?... She says she wants to know
if she's to save time for you at the end of the month for the April cleaning."

Mrs. Brewster took the receiver from him: "The twenty-fifth, as usual, Miz' Merz. The twenty-fifth,
as usual. The attic must be a sight."

OLD LADY MANDLE

Old lady Mandle was a queen. Her demesne, undisputed, was a six-room flat on South Park Avenue,
Chicago. Her faithful servitress was Anna, an ancient person of Polish nativity, bad teeth,
and a cunning hand at cookery. Not so cunning, however, but that old lady Mandle's was more
artful still in such matters as meat-soups, broad noodles, fish with egg sauce, and the like.
As ladies-in-waiting, flattering yet jealous, admiring though resentful, she had Mrs. Lamb,
Mrs. Brunswick, and Mrs. Wormser, themselves old ladies and erstwhile queens, now deposed.
And the crown jewel in old lady Mandle's diadem was my son Hugo.

Mrs. Mandle was not only a queen but a spoiled old lady. And not only a spoiled old lady but
a confessedly spoiled old lady. Bridling and wagging her white head she admitted her pampered
state. It was less an admission than a boast. Her son Hugo had spoiled her. This, too, she
acknowledged. "My son Hugo spoils me," she would say, and there was no proper humbleness in
her voice. Though he was her only son she never spoke of him merely as "Hugo," or "My son,"
but always as "My son Hugo." She rolled the three words on her tongue as though they were delicious
morsels from which she would extract all possible savour and sweetness. And when she did this
you could almost hear the click of the stiffening spines of Mrs. Lamb, Mrs. Brunswick, and
Mrs. Wormser. For they envied her her son Hugo, and resented him as only three old ladies could
who were living, tolerated and dependent, with their married sons and their sons' wives.

Any pleasant summer afternoon at four o'clock you might have seen Mrs. Mandle holding court.
The four old women sat, a decent black silk row, on a shady bench in Washington Park (near
the refectory and afternoon coffee). Three of them complained about their daughters-in-law.
One of them bragged about her son. Adjective crowding adjective, pride in her voice, majesty
in her mien, she bragged about my son Hugo.

My son Hugo had no wife. Not only that, Hugo Mandle, at forty, had no thought of marrying.
Not that there was anything austere or saturnine about Hugo. He made you think, somehow, of
a cherubic, jovial monk. It may have been his rosy rotundity, or, perhaps, the way in which
his thinning hair vanished altogether at the top of his head, so as to form a tonsure. Hugo
Mandle, kindly, generous, shrewd, spoiled his old mother in the way in which women of seventy,
whose middle life has been hard, like to be spoiled. First of all, of course, she reigned unchecked
over the South Park Avenue flat. She quarrelled wholesomely and regularly with Polish Anna.
Alternately she threatened Anna with dismissal and Anna threatened Ma Mandle with impending
departure. This had been going on, comfortably, for fifteen years. Ma Mandle held the purse
and her son filled it. Hugo paid everything from the rent to the iceman, and this without once
making his mother feel a beneficiary. She possessed an infinitesimal income of her own, left
her out of the ruins of her dead husband's money, but this Hugo always waved aside did she
essay to pay for her own movie ticket or an ice cream soda. "Now, now! None of that, Ma. Your
money's no good to-night."

When he returned from a New York business trip he usually brought her two gifts, one practical,
the other absurd. She kissed him for the first and scolded him for the second, but it was the
absurdity, fashioned of lace, or silk, or fragile stuff, that she pridefully displayed to her
friends.

"Look what my son Hugo brought me. I should wear a thing like that in my old days. But it's
beautiful anyway, h'm? He's got taste, my son Hugo."

In the cool of the evening you saw them taking a slow and solemn walk together, his hand on
her arm. He surprised her with matinée tickets in pairs, telling her to treat one of her friends.
On Anna's absent Thursdays he always offered to take dinner downtown. He brought her pound
boxes of candy tied with sly loops and bands of gay satin ribbon which she carefully rolled
and tucked away in a drawer. He praised her cooking, and teased her with elephantine playfulness,
and told her that she looked like a chicken in that hat. Oh, yes, indeed! Mrs. Mandle was a
spoiled old lady.

At half-past one she always prepared to take her nap in the quiet of her neat flat. She would
select a plump, after-lunch chocolate from the box in her left-hand bureau drawer, take off
her shoes, and settle her old frame in comfort. No noisy grandchildren to disturb her rest.
No fault-finding daughter-in-law to bustle her out of the way. The sounds that Anna made, moving
about in the kitchen at the far end of the long hall, were the subdued homely swishings and
brushings that lulled and soothed rather than irritated. At half-past two she rose, refreshed,
dressed herself in her dotted swiss with its rows of val, or in black silk, modish both. She
was, in fact, a modish old lady as were her three friends. They were not the ultra-modern type
of old lady who at sixty apes sixteen. They were neat and rather tart-tongued septuagenarians,
guiltless of artifice. Their soft white hair was dressed neatly and craftily so as to conceal
the thinning spots that revealed the pink scalp beneath. Their corsets and their stomachs were
too high, perhaps, for fashion, and their heavy brooches and chains and rings appeared clumsy
when compared to the hoar-frost tracery of the platinumsmith's exquisite art. But their skirts
had pleats when pleated skirts were worn, and their sleeves were snug when snug sleeves were
decreed. They were inclined to cling over-long to a favourite leather reticule, scuffed and
shapeless as an old shoe, but they could hold their own at bridge on a rainy afternoon. In
matters of material and cut Mrs. Mandle triumphed. Her lace was likely to be real where that
of the other three was imitation.

So there they sat on a park bench in the pleasant afternoon air, filling their lives with emptiness.
They had married, and brought children into the world; sacrificed for them, managed a household,
been widowed. They represented magnificent achievement, those four old women, though they themselves
did not know it. They had come up the long hill, reached its apex, and come down. Their journey
was over and yet they sat by the roadside. They knew that which could have helped younger travellers
over the next hill, but those fleet-footed ones pressed on, wanting none of their wisdom. Ma
Mandle alone still moved. She still queened it over her own household; she alone still had
the delightful task of making a man comfortable. If the world passed them by as they sat there
it did not pass unscathed. Their shrewd old eyes regarded the panorama, undeceived. They did
not try to keep up with the procession, but they derived a sly amusement and entertainment
from their observation of the modes and manners of this amazing day and age. Perhaps it was
well that this plump matron in the over-tight skirt or that miss mincing on four-inch heels
could not hear the caustic comment of the white-haired four sitting so mildly on the bench
at the side of the path.

Their talk, stray as it might, always came back to two subjects. They seemed never to tire
of them. Three talked of their daughters-in-law, and bitterness rasped their throats. One talked
of her son, and her voice was unctuous with pride.

"My son's wife--" one of the three would begin. There was something terribly significant in
the mock respect with which she uttered the title.

"If I had ever thought," Mrs. Brunswick would say, shaking her head, "if I had ever thought
that I would live to see the day when I had to depend on strangers for my comfort, I would
have wished myself dead."

"You wouldn't call your son a stranger, Mrs. Brunswick!" in shocked tones from Mrs. Mandle.

"A stranger has got more consideration. I count for nothing. Less than nothing. I'm in the
way. I don't interfere in that household. I see enough, and I hear enough, but I say nothing.
My son's wife, she says it all."

A silence, thoughtful, brooding. Then, from Mrs. Wormser: "What good do you have of your children?
They grow up, and what do you have of them?"

More shaking of heads, and a dark murmur about the advisability of an Old People's Home as
a refuge. Then:

"My son Hugo said only yesterday, 'Ma,' he said, 'when it comes to housekeeping you could teach
them all something, believe me. Why,' he says, 'if I was to try and get a cup of coffee like
this in a restaurant--well, you couldn't get it in a restaurant, that's all. You couldn't get
it in any hotel, Michigan Avenue or I don't care where.'"

Goaded, Mrs. Lamb would look up from her knitting. "Mark my words, he'll marry yet." She was
a sallow, lively woman, her hair still markedly streaked with black. Her rheumatism-twisted
fingers were always grotesquely busy with some handiwork, and the finished product was a marvel
of perfection.

Mrs. Wormser, plump, placid, agreed. "That's the kind always marries late. And they get it
the worst. Say, my son was no spring chicken, either, when he married. And you would think
the sun rises and sets in his wife. Well, I suppose it's only natural. But you wait."

"Some girl is going to have a snap." Mrs. Brunswick, eager, peering, a trifle vindictive, offered
final opinion. "The girls aren't going to let a boy like your Hugo get away. Not nowadays,
the way they run after them like crazy. All they think about is dress and a good time."

The three smiled grimly. Ma Mandle smiled, too, a little nervously, her fingers creasing and
uncreasing a fold of her black silk skirt as she made airy answer: "If I've said once I've
said a million times to my son Hugo, 'Hugo, why don't you pick out some nice girl and settle
down? I won't be here always.' And he says, 'Getting tired of me, are you, Ma? I guess maybe
you're looking for a younger fellow.' Only last night I said, at the table, 'Hugo, when are
you going to get married?' And he laughed. 'When I find somebody that can cook dumplings like
these. Pass me another, Ma'."

"That's all very well," said Mrs. Wormser.

"But when the right one comes along he won't know dumplings from mud."

"Oh, a man of forty isn't such a--"

"He's just like a man of twenty-five--only worse."

Mrs. Mandle would rise, abruptly. "Well, I guess you all know my son Hugo better than his own
mother. How about a cup of coffee, ladies?"

They would proceed solemnly and eagerly to the columned coolness of the park refectory where
they would drink their thick, creamy coffee. They never knew, perhaps, how keenly they counted
on that cup of coffee, or how hungrily they drank it. Their minds, unconsciously, were definitely
fixed on the four-o'clock drink that stimulated the old nerves.

Life had not always been so plumply upholstered for old lady Mandle. She had known its sharp
corners and cruel edges. At twenty-three, a strong, healthy, fun-loving girl, she had married
Herman Mandle, a dour man twenty-two years her senior. In their twenty-five years of married
life together Hattie Mandle never had had a five-cent piece that she could call her own. Her
husband was reputed to be wealthy, and probably was, according to the standards of that day.
There were three children: Etta, the oldest; a second child, a girl, who died; and Hugo. Her
husband's miserliness, and the grind of the planning, scheming, and contriving necessary to
clothe and feed her two children would have crushed the spirit of many women. But hard and
glum as her old husband was he never quite succeeded in subduing her courage or her love of
fun. The habit of heart-breaking economy clung to her, however, even when days of plenty became
hers. It showed in little hoarding ways: in the saving of burned matches, of bits of ribbon,
of scraps of food, of the very furniture and linen, as though, when these were gone, no more
would follow.

Ten years after her marriage her husband retired from active business. He busied himself now
with his real estate, with mysterious papers, documents, agents. He was forever poking around
the house at hours when a household should be manless, grumbling about the waste where there
was none, peering into bread boxes, prying into corners never meant for masculine eyes. Etta,
the girl, was like him, sharp-nosed, ferret-faced, stingy. The mother and the boy turned to
each other. In a wordless way they grew very close, those two. It was as if they were silently
matched against the father and daughter.

It was a queer household, brooding, sinister, like something created in a Brontë brain. The
two children were twenty-four and twenty-two when the financial avalanche of '93 thundered
across the continent sweeping Herman Handle, a mere speck, into the débris. Stocks and bonds
and real estate became paper, with paper value. He clawed about with frantic, clutching fingers
but his voice was lost in the shrieks of thousands more hopelessly hurt. You saw him sitting
for hours together with a black tin box in front of him, pawing over papers, scribbling down
figures, muttering. The bleak future that confronted them had little of terror for Hattie Mandle.
It presented no contrast with the bleakness of the past. On the day that she came upon him,
his head fallen at a curious angle against the black tin box, his hands, asprawl, clutching
the papers that strewed the table, she was appalled, not at what she found, but at the leap
her heart gave at what she found. Herman Handle's sudden death was one of the least of the
tragedies that trailed in the wake of the devastating panic.

Thus it was that Hugo Handle, at twenty-three, became the head of a household. He did not need
to seek work. From the time he was seventeen he had been employed in a large china-importing
house, starting as a stock boy. Brought up under the harsh circumstances of Hugo's youth, a
boy becomes food for the reformatory or takes on the seriousness and responsibility of middle
age. In Hugo's case the second was true. From his father he had inherited a mathematical mind
and a sense of material values. From his mother, a certain patience and courage, though he
never attained her iron indomitability.

It had been a terrific struggle. His salary at twenty-three was most modest, but he was getting
on. He intended to be a buyer, some day, and take trips abroad to the great Austrian and French
and English china houses.

The day after the funeral he said to his mother, "Well, now we've got to get Etta married.
But married well. Somebody who'll take care of her."

"You're a good son, Hugo," Mrs. Handle had said.

Hugo shook his head. "It isn't that. If she's comfortable and happy--or as happy as she knows
how to be--she'll never come back. That's what I want. There's debts to pay, too. But I guess
we'll get along."

They did get along, but at snail's pace. There followed five years of economy so rigid as to
make the past seem profligate. Etta, the acid-tongued, the ferret-faced, was not the sort to
go off without the impetus of a dowry. The man for Etta, the shrew, must be kindly, long-suffering,
subdued--and in need of a start. He was. They managed a very decent trousseau and the miracle
of five thousand dollars in cash. Every stitch in the trousseau and every penny in the dowry
represented incredible sacrifice and self-denial on the part of mother and brother. Etta went
off to her new home in Pittsburg with her husband. She had expressed thanks for nothing and
had bickered with her mother to the last, but even Hugo knew that her suit and hat and gloves
and shoes were right. She was almost handsome in them, the unwonted flush of excitement colouring
her cheeks, brightening her eyes.

The next day Hugo came home with a new hat for his mother, a four-pound steak, and the announcement
that he was going to take music lessons. A new era had begun in the life of Ma Mandle.

Two people, no matter how far apart in years or tastes, cannot struggle side by side, like
that, in a common cause, without forging between them a bond indissoluble. Hugo, at twenty-eight,
had the serious mien of a man of forty. At forty he was to revert to his slighted twenty-eight,
but he did not know that then. His music lessons were his one protest against a beauty-starved
youth. He played rather surprisingly well the cheap music of the day, waggling his head (already
threatening baldness) in a professional vaudeville manner and squinting up through his cigar
smoke, happily. His mother, seated in the room, sewing, would say, "Play that again, Hugo.
That's beautiful. What's the name of that?" He would tell her, for the dozenth time, and play
it over, she humming, off-key, in his wake. The relation between them was more than that of
mother and son. It was a complex thing that had in it something conjugal. When Hugo kissed
his mother with a resounding smack and assured her that she looked like a kid she would push
him away with little futile shoves, pat her hair into place, and pretend annoyance. "Go away,
you big rough thing!" she would cry. But all unconsciously she got from it a thrill that her
husband's withered kisses had never given her.

Twelve years had passed since Etta's marriage. Hugo's salary was a comfortable thing now, even
in these days of soaring prices. The habit of economy, so long a necessity, had become almost
a vice in old lady Mandle. Hugo, with the elasticity of younger years, learned to spend freely,
but his mother's thrift and shrewdness automatically swelled his savings. When he was on the
road, as he sometimes was for weeks at a time, she spent only a tithe of the generous sum he
left with her. She and Anna ate those sketchy meals that obtain in a manless household. When
Hugo was home the table was abundant and even choice, though Ma Mandle often went blocks out
of her way to save three cents on a bunch of new beets. So strong is usage. She would no more
have wasted his money than she would have knifed him in the dark. She ran the household capably,
but her way was the old-fashioned way. Sometimes Hugo used to protest, aghast at some petty
act of parsimony.

"But, Ma, what do you want to scrimp like that for! You're the worst tightwad I ever saw. Here,
take this ten and blow it. You're worse than the squirrels in the park, darned if you ain't!"

She couldn't resist the ten. Neither could she resist showing it, next day, to Mrs. Brunswick,
Mrs. Lamb, and Mrs. Wormser. "How my son Hugo spoils me! He takes out a ten-dollar bill, and
he stuffs it into my hand and says 'Ma, you're the worst tightwad I ever saw.'" She laughed
contentedly. But she did not blow the ten. As she grew older Hugo regularly lied to her about
the price of theatre tickets, dainties, articles of dress, railway fares, luxuries. Her credulity
increased with age, shrewd though she naturally was.

It was a second blooming for Ma Mandle. When he surprised her with an evening at the theatre
she would fuss before her mirror for a full hour. "Some gal!" Hugo would shout when finally
she emerged. "Everybody'll be asking who the old man is you're out with. First thing I know
I'll have a police-woman after me for going around with a chicken."

"Don't talk foolishness." But she would flush like a bride. She liked a musical comedy with
a lot of girls in it and a good-looking tenor. Next day you would hear her humming the catch-tune
in an airy falsetto. Sometimes she wondered about him. She was, after all, a rather wise old
lady, and she knew something of men. She had a secret horror of his becoming what she called fast.

"Why don't you take out some nice young girl instead of an old woman like me, Hugo? Any girl
would be only too glad." But in her heart was a dread. She thought of Mrs. Lamb, Mrs. Wormser,
and Mrs. Brunswick.

So they had gone on, year after year, in the comfortable flat on South Park Avenue. A pleasant
thing, life.

And then Hugo married, suddenly, breathlessly, as a man of forty does.

Afterward, Ma Mandle could recall almost nothing from which she might have taken warning. That
was because he had said so little. She remembered that he had come home to dinner one evening
and had spoken admiringly of a woman buyer from Omaha. He did not often speak of business.

"She buys like a man," he had said at dinner. "I never saw anything like it. Knew what she
wanted and got it. She bought all my best numbers at rock bottom. I sold her a four-figure
bill in half an hour. And no fuss. Everything right to the point and when I asked her out to
dinner she turned me down. Good looking, too. She's coming in again to-morrow for novelties."

Ma Mandle didn't even recall hearing her name until the knife descended. Hugo played the piano
a great deal all that week, after dinner. Sentimental things, with a minor wail in the chorus.
Smoked a good deal, too. Twice he spent a full hour in dressing, whistling absent-mindedly
during the process and leaving his necktie rack looking like a nest of angry pythons when he
went out, without saying where he was going. The following week he didn't touch the piano and
took long walks in Washington Park, alone, after ten. He seemed uninterested in his meals.
Usually he praised this dish, or that.

"How do you like the blueberry pie, Hugo?"

"'S all right." And declined a second piece.

The third week he went West on business. When he came home he dropped his bag in the hall,
strode into his mother's bedroom, and stood before her like a schoolboy. "Lil and I are going
to be married," he said.

Ma Mandle had looked up at him, her face a blank. "Lil?"

"Sure. I told you all about her." He hadn't. He had merely thought about her, for three weeks,
to the exclusion of everything else. "Ma, you'll love her. She knows all about you. She's the
grandest girl in the world. Say, I don't know why she ever fell for a dub like me. Well, don't
look so stunned. I guess you kind of suspicioned, huh?"

"But who--?"

"I never thought she'd look at me. Earned her own good salary, and strictly business, but she's
a real woman. Says she wants her own home an--'n everything. Says every normal woman does. Says--"

Ad lib.

They were married the following month.

Hugo sub-leased the flat on South Park and took an eight-room apartment farther east. Ma Mandle's
red and green plush parlour pieces, and her mahogany rockers, and her rubber plant, and the
fern, and the can of grapefruit pits that she and Anna had planted and that had come up, miraculously,
in the form of shiny, thick little green leaves, all were swept away in the upheaval that followed.
Gone, too, was Polish Anna, with her damp calico and her ubiquitous pail and dripping rag and
her gutturals. In her place was a trim Swede who wore white kid shoes in the afternoon and
gray dresses and cob-web aprons. The sight of the neat Swede sitting in her room at two-thirty
in the afternoon, tatting, never failed to fill Ma Mandle with a dumb fury. Anna had been an
all-day scrubber.

But Lil. Hugo thought her very beautiful, which she was not. A plump, voluble, full-bosomed
woman, exquisitely neat, with a clear, firm skin, bright brown eyes, an unerring instinct for
clothes, and a shrewd business head. Hugo's devotion amounted to worship.

He used to watch her at her toilette in their rose and black mahogany front bedroom. Her plump
white shoulders gleamed from pink satin straps. She smelled pleasantly of sachet and a certain
heady scent she affected. Seated before the mirror, she stared steadily at herself with a concentration
such as an artist bestows upon a work that depends, for its perfection, upon nuances of light
and shade. Everything about her shone and glittered. Her pink nails were like polished coral.
Her hair gleamed in smooth undulations, not a strand out of place. Her skin was clear and smooth
as a baby's. Her hands were plump and white. She was always getting what she called a facial,
from which process she would emerge looking pinker and creamier than ever. Lil knew when camisoles
were edged with filet, and when with Irish. Instinctively she sensed when taffeta was to be
superseded by foulard. The contents of her scented bureau drawers needed only a dab of whipped
cream on top to look as if they might have been eaten as something soufflé.

"How do I look in it, Hugo? Do you like it?" was a question that rose daily to her lips. A
new hat, or frock, or collar, or negligée. Not that she was unduly extravagant. She knew values,
and profited by her knowledge.

"Le's see. Turn around. It looks great on you. Yep. That's all right."

He liked to fancy himself a connoisseur in women's clothes and to prove it he sometimes brought
home an article of feminine apparel glimpsed in a shop window or showcase, but Lil soon put
a stop to that. She had her own ideas on clothes. He turned to jewellery. On Lil's silken bosom
reposed a diamond-and-platinum pin the size and general contour of a fish-knife. She had a
dinner ring that crowded the second knuckle, and on her plump wrist sparkled an oblong so encrusted
with diamonds that its utilitarian dial was almost lost.

It wasn't a one-sided devotion, however. Lil knew much about men, and she had an instinct for
making them comfortable. It is a gift that makes up for myriad minor shortcomings. She had
a way of laying his clean things out on the bed--fresh linen, clean white socks (Hugo was addicted
to white socks and tan, low-cut shoes), silk shirt, immaculate handkerchief. When he came in
at the end of a hard day downtown--hot, fagged, sticky--she saw to it that the bathroom was
his own for an hour so that he could bathe, shave, powder, dress, and emerge refreshed to eat
his good dinner in comfort. Lil was always waiting for him cool, interested, sweet-smelling.

When she said, "How's business, lover?" she really wanted to know. More than that, when he
told her she understood, having herself been so long in the game. She gave him shrewd advice,
too, so shrewdly administered that he never realized he had been advised, and so, man-like,
could never resent it.

Ma Mandle's reign was over.

To Mrs. Lamb, Mrs. Brunswick, and Mrs. Wormser Ma Mandle lied magnificently. Their eager, merciless
questions pierced her like knives, but she made placid answer: "Young folks are young folks.
They do things different. I got my way. My son's wife has got hers." Their quick ears caught
the familiar phrase.

"It's hard, just the same," Mrs. Wormser insisted, "after you've been boss all these years
to have somebody else step in and shove you out of the way. Don't I know!"

"I'm glad to have a little rest. Marketing and housekeeping nowadays is no snap, with the prices
what they are. Anybody that wants the pleasure is welcome."

But they knew, the three. There was, in Ma Mandle's tone, a hollow pretence that deceived no
one. They knew, and she knew that they knew. She was even as they were, a drinker of the hemlock
cup, an eater of ashes.

Hugo Mandle was happier and more comfortable than he had ever been in his life. It wasn't merely
his love for Lil, and her love for him that made him happy. Lil set a good table, though perhaps
it was not as bounteous as his mother's had been. His food, somehow, seemed to agree with him
better than it used to. It was because Lil selected her provisions with an eye to their building
value, and to Hugo's figure. She told him he was getting too fat, and showed him where, and
Hugo agreed with her and took off twenty-five burdensome pounds, but Ma Mandle fought every
ounce of it.

"You'll weaken yourself, Hugo! Eat! How can a man work and not eat? I never heard of such a
thing. Fads!"

But these were purely physical things. It was a certain mental relaxation that Hugo enjoyed,
though he did not definitely know it. He only knew that Lil seemed, somehow, to understand.
For years his mother had trailed after him, putting away things that he wanted left out, tidying
that which he preferred left in seeming disorder. Lil seemed miraculously to understand about
those things. He liked, for example, a certain grimy, gritty old rag with which he was wont
to polish his golf clubs. It was caked with dirt, and most disreputable, but it was of just
the right material, or weight, or size, or something, and he had for it the unreasoning affection
that a child has for a tattered rag doll among a whole family of golden-haired, blue-eyed beauties.
Ma Mandle, tidying up, used to throw away that rag in horror. Sometimes he would rescue it,
crusted as it was with sand and mud and scouring dust. Sometimes he would have to train in
a new rag, and it was never as good as the old. Lil understood about that rag, and approved
of it. For that matter, she had a rag of her own which she used to remove cold cream from her
face and throat. It was a clean enough bit of soft cloth to start with, but she clung to it
as an actress often does, until it was smeared with the pink of makeup and the black of Chicago
soot. She used to search remote corners of it for an inch of unused, unsmeared space. Lil knew
about not talking when you wanted to read the paper, too. Ma Mandle, at breakfast, had always
had a long and intricate story to tell about the milkman, or the strawberries that she had
got the day before and that had spoiled overnight in the icebox. A shame! Sometimes he had
wanted to say, "Let me read my paper in peace, won't you!" But he never had. Now it was Lil
who listened patiently to Ma Mandle's small grievances, and Hugo was left free to peruse the
head-lines.

If you had told Ma Mandle that she was doing her best to ruin the life of the one person she
loved best in all the world she would have told you that you were insane. If you had told her
that she was jealous she would have denied it, furiously. But both were true.

When Hugo brought his wife a gift he brought one for his mother as well.

"You don't need to think you have to bring your old mother anything," she would say, unreasonably.

"Didn't I always bring you something, Ma?"

If seventy can be said to sulk, Ma Mandle sulked.

Lil, on her way to market in the morning, was a pleasant sight, trim, well-shod, immaculate.
Ma, whose marketing costume had always been neat but sketchy, would eye her disapprovingly.
"Are you going out?"

"Just to market. I thought I'd start early, before everything was picked over."

"Oh--to market! I thought you were going to a party, you're so dressy."

In the beginning Lil had offered to allow Ma Mandle to continue with the marketing but Mrs.
Mandle had declined, acidly. "Oh, no," she had said. "This is your household now."

But she never failed to inspect the groceries as they lay on the kitchen table after delivery.
She would press a wise and disdainful thumb into a head of lettuce; poke a pot-roast with disapproving
finger; turn a plump chicken over and thump it down with a look that was pregnant with meaning.

Ma Mandle disapproved of many things. Of Lil's silken, lacy lingerie; of her social activities;
of what she termed her wastefulness. Lil wore the fewest possible undergarments, according
to the fashion of the day, and she worried, good-naturedly, about additional plumpness that
was the result of leisure and of rich food. She was addicted to afternoon parties at the homes
of married women of her own age and station--pretty, well-dressed, over-indulged women who
regularly ate too much. They served a mayonnaise chicken salad, and little hot buttery biscuits,
and strong coffee with sugar and cream, and there were dishes of salted almonds, and great,
shining, oily, black ripe olives, and a heavy, rich dessert. When she came home she ate nothing.

"I couldn't eat a bite of dinner," she would say. "Let me tell you what we had." She would
come to the table in one of her silken, lace-bedecked teagowns and talk animatedly to Hugo
while he ate his dinner and eyed her appreciatively as she sat there leaning one elbow on the
cloth, the sleeve fallen back so that you saw her plump white forearm. She kept her clear,
rosy skin in spite of the pastry and sweets and the indolent life, and even the layers of powder
with which she was forever dabbing her face had not coarsened its texture.

Hugo, man-like, was unconscious of the undercurrent of animosity between the two women. He
was very happy. He only knew that Lil understood about cigar ashes; that she didn't mind if
a pillow wasn't plumped and patted after his Sunday nap on the davenport; that she never complained
to him about the shortcomings of the little Swede, as Ma Mandle had about Polish Anna. Even
at house-cleaning time, which Ma Mandle had always treated as a scourge, things were as smooth-running
and peaceful as at ordinary times. Just a little bare, perhaps, as to floors, and smelling
of cleanliness. Lil applied businesslike methods to the conduct of her house, and they were
successful in spite of Ma Mandle's steady efforts to block them. Old lady Mandle did not mean
to be cruel. She only thought that she was protecting her son's interests. She did not know
that the wise men had a definite name for the mental processes which caused her, perversely,
to do just the thing which she knew she should not do.

Hugo and Lil went out a great deal in the evening. They liked the theatre, restaurant life,
gayety. Hugo learned to dance and became marvellously expert at it, as does your fat man.

"Come on and go out with us this evening, Mother," Lil would say.

"Sure!" Hugo would agree, heartily. "Come along, Ma. We'll show you some night life."

"I don't want to go," Ma Mandle would mutter. "I'm better off at home. You enjoy yourself better
without an old woman dragging along."

That being true, they vowed it was not, and renewed their urging. In the end she went, grudgingly.
But her old eyes would droop; the late supper would disagree with her; the noise, the music,
the laughter, and shrill talk bewildered her. She did not understand the banter, and resented it.

Next day, in the park, she would boast of her life of gayety to the vaguely suspicious three.

Later she refused to go out with them. She stayed in her room a good deal, fussing about, arranging
bureau drawers already geometrically precise, winding endless old ribbons, ripping the trimming
off hats long passé and re-trimming them with odds and ends and scraps of feathers and flowers.

Hugo and Lil used to ask her to go with them to the movies, but they liked the second show
at eight-thirty while she preferred the earlier one at seven. She grew sleepy early, though
she often lay awake for hours after composing herself for sleep. She would watch the picture
absorbedly, but when she stepped, blinking, into the bright glare of Fifty-third Street, she
always had a sense of let-down, of depression.

A wise old lady of seventy, who could not apply her wisdom for her own good. A rather lonely
old lady, with hardening arteries and a dilating heart. An increasingly fault-finding old lady.
Even Hugo began to notice it. She would wait for him to come home and then, motioning him mysteriously
into her own room, would pour a tale of fancied insult into his ear.

"I ran a household and brought up a family before she was born. I don't have to be told what's
what. I may be an old woman but I'm not so old that I can sit and let my own son be made a
fool of. One girl isn't enough, she's got to have a wash woman. And now a wash woman isn't
enough she's got to have a woman to clean one day a week."

An hour later, from the front bedroom, where Hugo was dressing, would come the low murmur of
conversation. Lil had reached the complaining point, goaded by much repetition.

The attitude of the two women distressed and bewildered Hugo. He was a simple soul, and this
was a complex situation. His mind leaped from mother to wife, and back again, joltingly. After
all, one woman at a time is all that any man can handle successfully.

"What's got into you women folks!" he would say. "Always quarrelling. Why can't you get along."

One night after dinner Lil said, quite innocently, "Mother, we haven't a decent picture of
you. Why don't you have one taken? In your black lace."

Old lady Mandle broke into sudden fury. "I guess you think I'm going to die! A picture to put
on the piano after I'm gone, huh? 'That's my dear mother that's gone.' Well, I don't have any
picture taken. You can think of me the way I was when I was alive."

The thing grew and swelled and took on bitterness as it progressed. Lil's face grew strangely
flushed and little veins stood out on her temples. All the pent-up bitterness that had been
seething in Ma Mandle's mind broke bounds now, and welled to her lips. Accusation, denial;
vituperation, retort.

"You'll be happy when I'm gone."

"If I am it's your fault."

"It's the ones that are used to nothing that always want the most. They don't know where to
stop. When you were working in Omaha--"

"The salary I gave up to marry your son was more money than you ever saw."

And through it all, like a leit-motiv, ran Hugo's attempt at pacification: "Now, Ma! Don't,
Lil. You'll only excite yourself. What's got into you two women?"

It was after dinner. In the end Ma Mandle slammed out of the house, hatless. Her old legs were
trembling. Her hands shook. It was a hot June night. She felt as if she were burning up. In
her frantic mind there was even thought of self-destruction. There were thousands of motor
cars streaming by. The glare of their lamps and the smell of the gasoline blinded and stifled
her. Once, at a crossing, she almost stumbled in front of an on-rushing car. The curses of
the startled driver sounded in her terrified ears after she had made the opposite curb in a
frantic bound. She walked on and on for what seemed to her to be a long time, with plodding,
heavy step. She was not conscious of being tired. She came to a park bench and sat down, feeling
very abused, and lonely and agonized. This was what she had come to in her old days. It was
for this you bore children, and brought them up and sacrificed for them. How right they were--Mrs.
Lamb, Mrs. Brunswick, and Mrs. Wormser. Useless. Unconsidered. In the way.

By degrees she grew calmer. Her brain cooled as her fevered old body lost the heat of anger.
Lil had looked kind of sick. Perhaps ... and how worried Hugo had looked....

Feeling suddenly impelled she got up from the bench and started toward home. Her walk, which
had seemed interminable, had really lasted scarcely more than half an hour. She had sat in
the park scarcely fifteen minutes. Altogether her flight had been, perhaps, an hour in duration.

She had her latchkey in her pocket. She opened the door softly. The place was in darkness.
Voices from the front bedroom, and the sound of someone sobbing, as though spent. Old lady
Mandle's face hardened again. The door of the front bedroom was closed. Plotting against her!
She crouched there in the hall, listening. Lil's voice, hoarse with sobs.

"I've tried and tried. But she hates me. Nothing I do suits her. If it wasn't for the baby
coming sometimes I think I'd--"

"You're just nervous and excited, Lil. It'll come out all right. She's an old lady--"

"I know it. I know it. I've said that a million times in the last year and a half. But that
doesn't excuse everything, does it? Is that any reason why she should spoil our lives? It isn't
fair. It isn't fair!"

"Sh! Don't cry like that, dear. Don't! You'll only make yourself sick."

Her sobs again, racking, choking, and the gentle murmur of his soothing endearments. Then,
unexpectedly, a little, high-pitched laugh through the tears.

"No, I'm not hysterical. I--it just struck me funny. I was just wondering if I might be like
that. When I grow old, and my son marries, maybe I'll think everything his wife does is wrong.
I suppose if we love them too much we really harm them. I suppose--"

"Oh, it's going to be a son, is it?"

"Yes."

Another silence. Then: "Come, dear. Bathe your poor eyes. You're all worn out from crying.
Why, sweetheart, I don't believe I ever saw you cry before."

"I know it. I feel better now. I wish crying could make it all right. I'm sorry. She's so old,
dear. That's the trouble. They live in the past and they expect us to live in the past with
them. You were a good son to her, Hughie. That's why you make such a wonderful husband. Too
good, maybe. You've spoiled us both, and now we both want all of you."

Hugo was silent a moment. He was not a quick-thinking man. "A husband belongs to his wife,"
he said then, simply. "He's his mother's son by accident of birth. But he's his wife's husband
by choice, and deliberately."

But she laughed again at that. "It isn't as easy as that, sweetheart. If it was there'd be
no jokes in the funny papers. My poor boy! And just now, too, when you're so worried about
business."

"Business'll be all right, Lil. Trade'll open up next winter. It's got to. We've kept going
on the Japanese and English stuff. But if the French and Austrian factories start running we'll
have a whirlwind year. If it hadn't been for you this last year I don't know how I'd have stood
the strain. No importing, and the business just keeping its head above water. But you were
right, honey. We've weathered the worst of it now."

"I'm glad you didn't tell Mother about it. She'd have worried herself sick. If she had known
we both put every cent we had into the business--"

"We'll get it back ten times over. You'll see."

The sound of footsteps. "I wonder where she went. She oughtn't to be out alone. I'm kind of
worried about her, Hugo. Don't you think you'd better--"

Ma Mandle opened the front door and then slammed it, ostentatiously, as though she had just
come in.

"That you, Ma?" called Hugo.

He turned on the hall light. She stood there, blinking, a bent, pathetic little figure. Her
eyes were averted. "Are you all right, Ma? We began to worry about you."

"I'm all right. I'm going to bed."

He made a clumsy, masculine pretence at heartiness. "Lil and I are going over to the drug store
for a soda, it's so hot. Come on along, Ma."

Lil joined him in the doorway of the bedroom. Her eyes were red-rimmed behind the powder that
she had hastily dabbed on, but she smiled bravely.

"Come on, Mother," she said. "It'll cool you off."

But Ma Mandle shook her head. "I'm better off at home. You run along, you two."

That was all. But the two standing there caught something in her tone. Something new, something
gentle, something wise.

She went on down the hall to her room. She took off her clothes, and hung them away, neatly.
But once in her nightgown she did not get into bed. She sat there, in the chair by the window.
Old lady Mandle had lived to be seventy and had acquired much wisdom. One cannot live to be
seventy without having experienced almost everything in life. But to crystallize that experience
of a long lifetime into terms that would express the meaning of life--this she had never tried
to do. She could not do it now, for that matter. But she groped around, painfully, in her mind.
There had been herself and Hugo. And now Hugo's wife and the child to be. They were the ones
that counted, now. That was the law of life. She did not put it into words. But something of
this she thought as she sat there in her plain white nightgown, her scant white locks pinned
in a neat knob at the top of her head. Selfishness. That was it. They called it love, but it
was selfishness. She must tell them about it to-morrow--Mrs. Lamb, Mrs. Brunswick, and Mrs.
Wormser. Only yesterday Mrs. Brunswick had waxed bitter because her daughter-in-law had let
a moth get into her husband's winter suit.

"I never had a moth in my house!" Mrs. Brunswick had declared. "Never. But nowadays housekeeping
is nothing. A suit is ruined. What does my son's wife care! I never had a moth in my house."

Ma Mandle chuckled to herself there in the darkness. "I bet she did. She forgets. We all forget."

It was very hot to-night. Now and then there was a wisp of breeze from the lake, but not often....
How red Lil's eyes had been ... poor girl. Moved by a sudden impulse Ma Mandle thudded down
the hall in her bare feet, found a scrap of paper in the writing-desk drawer, scribbled a line
on it, turned out the light, and went into the empty front room. With a pin from the tray on
the dresser she fastened the note to Lil's pillow, high up, where she must see it the instant
she turned on the light. Then she scuttled down the hall to her room again.

She felt the heat terribly. She would sit by the window again. All the blood in her body seemed
to be pounding in her head ... pounding in her head ... pounding....

At ten Hugo and Lil came in, softly. Hugo tiptoed down the hall, as was his wont, and listened.
The room was in darkness. "Sleeping, Ma?" he whispered. He could not see the white-gowned figure
sitting peacefully by the window, and there was no answer. He tiptoed with painful awkwardness
up the hall again.

"She's asleep, all right. I didn't think she'd get to sleep so early on a scorcher like this."

Lil turned on the light in her room. "It's too hot to sleep," she said. She began to disrobe
languidly. Her eye fell on the scrap of paper pinned to her pillow. She went over to it, curiously,
leaned over, read it.

"Oh, look, Hugo!" She gave a little tremulous laugh that was more than half sob. He came over
to her and read it, his arm around her shoulder.

"My son Hugo and my daughter Lil they are the best son and daughter in the world."

A sudden hot haze before his eyes blotted out the words as he finished reading them.

YOU'VE GOT TO BE SELFISH

When you try to do a story about three people like Sid Hahn and Mizzi Markis and Wallie Ascher
you find yourself pawing around among the personalities helplessly. For the three of them are
what is known in newspaper parlance as national figures. One n.f. is enough for any short story.
Three would swamp a book. It's like one of those plays advertised as having an all-star cast.
By the time each luminary has come on, and been greeted, and done his twinkling the play has
faded into the background. You can't see the heavens for the stars.

Surely Sid Hahn, like the guest of honour at a dinner, needs no introduction. And just as surely
will he be introduced. He has been described elsewhere and often; perhaps nowhere more concisely
than on Page 16, paragraph two, of a volume that shall be nameless, though quoted, thus:

"Sid Hahn, erstwhile usher, call-boy, press agent, advance man, had a genius for things theatrical.
It was inborn. Dramatic, sensitive, artistic, intuitive, he was often rendered inarticulate
by the very force and variety of his feelings. A little, rotund, ugly man, with the eyes of
a dreamer, the wide, mobile mouth of a humourist, the ears of a comic ol' clo'es man. His generosity
was proverbial, and it amounted to a vice."

Not that that covers him. No one paragraph could. You turn a fine diamond this way and that,
and as its facets catch the light you say, "It's scarlet! No--it's blue! No--rose!--orange!--lilac!--no--"

That was Sid Hahn.

I suppose he never really sat for a photograph and yet you saw his likeness in all the magazines.
He was snapped on the street, and in the theatre, and even up in his famous library-study-office
on the sixth and top floor of the Thalia Theatre Building. Usually with a fat black cigar--unlighted--in
one corner of his commodious mouth. Everyone interested in things theatrical (and whom does
that not include!) knew all about Sid Hahn--and nothing. He had come, a boy, from one of those
middle-western towns with a high-falutin Greek name. Parthenon, Ohio, or something incredible
like that. No one knows how he first approached the profession which he was to dominate in
America. There's no record of his having asked for a job in a theatre, and received it. He
oozed into it, indefinably, and moved with it, and became a part of it and finally controlled
it. Satellites, fur-collared and pseudo-successful, trailing in his wake, used to talk loudly
of I-knew-him-when. They all lied. It had been Augustin Daly, dead these many years, who had
first recognized in this boy the genius for discovering and directing genius. Daly was, at
that time, at the zenith of his career--managing, writing, directing, producing. He fired the
imagination of this stocky, gargoyle-faced boy with the luminous eyes and the humorous mouth.
I don't know that Sid Hahn, hanging about the theatre in every kind of menial capacity, ever
said to himself in so many words:

"I'm going to be what he is. I'm going to concentrate on it. I won't let anything or anybody
interfere with it. Nobody knows what I'm going to be. But I know.... And you've got to be selfish.
You've got to be selfish."

Of course no one ever really made a speech like that to himself, even in the Horatio Alger
books. But if the great ambition and determination running through the whole fibre of his being
could have been crystallized into spoken words they would have sounded like that.

By the time he was forty-five he had discovered more stars than Copernicus. They were not all
first-magnitude twinklers. Some of them even glowed so feebly that you could see their light
only when he stood behind them, the steady radiance of his genius shining through. But taken
as a whole they made a brilliant constellation, furnishing much of the illumination for the
brightest thoroughfare in the world.

He had never married. There are those who say that he had had an early love affair, but that
he had sworn not to marry until he had achieved what he called success. And by that time it
had been too late. It was as though the hot flame of ambition had burned out all his other
passions. Later they say he was responsible for more happy marriages contracted by people who
did not know that he was responsible for them than a popular east-side shadchen. He grew a
little tired, perhaps, of playing with make-believe stage characters, and directing them, so
he began to play with real ones, like God. But always kind.

No woman can resist making love to a man as indifferent as Sid Hahn appeared to be. They all
tried their wiles on him: the red-haired ingénues, the blonde soubrettes, the stately leading
ladies, the war horses, the old-timers, the ponies, the prima donnas. He used to sit there
in his great, luxurious, book-lined inner office, smiling and inscrutable as a plump joss-house
idol while the fair ones burnt incense and made offering of shew-bread. Figuratively, he kicked
over the basket of shew-bread, and of the incense said, "Take away that stuff! It smells!"

Not that he hated women. He was afraid of them, at first. Then, from years of experience with
the femininity of the theatre, not nearly afraid enough. So, early, he had locked that corner
of his mind, and had thrown away the key. When, years after, he broke in the door, lo! (as
they say when an elaborate figure of speech is being used) lo! the treasures therein had turned
to dust and ashes.

It was he who had brought over from Paris to the American stage the famous Renée Paterne of
the incorrigible eyes. She made a fortune and swept the country with her song about those delinquent
orbs. But when she turned them on Hahn, in their first interview in his office, he regarded
her with what is known as a long, level look. She knew at that time not a word of English.
Sid Hahn was ignorant of French. He said, very low, and with terrible calm to Wallie Ascher
who was then acting as a sort of secretary, "Wallie, can't you do something to make her stop
rolling her eyes around at me like that? It's awful! She makes me think of those heads you
shy balls at, out at Coney. Take away my ink-well."

Renée had turned swiftly to Wallie and had said something to him in French. Sid Hahn cocked
a quick ear. "What's that she said?"

"She says," translated the obliging and gifted Wallie, "that monsieur is a woman-hater."

"My God! I thought she didn't understand English!"

"She doesn't. But she's a woman. Not only that, she's a French woman. They don't need to know
a language to understand it."

"Where did you get that, h'm? That wasn't included in your Berlitz course, was it?"

Wallie Ascher had grinned--that winning flash lighting up his dark, keen face. "No. I learned
that in another school."

Wallie Ascher's early career in the theatre, if repeated here, might almost be a tiresome repetition
of Hahn's beginning. And what Augustin Daly had been to Sid Hahn's imagination and ambition,
Sid Hahn was to Wallie's. Wallie, though, had been born to the theatre--if having a tumbler
for a father and a prestidigitator's foil for a mother can be said to be a legitimate entrance
into the world of the theatre.

He had been employed about the old Thalia for years before Hahn noticed him. In the beginning
he was a spindle-legged office boy in the upstairs suite of the firm of Hahn & Lohman, theatrical
producers; the kind of office-boy who is addicted to shrill, clear whistling unless very firmly
dealt with. No one in the outer office realized how faultless, how rhythmic were the arpeggios
and cadences that issued from those expertly puckered lips. There was about his performance
an unerring precision. As you listened you felt that his ascent to the inevitable high note
was a thing impossible of achievement. Up--up--up he would go, while you held your breath in
suspense. And then he took the high note--took it easily, insouciantly--held it, trilled it,
tossed it.

"Now, look here," Miss Feldman would snap--Miss Feldman of the outer office typewriter--"look
here, you kid. Any more of that bird warbling and you go back to the woods where you belong.
This ain't a--a--"

"Aviary," suggested Wallie, almost shyly.

Miss Feldman glared. "How did you know that word?"

"I don't know," helplessly. "But it's the word, isn't it?"

Miss Feldman turned back to her typewriter. "You're too smart for your age, you are."

"I know it," Wallie had agreed, humbly.

There's no telling where or how he learned to play the piano. He probably never did learn.
He played it, though, as he whistled--brilliantly. No doubt it was as imitative and as unconscious,
too, as his whistling had been. They say he didn't know one note from another, and doesn't
to this day.

At twenty, when he should have been in love with at least three girls, he had fixed in his
mind an image, a dream. And it bore no resemblance to twenty's accepted dreams. At that time
he was living in one room (rear) of a shabby rooming house in Thirty-ninth Street. And this
was the dream: By the time he was--well, long before he was thirty--he would have a bachelor
apartment with a Jap, Saki. Saki was the perfect servant, noiseless, unobtrusive, expert. He
saw little dinners just for four--or, at the most, six. And Saki, white-coated, deft, sliding
hot plates when plates should be hot; cold plates when plates should be cold. Then, other evenings,
alone, when he wanted to see no one--when, in a silken lounging robe (over faultless dinner
clothes, of course, and wearing the kind of collar you see in the back of the magazines) he
would say, "That will do, Saki." Then, all evening, he would play softly to himself those little,
intimate, wistful Schumanny things in the firelight with just one lamp glowing softly--almost
sombrely--at the side of the piano (grand).

His first real meeting with Sid Hahn had had much to do with the fixing of this image. Of course
he had seen Hahn hundreds of times in the office and about the theatre. They had spoken, too,
many times. Hahn called him vaguely, "Heh, boy!" but he grew to know him later as Wallie. From
errand-boy, office-boy, call-boy he had become, by that time, a sort of unofficial assistant
stage manager. No one acknowledged that he was invaluable about the place, but he was. When
a new play was in rehearsal at the Thalia, Wallie knew more about props, business, cues, lights,
and lines than the director himself. For a long time no one but Wallie and the director were
aware of this. The director never did admit it. But that Hahn should find it out was inevitable.

He was nineteen or thereabouts when he was sent, one rainy November evening, to deliver a play
manuscript to Hahn at his apartment. Wallie might have refused to perform an errand so menial,
but his worship of Hahn made him glad of any service, however humble. He buttoned his coat
over the manuscript, turned up his collar, and plunged into the cold drizzle of the November
evening.

Hahn's apartment--he lived alone--was in the early fifties, off Fifth Avenue. For two days
he had been ill with one of the heavy colds to which he was subject. He was unable to leave
the house. Hence Wallie's errand.

It was Saki--or Saki's equivalent--who opened the door. A white-coated, soft-stepping Jap,
world-old looking like the room glimpsed just beyond. Someone was playing the piano with one
finger, horribly.

"You're to give this to Mr. Hahn. He's waiting for it."

"Genelmun come in," said the Jap, softly.

"No, he don't want to see me. Just give it to him, see?"

"Genelmun come in." Evidently orders.

"Oh, all right. But I know he doesn't want--"

Wallie turned down his collar with a quick flip, looked doubtfully at his shoes, and passed
through the glowing little foyer into the room beyond. He stood in the doorway. He was scarcely
twenty then, but something in him sort of rose, and gathered, and seethed, and swelled, and
then hardened. He didn't know it then but it was his great resolve.

Sid Hahn was seated at the piano, a squat, gnomelike little figure, with those big ears, and
that plump face, and those soft eyes--the kindest eyes in the world. He did not stop playing
as Wallie appeared. He glanced up at him, ever so briefly, but kindly, too, and went on playing
the thing with one short forefinger, excruciatingly. Wallie waited. He had heard somewhere
that Hahn would sit at the piano thus, for hours, the tears running down his cheeks because
of the beauty of the music he could remember but not reproduce; and partly because of his own
inability to reproduce it.

The stubby little forefinger faltered, stopped. He looked up at Wallie.

"God, I wish I could play!"

"Helps a lot."

"You play?"

"Yes."

"What?"

"Oh, most anything I've heard once. And some things I kind of make up."

"Compose, you mean?"

"Yes."

"Play one of those."

So Wallie Ascher played one of those. Of course you know "Good Night--Pleasant Dreams." He
hadn't named it then. It wasn't even published until almost two years later, but that was what
he played for Sid Hahn. Since "After The Ball" no popular song has achieved the success of
that one. No doubt it was cheap, and no doubt it was sentimental, but so, too, are "The Suwanee
River" and "My Old Kentucky Home," and they'll be singing those when more classical songs have
long been forgotten. As Wallie played it his dark, thin face seemed to gleam and glow in the
lamplight.

When he had finished Sid Hahn was silent for a moment. Then, "What're you going to do with it?"

"With what?"

"With what you've got. You know."

Wallie knew that he did not mean the song he had just played. "I'm going to--I'm going to do
a lot with it."

"Yeh, but how?"

Wallie was looking down at his two lean brown hands on the keys. For a long minute he did not
answer. Then: "By thinking about it all the time. And working like hell.... And you've got
to be selfish ... You've got to be selfish ..."

As Sid Hahn stared at him, as though hypnotized, the Jap appeared in the doorway. Sid Hahn
said, "Stay and have dinner with me," instead of what he had meant to say.

"Oh, I can't! Thanks. I--" He wanted to terribly, but the thought was too much.

"Better."

They had dinner together. Even under the influence of Hahn's encouragement and two glasses
of mellow wine whose name he did not know, Wallie did not become fatuous. They talked about
music--neither of them knew anything about it, really. Wallie confessed that he used it as
an intoxicant and a stimulant.

"That's it!" cried Hahn, excitedly. "If I could play I'd have done more. More."

"Why don't you get one of those piano-players, What-you-call'ems?" Then, immediately, "No,
of course not."

"Nah, that doesn't do it," said Hahn, quickly. "That's like adopting a baby when you can't
have one of your own. It isn't the same. It isn't the same. It looks like a baby, and acts
like a baby, and sounds like a baby--but it isn't yours. It isn't you. That's it! It isn't you!"

"Yeh," agreed Wallie, nodding. So perfectly did they understand each other, this ill-assorted pair.

It was midnight before Wallie left. They had both forgotten about the play manuscript whose
delivery had been considered so important. The big room was gracious, quiet, soothing. A fire
flickered in the grate. One lamp glowed softly--almost sombrely.

As Wallie rose at last to go he shook himself slightly like one coming out of a trance. He
looked slowly about the golden, mellow room. "Gee!"

"Yes, but it isn't worth it," said Hahn, "after you've got it."

"That's what they all say"--grimly--"after they've got it."

The thing that had been born in Sid Hahn's mind thirty years before was now so plainly stamped
on this boy's face that Hahn was startled into earnestness. "But I tell you, it's true! It's true!"

"Maybe. Some day, when I'm living in a place like this, I'll let you know if you're right."

In less than a year Wallie Ascher was working with Hahn. No one knew his official title or
place. But "Ask Wallie. He'll know," had become a sort of slogan in the office. He did know.
At twenty-one his knowledge of the theatre was infallible (this does not include plays unproduced;
in this no one is infallible) and his feeling for it amounted to a sixth sense. There was something
uncanny about the way he could talk about Lottie, for example, as if he had seen her; or Mrs.
Siddons; or Mrs. Fiske when she was Minnie Maddern, the soubrette. It was as though he had
the power to cast himself back into the past. No doubt it was that power which gave later to
his group of historical plays (written by him between the ages of thirty and thirty-five) their
convincingness and authority.

When Wallie was about twenty-three or -four Sid Hahn took him abroad on one of his annual scouting
trips. Yearly, in the spring, Hahn swooped down upon London, Paris, Vienna, Berlin, seeking
that of the foreign stage which might be translated, fumigated, desiccated, or otherwise rendered
suitable for home use. He sent Wallie on to Vienna, alone, on the trail of a musical comedy
rumoured to be a second Merry Widow in tunefulness, chic, and charm. Of course it wasn't. Merry
Widows rarely repeat. Wallie wired Hahn, as arranged. The telegram is unimportant, perhaps,
but characteristic.

     MR. SID. HAHN,
     Hotel Savoy,
     London,
     England.

     It's a second all right but not a second Merry Widow. Heard of
     a winner in Budapest. Shall I go. Spent to-day from eleven to
     five running around the Ringstrasse looking for mythical
     creature known as the chic Viennese. After careful
     investigation wish to be quoted as saying the species if any
     is extinct.

     WALLIE.

This, remember, was in the year 1913, B.W. Wallie, obeying instructions, went to Budapest,
witnessed the alleged winner, found it as advertised, wired Hahn to that effect, and was joined
by that gentleman three days later.

Budapest, at that time, was still Little Paris, only wickeder. A city of magnificent buildings,
and unsalted caviar, and beautiful, dangerous women, and frumpy men (civilian) and dashing
officers in red pants, and Cigány music, and cafés and paprika and two-horse droshkies. Buda,
low and flat, lay on one side; Pest, high and hilly, perched picturesquely on the other. Between
the two rolled the Blue Danube (which is yellow).

It was here that Hahn and Wallie found Mizzi Markis. Mizzi Markis, then a girl of nineteen,
was a hod carrier.

Wallie had three days in Budapest before Hahn met him there. As the manager stepped from the
train, looking geometrically square in a long ulster that touched his ears and his heels, Wallie
met him with a bound.

"Hello, S.H.! Great to see you! Say, listen, I've found something. I've found something big!"

Hahn had never seen the boy so excited. "Oh, shucks! No play's as good as that."

"Play! It isn't a play."

"Why, you young idiot, you said it was good! You said it was darned good! You don't mean to
tell me--"

"Oh, that! That's all right. It's good--or will be when you get through with it."

"What you talking about then? Here, let's take one of these things with two horses. Gee, you
ought to smoke a fat black seegar and wear a silk hat when you ride in one of these! I feel
like a parade." He was like a boy on a holiday, as always when in Europe.

"But let me tell you about this girl, won't you!"

"Oh, it's a girl! What's her name? What's she do?"

"Her name's Mizzi."

"Mizzi what?"

"I don't know. She's a hod carrier. She--"

"That's all right, Wallie. I'm here now. An ice bag on your head and real quiet for two-three
days. You'll come round fine."

But Wallie was almost sulking. "Wait till you see her, S.H. She sings."

"Beautiful, is she?"

"No, not particularly. No."

"Wonderful voice, h'm?"

"N-n-no. I wouldn't say it was what you'd call exactly wonderful."

Sid Hahn stood up in the droshky and waved his short arms in windmill circles. "Well, what
the devil does she do then, that's so good? Carry bricks!"

"She is good at that. When she balances that pail of mortar on her head and walks off with
it, her arms hanging straight at her sides--"

But Sid Hahn's patience was at an end. "You're a humourist, you are. If I didn't know you I'd
say you were drunk. I'll bet you are, anyway. You've been eating paprika, raw. You make me sick."

Inelegant, but expressive of his feelings. But Wallie only said, "You wait. You'll see."

Sid Hahn did see. He saw next day. Wallie woke him out of a sound sleep so that he might see.
It was ten-thirty A.M. so that his peevishness was unwarranted. They had seen the play the
night before and Hahn had decided that, translated and with interpolations (it was a comic
opera), it would captivate New York. Then and there he completed the negotiations which Wallie
had begun. Hahn was all for taking the first train out, but Wallie was firm. "You've got to
see her, I tell you. You've got to see her."

Their hotel faced the Corso. The Corso is a wide promenade that runs along the Buda bank of
the Danube. Across the river, on the hill, the royal palace looks down upon the little common
people. In that day the monde and the demi-monde of Budapest walked on the Corso between twelve
and one. Up and down. Up and down. The women, tall, dark, flashing-eyed, daringly dressed.
The men sallow, meagre, and wearing those trousers which, cut very wide and flappy at the ankles,
make them the dowdiest men in the world. Hahn's room and Wallie's were on the second floor
of the hotel, and at a corner. One set of windows faced the Corso, the river, and Pest on the
hill. The other set looked down upon a new building being erected across the way. It was on
this building that Mizzi Markis worked as hod carrier.

The war accustomed us to a million women in overalls doing the work of a million men. We saw
them ploughing, juggling steel bars, making shells, running engines, stoking furnaces, handling
freight. But to these two American men, at that time, the thing at which these labouring women
were employed was dreadful and incredible.

Said Wallie "By the time we've dressed, and had breakfast, and walked a little and everything,
it'll be almost noon. And noon's the time. After they've eaten their lunch. But I want you
to see her before."

By now his earnestness had impressed Hahn who still feigned an indifference he did not feel.
It was about 11:30 when Wallie propelled him by the arm to the unfinished building across the
way. And there he met Mizzi.

They were just completing the foundation. The place was a busy hive. Back and forth with pails.
Back and forth with loads of bricks.

"What's the matter with the men?" was Hahn's first question.

Wallie explained. "They do the dainty work. They put one brick on top of the other, with a
dab of mortar between. But none of the back-breaking stuff for them. The women do that."

And it was so. They were down in the pits mixing the mortar, were the women. They were carrying
great pails of it. They were hauling bricks up one ladder and down. They wore short, full skirts
with a musical-comedy-chorus effect. Some of them looked seventy and some seventeen. It was
fearful work for a woman. A keen wind was blowing across the river. Their hands were purple.

"Pick Mizzi," said Wallie. "If you can pick her I'll know I'm right. But I know it, anyway."

Five minutes passed. The two men stood silent. "The one with the walk and the face," said Hahn,
then. Which wasn't very bright of him, because they all walked and they all had faces. "Going
up the pit-ladder now. With the pail on her head." Wallie gave a little laugh of triumph. But
then, Hahn wouldn't have been Hahn had he not been able to pick a personality when he saw it.

Years afterward the reviewers always talked of Mizzi's walk. They called it her superb carriage.
They didn't know that you have to walk very straight, on the balls of your feet, with your
hips firm, your stomach held in flat, your shoulders back, your chest out, your chin out and
a little down, if you are going to be at all successful in balancing a pail of mortar on your
head. After a while that walk becomes a habit.

"Watch her with that pail," said Wallie.

Mizzi filled the pail almost to the top with the heavy white mixture. She filled it quickly,
expertly. The pail, filled, weighed between seventeen and twenty kilos. One kilo is equal to
about two and one fifth pounds. The girl threw down her scoop, stooped, grasped the pail by
its two handles, and with one superb, unbroken motion raised the pail high in her two strong
arms and placed it on her head. Then she breathed deeply, once, set her whole figure, turned
stiffly, and was off with it. Sid Hahn took on a long breath as though he himself had just
accomplished the gymnastic feat.

"Well, so far it's pretty good. But I don't know that the American stage is clamouring for
any hod carriers and mortar mixers, exactly."

A whistle blew. Twelve o'clock. Bricks, mortar, scoops, shovels were abandoned. The women,
in their great clod-hopping shoes, flew chattering to the tiny hut where their lunch boxes
were stored. The men followed more slowly, a mere handful of them. Not one of them wore overalls
or apron. Out again with their bundles and boxes of food--very small bundles. Very tiny boxes.
They ate ravenously the bread and sausage and drank their beer in great gulps. Fifteen minutes
after the whistle had blown the last crumb had vanished.

"Now, then," said Wallie, and guided Hahn nearer. He looked toward Mizzi. Everyone looked toward
her. Mizzi stood up, brushing crumbs from her lap. She had a little four-cornered black shawl,
folded cross-wise, over her head and tied under her chin. Her face was round and her cheeks
red. The shawl, framing this, made her look very young and cherubic.

She did not put her hands on her hips, or do any of those story-book things. She grinned, broadly,
showing strong white teeth made strong and white through much munching of coarse black bread;
not yet showing the neglect common to her class. She asked a question in a loud, clear voice.

"What's that?" asked Hahn.

"She's talking a kind of hunky Hungarian, I guess. The people here won't speak German, did
you know that? They hate it."

The crowd shouted back with one voice. They settled themselves comfortably, sitting or standing.
Their faces held the broad smile of anticipation.

"She asked them what they want her to sing. They told her. It's the same every day."

Mizzi Markis stood there before them in the mud, and clay, and straw of the building débris.
And she sang for them a Hungarian popular song of the day which, translated, sounds idiotic
and which runs something like this:

    A hundred geese in a row
    Going into the coop.
    At the head of the procession
    A stick over his shoulder--

No, you can't do it. It means less than nothing that way, and certainly would not warrant the
shrieks of mirth that came from the audience gathered round the girl. Still, when you recall
the words of "A Hot Time":

    When you hear dem bells go ding-ling-ling,
    All join round and sweetly you must sing
    And when the words am through in the chorus all join in
    There'll be a hot time
    In the old town
    To-night.
          My
           Ba-
             By.

And yet it swept this continent, and Europe, and in Japan they still think it's our national
anthem.

When she had finished, the crowd gave a roar of delight, and clapped their hands, and stamped
their feet, and shouted. She had no unusual beauty. Her voice was untrained though possessed
of strength and flexibility. It wasn't what she had sung, surely. You heard the song in a hundred
cafés. Every street boy whistled it. It wasn't that expressive pair of shoulders, exactly.
It wasn't a certain soothing tonal quality that made you forget all the things you'd been trying
not to remember.

There is something so futile and unconvincing about an attempted description of an intangible
thing. Some call it personality; some call it magnetism; some a rhythm sense; and some, genius.
It's all these things, and none of them. Whatever it is, she had it. And whatever it is, Sid
Hahn has never failed to recognize it.

So now he said, quietly, "She's got it."

"You bet she's got it!" from Wallie. "She's got more than Renée Paterne ever had. A year of
training and some clothes--"

"You don't need to tell me. I'm in the theatrical business, myself."

"I'm sorry," stiffly.

But Hahn, too, was sorry immediately. "You know how I am, Wallie. I like to run a thing off
by myself. What do you know about her? Find out anything?"

"Well, a little. She doesn't seem to have any people. And she's decent. Kind of a fierce kid,
I guess, and fights when offended. They say she's Polish, not Hungarian. Her mother was a peasant.
Her father--nobody knows. I had a dickens of a time finding out anything. The most terrible
language in the world--Hungarian. They'll stick a b next to a k and follow it up with a z and
put an accent mark over the whole business and call it a word. Last night I followed her home.
And guess what!"

"What?" said Hahn, obligingly.

"On her way she had to cross the big square--the one they call Gisela Tér, with all the shops
around it. Well, when she came to Gerbeaud's--"

"What's Gerbeaud's?"

"That's the famous tea room and pastry shop where all the swells go and guzzle tea with rum
in it and eat cakes--and say! It isn't like our pastry that tastes like sawdust covered with
shaving soap. Marvellous stuff, this is!"

After all, he was barely twenty-four. So Hahn said, good-naturedly, "All right, all right.
We'll go there this afternoon and eat an acre of it. Go on. When she came to Gerbeaud's...?"

"Well, when she came to Gerbeaud's she stopped and stood there, outside. There was a strip
of red carpet from the door to the street. You know--the kind they have at home when there's
a wedding on Fifth Avenue. There she stood at the edge of the carpet, waiting, her face, framed
in that funny little black shawl, turned toward the window, and the tail of the little shawl
kind of waggling in the wind. It was cold and nippy. I waited, too. Finally I sort of strolled
over to her--I knew she couldn't any more than knock me down--and said, kind of casual, 'What's
doing?' She looked up at me, like a kid, in that funny shawl. She knew I was an Englees, right
away. I guess I must have a fine, open countenance. And I had motioned toward the red carpet,
and the crowded windows. Anyway, she opens up with a regular burst of fireworks Hungarian,
in that deep voice of hers. Not only that, she acted it out. In two seconds she had on an imaginary
coronet and a court train. And haughty! Gosh! I was sort of stumped, but I said, 'You don't
say!' and waited some more. And then they flung open the door of the tea shop thing. At the
same moment up dashed an equipage--you couldn't possibly call it anything less--with flunkeys
all over the outside, like trained monkeys. The people inside the shop stood up, with their
mouths full of cake, and out came an old frump with a terrible hat and a fringe. And it was
the Archduchess, and her name is Josefa."

"Your story interests me strangely, boy," Hahn said, grinning, "but I don't quite make you.
Do archduchesses go to tea rooms for tea? And what's that got to do with our gifted little
hod carrier?"

"This duchess does. Believe me, those tarts are good enough for the Queen of Hearts, let alone
a duchess, no matter how arch. But the plot of the piece is this. The duchess person goes to
Gerbeaud's about twice a week. And they always spread a red carpet for her. And Mizzi always
manages to cut away in time to stand there in front of Gerbeaud's and see her come out. She's
a gorgeous mimic, that little kid. And though I couldn't understand a word she said I managed
to get out of it just this: That some day they're going to spread a red carpet for Mizzi and
she's going to walk down it in glory. If you'd seen her face when she said it, S.H., you wouldn't
laugh."

"I wouldn't laugh anyway," said Hahn, seriously.

And that's the true story of Mizzi Markis's beginning. Few people know it.

       *       *       *       *       *

There they were, the three of them. And of the three, Mizzi's ambition seemed to be the fiercest,
the most implacable. She worked like a horse, cramming English, French, singing. In some things
she was like a woman of thirty; in others a child of ten. Her gratitude to Hahn was pathetic.
No one ever doubted that he was in love with her almost from the first--he who had resisted
the professional beauties of three decades.

You know she wasn't--and isn't--a beauty, even in that portrait of her by Sargent, with her
two black-haired, stunning-looking boys, one on either side. But she was one of those gorgeously
healthy women whose very presence energizes those with whom she comes in contact. And then
there was about her a certain bounteousness. There's no other word for it, really. She reminded
you of those gracious figures you see posed for pictures entitled "Autumn Harvest."

While she was studying she had a little apartment with a middle-aged woman to look after her,
and she must have been a handful. A born cook, she was, and Hahn and Wallie used to go there
to dinner whenever she would let them. She cooked it herself. Hahn would give up any engagement
for a dinner at Mizzi's. When he entered her little sitting room his cares seemed to drop from
him. She never got over cutting bread as the peasant women do it--the loaf held firmly against
her breast, the knife cutting toward her. Hahn used to watch her and laugh. Sometimes she would
put on the little black head-shawl of her Budapest days and sing the street-song about the
hundred geese in a row. A delightful, impudent figure.

With the very first English she learned she told Hahn and Wallie that some day they were going
to spread a fine red carpet for her to tread upon and that all the world would gaze on her
with envy. It was in her mind a symbol typifying all that there was of earthly glory.

"It'll be a long time before they do any red carpeting for you, my girl," Sid Hahn had said.

She turned on him fiercely. "I will not rest--I will not eat--I will not sleep--I will not
love--until I have it."

Which was, of course, an exaggerated absurdity.

"Oh, what rot!" Wallie Ascher had said, angrily, and then he had thought of his own symbol
of success, and his own resolve. And his face had hardened. Sid Hahn looked at the two of them;
very young, both of them, very gifted, very electric. Very much in love with each other, though
neither would admit it even in their own minds. Both their stern young faces set toward the
goal which they thought meant happiness.

Now, Sid Hahn had never dabbled in this new stuff--you know--complexes and fixed ideas and
images. But he was a very wise man, and he did know to what an extent these two were possessed
by ambition for that which they considered desirable.

He must have thought it over for weeks. He was in love with Mizzi, remember. And his fondness
for Wallie was a thing almost paternal. He watched these two for a long, long time, a queer,
grim little smile on his gargoyle face. And then his mind was made up. He had always had his
own way. He must have had a certain terrible enjoyment in depriving himself of the one thing
he wanted most in the world--the one thing he wanted more than he had ever wanted anything.

He decided that Destiny--a ponderous, slow-moving creature at best--needed a little prodding
from him. His plans were simple, as all effective plans are.

Mizzi had been in America just a year and a half. Her development was amazing, but she was
far from being the finished product that she became in later years. Hahn decided to chance
it. Mizzi had no fear of audiences. He had tried her out on that. An audience stimulated her.
She took it to her breast. She romped with it.

He found a play at last. A comedy, with music. It was frankly built for Mizzi. He called Wallie
Ascher into his office.

"I wouldn't try her out here for a million. New York's too fly. Some little thing might be
wrong--you know how they are. And all the rest would go for nothing. The kindest audience in
the world--when they like you. And the cruelest when they don't. We'll go on the road for two
weeks. Then we'll open at the Blackstone in Chicago. I think this girl has got more real genius
than any woman since--since Bernhardt in her prime. Five years from now she won't be singing.
She'll be acting. And it'll be acting."

"Aren't you forcing things just a little?" asked Wallie, coolly.

"Oh, no. No. Anyway, it's just a try-out. By the way, Wallie, I'll probably be gone almost
a month. If things go pretty well in Chicago I'll run over to French Lick for eight or ten
days and see if I can't get a little of this stiffness out of my old bones. Will you do something
for me?"

"Sure."

"Pack a few clothes and go up to my place and live there, will you? The Jap stays on, anyway.
The last time I left it alone things went wrong. You'll be doing me a favour. Take it and play
the piano, and have your friends in, and boss the Jap around. He's stuck on you, anyway. Says
he likes to hear you play."

He stayed away six weeks. And any one who knows him knows what hardship that was. He loved
New York, and his own place, and his comfort, and his books; and hotel food gave him hideous
indigestion.

Mizzi's first appearance was a moderate success. It was nothing like the sensation of her later
efforts. She wasn't ready, and Hahn knew it. Mizzi and her middle-aged woman companion were
installed at the Blackstone Hotel, which is just next door to the Blackstone Theatre, as any
one is aware who knows Chicago. She was advertised as the Polish comedienne, Mizzi Markis,
and the announcements hinted at her royal though remote ancestry. And on the night the play
opened, as Mizzi stepped from the entrance of her hotel on her way to the stage door, just
forty or fifty feet away, there she saw stretched on the pavement a scarlet path of soft-grained
carpet for her feet to tread. From the steps of the hotel to the stage door of the theatre,
there it lay, a rosy line of splendour.

The newspapers played it up as a publicity stunt. Every night, while the play lasted, the carpet
was there. It was rolled up when the stage door closed upon her. It was unrolled and spread
again when she came out after the performance. Hahn never forgot her face when she first saw
it, and realized its significance. The look was there on the second night, and on the third,
but after that it faded, vanished, and never came again. Mizzi had tasted of the golden fruit
and found it dry and profitless, without nourishment or sweetness.

The show closed in the midst of a fairly good run. It closed abruptly, without warning. Together
they came back to New York. Just outside New York Hahn knocked at the door of Mizzi's drawing
room and stuck his round, ugly face in at the opening.

"Let's surprise Wallie," he said.

"Yes," said Mizzi, listlessly.

"He doesn't know the show's closed. We'll take a chance on his being home for dinner. Unless
you're too tired."

"I'm not tired."

The Jap admitted them, and Hahn cut off his staccato exclamations with a quick and smothering
hand. They tiptoed into the big, gracious, lamp-lighted room.

Wallie was seated at the piano. He had on a silk dressing gown with a purple cord. One of those
dressing gowns you see in the haberdashers' windows, and wonder who buys them. He looked very
tall in it, and rather distinguished, but not quite happy. He was playing as they came in.
They said, "Boo!" or something idiotic like that. He stood up. And his face!

"Why, hello!" he said, and came forward, swiftly. "Hello! Hello!"

"Hello!" Hahn answered; "Not to say hello-hello."

Wallie looked at the girl. "Hello, Mizzi."

"Hello," said Mizzi.

"For God's sake stop saying 'hello!'" roared Hahn.

They both looked at him absently, and then at each other again.

Hahn flung his coat and hat at the Jap and rubbed his palms briskly together. "Well, how did
you like it?" he said, and slapped Wallie on the back. "How'd you like it--the place I mean,
and the Jap boy and all? H'm?"

"Very much," Wallie answered, formally. "Very nice."

"You'll be having one of your own some day, soon. That's sure."

"I suppose so," said Wallie, indifferently.

"I would like to go home," said Mizzi, suddenly, in her precise English.

At that Wallie leaped out of his lounging coat. "I'll take you! I'll--I'll be glad to take you."

Hahn smiled a little, ruefully. "We were going to have dinner here, the three of us. But if
you're tired, Mizzi. I'm not so chipper myself when it comes to that." He looked about the
room, gratefully. "It's good to be home."

Wallie, hat in hand, was waiting in the doorway, Mizzi, turning to go, suddenly felt two hands
on her shoulders. She was whirled around. Hahn--he had to stand on tiptoe to do it--kissed
her once on the mouth, hard. Then he gave her a little shove toward the door. "Tell Wallie
about the red carpet," he said.

"I will not," Mizzi replied, very distinctly. "I hate red carpets."

Then they were gone. Hahn hardly seemed to notice that they had left. There were, I suppose,
the proper number of Good-byes, and See-you-to-morrows, and Thank yous.

Sid Hahn stood there a moment in the middle of the room, very small, very squat, rather gnomelike,
but not at all funny. He went over to the piano and seated himself, his shoulders hunched,
his short legs clearing the floor. With the forefinger of his right hand he began to pick out
a little tune. Not a sad little tune. A Hungarian street song. He did it atrociously. The stubby
forefinger came down painstakingly on the white keys. Suddenly the little Jap servant stood
in the doorway. Hahn looked up. His cheeks were wet with tears.

"God! I wish I could play!" he said. But before we can appreciate it we'll have to know Chester
Ball in his Chicago days.

But not Anastasia Rourke. The other was shrunken and faded with years and labour. As the girl
minced across the room in her absurdly high-heeled white kid shoes the older woman thought:
"My, but she's pretty!" But she said aloud: "Them shoes could stand a cleaning. Such a grand
evening. Why don't you put on your things and run downtown, or over to Cora's or somewhere, h'm?"

"Don't let this go any further, see? H'm?" And the clasp tightened until it hurt her, and she
was glad.

       *       *       *       *       *

No more of that now. Chuck--gone. Scotty--gone. All the boys at the watch works, all the fellows
in the neighbourhood--gone. Goo'-bye! Write, now! Be sure! Mebbe you can get off in a week,
for a visit. Goo'-bye! Goo--"

They were gone. My land! They dressed up in their brother's clothes, or their father's or a
neighbour boy's, and met at Cora's. They looked as knock-kneed and slope-shouldered and unmasculine
as girls usually do in men's attire. All except Tessie. There was something so astonishingly
boyish and straight about her; she swaggered about with such a mannish swing of the leg (that
was the actress in her) that the girls flushed a little and said: "Honest, Tess, if I didn't
know you was a girl, I'd be stuck on you. With that hat on a person wouldn't know you from a boy."

Tessie would cross one slim leg over the other and bestow a knowing wink upon the speaker.
"Some hen party!" they all said. When they met a passer-by they giggled and shrieked and ran.

But the thing was a failure, and they knew it. And the folks themselves--why, say! And I been
thinkin' of you every minute. There wasn't a day--"

"Tell that to your swell New York friends. I may be a rube, but I ain't a fool." It was the
extent of her experience as a traveller.

And within her something was screaming: "Oh, my God! Oh, my God! He knows French. And those
girls that can row and everything. She may not have been versed in French, Tessie, but she
was wise in feminine wiles. Nix!"

It had been reassuring enough at the time. But that was six months ago.

"Tha' so? For the maternal may be strong at twenty. "She's goin' over there after that fella
of hers. She's chasin' him. Twenty craves someone to tell it how wonderful it is. And Nap Ballou
told her.

"Both comin' at once, like that--" Somebody flash me a cut-in so I can kinda follow the story.

"They say his aireoplane fell ten thousan' feet--"

"The news come only last evenin' about eight--" Alcohol-atrophied muscles do not take kindly
to rowing.

Tessie tried some of her old-time pertness of speech. "Oh, good enough, considerin' the company."

He laughed, admiringly, at that and said she was a card. Tessie's lips were not virgin. So
I got mad and said I didn't care, I wasn't goin' to squat home all my life, waitin'...." Me,
I ain't learnin' anything. Hundreds.

ONE HUNDRED PER CENT

They had always had two morning papers--he his, she hers. The Times. Both. Nothing could illustrate
more clearly the plan on which Mr. and Mrs. T.A. Buck conducted their married life. Theirs
was the morning calm and harmony which comes to two people who are free to digest breakfast
and the First Page simultaneously with no--"Just let me see the inside sheet, will you, dear?"
to mar the day's beginning.

In the days when she had been Mrs. Emma McChesney, travelling saleswoman for the T.A. Buck
Featherloom Petticoat Company, New York, her perusal of the morning's news had been, perforce,
a hasty process, accomplished between trains, or in a small-town hotel 'bus, jolting its way
to the depot for the 7.52; or over an American-plan breakfast throughout which seven eighths
of her mind was intent on the purchasing possibilities of a prospective nine o'clock skirt
buyer. There was no need now of haste, but the habit of years still clung. From eight-thirty
to eight thirty-five A.M. Emma McChesney Buck was always in partial eclipse behind the billowing
pages of her newspaper. Only the tip of her topmost coil of bright hair was visible. She read
swiftly, darting from war news to health hints, from stock market to sport page, and finding
something of interest in each. For her there was nothing cryptic in a headline such as "Rudie
Slams One Home"; and Do pfd followed by dotted lines and vulgar fractions were to her as easily
translated as the Daily Hint From Paris. Hers was the photographic eye and the alert brain
that can film a column or a page at a glance.

Across the table her husband sat turned slightly sidewise in his chair, his paper folded in
a tidy oblong. He read down one column, top of the next and down that, seriously and methodically;
giving to toast or coffee-cup the single-handed and groping attention of one whose interest
is elsewhere. The light from the big bay window fell on the printed page and cameoed his profile.
After three years of daily contact with it, Emma still caught herself occasionally gazing with
appreciation at that clear-cut profile and the clean, shining line of his hair as it grew away
from the temple.

"T.A.," she had announced one morning, to his mystification, "you're the Francis X. Bushman
of the breakfast table. I believe you sit that way purposely."

"Francis X--?" He was not a follower of the films.

Emma elucidated. "Discoverer and world's champion exponent of the side face."

"I might punish you, Emma, by making a pun about its all being Greek to me, but I shan't."
He returned to Page Two, Column Four.

Usually their conversation was comfortably monosyllabic and disjointed, as is the breakfast
talk of two people who understand each other. Amicable silence was the rule, broken only by
the rustle of paper, the clink of china, an occasional, "Toast, dear?" And when Buck, in a
low, vibrating tone (slightly muffled by buttered corn muffin) said, "Dogs!" Emma knew he was
pursuing the daily schrecklichkeit.

Upon this cozy scene Conservation cast his gaunt shadow. It was in June, the year of America's
Great Step, that Emma, examining her household, pronounced it fattily degenerate, with complications,
and performed upon it a severe and skilful surgical operation. Among the rest:

"One morning paper ought to be enough for any husband and wife who aren't living on a Boffin
basis. There'll be one copy of the Times delivered at this house in the future, Mr. Buck. We
might match pennies for it, mornings."

It lay there on the hall table that first morning, an innocent oblong, its headlines staring
up at them with inky eyes.

"Paper, T.A.," she said, and handed it to him.

"You take it, dear."

"Oh, no! No."

She poured the coffee, trying to keep her gaze away from the tantalizing tail-end of the headline
at whose first half she could only guess.

"By Jove, Emma! Listen to this! Pershing says if we have one m--"

"Stop right there! We've become pretty well acquainted in the last three years, T.A. But if
you haven't learned that if there's one thing I can't endure, it's being fed across the table
with scraps of the day's news, I shall have to consider our marriage a failure."

"Oh, very well. I merely thought you'd be--"

"I am. But there's something about having it read to you--"

On the second morning Emma, hurriedly fastening the middle button of her blouse on her way
downstairs, collided with her husband, who was shrugging himself into his coat. They continued
their way downstairs with considerable dignity and pronounced leisure. The paper lay on the
hall table. They reached for it. There was a moment--just the fraction of a minute--when each
clutched a corner of it, eying the other grimly. Then both let go suddenly, as though the paper
had burned their fingers. They stared at each other, surprise and horror in their gaze. The
paper fell to the floor with a little slap. Both stooped for it, apologetically. Their heads
bumped. They staggered back, semi-stunned.

Emma found herself laughing, rather wildly. Buck joined in after a moment--a rueful laugh.
She was the first to recover.

"That settles it. I'm willing to eat trick bread and whale meat and drink sugarless coffee,
but I draw the line at hating my husband for the price of a newspaper subscription. White paper
may be scarce but so are husbands. It's cheaper to get two newspapers than to set up two establishments."

They were only two among many millions who, at that time, were playing an amusing and fashionable
game called Win the War. They did not realize that the game was to develop into a grim and
magnificently functioning business to whose demands they would cheerfully sacrifice all that
they most treasured.

Of late, Emma had spent less and less time in the offices of the Featherloom Company. For more
than ten years that flourishing business, and the career of her son, Jock McChesney, had been
the twin orbits about which her existence had revolved. But Jock McChesney was a man of family
now, with a wife, two babies, and an uncanny advertising sense that threatened to put his name
on the letterhead of the Raynor Advertising Company of Chicago. As for the Featherloom factory--it
seemed to go of its own momentum. After her marriage to the firm's head, Emma's interest in
the business was unflagging.

"Now look here, Emma," Buck would say. "You've given enough to this firm. Play a while. Cut
up. Forget you're the 'And Company' in T.A. Buck & Co."

"But I'm so used to it. I'd miss it so. You know what happened that first year of our marriage
when I tried to do the duchess. I don't know how to loll. If you take Featherlooms away from
me I'll degenerate into a Madam Chairman. You'll see."

She might have, too, if the War had not come along and saved her.

By midsummer the workrooms were turning out strange garments, such as gray and khaki flannel
shirts, flannelette one-piece pajamas, and woollen bloomers, all intended for the needs of
women war workers going abroad.

Emma had dropped into the workroom one day and had picked up a half-finished gray flannel garment.
She eyed it critically, her deft fingers manipulating the neckband. A little frown gathered
between her eyes.

"Somehow a woman in a flannel shirt always looks as if she had quinsy. It's the collar. They
cut them like a man's small-size. But a woman's neck is as different from a man's as her collarbone
is."

She picked up a piece of flannel and smoothed it on the cutting-table. The head designer had
looked on in disapproval while her employer's wife had experimented with scraps of cloth, and
pins, and chalk, and scissors. But Emma had gone on serenely cutting and snipping and pinning.
They made up samples of service shirts with the new neck-hugging collar and submitted them
to Miss Nevins, the head of the woman's uniform department at Fyfe & Gordon's. That astute
lady had been obliged to listen to scores of canteeners, nurses, secretaries, and motor leaguers
who, standing before a long mirror in one of the many fitting-rooms, had gazed, frowned, fumbled
at collar and topmost button, and said, "But it looks so--so lumpy around the neck."

Miss Kate Nevins's reply to this plaint was: "Oh, when you get your tie on--"

"Perhaps they'll let me wear a turn-down collar."

"Absolutely against regulations. The rules strictly forbid anything but the high, close-fitting
collar."

The fair war worker would sigh, mutter something about supposing they'd shoot you at sunrise
for wearing a becoming shirt, and order six, grumbling.

Kate Nevins had known Mrs. T.A. Buck in that lady's Emma McChesney days. At the end of the
first day's trial of the new Featherloom shirt she had telephoned the Featherloom factory and
had asked for Emma McChesney. People who had known her by that name never seemed able to get
the trick of calling her by any other.

With every fitting-room in the Fyfe & Gordon establishment demanding her attention, Miss Nevins's
conversation was necessarily brief. "Emma McChesney?... Kate Nevins.... Who's responsible for
the collar on those Featherloom shirts?... I was sure of it.... No regular designer could cut
a collar like that. Takes a genius.... H'm?... Well, I mean it. I'm going to write to Washington
and have 'em vote you a distinguished service medal. This is the first day since last I-don't-know-when
that hasn't found me in the last stages of nervous exhaustion at six o'clock.... All these
women warriors are willing to bleed and die for their country, but they want to do it in a
collar that fits, and I don't blame 'em. After I saw the pictures of that Russian Battalion
of Death, I understood why.... Yes, I know I oughtn't to say that, but...."

By autumn Emma was wearing one of those Featherloom service shirts herself. It was inevitable
that a woman of her executive ability, initiative, and detail sense should be pressed into
active service. November saw Fifth Avenue a-glitter with uniforms, and one third of them seemed
to be petticoated. The Featherloom factory saw little of Emma now. She bore the title of Commandant
with feminine captains, lieutenants, and girl workers under her; and her blue uniform, as she
herself put it, was so a-jingle with straps, buckles, belts, bars, and bolts that when she
first put it on she felt like a jail.

She left the house at eight in the morning now. Dinner time rarely found her back in Sixty-third
Street. Buck was devoting four evenings a week to the draft board. At the time of the second
Liberty Loan drive in the autumn he had deserted Featherlooms for bonds. His success was due
to the commodity he had for sale, the type of person to whom he sold it, and his own selling
methods and personality. There was something about this slim, leisurely man, with the handsome
eyes and the quiet voice, that convinced and impressed you.

"It's your complete lack of eagerness in the transaction, too," Emma remarked after watching
him land a twenty-five-thousand-dollar bond pledge, the buyer a business rival of the Featherloom
Petticoat Company. "You make it seem a privilege, not a favour. A man with your method could
sell sandbags in the Sahara."

Sometimes the two dined downtown together. Sometimes they scarcely saw each other for days
on end. One afternoon at 5.30, Emma, on duty bound, espied him walking home up Fifth Avenue,
on the opposite side of the street. She felt a little pang as she watched the easy, graceful
figure swinging its way up the brilliant, flag-decked avenue. She had given him so little time
and thought; she had bestowed upon the house such scant attention in the last few weeks. She
turned abruptly and crossed the street, dodging the late afternoon traffic with a sort of expert
recklessness. She almost ran after the tall figure that was now a block ahead of her, and walking
fast. She caught up with him, matched his stride, and touched his arm lightly.

"I beg your pardon, but aren't you Mr. T.A. Buck?"

"Yes."

"How do you do! I'm Mrs. Buck."

Then they had giggled together, deliciously, and he had put a firm hand on the smartly tailored
blue serge sleeve.

"I thought so. That being the case, you're coming home along o' me, young 'ooman."

"Can't do it. I'm on my way to the Ritz to meet a dashing delegation from Serbia. You never
saw such gorgeous creatures. All gold and green and red, with swords, and snake-work, and glittering
boots. They'd make a musical-comedy soldier look like an undertaker."

There came a queer little look into his eyes. "But this isn't a musical comedy, dear. These
men are--Look here, Emma. I want to talk to you. Let's walk home together and have dinner decently
in our own dining room. There are things at the office--"

"S'impossible, Mr. Buck. I'm late now. And you know perfectly well there are two vice-commandants
ready to snatch my shoulder-straps."

"Emma! Emma!"

At his tone the smiling animation of her face was dimmed. "What's gone wrong?"

"Nothing. Everything. At least, nothing that I can discuss with you at the corner of Fifth
Avenue and Forty-fifth Street. When does this Serbian thing end? I'll call for you."

"There's no telling. Anyway, the Fannings will drive me home, thanks, dear."

He looked down at her. She was unbelievably girlish and distingué in the blue uniform; a straight,
slim figure, topped by an impudent cocked hat. The flannel shirt of workaday service was replaced
to-day by a severely smart affair of white silk, high-collared, stitched, expensively simple.
And yet he frowned as he looked.

"Fisk got his exemption papers to-day." With apparent irrelevance.

"Yes?" She was glancing sharply up and down the thronged street. "Better call me a cab, dear.
I'm awfully late. Oh, well, with his wife practically an invalid, and all the expense of the
baby's illness, and the funeral--The Ritz, dear. And tell him to hurry." She stepped into the
cab, a little nervous frown between her eyes.

But Buck, standing at the curb, seemed bent on delaying her. "Fisk told me the doctor said
all she needs is a couple of months at a sanitarium, where she can be bathed and massaged and
fed with milk. And if Fisk could go to a camp now he'd have a commission in no time. He's had
training, you know. He spent his vacation last summer at Plattsburg."

"But he's due on his advance spring trip in two or three weeks, isn't he?... I really must
hurry, T.A."

"Ritz," said Buck, shortly, to the chauffeur. "And hurry." He turned away abruptly, without
a backward glance. Emma's head jerked over her shoulder in surprise. But he did not turn. The
tall figure disappeared. Emma's taxi crept into the stream. But uppermost in her mind was not
the thought of Serbians, uniforms, Fisk, or Ritz, but of her husband's right hand, which, as
he turned away from the cab, had been folded tight into a fist.

She meant to ask an explanation of the clenched fingers; but the Serbians, despite their four
tragic years, turned out to be as sprightly as their uniforms, and it was past midnight when
the Fannings dropped her at her door. Her husband was rather ostentatiously asleep. As she
doffed her warlike garments, her feminine canniness warned her that this was no time for explanations.
Tomorrow morning would be better.

But next morning's breakfast turned out to be all Jock.

A letter from Grace, his wife. Grace McChesney had been Grace Gait, one of the youngest and
cleverest women advertising writers in the profession. When Jock was a cub in the Raynor office
she had been turning out compelling copy. They had been married four years. Now Jock ruled
a mahogany domain of his own in the Raynor suite overlooking the lake in the great Michigan
Avenue building. And Grace was saying, "Eat the crust, girlie. It's the crust that makes your
hair grow curly."

Emma, uniformed for work, read hasty extracts from Grace's letter. Buck listened in silence.

"You wouldn't know Jock. He's restless, irritable, moody. And the queer part of it is he doesn't
know it. He tries to be cheerful, and I could weep to see him. He has tried to cover it up
with every kind of war work from Red Crossing to Liberty Loaning, and from writing free full-page
national advertising copy to giving up his tobacco money to the smoke fund. And he's miserable.
He wants to get into it. And he ought. But you know I haven't been really husky since Buddy
came. Not ill, but the doctor says it will be another six months before I'm myself, really.
If I had only myself to think of--how simple! But two kiddies need such a lot of things. I
could get a job at Raynor's. They need writers. Jock says, bitterly, that all the worth-while
men have left. Don't think I'm complaining. I'm just trying to see my way clear, and talking
to someone who understands often clears the way."

"Well!" said Emma.

And, "Well?" said T.A.

She sat fingering the letter, her breakfast cooling before her. "Of course, Jock wants to get
into it. I wish he could. I'd be so proud of him. He'd be beautiful in khaki. But there's work
to do right here. And he ought to be willing to wait six months."

"They can't wait six months over there, Emma. They need him now."

"Oh, come, T.A.! One man--"

"Multiplied by a million. Look at Fisk. Just such another case. Look at--"

The shrill summons of the telephone cut him short. Emma's head came up alertly. She glanced
at her wrist-watch and gave a little exclamation of horror.

"That's for me! I'm half an hour late! The first time, too." She was at the telephone a second
later, explanatory, apologetic. Then back in the dining-room doorway, her cheeks flushed, tugging
at her gloves, poised for flight. "Sorry, dear. But this morning was so important, and that
letter about Jock upset me. I'm afraid I'm a rotten soldier."

"I'm afraid you are, Emma."

She stared at that. "Why--! Oh, you're still angry at something. Listen, dear--I'll call for
you at the office to-night at five, and we'll walk home together. Wait for me. I may be a few
minutes late--"

She was off. The front door slammed sharply. Buck sat very still for a long minute, staring
down at the coffee cup whose contents he did not mean to drink. The light from the window cameoed
his fine profile. And you saw that his jaw was set. His mind was a thousand miles away, in
Chicago, Illinois, with the boy who wanted to fight and couldn't.

Emma, flashing down Fifth Avenue as fast as wheels and traffic rules would permit, saw nothing
of the splendid street. Her mind was a thousand miles away, in Chicago, Illinois.

And a thousand miles away, in Chicago, Illinois, Jock McChesney, three hours later, was slamming
down the two big windows of his office. From up the street came the sound of a bugle and of
a band playing a brisk march. And his office windows looked out upon Michigan Avenue. If you
know Chicago, you know the building that housed the Raynor offices--a great gray shaft, towering
even above its giant neighbours, its head in the clouds, its face set toward the blue beauty
of Lake Michigan. Until very recently those windows of his office had been a source of joy
and inspiration to Jock McChesney. The green of Grant Park just below. The tangle of I.C. tracks
beyond that, and the great, gracious lake beyond that, as far as the eye could see. He had
seen the changes the year had brought. The lake dotted with sinister gray craft. Dog tents
in Grant Park, sprung up overnight like brown mushrooms. Men--mere boys, most of them--awkward
in their workaday clothes of office and shop, drilling, wheeling, marching at the noon hour.
And parades, and parades, and parades. At first Jock, and, in fact, the entire office staff--heads
of departments, writers, secretaries, stenographers, office boys--would suspend business and
crowd to the windows to see the pageant pass in the street below. Stirring music, khaki columns,
flags, pennants, horses, bugles. And always the Jackie band from the Great Lakes Station, its
white leggings twinkling down the street in the lead of its six-foot-six contortionistic drum-major.

By October the window-gazers, watching the parades from the Raynor windows, were mostly petticoated
and exclamatory. Jock stayed away from the window now. It seemed to his tortured mind that
there was a fresh parade hourly, and that bugles and bands sounded a taunting note.

     "Where are you! (sounded the bugle)
     Where are you?
     Where are YOU?!!!
       Where
         are
           you?
     Where--are--you-u-u-u--"

He slammed down the windows, summoned a stenographer, and gave out dictation in a loud, rasping
voice.

"Yours of the tenth at hand, and contents noted. In reply I wish to say--"

(Boom! Boom! And a boom-boom-boom!)

"--all copy for the Sans Scent Soap is now ready for your approval and will be mailed to you
to-day under separate cover. We in the office think that this copy marks a new record in soap
advertising--"

(Over there! Over there! Send the word, send the word over there!)

"Just read that last line will you, Miss Dugan?"

"Over th--I mean, 'We in the office think that this copy marks a new record in soap advertising--'"

"H'm. Yes." A moment's pause. A dreamy look on the face of the girl stenographer. Jock interpreted
it. He knew that the stenographer was in the chair at the side of his desk, taking his dictation
accurately and swiftly, while the spirit of the girl herself was far and away at Camp Grant
at Rockford, Illinois, with an olive-drab unit in an olive-drab world.

"--and, in fact, in advertising copy of any description that has been sent out from the Raynor
offices."

The girl's pencil flew over the pad. But when Jock paused for thought or breath she lifted
her head and her eyes grew soft and bright, and her foot, in its absurd high-heeled gray boot,
beat a smart left! Left! Left-right-left!

Something of this picture T.A. Buck saw in his untasted coffee cup. Much of it Emma visualized
in her speeding motor car. All of it Grace knew by heart as she moved about the new, shining
house in the Chicago suburb, thinking, planning; feeling his agony, and trying not to admit
the transparency of the look about her hands and her temples. So much for Chicago.

       *       *       *       *       *

At five o'clock Emma left the war to its own devices and dropped in at the loft building in
which Featherlooms were born and grew up. Mike, the elevator man, twisted his gray head about
at an unbelievable length to gaze appreciatively at the trim, uniformed figure.

"Haven't seen you around fur many the day, Mis' Buck."

"Been too busy, Mike."

Mike turned back to face the door. "Well, 'tis a great responsibility, runnin' this war, an'
all." He stopped at the Featherloom floor and opened the door with his grandest flourish. Emma
glanced at him quickly. His face was impassive. She passed into the reception room with a little
jingling of buckles and strap hooks.

The work day was almost ended. The display room was empty of buyers. She could see the back
of her husband's head in his office. He was busy at his desk. A stock girl was clearing away
the piles of garments that littered tables and chairs. At the window near the door Fisk, the
Western territory man, stood talking with O'Brien, city salesman. The two looked around at
her approach. O'Brien's face lighted up with admiration. Into Fisk's face there flashed a look
so nearly resembling resentment that Emma, curious to know its origin, stopped to chat a moment
with the two.

Said O'Brien, the gallant Irishman, "I'm more resigned to war this minute, Mrs. Buck, than
I've been since it began."

Emma dimpled, turned to Fisk, stood at attention. Fisk said nothing. His face was unsmiling.
"Like my uniform?" Emma asked; and wished, somehow, that she hadn't.

Fisk stared. His eyes had none of the softness of admiration. They were hard, resentful. Suddenly,
"Like it! God! I wish I could wear one!" He turned away, abruptly. O'Brien threw him a sharp
look. Then he cleared his throat, apologetically.

Emma glanced down at her own trim self--at her stitched seams, her tailored lengths, her shining
belt and buckles, her gloved hands--and suddenly and unaccountably her pride in them vanished.
Something--something--

She wheeled and made for Buck's office, her colour high. He looked up, rose, offered her a
chair. She felt strangely ill at ease there in the office to which she had given years of service.
The bookkeeper in the glass-enclosed cubby-hole across the little hall smiled and nodded and
called through the open door: "My, you're a stranger, Mrs. Buck."

"Be with you in a minute, Emma," said T.A. And turned to his desk again. She rose and strolled
toward the door, restlessly. "Don't hurry." Out in the showroom again she saw Fisk standing
before a long table. He was ticketing and folding samples of petticoats, pajamas, blouses,
and night-gowns. His cigar was gripped savagely between his teeth and his eyes squinted, half
closed through the smoke.

She strolled over to him and fingered the cotton flannel of a garment that lay under her hand.
"Spring samples?"

"Yes."

"It ought to be a good trip. They say the West is dripping money, war or no war."

"'S right."

"How's Gertie?"

"Don't get me started, Mrs. Buck. That girl!--say, I knew what she was when I married her,
and so did you. She was head stenographer here long enough. But I never really knew that kid
until now, and we've been married two years. You know what the last year has been for her;
the baby and all. And then losing him. And do you know what she says! That if there was somebody
who knew the Western territory and could cover it, she'd get a job and send me to war. Yessir!
That's Gert. We've been married two years, and she says herself it's the first really happy
time she's ever known. You know what she had at home. Why, even when I was away on my long
spring trip she used to say it wasn't so bad being alone, because there was always my home-coming
to count on. How's that for a wife!"

"Gertie's splendid," agreed Emma. And wondered why it sounded so lame.

"You don't know her. Why, when it comes to patriotism, she makes T.R. look like a pacifist.
She says if she could sell my line on the road, she'd make you give her the job so she could
send her man to war. Gert says a travelling man's wife ought to make an ideal soldier's wife,
anyway; and that if I went it would only be like my long Western trip, multiplied by about
ten, maybe. That's Gertie."

Emma was fingering the cotton-flannel garment on the table.

Buck crossed the room and stood beside her. "Sorry I kept you waiting. Three of the boys were
called to-day. It crippled us pretty badly in the shipping room. Ready?"

"Yes. Good-night, Charley. Give my love to Gertie."

"Thanks, Mrs. Buck." He picked up his cigar, took an apprehensive puff and went on ticketing
and folding. There was a grin behind the cigar now.

Into the late afternoon glitter of Fifth Avenue. Five o'clock Fifth Avenue. Flags of every
nation, save one. Uniforms of every blue from French to navy; of almost any shade save field
green. Pongee-coloured Englishmen, seeming seven feet high, to a man; aviators slim and elegant,
with walking sticks made of the propeller of their shattered planes, with a notch for every
Hun plane bagged. Slim girls, exotic as the orchids they wore, gazing limpid-eyed at these
warrior élégants. Women uniformed to the last degree of tailored exquisiteness. Girls, war
accoutred, who brought arms up in sharp salute as they passed Emma. Buck eyed them gravely,
hat and arm describing parabolas with increasing frequency as they approached Fiftieth Street,
slackening as the colourful pageant grew less brilliant, thinned, and faded into the park mists.

Emma's cheeks were a glorious rose-pink. Head high, shoulders back, she matched her husband's
long stride every step of the way. Her eyes were bright and very blue.

"There's a beautiful one, T.A.! The Canadian officer with the limp. They've all been gassed,
and shot five times in the thigh and seven in the shoulder, and yet look at 'em! What do you
suppose they were when they were new if they can look like that, damaged!"

Buck cut a vicious little semi-circle in the air with his walking stick.

"I know now how the father of the Gracchi felt, and why you never hear him mentioned."

"Nonsense, T.A. You're doing a lot." She did not intend her tone to be smug; but if she had
glanced sidewise at her husband, she might have seen the pained red mount from chin to brow.
She did not seem to sense his hurt. They went on, past the plaza now. Only a few blocks lay
between them and their home; the old brownstone house that had been New York's definition of
architectural elegance in the time of T.A. Buck, Sr.

"Tell me, Emma. Does this satisfy you--the work you're doing, I mean? Do you think you're giving
the best you've got?"

"Well, of course I'd like to go to France--"

"I didn't ask you what you'd like."

"Yes, sir. Very good, sir. I don't know what you call giving the best one has got. But you
know I work from eight in the morning until midnight, often and often. Oh, I don't say that
someone else couldn't do my work just as well. And I don't say, either, that it doesn't include
a lot of dashing up and down Fifth Avenue, and teaing at the Ritz, and meeting magnificent
Missions, and being cooed over by Lady Millionaires. But if you'd like a few statistics as
to the number of hundreds of thousands of soldiers we've canteened since last June, I'd be
pleased to oblige." She tugged at a capacious pocket and brought forth a smart leather-bound
notebook.

"Spare me! I've had all the statistics I can stand for one day at the office. I know you're
working hard. I just wondered if you didn't realize--"

They turned into their own street. "Realize what?"

"Nothing. Nothing."

Emma sighed a mock sigh and glanced up at the windows of her own house. "Oh, well, everybody's
difficult these days, T.A., including husbands. That second window shade is crooked. Isn't
it queer how maids never do.... I'll tell you what I can realize, though. I realize that we're
going to have dinner at home, reg'lar old-fashioned befo'-de-war. And I can bathe before dinner.
There's richness."

But when she appeared at dinner, glowing, radiant, her hair shiningly re-coifed, she again
wore the blue uniform, with the service cap atop her head. Buck surveyed her, unsmiling. She
seated herself at table with a little clinking of buckles and buttons. She flung her motor
gloves on a near-by chair, ran an inquiring finger along belt and collar with a little gesture
that was absurdly feminine in its imitation of masculinity. Buck did not sit down. He stood
at the opposite side of the table, one hand on his chair, the knuckles showing white where
he gripped it.

"It seems to me, Emma, that you might manage to wear something a little less military when
you're dining at home. War is war, but I don't see why you should make me feel like your orderly.
It's like being married to a policewoman. Surely you can neglect your country for the length
of time it takes to dine with your husband."

It was the bitterest speech he had made to her in the years of their married life. She flushed
a little. "I thought you knew that I was going out again immediately after dinner. I left at
five with the understanding that I'd be on duty again at 8.30."

He said nothing. He stood looking down at his own hand that gripped the chair back so tightly.
Emma sat back and surveyed her trim and tailored self with a placidity that had in it, perhaps,
a dash of malice. His last speech had cut. Then she reached forward, helped herself to an olive,
and nibbled it, head on one side.

"D'you know, T.A., what I think? H'm? I think you're jealous of your wife's uniform."

She had touched the match to the dynamite.

He looked up. At the blaze in his eyes she shrank back a little. His face was white. He was
breathing quickly.

"You're right! I am. I am jealous. I'm jealous of every buck private in the army! I'm jealous
of the mule drivers! Of the veterinarians. Of the stokers in the transports. Men!" He doubled
his hand into a fist. His fine eyes glowed. "Men!"

And suddenly he sat down, heavily, and covered his eyes with his hands.

Emma sat staring at him for a dull, sickening moment. Then she looked down at herself, horror
in her eyes. Then up again at him. She got up and came over to him.

"Why, dear--dearest--I didn't know. I thought you were satisfied. I thought you were happy. You--"

"Honey, the only man who's happy is the man in khaki. The rest of us are gritting our teeth
and pretending."

She put a hand on his shoulder. "But what do you want--what can you do that--"

He reached back over his shoulder and found her hand. He straightened. His head came up. "They've
offered me a job in Bordeaux. It isn't a fancy job. It has to do with merchandising. But I
think you know they're having a devil of a time with all the millions of bales of goods. They
need men who know materials. I ought to. I've handled cloth and clothes enough. I know values.
It would mean hard work--manual work lots of times. No pay. And happiness. For me." There was
a silence. It seemed to fill the room, that silence. It filled the house. It roared and thundered
about Emma's ears, that silence. When finally she broke it:

"Blind!" she said. "Blind! Deaf! Dumb! And crazy." She laughed, and two tears sped down her
cheeks and dropped on the unblemished blue serge uniform. "Oh, T.A.! Where have I been? How
you must have despised me. Me, in my uniform. In my uniform that was costing the Government
three strapping men. My uniform, that was keeping three man-size soldiers out of khaki. You,
Jock, and Fisk. Why didn't you tell me, dear! Why didn't you tell me!"

"I've tried. I couldn't. You've always seen things first. I couldn't ask you to go back to
the factory."

"Factory! Factory nothing! I'm going back on the road. I'm taking Fisk's Western territory.
I know the Middle West better than Fisk himself. I ought to. I covered it for ten years. I'll
pay Gertie Fisk's salary until she's able to come back to us as stenographer. We've never had
one so good. Grace can give the office a few hours a week. And we can promote O'Brien to manager
while I'm on the road."

Buck was staring at her, dully. "Grace? Now wait a minute. You're travelling too fast for a
mere man." His hand was gripping hers, tight, tight.

Their dinner was cooling on the table. They ignored it. She pulled a chair around to his. They
sat shoulder to shoulder, elbows on the cloth.

"It took me long enough to wake up, didn't it? I've got to make up for lost time. The whole
thing's clear in my mind. Now get this: Jock gets a commission. Grace and the babies pack up
and come to New York, and live right here, with me, in this house. Fisk goes to war. Gertie
gets well and comes back to work for Featherlooms. Mr. T.A. Buck goes to Bordeaux. Old Emmer
takes off her uniform and begins to serve her country--on the road."

At that he got up and began pacing the room. "I can't have you do that, dear. Why, you left
all that behind when you married me."

"Yes, but our marriage certificate didn't carry a war guarantee."

"Gad, Emma, you're glorious!"

"Glorious nothing! I'm going to earn the living for three families for a few months, until
things get going. And there's nothing glorious about that, old dear. I haven't any illusions
about what taking a line on the road means these days. It isn't travelling. It's exploring.
You never know where you're going to land, or when, unless you're travelling in a freight train.
They're cock o' the walk now. I think I'll check myself through as first-class freight. Or
send my pack ahead, with natives on foot, like an African explorer. But it'll be awfully good
for me character. And when I'm eating that criminal corn bread they serve on dining cars on
a train that's seven hours late into Duluth I'll remember when I had my picture, in uniform,
in the Sunday supplements, with my hand on the steering wheel along o' the nobility and gentry."

"Listen, dear, I can't have you--"

"Too late. Got a pencil? Let's send fifty words to Jock and Grace. They'll wire back 'No!'
but another fifty'll fetch 'em. After all, it takes more than one night letter to explain a
move that is going to change eight lives. Now let's have dinner, dear. It'll be cold, but filling."

Perhaps in the whirlwind ten days that followed a woman of less energy, less determination,
less courage and magnificent vitality might have faltered and failed in an undertaking of such
magnitude. But Emma was alert and forceful enough to keep just one jump ahead of the swift-moving
times. In a less cataclysmic age the changes she wrought within a period of two weeks would
have seemed herculean. But in this time of stress and change, when every household in every
street in every town in all the country was feeling the tremor of upheaval, the readjustment
of this little family and business group was so unremarkable as to pass unnoticed. Even the
members of the group itself, seeing themselves scattered to camp, to France, to New York, to
the Middle West, shuffled like pawns that the Great Game might the better be won, felt strangely
unconcerned and unruffled.

It was little more than two weeks after the night of Emma's awakening that she was talking
fast to keep from crying hard, as she stuffed plain, practical blue serge garments (unmilitary)
into a bellows suitcase ("Can't count on trunks these days," she had said. "I'm not taking
any chances on a clean shirtwaist"). Buck, standing in the doorway, tried hard to keep his
gaze from the contemplation of his khaki-clad self reflected in the long mirror. At intervals
he said: "Can't I help, dear?" Or, "Talk about the early Pilgrim mothers, and the Revolutionary
mothers, and the Civil War mothers! I'd like to know what they had on you, Emma."

And from Emma: "Yeh, ain't I noble!" Then, after a little pause: "This house is going to be
so full of wimmin folks it'll look like a Home for Decayed Gentlewomen. Buddy McChesney, aged
six months, is going to be the only male protector around the place. We'll make him captain
of the home guard."

"Gertie was in to-day. She says I'm a shrimp in my uniform compared to Charley. You know she
always was the nerviest little stenographer we ever had about the place, but she knows more
about Featherlooms than any woman in the shop except you. She's down to ninety-eight pounds,
poor little girl, but every ounce of it's pure pluck, and she says she'll be as good as new
in a month or two, and I honestly believe she will."

Emma was counting a neat stack of folded handkerchiefs. "Seventeen--eighteen--When she comes
back we'll have to pay her twice the salary she got when she left. But, then, you have to pay
an errand boy what you used to pay a shipping clerk, and a stock girl demands money that an
operator used to brag about--nineteen--"

Buck came over to her and put a hand on the bright hair that was rumpled, now, from much diving
into bags and suitcases and clothes closets.

"All except you, Emma. You'll be working without a salary--working like a man--like three men--"

"Working for three men, T.A. Three fighting men. I've got two service buttons already," she
glanced down at her blouse, "and Charley Fisk said I had the right to wear one for him. I'll
look like a mosaic, but I'm going to put 'em all on."

       *       *       *       *       *

The day before Emma's departure for the West Grace arrived, with bags, bundles, and babies.
A wan and tired Grace, but proud, too, and with the spirit of the times in her eyes.

"Jock!" she repeated, in answer to their questions. "My dears, he doesn't know I'm alive. I
visited him at camp the day before I left. He thinks he'll be transferred East, as we hoped.
Wouldn't that be glorious! Well, I had all sorts of intimate and vital things to discuss with
him, and he didn't hear what I was saying. He wasn't even listening. He couldn't wait until
I had finished a sentence so that he could cut in with something about his work. I murmured
to him in the moonlight that there was something I had long meant to tell him and he answered
that dammit he forgot to report that rifle that exploded. And when I said, 'Dearest, isn't
this hotel a little like the place we spent our honeymoon in--that porch, and all?' he said,
'See this feller coming, Gracie? The big guy with the moustache. Now mash him, Gracie. He's
my Captain. I'm going to introduce you. He was a senior at college when I was a fresh.'"

But the peace and the pride in her eyes belied her words.

Emma's trip, already delayed, was begun ten days before her husband's date for sailing. She
bore that, too, with smiling equanimity. "When I went to school," she said, "I thought I hated
the Second Peloponnesian War worse than any war I'd ever heard of. But I hate this one so that
I want everyone to get into it one hundred per cent., so that it'll be over sooner; and because
we've won."

They said little on their way to the train. She stood on the rear platform just before the
train pulled out. They had tried frantically to get a lower berth, but unsuccessfully. "Don't
look so tragic about it," she laughed. "It's like old times. These last three years have been
a dream--a delusion."

He looked up at her, as she stood there in her blue suit, and white blouse, and trim blue hat
and crisp veil. "Gad, Emma, it's uncanny. I believe you're right. You look exactly as you did
when I first saw you, when you came in off the road after father died and I had just taken
hold of the business."

For answer she hummed a few plaintive bars. He grinned as he recognized "Silver Threads Among
the Gold." The train moved away, gathered speed. He followed it. They were not smiling now.
She was leaning over the railing, as though to be as near to him as the fast-moving train would
allow. He was walking swiftly along with the train, as though hypnotized. Their eyes held.
The brave figure in blue on the train platform. The brave figure in khaki outside. The blue
suddenly swam in a haze before his eyes; the khaki a mist before hers. The crisp little veil
was a limp little rag when finally she went in to search for Upper Eleven.

The white-coated figure that had passed up and down the aisle unnoticed and unnoticing as she
sat hidden behind the kindly folds of her newspaper suddenly became a very human being as Emma
regained self-control, decided on dinner as a panacea, and informed the white coat that she
desired Upper Eleven made up early.

The White Coat had said, "Yas'm," and glanced up at her. Whereupon she had said:

"Why, William!"

And he, "Well, fo' de lan'! 'F 'tain't Mis' McChesney! Well, mah sakes alive, Mis' McChesney!
Ah ain't seen yo' since yo' married. Ah done heah yo' married yo' boss an' got a swell brownstone
house, an' ev'thing gran'--"

"I've got everything, William, but a lower berth to Chicago. They swore they couldn't give
me anything but an upper."

A speculative look crept into William's rolling eye. Emma recognized it. Her hand reached toward
her bag. Then it stopped. She smiled. "No. No, William. Time was. But not these days. Four
years ago I'd have slipped you fifty cents right now, and you'd have produced a lower berth
from somewhere. But I'm going to fool you. My boss has gone to war, William, and so has my
son. And I'm going to take that fifty cents and buy thrift stamps for Miss Emma McChesney,
aged three, and Mr. Buddy McChesney, aged six months. And I'll dispose my old bones in Upper
Eleven."

She went in to dinner.

At eight-thirty a soft and deferential voice sounded in her ear.

"Ah got yo' made up, Mis' McChesney."

"But this is my--"

He beckoned. He padded down the aisle with that walk which is a peculiar result of flat feet
and twenty years of swaying car. Emma followed. He stopped before Lower Six and drew aside
the curtain. It was that lower which can always be produced, magically, though ticket sellers,
Pullman agents, porters, and train conductors swear that it does not exist. The key to it is
silver, but to-night Emma McChesney Buck had unlocked it with finer metal. Gold. Pure gold.
For William drew aside the curtain with a gesture such as one of his slave ancestors might
have used before a queen of Egypt. He carefully brushed a cinder from the sheet with one gray-black
hand. Then he bowed like any courtier.

Emma sank down on the edge of the couch with a little sigh of weariness. Gratefulness was in
it, too. She looked up at him--at the wrinkled, kindly, ape-like face, and he looked down at her.

"William," she said, "war is a filthy, evil, vile thing, but it bears wonderful white flowers."

"Yas'm!" agreed William, genially, and smiled all over his rubbery, gray-black countenance.
"Yas'm!"

And who shall say he did not understand? He had known. He had about him none of the high lights
and sharp points of the city man.

"Which way was you going? The neighbourhood was rocked with surprise. In fact, the only unsurprised
party to the transaction was the dame known as Nature. She has a way of playing these tricks
on men and women for the furtherance of her own selfish ends. Might as well be dead as rottin'
here." On a Saturday afternoon you saw more boudoir caps skimming up and down the main street
in Commercial than you might see in a century of French farces. Le'see now. He tinkered and
rattled and shook things. And time deals kindly with women who have intelligent eyes and serene
brows. "Me?

THE DANCING GIRLS

When, on opening a magazine, you see a picture of a young man in uniform with a background
of assorted star-shells in full flower; a young man in uniform gazing into the eyes of a young
lady (in uniform); a young man in uniform crouching in a trench, dugout, or shell-hole, this
happens:

You skip lightly past the story of the young man in uniform; you jump hurriedly over the picture;
and you plunge into the next story, noting that it is called "The Crimson Emerald" and that,
judging from the pictures, all the characters in it wear evening clothes all the time.

Chug Scaritt took his dose of war with the best of them, but this is of Chug before and after
taking. If, inadvertently, there should sound a faintly martial note it shall be stifled at
once with a series of those stylish dots ... indicative of what the early Victorian writers
conveniently called a drawn veil.

Nothing could be fairer than that.

Chug Scaritt was (and is) the proprietor and sole owner of the Elite Garage, and he pronounced
it with a long i. Automobile parties, touring Wisconsin, used to mistake him for a handy man
about the place and would call to him, "Heh, boy! Come here and take a look at this engine.
She ain't hitting." When Chug finished with her she was hitting, all right. A medium-sized
young fellow in the early twenties with a serious mouth, laughing eyes, and a muscular grace
pretty well concealed by the grease-grimed grotesquerie of overalls. Out of the overalls and
in his tight-fitting, belted green suit and long-visored green cap and flat russet shoes he
looked too young and insouciant to be the sole owner--much less the proprietor--of anything
so successful and established as the Elite Garage.

In a town like Chippewa, Wisconsin--or in any other sort of town, for that matter--a prosperous
garage knows more about the scandals of the community than does a barber-shop, a dressmaker-by-the-day,
or a pool-room habitue. It conceals more skeletons than the catacombs. Chug Scaritt, had he
cared to open his lips and speak, might have poured forth such chronicles as to make Spoon
River sound a pæan of sweetness and light. He knew how much Old Man Hatton's chauffeur knocked
down on gas and repairs; he knew just how much the Tillotsons had gone into debt for their
twin-six, and why Emil Sauter drove to Oshkosh so often on business, and who supplied the flowers
for Mrs. Gurnee's electric. Chug didn't encourage gossip in his garage. Whenever possible he
put his foot down on its ugly head in a vain attempt to crush it. But there was something about
the very atmosphere of the place that caused it to thrive and flourish. It was like a combination
newspaper office and Pullman car smoker. Chug tried to keep the thing down but there might
generally be seen lounging about the doorway or perched on the running board of an idle car
a little group of slim, flat-heeled, low-voiced young men in form-fitting, high-waisted suits
of that peculiarly virulent shade of green which makes its wearer look as if he had been picked
before he was ripe.

They were a lean, slim-flanked crew with a feline sort of grace about them; terse of speech,
quick of eye, engine-wise, and, generally, nursing a boil just above the collar of their soft
shirt. Not vicious. Not even tough. Rather bored, though they didn't know it. In their boredom
resorting to the only sort of solace afforded boys of their class in a town of Chippewa's size:
cheap amusements, cheap girls, cheap talk. This last unless the topic chanced to be of games
or of things mechanical. Baseball, or a sweet-running engine brought out the best that was
in them. At their worst, perhaps, they stood well back in the dim, cool shade of the garage
doorway to watch how, when the girls went by in their thin summer dresses, the strong sunlight
made a transparency of their skirts. At supper time they would growl to their surprised sisters:

"Put on some petticoats, you. Way you girls run around it's enough to make a person sick."

Chug Scaritt escaped being one of these by a double margin. There was his business responsibility
on one side; his very early history on the other. Once you learn the derivation of Chug's nickname
you have that history from the age of five to twenty-five, inclusive.

Chug had been christened Floyd (she had got it out of a book) but it was an appendix rather
then an appellation. No one ever dreamed of addressing him by that misnomer, unless you except
his school teachers. Once or twice the boys had tried to use his name as a weapon, shrieking
in a shrill falsetto and making two syllables of it. He put a stop to that soon enough with
fists and feet. His virility could have triumphed over a name twice as puerile. For that matter,
I once knew a young husky named Fayette who--but that's another story.

The Scaritts lived the other side of the tracks. If you know Chippewa, or its equivalent, you
get the significance of that. Nobodys. Not only did they live the other side of the tracks;
they lived so close to them that the rush and rumble of the passing trains shook the two-story
frame cottage and rattled the crockery on the pantry shelves. The first intelligible sound
the boy made was a chesty chug-chug-chug in imitation of a panting engine tugging its freight
load up the incline toward the Junction. When Chug ran away--which was on an average of twice
daily--he was invariably to be found at the switchman's shanty or roaming about the freight
yards. It got so that Stumpy Gans, the one-legged switchman, would hoist a signal to let Mrs.
Scaritt know that Chug was safe.

He took his first mechanical toy apart, piece by piece. "Wait till your pa comes home!" his
mother had said, with terrible significance. Chug, deep in the toy's wreckage, seemed undismayed,
so Mrs. Scaritt gave him a light promissory slap and went on about her housework. That night,
before supper, Len Scaritt addressed his son with a sternness quite at variance with his easy-going
nature.

"Come here to me! Now, then, what's this about your smashing up good toys? Huh? Whatdya mean!
Christmas not two days back and here you go smashing--"

The culprit trotted over to a corner and returned with the red-painted tin thing in his hand.
It was as good as new. There may even have been some barely noticeable improvement in its locomotive
powers. Chug had merely taken it apart in order to put it together again, and he had been too
absorbed to pause long enough to tell his mother so. After that, nothing that bore wheels,
internally or externally, was safe from his investigating fingers.

It was his first velocipede that really gave him his name. As he rode up and down, his short
legs working like piston-rods gone mad, pedestrians would scatter in terror. His onrush was
as relentless as that of an engine on a track, and his hoarse, "Chug-chug! Da-r-r-n-ng! Da-r-r-n-ng!"
as he bore down upon a passerby caused that one to sidestep precipitously into the gutter (and
none too soon).

Chug earned his first real bicycle carrying a paper route for the Chippewa Eagle. It took him
two years. By the time he had acquired it he knew so much about bicycles, from ball-bearings
to handle-bars, that its possession roused very little thrill in him. It was as when a lover
has had to wait over-long for his bride. As Chug whizzed about Chippewa's streets, ringing
an unnecessarily insistent bell, you sensed that a motorcycle was already looming large in
his mechanism-loving mind. By the time he was seventeen Chug's motorcycle was spitting its
way venomously down Elm Street. And the sequence of the seasons was not more inevitable than
that an automobile should follow the motorcycle. True, he practically built it himself, out
of what appeared to be an old wash-boiler, some wire, and an engine made up of parts that embraced
every known car from Ford to Fiat. He painted it an undeniable red, hooded it like a demon
racer, and shifted to first. The thing went.

He was a natural mechanic. He couldn't spend a day with a piece of mechanism without having
speeded it up, or in some way done something to its belt, gears, wheels, motor. He was almost
never separated from a monkey-wrench or pliers, and he was always turning a nut or bolt or
screw in his grease-grimed fingers.

Right here it should be understood that Chug never became a Steinmetz or a Wright. He remained
just average-plus to the end, with something more than a knack at things mechanical; a good
deal of grease beneath his nails; and, generally, a smudge under one eye or a swipe of black
across a cheek that gave him a misleadingly sinister and piratical look. There's nothing very
magnificent, surely, in being the proprietor of a garage, even if it is the best-paying garage
in Chippewa, where six out of ten families own a car, and summer tourists are as locusts turned
beneficent.

Some time between Chug's motorcycle and the home-made automobile Len Scaritt died. The loss
to the household was social more than economic. Len had been one of those good-natured, voluble,
walrus-moustached men who make such poor providers. A carpenter by trade, he had always been
a spasmodic worker and a steady talker. His high, hollow voice went on endlessly above the
fusillade of hammers at work and the clatter of dishes at home. Politics, unions, world events,
local happenings, neighbourhood gossip, all fed the endless stream of his loquacity.

"Well, now, looka here. Take, f'rins'ance, one these here big concerns--"

After he was gone Mrs. Scaritt used to find herself listening to the silence. His ceaseless
talk had often rasped her nerves to the point of hysteria, but now she missed it as we miss
a dull ache to which we have grown accustomed.

Chug was in his second year at the Chippewa high school. He had always earned some money, afternoons
and Saturdays. Now he quit to go to work in earnest. His mother took it hard.

"I wanted you to have an education," she said. "Not just schooling. An education." Mittie Scaritt
had always had ambition and a fierce sort of pride. She had needed them to combat Len's shiftlessness
and slack good nature. They had kept the two-story frame cottage painted and tidy, had her
pride and ambition; they had managed a Sunday suit, always, for Chug; money for the contribution
box; pork roast on Sundays; and a sitting room, chill but elegant, with its plump pyramids
of pillows, embroidered with impossible daisies and carnations and violets, filling every corner.

Mrs. Scaritt had had to fight for Chug's two years of high school. "He don't need no high school,"
Len Scaritt had argued, in one of the rare quarrels between the two. "I never had none."

The retort to this was so obvious that his wife refrained from uttering it. Len continued:
"He don't go with none of my money. His age I was working 'n' had been for three years and
more. You'll be fixing to send him to college, next."

"Well, if I do? Then what?"

"Then you're crazy," said Len, without heat, as one would state a self-evident fact.

That afternoon Mrs. Scaritt went down to the office of the Eagle and inserted a neat ad.

     LACE CURTAINS DONE UP LIKE NEW. 25
     CENTS A PR. MRS. SCARITT, 639 OUTAGAMIE ST.

For years afterward you never passed the Scaritt place without seeing the long skeleton frames
of wooden curtain stretchers propped up against the back porch in the sun. Mrs. Scaritt became
famous for her curtains as an artist is known for his middle distances, his woodland green,
or his flesh tones. In time even the Hattons, who had always heretofore sent their fine curtains
to Milwaukee to be cleaned, trusted their lacy treasures to Mrs. Scaritt's expert hands.

Chug went to high school on those lace curtains. He used to call for and deliver them. He rigged
up a shelf-like device on his bicycle handlebars. On this the freshly laundered curtains reposed
in their neat paper wrappings as unwrinkled as when they had come from the stretching frame.

At seventeen he went to work in the Elite Garage. He hadn't been there a month before the owner
was saying, "Say, Chug, take a look at this here bus, will you? She don't run right but I can't
find out what's got into her."

Chug would put his ear to the heart of the car, and tap its vitals, and count its pulse-beats
as a doctor sounds you with his stethoscope. The look on his face was that of a violinist who
tries his G-string.

For the rest, he filled gas tanks, changed and pumped up tires, tested batteries, oiled tappets.
But the thing that fascinated him was the engine. An oily, blue-eyed boy in spattered overalls,
he was always just emerging from beneath a car, or crawling under it. When a new car came in,
en route--a proud, glittering affair--he always managed to get a chance at it somehow, though
the owner or chauffeur guarded it ever so jealously. The only thing on wheels that he really
despised was an electric brougham. Chippewa's well-paved streets made these vehicles possible.
Your true garage man's feeling for electrics is unprintable. The least that they called them
was juice-boxes.

At home Chug was forever rigging up labour-saving devices for his mother. The Scaritt's window-shades
always rolled; their doorbell always rang with a satisfactory zing; their suction-pump never
stuck. By the time he was twenty Chug was manager of the garage and his mother was saying,
"You're around that garage sixteen hours a day. When you're home you're everlastingly reading
those engineering papers and things. Your pa at your age had a girl for every night in the
week and two on Sundays."

"Another year or so and I can buy out old Behnke and own the place. Soon's I do I'm going to
come home in the speediest boat in the barn, and I'm going to bust up those curtain frames
into kindling wood, over my knee, and pile 'em in the backyard and make a bonfire out of 'em."

"They've been pretty good friends to us, Chug--those curtain frames."

"Um." He glanced at her parboiled fingers. "Just the same, it'll be nix with the lace curtains
for you."

Glancing back on what has been told of Chug he sounds, somehow, so much like a modern Rollo,
with a dash of Alger, that unless something is told of his social side he may be misunderstood.

Chug was a natural born dancer. There are young men who, after the music has struck up, can
start out incredibly enough by saying: "What is this, anyway--waltz or fox trot?" This was
inconceivable to Chug. He had never had a dancing lesson in his life, but he had a sense of
rhythm that was infallible. He could no more have danced out of time than he could have started
a car on high, or confused a flivver with a Twelve. He didn't look particularly swanlike as
he danced, having large, sensible feet, but they were expert at not being where someone else's
feet happened to be, and he could time a beat to the fraction of a second.

When you have practically spent your entire day sprawled under a balky car, with a piece of
dirty mat between you and the cement floor, your view limited to crank-case, transmission,
universal, fly-wheel, differential, pan, and brake-rods you can do with a bit of colour in
the evening. And just here was where Chippewa failed Chug.

He had a grave problem confronting him in his search for an evening's amusement. Chippewa,
Wisconsin, was proud of its paved streets, its thirty thousand population, its lighting system,
and the Greek temple that was the new First National Bank. It boasted of its interurban lines,
its neat houses set well back among old elms, its paper mills, its plough works, and its prosperity.
If you had told Chippewa that it was criminally ignoring Chug's crying need it would have put
you down as mad.

Boiled down, Chug Scaritt's crying need was girls. At twenty-two or three you must have girls
in your life if you're normal. Chug was, but Chippewa wasn't. It had too many millionaires
at one end and too many labourers at the other for a town of thirty thousand. Its millionaires
had their golf club, their high-powered cars, their smart social functions. They were always
running down to Chicago to hear Galli-Curci; and when it came to costume--diamond bracelet,
daring decolletage, large feather fans, and brilliant-buckled slippers--you couldn't tell their
women from the city dwellers. There is much money in paper mills and plough works.

The mill hands and their families were well-paid, thrifty, clannish Swedes, most of them, with
a liberal sprinkling of Belgians and Slavs. They belonged to all sorts of societies and lodges
to which they paid infinitesimal dues and swore lifelong allegiance.

Chug Scaritt and boys of his kind were left high and dry. So, then, when Chug went out with
a girl it was likely to be by way of someone's kitchen; or with one of those who worked in
the rag room at the paper and pulp mill. They were the very girls who switched up and down
in front of the garage evenings and Saturday afternoons. Many of them had been farm girls in
Michigan or northern Wisconsin or even Minnesota. In Chippewa they did housework. Big, robust
girls they were, miraculously well dressed in good shoes and suits and hats. They had bad teeth,
for the most part, with a scum over them; over-fond of coffee; and were rather dull company.
But they were good-natured, and hearty, and generous.

The paper-mill girls were quite another type. Theirs was a grayish pallor due to lungs dust-choked
from work in the rag room. That same pallor promised ill for future generations in Chippewa.
But they had a rather appealing, wistful fragility. Their eyes generally looked too big for
their faces. They possessed, though, a certain vivacity and diablerie that the big, slower-witted
Swede girls lacked.

When Chug felt the need of a dash of red in the evening he had little choice. In the winter
he often went up to Woodman's Hall. The dances at Woodman's Hall were of the kind advertised
at fifty cents a couple. Extra lady, twenty-five cents. Ladies without gents, thirty-five cents.
Bergstrom's two-piece orchestra. Chug usually went alone, but he escorted home one of the ladies-without-gents.
It was not that he begrudged the fifty cents. Chug was free enough with his money. He went
to these dances on a last-minute impulse, almost against his will, and out of sheer boredom.
Once there he danced every dance and all the encores. The girls fought for him. Their manner
of dancing was cheek to cheek, in wordless rhythm. His arm about the ample waist of one of
the Swedish girls, or clasping close the frail form of one of the mill hands, Chug would dance
on and on, indefatigably, until the music played "Home Sweet Home." The conversation, if any,
varied little.

"The music's swell to-night," from the girl.

"Yeh."

"You're some little dancer, Chug, I'll say. Honest, I could dance with you forever." This with
a pressure of the girl's arm, and spoken with a little accent, whether Swedish, Belgian, or Slavic.

"They all say that."

"Crazy about yourself, ain't you!"

"Not as crazy as I am about you," with tardy gallantry.

He was very little stirred, really.

"Yeh, you are. I wish you was. It makes no never minds to you who you're dancing with, s'long's
you're dancing."

This last came one evening as a variant in the usual formula. It startled Chug a little, so
that he held the girl off the better to look at her. She was Wanda something-or-other, and
anybody but Chug would have been alive to the fact that she had been stalking him for weeks
with a stolid persistence.

"Danced with you three times to-night, haven't I?" he demanded. He was rather surprised to
find that this was so.

"Wisht it was thirty."

That was Wanda. Her very eagerness foiled her. She cheapened herself. When Chug said, "Can
I see you home?" he knew the answer before he put the question. Too easy to get along with,
Wanda. Always there ahead of time, waiting, when you made a date with her. Too ready to forgive
you when you failed to show up. Telephoned you when you were busy. Didn't give a fellow a chance
to come half way, but went seven eighths of it herself. An ignorant, kindly, dangerous girl,
with the physical development of a woman and the mind of a child. There were dozens like her
in Chippewa.

If the girls of his own class noticed him at all it was the more to ignore him as a rather
grimy mechanic passing briefly before their vision down Outagamie Street on his way to and
from dinner. He was shy of them. They had a middle-class primness which forbade their making
advances even had they been so inclined. Chug would no more have scraped acquaintance with
them than he would have tried to flirt with Angie Hatton, Old Man Hatton's daughter, and the
richest girl in Chippewa--so rich that she drove her own car with the chauffeur stuck up behind.

You didn't have to worry about Wanda and her kind. There they were, take them or leave them.
They expected you to squeeze their waist when you danced with them, and so you did. You didn't
have to think about what you were going to say to them.

Mrs. Scaritt suspected in a vague sort of way that Chug was "running with the hired girls."
The thought distressed her. She was too smart a woman to nag him about it. She tried diplomacy.

"Why don't you bring some young folks home to eat, Chug? I like to fuss around for company."
She was a wonderful cook, Mrs. Scaritt, and liked to display her skill.

"Who is there to bring?"

"The boys and girls you go around with. Who is it you're always fixing up for, evenings?"

"Nobody."

Mrs. Scaritt tried another tack.

"I s'pose this house isn't good enough for 'em? Is that it?"

"Good enough!" Chug laughed rather grimly. "I'd like to know what's the matter with it!"

There was, as a matter of fact, nothing the matter with it. It was as spick and span as paint
and polish could make it. The curtain-stretching days were long past. There had even been talk
of moving out of the house by the tracks, but at the last moment Mrs. Scaritt had rebelled.

"I'll miss the sound of the trains. I'm used to 'em. It's got so I can tell just where my right
hand'll be when the seven fifty-two goes by in the morning, and I've got used to putting on
the potatoes when I hear the 'leven-forty. Let's stay, Chug."

So they had stayed. Gradually they had added an improvement here, a convenience there, as Chug's
prosperity grew, until now the cottage by the tracks was newly painted, bathroomed, electric-lighted,
with a cement walk front and back and a porch with a wicker swing and flower baskets. Chug
gave his mother more housekeeping money than she needed, though she, in turn, served him meals
that would have threatened the waist-line of an older and less active man. There was a banana
pie, for instance (it sounds sickish, but wait!) which she baked in a deep pan, and over which
she poured a golden-brown custard all flecked with crusty melted sugar. You took a bite and
lo! it had vanished like a sweet dewdrop, leaving in your mouth a taste as of nectar, and clover-honey,
and velvet cream.

Mrs. Scaritt learned to gauge Chug's plans for the evening by his ablutions. Elaborate enough
at any time, on dance nights they amounted to a rite. In the old days Chug's father had always
made a brief enough business of the process he called washing up. A hand-basin in the kitchen
sink or on the back-porch bench sufficed. The noises he made were out of all proportion to
the results obtained. His snufflings, and snortings, and splashings were like those of a grampus
at play. When he emerged from them you were surprised to find that he had merely washed his face.

Chug had grease to fight. He had learned how in his first days at the garage. His teacher had
been old Rudie, a mechanic who had tinkered around automobiles since their kerosene days, and
who knew more about them than their inventor. Soap and water alone were powerless against the
grease and carbon and dust that ground themselves into Chug's skin. First, he lathered himself
with warm, soapy water. Then, while arms, neck, and face were still wet, he covered them with
oil--preferably lubricating oil, medium. Finally he rubbed sawdust over all; great handfuls
of it. The grease rolled out then, magically, leaving his skin smooth and white. Old Rudie,
while advocating this process, made little use of it. He dispatched the whole grimy business
by the simple method of washing in gasoline guaranteed to take the varnish off a car fender.
It seemed to leave Rudie's tough hide undevastated.

At twenty-four Chug Scaritt was an upstanding, level-headed, and successful young fellow who
worked hard all day and found himself restless and almost irritable toward evening. He could
stay home and read, or go back to the garage, though after eight things were very quiet. For
amusement there were the pool shack, the cheap dances, the street corner, the Y.M.C.A. This
last had proved a boon. The swimming pool, the gym, the reading room, had given Chug many happy,
healthful hours. But, after all, there was something--

Chug didn't know it was girls--girls you could talk to, and be with, and take around. But it
was. After an hour in the pool, or around the reading table, or talking and smoking, he usually
drifted out into the quiet street. He could go home. Or there was Wanda. If he went home he
found himself snapping rather irritably at his mother, for no reason at all. Ashamed of doing
it. Powerless, somehow, to stop.

He took to driving in the evening: long drives along the country roads, his cap pulled low
over his eyes, the wind blowing fresh in his face. He used to cover mile on mile, sitting slumped
low on his spine, his eyes on the road; the engine running sweet and true. Sometimes he took
Wanda along, or one of the mill girls. But not often. They were disappointed if you didn't
drive with one arm around them. He liked being alone. It soothed him.

It was thus that he first met the Weld girl. The Weld girl was the plain daughter of the Widow
Weld. The Widow Weld was a musical-comedy sort of widow in French-heeled, patent-leather slippers
and girlish gowns. When you met her together with her daughter Elizabeth you were supposed
to say, "Not mother and daughter! Surely not! Sisters, of course." Elizabeth was twenty-four
and not a success. At the golf-club dances on Saturday night she would sit, unsought, against
the wall while her skittish mother tripped it with the doggish bachelors. Sometimes a man would
cross the floor toward her and her heart would give a little leap, but he always asked the
girl seated two chairs away. Elizabeth danced much better than her mother--much better than
most girls, for that matter. But she was small, and dark, and rather shy, and wore thick glasses
that disguised the fineness of her black-lashed gray eyes. Now and then her mother, flushed
and laughing, would come up and say, "Is my little girl having a good time?" The Welds had
no money, but they belonged to Chippewa's fashionable set. There were those who lifted significant
eyebrows at mention of the Widow Weld's name, and it was common knowledge that no maid would
stay with her for any length of time because of the scanty provender. The widow kowtowed shamelessly
to the moneyed ones of Chippewa, flattering the women, flirting with the men. Elizabeth had
no illusions about her mother, but she was stubbornly loyal to her. Her manner toward her kittenish
parent was rather sternly maternal. But she was the honest sort that congenitally hates sham
and pretence. She was often deliberately rude to the very people toward whom her mother was
servile. Her strange friendship with Angie Hatton, the lovely and millioned, was the one thing
in Elizabeth's life of which her Machiavellian mother approved.

"Betty, you practically stuck out your tongue at Mr. Oakley!" This after a dance at which Elizabeth
had been paired off, as usual, with the puffy and red-eyed old widower of that name.

"I don't care. His hands are fat and he creaks when he breathes."

"Next to Hatton, he's the richest man in Chippewa. And he likes you."

"He'd better not!" She spat it out, and the gray eyes blazed behind the glasses. "I'd rather
be plastered up against the wall all my life than dance with him. Fat!"

"Well, my dear, you're no beauty, you know," with cruel frankness.

"I'm not much to look at," replied Elizabeth, "but I'm beautiful inside."

"Rot!" retorted the Widow Weld, inelegantly.

Had you lived in Chippewa all this explanation would have been unnecessary. In that terrifying
way small towns have, it was known that of all codfish aristocracy the Widow Weld was the piscatorial
pinnacle.

When Chug Scaritt first met the Weld girl she was standing out in the middle of the country
road at ten-thirty P.M., her arms outstretched and the blood running down one cheek. He had
been purring along the road toward home, drowsy and lulled by the motion and the April air.
His thoughts had been drowsy, too, and disconnected.

"If I can rent Bergstrom's place next door when their lease is up I'll knock down the partition
and put in auto supplies. There's big money in 'em.... Guess if it keeps on warm like this
we can plant the garden next week.... That was swell cake Ma had for supper.... What's that
in the road! What's!--"

Jammed down the foot-brake. Jerked back the emergency. A girl standing in the road. A dark
mass in the ditch by the road-side. He was out of his car. He recognized her as the Weld girl.

"'S'matter?"

"In the ditch. She's hurt. Quick!"

"Whose car?" Chug was scrambling down the banks.

"Hatton's. Angie Hatton's."

"Gosh!"

Over by the fence, where she had been flung, Angie Hatton was found sitting up, dizzily, and
saying, "Betty! Betty!" in what she supposed was a loud cry but which was really a whisper.

"I'm all right, dear. I'm all right. Oh, Angie, are you--"

She was cut and bruised, and her wrist had been broken. The two girls clung to each other,
wordlessly. The thing was miraculous, in view of the car that lay perilously tipped on its fender.

"You're a lucky bunch," said Chug. "Who was driving?"

"I was," said Angie Hatton.

"It wasn't her fault," the Weld girl put in, quickly. "We were coming from Winnebago. She's
a wonderful driver. We met a farm-wagon coming toward us. One of those big ones. The middle
of the road. Perhaps he was asleep. He didn't turn out. We thought he would, of course. At
the last minute we had to try for the ditch. It was too steep."

"Anyway, you're nervy kids, both of you. I'll have you both home in twenty minutes. We'll have
to leave five thousand dollars' worth of car in the road till morning. It'll be all right."

He did get them home in twenty minutes and the five thousand dollars' worth of car was still
lying repentantly in the ditch when morning came. Old Man Hatton himself came into the garage
to thank Chug the following day. Chug met him in overalls, smudge-faced as he was. Old Man
Hatton put out his hand. Chug grinned and looked at his own grease-grimed paw.

"That's all right," said Old Man Hatton, and grasped it firmly. "Want to thank you."

"That's all right," said Chug. "Didn't do a thing."

"No business driving alone that hour of the night. Girls nowadays--" He looked around the garage.
"Work here, I suppose?"

"Yessir."

"If there's anything I can do for you? Over at the mill."

"Guess not," said Chug.

"Treat you right here, do they?"

"Fine."

"Let's see. Who owns this place?"

"I do."

Old Man Hatton's face broke into a sunburst of laugh-wrinkles. He threw back his head and went
the scale from roar to chuckle. "One on me. Pretty good. Have to tell Angie that one."

Chug walked to the street with him. "Your daughter, she's got a lot of nerve, all right. And
that girl with her--Weld. Say, not a whimper out of her and the blood running down her face.
She all right?"

"Cut her head a little. They're both all right. Angie wouldn't even stay in bed. Well, as I
say, if there's anything--?"

Chug flushed a little. "Tell you what, Mr. Hatton. I'm working on a thing that'll take the
whine out of the Daker."

Old Man Hatton owned the Daker Motor plant among other things. The Daker is the best car for
the money in the world. Not much for looks but everything in the engine. And everyone who has
ever owned one knows that its only fault is the way its engine moans. Daker owners hate that
moan. When you're going right it sounds a pass between a peanut roaster and a banshee with
bronchitis. Every engineer in the Daker plant had worked over it.

"Can't be done," said Old Man Hatton.

"Another three months and I'll show you."

"Hope you do, son. Hope you do."

But in another three months Chug Scaritt was one of a million boys destined to take off a pink-striped
shirt, a nobby belted suit, and a long-visored cap to don a rather bob-tailed brown outfit.
It was some eighteen months later before he resumed the chromatic clothes with an ardour out
of all proportion to their style and cut. But in the interval between doffing pink-striped
shirt and donning pink-striped shirt....

No need to describe Camp Sibley, two miles outside Chippewa, and the way it grew miraculously,
overnight, into a khaki city. No going into detail concerning the effective combination formed
by Chug and a machine gun. These things were important and interesting. But perhaps not more
interesting than the seemingly unimportant fact that in July following that April Chug was
dancing blithely and rhythmically with Elizabeth Weld, and saying, "Angie Hatton's a smooth
little dancer, all right; but she isn't in it with you."

For Chippewa, somehow, had fused. Chippewa had forgotten sets, sections, cliques, factions,
and parties, and formed a community. It had, figuratively, wiped out the railroad tracks, together
with all artificial social boundaries. Chug Scaritt, in uniform, must be kept happy. He must
be furnished with wholesome recreation, fun, amusement, entertainment. There sprang up, seemingly
overnight, a great wooden hall in Elm Street, on what had been a vacant lot. And there, by
day or by night, were to be had music, and dancing, and hot cakes, and magazines, and hot coffee,
and ice cream and girls. Girls! Girls who were straight, and slim, and young, and bright-eyed,
and companionable. Girls like Angie Hatton. Girls like Betty Weld. Betty Weld, who no longer
sat against the wall at the golf-club dances and prayed in her heart that fat old Oakley wasn't
coming to ask her to dance.

Betty Weld was so popular now that the hostess used to have to say to her, in a tactful aside,
"My dear, you've danced three times this evening with the Scaritt boy. You know that's against
the rules."

Betty knew it. So did Chug. Betty danced so lightly that Chug could hardly feel her in his
arms. He told her that she ran sweet and true like the engine of a high-powered car, and with
as little apparent effort. She liked that, and understood.

It was wonderful how she understood. Chug had never known that girls could understand like
that. She talked to you, straight. Looked at you, straight. Was interested in the things that
interested you. No waist-squeezing here. No cheap banter. You even forgot she wore glasses.

"I'm going to try to get over."

"Say, you don't want to do that."

"I certainly do. Why not?"

"You're--why, you're too young. You're a girl. You're--"

"I'm as old as you, or almost. They're sending heaps of girls over to work in the canteens,
and entertain the boys. If they'll take me. I'll have to lie six months on my age."

Rudie was in charge of the garage now. "That part of it's all right," Chug confided to the
Weld girl. "Only thing that worries me is Ma. She hasn't peeped, hardly, but I can see she's
pretty glum, all right."

"I don't know your mother," said the Weld girl.

"Thasso," absent-mindedly, from Chug.

"I'd--like to."

Chug woke up. "Why, say, that'd be fine! Listen, why don't you come for Sunday dinner. I've
got a hunch we'll shove off next week, and this'll be my last meal away from camp. They haven't
said so, but I don't know--maybe you wouldn't want to, though. Maybe you--we live the other
side of the tracks--"

"I'd love to," said the Weld girl. "If you think your mother would like to have me."

"Would she! And cook! Say!"

The Widow Weld made a frightful fuss. Said that patriotism was all right, but that there were
limits. Betty put on her organdie and went.

It began with cream soup and ended with shortcake. Even Chug realized that his mother had outdone
herself. After his second helping of shortcake he leaned back and said, "Death, where is thy
sting?" But his mother refused to laugh at that. She couldn't resist telling Miss Weld that
it was plain food but that she hoped she'd enjoyed it.

Elizabeth Weld leaned forward. "Mrs. Scaritt, it's the best dinner I've ever eaten."

Mrs. Scaritt flushed a little, but protested, politely: "Oh, now! You folks up in the East End--"

"Not the Welds. Mother and I are as poor as can be. Everybody knows that. We have lots of doylies
and silver on the table, but very little to eat. We never could afford a meal like this. We're
sort of crackers-and-tea codfish, really."

"Oh, now, Miss Weld!" Chug's mother was aghast at such frankness. But Chug looked at the girl.
She looked at him. They smiled understandingly at each other.

An hour or so later, after Elizabeth had admired the vegetable garden, the hanging flower-baskets,
the new parlour curtains ("I used to do 'em up for folks in town," said Mrs. Scaritt, "so's
Chug could go to high school." And "I know it. That's what I call splendid," from the girl),
she went home, escorted by Chug.

Chug's hunch proved a good one. In a week he was gone. Thirteen months passed before he saw
Elizabeth Weld again. When he did, Chippewa had swung back to normal. The railroad tracks were
once more boundary lines.

Chug Scaritt went to France to fight. Three months later Elizabeth Weld went to France to dance.
They worked hard at their jobs, these two. Perhaps Elizabeth's task was the more trying. She
danced indefatigably, tirelessly, magnificently. Miles, and miles, and miles of dancing. She
danced on rough plank floors with cracks an inch wide between the boards. She danced in hospitals,
châteaux, canteens, huts; at Bordeaux, Verdun, Tours, Paris. Five girls, often, to five hundred
boys. Every two weeks she danced out a pair of shoes. Her feet, when she went to bed at night,
were throbbing, burning, aching, swollen. No hot water. You let them throb, and burn, and ache,
and swell until you fell asleep. She danced with big blond bucks, and with little swarthy doughboys
from New York's East Side. She danced with privates, lieutenants, captains; and once with a
general. But never a dance with Chug.

Once or twice she remembered those far-away Chippewa golf-club dances. She was the girl who
used to sit there against the wall! She used to look away with pretended indifference when
a man crossed the floor toward her--her heart leaping a little. He would always go to the girl
next to her. She would sit there with a set smile on her face, and the taste of ashes in her
mouth. And those shoddy tulle evening dresses her mother had made her wear! Girlish, she had
called them. A girl in thick-lensed glasses should not wear tulle evening frocks with a girlish
note. Elizabeth had always felt comic in them. Yet there she had sat, shrinking lest the odious
Oakley, of the fat white fingers and the wheezy breath, should ask her to dance.

She reflected, humorously, that if the miles of dancing she had done in the past year were
placed end to end, as they do it in the almanac's fascinating facts, they must surely reach
to Mars and return.

Whenever the hut door opened to admit a tall, graceful, lean brown figure her heart would give
a little leap and a skip. As the door did this on an average of a thousand times daily her
cardiac processes might be said to have been alarmingly accelerated.

Sometimes--though they did not know it--she and Chug were within a half hour's ride of each
other. In all those months they never once met.

Elizabeth Weld came back to Chippewa in June. The First National Bank Building seemed to have
shrunk; and she thought her mother looked old in that youthful hat. But she was glad to be
home and said so.

"It has been awful here," said the Widow Weld. "Nothing to do but sew at the Red Cross shop;
and no sugar or white bread."

"It must have been," agreed Elizabeth.

"They're giving a dance for you--and dinner--a week from Saturday, at the golf club. In your
honour."

"Dance!" Elizabeth closed her eyes, faintly. Then, "Who is?"

"Well, Mr. Oakley's really giving it--that is, it was his idea. But the club wanted to tender
some fitting--"

"I won't go."

"Oh, yes, you will."

Elizabeth did not argue the point. She had two questions to ask.

"Have the boys come back?"

"What boys?"

"The--the boys."

"Some of them. You know about dear Harry Hatton, of course. Croix de--"

"What have they done with the Khaki Club, where they used to give the dances?"

"Closed. Long ago. There was some talk of keeping it open for a community centre, or something,
but it fell through. Now, Betty, you'll have to have a dress for Saturday night, I wonder if
that old chiffon, with a new--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Chug Scaritt came home in September. The First National Bank Building seemed, somehow, to have
shrunk. And his mother hadn't had all that gray hair when he left. He put eager questions about
the garage. Rudie had made out, all right, hadn't he? Good old scout.

"The boys down at the garage are giving some kind of a party for you. Old Rudie was telling
me about it. I've got a grand supper for you to-night, Chug."

"Where's this party? I don't want any party."

"Woodman's Hall, I think they said. There was some girl called up yesterday. Wanda, her name
sounded like. I couldn't--"

"Don't they give dances any more at the Soldiers' Club down on Elm?"

"Oh, that's closed, long. There was some talk of using it for what they called a community
club. The Eagle was boosting for a big new place. What they called a Community Memorial Centre.
But I don't know. It kind of fell through, I guess."

"I won't go," said Chug, suddenly.

"Go where, Chug?"

But instead of answering, Chug put his second question.

"Have you seen--is that--I wonder if that Weld girl's back."

"My, yes. Papers were full of it. Old Oakley gave her a big dance, and all, at the Country
Club. They say--"

A week later, his arm about Wanda's big, yielding waist, he was dancing at Woodman's Hall.
There was about her a cheap, heavy scent. She had on a georgette blouse and high-heeled shoes.
She clung to Chug and smiled up at him. Wanda had bad teeth--yellow, with a sort of scum over them.

"I sure was lonesome for you, Chug. You're some dancer, I'll say. Honest, I could dance with
you all night." A little pressure of her arm.

Somewhere in the recesses of his brain a memory cell broke. Dimly he heard himself saying,
"Oh, they all tell me that."

"Crazy about yourself, ain't you!"

"Not as crazy as I am about you," with tardy gallantry.

Then, suddenly, Chug stopped dancing. He stopped, and stepped back from Wanda's arms. Bergstrom's
two-piece orchestra was in the throes of its jazziest fox-trot number. Chug stood there a moment,
in the centre of the floor, staring at Wanda's face that was staring back at him in vacuous
surprise. He turned, without a word, and crossed the crowded floor, bumping couples blindly
as he went. And so down the rickety wooden stairs, into the street, and out into the decent
darkness of Chippewa's night.

                           THE END

