Between Galway and Cong and Kerrycullion, Hunter was kept going in these days, so as to obtain
always the latest information for his master. For, though the neighbourhood of Morony Castle
was now supposed to be quiet, and though the Captain was not at the moment on active service,
Hunter was still allowed to remain with him. And, indeed, Captain Clayton's opinion was esteemed
so highly, that, though he could do nothing, he was in truth on active service. "They are sticking
to their story, all through?" he asked Hunter, or rather communicated the fact to Hunter for
his benefit.

"Oh, yes! sir; they stick to their story. There is no doubt about them now. They can't go back."

"And that boy can talk now?"

"Yes, sir; he can talk a little."

"And what he says agrees with the three men? There will be no more murders in that county,
Hunter, or in County Galway either. When they have once learned to think it possible that one
man may tell of another, there will be an end to that little game. But they must hang them
of course."

"Oh, yes! sir," said Hunter. "I'd hang them myself; the whole ten of them, rather than keep
them waiting."

"The trial is to be in Dublin. Before that day comes we shall find what they do about Lax.
I don't suppose they will want me; or if they did, for the matter of that, I could go myself
as well as ever."

"You could do nothing of the kind, Captain Clayton," said Edith, who was sitting there. "It
is absurd to hear you talk in such a way."

"I don't suppose he could just go up to Dublin, miss," said Hunter.

"Not for life and death?" roared the sick man.

"I suppose you could for life and death," said Hunter,--with a little caution.

"For his own death he could," said Edith. "But it's the death of other people that he is thinking
of now."

"And you, what are you thinking of?"

"To tell the truth, just at this moment I was thinking of yours. You are here under our keeping,
and as long as you remain so, we are bound to do what we can to keep you from killing yourself;
you ought to be in your bed."

"Tucked up all round,--and you ought to be giving me gruel." Then Hunter simpered and went
away. He generally did go away when the love-scenes began.

"You could give one something which would cure me instantly."

"No, I could not! There are no such instant cures known in the medical world for a man who
has had a hole right through him."

"That bullet will certainly be immortal."

"But you will not if you talk of going up to Dublin."

"Edith, a kiss would cure me."

"Captain Clayton, you are in circumstances which should prevent you from alluding to any such
thing. I am here to nurse you, and I should not be insulted."

"That is true," he said. "And if it be an insult to tell you what a kiss would do for me, I
withdraw the word. But the feeling it would convey, that you had in truth given yourself to
me, that you were really, really my own, would I think cure me, though a dozen bullets had
gone through me."

Then when Ada had come down, Edith went to her bedroom, and kissed the pillow, instead of him.
Oh, if it might be granted to her to go to him, and frankly to confess, that she was all, all
his own! And she felt, as days went on, she would have to yield, though honour still told her
that she should never do so.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

THE NEW ARISTOCRACY FAILS.

From this moment the mystery of the new aristocracy began to fade away, and get itself abolished.
Men and women began to feel that there might be something worse in store for them than the
old course of policemen, juries, and judges. It had seemed, at first, as though these evil
things could be brought to an end, and silenced altogether as far as their blessed country
was concerned. A time was coming in which everyone was to do as he pleased, without any fear
that another should tell of him. Though a man should be seen in the broad daylight cutting
the tails off half a score of oxen it would be recognised in the neighbourhood as no more than
a fair act of vengeance, and nothing should be told of the deed, let the policemen busy themselves
as they might. And the beauty of the system consisted in the fact that the fear of telling
was brought home to the minds of all men, women, and children. Though it was certain that a
woman had seen a cow's tail mangled, though it could be proved beyond all doubt that she was
in the field when the deed was done, yet if she held her peace no punishment would await her.
The policeman and the magistrate could do nothing to her. But Thady O'Leary, the man who had
cut a cow's tail off, could certainly punish her. If nothing else were done she could be boycotted,
or, in other words, not allowed to buy or sell the necessaries of life. Or she could herself
be murdered, as had happened to Pat Gilligan. The whole thing had seemed to run so smoothly!

But now there had come, or would soon come, a change o'er the spirit of the dream. The murder
of Pat Gilligan, though it had made one in the necessary sequence of events, one act in the
course of the drama which, as a whole, had appeared to be so perfect, seemed to them all to
have about it something terrible. No one knew what offence Pat Gilligan had given, or why he
had been condemned. Each man began to tremble as he thought that he too might be a Pat Gilligan,
and each woman that she might be a Mrs. Kelly. It was better to go back to the police and the
magistrates than this!

I do not know that we need lean too heavily on the stupidity of the country's side in not having
perceived that this would be so. The country's side is very slow in perceiving the course which
things will take. These ten murderers had been brought together, each from fear of the others;
and they must have felt that though they were ten,--a number so great when they considered
the employment on which they were engaged as to cause horror to the minds of all of them,--the
ten could not include all who should have been included. Had the other three been taken in,
if that were possible, how much better it would have been! But the desire for murder had not
gone so far,--its beauty had not been so perfectly acknowledged as to make it even yet possible
to comprise a whole parish in destroying one family.

Then the three had seen that the whole scheme, the mystery of the thing, the very plan upon
which it was founded, must be broken down and thrown to the winds. And we can imagine that,
when the idea first came upon the minds of those three, that the entire family of the Kellys
was to be sacrificed to stop the tongue of one talkative old woman, a horror must have fallen
upon them as they recognised the duty which was incumbent on them. The duty of saving those
six unfortunates they did not recognise. They could not screw themselves up to the necessary
pitch of courage to enable them to enter in among loaded pistols and black-visaged murderers.
The two women and the children had to die, though the three men were so close to them; so close
as to have been certainly able to save them, or some of them, had they rushed into the cabin
and created the confusion of another advent. To this they could not bring themselves, for are
not the murderers armed? But an awful horror must have crept round their minds as they thought
of the self-imposed task they had undertaken. They waited until the murders had been completed,
and then they went back home and told the police.

From this moment the mystery by which murders in County Galway and elsewhere were for a short
period protected was over in Ireland. Men have not seen, as yet, how much more lovely it is
to tell frankly all that has been done, to give openly such evidence as a man may have to police
magistrates and justices of the peace, than to keep anything wrapped within his own bosom.
The charm of such outspoken truth does not reconcile itself at once to the untrained mind;
but the fact of the loveliness does gradually creep in, and the hideous ugliness of the other
venture. On the minds of those men of Kerrycullion something of the ugliness and something
of the loveliness must have made itself apparent. And when this had been done it was not probable
that a return to the utter ugliness of the lie should be possible. Whether the ten be hanged,--to
the intense satisfaction of Hunter and his master,--or some fewer number, such as may suffice
the mitigated desire for revenge which at present is burning in the breasts of men, the thing
will have been done, and the mystery with all its beauty will have passed away.

At Castle Morony the beginning of the passing away of the mystery was hailed with great delight.
It took place in this wise. A little girl who had been brought up there in the kitchen, and
had reached the age of fifteen under the eyes of Ada and Edith,--a slip of a girl, whose feet
our two girls had begun to trammel with shoes and stockings, and who was old enough to be proud
of the finery though she could not bear the confinement,--had gone under the system of boycotting,
when all the other servants had gone also. Peter, who was very stern in his discipline to the
younger people, had caught hold of her before she went, and had brought her to Mr. Jones, recommending
that at any rate her dress should be stripped from her back, and her shoes and stockings from
her feet. "If you war to wallop her, sir, into the bargain, it would be a good deed done,"
Peter had said to his master.

"Why should I wallop her for leaving my service?"

"She ain't guv' no notice," said the indignant Peter.

"And if I were to wallop you because you had taken it into your stupid head to leave me at
a moment's notice, should I be justified in doing so?"

"There is differences," said Peter, drawing himself up.

"You are stronger, you mean, and Feemy Carroll is weak. Let her go her own gait as she pleases.
How am I to take upon myself to say that she is not right to go? And for the shoes and stockings,
let them go with her, and the dress also, if I am supposed to have any property in it. Fancy
a Landleaguer in Parliament asking an indignant question as to my detaining forcibly an unwilling
female servant. Let them all go; the sooner we learn to serve ourselves the better for us.
I suppose you will go too before long."

This had been unkind, and Peter had made a speech in which he had said so. But the little affair
had taken place in the beginning of the boycotting disarrangements, and Mr. Jones had been
bitter in spirit. Now the girls had shown how deftly they could do the work, and had begun
to talk pleasantly how well they could manage to save the wages and the food. "It's my food
you'll have to save, and my wages," said Captain Clayton. But this had been before he had a
hole driven through him, and he was only awed by a frown.

But now news was brought in that Feemy had crept in at the back door. "Drat her imperence,"
said Peter, who brought in the news. "It's like her ways to come when she can't get a morsel
of wholesome food elsewhere."

Then Ada and Edith had rushed off to lay hold of the delinquent, who had indeed left a feeling
in the hearts of her mistresses of some love for her little foibles. "Oh! Feemy, so you've
come back again," said Ada, "and you've grown so big!" But Feemy cowered and said not a word.
"What have you been doing all the time?" said Edith. "Miss Ada and I have had to clean out
all the pots and all the pans, and all  the gridirons, though for the matter of that there
has been very little to cook on them." Then Ada asked the girl whether she intended to come
back to her old place.

"If I'm let," said the girl, bursting into tears.

"Where are the shoes and stockings?" said Ada.

But the girl only wept.

"Of course you shall come back, shoes or no shoes. I suppose times have been too hard with
you at home to think much of shoes or stockings. Since your poor cousin was shot in Galway
court-house,"--for Feemy was a cousin of the tribe of Carrolls,--"I fear it hasn't gone very
well with you all." But to this Feemy had only answered by renewed sobs. She had, however,
from that moment taken up her residence as of yore in the old house, and had gone about her
business just as though no boycotting edict had been pronounced against Castle Morony.

And gradually the other servants had returned, falling back into their places almost without
a word spoken. One boy, who had in former days looked after the cows, absolutely did come and
drive them in to be milked one morning without saying a word.

"And who are you, you young deevil?" said Peter to him.

"I'm just Larry O'Brien."

"And what business have you here?" said Peter. "How many months ago is it since last year you
took yourself off without even a word said to man or woman? Who wants you back again now, I
wonder?"

The boy, who had grown half-way to a man since he had taken his departure, made no further
answer, but went on with the milking of his cows.

And the old cook came back again from Galway, though she came after the writing of a letter
which must have taken her long to compose, and the saying of many words.

"Honoured Miss," the letter went, "I've been at Peter Corcoran's doing work any time these
twelve months. And glad I've been to find a hole to creep into. But Peter Corcoran's house
isn't like Castle Morony, and so I've told him scores of times. But Peter is one of them Landleaguers,
and is like to be bruk', horse, foot, and dragoons, bekaise he wouldn't serve the gentry. May
the deevil go along with him, and with his pollytiks. Sure you know, miss, they wouldn't let
me stay at Castle Morony. Wasn't one side in pollitiks the same as another to an old woman
like me, who only wants to 'arn her bit and her sup? I don't care the vally of a tobacco-pipe
for none of them now. So if the squire would take me back again, may God bless him for iver
and iver, say I." Then this letter was signed Judy Corcoran,--for she too was of the family
of the Corcorans,--and became the matter for many arrangements, in the course of which she
once more was put into office as cook at Castle Morony.

Then Edith wrote the following letter to her friend Rachel, who still remained in London, partly
because of her health and partly because her father had not yet quite settled his political
affairs. But that shall be explained in another chapter.

   DEAREST RACHEL,

   Here we are beginning to see daylight, after having been
   buried in Cimmerian darkness for the best part of two
   years. I never thought how possible it would be to get
   along without servants to look after us, and how much
   of the pleasures of life might come without any of its
   comforts. Ada and I for many months have made every bed
   that has been slept in in the house, till we have come to
   think that the making of beds is the proper employment for
   ladies. And every bit of food has been cooked by us, till
   that too has become ladylike in our eyes. And it has been
   done for papa, who has, I think, liked his bed and his
   dinner all the better, because they have passed through
   his daughters' hands. But, dear papa! I'm afraid he has
   not borne the Cimmerian darkness as well as have we, who
   have been young enough to look forward to the return of
   something better.

   What am I to say to you about Frank, who will not talk
   much of your perfections, though he is always thinking
   of them? I believe he writes to you constantly, though
   what he says, or of what nature it is, I can only
   guess. I presume he does not send many messages to Lord
   Castlewell, who, however, as far as I can see, has behaved
   beautifully. What more can a girl want than to have a lord
   to fall in love with her, and to give her up just as her
   inclination may declare itself?

   What I write for now, specially, is to add a word to what
   I presume Frank may have said in one of his letters. Papa
   says that neither you nor Mr. O'Mahony are to think of
   leaving this side of the water without coming down to
   Castle Morony. We have got a cook now, and a cow-boy. What
   more can you want? And old Peter is here still, always
   talking about the infinite things which he has done for
   the Jones family. Joking apart, you must of course come
   and see us again once before you start for New York. Is
   Frank to go with you? That is a question to which we can
   get no answer at all from Frank himself.

   In your last you asked me about my affairs. Dear girl,
   I have no affairs. I am in such a position that it is
   impossible for me to have what you would call affairs.
   Between you and Frank everything is settled. Between
   me and the man to whom you allude there is nothing
   settled,--except that there is no ground for settlement.
   He must go one way and I another. It is very sad, you will
   say. I, however, have done it for myself and I must bear
   the burden.

   Yours always lovingly,

   EDITH.

CHAPTER XLIX.

It is not to be supposed that Mr. Jones succumbed altogether to the difficulties which circumstances
had placed in his way. His feelings had been much hurt both by those who had chosen to call
themselves his enemies and by his friends, and under such usage he became somewhat sullen.
Having suffered a grievous misfortune he had become violent with his children, and had been
more severely hurt by the death of the poor boy who had been murdered than he had confessed.
But he had still struggled on, saying but little to anybody till at last he had taken Frank
into his confidence, when Frank had returned from London with his marriage engagement dissolved.
And the re-engagement had not at all interfered with the renewed intimacy between Frank and
his father, because the girl was absolved from her singing. The father had feared that the
son would go away from him, and lead an idle life, enjoying the luxuries which her rich salary
would purchase. Frank had shared his father's feelings in this respect, but still the squire
had had his misgivings. All that was now set to rights by the absolute destruction of poor
Rachel's voice.

