"I'm glad you're to see them, Mary darling; they will amuse you. From your standpoint of reality,
the standpoint of Puritan civilization--the deepest civilization the world has yet produced;
the civilization that judges by the soul--you will be able to judge and place them as few of
our people are, as yet, developed enough to do. They are of that funny English type, Mary,
the leisured; their business in life that of pleasure seeking; their social service consisting
in benevolent domination over the servile classes beneath them. Oh, they have their political
business, too; we mustn't be unfair; though that consists, in the main, for people of their
type, in maintaining their own place as donors and in keeping other people in the place of
recipients. In their own eyes, I'm quite sure, they are useful, as upholding the structure
of English civilization. You'll find them absolutely simple, absolutely self-assured, absolutely
indifferent, quite charming,--there's no reason why they shouldn't be; but their good manners
are for themselves, not for you,--one must never forget that with the English. Do study them,
Mary. We need to keep the fact of them clearly before us, for what they represent is a menace
to us and to what we mean. I sometimes think that the future of the world depends upon which
ideal is to win, ours or the English. We must arm ourselves with complete comprehension. Already
they have infected the cruder types among us."

These were all sentiments that in the past, Mary felt sure, Jack must have acquiesced in and
approved of, and yet she felt surer that Imogen's manner of enunciating them was making Jack
very angry. She herself did not find them as inspiring as she might have expected, and looking
very much frightened and flurried she murmured that as she was to go back to Boston next day
she would not have much opportunity for all this observation. "Besides--I don't believe that
I'm so--so wise--so civilized, you know, as to be able to see it all."

"Oh, Imogen will tell you what to see!" said Jack.

"It's very kind of her, I'm sure," poor Mary faltered. She could have burst into tears. These
two!--these beloved two!

Meanwhile, at a little later hour, Valerie and Mrs. Wake made their way to the theater, there
to meet the group of friends from whom they had parted in England six months before.

The Pakenhams, full of question and comment, were intelligently amassing well-assorted impressions
of the country that was new to them. Sir Basil, though cheerfully pleased with all to which
his attention was drawn, showed no particular interest in his surroundings. His concentration
was entirely for his regained friend.

After her welcoming radiance of the day before, Valerie looked pale and weary, and when, with
solicitude, he asked her whether she were not tired, she confessed to having slept badly.

"She's changed, you know," Sir Basil said to Mrs. Pakenham, when they were settled in their
seats, and Valerie, beside him, was engaged in pointing out people to Tom Pakenham. "It's been
frightfully hard on her, all this, I'm sure."

"She's as charming as ever," said Mrs. Pakenham.

"Oh, well, that could never change. But what a shame that she should have had, all along, such
a lot to go through." Sir Basil, as a matter of course, had the deepest antipathy for the late
Mr. Upton.

The tableaux struck at once the note of success. Saved by Jack's skill from any hint of waxwork
or pantomime, their subtle color and tranquil light made each picture a vision of past time,
an evocation of Hellenic beauty and dignity.

Cassandra in her car--her face (oh, artful Jack!) turned away,--awful before the door of Agamemnon;
Iphigenia, sleeping, on her way to the sacrifice; Helen, before her husband and Hecuba; Alcestis,
returning from the grave, and Deianira with the robe. The old world of beauty and sorrow, austere
and lovely in its doom, passed before modern eyes against its background of sky, grove, and
palace steps.

"And now," said Valerie, when the lights sprang out for the interval, "now for your introduction
to Imogen. They have made her the climax, you see."

"He did, you mean. The young man."

"Yes, Jack arranged it all."

"He's the one you wrote of, of course, who admires her so tremendously."

"He is the one."

"In fact he'll carry her off from you some day, soon, eh?" Sir Basil ventured with satisfaction
in his own assurance. He, too, felt that Imogen must be "settled."

"I suppose so," said Valerie. "I couldn't trust her to any one more happily. He understands
her and cares for her absolutely."

Sir Basil at this ventured a little further, voicing both satisfaction and anxiety with: "So,
then, you'll come back--to--to Surrey."

"Yes, then, I think, I can come back to Surrey," Valerie replied.

The heart of her feeling had always remained for him a mystery, and her acquiescence now might
mean a great deal, everything, in fact, or it might mean only her gliding composure before
a situation that she had power to form as she would. He could observe that her color rose.
He knew that she blushed easily. He knew, too, that his own feeling was not hidden from her
and that the blush might be for her recognition only; yet he was occupied with the most hopeful
interpretations when the curtain rose. A moment after its rising Valerie heard him softly ejaculate,
"I say!" She could have echoed the helplessly rudimentary, phrase. She, too, gazed, in a stupor
of delight; a primitive emotion in it. The white creature standing there before them, with
her forward poise, her downcast yet upgazing face, was her child. Valerie, since her return
to her home, had given little time to analysis of her own feeling, the stress of her situation
had been too intense for leisurely self-observation. But in the upwelling of a strange, a selfless,
joy she knew, now, how often she had feared that all the joy of maternity was dead in her;
killed, killed by Imogen.

The joy now was a passing ray. The happy confusion of admiration, wonder, and pride was blotted
out by the falling gloom of reality. It was her child who stood there, but the bond between
them seemed, but for the ache of rejected maternity at her heart, a pictorial one merely. Tears
of bitterness involuntarily filled her eyes as she looked, and Imogen's form seemed to waver
in a dim, an alien atmosphere.

When the curtain fell on the Antigone who kept her pose without a tremor, the uproar of applause
was so great that it had to rise, not only twice, but three times. At the last, a faint wavering
shook slightly the Antigone's sculptured stillness and poor old Oedipus rocked obviously upon
his feet.

"What a shame to make her keep it up for so long!" murmured Sir Basil, his face suffused with
sympathy. The symptom of human weakness was a final touch to the enchantment.

"Well, it makes one selfish, such loveliness!" said Mrs. Pakenham, flushed with her clapping.
"Valerie, dear, she is quite too lovely!"

"Extraordinarily Greek, the whole thing," said Tom Pakenham; "the comparative insignificance
of facial expression and the immense significance of attitude and outline."

"But the face!" Sir Basil turned an unseeing eye upon him, still wrapped, it was evident, in
the vision that, at last, had disappeared. "The figure is perfect; but the face,--I never saw
anything so heavenly."

Indeed, in its slightly downcast pose, the trivial lines of Imogen's nose and chin had been
lost; the up-gazing eyes, the sweep of brow and hair, had dominated and transfigured her somewhat
tamely perfect countenance.

