And, an hour later, the dashboard's shaded dials told him he was on the exact spot where the
Peary had last reported....

       *       *       *       *       *

Here was the real Arctic, the real polar sea. No sun, no breath of the world above could reach
it through its eternal mask of solid ice. As one of the few unfamiliar aspects of the earth,
it was as far removed from the imagination of man as if it were part of a far planet hung spinning
millions of miles out in space. Men could reach it in shells of metal, but it was not meant
for him, and was always hostile. A dozen times a daring one could cross safely its cold lonely
reaches, but the thirteenth time it would snare and destroy him for the unwanted trespasser he was.

It was here that the Peary had stepped off into mystery. At this point her hull had throbbed
with air, movement, life; at this point all had been well. And then, minutes or hours later,
close to here, the sea devil had sprung.

What had happened? What had trapped her? What, even more baffling, had kept her men with their
manifold safety devices from even reaching and climbing up on the ice above to signal the searching
planes?

Ken Torrance, oppressively alone in the hovering torpoon, gazed through its vision-plate of
fused quartz around him. Gray sea, filtering to black beneath; distant eerie shadows, probably
meaning nothing, but possibly all important; ceiling of thick ice above, rough and in places
broken by a sharp down-thrusting spur--these were his surroundings. These were what he must
hunt through, until he came upon the crumpled remnant of a submarine, or the murky, rounded
hillocks which gave habitation to the creatures he suspected of capturing that submarine's crew.

       *       *       *       *       *

He began the search systematically. He angled the torpoon down to a position halfway between
sea-floor and ice-ceiling, then swung her in an ever-widening circle. Soon his orbit had a
diameter of a half-mile; then a mile; then two.

The torpoon slipped through the water at full speed, her light-beams like restless antennae,
now stabbing to the right to dissolve a formless shadow, now to the left to throw into blinding
white relief a school of half-transparent fish which scurried with frantic wrigglings of tails
from the glare, now slanting up to bathe the cold glassy face of an inverted ice-hill, now
down to dig two white holes in the deeper gloom.

Ken continued this routine for hours. Steadily and low the electric motor droned in the ears
of the watchful pilot, and the stubby propeller's blades flashed round in a blur of speed between
the slightly slanted rudders. Somewhere, miles away, a splintered amphibian plane was slipping
down to her last landing, and above, perhaps, the white hell of storm which had brought her
low still bowled over the trackless wastes; but here were only shadows and shifting gloom,
straining the alert eyes to soreness and tensing the watcher's brain with alarms that, one
after another, were only false.

Until at last he found her.

Immediately he shut off all his lights. He no longer needed them. Far in the distance, and
below, wavered a faint yellow glow. It was no fish; it could mean only one thing--the lights
of a submarine.

And lights meant life! There would be none burning in a deserted submarine. His heart beat
fast and his tight, sober lips widened in a quick grin. He had found the Peary! And found her
with some life still aboard her! He was in time!

So Ken rejoiced while he slid the torpoon down to a level just a few feet above the silty sea
bottom, reducing her to quarter-speed. There was an urge inside him to switch on his bow-beams,
reach them out toward the submarine's hull to tell all within that help was at last at hand;
he wanted to send the torpoon ahead at full speed. But caution restrained him to a more deliberate
course. He was in the realm of the sealmen, and he did not wish to attract the attention of
any. So he advanced like a furtive shadow slinking along the dark sea-bottom, deep in the covering
gloom.

Nearer and nearer, while the distant blur of yellow light grew. Nearer and nearer to the long-trapped
men, while the consciousness that he had succeeded intoxicated him. He alone had found them!
Sealmen or no sealmen, he had found the Peary! And found her with lights lit and life inside!
Nearer and nearer....

And then suddenly Ken halted the torpoon and stared with wide, alarmed eyes. For the submarine
was now plainly visible in detail--and he saw her real plight and with it knew the answer to
the mystery of her long silence and the non-appearance of her men on the ice field above.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Peary was a spectacle of fantastic beauty. It was as if a huge, rounded piece of amber,
mellow, golden, lay in the murk of the sea-floor. Not steel, hard and grim, but of transparent,
shimmering stuff she was built, all coated a soft yellow by her lights, clearly visible inside.
Ken had known something of her radical construction; knew that a substance called quarsteel,
similar to glass and yet fully as tough as steel, had been used for her hull, making her a
perfect vehicle for undersea exploration. Her bow was capped with steel, and her stern, propellers,
diving rudders; her port-locks, for the releasing of torpoons, were also of steel, as were
the struts that braced her throughout--but the rest was quarsteel, glowing and golden as the
heart of amber.

Beautiful with a wild yet scientific beauty was the Peary, but she was not free. She was trapped.
She was fastened to the mud of the gloomy sea-floor.

Ropes held her down; and Ken Torrance knew those ropes of old. They were tough and strong,
woven of many strands of seaweed, and twenty or thirty of them striped the Peary's two hundred
feet of hull. Unevenly spaced, stretched clear over the ship from one side to the other, they
were caught around her up-jutting conning tower, fastened through her rudders, and holding
tight in a score of places. They held the submarine down despite all the buoyancy of her emptied
tanks and the power of her twin propellers.

And the sealmen swam around her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Restless dark shadows against the golden hull, they wavered and darted and poised, totally
unafraid. Another in Kenneth Torrance's place would have put them down as some strange school
of large seals, inordinately curious but nothing more; but the torpooner knew them as men--men
remodeled into the shape of seals; men who, ages ago, had forsaken the land for the old home
of all life, the sea; who, through the years, had gradually changed in appearance as their
flesh had become coated with layers of cold-resisting blubber; whose movements had become adapted
to the water; whose legs and arms had evolved into flippers; but whose heads still harbored
the now faint spark of intelligence that marked them definitely as men. 

And now, Tom, and Jonathan, and even little Nell, we'll all be magicians to-night, like the father
of Miranda, in "The Tempest," and transport ourselves in an instant right to one of those great newspaper
offices.

It is six o'clock. The streets are dark. The gaslights are glaring from hundreds of lamp-posts.
Do you see the highest stories of all those buildings brilliant with
lights? Those are the type-setters' rooms of as many great newspapers.
In a twinkling we are several stories up toward the top of one of
these buildings. Within her he could see figures,
most of them stretched out on the decks of her different compartments, but one of whom occasionally
moved--slowly. He understood that. For weeks now the Peary had lain captive, and her air had
passed beyond the aid of rectifiers. Tortured, those survivors inside were, constantly struggling
for life, with vitality ever sinking lower. Some might already be dead. But at least he could
try to save the rest.

He approached her from one side of the rear, for in the rear compartment were her two torpoon
port-locks. The one on his side was empty, its outer door open. The torpoon it had held had
been sent out, probably for help, and had not returned. It provided a means of entrance for him.

At perhaps a hundred feet from the port-lock, Ken halted again. His slim craft was almost indistinguishable
in the murk: he felt reasonably safe from discovery. For minutes he watched the swimming sealmen,
waiting for the best chance to dart in.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was then, while studying the full length of the submarine more closely, that he saw that
one compartment of her four was filled with water. Her steel-caped bow had been stove in. That,
he conjectured, had been the original accident which had brought her down. It was not a fatal
accident in itself, for there were three other compartments, all separated by watertight bulkheads,
and the flooded one could be repaired by men in sea-suits--but then the sealmen had come and
roped her down where she lay. Some of the creatures, he saw, were actually at that time inside
the bow compartment, swimming around curiously amidst the clustered pipes, wheels and levers.
It was a weird sight, and one that held his eyes fascinated.

But suddenly, through his absorption, danger prickled the short hairs of his neck. A lithe,
sinuous shadow close ahead was wavering, and large, placid brown eyes were staring at him.
A sealman! He was discovered! And instinctively, immediately, Ken Torrence brought the torpoon's
accelerator down flat.

The shell jumped ahead with whirling propeller. The creature that had seen him doubled around
and sped in retreat. In brief snatches, as the torpoon streaked across the hundred-foot gap
to the empty port-lock, Ken glimpsed his discoverer gathering a group of its fellows, and saw
brown-skinned bodies swarm after him with nooses of seaweed-rope--and then the great transparent
side wall of the Peary was before him, and the port-locks dark opening. Ken threw his motor
into reverse, slid the torpoon slightly to one side, and there was a jerk, a jar, and a sensation
of something moving behind.

He turned to see the port-lock's outer door closing, activated by controls inside the submarine--and
just in time to shut out the first of his pursuers. Then the port-lock's pumps were draining
the water from the chamber, and the inner door clicked and opened.

Kenneth Torrance climbed stiffly from the torpoon to enter the interior of the long-lost and
besieged exploring submarine Peary.

CHAPTER IV

"No Chance Left"

His entrance was an unpleasant experience. He had forgotten the condition of the air inside
the submarine, and what its effect on him, coming straight from comparatively good and fresh
air, would be, until he was seized by a sudden choking grip around his throat. He reeled and
gasped, and was for a minute nauseated. Lights flashed around him, and teetering backward he
leaned weakly, against some metal object until gradually his head cleared; but his lungs remained
tortured, and his breathing a thing of quick, agonised gulps.

Then came sounds. Figures appeared before him.

"From where--" "Who are you?"

"What--what--what--" "How did you?"

The half-coherent questions were couched in whispers. The men around him were blear-eyed and
haggard-faced, their skins dry and bluish, and not a one was clad in more than undershirt and
trousers. Alive and breathing, they were--but breathing grotesquely, horribly. They made awful
noises at it; they panted, in quick, shallow sucks. Some lay on the deck at his feet, outstretched
without energy enough to attempt to rise.

