WITH OUR SOLDIERS IN FRANCE

by

SHERWOOD EDDY

Author of "Suffering and the War," "The Students of Asia," etc.

[Frontispiece: The American Y.M.C.A. Headquarters in Paris.]

Association Press New York: 124 East 28Th Street 1917 Copyright, 1917, by The International
Committee of Young Men's Christian Association

To M. H. E.

AND THE REAL HEROES OF THE WAR

THE MOTHERS WHO HAVE GIVEN THEIR SONS

AND THE WIVES WHO HAVE GIVEN THEIR HUSBANDS

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

       FOREWORD

    I. AT THE FRONT
   II. WITH GENERAL PERSHING'S FORCE IN FRANCE
  III. A DAY IN THE "BULL RING"
   IV. WITH THE BRITISH ARMY
    V. LIFE IN A BASE CAMP
   VI. THE CAMP OF THE PRODIGALS
  VII. RELIGION AT THE FRONT
 VIII. THE WORLD AT WAR

ILLUSTRATIONS

The American Y.M.C.A. Headquarters in Paris . . . . . . Frontispiece

The "Eagle Hut" in London

Harry Lauder Singing at a Y.M.C.A. Meeting.  The officer
  seated at the extreme right is Captain "Peg"

Wholesome and Entertaining,
  Home Refreshments in London

Three Thousand Soldiers in the Crowded Hut

FOREWORD

The world is at war.  Already more than a score of nations, representing a population of over
a thousand millions, or two-thirds of the entire human race, are engaged in a life-and-death
struggle on the bloody battlefields of Europe, Asia, and Africa.  No man can stand in the mouth
of that volcano on a battle front, or meet the trains pouring in with their weary freight of
wounded after a battle, or stand by the operating tables and the long rows of cots in the hospitals,
or share in sympathy the hardship and suffering of the men who are fighting for us, and remain
unmoved.  The man must be dead of soul to whom the war does not present a mighty moral challenge.
It arraigns our past manner of life and our very civilization.  It gives us a new angle of
observation, a new point of view, a new test of values.  It furnishes a possible moral judgment
by which we can weigh our life in the balance and see where we have been found wanting.

These brief sketches are only fragmentary and have of necessity been hastily written.  The
writer has been asked to state his impression of the work among the men in France.  He did
not go there to write but to work.  He has tried simply to state what he saw and to leave the
reader to draw his own conclusions.  A mere statement of the grim facts at the front, if they
are not sugar-coated or glossed over, may not be pleasant reading, but it is unfair to those
at home that they should not know the hard truth of the reality of things as they are.

Before the war broke out, it was the writer's privilege to make an extended tour for work among
students in Russia, Turkey, Bulgaria, Serbia, and Greece, and to visit Germany.  Since the
declaration of war, he has visited France, Italy, and Egypt, and has observed the effect of
the war throughout Asia, in tours extending over nearly the whole of China and India.  Last
year he was in the British camps among the soldiers of England, Scotland, and Wales.  Since
America declared war he has been working with the various divisions of the British and American
armies in France, from the great base camps, where hundreds of thousands of men are in training,
up to the front with the men in the trenches.

For the sake of those who will follow with deep interest the boys who are already in France,
or who will shortly be there, brief accounts are given of the various phases of a soldier's
life in the base camps, the training school of the "Bull Ring," at the front, and in the hospitals.

CHAPTER I

AT THE FRONT

In the midst of our work at a base camp, there came a sudden call to go "up the line" to the
great battle front.  Leaving the railway, we took a motor and pressed on over the solidly paved
roads of France, which are now pulsing arteries of traffic, crowded with trains of motor transports
pouring in their steady stream of supplies for the men and munitions for the guns.  Now we
turn out for the rumbling tank-like caterpillars, which slowly creep forward, drawing the big
guns up to the front; then we pass a light field-battery.  Next comes a battalion of Tommies
swinging down the road, loaded like Christmas trees with their cumbrous kits, sweating, singing,
whistling, as they march by with dogged cheer toward the trenches. 

A huge deep runs the Darro, and sinembargo, was of that creek, from many miles away, brought abundant
flows to their palaces and gardens the industrious Moors, these sun-lovers and playful waters. The
building Jeneralife is outside the fortifications of the Alhambra,
but was linked by air viaducts.

It was there rested and bathed the princesses, court ladies and maids, with infinite pleasure to
enjoy under a wonderful sky, a thousand perfumes, rumors and fads, in pools and marble tubs, and
having the most charming around the horizon in the world. Jeneralife consists of a maze of gardens,
pavilions, gazebos, fountains whimsical, bathrooms, orchards, gardens and a thousand artificial
beauties, where they were heavily agglomerated and well prepared
the rich marble and jasper, beautiful stucco, delicate arabesques
The beautiful tiles, Cascadilla, terraces, groups of myrtle, orange,
jasmine, pomegranate and rose form the most graceful figures, and
as was characteristic of Oriental art, so skilled in the arrangement
of colors, the orientation of buildings, water distribution and cultivation
of plants.

From there it has the full picture of the Alhambra, Sr. had a massive work, formidable and very varied
conditions. A first line of fortifications, outstanding under the edges of the circumference
of the plain, enclosed it all: the citadel and palaces, parks and gardens and the Jeneralife.
Another line more formidable as a whole, with many towers at intervals, separated at the Alhambra
and the citadel of the parks, Jeneralife, etc. And finally, the palaces themselves of the residences
of the Court were separated from the mass composed the citadel, divided into many streets with gardens,
where families lived undoubtedly courtesans and perhaps part of the
garrison.

Today everything is almost in ruins, with the exception of the Summer Palace and the great mosque,
there are many empty spaces , the towers have collapsed, the interior gardens are in skeleton
and in the streets of this small town court enclosed fortresses, many houses are deserted, but others
are not inhabited by families destitute and beggars. * * * * * The Cathedral Granada, dating
from the XV and XVI, though grand and splendid of its kind and a wonderful richness of ornament and
detail, is, according to my taste, inferior to the other cathedrals
of Spain, as the whole. I have a strong passion for the sombre ceremony,
originality and boldness of the Gothic cathedrals, monuments because
they are typical, popular and in harmony with the stern seclusion
of religion.

But I loathe the refinements in the churches of the Renaissance scholastics and effeminate, they
do evoke the memory of paganism. Granada's cathedral, built by the Catholic Monarchs, is the
purest Renaissance style, combining different types of orders. It is a great monument of majestic
proportions, but heavy in mass, without daring in the forms and regularity
that interested at first, eventually becomes monotonous.

A huge ship that makes its semicircle at the back and hugs the two
sides, so the aisles, and three in the center round the vast building.

A central choir conceived at the wrong time, it disrupts the body of the building, removing much of
its majesty, and, except for some relief of a beautiful frontispiece- magnificent marble altars,
only attracts attention for its two colossal organ, whose pipes penetrating the roof seem to
want to throw the sky with a solemn melodies. The altar, located in the center of a vast circle
of columns and forts that support the great dome of the temple is a sumptuous magnificence.
There runs there a famous arch inclined, bold imposed on artist creating the need for perspective
and are in all the cornices and circular arcs a profusion of statues of great value that make
an excellent effect on the fund due to the cool artists remarkable, as the famous Palomino.
The Chapel of the Kings contained there, including great wealth of ornamentation, two monumental
tombs of white marble, surprisingly beautiful for its delicate lines,
their immense relief work and an unsurpassed artistic taste.

The one of these tombs is that of Ferdinand and Isabella, with their
bodies intact in relief, the other of Philip I and Juana la loca,
equal conditions.

Other than that, the whole cathedral is full of beauties, its wealth of marble flooring in
all the altars and walls, is prodigious - as in all Spanish cathedrals (not always with good
taste in the distribution), and among many of beautiful fresh, endless ornaments and oil paintings
of considerable merit, there are two small Murillo, one of Herrera and several of the indefatigable
old Alonso Cano. A curious sight caught my attention, to tour the city to outside, at request of
the Cartuja, the Albaicin and Monte Santo. I had promised to see to the Gypsies in their neighborhood
and see their strange dances amid the ruins of the Alhambra. He had met one day in the Jeneralife,
the captain of the Gitano de Granada, talking with him would make us prepare for a dance, an object
that provokes much curiosity of travelers.

The captain, farrier by trade, had impressed me deeply, making me sympathize with his race. Slim and discreet,
with a face that seemed to dispute the typical expression, pride and humility feigned indifference and
kindness, tall, thin and upright, wearing his cape gracefully turns dark blue with crimson velvet, and
her hat felt something leaning over the front, with ringing tones and
soft, deep black eye, and burning alive, but ensured moments, and
going safely and quickly, - the man offered me the type of a beautiful
race, which preserved in the midst of its degradation in Europe the
tradition of the most beautiful race of India outlawed.

In plaza across a splendid, interesting historical memories, we found a nearby esplanade, full of people
and animals. Being celebrated at that time a market characteristic of the Gypsies. All vendors were
of that race, while buyers belonged to the country. Wherever groups of people, fancy dresses
or sad. Over here people trying horses, mules and donkeys, and even the odd dog out there for
women, selling pans, olletas and all kinds of metal objects.

During the ordinary days the Gypsy walks through the fields and farms collecting animals domestic
service, purchased, and receive them in committee, while women and boys in the race to collect less
money for household supplies more or less damaged, houses subaltern of the population. The neighborhood
of the Gypsies is thus the deposit of a thousand ruins animate or inanimate. Those people, especially
in the traditional art of tinning and mending, and rejuvenate accommodate the swarm of junk, and not
least management specialist veterinary (more or less empirical, but business as to appearances),
transform the recalcitrant horse and the donkey that seemed useless. The resale of these goods,
in which there is a lot of artificial value, and the sale of some coal and other items brought from
the mountains , are the specialty markets of the Gypsies of Granada.'s curiosity to explore the
types of that race made us mingle among the groups. As my two traveling companions and I had to always
speak in French, Gypsies, to consider us foreigners, believed for a moment that could do business
- EAH, said one of them at the nearest compatriot, - to offer them
the pony these plovers, and tighten them if they want the mold. -
I, then, - said the other, with a mischievous smile - while we watched
a graceful appearance horse that snorted with great verve. - Uh, sir
and added the shawl, with the accent more mellow - usté paint it to
the horse's eye and tell me if there is a beauty but Toas Cuckoo Andalucías
read, - True, the pony is very pretty - "Ah-Usté despresa is in Spanish?

There seemed .... - Why not? I replied, How much is the pony? - Media bargain, sir, one hundred and
fifty hard .... - is very expensive. - Ah, sir! if usté know what it's mare! ... Is finer than a
pearl, and such a mother like son. - Then the horse is very bad. - Puah! what is usté rezándome! And the
pimp .... - The truth: the fine mare da wrong horse, if the horse is good .-- Mare ordinary horse
tasty, says the proverb of the barges. - Ah! This gentleman knows
the business .-- Eh! lost time!

And I came back with sovereign indifference, deque not have business insurance. The Gypsy is so.
When you expect trying to win, his word is mellow and elastic face, but when not promising anything which
comes close, shuts his eyes, his forehead contracted revealing a brutal and selfish pride, and returns
to silence, which seems instinctive antipathy cover a race for all of Europe. Those calls out rough
and tanned faces and almost repellent called us much attention. The color of Spanish gypsies, the
only type of race that until now I have seen, is similar to that of a polished coffee paste, as a rule,
although some have a darker ink, thin lips, full of cunning and malice, look quick, easy movements, and the
whole person an air of sadness deep in concentration, a something shady, something that seems
to waver between indifference and contempt, hatred and spite-these are his features. Pobre race,
full strong qualities that Europe has not thought to educate and
improve, but to proscribe, condemning the vices of the nomadic life!

How many mysteries in this strange race, one perpetuated through the centuries to as deprived
of the common atmosphere of civilization, and without country or home! Before observing the Gypsy
house let him in his dealings and entered the monastery.

The building itself has nothing to call attention. Sixteenth century, and is a former convent deleted,
which belongs to a wealthy and pious Granada.

Perhaps most of what made up the convent has disappeared, or only vestiges remain. It is only preserved
the church, the vestry and the cloisters and some rooms deserts,
with a few cells living happily without hoods.

All four cloisters contain in detestable pictures without any artistic value, the whole history
of San Bruno, founder of the most prodigious order (the silent monks,
sober and workers), and the martyrdom of the Carthusians in England.

Remembering the rules of this unique institute understood why they
were so rare the Carthusian in Europe and throughout the Catholic
world, and why their churches came to be wonders of art.

The church and the sacristy, as the whole building , is the Renaissance
style.

In contemplating the cops inside an admiring so many subtleties of
art, which express the inspiration of the Spanish artist profane,
taste more careful, the wealth of the convent and the incredible patience
of some monks.

If all the monks have patience ... Stun this profusion of gilt and
relief, exquisite stucco and marble.

That chapel is a vast infinite filigree charms, in which all interested.

Palomino The delicious fresh, in the chapel, and Jose Beautiful at the top of the sacristy, quite
remarkable, a remarkable de Murillo Ecce Homo, a beautiful Virgin
of Alonso Cano, and other categories, the Sancta Sanctorum, and his
tabernacle, all in marble pure and solid gold splendor of taste and
more complete, two huge agates, unrivaled in Europe, and a thousand
other treasures, make this sanctuary a treasure invaluable to the
artist.

But nothing impresses as much as the vast doors and cupboards of
the sacristy, ebony top and with the most beautiful pearl and silver
inlays.

Forty years spent two friars to work those miracles of skill, taste
and patience!

Poor monks of the past (exceptional true) that with genuine competition
of its industrial work, at least lived in seclusion and patients work
without giving food to the turbulent passions of the world.

The nineteenth-century monks are more civilized, they make choices, go to the kings, conquered territories,
are shareholders in railways and commercial enterprises, negotiating
with pious lotteries, play on the stock, make fortunes and live contented
and satisfied.

San Ignacio San Bruno has defeated.

We started to climb the high hill where you have your seat the Albaicin, Servian to guide a very
poor man, seventy-two, named Juan López Salcedo, whose conversation and we liked a lot of fun.
He had been in France in time of the Board, fought against Napoleon in
the war of Spanish independence, and accompanying Quiroga Diego and his heroic
revolution. Miserable and decrepit and eight young children, this man
for his qualities we summarized the type of the old pure Spanish.

His face had the stiffness Aragon energetic character and tenacity of feelings and views are preserved
in spite of time and deprivation. Liberalote was a closed fist, humble, confident, kind and wise,
with the youthful heart and spirit filled with the philosophy that cherishes the ordeals of life.
He climbed all over with the agility of a boy of fifteen years without ever tiring, wrapped
in layers and impassive. The clergy and the military was his lifelong
dream, the republic his fixed idea. One day, rising to Jeneralife,
after we had gifted him at a restaurant of the Alhambra, Malaga generous
tops untied her tongue, and told us his history, at our invitation,
with interesting details about episodes in modern history of Spain.

At the conclusion of his story told us that he had married a beautiful young woman to nine years,
and let out a sigh. Fearing that a domestic drama revealed sigh, I said - I guess U., where possible,
be happy. - Ah, sir, - I am so happy and unhappy - I do not understand .... - It is very simple. I love
my good woman and she is very good and I love him.

But unfortunately we can not sleep together. Just give him good night
and I was born a son more.

We are so prolific! ... but we are poor, and the fear of the children we are condemned to a
sort of intimate divorce. This man honest, to speak with that candor, somehow traced the history
of the home of the poor .... Is there such a sublime drama of the heart
like the love that defends himself, fighting in different forms?

Juan Lopez confess that made me think a lot. Nothing is more curious that the renowned Albaicin.
Towards the foot of the hill still reach the winding streets of Granada, built into the light of
Andalusian goal, more or less capricious, more or less divergent, as corresponding to the Moorish
style, so funny and uneven, or the Spanish post Conquest of Granada (if that can be called like
that) heavy mace and without coordination entirely empirical or artistic. But on top of the hill
the structure changes: there is no roof stands on the horizon, so that if you look after and far
behind that hill, do not believe in it a population.

And yet, as six hundred families living there that might be called a human population of armadillos,
there is life, but life between groundwater and rags. Imagine a series of unpaved street, prancing
in the amphitheater around a hill on three sides. Each of these streets is like a deep alley
between two rows of rocks and ravines, and on each side or row are like mouths or furnace vents
that release puffs of smoke in the midst of poor little gardens and small plantations of aloes dwarves,
Prickly thick studded with yellow flowers and thorns of crimson fruit,
and beans and beans.

If the uneven surface of the hill offers the sad contrast of those fields, which seem to vegetate
on hundreds of craters, judging by the columns of smoke rising from
the ground, the social life is revealed only by looking at the little doors
that open onto the streets, rooms carved into the cliffs gravel or
limestone. In fact the home of the Gypsy is manifested by the entry
and exit: the door at ground in the street, and the chimney, also
at ground level on the cliffs.

Each of these caves are inhabited by a family and is generally composed of four parts: some have
only three, others have six. I visited with my colleagues only about five, at random, entering
into every alley to the first quo offered us. A narrow little door, about 160 centimeters tall,
is set to the rock and living room opens onto a square of just over 2 meters per side. On one
side is a little door inside that connected to the kitchen, narrow, smoky and in the background
is one that leads to the bedroom, and deeper is a bedroom for the boys and a particular room
or cupboard. The height of that building not, or hollow building, is three meters at most and
at various points of the roofs are slanted pockets arranged so that
the air is renewed, even laboriously, without penetrating the rain
and direct rays the sun.

The walls, completely naked at the rock show to the slightly petrified
sandstone sediments that make up the ground, very well matched and
level.

  Its purposes will reach
far beyond our ken, and though man's sin alone has caused the war, its issues are in the hands
of God.  The whole war has been a demonstration of the result of leaving God out of His world.
The world with God left out leaves war; and life with God left out leaves hell.

There must be a turning to God in our own national life.  We speak of the menace of German
militarism, but what is militarism but armed and aggressive materialism, the deeper principle
which lies behind it?  And what is materialism but organized selfishness?  Materialism and
selfishness are the dangers of our own land as well as of Germany.  And the war is a call to
set our own house in order.

America can no longer live to herself alone.  She is fighting for the freedom of humanity.
Here on the very field of battle, at the throbbing heart of the conflict, we ask ourselves,
What is the real issue of the war?  What are they fighting for?

Away there in Austria a young crown prince, Francis Ferdinand, was murdered.  It was the spark
which set off the powder mine of Europe. But not for him are they fighting.  Behind him stood
the two contending forces of the growing nationalism of Serbia and the expanding commercialism
of Austria.  These two forces clashed in conflict, but not for them are they fighting.  Behind
these stood two greater powers, those of pan-Germanism and pan-Slavism, a growing Germany and
a rising Russia, which like a vast glacier for a thousand years had sought the open sea.  The
ambitions of these two powers clashed in conflict at Constantinople and elsewhere.  But not
for them are they fighting.

On the western front there were two deeper principles in conflict, those of autocracy and democracy,
the question whether one man and a sinister, hidden group of plotting militarists could drag
the whole world into war and crush its liberties and its laws beneath the iron heel of despotism,
or whether man as man should stand erect in his God-given right of freedom and work out his
own destiny in friendly brotherhood.

But behind even the great conflict between autocracy and democracy lay a yet deeper issue.
In the last analysis the final question in human life is between a material and a spiritual
interpretation of the universe, whether might makes right and the strong are to rule, or whether
right makes might and the moral order is supreme.  There is a material and a spiritual side
of life.  On this side is the brute struggle for life; on that, the struggle for the life of
others; on the one hand, the fight for the survival of the fittest, and on the other, the fight
to make men fit to survive.  On the left hand is selfishness and on the right service; on the
one side are the red battlefields of the enemy, and on the other is a cross red in sacrifice
of a life laid down in the serving and saving of men.  There is a final issue in the world
between passion and principle, between wrong and right, between darkness and light, between
mammon and God, between self and Christ.

This ultimate issue must be faced by individuals and by nations.  It is the challenge which
confronts men in this war.  Seventy years ago a crushed Europe faced the issue in the prophetic
words of Mazzini, written in the hour of darkness and defeat:

"Our victory is certain; I declare it with the profoundest conviction, here in exile, and precisely
when monarchical reaction appears most insolently secure.  What matters the triumph of an hour?
What matters it that by concentrating all your means of action, availing yourselves of every
artifice, turning to your account those prejudices and jealousies of race which yet for a while
endure, and spreading distrust, egotism, and corruption, you have repulsed our forces and restored
the former order of things?  Can you restore men's faith in it, or think you can long maintain
it by brute force alone, now that all faith in it is extinct?  Threatened and undermined on
every side, can you hold all Europe forever in a stage of siege?" [1]

Pasteur sees the same issue looming even in his day and states it in burning words at the close
of his life:

"Two contrary laws seem to be wrestling with each other nowadays, the one a law of blood and
of death, ever seeking new means of destruction and forcing nations to be constantly ready
for the battlefield; the other a law of peace, work, and health, ever evolving new means of
delivering man from the scourges which beset him.  The first seeks violent conquests, the other
the relief of humanity.  The latter places one human life above any victory, while the former
would sacrifice hundreds and thousands of lives to the ambition of one.  Which of these two
laws will ultimately prevail God only knows.  We will have tried, by obeying the laws of humanity,
to extend the frontiers of Life."

[1] Life and Writings of Mazzini, vol. v, pp. 269-271.

[2] Life of Pasteur, p. 271.

CHAPTER II

WITH GENERAL PERSHING'S FORCE IN FRANCE

We are in the midst of an American army encampment in a French village. For miles away over
the rolling country the golden harvests of France are ripening in the sun, broken by patches
of green field, forest, and stream.  The reapers are gathering in the grain.  Only old men,
women, and children are left to do the work, for the sons of France are away at the battle
front.  The countryside is more beautiful than the finest parts of New York or Pennsylvania.
In almost every valley sleeps a little French hamlet, with its red tiled roofs and its neat
stone cottages, clustered about the village church tower.  It is a picture of calm and peace
and plenty under the summer sun.  But the sound of distant guns on the neighboring drill grounds,
a bugle call down the village street, the sight of the broad cowboy hats and the khaki uniforms
of the American soldiers, arouse us to the realization of a world at war and the fact that
our boys are here, fighting for the soil of France and the world's freedom.

We are in a typical French farming village of a thousand people, and here a thousand American
soldiers are quartered.  A sergeant and a score of men are in each shed or stable or barn loft.
The Americans are stationed in a long string of villages down this railway line. Indeed it
is hard to tell for the moment whether we are in France or in the States.  Here are Uncle Sam's
uniforms, brown army tents, and new wooden barracks.  The roads are filled with American trucks,
wagons, motors, and whizzing motorcycles, American mules, ammunition wagons, machine guns,
provisions, and supplies, and American sentinels down every street.

These are the men of the First Division, scattered along behind the French lines, being drilled
as rapidly as possible to take their place in the trenches for the relief of the hard-pressed
French.  The nucleus is made up of the men of the old army, who have seen service in Cuba,
Porto Rico, the Philippines, Texas, or along the Mexican border.  And with them are young boys
of nineteen, twenty, or twenty-one, with clear faces, fresh from their homes, chiefly from
the Middle West--from Illinois to Texas.

The first thing that strikes us as we look at these men is their superb kit and outfit.  From
the broad cowboy hat, the neat uniform close fitting at the waist, down to their American shoes;
from the saddles, bits, and bridles to the nose bags of the horses; from the guns, motors,
and trucks down to the last shoe lace, the equipment is incomparably the best and most expensive
of all that we have seen at the front.  The boys themselves are live, clean, strong, and intelligent
fellows, probably the best raw material of any of the fighting forces in Europe.  The officers
tell us that the American troops are natural marksmen and there are no better riflemen in the
war zone.  The frequency of the sharpshooters' medals, among both the officers and the men,
shows that many of them already excel in musketry.

The second impression that strikes us is the crudeness of the new men, and the lack of finish
in their drill, as compared with the veteran troops of Britain and France.  The progress they
have made, however, in the past few weeks under their experienced American officers of the
regular army has been truly remarkable.

The next impression we receive is the enormous moral danger to which these men are exposed
in this far-away foreign land.  During the whole war it is the Overseas Forces, the men farthest
from home influences, who have no hope of leave or furlough, who are far removed from all good
women and the steadying influence of their own reputations, that have fared the worst in the
war.  The Americans not only share this danger with the Colonials and other Overseas Forces,
but they have an additional danger in their high pay.  Here are enlisted men who tell us that
they are paid from $35 to $90 a month, from the lowest private to the best paid sergeants.
When you remember that the Russian private is allowed only one cent a day, that the Belgian
soldier receives only four cents a day, the French private five cents, the German six cents,
and the English soldier twenty-five cents a day, most of which has to go for supplementary
food to make up for the scantiness of the rations supplied, you realize what it means for the
American soldier to be paid from one to three dollars a day, in addition to clothing, expenses,
and the best rations of any army in Europe.[1]

Some of these men tell us that they have just received from two to three months' back pay in
cash.  Here they are with several hundred francs in their hands, buried in a French village,
with absolutely no attraction or amusement save drink and immorality.  In this little village
the only prosperous trade in evidence is that in wines and liquors.  The only large wholesale
house is the center of the liquor trade and the only freight piled up on the platform of the
station consists of wines and champagnes, pouring in to meet the demand of the American soldiers.
There are a score of drinking places in this little hamlet.  Our boys are unaccustomed to the
simple and moderate drinking of the French peasants, and they are plunged into these estaminets
with their pockets full of money.  Others under the influence of drink have torn up the money
or tossed it recklessly away.  Prices have doubled and trebled in the village in a few weeks,
and the peasants have come to the conclusion that every American soldier must be a millionaire;
as the boys have sometimes told them that the pile of notes, which represents several mouths'
pay, is the amount they receive every month.  Compare this with the $1.80 a month, in addition
to a small allowance for his family, which the French private gets, and you will readily see
how this false impression is formed.

Temptation and solicitation in Europe have been in almost exact proportion to the pay that
the soldier receives.  The harpies flock around the men who have the most money.  As our American
boys are the best paid, and perhaps the most generous and open-hearted and reckless of all
the troops, they have proved an easy mark in Paris and the port cities.  As soon as they were
paid several months' back salary, some of them took "French leave," went on a spree, and did
not come back until they were penniless.  The officers, fully alive to the danger, are now
doing their utmost to cope with the situation; they are seeking to reduce the cash payments
to the men and are endeavoring to persuade them to send more of their money home.  Court martial
and strict punishment have been imposed for drunkenness, in the effort to grapple with this evil.

Will the friends of our American boys away in France try to realize just the situation that
confronts them?  Imagine a thousand healthy, happy, reckless, irrepressible American youths
put down in a French village, without a single place of amusement but a drinking hall, and
no social life save such as they can find with the French girls standing in the doorways and
on the street corners.  Think of all these men shut up, month after month, through the long
winter, with nothing to do to occupy their evenings.  Then you will begin to realize the seriousness
of the situation which the Young Men's Christian Association is trying to meet.

Here on the village green stands a big tent, with the sign "The American Y M C A," and the
red triangle, which is already placed upon more than seven hundred British, French, and American
Association centers in France.  Inside the tent, as the evening falls, scores of boys are sitting
at the tables, writing their letters home on note paper provided for them.  Here are men playing
checkers, dominoes, and other games.  Other groups are standing around the folding billiard
tables.  A hundred men have taken out books from the circulating library, while others are
scanning the home papers and the latest news from the front.

Our secretaries have been on the ground for a week, working daily from five o'clock in the
morning until midnight.  They have unpacked their goods and are doing a driving trade over
the counter, to the value of some $200 a day.  In certain cases goods are sold at a loss, as
it is very hard indeed to get supplies under present war conditions.  The steamer "Kansan"
was torpedoed, and sank with the whole first shipment of supplies and equipment for the Y M
C A huts in France.

Outside a baseball game is exciting rivalry between two companies; while near the door of the
tent a ring is formed and the men are cheering pair after pair as they put on the boxing gloves
and with good humor are learning to take some rather heavy slugging.  Poor boys, they will
have to stand much worse punishment than this before the winter is over.  Just beside the present
tent there is being rushed into position a big Y M C A hut which will accommodate temporarily
a thousand men, before it is taken to pieces and shipped to some new center.  The Association
has ordered from Paris a number of permanent pine huts, 60 by 120 feet, which will accommodate
2,000 soldiers each, and keep them warm and well occupied during the long cold winter evenings
that are to come.  On the railway siding at the moment are nine temporary huts, packed in sections
for immediate construction, and a score of permanent buildings have been ordered to be erected
as fast as the locations for the camps are selected by the military authorities.  Indeed, the
aim is to have them on the ground and ready before the boys arrive and take the first plunge
in the wrong direction.

What is the life that our boys are living here at the front?  Let us go through a day with
the battalion quartered in this village.  At five o'clock in the morning the first bugle sounds.
The boys are quickly on their feet, dressing, washing, getting ready for the day's drill. 
In half an hour they are tucking away a generous breakfast provided by Uncle Sam, of hot bacon,
fried potatoes and coffee, good home made bread, and as much of it as a man can eat.  They
get meat twice a day, and we have found no soldiers in Europe who receive rations that compare
with the food that our boys receive.

By 6:40 a. m. the men have reached the drill ground on the open fields above the village and
are ready to begin the eight or nine hours of hard work and exercise that is before them. 
Half of each day is spent with the French troops, learning more quickly with an object lesson
before them, and the remaining half day is spent in training by themselves.  The French squad
goes through the drill or movement; then the American battalion, after watching them, is put
through the same practice.  They are trained in bayonet work and charges, in musketry and machine
gun practice, in the handling of grenades, and the throwing of bombs.  There is evidence of
speeding up and an apparent pressure to get them quickly into shape, in order to take their
place in the trenches before the winter sets in.  A few weeks at the front with the French
troops will soon give them experience, and after a winter in the trenches, the men of these
first divisions will doubtless form the nucleus for a large American army, and provide the
drill masters quickly to train the men for the spring offensive.

On the day we were there, after a hard morning's drill, the Colonel assembled three battalions
and put them through the first regimental formation and the first regimental review since landing
in France.  The men of the First, Second, and Third battalions marched by, and one could quickly
contrast the disciplined movements of the veterans or old soldiers with the crude drill of
the new recruits, some of whom could not keep step or smoothly execute the movements.

At the noon hour, after the men had taken their midday meal and had rested for a few minutes,
the Colonel asked us if we would address the troops.  Some two thousand men were marched in
close formation around the large military wagon on which we were to stand.  The mules were
unhitched and the men seated themselves on the grass, while the band played several pieces.
A great hunger of heart possesses any man with half a soul as he looks into the faces of these
boys, beset by fierce temptations and facing a terrible winter in the trenches.  At the beginning
we reminded them of the words of Lord Kitchener to his troops before they left for France:
"You are ordered abroad as a soldier. . . Remember that the honor of the Army depends upon
your individual conduct. . .  Your duty cannot be done unless your health is sound.  So keep
constantly on your guard against any excesses.  In this new experience you may find temptations
both in wine and women.  You must entirely resist both temptations, . . . treating all women
with perfect courtesy." [2]  Kitchener's words furnish a text for the two-fold danger which
confronts these men.  Here for an unhurried hour, with the generous backing of the officers,
we plead with the men on military, medical, and moral grounds, for the sake of their own homes
and families, for the sake of conscience and country, on the grounds of duty both to God and
to man, to hold to the high ideals and the best traditions of the homeland.  Here, with no
church save the great dome of God's blue heaven above us, seated on the green grass, under
the warm summer sun, we have the priceless privilege of trying to safeguard the life of these
men in the grave danger of wartime.

We were encouraged alike by the splendid support of the officers and the warm-hearted and eager
response of the men as they broke into prolonged applause.  The General in command attended
one meeting and pledged us his support for our whole program for the men.  He had already cooperated
with us most generously on the Canal Zone, in the Philippines, and in Mexico.  Three colonels
presided at three successive meetings, and gave the work their strong moral support. Three
bands were furnished in two days.  The official backing of the authorities placed the stamp
of approval on the whole moral effort for the welfare of the men.  In no other army in Europe
that we have seen have the officers taken such a keen interest in the highest welfare of the
troops, or offered such constant and efficient cooperation with every effort to surround the
men with the best moral influences.

After the meeting, the regimental parade and the strenuous physical drill of the morning, the
Colonel called for a short break, and the men gathered to learn some popular songs.  Major
Roosevelt assembled his battalion, and Archie Roosevelt enthusiastically led the men in singing
Julia Ward Howe's "Battle Hymn of the Republic" and the modern soldier songs of the war.

After nine hours of hard drill, the men swung cheerfully down the hillside into the village
street.  Now they have lined up, and with ravenous appetites are waiting for the evening meal.
We are almost as hungry as they, and are glad to share the meal with them.  Here on the table
are huge piles of good home-made bread.  It is almost the first white bread we have seen after
months of brown war bread in England and France.  Here are heaping plates of good pork and
beans, tinned salmon, plenty of fried potatoes, and piping hot coffee.  This is followed by
a delicious pudding, as good as the men would have had in their own homes.  Well fed, well
clothed, well equipped, sleeping under Uncle Sam's warm blankets, on comfortable "Gold Medal"
cots, our boys are well cared for.

In another village, at the close of the day, the Colonel commanding two battalions of the infantry
called the men together in the open square of the market place, and after a band concert invited
us to address the troops on the moral issues of the war.  The next day almost the same program
was repeated, and at noon in an open field on a grassy hillside the Major of another battalion
marched out his men for a similar lecture.  Every commanding officer seemed eager to arrange
for meetings, to summon the men, and to back up the messages given to them. Not only have General
Pershing, General Sibert, and the Colonels commanding the various regiments, met us half way
in every plan for the welfare of the troops; but they have taken the initiative in insisting
that every provision should be made for the physical, mental, and moral occupation and safeguarding
of the men.

Probably more men are led astray in the war zone when they go on leave than at any other time,
in reaction from the deadly monotony of camp life, or the inferno of the trenches.  London
and Paris are the chief centers of danger.  In London, just before sailing for the States,
we visited the finely equipped American "Eagle" Hut in the Strand.  It would be difficult to
devise a more homelike or attractive place for soldiers.  In addition to sleeping accommodations
for several hundred men, the lounge and recreation rooms, the big fireplaces and comfortable
chairs suggested the equipment of an up-to-date club, in marked contrast to the surroundings
of a cheerless soldiers' barracks.

In Paris, in addition to the permanent headquarters at 31 Avenue Montaigne, we are hoping to
provide hotels and hostels and guides for supervised parties to see the chief points of interest,
and to plan such healthy occupation for the soldiers that the evils of the city may be counteracted.
Better still we are planning resorts in the French Alps, where summer and winter sports, athletics,
mountain climbing, and physical and mental recreation will obviate altogether the necessity
of leave to Paris for many of the soldiers of the United States and Canada.  In the first resort
we are arranging for special rates and moderate charges at the hotels and have the pledge of
the civil authorities to keep the place wholesome and absolutely to prevent the incoming of
camp followers.  The Association is planning to take over the best hotel, which can be made
into an attractive social center for the entire camp.  A score of American and as many Canadian
ladies will help to provide social recreation and amusement for the men, which will prove a
greater attraction than the dangerous leave in Paris.

A glance at one or two typical meetings held in various camps will show how we are trying to
help our boys face the pressing problems of a soldier's life.

We enter a large hut filled with a thousand soldiers. But Josephine, with the admirable instinct
that kids have to know who loves them, hung around his neck giving particular evidence of affection.
Fernanda also watched with keen interest, with an intense curiosity
that made him extremely open eyes.

Josephine was six, pearly complexion, the eyes of an infinite sweetness, melancholy blue, something
sad and sickly throughout her tiny person. The resemblance to the Count was obvious. When she
left him, the eyes of him collided with Fernanda. He felt embarrassed: he sat down further. Josefina
elegantly dressed.

Quiñones The lords of the lovingly raised as an adopted child. For a long time this was the favorite
topic of gossip Lancia.

Was found with great interest the cost of your hats, it was said
the number of toys that they bought; hacíanse calculations on the
amount that would endow upon marriage.

But they had already tired of so much comment. Shot came only when some allusion was let out
sharp, or news to hear some new discovery. The girl went to a group where they were Maria Josefa,
the maid of the devastating language, and Manuel Antonio, beautiful long as the first ray of
the morning. - Listen, Josefina: who you love more, your sponsor or your sponsor? - asked one.
- A godmother - the girl replied without hesitation. - And who want more, " to your sponsor or
the count?

She looked surprised with his big blue eyes. They went through a flurry of suspicion and replied
wrinkling her pretty brow: - In my godfather. - But the count does
not bring you many toys?

Do not drive takes you to the farm? Do not you have purchased the
charro outfit? - Yes ... but it is my godfather.

The laughter group welcomed this response.

They understood that the girl was lying.

Don Pedro was not the man to inspire affection lively one. - Well, I think the count is also your
pa ... Drina. - Not so, I have no more than one sponsor - said the
girl, every time more suspicious.

And he left the group.

She went to Amalia stood over him crossing his arms over his chest and bowing said: - Godmother, the
blessing.

The lady gave him her hand, kissed the girl friendly affection.

Then, taking her in his arms, kissed her forehead. - Rest, my dear. Go and ask a blessing to your
sponsor. The girl went to the cabinet.

These practices are very pleased last time Mr de Quiñones.

Josefina approached him shyly.

That gave him paralyzed nobleman always afraid, but tried to hide
it because that he had ordered his godmother. - Lord's blessing -
said in a muffled voice.

The high and mighty maestrante ignored. Fixed on the cards in his hand, wrapped in gray Talma red
cross on his chest, at times grew embarrassed in the eyes of the
poor Josephine.

Did not understand that nothing in the world had bigger, more impressive
and worthy of respect that the noble lord.

In this opinion involved D. Pedro. So long ago that it had resolved to mislead all the beings
around him in a chaotic mass, which appeared only two or three with
a single character.

The girl waited with his arms crossed about a quarter of an hour.

At last M. de Quiñones, after playing one inning with fortune, she
deigned to pierce a stern look that made her pale.

He reached his aristocratic hand with a gesture worthy of his namesake
Peter the Great of Russia, and Josephine fell on her trembling lips
and left.

I was not
as exalted as the man with his wife so nourishing them mime to a foundling, but consented because it
flattered his vanity.

Amalia had told him, knowing where it hurt - would bring her home
to anyone in Lancia.

We must do things differently. D. Pedro could not help but feel the weight of this undeniable
truth. Josefina crossed the room to go to bed. To skim with Fernanda, who was sitting alone, it's
caught on the fly by a little arm and pulled. All the joy, all the tenderness that at that time
overflowed his heart, desbordose with violence on the child, who covered it with kisses. Not agreed
to anything of his rival, who guessed expired. Just thought it was his daughter, his blood, his
own image.

And kissed her deep blue eyes ecstasy, melancholy, that pearly complexion, those golden curls that
circles his face like a halo of light. - Oh, what beautiful hair! What a beautiful thing, my God!
And pressed his lips against him and even dipped his face in his threads with such delight and tenderness
that was about to mourn.

At that moment a loud voice, commanding, rang in his ears. - you have not yet gone to bed, urchin!
And looking up he saw Amalia, his face pale, his lips pursed, he
grabbed the girl violently by the arm giving you a hard landing and
dragged to the door.

XI Amalia's
anger.

The
next morning, Paula, by order of her mistress, took the girl a quarter
of the plate, sat in a high chair and asked for the scissors to the
maid, who sewed the foot of the balcony. - What you gonna do - asked
Josefina. - haircut. - Why?

... I do not want to cut my hair. And the chair down firmly. Paula returned to lift it. - Quiet!
- He said sternly. - I do not want! ... Not! - Said with a graceful resolution. - The truth
is that pity so beautiful a hair cut - said another of the maids, who
was ironing. - What do you, child?

Who commands, commands. And taking one of the beautiful curls of hair, separated it a snip.
- Let me go, Paula! - the girl shouted .-- I'll tell godmother! - Yes, sweetheart? Are you really
telling godmother? ... Well, I'll tell when we finish.

And without more attention to their protests, dropping the words
buzz, continued its work undisturbed.

But she got back, irritated, angry.

Paula then asked for help from Shell, the seamstress, and as she held her to the chair, it's been stripped
one by one from all loops.

  
    
  Then "the best of his remaining hair. - What a
    pity! - she cried a laundress. - Daughter, is not so bad either -
said Paula neatly combed.

At that moment came the lady in the picture of the door. - Godmother!

See, godmother! ... Look, Paula and Concha me cut your hair. Amalia advanced a few steps around
the room and avoiding the gaze of the child, severe eye fixed on
his head, and said coldly empire - not right as well.

You cut the monkfish.

And he walked away with wrinkled brow.

Josefina, stunned, his eyes followed her. I had never seen her godmother's face so cold and hard.
He was amazed, and thoughtful and left without making the slightest
movement, Paula fulfill the mandate.

It soon
became the head blond peeled like a peach.

The home erupted into laughter. - Daughter of my soul, that you have
retefeísima! - Mary said the laundress with a tone of mourning, but
could not help laughing. - Do not say that women - said Concha dejillo
bitter .-- If you are beautiful! was a woman of twenty years or more,
extremely small, almost as small as Josephine, with sunken eyes and
wild, to whom all feared servants of the house.

Paula laughed too, and reviewing past their
hands over the head of the creature. - When you need a perulero for
oil, you know where you have to find - continued Concha. dissipated
pity, guessing that the little girl had fallen into disgrace, the
maids were given to changing joy jokes without grace, but that made
them laugh madly.

Josefina had remained quiet, silent, with bowed head.

The jeers were able at last to make its effect.

Two tears came dripping from her long lashes.

Concha was annoyed: - Do you cry for the little hair? .. Too bad lashes!
... Not your fault, but those who like a little princess will be
raised as much as we ... I say, unless we - he said softly, - at last
we have parents. - Come on, Concha, leave!

... Never mind, Monina, who will soon have hair again - said Mary
with maternal stress.

The girl, impressed by the touch, began to sob and left the room.

When the evening was made in the living room, that way , the count
could not repress a gesture of rage and stabbed a questioning look
in Amalia.

This responded to the gesture and the look with a provocative smile.

And he cried aloud, as she was told to cut his hair because he had
noticed that the girl began to show off. - Sure!

Both
the flatter you that it has become unbearable! Earl, irritated, immediately sought opportunity to
approach and knotted Fernanda's talk last night. They were talkative, affectionate. Fernanda
had details of Paris life. Luis was singularly expansive, not hiding
the joy of his heart, talking animatedly under the glare of Amalia
perched on him.

In a break Fernanda looked up smiling into her ex-boyfriend and asked,
not without blushing a little: - do not know why they've cut the hair
of the child?

"The count looked at him without answering. - Yesterday I praised
him a lot and let me kiss him.

It was the first time that Fernanda was given cognizance of his secret.

He felt a strong jolt. Her cheeks flushed. The of it too.

In a long time found no words to say. In the following days, the
count began to walk down the street repeated Altavilla and spending
time in the cafe of Maranhao.

Laciense society was touched to the ground to size event. Since then, more than three hundred pairs
of eyes constantly watching him.

He stopped going every day and attended Quiñones house once in a
while the tiny coterie of Mere, as Lancia was saying, but in reality
it would not have in the world more than one.

Carmelita had died at least three years. There was nothing that Nuncia, the youngest, and that
almost completely paralyzed. The chair to the bed and bed to chair, was all that was with work.
Morally was also deprived of movement, lack of protective impulse
that was paying his sister.

Since it came down to the grave, and who was not holding it. This,
far from cheer, the sank into a deep melancholy.

As he passed
suddenly to the category of person sui juris, the poor girl had experienced incredible distress:
all frightened him, it was all conflicts of which it seemed impossible
to leave, threw least those harsh rebukes that if many tears were
shed, had suppressed his youthful healthy starts and cut off the fatal
results that might arise in inexperience. were his regular chats pollastre
some new, some roosters known and a larger number of beautiful and
ugly ladies who came to the house-hungry husband.

Because the girl, in that as in all religiously kept the traditions
inherited from his sister.

It was the strong protective of all engagements that were initiated in Lancia, for foolish they
were. The small house on Calle del Carpio was still forging the forge
where conjugal happiness of Lancia's neighbors honest.

The record that came over was Paco Gomez.

The reason, he had thrown Quiñones house as a result of a phrase of
his.

Asked a stranger in a crowd of how he had been paralyzed Altavilla the maestrante. "Is not really paralyzed
- Paco said - it does not have any injury, except that the legs can not cope with heraldry that
has been uploaded to the head, and bend it in one step. "He knew Quinones by a traitor, ordered
that he was not received. It was the soul and joy of the party of
the girl.

The incessant be mortified that it had them all in continuous spasm of laughter. - Come on, Nuncia,
be very careful! Do not talk too much, because you know that I have seen the calves y. .. y. .. y. ..
octogenarian Poor blushed like a girl of fifteen.

Nothing stifled as much as this unwelcome reminder of the afternoon of
swing. Luis and Fernanda started to be here once or twice a week.

Far from the gleaming eyes of Amalia, it was comfortable, regained
his composure.

They spoke very long periods in a low voice, without anyone bothering them, on the contrary,
the girl was careful to provide sufficient time and space. Attended, however, Quiñones house, saw
Amalia in secret when it is required, but would appear colder, more elusive. She, warning him
perfectly, did not budge, did not speak a word of his ex-girlfriend.

However, one day he could not contain himself: - I know you entertain
at home long hours of talking with Fernanda Mere.

He denied cowardly. - Be careful what you do - he went on, staring at him with sinister eyes,
- because a betrayal could get away face. I was so used to the domain of that awful woman, she
felt a cold shudder, as if something ominous and hovered overhead. But when he went out into the
street, outside the magnetic influence of those eyes that troubled him, felt himself invaded
by a silent irritation: "After all, why threaten me? Is it my wife?

What rights does about me? What we are doing is a grave sin, is a
crime.

Who can deprive me of repentance, reconciliation with God and be
good?

"Repentance was recently a vague desire due to fatigue of her love
and further divestment fear hell inspired him.

Now it became real yearning. Truth that offered more attractive. Courageously reject sin, purify, get
rid of eternal fire ... and also have to Fernanda. had long criminal
relations had only a blip, Josefina.

If it were not for her, was gone for Lancia.

This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence of
the dove, the gentle melancholy of a moonlit night, spread over his
soul, tormented by remorse, the cooling balm deliciously.

Many times, holding in his arms, surprised wondered how one so innocent, so pure, so divine, could
be the child of sin! But even during that same girl was new and cruel tortures. Not her alone but
from time to time, be forced to hide his feelings, to kiss her coldly as other, more coolly
than the others can not call her daughter's heart, not chirping feel the tender name of father,
he was saddened and certain times he despaired. Desquitábase when once in a while, very rare, he consented
to take her to the farm. He spent hours in ecstasy, holding on his
knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of affection and thanks. Sometimes I
felt his head blonde wet with tears of his friend. She raised her eyes in surprise, but seeing
him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to kiss. - Why are you crying, Luis? Do
you pupa? Josefina did not understand that he had serious reason in the world to mourn. Luis
loved dearly, and that shocked and saddened him the cold than she used ordinarily. Little by little had
been guessing, with early instinct that the Count wanted more than the others and to conceal.
She also adopted, following the example, an attitude of indifference
when he approached him in public.

But when alone, gave himself up with the same enthusiasm to the expansions
of the honey, and this without knowing why, without realizing what
he did. From the day his godmother ordered off her hair, she could
feel that there was Josefina disgraced. I no longer kiss with transportation,
no longer satisfied their cravings minimum was no longer the constant
concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent
tone, and the maids followed the example of his wife. The poor child, without
understanding what that change meant, he felt his little heart tightened;
exploring with its beautiful deep eyes the faces and tried to decipher
the enigma that kept.

He became more serious, more suspicious,
more timid. And he denied seeing toys or candy before awarding him with
both hands, refrained from asking. Amalia, instead of enjoying as before
with their children because it seemed shun them. He ordered that they
did not take the morning to bed, as usual. When encountered by chance
in the corridors, passed by avoiding her. A whole closer he asked
in a tone dismissive: - Have not you washed yet? Go, go get fixed. Or:
"I heard you did not know the catechism. We're getting very lazy.

Care
to be good, because if you locked in the cave of the mice. "Dealt
with her before taking her lessons, put the needle in his hand and
guide their tiny fingers.

Now this task usually left to the maids. He lived in a gloomy
state of worry that the servants went desadvertida.

Josefina also guessed,
was her godmother was changed, not only with respect to it, but throughout
his nature.

And there, vaguely
in the dark limbo of his thought is engendered the idea that he was distressed
that he was suffering and that this was the cause of your bad mood. One day
the lady was alone in his cabinet. It had dropped into a chair. Motionless,
his head thrown back and hands earrings, seemed asleep. However, Josephine,
who was around the cabinet, he dared to look through the crack in the
door and saw that his eyes were open, wide open, and that furrowed
brow was fearfully. Not knowing what was done with that blind children
have confidence in themselves, opened the door and entered the room.
Quietly approached the lady, and suddenly throwing his lap, he said,
fixing her a look of shy affection: - Kiss me, godmother.

The lady shuddered. - How you doing here? Who
gave you permission to enter?

Have not you been told not to go up without you call? - Asked further
pursing his brow. - Wanted to give you a kiss - a faint voice said
Josephine. - Let me kisses.

Go, go
watch it again without my permission. But the girl, overwhelmed by emotion, not
knowing what to attribute this indifference and wanting to win at
any cost, next to mourn, fell further on his lap and tried to climb
to reach his face. - Kiss me, godmother. - Remove!

Let me! - Impeding it lifted the lady
replied. The girl persisted. - You do not want?
 
If your confidence goes, you lose ninety per cent of your defense, for the sole hope of the
enemy in gas is surprise and panic. If you are gassed, don't move.  Keep still, keep warm,
don't worry, and wait.  To move or try to save yourself will be fatal.

"The enemy will put over three or four waves with a break between.  The gas may come for some
hours.  To remove your helmet before the attack is over will be fatal.  Within a quarter of
an hour after the gas has ceased, the charge of the enemy will come and you must never let
him get past your barbed wired entanglements.  After exposure to gas, all food, water, and
wells are poisonous.  The heavy gas must be expelled from the trenches by fans before the charge
comes.  Only remember, you must believe what I say, keep your helmet on in time of danger and
you are perfectly safe."

There is a vast difference between the warning and the preparatory exposure to the gas by your
guide and the deadly surprise of the enemy. The former is a trial to prepare you, the latter
is an effort to destroy you.  The whole experience was so obviously parallel to the deadly
moral dangers which surround the soldier in war time that it needs no comment.  The one and
only safety in the time of temptation is to put on the whole armor of God, especially the "helmet
of salvation," then to trust and obey and stand fast.

The writer has just come from a ward in the hospital filled with patients suffering from the
new gas which the enemy has lately put over.  It is, as we have said, invisible and odorless,
so the men receive no warning, and consequently do not put on their masks.  They do not know
that they are being gassed until hours afterwards, when they find they are burned from head
to foot.  Here are twenty men lying in this tent, suffering from this new torture.  This first
boy, with a wan smile that goes right to your heart, can only whisper from his burnt-out lungs
and cannot tell us his story.  The next man was taken with vomiting five hours after the gas
shells exploded.  Seven of his fourteen companions sleeping in the dugout were killed outright,
the others were gassed.  He does not know where they are.  He lay unconscious for several days,
and now his eyes and skin are burned as though he had passed through a fire.  The next boy
is badly burned in his eyes and chest.  Half the men of his battery were killed by gas while
asleep at night.  On the next cot is a boy who has been suffering for seventeen days; the burns
on his body have been improving, his lungs also are better, but he is still blind and fears
he may lose his sight.  He asks me to write a letter for him to his mother.  "Only," he says,
"don't tell her about my eyes."  Together we make up a cheerful letter, and the boy rests back
on his cot to pray for his returning eyesight.  The next two beds are empty.  Both the men
died in the night, falling an easy prey to pneumonia in their weakened condition. The next
boy is from the infantry.  Out of his squad nine were killed by the explosion of the shell,
eight wounded, and the rest badly burned.  The neck, chest, arms, and legs of this boy are
burned and blistered.  The deadly gas fumes have burned right through his clothing.

Such is the effect of this new and latest triumph of modern science, which will shatter the
hopes and happiness of thousands of homes.

After passing through the gas chambers, we visited the bombing section of the training school.
Here each man has to throw one or more live bombs and receive his final coaching.  The bomb
is about the size of a lemon, and is made to break into small fragments.  It contains enough
of the high explosive to kill a whole group of men.  The boy advances and grasps the bomb;
he draws out the pin and holds down the lever. Once this is released, it explodes in just five
seconds.  The man heaves his bomb over a parapet at a dummy dressed in German uniform. The
whistle blows and we all duck.  There is a terrific explosion like a small cannon and you hear
the pieces whizzing through the air.  Every man is holding in his hand and wielding a terrible
power.  Wrongly used, it is death to himself and his comrades.  The other day a boy's hand
was moist with perspiration and the bomb slipped, killing the group.  Another prematurely exploded
as it was being thrown, carrying away the man's own hand and killing the instructor.  So it
is a dangerous business.  During the morning there were only four "duds," or bombs that would
not go off.

After the bombing section, we pass with the men to the trenches. Bayonets are drawn and rifles
loaded.  After firing several rounds, comes the command, "Advance."  At a bound they are "over
the top" and off, heads down; they run very slowly and keep together.  A breathless man who
outruns his comrades is useless and is soon killed by the enemy.  The drill sergeant shouts
to the men "Keep together, keep together, men, one man can't take a trench," and my friend
the "padre" notes his words to tell to his congregation when he goes home, where the minister
can't do all the work.  When they are near the enemy's trench, the final word "Charge" is shouted,
the whole line leaps forward with a wild yell, and the bayonets are driven into the stuffed
sacks which are suspended as dummies to serve in the place of men.

For miles across the great plain the "Bull Ring" is alive with men. Here in one section they
are doing physical drill and learning to go over all kinds of obstacles--trenches, fences,
barbed wire, shell holes, and ditches.  There they are practicing musketry and advancing under
cover.  In one place the artillery is in full swing, and in another you hear the sputter of
the machine guns.  In one section they are taught to dig trenches and in another to take them.

Before a great advance where a system of trenches is to be taken, a "rehearsal" often takes
place.  From a height of thousands of feet above the lines the aircraft with powerful telescopic
cameras photograph every foot of the battlefield covered by the enemy's lines. These photographs
are developed and studied and diagrams drawn from them of the enemy's system of trenches. 
These diagrams are reproduced far behind the front in elaborately prepared earthwork and trenches
which are an exact replica of the enemy's lines.  The divisions which are to take part in the
attack are sent back to rehearse their exact duties at just the point corresponding to that
which they will have to take.  Each officer knows every nook and crevice, each bay and angle
of the trenches he will have to capture.  When all is ready the men are placed in their exact
positions and they execute in reality what they have rehearsed in theory behind the lines.
The lesson of preparedness and organization is studied and mastered with infinite care.

CHAPTER IV

WITH THE BRITISH ARMY

I

In sheltered America we cannot realize what war means, but when we entered the warring countries
of Europe, in an instant we were in a different atmosphere.  We landed in England upon a darkened
coast, we entered a darkened train, where every blind was drawn lest it furnish a guide to
London for invading Zeppelins or aeroplanes.  We passed through gloomy towns and villages,
where not a single light was showing from a window, where every street lamp and railway station
was darkened or hidden.  Automobiles with a dim spark of light groped through the black streets
of the metropolis.

In London we saw a great Zeppelin brought down in flames.  It was a sight never to be forgotten.
At half-past two in the morning we were awakened by the roar of the anti-aircraft guns in and
around the city. After traveling all night from Germany, one Zeppelin had arrived over London
and a whole fleet of them was scattered over the coasts and counties of England.

We sprang to the window and found the sky swept by a score of searchlights with their great
shafts of piercing light, shooting from the dark depths of the city high into the sky, where
they all converged on a single bright object that hung nine thousand feet above us.  Long,
and shining like silver with its flashing aluminum, the Zeppelin seemed held as if blinded
by the fierce light.  Bombs were dropping from it and explosions followed in rapid succession
in the city beneath.

It was a battle to the death, high in the air with all London looking on.  The guns were in
full play and the shell and shrapnel were bursting all about the Zeppelin.  Sometimes you could
trace the whole trajectory of a projectile, as a spark of light swept through the sky toward
the Zeppelin and then burst to the right or left, above or below it.  Most of the shots seemed
to go wide of the mark.  More than a score of aeroplanes had been sent up to attack it, with
one plane to guide the rest and signal to the guns below by wireless or lights.  The battle
finally developed into a duel to the death between the machine guns of the Zeppelin and Lieutenant
Robinson of the Flying Corps, who was up for two hours in his aeroplane after the enemy--one
man fighting for a city of five millions.  He attacked from below and bombs were thrown at
his plane; then he attacked from the side as he circled about the monster, but he was driven
off by their machine guns.  At last, mounting high in the sky, he attacked from above.  The
guide-plane flashed down the signal for the guns to cease firing and give him a chance.

For a few moments all was silent; the battle seemed to be over.  The great airship, which had
swung sharply to the left, was triumphantly leaving for home.  Then it was that Robinson dropped
his incendiary bomb.  Suddenly there was an explosion.  A flame of burning gas leaped into
the sky.  London was lit up for ten miles round-about.  Our room was instantly as bright as
though a searchlight had flashed into the window.  Far above us was the Zeppelin in flames.
Now it began to sink--first it was in a blaze of white light, then its outline turned to a
dull red, finally it crumpled to a glowing cinder, sank from sight, and fell crashing to the
earth.  Then all was dark again.  Death had fallen suddenly upon the men in the Zeppelin and
upon some in the sleeping city below.

As we drove through London we passed the draper's shop, near St. Paul's Cathedral, where George
Williams and a group of twelve young men met in a little upper room on June 6, 1844, to organize
the first Young Men's Christian  Association.  A dozen young men with little wealth, influence,
or education might not seem a very formidable force, but twelve men have upset the world and
changed the course of history before now.  They had only thirteen shillings, or $3.25, in the
treasury, and were too poor even to print and send out a circular announcing their little organization.
But George Williams brought his fist down on the table, with the confident words, "If this
movement is of God, the money will come."

It has come.  The twelve men have been multiplied now to a million and a half, scattered in
forty lands.  Girded with new strength and with the dauntless optimism of youth, the movement
has risen up to minister not only to the millions of British and American soldiers and munition
workers, but also to the men in the camps, hospitals, or prisons in most of the nations now
at war.  The thirteen shillings have been multiplied until now the permanent Y M C A buildings
are worth over a hundred million dollars.  An average of two new huts or centers have been
erected and opened by the British or American Associations every day since war was declared;
while two permanent buildings in brick or stone rise each week in some part of the world.

Wars are the birth-pangs of new eras.  A new day dawned for the Young Men's Christian Association
with the present war.  At midnight on August 4, 1914, the British Association as it had been
for seventy years was buried and forgotten, and a new movement arose on the ruins of the old.
Ninety per cent of its former workers left to join the colors, but a new army of over thirty
thousand men and women was mustered and trained within its huts for the service of the British
soldiers.  The Y M C A had suddenly to "think imperially," and to minister to a world at war.

Seventy years ago George Williams was the man of the hour, but a leader of the British war
work of the Y M C A was found in the present crisis in the person of Mr. A. K. Yapp, General
Secretary of the National Council of Great Britain, who has recently been knighted by virtue
of his distinguished service for the nation. The times of the Romans and Barbarians have left no traditions
at home but dark or sad. It was in the twelfth century, under the authority of the empire of
the Franks, which was submitted to the country as part of Burgundy trasjurásica, the dukes of Zaehringen
resolved to create a system of free cities that resist the ambition
and the depredations robbers called the noble lords. To this end Freiburg
was founded in 1179, with special privileges of a free city, but
feudatory of empire, as its name indicates, under a constitution similar
to that of Cologne.

The mighty city of Berne was born in the same aspiration, being noted the similarity of position of Fribourg
and Berne, both occupy impregnable peninsulas formed by rivers deep and equipped with strong strategic
defenses. Until the mid-fifteenth century was dominated first Freiburg by its founders and then by the
Germanic empire, successor of the Franks, and especially for the house of Habsburg. This appears
in the wars against Bern and the Swiss Confederates.

That house gave him his freedom, but soon fell Freiburg, insolvent,
in the hands of the Counts of Savoy, his creditors. The war waged
by Charles the Bold led to Freiburg with the Patriots aliase Swiss
regained its independence with the victory of Morat.

In 1481, enlarged with several acquisitions, came to appear as Canton of the Confederation, and
later enlarged its territory at the expense of the inhabitants, through covenants or friendly
local conquest. The aristocratic regime dominated entirely in Freiburg until 1798, when it the French
intervention favored the democratic revolution. The European coalition in 1814 restored the previous
state, but the revolutions of 1831 and 1847 (mostly the latter) ensured the triumph of the democratic
republic.

However, should not be taken to the letter this qualification, as there is enough difference between
liberalism or democracy on the radicalism of Fribourg and Geneva, Vaud, Neuchâtel, etc. The aristocratic
party has made vain efforts to regain power, it is true, and Canton, which until 1847 had been
one of the most backward of the Confederation (like Lucerne, where he still dominated the Jesuits),
is today one of the forces liberalism.
  They stretch from the rest huts of the great metropolis, with sleeping
and feeding accommodations for some ten thousand men a day during the dangerous period of leave
in London, away to the hut in "Plug Street" Woods, recently blown to atoms by a shell, where
the secretary escaped by a few seconds and returned to find literally nothing left save the
rims of his spectacles and two coins melted and fused together by the terrific heat of the
explosion. Several of the secretaries and workers have been killed by shell fire, or in transit
by torpedoes from submarines, while other Association men have received the Victoria Cross
for heroism in action.

Let us visit a typical hut to grasp the significance of its work, in order that we may realize
what is going on in the fifteen hundred similar centers.  We are on the great Salisbury Plain,
in the midst of thirty miles square of weltering mud during the long winter months.  To realize
what a hut means to the men in such a place, we must understand the unnatural situation created
by the conditions of war.  Here are multitudes of men far from home, shut out from the society
of all good women, taken away from their church and its surroundings, weary and wet with marching
and drilling, often lonely and dejected, in an atmosphere of profanity and obscenity in the
cheerless barrack rooms, and tempted by the animal passions which are always loosed in war-time.
The men need all the help we can give them now, and need it desperately.

Now can you measure just what a big warm hut means to these men as a home, far away from home?
The red triangle at the entrance gleams across the whole camp and stands for the three things
the soldier most needs.

It stands, in the first place, as a pledge for supplying the physical need of these hungry,
lonely, and fiercely tempted men.  A dry shelter, a warm fire, a cheerfully lighted room, the
bursts of song, and the hum of conversation make the men forget the wind and rain and mud outside.
Supper and a hot cup of coffee satisfy their hunger.  On the notice-board is the announcement
of the outdoor sports, football tournaments, and the games, where the thirty thousand men of
the division will compete in open contest on the coming Saturday, under the direction of the
Y M C A.  Whatever the soldier needs for his physical life, whether it is to eat or to sleep,
a bed in London, a cool drink in the thirsty desert, or hot coffee in the trenches, it is furnished
for him by the Association. 

Give me a kiss. - To take off, little girl! - Shouted angry .-- Get
out now!

At the same time gave a strong push.

Josefina, after staggering, fell to the ground, hitting his head at the foot of a chair. Alzose
touching his sore spot, but did not cry.

A sense of dignity, often staying with strength in children's hearts, lent strength to endure the tears
that sprang into her eyes. He led his godmother a look of indescribable sadness and ran from
the room. When he reached the ladder fell on a step and began to sob. The thorns of life began to
dig cruelly delicate meat of the girl, who until then had found only
flowers in their path.

The detachment of Amalia was growing day by day. The pair also grew reserve and timidity of her
daughter. But the end was a child, this sadness disipábase sometimes the impulse of a whim. So
it was when it really showed the coldness and dislike of the lady. - Mrs Josephine does not want
to wear the green dress. - Well? - Says it is dirty. Amalia got up, went to the room of the girl
and taking her by the arm and shaking her rudely, she said: - What
pride is that?

Do not you know, baby, that this house you're nobody?

What are you here for mercy?

Be careful not to get angry, because one fine day you planted in
the street, where I have collected.

The servants heard these words and were still present. Josefina had hitherto
been treated as a daughter of Mr.: henceforth it was regarded as
a daughter false; later, as upstart.

The servants pleasure of revenge with meticulous care before she
had to lavish, those receiving harsh rebukes for their cause.

Concha In particular, the microscopic maiden, he felt a joy unspeakable
evil his character and resentful whenever Mrs. somehow showed his disdain
for the child collection.

This was in a room overlooking
the garden, bright and spacious. Concha, but first maid and seamstress
in the house, were staying in a dismal little room, with window to the patio,
which he shared with Mary.
 As we have already seen, it is his home, the place where he writes his letters and keeps
in touch with his family and distant friends. Nearly twenty million pieces of stationery are
sent out free for the soldiers each month from the London central office, and the sign of the
red triangle on the letter head brings weekly joy and cheer to the broken circle in the distant
home.  It is here that the lad is helped to "keep the home fires burning" in his heart and
to hold true to those high ideals.  One little girl when visiting the Crystal Palace, upon
seeing the sign of the red triangle, said: "My daddy always makes that mark on his letters
when he writes to us at home."

3. It is his church, for out on the desert, or in the jungle, or at the front, there is usually
no other church building for religious services.  The following is taken from a typical Sunday
program in one of the huts: "6:30 a. m., Roman Catholic Mass; 7:30 Nonconformist service; 9:00
Anglican service; 2-3 p. m., Bible class; 6:4:5-8 United Song Service."  Thus each denomination
is allowed to have its own service in its own way on Sunday morning, while the evening meeting
is interdenominational and open to all.

In one place where the young Hebrews were being sadly neglected and were falling away from
their former moral standards, the secretary arranged with the Jewish rabbi to have a weekly
service in the Y M C A tent for his men.  It has been held ever since.  The Jews of the neighboring
city were so grateful that they started a campaign to raise a fund of $10,000 for Y M C A huts.
The Rev. Michael Adler, the head Jewish rabbi with the forces in France, has time and again
expressed his cordial appreciation of the help rendered to the men of his faith. The doors
of the Association will always remain open for men of all creeds.  As wide as the needs of
men, as broad as democracy, as unified as humanity, and as tolerant as its Lord and Master,
the movement will ever aim to be.

4. The Association hut is the soldier's school.  Here his classes are held.  A program taken
at random from a single hut will show the scope of a week's work: "Bible classes; religious
services; lecture on The Town Where We Are; lecture on South America; lantern lecture on Russia;
debating society; impromptu speeches; history class."

5. The Association hut is also his place of rest, and the shop where he buys his supplies.
Here he can procure almost anything he needs that is decent, and read anything that is wholesome.
Usually this hut is the only clean place of recreation in the camp, and without it he is left
to choose between the cheerless tent and the beer canteen.

6. The Y M C A is the center of his recreation, and his entertainment bureau. More than once he had expressed
in words rather heavy for it. Taking advantage of the arrangement of his mistress, was allowed to sleep
also in this cabinet, on the pretext that Paula, who occupied an adjoining room, had a deep sleeper.
Instalose comfortably, made use of the toilet and the girl's belongings. A few days later sent her
to sleep with Mary in her old room, without saying a word to her mistress. When she found out,
and had spent some time: no harsh rebuke for not having taken part, but did not alter the facts.
Later it occurred to him otherwise degrade. Josefina ate at the table
with the lords.

Maestrante The high and mighty had not consented to it at first: badgered by his wife, gave the
order, not without reluctance. Concha, imbued with the dislike of her mistress, began to plot to deprive
this honor to the collection. Exaggerating what was to be done, how much and what were stained disturbed
the service of the table, eventually managed to not sit in it and yes a little girl who was put on
the fourth of the plate, near the kitchen. A few days later the same
Amalia, in a fit of bad temper, said that dual service could not be tolerated
and they took her to the kitchen to eat with the servants.

Concha sat on a stool, put an earthenware dish and a wooden spoon in her hand and said: -
Come. The girl looked up stunned, but seeing the evil grin that shone
in the eyes of the maiden, Bajol again and began to eat without protest.

Concha was not satisfied, wishing they rebel mourn view. - What is that?
Do not like the spoon?

... Well, my daughter, eat with it, and also how I am as good as
you ... What did you think, silly!

Did you think that because you put the hat and shirt were a Miss batista ... The ladies do not
come tucked in a basket between dirty ... and continued dropping to around dripping with sarcasm and
insults, until at last the poor Josephine began to mourn.

The other maids, less malevolent, were, however, flattered by this humiliation. At last he took his
hand, tried to comfort her, while Concha, ruthless, tougher and cooler than marble, continued
chasing bloody long time with boos. A few days later, Josefina across the room from the plate
to go to room, heard Shell say to Mary: - Say, kid, are you ironing
clothes and orphans of?

He paused, not knowing whom she meant, and looked from one to another suspicious of home, until a laugh,
both released at the same time made him understand that it was her. - Why did you call me orphans
of? - said the innocent struggling not to mourn .-- I'll tell my godmother. - Alza, runs to tell!
- Concha said pushing on the door. Since then he was given another
name among the servants.

Amalia
prohibited the evening wear to the salon. The count, who no longer see his daughter more than
this time, demanded an explanation.

The lady said, must get up early to study his lessons, he needed
more sleep.

He did not believe that for. Realized that this was a dastardly revenge, but was careful to
keep silent, fearing further damage. A Amalia then came up hurting him more
directly.

The girl, who had been deprived not only of
his touch, but of all its preeminence in the house, on his way to
being a maid more.

In an instant
was transformed completely.

The lady gave orders to guard him all the hats and dresses and
secure his the poorest and oldest of the wardrobe, which would make
him a gown as the other servants, and are employed in the necessities
of the kitchen that could run.
  Captain "Peg" stepped to the stage
and soon had them singing, "We'll Never Let the Old Flag Fall."  Roars of applause followed
and they clamored for more. Out in the glare of the footlights and looking into that sea of
faces, we began to fight for that audience.  There were two thousand tempted men whom we should
never see again.  In five minutes the whole theater was hushed--you could hear a pin drop.
After half an hour the meeting was interrupted by the noise of the band outside.  Surely the
men will bolt and leave the meeting.  We said to them: "Boys, there is the band. Let everybody
go now who wants to go!  We are going on.  Every man that wants to make the fight for character,
the fight for purity with the help of Jesus Christ, stay with us here."  There was a shout
from the audience, and not a man left the theater.  The band thundered on, but the crowd was
with us now, and the hopes of hundreds of hearts for the things that are eternal surged to
the surface.  Several hundred men signed the War Roll, pledging their allegiance to the Lord
Jesus Christ.  One sailor boy came up to thank us, saying that he had all but fallen the week
before; and simply for the lack of a sixpence he had been saved from sin.  With God's help
he would now live for Christ. Another came up who had been drinking heavily and had quarreled
with his wife.  He did not have the price of a postage stamp to write to her.  He wanted to
know how he could be saved from drink.  Man after man came forward, hungry for human help and
longing for a better life.

On another occasion we were with the army of Australian and New Zealand troops, as they were
marching by the King at their last review before going to the front.  Fortunately, we had secured
standing room near the King's side, where we could watch every smile and action as he saluted
each passing battalion, and we could even hear him speak a kind word now and then to some officer.
There were generals to the right of us and to the left of us, colonels, majors, captains, officers
of every rank, and prominent civilians; but the greatest man on that field was the soldier
himself.  With what a swing those clean-cut young Australian boys marched past; every man was
a volunteer and part of that great first army of over four millions of men who came forward
for the defense of the Empire without conscription.

Hundreds were playing in the massed bands, as the long file of men marched by.  But time and
again the firm columns seemed to fade before us, and we could not see them for tears, as we
realized that many of these brave boys were going forward to die for us.  Above, a great aeroplane
was looping the loop and warplanes were darting to and fro.

Away on the horizon stood the great boulders of Stonehenge, erected long before the time of
the Saxons, the Britons, or even the ancient Druids, by the sun-worshippers, who offered their
human sacrifices on the ancient altar there nearly forty centuries before.  We looked at those
stones, where through a mistaken conception of God and an inadequate conception of man, human
sacrifices were offered long ago. Suddenly we heard the crack of the rifles of a body of troops
at practice, moving forward in open line of battle.  Today, through a mistaken conception of
God and a low conception of man, over 5,000,000 of men have already been killed, offered in
human sacrifice; while many millions in lands devastated are homeless, starving, or ruined
in body or soul--these are part of the offering, forced upon humanity by a godless materialism,
while a divided Christian Church stands by impotent.

II

Let us now visit Egypt where we shall witness very different scenes. Away on the distant horizon
are the two triangular points, which grow as we approach into the outlines of the great pyramids.
Beyond are the fifty-eight centers which have risen along the banks of the Nile, in the metropolis
of Cairo, and in the harbors of Port Said and Alexandria, and which line the Suez Canal and
dot the desert even out into the peninsula of Mt. Sinai.  The sun is setting as we climb the
great pyramid, which stands a silent witness to forty centuries of history which have ebbed
and flowed at its base, but surely no stranger sight has it ever seen than these armed camps
about it, engaged in this titanic struggle of the world.  Away to the south towards far Khartoum,
like a green ribbon in the yellow desert, stretches the irrigated basin of the Nile. His other
four sons would be official.

The father was preparing the ground so they could join the Guard or in some aristocratic regiment without
peer body to vote against their admission offer. The two girls would marry certainly old
enough when they had with officers of the Hussars who hold on behalf of a particle noble, proud
and gracious lords of the talking with enthusiasm Misia Petrona's daughter. The installation
was worth Hartrott their new friends.

At home in Berlin, the easement was in knee-breeches and white wig nights of great food. Karl had bought
an old castle with pointed towers, ghosts in the basement and several
legends of murder, assault and rape, that enlivened its history in
an interesting way.

An architect decorated with many foreign orders, and also held the title of "Director of Construction"
was responsible for modernizing the medieval building without losing its terrifying. The Romantica
advance described receptions in the gloomy hall, to the diffused light of electric lamps that
mimic torches, the crackling of the fireplace emblazoned with fake logs bristling with gas flames,
all the splendor of modern luxury ally with memories of an era of powerful nobles, the best, she
says, of history. Furthermore, the hunts, future hunting in an area of sandy and shifting, with pine forests,
nothing comparable to the rich soil of stay home, but who had the honor of being footsteps centuries
earlier by the Marquis of Brandenburg, founders of the ruling house of Prussia. And all this progress,
the rapid rise of the family, in just one year! ... They had to compete with other families overseas who
had amassed huge fortunes in the United States, Brazil or the Pacific coast. But these were Germans
'free birth', coarse plebeians who were struggling in vain to enter the great world by making
donations to the works Imperial. With all his millions, at the most they could hope for was to
join his daughters line infantry officers. While Karl! ... The relatives
of Karl! ... And the Romantica left glorifying pen run a family within
which he believed to be born.

From time to time, with other letters from Elena came short directed to Desnoyers. The brother
gave account of his operations, as well as when I lived in the room protected by it. But this
deference is linked to an ill-concealed pride, a desire to get back at their times of voluntary
humiliation. Everything he did was great and glorious. He had placed his millions in industrial
undertakings of modern Germany.

Shareholder was huge arms factories as peoples, navigation companies launched a ship every six
months. The Emperor was interested in these works, looking benevolently
to those who wanted help.

In addition, Karl was buying land. It seemed crazy at first sight to have sold the opulent fields
of their inheritance to buy sand Prussians produced only by dint of fertilizers. But being landed
contained in the "country party," the aristocratic and conservative group par excellence, and so
lived in two worlds apart and equally distinguished: that of the great industrial friends of the
Emperor, and that of the Junkers, gentlemen of the field, guardians of
tradition and official suppliers of the king of Prussia.

Desnoyers Upon learning of these developments, he thought of the pecuniary sacrifices they represented.
I knew Karl's past. One day in the room, the impulse of gratitude, the French had revealed
the cause of his journey to America. He was a former army officer in his country, but the desire
to live ostentatiously, with no other resources than the salary, dragged him to commit reprehensible
acts: theft of funds belonging to the regiment, sacred debts unpaid, forged signatures. These
crimes were not formally pursued consideration to the memory of his
father, but the companions of the body was subjected to a tribunal
of honor.

His brothers and friends advised him the gun as the only remedy, but he loved life, and fled to America,
where at the expense of humiliation had finally succeed. The wealth erases stains faster than last
time.

The news of his fortune across the ocean made his family received him well in the first trip, bringing it
back to "his world." No one could remember stories of hundreds of frames shameful for a man who
spoke of the land of his father-more extensive than many German principalities. Now, finally settling
in the country, everything was forgotten, but what his contributions imposed vanity ... Desnoyers guessed discharges
thousands of frames to hand over fist to the charity of the Empress, to imperialist propaganda,
for companies of veterans, for all groups of aggression and expansion made up of Germanic ambitions.
The French, sober, thrifty in expenditures and free of ambition, smiled at the greatness of his
brother. Karl had an excellent companion, but in a childish pride. He recalled with satisfaction
the years spent together in the field. I could not forget the German it hovered about loving
and submissive as a younger brother. When his family said in a somewhat envious vivacity the glories
of the relatives of Berlin, he said, smiling: "Leave them alone, it costs them money." But the enthusiasm that
the letters from Germany breathed finally created around his person a atmosphere of unrest and
rebellion. Chichi was the first in the attack. Why they were not going to Europe, like the others?
All her friends had been there. Family of Italian and Spanish shopkeepers started out, and
she, daughter of a Frenchman, had not seen Paris!

... Oh, Paris! Doctors attending to the ladies melancholy declared the existence of a new and
terrible disease, "the disease of Paris." Doña Luisa supported his daughter. Why had not she
live in Europe, as well as his sister, as he was richer? Until July expressed its grave in the Old World
look in greater use. America is land of sages. And the father eventually ask the same question, surprisingly,
not what had happened before the trip to Europe Thirty-four years without leaving the country that
was not theirs! ... It was time to go.

He lived too close to business. In vain I wanted to save his indifference retired rancher. All
money earned around him. In the club, in the theater, where he went, people talked about land purchases,
sales, business fast with the profit tripled, portentous Settlements. Beginning to weigh the
amounts kept idle in the banks. Would end up mixed in some speculation, as the player who can
not see the wheel without wearing his pocket. For this was not worth having left the room. His
family was right: "A Paris !...» Because Desnoyers group, go to Europe meant going to Paris. Could
"the aunt from Berlin" sing all kinds of great things from the land of her husband. "Macanas!
- Exclaimed Julio, who had made serious geographical and ethnic comparisons in their night raid
-. There is more than Paris."

Chichi saluted with a wry grin doubt about it: "Is that perhaps invent elegant fashions in Germany?
"Doña Luisa support their children. Paris! ... I never had thought of going to a land of Lutherans
to be protected by her sister. - Go to Paris! - Said the Frenchman,
as if he spoke of a strange city.

He had become accustomed to never again to believe it. During his early years in America he could
not this trip, having done military service. Then he had vague information from various amnesties.
In addition, ample time had elapsed for the prescription. But laziness of his will made him consider
a return to the country as something absurd and useless. Nothing kept across the sea Pulling him. He
had even lost all connection with those relatives of the field that hosted his mother. In the
hours of sadness, planned activity entertained raising a huge mausoleum, all in marble, in the
Recoleta, the cemetery of the rich in order to transfer the remains to the crypt of Madariaga
as founder of the dynasty, followed him, and then all theirs when the time comes. Began to feel the weight
of his age.

It was close to sixty, and the rough life of the countryside, horseback riding in the rain,
rivers forded on horseback swimmer, the nights spent in the open, had provided a bitter rheumatism their
best days. But the family eventually communicate your enthusiasm.
"A Paris !...» believed to be twenty years.

And forget the usual parsimony, wished his own journey as well as
a ruling family in luxury cabins with their own servitude.

Two Virgins coppery born in the room and elevated to the rank of lady's maid and her daughter
were followed in the voyage without slanting eyes reveal his astonishment at the major innovations. Once
in Paris, Desnoyers felt disoriented. Muddled the names of the streets and proposed visits to buildings
disappeared long before. All their efforts to boast a connoisseur were accompanied by failures.
His children, guided by recent reading, knew Paris better than he. It was considered a foreigner
in his homeland. At first, even felt a certain strangeness to make use of language. He had stayed
at the ranch for years without uttering a word in their language. I was thinking in Spanish, and
translate the ideas into the language of their ancestors, splashed with all sorts of French Creole
phrases. - Where a man makes his fortune and his family is, there is his real home - pithily said,
pointing to Madariaga. The image of the distant country he resurfaced in dominating obsessively
as soon as it cushioned the first impressions of the trip. He had no
French friends, and out into the street, his footsteps headed instinctively
to the meeting places of the Argentines.

For them it was the same. Had been away from home, to feel more strongly the desire to talk about it at
all hours. I read the newspapers there, said the rise in the fields, the importance of the next harvest,
the sale of steers. Returning to his house with him also the memory of the American land, thinking
with delight that the two would hit Chinese professional dignity French cook, preparing a pudding,
or a carbon to a Creole-style stew.

He had installed the family in an ostentatious house on the avenue Victor Hugo Twenty-eight thousand
francs rental. Dona Luisa had to come and go many times to get used to the imposing aspect
of the porters: the decorated, dressed in black and white whiskers like a notary comedy, she majestic
gold chain on his chest exuberant, and receiving tenants living in a red and gold. Upstairs in
the bedrooms, a luxury ultra-modern, cold and icy to the eye, with white walls and windows of small rectangles,
exasperated Desnoyers, who had enthusiasm for the complicated carvings and rich furniture of his youth.
The same went the settlement of many parts, which always seemed empty.

Chichi protested greed dad to buy him slowly, groping and hesitation. - Miser, no - he replied -.
It's that I know the price of things.

Objects only liked when he had acquired by the third of its value. The deception that smelt of them
was a testimony of superiority for the buying. Paris offered him a place of pleasure and could not
find the rest of the world: the Hotel Drouot. I was going to him every afternoon, if not found
in newspapers announcing significant other auctions. For several years there was no famous shipwreck
in Parisian life, resulting in debris clearance, which is not carried a part. The usefulness and
necessity of the acquisitions were of secondary interest, the important thing was to acquire
at bargain prices. And those rooms flooded auctions which initially
furnished with excruciating slowness. His daughter now complained that the
house was filled too. The furniture and decorative objects were rich, but
many ... So many!

The halls were taking a look antique store. The white walls seemed detached from the stalls and showcases
magnificent full. Shaven sumptuous carpets, on which they had walked several generations,
they covered all the floors. Curtains ostentatious, not finding an empty
space in the classroom, they were going to decorate next door to the
kitchen. Moldings vanished under a plywood walls of pictures closely
together like the scales of armor.

  Who could cross to Desnoyers of avarice? ... I spent
  much more than if a fashionable furniture
  maker was his supplier. The idea that everything
  acquired by a quarter of its price made him continue
  this waste of economic man. I could only sleep
  well when he imagined the day he made a good business.
  Bought at auction thousands of bottles from bankruptcy.

And he hardly drank, crammed into their caves, recommending to the
family that it used the champagne like ordinary wine.

The ruin
of a furrier him buy fur fourteen thousand francs, representing a
value of ninety thousand.

Desnoyers whole group seemed to feel bitterly cold early, as if the polar icebergs invade the
avenue Victor Hugo. The father was merely present with a fur coat, but ordered three for his
son. Chichi and Dona Luisa were present in all parts covered with thick coat silky and varied:
one day chinchillas, other blue fox, sable or sea lion. The same walls adorned with new batches of paintings,
hammering on top of a ladder, to save the expense of a worker.

I wanted to give to the children examples of economy. In his hours of inactivity changed heavier furniture
site, ocurriéndosele all sorts of combinations. It was reminiscent of his good time, while driving
in the stay sacks of wheat and bales of hides. His son, noting that a peering monumental sideboard,
was put in but wisely.

Desnoyers was some hesitation to his servants, incorrect characters, solemn, long tails, that did
not hide his surprise at seeing a man with more than one million rent delivered to such functions.
Finally, it was two coppery maids which helped the pattern, joining him with a familiarity of fellow
exile. Four luxury cars completed the family. The children would have been satisfied with just a small,
brand new, showcasing the fashion brand. But Desnoyers was not one to
waste good opportunities, and, one after another, had purchased the
four, tempted by the price.

They were enormous and majestic as the old carriages. Its entry into a street was turning his head
to passersby. The chauffeur needed two assistants to attend to this herd of mastodons. But
the owner was only memory of the skill with which he thought he had
deceived vendors, eager to lose sight of these monuments.

The children were recommended modesty and economy. - We are less rich
than you think. We have many goods, but produce little income.

And after refusing to domestic spending two hundred francs, employed five thousand in an unnecessary
purchase, only because he represented, he said, a great loss for the seller. Julio and his sister
protested to Dona Luisa. Chichi came to say that would never marry a man like his father. -
Shut up - shocked the Creole saying -. Is your temper, but is very good. Never has given me a reason
to complain. I hope that you find one like it. The quarrels of her husband, irritable character,
his overwhelming desire, lost all significance for her to think of their fidelity. In many
years of marriage ... Nothing! He had been an unshakeable virtue, even in the countryside, where people,
surrounded by beasts and enriched by their procreation, they seem to become contaminated by the
amorality of the herds.

She remembered that both his father! ... His own sister had to live under the vain Karl quiet,
capable of being unfaithful without any desire, just mimic the gestures of the powerful. Desnoyers
marched united to his wife for a loving routine. Dona Luisa, in its limited imagination, evoked the
memory of the yoke of the room, who refused to move when a strange
animal replacing the absent partner.

The husband gets angry easily, making it responsible for all misfortunes
that afflicted her children, but could not go anywhere without her.

Afternoons Hotel Drouot you were tasteless when he had his side to
this confident of their projects and their anger. - There are now
selling jewelry, will we?

His proposition was made soft and insinuating voice, a voice that Dona Luisa remembered the first
talks around the family home. And they marched in a different way. She in one of his monumental vehicles
because it does not like to walk, used to the quietism of the stay or to take the field on horseback.
Desnoyers, the man with four cars, the hated, being refractory to
the dangers of novelty, modesty, and because I need to walk, giving
his body a year to compensate the lack of work.

To join in the showroom, filled with crowds, examining the jewels, setting in advance what they
thought to offer. But he was soon to be exacerbated with the contradiction, going ever further, looking
at their dispute by releasing the figures just as if they would send fists. After these expeditions,
the lady showed majestic and dazzling as a Byzantine basilisa: ears and neck with large pearls,
diamond studded chest, hands needles radiating light with all colors of the rainbow. Chichi protested:
" too, Mom. "They were going to be confused with a will light. But the Creole, satisfied with its
splendor, which was the culmination of a humble life, attributed
to envy such complaints.

Her daughter was a girl and could not wear these beauties.

But later I would appreciate that had gathered for her. The house
was already insufficient to contain as many purchases.

In
the caves were piled furniture, paintings, statues, and curtains to decorate
many houses. Don Marcelo complained about the smallness of a flat twenty-eight
thousand francs, which could provide shelter to four families like
yours.

He began to think with regret the resignation of so many tempting sometimes, when a real estate
broker, of which peep abroad, roused him from this embarrassment.

Why not buy a castle? ... The whole family accepted the idea. A historic castle, historic as
could be found, would complete his great facility.

Chichi paled pride. Some of her friends had castle. Others, of old colonial family, accustomed to despise
for his peasant origin, rugirían with envy upon learning of this acquisition represents an almost
ennobling. The mother smiled in the hope of several months in the country to be reminded simple and
happy life of his youth. July was the least enthusiastic. The "old" would have him for long periods
outside Paris, but eventually settle, thinking that this would occasion to frequent car trips.
Desnoyers thought of the relatives in Berlin.

Why was not to be his castle, like the others? ... Chances were tempting. A dozen historic houses offered
him. Their owners were eager to part with them, overwhelmed by the cost of maintenance. And
he bought Castle Villeblanche-sur-Marne, built in times of wars of religion, a mixture of palace
and fortress, Italian Renaissance facade, dark towers and moats acute
water cap in the swimming swans.

He could not live without a piece of land on which to exercise its authority, fighting with the
resistance of men and things.

In addition, he tempted the vast proportions of the parts of the
castle, devoid of furniture.

An opportunity to install the surplus of their caves, giving to new purchases. In this atmosphere of
lordly gloom, the objects of the past amoldarían easily without the cry of protest that seemed
to release the contact with the white walls of modern ... The historic house called for large expenditures,
for something had changed ownership many times. But he and the earth were well-known ... At the same
time filling the rooms of the building, tried in the vast park crops and livestock holdings, such as a reduction
in American companies. The property was held with the intention of producing. It was not fear
of the costs: it was that he "was not accustomed to losing money." The acquisition of the castle gave
an honorable friendship, seeing in it the greatest business advantage.
  It reminded one of those thirty years in our Lord's life, in simple
secular toil, which could only minister to the needs of men over a carpenter's bench.

It is no small task to undertake to occupy all the leisure time of 25,000 men far from home,
shut up in irksome camps, easily aroused by rumor or superstition.  The numbers increased until
there were finally some 50,000 men to be cared for.  Athletic fields were secured and games
were started.  Football and hockey were more played by the Indians than by the British troops.
Badminton and volley ball, races and track events, were also useful.  Indoor games, the gramophone,
cinemas and concerts, and especially Indian dramas, were popular in the evening.  Lectures
on geography, history, and moral subjects were well attended, and French classes were of practical
benefit.

An incalculable service has also been rendered in writing letters for the great mass of ignorant
soldiers to their families in the far-off Indian villages, miles away from a railway.  Illiteracy,
superstition, and false rumors existed at both ends of the line.  Here is a man who has had
no word from home since he left a year or more ago.  He hears a baseless rumor or heeds some
inborn fear that his child is sick, or his wife unfaithful, or that he has been cheated out
of his property. Hundreds of homesick men whose whole lives have been bound up in the family
circle pour in upon the secretaries, begging that they will write letters home for them.  Here
you may see six or eight secretaries writing for hours each day, as fast as the men can dictate
their messages and tell their stories.

Then there arose the problem of how to keep these men in touch with their households in isolated
and illiterate villages in India.  Mr. Hume, one of the secretaries in Lahore, devised a far-reaching
plan whereby every letter was forwarded through missionaries or Christian workers or officials
to the distant home of the soldier.  The whole community gathers to hear the news from the
Indian regiment on the other side of the world, and a shout goes up from the village street
when they learn that their brave Sepoy is not dead, as rumor had whispered.  A message is sent
back in eager gratitude from the wife, children, and neighbors, and from the united heart of
the little village to the distant soldier and his fighting comrades.  The Red Triangle has
spanned the gulf from the winter cold and the dreary trenches in France to the little village
on the plains of sunny India, and the grateful hearts at both ends somehow dimly know that
all this silent ministry is in the name of the White Comrade who is the Friend of man.

Here in France the hut must stand as the friendly home that gathers up all the best traditions
of Indian life.  It takes the place of the banyan tree in the heat of the day, the village
well, and the meeting place for the men in the cool of the evening.  Even beyond all hopes
it has proved a potent factor for unity, harmony, and peace in a time of unrest.  It draws
the British officers and the Indian men closer together, and the Indian secretaries have served
time and again as the mediators between the two, who could so easily have misunderstood each
other.  It provides a common meeting place between the caste-ridden and divided Indians themselves,
who had no other ground of unity.

Here are men of different languages and races and traditions, from the Gurkhas, the brave little
hill men, to the stalwart Pathans, who come as fighting men from far beyond the borders of
India for the sheer joy of battle.  The chances for supposed loot in the fabled wealth of the
West and the accumulation of merit by slaying the "unbelievers" of the enemy, prove an added
attraction to men born and bred in border warfare.  Here also are men of three separate creeds,
who have often fought with one another over the issues of their faiths--the big bearded Sikhs,
with a soldier's religion, the warlike Mohammedans, who fight according to their Koran, and
the caste-ridden Hindus.

As you walk among the tents the smoke of the fires hangs heavy over the camp; there is the
familiar sound of the bubbling rice pots, the smell of pungent curry, the babel of many oriental
tongues, and you seem to be back in the very heart of India itself.  We gather with the reverent
Sikhs for their religious worship.  They meet morning and evening for their prayer service,
and turn out almost in a body for the weekly Sunday meeting.  The service consists principally
of singing and the reading of their sacred scripture, the Granth.  Seated on the ground, the
men show deep reverence, and seem to have a sense of the presence of God in their midst.  Their
religion has a real restraining influence and there is at present little immorality amongst them.

A little further on in the camp one comes upon an improvised Mohammedan mosque.  Five times
a day a devout soldier calls the faithful to prayer, and on Friday about three-fourths of them
come out to their voluntary service.  The Hindus, on the other hand, dependent upon ceremonial
rites, without their temple or priest and with no organized public worship, have not a religion
which holds them in such a vital grip in this distant land.

As you pass down the camp, the band is playing for the draft that is marching off to take its
place in the trenches.  The last good-bys are being said and little groups are round the secretaries.
The stalwart Sikhs are wringing their hands or kneeling down to wipe the dust from their shoes,
or thanking them with tears of gratitude.  They are great child-like men, simple of heart,
affectionate, but lonely and homesick in a distant land.  Here is a man who was once a hard
drinker, living an immoral life, but today he is keeping straight.  Here is another who has
resolved to go back to India to lead a different life.  There were tears in the eyes of the
secretaries themselves as they came back after bidding good-by to the draft, and there was
compensation after long months of service in the gratitude of the men and in that inner voice
which says, "I was a stranger and ye took me in."

After Callan had launched the work among the Indian troops, he was called upon to open up the
work at a large British base camp behind the lines in France.  Here, beside the vast drill
ground where Napoleon used to marshal his troops, is a white city of tents, and between 100,000
and 200,000 men are always encamped there for training.

Life in the trenches for the moment drives men to God, but the life in a base camp is one of
fierce and insidious temptation.  To hold the men in the face of such temptations, Callan has
erected his buildings in the thirty principal centers of this base.  Here is a typical hut
before us, built of plain pine boards, 120 feet long and 60 feet broad. It accommodates from
2,000 to 3,000 men a day and is used by three-fourths of the men in the camp, by practically
all, in fact, except those who are confined to their hospital beds.  These thirty huts will
be filled all winter with an average of 60,000 men a day. Each night at least 15,000 men will
be gathered in meetings, lectures, and healthy entertainments.  Twice each week there are 12,000
men in attendance at religious meetings, and not a week passes without hundreds of decisions
being made for the Christian life.  In the course of the year a million men will pass through
these camps, or one-sixth of the manhood of the nation now marshalled under arms.  These are
the men who are to be made or marred by life in the army, and who will go back to build the
new empire in the great era of reconstruction that is to follow the war.

To minister to these 60,000 men who daily crowd these thirty huts, there are 167 workers sent
over from England, 100 of them men and 67 of them women.  The latter are nearly all self-supporting
and not only receive no salary but pay all their own expenses.  The self-sacrificing toil of
these helpers, who form part of a vast army of 30,000 heroic women who are voluntarily serving
without compensation in the Associations of England and France, is beyond all praise.  Their
very presence in the camps is the greatest single moral factor for the creation of that indefinable
atmosphere which pervades every hut.  Even rude and coarse men never think of swearing or speaking
an indecent word within these walls.  Nor do they forget to be grateful for the tireless service
of these women, who stand for hours day and night serving them and providing for their physical
necessities.  The women workers are under the direction of Lady Rodney, who has had four sons
fighting at the front, one of whom has already fallen in action.  The men have been thrilled
and moved to the depths as Lady Rodney has addressed them on "What Are We Fighting For?" and
by her message to the men from the women at home.  Several hundred of the choicest women of
America will be needed for service among our own troops.  They should be women who can stand
for the whole principle of the red triangle. They must be ready for tireless and exhausting
physical service, able to work with others without friction, prepared to meet the social needs
of the men and to give a sympathetic hearing to the tales that will be poured into their ears,
but above all they must be able to give a definite Christian message to men fiercely tempted
and beset by doubts and difficulties.  The soldier cannot live by bread alone, nor by the tea
and coffee of a Y M C A counter; he needs God, and the friendship of good women, and the spirit
of home which they carry with them.

The hundred men who are working in these thirty British huts are worthy of note.  A score of
them are clergymen, who have resigned their churches for the period of the war.  Many others
are well-known ministers, laymen, or professors who have come over for a period of several
months of service.  The list of the men who have been serving here contains many distinguished
names.  There is Professor Burkett, the New Testament scholar of Cambridge, in charge of one
of the huts; Professor Bateson, the great biologist of Cambridge, who has been lecturing on
his subject, and who was swept off his feet by the response which he received from the troops.
He stated that he was able to learn more from these men than in months of research in his laboratory,
where he had been shut up for most of his life.  Professor Holland Rose, also of Cambridge,
has been lecturing to the troops on European history, interpreting the war to the soldier.
Professor Oman, of the same university, has been dealing in his lectures with the historical
problems of the war.  Rev. E. A. Burroughs, of Oxford, has been giving religious lectures.
Principal D. S. Cairns, of Aberdeen, has had crowded meetings night after night for his apologetic
lectures, and the questions raised in the open discussions would make one think he was in a
theological seminary.  Principal Kitchie, of Nottingham, has been lecturing on European history
and the Balkan situation. Bishop Knight is giving his time seven days a week to looking after
the spiritual and ecclesiastical needs of the men, as many seek confirmation and partake of
the Holy Communion before going up to the front.  Here are Scotch ministers, Anglican clergymen,
and laymen, working side by side in a great ministry of service.

A series of missionary lectures has helped to give the men a new world view of Christianity.
It has lifted the simple villager, and the man who has never known anything save the narrow
ruts of his own denomination, above the petty interests and divisions of his former life to
face world problems and the wide extension of the Kingdom of God.  Four lecturers have followed
each other to present a great world view to the men in these thirty huts: Butcher of New Guinea
showed the effect of the impact of the Gospel upon primitive native races; Farquhar of India
showed the power of Christianity over the great ethnic religions of India; Lord Wm. Gascoyne
Cecil came next on the transformation of China, and was followed by Dennis of Madagascar and
Dr. Datta, a living witness of the power of Christianity in the great Indian empire.  John
McNeill and Gipsy Smith, the well-known evangelists, have spoken to thousands and have brought
the challenge of the Christian Gospel to the men, calling upon them for decisions and a change
of life in harmony with the teachings of Christ.

Here are some of the finest spirits of England, some of its intellectual and spiritual leaders,
brought into daily contact with the manhood of the nation in this formative period and epoch-making
crisis. Before us hangs the program for the week.  It looks like the schedule of classes and
lectures for some great university.  It is drawn up in seven columns for the seven days of
the week, and includes a score of centers, with an average of three events for each hut per
day.  It would cover several closely printed pages.  Here are some of the events scheduled
for a single night:

Hut No. 1, lecture on "The Meaning of Christianity," by Mr. A. D. Mann; choir rehearsal; devotional
meeting.  No. 2, Rev. Butcher of New Guinea, lecture on "The Failure of Civilization"; French
class; Clean Talk League.  No. 3, lecture by Lord Wm. Cecil on China; French class; hobby class.
No. 4, cavalry band orchestra; Communion Service; evening prayers.  No. 5, Lena Ashwell Concert
Party from London.  No. 6, Rev. N. H. M. Aitken, Bible lecture and discussion; orchestral band.
No. 7, concert party; general hospital show.  No. 8, lecture on Napoleon by Mr. Perkins; Mrs.
Luard's concert party.  No. 9, concert given by the men of the auxiliary park camp; draughts
tournament.  No. 10, religious discussion class; Lord Wm. Cecil; service conducted by Chaplain
Berry. No. 11, Professor Thos. Welsh's Bible class; mid-week rally.  No. 12, fretwork and carpentry
class; games; letter writing.  No. 13, mid-week service; Bible class; letter writing.  No.
14, cinema show; indoor games.  No. 15, lantern lecture on "India in the Trenches."  No. 16,
ladies' concert party; Hindi and Urdu classes; letter writing; games. All of this covers only
the program for half of the huts on a single night!

Principal Fraser, of Ceylon and Uganda, but equally conversant with present-day problems in
Britain, has been conducting a weekly parliament in different camps on the great questions
of reconstruction after the war.  For here are men away from home, lifted above the toil and
narrow drudgery of their former cramped lives, and they have learned to think.

There is evidence of wide industrial and social unrest.  The men are conscious not only of
world wrongs which threaten their country from without, but of wrongs within as well, and they
are going to demand that these wrongs shall be righted.  A deep tide of feeling runs through
the audience, as these men, blunt of speech but clear of brain, openly and frankly discuss
the future, and they hang eagerly upon the words of Principal Fraser as he guides their thought
to higher ideals for the period of reconstruction that is to follow.

One night they are discussing the present social order, and what is wrong with it; they are
dealing with bad housing, employment, low wages, the cleavage between the rich and the poor,
industrial oppression, and social injustice.  The next night they consider the dangers of demobilization.
What will be the effect upon hundreds of thousands of women workers?  Here are more than five
million soldiers in the army, and a large number of men and women, boys and girls, working
on government orders.  What steps must be taken to minimize the dislocation of industry and
to prevent unemployment?  On the night following, they discuss the question of industrial reorganization.
They resolve that "the time has come, as the only means of averting social disaster, to grant
a constitution to the factory, and quite frankly to recognize and insist that the conditions
of employment are not matters to be settled by the employer alone, any more than by the workmen
alone, but in joint conference between them; and not even for each establishment alone, but
subject to the National Common Rules arrived at for the whole industry by the organized employers
and employed, in consultation with the representatives of the community as a whole."

At the next parliament they discuss the future of education in England. What should be its
aim, how far should it be technical, and how far should it aim at the development of personality?
Should the school-leaving age be raised to fifteen, or half-time education be given up to the
age of eighteen?  One night in the parliament they discuss the problem of drink and the war;
on another night, gambling; and on another, the social evil.  The men who attend the lectures
and parliaments of these camps will almost get a liberal education during the three years.

We have spoken of the vast work going on in the thirty huts conducted by 167 workers in this
single base camp.  Let us now pass into a typical center and observe the work a little more
in detail.  For our first illustration, let us take the Y M C A hut in the Convalescent Camp.
We select this because it is the model of the new huts for the American army which are now
being constructed.  It is a moving sight simply to step inside its doors.  Here are two parallel
structures of simple pine boards, each 120 by 30 feet.  They may be used separately, in eight
different departments, including the lecture hall which will seat 500, or with the partitions
raised they may be thrown into one large audience hall, holding 1,200 men.

A glance at the crowd within, or at the great city of white tents without, shows that even
this building is utterly inadequate for this convalescent camp holding 4,000 men.  It is a
center for a dozen surrounding hospitals, each containing from 1,000 to 4,000 patients. As
the men are cured in these hospitals they are sent up to the Convalescent Camp to be made fit
to return to the trenches.  It is worth remembering that every one of these 4,000 patients
is a wounded man, all of whom have seen service and suffering.

Let us enter first of all the large social hall.  Several hundred men are seated at the tables,
playing games or chatting over a cup of tea. At one end is the counter, where three women and
five men take their turn serving during the day and evening.  Two or three thousand of these
men will pour in every day this winter.  They will stand in a long queue filing by the counter
for more than two hours.  Here are large urns, each holding ten gallons of tea.  Cup after
cup is rapidly pushed across the counter without turning off the tap; as 160 men are served
in ten minutes, and there is no stop save to place a fresh urn full of tea.  As fast as the
workers can move, not only hot tea and coffee, but bread and biscuits, cake and chocolate,
tobacco, matches, candles, soap, bachelor buttons are furnished, and every other need of the
soldier is supplied.  The aim is to meet his every demand, so that he will not have to go into
the city to places of temptation and evil resorts.

While these men are being served or are seated in the social room, meetings and lectures are
conducted at the same time on the other side of the partition in the audience hall, which is
occupied several times a day, and is used for social purposes between the meetings.  We now
pass into the lounge, which is filled with men, busy at their games. Next is the Quiet Room,
where no talking or writing is allowed.  Men come into this room for quiet meetings or private
prayer, and here small group prayer meetings and Bible classes are held.

Just outside the hut is a wide wooden platform which accommodates several hundred men.  There
nearly a dozen different games are in full swing, all at the same time.  Each one is designed
to help the patient recover his health.  Here are badminton, tennis, volley ball, indoor baseball,
quoits, deck billiards, bagatelle, ping-pong, and other games.  The front of this platform
forms a grandstand for the cricket field beyond.

Here for three nights we conducted meetings, with five or six hundred men in attendance.  More
than a hundred men signed the decision cards each night, and when asked it was found that one-third
of them had made the decision for the first time, about one-third of them were back-sliders
who had been living as Christians before the war but who had gone down before temptation, while
the remaining third had been maintaining a consistent Christian life during the war.

In a second after-meeting in the Quiet Room one night, men from almost every quarter of the
globe spoke and gave testimony.  Here was one poor fellow who had come over after several years
in the States.  He had had delirium tremens three times, and showed the effects of it on his
face. He had formerly been the center of the foul talk and vulgar language of his tent.  He
had now come straight out for Christ and had boldly witnessed for Him before the men.  The
second boy, the son of a prominent officer in South Africa, arose under deep emotion.  He had
been living a wild and reckless life and was known as the "Red Light King."  After his conversion,
he went out and brought in another comrade who openly decided for Christ.  There were boys
from Canada, Australia, and England who followed, many of them with tragedies in their past lives.

It is impossible to calculate the vast influences for good that have been flowing from this
hut to the thousands of men who pass through it. The aim of the young Scotch minister who is
the leader has been to make it for all the men "a home away from home."  The life in the army,
with its irksome toil, daily drill, cold and wet and mud, the horror of battle and the pain
of wounds, is all for the moment forgotten as the men enter the place.

We tell the leader that we are taking this building as the model for our new American camps.
He says: "Large as this hut is, it is not large enough or good enough for the men.  Daily we
have need for better equipment.  This hut as it stands will serve from two thousand to three
thousand men in a day, but nothing is too good for these boys who are coming here to suffer
and die in this faraway land.  You will send your sons over from America to spend this cold
winter on the bleak plains of France in open bell tents.  They will be fed on canned goods
and corned beef, and they will be housed in the most unattractive towns of France, where there
is absolutely no interest or diversion apart from drink and women.  You can hardly realize
what it means to sit down in a homelike place, to get a hot cup of tea served on a white tablecloth.
This is the only home these boys will see in France, and they will either come here or go to
the red light resorts.  I wish I could tell the men of America what their boys will face here,
what they will suffer, what temptations will assail them.  The best equipment you can give
them is not good enough, for the people at home little realize to what a life their boys are
coming, and what hardships will face them here in France."

CHAPTER VI

THE CAMP OF THE PRODIGALS

We are in a natural amphitheater of the forest, near a big base hospital, about seventy miles
behind the lines in France.  Always in the stillness of the woods, even at this distance, one
can hear the intermittent boom of the big guns at the front, and the air is vibrant on this
summer evening.  Beyond the wood lies the old drill ground of Napoleon, which is used today
as a field for final training for the reenforcements for the front line.

In this wide open space in the woods at sundown the patients of the hospital in their blue
uniforms are gathering for the meeting.  It is a picturesque sight to see about eight hundred
of them seated on the grass, while an orchestra composed of their own men is playing before
the opening of the meeting.  Who are these men before us?  They are not the wounded who have
fallen on the field of honor, but the sick, and, quite frankly, they all have venereal disease.
The war has dragged this moral menace so into the light of day that the times of prudish silence
and of fatal ignorance should have passed for all who are truly concerned for the welfare of
the soldier and who want to know his actual conditions.  We shall, therefore, in this chapter
call a spade a spade.

The eight hundred men gathered here are a small part of some thousands of similar cases in
France.  The London Daily Mail of April 25th, 1917, referring to the report of the military
authorities to the House of Commons, stated that there had been some two hundred thousand cases
of venereal disease in the British Army in France alone.  This does not include England or
the men on the other fronts.  The British Army is not worse than others.  Professor Finger,
at a meeting of the Medical Society in Vienna early in the war, estimated that over 700,000,
or some ten per cent of the Austrian troops, had contracted venereal disease.  More ominous
still is the fact that in almost every place yet investigated the majority of the men were
confessedly living in immorality amid the temptations of the base camps in France.

As we visit the hospitals in France, we are saddened by the fact that for one of the two venereal
diseases no cure has yet been found, that a large proportion of these cases suffer a relapse,
and that over seventy per cent will develop complications.  As one Commanding Medical Officer
said, "There is enough venereal disease in these military camps now to curse Europe for three
generations to come."

One young major said: "Every day I am losing my boys.  I've lost more men through these forces
of immorality than through the enemy's shot and shell."  The recent report of the Royal Commission
shows the grave menace of the disease to Britain, where twenty per cent of the urban population
has been infected.  Flexner's terrible indictment in his "Prostitution in Europe" proves how
particularly dangerous and pernicious is the system of inspection and regulation which legalizes
and standardizes vice as a "necessary evil" and spreads disease through the false sense of
security which it vainly promises.  Even if the inspection and regulation of vice were physically
perfectly successful, it might still lead to national degeneration, but instead of being a
success it has proved, especially in France, a miserable failure.  We cannot place all the
blame upon local conditions, for the presence of an army in a foreign land in wartime creates
its own danger.

Among the men in the venereal hospitals of France are musicians, artists, teachers, educated
and refined boys from some of the best homes, and in another camp we find several hundred officers
and several members of the nobility.  What was the cause of their downfall?  A questionnaire
replied to by several hundred of them revealed the fact that six per cent attributed their
downfall to curiosity, ten per cent to ignorance, claiming that they had never been adequately
warned by the medical authorities, thirteen per cent to loss of home influences and lack of
leave, thirty-three per cent to drink and the loss of self-control due to intoxication, while
the largest number of all, or thirty-eight per cent, attributed it to uncontrolled passion
when they were unconverted or had no higher power in their lives to enable them to withstand
temptation.  But perhaps the chief cause of the spread of immorality is the unnatural conditions
under which the men are compelled to live in a foreign land in war time.

Donald Hankey, the brilliant young author of "A Student in Arms," who fell at the front, speaks
thus of the moral problem in the soldier's life:

"Let us be frank about this.  What a doctor might call the 'appetites' and a padre the 'lusts'
of the body, hold dominion over the average man, whether civilian or soldier, unless they are
counteracted by a stronger power.  The only men who are pure are those who are absorbed in
some pursuit, or possessed by a great love; be it the love of clean, wholesome life which is
religion, or the love of a noble man which is hero-worship, or the love of a true woman.  These
are the four powers which are stronger than 'the flesh'--the zest of a quest, religion, hero-worship,
and the love of a good woman.  If a man is not possessed by one of these he will be immoral.
. . .  Fifteen months ago I was a private quartered in a camp near A----. . . .  The tent was
damp, gloomy, and cold.  The Y M C A tent and the Canteen tent were crowded. One wandered off
to the town. . . .  And if a fellow ran up against 'a bit of skirt' he was generally just in
the mood to follow it wherever it might lead.  The moral of this is, double your subscriptions
to the Y M C A, Church huts, soldiers' clubs, or whatever organization you fancy!  You will
be helping to combat vice in the only sensible way."

We agree with Donald Hankey that the appetites hold dominion over the average man, whether
civilian or soldier.  We do not wish to make any sweeping generalizations or accusations. 
We have no means of knowing how many men are immoral in peace time, as we have in war time.
We only know that conditions of ordinary times are intensified, aggravated, and multiplied;
and they are revealed in war time as never before, and thrown upon the screen of the public
gaze.  The writer also desires to guard against any possible impression that the British army
is worse than our own or any other.  It is too early to know what record our men will make,
but we find it difficult to believe that they could have maintained a higher standard if placed
in equal numbers in the same circumstances.

But to return to our meeting.  Every one of these eight hundred men in this audience has a
history.  Tired or hardened or haggard faces are relaxed as they join in singing the hymns
on this Sunday evening, "Nearer, My God, to Thee," "Lead, Kindly Light," "Tell Me the Old,
Old Story," and "Where is my Wandering Boy Tonight?"  There is a tragedy in every heart, and
each man has experienced the bitterness of sin and bears its scars branded in his body.  Look
into the faces of some of these men.  Here in front, this very first one, is an American cowboy
from Texas, Frank B----.  As a "broncho-buster" he became the star rider in Buffalo Bill's
Wild West Show and was finally adopted as his son.  At the age of fifteen he started to go
wrong in New Orleans.  At an early age he joined the American army, and later, at the outbreak
of the war, he served in the Flying Corps of the British army.  Here he broke a leg and was
smashed up in action.  After that he joined an infantry division.  In one of the meetings this
week he accepted Christ.  He has since been standing firm and goes out tomorrow to begin a
new life.  Near him is a young theological student with a sad look on his face, who has learned
here in bitterness the deepest lesson of his life.  Next to him is a heartbroken married man
with a wife and children at home.

After the crowd has assembled, we speak to them of Christ as the Maker of Men.  We tell them
of the transformation of others like themselves, of Augustine, Francis of Assisi, Loyola and
the saints of old, of John B. Gough, Jerry McAuley, Hadley, and the men of Water Street whom
God raised out of the depths, and of men right in their midst who have come out for Christ
in the meetings this week.  After speaking for an hour, we go into the Y M C A for an after-meeting.

We had a wonderful time with them here one Saturday night.  Five hundred of them crowded the
hall and listened for an hour as we spoke on the good news of the free offer of life.  When
the invitation was given, over two hundred stayed to the after-meeting as desiring to follow
Christ.  After we had spoken one of the men came forward and asked if he could say a word.
He had been an earnest Christian before the war, and as he began to speak of his fall and of
his trusting wife and children at home, the poor fellow broke down in utter wretchedness. It
seemed to strike a responsive chord in the hearts of the married men all over the room.  Many
a one buried his head in his hands and wept bitterly.  A second after-meeting was held and
God seemed to be moving in the heart of every man present.  Man after man rose to tell of his
fall, or of his repentance, or of his new acceptance of Christ.  The feeling was deep but controlled.
It was one of the saddest and yet one of the gladdest meetings I have ever attended.  One minister
present said he had seen nothing like it all through the Welsh revival.

During their stay in this hospital great changes have taken place in many of these men.  Here
is Dan, a young chauffeur, a strong-willed, self-sufficient young fellow who thought he needed
no help and no religion.  He has a Christian wife at home to whom he has been untrue, for the
temptations of the war swept him off his feet like a flood.  In the meetings this week he turned
to Christ and has been working right and left bringing in others ever since.  Beside him is
a poor fellow whom he has just brought to the meetings.  He went on leave to England, only
to find his three children deserted by his wife, who had run away, untrue to him.  At last
he found her, and brought her home.  On his return to the army, he finds that now he has to
bear here in the hospital the vicarious result of her fall.  He came to me as a non-Christian
struggling with the problem of forgiveness.  Could he forgive her all this and his broken home?
At last in Christ he found the power to forgive and took up his heavy cross.  He knelt at the
altar of the little chapel and yielded up his life to God.  Tomorrow he leaves the hospital
to begin a new life.

Here is a young Australian who was untrue to his wife.  When we first saw him he was hardened
by sin.  That night he yielded to Christ.  The next Sunday we knelt beside him at the Lord's
Supper.  He was a new man; his very face was changed.  He said, "I have read of miracles in
the past, but there was never a greater miracle than the change which has taken place in my
heart and life.  I am a new man.  I can look any one in the face today!"

Beside him at that communion table knelt a young gunner, "Joe," of the Royal Field Artillery.
He was a strong, red-cheeked six-footer, winsome and good to look upon, the most popular man
in his battery. Away from home among bad companions he was swept off his feet and fell. He
has found Christ here among the prodigals in a far country.  Before leaving he came up to bid
us good-by, saying, "I'm going out to warn other men and to witness for Christ to the end of
my days."

Here is M----, a young sergeant, who came up after the meeting, with tears in his eyes.  "Sir,"
he said, "I was never drunk but once in my life, when my pals were home on leave, and that
once, under the influence of drink, I fell.  Here I am in the hospital, yet I am engaged to
a little girl at home who is as white as snow.  What is my duty in the matter?"  He has accepted
Christ and is a changed man.

Oh, it is a wonderful sight to see men transformed by this inward moral miracle, wrought by
the touch of the living God.  Here in the very center of this venereal camp stands the Y M
C A, endeavoring to meet their every need, and even here the red triangle shines with the hope
of a new manhood for body, mind, and spirit.  Every day at the hour of opening there is a scurry
of feet as the men rush in to the one center in the whole camp where they can congregate. 
Martin Harvey has just been here to cheer them up, and they were enthusiastic over a fine lecture
and recital last night on Chopin.  The Colonel in command takes particular pride in the Y M
C A for his men, and states that crime among them has been reduced ninety per cent since it
started.

But even greater than the privilege which the Association has in ministering to the fallen,
is its work of prevention in the other camps.  Just up the road is a swearing old major in
command of a unit which has always had the worst record for immorality and disease of any camp
on the plain.  He finally came in and demanded a Y M C A hut for his men.  A few weeks later
he came to the Association headquarters and said, in punctuated language which could not be
printed, "For a year and a half my camp has led all the rest as the worst in venereal disease,
with some twenty-five fresh cases every week.  The first week after the Y M C A was opened
we had only ten cases, the next week six, the third week only two, and it has not risen above
that since.  Your Association is the ---- best cure for this evil."

Nothing less than reaching the whole man can meet this gigantic problem.  You must take physical
precautions and build up a strong, clean, athletic body.  Better than all repressive rules
and regulations, you must provide healthy and happy occupation for the minds of the men.  But
beyond the reach of medical and military restrictions you have got to grip and strengthen their
spiritual and moral nature.  Otherwise, in the artificial and unnatural conditions consequent
upon a vast concentration of men in a foreign land, away from all home influences, and in the
poisonous atmosphere of a land of "regulated" immorality, where the government still regards
it as a "necessary evil," you must see your men fall in ranks before the machine guns of commercialized
vice, controlled by the vested interests, or fall a prey to the harpies who walk the streets.
In the face of all this we must lay bold claim to the whole of manhood for God and for the
high ends for which it was created.

The writer recently walked through a French street of licensed vice, where strong young fellows
were tossing away their birthright for a mess of pottage.  He passed on the main street of
the city two young Americans from a medical unit who were reeling along in the possession of
two harpies.  They were shouting to all the passers by, trying to hold up the carriages, and
widely advertising their uniform and their nation.  We recognize the difficulty of maintaining
a high moral standard in a foreign land in war time, but we believe it can be done. A plan
has recently been suggested by the Association for dealing with this menace.

First of all, it is proposed to conduct a campaign of education on the highest moral grounds
by a select group of lecturers, capable of presenting wisely the danger of immorality from
both the medical and moral standpoints.  This will involve the preparation of lectures, charts,
lantern slides, films, and everything needed for the effective presentation both to the ear
and eye.  It is hoped that these lecturers will be able to instruct chaplains, Y M C A secretaries,
and all who are responsible for the moral leadership of the troops, in order that they may
be better able to cope with the situation.  It is proposed that these lecturers conduct meetings
for three days in each center, with a parade lecture for each battalion and voluntary meetings
in the evening, which will include addresses on hygiene, lantern lectures, and moral talks.
Healthy literature will be prepared and distributed to the men, and similar campaigns will
be conducted in the camps in the United States and on shipboard before the troops reach France. 

Unquestionably, the English type lends itself much to the laughter in his excursions of all kinds, but
also must recognize that in this arrogant philosophy that distinguishes it even amid the deep alpine English
is not obvious, at bottom, another anything that two strong and beautiful feelings: the personality,
which is superimposed to the uses of others, and the country, that makes you have the illusion
of walking through a valley of the Alps is walking in park England or your favorite street. The
interesting procession of civilians came out of the main church (it
was Sunday) and going, quiet but in a good mood, towards a house where
they were going to celebrate a wedding.

More than three hundred civilians of both sexes marched ahead of us, in pairs or in small groups.
The men, usually more than medium height, slender and well muscled, were notable for their frank looking
blue eyes, their faces rough but simple, open and nice and slow and steady gait. They wore all narrow
breeches jacket of coarse cloth, the color of brown or brown, straw
hats, painted black, narrow wings and Drinking cups monumental style,
and wore spiked boots or thick wooden clogs it worked. Everyone in his
mouth a huge porcelain pipe with paintings, tied a yellow or black
cane a foot in length and slope of the lower lip without any hand
support.

As for women, their faces were more sweet and his clothes really funny. All had abundant blond hair the color
of gold, tied off the thread forming huge caps, or pending on the shoulders in thick braids
with large black ribbon ties. If the largest number of farmers' not wearing on his head but his
big black hood with wide lace point, many had crowns of huge artificial roses. They used all
bodice and skirt of black cloth or chestnut color, with sleeves,
chest and Indian muslin apron or white.

Also, all revealed his character and kindness of modest prosperity in their round meat, her rosy
cheeks, her candid and affable smile and his blue eyes full of sweetness. All this population of Grindelwald
has its fixed habitations in the valley, then to Despite its height and proximity of the nevedos
is protected against many storms. In the summer cultivate some fields, and other up to the
mountains to cut wood or caring for cattle and cheese making. In the winter go down to your district
and villages of the valley, and while the strongest are engaged in descending the mountains cut wood,
others withdraw into their homes to work embroidery and lace, wooden curio making, cutting and
polishing crystal , etc. The day was declining and needed to return to Interlaken: assemble again
our stroller and started the descent, giving a greeting of admiration
to the show wonderfully beautiful and varied than we had seen so delicious.

The sky was full of light and splendor and the morning breeze ruffled the waves and the mountains
we came loaded with the rich aromas that emanate from the pine forests, we climbed on board a
steamer funny, which soon began to cut like a swan brown beautiful waters Lake Brienz. More
than forty passengers we were on deck at the stern, and not a few were clustered toward the bow.
Some went directly to disembark in Brienz, at the upper end of the lake, others were to stop
at the little port Boenigen intermediary, those in more we pass to visit for a few hours, the
beautiful waterfall Giessbach.

On the right we could see distinctly the broad band of gray water
Lütschine, flocking on the left bank of the lake and a trail of ash
lying on the green carpet in a pasture. Later, the same side, we almost
touching the gorgeous little island of Boenigen or Schnecken-Insel
(island-of-the-snails), which resembles a miniature made by mermaids.

Lake Brienz, perfectly similar in color to that of Thun and produced by the same river Aare,
is the least significant among the first order, but the deepest of all of Switzerland. measuring
just about 15 kilometers long, N.-O. S.-E. to by 6 wide, and its depth reaches the prodigious extent
of 600 meters in places. The lake receives several rivers, of which the most curious is that outputs
to the waters of Faule-see (or Lake-rotted), located above the mountains,
torrent lost in underground cavities but does not reappear when thrown
into the lake of Brienz.

The mountains that determine the basin of this are much more rugged, wild and higher than the Lake
of Thun, and rise suddenly in great sliced thick walls seem to threaten to peak above the waves
subside. Sinembargo, in the long circumference of the basin are about ten or twelve villages, of which
the most notable are those of Brienz and Boenigen, with a total population of about 7,000 inhabitants:
some picturesquely perched on steep hills and at the foot of dense pine forests, and other resting
softly on the shores of the lake. As we approached the waterfall Giessbach the show we were surprised by his grace
imponderable.

There is nothing there that majesty and sublime cataract Tequendama,
capable, like others in Colombia, to deeply poet religious and an atheist
(if there can be any) just to show the colossal wonder of Creation.

No: the interest of the Giessbach, some of the best waterfalls in Switzerland, is in grace, caprice,
variety charming . In his presence one can love, talk, laugh and flirt, while in front of Tequendama
not allowed but watch in awe, admire and ponder the infinite. When they climbed the little port
of Giessbach, almost at the foot of the waterfall, all passengers we scattered by the various intersections
of the hill, thrill-seekers to be satisfied our curiosity. The mountain, covered with thick
forests, open in a slope that produces something of a valley, about 60 or more feet above the lake, with
its lower limit in the huge rock overlooking the river, and rising side by the thick interior
mountains to a considerable height well. At the end of that lean is preceded by an elegant beautiful
terraces, and in front of him rushing waterfall, giving rocketed among vegetable vast shadowy
alcoves hung with lichen and mosses. There, each traveler is placed successively on the balcony
or balconies of stone at intervals can look closely at the waterfall.

The torrent rushes from the top of the mountain through a narrow opening, resembling a huge jet to
be launched from a roof among encrusted stone balconies covered with garlands and draperies floating
vegetable severe. It is composed of a succession of cascading falls fourteen or cascades, of
proportions and different aspects, forming an immense staircase vortices
and rocks, on which waters are released in brilliant plumage, enormous
jets in spirals or iridescent crystal clouds of fine rain If the assembly
seen from the front, is charming, very delightful experience to be
placed under one of the most enormous rocks, where it turns a passage
practiced in the hollow of the rock, feeling a wrapped by the flood
that jumps over, forming a superb vault and foaming liquid which fits
neatly in the dual context of forests.

The contrast is very sensitive if you leave one of the waterfall to climb to the viewpoint
is on the edge of the mighty rock that stands on the banks of the lake. From there, his eyes covered
with a supremely beautiful landscape. On the right, at N.-O., is the upper valley of the Aar or Hasli,
turbid river input to the lake, and Brienz and some other peoples
to the left, the beautiful valley of Interlaken, and beyond Lake Thun,
in front, a huge fortress of rustic mountain majesty in the background,
the total length of the lake, quiet, asleep and alone, it seems as
indifferent to the anger of the flood of Giessbach that launches sparkling
streams , and whose quiet love misleading travelers marveled that
the shade of the pines provides the abyss of liquid emerald is at
his feet.

Add to all that the whistle of the locomotive of some steam over the lake, waking the echoes of
those breasts of granite and projecting between the sky and waves its white plume of smoke, and you
will have the full picture that stimulated our admiration. * * * * * Brienz is a small village of
about 1,800 residents, quite lively and curious, thanks to his considerable trade in excellent
cheeses, the manufacture of wooden sculptures and curiosities, its
old ruined castle, its renowned singers of national songs, and Muhlbach
neighboring waterfall measuring 360 meters high.

We stopped in Brienz hardly the time to snack and to pull a cart which was to take us down the
valley of the Aar in the direction of the canton of Unterwalden, through the neck Brünig. Arriving
at the foot of the mountain, the end of a bridge across the Aar, we alighted from the small trap:
the driver became muleteer and guides, left the carriage to the side of the turnpike road, saddled
the two robust and dull shot horses, mounted, and started to climb
the hill, enclosed by modest farmhouses and rows of walnut trees of
stature.

After an hour of slow and lazy for a rough stony path, we boarded a flying close to the side of
the hill encircled. All artificial vegetation had disappeared, and
walked to the huge landslides through the snows and rains occur at the
foot of patches of spruce damaged by the hurricanes.

Looking back we watched the romantic view of Lake Brienz, had the joker down valley Hasli (Meyring
delay in the center) crossed by the Aare and dominated by towering mountain walls perpendicular
to either side. It was interesting the contrast of objects composing the picture. The Aar
was very grown up and out of the womb, had gray waves inundated with many
portions of the valley, dragging broken huts and fences, lots of pieces
of wood, whole trees and some animals. The rest of the valley was
all happy and smiling , thanks to the various fields and villages,
hamlets and farmhouses scattered in every way. Up, to S.-E., highlighted
in the distance the magnificent landscape from which arises the Aar,
but close in the second term of perspective, swarms of pine-covered
mountains and in the foreground, dominating the valley, stood as an
artificial wall, huge, bare rock and melancholy inks where parallel
plunge from great heights, like ribbons of polished steel, Oltschibach
the beautiful waterfalls, and Falchernbach Wandelbach [20].

Thus, the overall picture was one of desolation, sadness and majesty and picturesque landscapes,
summarizing various kinds of poetry. [20] The termination means in German bach waterfall or
stream. For Moreover, the Hasli Valley, whose upper region Aar born and ends the territory of the canton
of Bern is one of the most famous of Switzerland. It has the peculiarity, according to the Chronicle
and the comments made, that all its population is composed of the remains of two pure breeds, originating
in the North under an immigration to 6,000 Swedish and 1,200 Ostfrisones which came to settle in
the valley the fifth century All this population, such beautiful and strong, professed the reformed
religion, while at the opposite side of the mountain that we Trasmonte the dominant Catholic religion
with the same exclusion. Perhaps among social phenomena there is none more curious and worthy of
attention than the geography of religions, so mysterious in appearance. In Switzerland, more than
any other country in Europe, far from the actual device of conventional religions, this phenomenon
can be observed within populations rustic and simple.

Indeed , we see that between two valleys separated by some high mountain,
or on a plain crossed by a creek on one side without competition reigns
Catholicism and Calvinism on the other.

And sinembargo topography, climate and productions are exactly the
same or similar, race and language around them, and differences in
institutions and customs insensitive.

What influence has been identified by the absolute religious discord? Evidently the action
or historical pressure governments. However you say to the contrary, it is governments that make
to the people, and that is why the responsibility of the former is infinitely greater than that
of seconds. Let the reader I disguise this moral digression (perhaps inappropriate since heart
of a mountain) and deign to join Brünig Trasmonte neck, leaving the magnificent
valley of Four-Cantons, to through a jungle filled with rumors, rich
and wild beauty, majesty and mystery.

The jungle was immense and her beauty only comparable to the poetry of
his loneliness. We walked without seeing a ray of sun, low arches
and pavilions endless dark greens colossal colonnade resting on fir,
covered with lichens and mosses. No extraneous noise mingled with the echoes
of the footsteps of our horses and to that vague rumor, without apparent
cause but eternal, which is the mysterious voice of the forests.

But from time to time felt the explosions caused by mines in the rocks drilled deep in the jungle
some men, opening a highway through the middle of the abyss.

Then silence reigned, when not interrupted at times melancholy, guttural singing of our guide, and,
walking meditation, we thought we were wandering in a world entirely wild
.... Error! beside us, above our heads, was also from tree to tree,
hiding under the branches, a companion, an invisible spirit, perhaps
we would say something to him but we could perceive its wonderful
language or read his mind.

Who was this mysterious fellow? It was just electric telegraph wire, wire, busy as we are a
fluid and a thought, natural and social soul, attesting to the presence of civilization at
the bottom of the lonely jungle .... Every people, as I that not
long ago, is revealed in how they take the great progress of civilization.

The refined France and England the positive spin their electric wire poles for very long series
of artificial, painted and filled with pieces of china or crystal fluid isolate and separate the
wires. In Switzerland do not take the pain of running those works; the Telegraph fit to all the
vagaries of topography, and the series of poles are the natural colonnades of pine forests, the most
luxurious rooms of the poetic Switzerland.

* entered * * * We had the territory of the canton de Unterwalden when Brünig descended from
the mountain, toward the beautiful valley of Lungern. The sun had hidden behind the gigantic
mass of rugged mountains that stretch from the group of Giswylerstock
to Mount Pilate. In some parts of the road, where the forest is cleared
up, looked out a piece of the lower horizon and we could perfectly
destinguir the configuration of the valleys and lakes from the foot
of Brünig basin are directed towards the capricious, irregular and
Grand Lake Lucerne or the Four-cantons.

Unterwalden The canton consists of two half-cantons cantons or twins, which rotate parallel to the
direction of S.-E. to N.-O., taking as a whole looks severe and funny
simultaneously, by the juxtaposition of mountains and buttresses that
sail in all directions and its numerous and smiling valleys, some
of which are small lakes fall more poetic aspect.

The twins in that country are very unequal proportions: thus the
underside of Nidwalden half canton (Valles-de-Down) barely covers
a quarter of the total territory, and has no exclusive lakes, although
it has banks in Four -Cantonese and Alpnach.

The chain of mountains divides Kernwald, but the brotherhood is maintained even in the names of
its major rivers, called both Aa [21]. The territory of the two half-cantons stretches from the magnificent
landscape of the Titlis, the E. to Mount Pilatus, the west, and from the heights of Bothorn,
south, to the left bank of Lake of the Four-Cantons, to the north, near the famous site Grütli;
based limits and the cantons of Uri, Bern, Lucerne and Schwyz, and measuring 48 kilometers at its greatest
length, 36 in its widest and 687 square kilometers of total area. [21] Celtic word meaning water,
and with the addition of an r (aar) means stream or river.

The half-canton we had more in sight and we were going to go in the most
notable was that of Obwalden (Valles-de-Up), which has its own capital.
From the top of the mountain we watch the narrow valley of the Aa
and very cheerful than in the bottom of which appeared, with the melancholy
serenity of the waters that do not reflect any ray of light, Lungern
lakes, Sarnen and Alpnach [22], links together by the film's funniest
Aa, and three plates of aluminum mixed in a magnificent imitation
enamel bracelet emerald.

Nothing is more peaceful and graceful in its kind that the valley of Lungern, surrounded by very
high mountains on three sides like a dead end, and whose glossy green patch
of grass and fall within beautifully bleak spruce forest crisscrossed
by some landslides.

The people of Lungern, which has little more than 1,400 people, is as widespread in the bottom of
the valley and at the foot of the gentle slopes that climb towards the mountain from one side, showing
all objects in the grace and candor its neighbors. Below is the lake, a mile long or a little more,
and some 250 meters wide, whose graceful basin formed by rocks and little lawn surrounded by farms.
[22] Alpnach Lake, which once was, no doubt, fully insulated, has degenerated into Gulf of Four-cantons.
At one time this small lake was more considerable, but Lungern neighbors who have no arable land
sufficient dissect wanted to devote her bed cultivation. From 1790 to 1836 he carried out from
time to time expensive jobs, and was able to practice on the rock
an underground tunnel 439 meters long which was to give an outlet
to the water.

But the gallery was produced at a sufficient depth, and although a considerable area of the basin
was free, greatly lowering the water level, could never take any part of the bed. The lake was
tiny and dilapidated, was spent in vain effort and money, and agriculture gained nothing. Walking
in the little lawn of Lungern, in the midst of graceful houses and
farms, we are attracted by a small lovely country setting worthy the
best artist's brush.

A modest church, surrounded by its graveyard, and some little garden of fruit trees on one side
a nice house of civilians, highlighting the rich carpet of grass and flowers, the other a crystalline
stream was on between fences to poles slide into a ramblita festoons cover to give a sawing
motion to table, and in the center in a square, a group of women and children with their original
costumes - such were the elements of funny picture.

Nothing is more simple, more common in appearance, and yet, as nothing more complete picture
of the nature of social and Switzerland. The main church door was open wide, because it was
approaching the hour of evening prayers, and could be seen from outside the profession of naively
picturesque ornaments which distinguish the Catholic churches in the rural districts [23]. The
cemetery had no walls but wooden fences in the form of rustic railings, which gave the appearance
of a garden. Inside, they saw numerous and humblest graves almost at ground level, in the midst
of which stood out black crosses countless crowned with garlands, and with black sheets of brass
that were seen in white or yellow the names of those who lay in the peace of immortality. Notable
was the abundance of Spanish names, so dear in German countries, such as Mary, Isabel, Luisa,
Mariana, Gertrude and Frances. In just a little space we have over 15 Marias, which showed
us the particular predilection for the poetic Virgin.

It is that religion has its gender as the souls that feed it. The cemetery was literally a garden:
admirably harmonious garden flowers, crosses and tombs. Where the flowers are better suited, if not
in cribs and burial grounds on altars and in lavatory chaste and virtuous woman lover? ... [23]
The population of Unterwalden is Catholic in its entirety to the
home game with the church, cemetery and the stream was completely
typical Vista façade had four floors above the ground, the bottom
two of equal width, and decreasing gradually to rise above, pursuant
to the triangular shape of the roof outside.

On each floor were seen wide glass windows composed of tiny frames tied wood, without open field
and forming a curious symmetry, and the floor of the house, to the sides of the door, stood strong
honeysuckle plants that climb to the upper floors, the facade forming
floating intertwined flowery curtains on the window frames.

The house rested on a foundation of small stones to the ground on
the first floor, and then up the whole building was composed of graceful
fir tables and neatly joined.

Around garlands everything was floating, upright trees and carpets of grass dotted wildflowers. As
for the farmers' group awaiting the touch of prayers, dressed in
colorful original and enhanced the grace and simplicity of their innocent
faces.

What most attracted our attention was the unique headdress of ribbons beautiful half black caps covered
with lace, ribbons and braids with white ribbons pinned with huge gold and silver plates imitating
fins and scales, ornament that is not dissimilar to that Then we saw in the headdress of the countrywomen
of Holland, especially on the side of Rotterdam. Did I say that these details have no interest?
It is quite possible, and we sinembargo scene deeply engraved in
memory.

There was so much candor, both natural and poetry in this church open and full of colorful ornaments
- this garden cemetery, defended more by pity than by its common covered with garlands lowly nearby
- that house, chalet, all transparent (with more windows than walls) and wrapped in a blanket of flowers
and vegetables - and this group of women single, original type, waiting for a campaign go to church
to pray! The scene itself was a complete revelation of beliefs, customs, habits, race and
the virtues of this modest population countryside. * * * * * It was five in the morning when we
were starting from Lungern the next day, in a lightweight stroller, bordering the valleys of Lungern
forth, Sachseln and Sarnen. The tour through the village to Sachseln is really
lovely. The site (which is barely 1,500 inhabitants) is literally
hidden at the foot of a magnificent mountain, a vast and gorgeous
forest of fruit trees, full of perfumes and carpeted with hay and
flowers of many colors.

Groups of apple, pear and plum alternate with cherry, walnut and other trees in the most graceful
confusion.
  Yet they also have
an inarticulate belief or intuition that they have tried, however brokenly or unsuccessfully,
to live up to such light as they had or to some standard of their own.  They feel that somehow,
though they have often failed, at bottom they are not so very bad, and that God is very, very
good.  Their vague feeling would probably find its most accurate expression in Faber's hymn,
"There's a wideness in God's mercy, like the wideness of the sea."

They revere God from afar off and in one compartment of their being, but they have never opened
their lives to Him.  They have a reverence for Him in the face of death, in the hour of need,
and in the great crises of life.  Most of them like to sing the Christian hymns on Sunday evening
and have thoughts of home and of loved ones that are sacred.  They do not feel that they have
come into close personal relations with God, but neither do they consciously feel that they
are out of relation with Him. They do not think they are altogether right with Him, but neither
do they feel in the bottom of their hearts that they are wholly wrong with Him. The vast majority
of them in the hour of death do not feel that they have either consciously accepted or rejected
Him.  They have not loved darkness rather than light, nor have they wholly chosen the light
and rejected the darkness.

It will depend upon the individual how he classifies these men.  Some will believe that the
great love of the Good Shepherd, who laid down His life for the sheep, will somehow in the
end not be thwarted in His seeking to save the lost.  Not only will men differ in their judgment,
but it is exceedingly difficult to pass judgment upon an individual soldier.  He seems to be
a different man under different circumstances. In the temptations at the base camp, he would
perhaps appear to be utterly irreligious and profane.  He can hardly be recognized as the same
man as he prays in the hour of battle, or as he lies wounded, chastened, and sobered, in the
hospital.  Which situation reveals the true man?

Before us as we write lies the photograph of a young sergeant.  Before the war he was an atheist,
an illegitimate child, a member of the criminal class.  But in the trenches he found God. 
Blown up by a mine, for sixteen days he lost the power of speech and of memory.  He returned
from the front with a deep sense of God, but with no personal, vital relationship to Christ.
He eagerly welcomed the first real message that went straight to his heart, and the personal
word of loving sympathy which led him to relate his deep experience of the trenches to the
presence of the living Christ.  All this man needed was someone to interpret to him his own
experience, and bring him into the relationship with God which his own heart craved and longed for.

Beside this photograph is the card of a strong-willed, self-righteous young Pharisee, who had
no use for religion in peace time, but who was driven to God by his awful conflict with sin
in this war.  Next comes the card of a young man who formerly had lived a proper conventional
life without bad habits.  The war taught him to drink and he finally became a drunkard, but
in his extremity he found Christ as a personal Saviour. Next comes the card of a man who had
been in a public house for thirty-two years--twenty-seven years as a bar tender and five years
as a saloon keeper.  He said, "I have sent men to hell with drink.  I have seen women who would
sell the clothes off the backs of their children or pawn their husband's clothing to get drink."
Yet this man has been brought to God during the war.  Many a man has found God on the field
of battle, or like the thief has turned to him in the hour of death.[2]

One young soldier thus describes his experience which is typical of many another: There had
been a charge, a hopeless affair from the start.  He lay in the long grass between the lines,
unable to move, and with an unceasing throbbing pain in his left leg and arm.  A whizz-bang
had caught him in both places.  He just lay there, feeling strangely peaceful.  Above him he
could see the stars.  All this bloodshed--what was the good of it?  He suddenly felt terribly
small and lonely, and he was so very, very weak.  "God!" he whispered softly.  "God everywhere!"
Then into his tired brain came a new phrase--"Underneath are the everlasting arms."  He sighed
contentedly, as a tired child.  They fetched him in at last.  He will never again be sound
of limb; but there is in his memory and in his heart that which may make him a staunch fighter
in other fields.  He has learned a new way of prayer, and the courage that is born of faith
well-founded.

The idea has been widely preached by many British chaplains that death in battle saves.  This
may be good Mohammedanism, but it is surely not the Christian message that is given to Christ's
ministers to preach. But such a passage cannot be taken out of its context either in Christ's
teaching or in the man's own life.  Our Lord had said that we were to love even as He loved,
that is, out of a pure and surrendered heart to lay down our life for our friends; and He added,
"Ye are my friends if ye do the things which I command you."  It is going far beyond the province
of the Christian minister to offer any hope other than that which is offered by our Lord Himself.
It is not death or a bullet or battle that saves. Christ only saves, and there is no other
name given under heaven.  This offer is made to all men and at all times.

But although one may not preach so dangerous and misleading a doctrine, it is nevertheless
possible to realize that many a man is unconsciously more of a Christian than he knows, and
that in the last day he may say with surprise: "When saw I Thee an hungered and fed Thee?"

We may turn to "A Student in Arms" for his interpretation of the feeling of the common soldier
in this crisis:

"Then at last we 'got out.'  We were confronted with dearth, danger, and death. . . .  They,
who had formerly been our despair, were now our glory.  Their spirits effervesced.  Their wit
sparkled.  Hunger and thirst could not depress them.  Rain could not damp them.  Cold could
not chill them.  Every hardship became a joke. . . .  Never was such a triumph of spirit over
matter. . . .  If it was another fellow that was hit, it was an occasion for tenderness and
grief.  But if one of them was hit, O Death, where is thy sting?  O Grave, where is thy victory?
. . . Life?  They did not value life!  They had never been able to make much of a fist of it.
But if they lived amiss they died gloriously, with a smile for the pain and the dread of it.
What else had they been born for?  It was their chance.  With a gay heart they gave their greatest
gift, and with a smile to think that after all they had anything to give which was of value.
One by one Death challenged them.  One by one they smiled in his grim visage, and refused to
be dismayed.  They had been lost, but they had found the path that led them home; and when
at last they laid their lives at the feet of the Good Shepherd, what could they do but smile?"

It has been well said that there is much natural religion in the trenches, but that much of
this religion is not Christian.  What is the attitude of the men to Christ Himself?  Most of
them associate Him with all that is highest and noblest in life.  They link Him with God in
their thought, and with themselves in their time of deepest need.  Although His name with that
of God is sometimes taken on their lips in profanity, there is often a deep reverence for Him.
Thousands have seen the cross of Christ standing among the ruins in the villages of Belgium
and Northern France, when all about seems to be battered and wrecked.  The old skeptical theories
and captious criticisms of pre-war days are little heard during this awful time.  Generally
speaking, the facts of the gospel narrative are not disputed.  They believe in Christ as the
revelation of God.  They have no difficulty with the doctrine of the divinity of Christ and
do not doubt that He is a living reality and has power to save.  Their only difficulty is with
their own sin.  They do not know how to break from it or are unwilling to give it up.

The great need of the hour is for interpretation.  On the one hand, men have had in their hours
of great need a deep experience of God which they do not understand; yet on the other hand,
they are gripped by the power of temptation which alone they cannot overcome.  They admire
the virtues of courage, generosity, and purity, but for the most part they see no connection
between these and the presentation of Christ in the lives and words of those about them who
profess to be Christians.  What is needed is personally to relate the man to the God and Father
of Jesus Christ, with Whom he has been brought face to face at the battle front.  There is
urgent and imperative need of the giving of that message, both in public presentation and in
the channels of personal friendship.

One chaplain says of the men: "I am sure the soldier has got religion: I am sure he has got
Christianity; but he does not know he has got Christianity.  I am convinced that of the hundreds
of men who go into action the majority come out affected towards good rather than coarsened.
They come out realizing that there are times when they cannot get on without God; they are
not frightened of Him, they flee to Him with their simple cries for strength."

While another, a student who laid down his life at the front, makes this valuable suggestion
as to the presentation of Christ: "When I was talking to them at these services, I always used
to try to make them feel that Christ was the fulfilment of all the best things that they admired,
that He was their natural hero. These cells are completely dark and lack ventilation. Behind the building
are surrounded by high and solid walls to the courtyard where the prisoners out, one by one
and in turn, to rest and enjoy the sun, fresh air and some exercise.

[8]
When I was there were 80 inmates, a number that is regular, and 30
inmates only.

Each
detainee is working in his cell, bound to a fixed minimum task, and constantly watched. Often, when
the behavior of some detainees is very good and necessary to associate
two or three working together in a cell, subject always to sleep apart.

The cells are quite light and air are pure iron windows high and very
strong. Each detainee has, in addition to the materials and work tools,
your bed, a chair and some essential furniture that let you eat,
sleep, etc.., In absolute isolation.

Each cell door has practiced a simple little device that can monitor the prisoner without his noticing
it. The director and three subordinate employees sufficient to timely and rigorous administration
of the establishment. The detainees are engaged in the manufacture of shoes, mats and other simple
objects of popular consumption, and the products are intended to cover the costs of establishing
and training a pool of savings for each detainee, according to the value of their work. The preaching
and religious instruction is given to inmates is austere, intelligent and affable. If the confinement
in the jail, the temporary deprivation of food, the walk in the yard, etc.. coercision are means of
repression or additional inmate also has powerful incentives to meditate on their crimes, repent
and moralize. If good behavior, giving evidence of repentance, you get greater participation in
the fruits of their work permit to work in company one or two more,
but always in silence, and a reduction of penalty that can reach half
of their legal duration.

Recurrences noticed that they are rare among adult males, and somewhat
common among women and pubescent or prepubescent safe occupation when
they get to leave prison. For the rest, in establishing order reigns,
silence, cleanliness and the economy.

The director and one of the guards I expressed the deep conviction of the effectiveness of
the system in every way, while acknowledging, as other people, the need for the cellular system
has its complement in a social institution to offer instruction and work permits for some time
the prisoner freed, in order that, effectively being smooth the transition of imprisonment and forced
labor, freedom to work free but insecure, is conjure the dangers
of recidivism.

There will come a day, no doubt, that civilized societies recognize that the rich correction of
the culprit and the supreme duty of justice require the close correlation of three institutions:
the place of punishment, school, and shop or something similar; and social power has full authority
to punish, but to instruct and moralize condition of the guilty, and open once regretted the infinite
via any rehabilitation: the work and personal independence. The Prison House has shapes and
different conditions, however the system community. The building has the external shape of half
wagon wheel spokes and three horizontal. In the center is the facade, which gives about a three-story
lobby corresponding to the interior. The inner and lower lobby is semicircular, and parallel to the large
semicircle described by two equally high embankments parallel to each other that, separated
by an alley, contain all the strength. From the center to the circumference
extending like spokes of equal length and two buildings oblong and other
intermediate building crowned by a dome, separated by four walls that enclose
patios.

All boundary walls and are sheltered from the outside looks and dominated by the dome and some windows
to monitor the situation. The office of the director and his assistant is inside the peristyle,
and in the center of the start of the spokes are the gaps that allow inmates to observe and communicate
orders through the walls without being seen. Of the three floors of these radios the bottom contains the
workshops, and two bedroom upper cells of the prisoners, while in the
middle there are premises for the service employees.

Under the study, the level of the courts, are the parlor for visits to the prisoners, office
and other pieces of kitchenware. The entire building, it seems complicated, but actually very simple,
cost just $ 30,000 and only requires an annual expenditure of 5,000, at most, a deficit that leaves the
product in respect of expenditure, the work of prisoners. It can hold 56 inmates, judging by
the number of cells, but it has never been filled and usually has only about 46. Of this number
he had when I visited the prison, 12 were repeat offenders: only 7 belonged
to the canton of Geneva (where there is freedom, instruction and
industrial activity) and the majority of inmates consisted of Savoyards,
belonging to a population too poor, ignorant, without industry, commerce
or communications, sandwiched between the Alps and customs lines.

The large number of prisoners represented the crimes of theft and robbery, crimes that in the generality
of cases, do not indicate perversion, but misery and lack of instruction and work. The number of Protestant
and Roman Catholic Canton balances in prison, although the vast majority are all Catholics. Each
defendant sleeping in his cell in solitary confinement.

The cells are small but adequate, very clean and airy, lit by natural light and equipped with
the necessary furniture modest. Inmates working and taking common food in keeping silence, and divided
into sections according to their criminality. Eat three meals per day, abundant, simple, healthy,
and after each turn out to spend half an hour outdoors in one of the patios. Only one case
of evasion has happened so far, and that the negligence of a watchman.
Jamas inmate has lost any reason nor attack the guards. The total confinement
without work or light, and temporary food deprivation or bed to sleep, are
the means of coercion or repression. The prisoners' work is to manufacture
shoes and mats or a pillar grains. Each of the joint workshops is
monitored internally by a guard who wins, besides the food and accommodation,
three francs a day.

The director, an assistant or secretary, and these guards are the only active employees of the
establishment, and serve him very well. Chaplains attend Sunday church services to make moral and
subject to its competition accidental. When an inmate is worthy of consideration, is allowed to
receive from time to time the short visit for some debt.

This is verified in a phone booth at through a fine wire screen that allows the conversation and
the exchange of glances, under the supervision of the warden, but which prevents
all contact and communication cards, money, weapons.

They take books that are carefully recorded all the facts of the domestic economy and comments on
statistics and morals of the inmates. According to these documents, if the conduct of a defendant
is blameless get a less rigorous treatment and a reduction of sentence, which reaches to the
middle. These discounts are common. As the product of labor, the system is analogous to the House
of Detention, but part is intended to assist, if they are poor, to the children, parents, or
spouse of the inmate. The prison serves only for those convicted for
crimes or serious offenses, to more than one year of confinement
cell.

The maximum duration of 20 years, applied only in cases of repeated serious crimes. What most caught
my attention in the Prison was the chapel, place of extreme simplicity, unadorned and provided
no seats in the amphitheater. There the prisoners are divided into sections according to their
criminality. At the bottom, near the modest chair of the chaplain, is a small altar reduced to one Christ,
the image of the Virgin and glasses and other necessities for the
Roman worship.

This altar
is provided with a thick, dark curtains. When inmates are Roman Catholic chapel, the altar is
naked and runs the priest concerned.

When his turn assist the Protestants, the altar is covered and is not in sight but the Bible on the
table. Thus, the same pulpit and serve the local priest and pastor. Never in my life had found
a social spectacle as sublime as that of the humble chapel, also dedicated to the service of two religious
communions which have bloodied the soil with their struggles impious. What profound teaching
of spiritualism in religion, of noble simplicity in worship, brotherhood and tolerance, universality
in the religious idea, - without stopping to think about the differences in symbols and forms, - of
true Christianity, in order ! Teaching hidden in the depths of a prison, - a symbol of the
equal duty to conscience and justice - guilty to instill the notion of brotherhood in God and
man, the equal right of all, as violation is precisely what is called fault, offense or crime! On leaving Geneva,
was not only an impression of deep respect for this small country
of philosophers, artists and free and industrious, but also a kind
of comfort and confidence in the future of mankind.

What great examples and inspirations towering European civilization
owes to this tiny village, used to make watches and exercising free
inquiry, his genius seems to have severe regularity of independent
chronometer and the expansion of the organizations free!

There
have been born, to the glory of letters and sciences of every kind, patient and bold, naturalistic
and Candolle Saussure, as Burlamaqui jurists, historians such as Sismondi and Mallet, economists such
as John B. Say and Sismondi himself, men of State and Necker, writers such as Madame Necker,
and Cherbuliez Töpffer; distinguished artists, thinkers, philosophers like Rousseau immortal! A huge
open carriage, divided into three compartments and containing about 23 people, besides baggage, was to
lead us towards the valley of the Arve Chamonix, at the foot of the colossal group of mountains
in the center of which holds the impressive dome of Mont Blanc. The English, as in all sites, vehicles
and excursion lines, were in the majority, represented mainly by
a half-dozen young robust ladies, blonde, dressed in pink and capriciously.
sovereignly always annoyed the thick fog, even life and geographical
isolation of their opulent island, English is eminently cosmopolitan,
for hygienic reasons, by temperament and tradition, and curiosity,
often childish.

Even in the last corner of the world and on the highest peaks is found, - imperious, demanding,
intractable, if not required of others, laconic, cold, full of walking sticks, umbrellas and a thousand
appliances, impassive when the others stir, shaved and perfumed in order even at the bottom of the
cliffs, and coolers, and wearing his singular dress in one color and one court, which by dint of uniform
plays in extravagance. Fino, gentlemanly, hospitable and served on his island (at home), English
is hard in a foreign country, sometimes half-savage, for pride of race and nationality gives him the
sense that he carries everywhere with him his country, ie its individual right, your name and
your bag. Hence his total lack of elasticity and tolerance to accommodate in a foreign country
to the uses of other peoples and to the needs of the circumstances.

It is certainly curious phenomenon of moral transformation that occurs in English, traveler so
attached to the idea of the homeland, and yet so addicted to his travels away from the homeland.
The French, on the contrary, a man of spirit rather than belief, rather than indefinite expansion
of habits, socialist par excellence, leaving the country across the border of France and is
an adoptive, temporary and ad hoc wherever you are presented with half of sociability, a circle
of ideas. In this way, is treated with admirable ease all living conditions, and agree with
the best mood all possible situations, both in the Champs Elysees of Paris in the bottom of a South
American jungle, a desert or Africa. That's why, when traveling in Europe between the English
and French, is always at the first silent, elusive, retreating into his personality rigorous,
while others enter the course in the wide lane and multiple unencumbered
conversation, reaching easily to the joviality.

These observations, which have nothing personal to be new or original sinembargo and have confirmed
all my trips, I certainly came to mind to follow, as the measure of Geneva, the road that leads to
Chamonix.

The conversation was so lively between us and two or three French francs and some of the same race,
as remarkable contemplative silence of the British. Llamónos attention particularly a pastor
or minister of the canton of Vaud, traveling very modestly with his
daughter - a smart and funny girl of sixteen years, - with the intention
of making fruitful hiking.

He was a man of fine manners, full of modesty and distinction in behavior, simple, tolerant and philosopher,
heavily soaked in the feeling of fraternity and Christian charity, a friend of good conversation and discussion,
attentive observer enthusiastically by all natural beauty, general and solid instruction and
particularly addicted to the geology, physics, botany and natural history.
His daughter, as educated as kind, so innocent and intelligent, always
accompanied him in his travels. On foot, armed with sticks and a modest
travel outfit, had traveled together the most interesting parts of central
Switzerland, scaling the heights of the Jura, Bernese Oberland refrigerators,
etc., Collecting curious plants and making careful observations.

They had the intention to go in the fridge part of Mont Blanc and visit all the natural sights
of Chamonix. Rarely have I traveled with a companion as instructive as the worthy pastor vaudense, which
I found one of the most beautiful types of the modern priesthood. Twelve hours of care and drive
mortals must endure to make the journey of 90 miles to Chamonix, thick clouds dust and under the rays
of a sun that seemed tropical. Otherwise it is possible to admire the beauty of the many varied
landscapes offer the track. She is of little interest to Bonneville, which was capital of the former
province of Faucigny, with 1,500 inhabitants.

It is there, near the mountains of mole and a beautiful bridge crossing the
Arve to trace their margin left to Cluses, the traveler begins to look
closely at the beauties of the Alps. The river runs along the bottom of a
deep basin formed by high buttresses or rugged mountain-ranges on a stony bed,
leading in their revolts waves a thick solution of granite and limestone
sands that give your gray ink.

Sometimes the basin is widens in vast folds and severe Curb, and the valley appears full of
undulations and small hills, where vineyards clean bright sun, beautiful corn and green beans,
or thick carpets spread in some small meadows that they will lose at the foot of stratified limestone
cliffs, or the rigid and vertical granite rocks that appear to threaten the traveler from the top of his
formidable bastions. Elsewhere, the valley becomes narrower: the road turns on the edge of a slope or cliff
that dominates the airwaves the river, this jumps up, sparkling dislocated
and twisted on his bed stirred hailstorms, the hills rise on either
side as colossal walls, offering the most romantic forms in the high
caves, its rugged relief, its huge vertical cracks; its collapse,
and severe unequal peaks, their Cascadilla that are released to the
valley in thin threads to become Argentina dust often, its harsh and
sad bushes floating near the wind and hardly adhere to the interstices
of the rocks, and overlapping stripes sombío green - upright fir wreaths
respect the snows in the mountains of the Alps, leaving their eternal
glory.

And in the middle and top of that, it opens a glorious sky, And far to the east, is hard to
see, on a colossal swarm of ice-capped granite, the dome of Mont Blanc, dignified stronghold of
two great nations - Italy and France, - sovereign of that world of
magnificent horrors they call the Alps!

Across the valley of the Arve abundant wildlife sites, natural curiosities and charming views. As
society is there very little interesting, nature, full of strength and majesty, is the first actor.
Poor, without such well-defined race, although traditionally brave, the Savoyards of this valley have
some sympathy for compassionate, although their locations call the attention of travelers. Simple
people, resigned to the rigors of its climate and lovers of the mountains, living without admiring
the beauty of your floor, speak very bad French and not think about world politics. Sigh, before annexation
to France for a positioned to improve economic conditions. Throughout the route, Bonneville
and Sallanches are the only locations of some importance. In San-Martin, a poor but charming
village Sallanches Valley, we leave the coach to take a four-seat stroller, and soon, accompanied
by the esteemed pastor Protestant, began to move away from the banks of the Arve, followed by
his right side and climb the slope to slope Heder. From the top corners
saw the immense abyss at the bottom of the river plunges, angry and
wild, waking with the noise of a thousand waterfalls echoes of the mountains.
The path turns, then at the height of Servoz, through labyrinths
of broken rocks and ancient forests and thick pine and fir, where
these rocks lie scattered erratic that have been one of the mysteries
of geology - the amazing power revelations of refrigerators traveling
on the slopes of the hills.

At the bottom of the Arve Forest rages, raging torrent there, and wherever the majesty queen of the wild.
After all, the forest ends, the field is leveled, the Arve has a less stormy course, the mountains open
up a little, and the Chamonix valley, carpeted with flowers, ferns
and Gramal, and full of crops and livestock; seductive develops, dominated
on one side and the other by great granite cliffs or hills, high forests
of fir and pine trees and sea ice with the sad solemnity of the desolation.

The Chamonix valley, situated about 1,000 meters elevation above sea level, measuring a length of 20
to 25 miles from the S.-O. N.-E., and a width of 1,500 to 2,000
meters.

Súrcalo in all its extension the Arve River, which, being born in the freezing
heights of the neck of Balme, is growing strongly with water throwing
the immediate valley is dominated refrigerators.

Enclosed between steep mountains and stunning, the valley offers the rarest of joy contrasts
sharply smiling and wild, of rustic tranquility and of grandeur in the shapes and desolation in some
objects. To the west, the refrigerators are missing entirely: soaring mountains covered with pine and black
spruce at its fullest extent, stand in the clouds to sink its severe granite peaks or cones, and presented
at intervals such landslides frightful traces the disasters of spring
avalanches are called the opposite side of the valley rise the spurs
of Monte-Blanco, scrambled, torn by innumerable crevasses and gigantic,
terrifying beauty and severity, - refrigerators now ending in the
valley shed their frozen waves, now covered with coarse weeds, ferns
and fir forests, now in its sharp peaks and needles in huge extravagant
plumes, bare and bleak, - to provide support to a huge amphitheater
of mountains and ice invisible whose pinnacle is the admirable head
of Mont Blanc.

There is so much majesty in this world of granite and ice, which is almost a dare to aspire to
describe the offensive in any way. The village of Chamonix is at the heart of the valley at
an equal distance calls refrigerators Bois and Bossons, which are the
closest to the plain. The population in all of it comes down to Chamonix
and five or six very poor villages, with 2,000 inhabitants at most. Chamonix
is literally a town of hotels and inns, more or less comfortable
and looks more or less seductive.

The buildings are all of granite flooring boards .-- When summer ends, when the valley is visited
by many thousands of onlookers, Chamonix is reduced to about 500 or 600 neighbors all noise dissipates
mules and cars, the hotels are completely deserted, and the valley turns to the desolation of
winter burial. Often the snow is so abundant at that time and landslides from the hills are so terrible,
that people last days prisoners held incommunicado whole, because the houses are covered with snow
everywhere in very thick layers. Life is then very sad and miserable in the desert of ice. In Chamonix
are almost all the comfort a traveler could wish for. Wherever stores
are small museums or art objects in marble, granite, wood, bone, etc., and
samples of flora, fauna and geology of these mountains, that travelers
buy out of curiosity and carrying memories of their trips .

Chamonix is actually a village guides or drivers of passengers, who serve rigorous in turn, own
tools and live mules partners in their profession, according to a regulation of the authority.
During the spring all the men are farmers . In the summer months become guides and mule drivers,
so without neglecting their duties.

When winter activity suppresses these means, was devoted to domestic work and produce art objects,
or are they looking for work in Geneva and other cities. Do not omit to say that the vast majority
of the inhabitants of the valley are distinguished by two remarkable qualities: the probity more
purified, and the advantage of being able to read at least currently.
  The message with which our Lord challenges the whole Church today is
that with which He began His ministry when He faced His apostate nation, "Repent, for the Kingdom
of God is at hand."

[1] The songs of the men which are most popular in war time bear evidence of this unconscious
virtue.  They fall into three classes.  There are the songs of cheer so popular in the camps
today: "Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Own Kit Bag and Smile, Smile, Smile," "Are We Down-hearted,
No," "Though Your Heart May Ache Awhile Never Mind," etc.  Then there are the songs of home:
"Keep the Home Fires Burning," "Tipperary," "Take Me Back to Dear Old Blighty," "Put Me on
the Train to London Town," "Back Home in Tennessee," "In My Old Kentucky Home," "There's a
Long, Long Trail Awinding," "Give Me Your Smile," "If You Were the Only Girl in The World,"
"Mother McCrae," etc.  Then there are the songs of nationality; The "Marseillaise," "John Brown's
Body," "When Irish Eyes are Smiling," "Come Back to Erin," "Annie Laurie," etc.

[2] See Appendix III for a typical expression of a soldier's new experience of religion at
the front.

[3] Quoted in "Hurrah and Hallelujah," pp. 116-119.

[4] It is interesting to note in this connection some words of Immanuel Kant.  See Appendix I.

[5] London Times, June 22, 1917.

[6] "The Challenge of the Present Crisis," Association Press.

CHAPTER VIII

THE WORLD AT WAR

Let us try to grasp the colossal facts of the present war.  Since the beginning of the conflict
there has been a daily attrition of more than 25,000 in killed, wounded, or prisoners every
twenty-four hours.  At the opening of the fourth year of the war the number killed was over
5,000,000.  This does not include those who have perished in the devastated nations.  Not less
than 6,000,000 men are now in the military prisons of Europe, some of whom have undergone great
suffering, both physical and mental.  More than 6,000,000 lie wounded today in the military
hospitals, not to speak of several times that number who have been patched up and sent back
into the line to face death again, or have been rejected as unfit for further service, often
left crippled or maimed, blinded, or deformed for life.

Mere numbers or statistics cannot measure the sacrifice and suffering of these lives.  If we
could know the infinite value of the unit of personality, or compute the preciousness and potentiality
of a single life destroyed, we might then hope to multiply it by the million.  If human scales
could weigh the sorrow of a widow's heart, could compute the anguish of a mother's loss, could
prophesy the deprivation of an orphan's lot, or know the good which might have been done by
even one man who has now been killed, we would then be in a position to begin to estimate the
casualty list.

There are today nearly 40,000,000 men with the colors.  If we add to these the 5,000,000 already
killed, the 6,000,000 prisoners and the large number discharged as unfit for further service,
we have a total of far more than 50,000,000 who have been with the colors in the first three
years of the war.  We can better realize the significance of this statement if we remember
that in no previous war have more than 3,000,000 men faced each other in conflict.  According
to Gibbon, Rome's great standing army was not over 400,000 men.  Napoleon's grand army did
not exceed 700,000, and in the Battle of Waterloo less than 200,000 men were engaged.  In the
American Civil War less than 3,000,000, and in the Russo-Japanese War only 2,500,000 men were
employed.  Indeed, if we sum up the twenty greatest wars of the last one hundred and twenty-five
years, from the Napoleonic Wars to the present time, less than 20,000,000 men were engaged,
while in this war nearly twice that number are now under arms.  Britain alone has enrolled
over 5,000,000 for the army, with 1,000,000 more from the overseas dominions, and about 500,000
for the navy.  Germany has called some 12,000,000 and Russia more than 12,000,000 to the colors.

By the end of 1917 nearly 6,000,000 men will have been killed.  Less than 5,500,000 were killed
in the twenty greatest wars of the last century and a quarter, all combined.  In the Battle
of Gettysburg only 3,000 were killed.  England's casualty list during a vigorous offensive
averages over 3,000 every day.  In the first ten days alone of the battle of the Somme, the
British lost 200,000 in killed or wounded. France as a whole has lost even more heavily, while
Germany's casualty list during the great battles of the Somme and in Flanders has averaged
200,000 a month.  When our own relatives are at the front, and our own boys are in the line,
we realize what these statistics mean.  In Germany alone the number of men killed now totals
far over 1,000,000. Think of the many millions of mothers and wives in the nations of Europe
scanning that crowded page of the newspaper, with several thousand names on the casualty list
every day, each looking to see if her boy's name is there.

During that fateful day of July 1st when the great drive on the Somme began, when the English
along a front of twenty-five miles and the French on a front of ten miles leaped out of the
trenches and sprang forward in that terrible charge, men were mowed down like ripened grain.
Regiments on both sides were cut to pieces.  The writer's brother-in-law, a young colonel,
went in with 1,100 men of his battalion--only 130 came out.  Only one officer was unscathed
and he has since been killed.  The young colonel was shot within an inch of the heart and fell
into a shellhole.  Two of his men fell dead on top of him.  There he lay under a terrible fire
for sixteen hours, and finally at midnight gained strength to struggle from under the two bodies
that lay upon him, and crawled on his hands and knees for over a mile back to the nearest dressing
station.  In the first year of the war he lost nearly half his men with trench foot, the men's
feet being frost-bitten or frozen in the muddy trenches.  In the second year he was wounded
in seven places by shrapnel, and later, after recovery, was almost killed.  He has now again
returned to the service.

Another red-cheeked boy told the writer that his battalion had gone in with 960 men and had
come out with only eighty.  In another battalion all the officers were killed or wounded and
the remaining handful was left with a lance-corporal in command: the colonel, the majors, captains,
lieutenants, sergeants, and corporals had all been killed or wounded.  At Bradford the writer
was told that their favorite sons in the "Bradford Pals" had to be sacrificed, and every man
that went into action in this battalion was either killed or wounded within a few hours.  An
unusual proportion of British officers have fallen.  The university students and the flower
of the land who have gone into the officers' training corps have oftentimes been among the
first to fall.

Let us now turn from the numbers of killed, wounded, and prisoners and estimate if we can the
cost of the conflict.  The present war, more than any in previous history, has been a warfare
of attrition, that is, by the killing and maiming of men and the destruction of resources to
attempt to wear out the enemy.

Already the cost of the war has mounted to over $130,000,000 a day, or more than $100,000 every
minute of the twelve hours that the sun shines upon us.  Contrast, for instance, the total
cost, the lives lost, and the numbers of men called to the colors in the twenty principal wars
during the last century and a quarter, from the Napoleonic Wars of 1793, with the figures for
the present war to August 4, 1917, at the end of the third year of the conflict.[1]

                  Twenty previous wars        Present War
  Total cost           $26,123,546,240    $75,000,000,000
  Total killed               6,498,097          5,000,000
  Called to the colors      18,562,200         40,000,000

We have said that the cost of the war has now risen to the almost unbelievable total of over
$130,000,000 a day.[2]  That is more than the total cost of the whole war between Russia and
Turkey in 1828.  In a single great day in the battles on the Somme, or in Belgium, the British
have used as much ammunition as they were able to manufacture in the entire first ten months
of the war in 1914.

Even before the end of 1915 the five great powers had more than doubled their national debts.
When will these debts be paid?  Great Britain, the wealthiest of the nations of Europe, after
one hundred years of peace still owes much of the debt incurred in the American Revolution
and all of the debt incurred in the Napoleonic Wars.  The whole cost of the American Civil
War was only $5,000,000,000, and of the Napoleonic Wars $6,000,000,000, while this war will
cost over six times the amount of either during this single year.

Great Britain's war debt at the end of the third year has reached the enormous total of more
than $20,000,000,000, or twenty times the national debt of the United States at the beginning
of the war, yet even this does not begin to exhaust her resources.  At the close of the Napoleonic
Wars Great Britain's debt was one-third of her national resources.  She can almost double her
present enormous war debt before utilizing a third of her wealth.

We have not in this calculation reckoned on the economic value of the lives destroyed.  That
would average about $3,000 for each man.  Five million men killed means an economic loss to
the countries concerned of $15,000,000,000.  But the economic value of the lives destroyed
represents only a small fraction of their potentiality--socially, morally, and spiritually.
No human brain can calculate, no heart can fathom the cost or loss of this terrible conflict.

The cost of less than one month of the present war would equal that of the entire Franco-Prussian
War of 1870.  Another month would pay for the whole Russo-Japanese War; twelve days would pay
for the Boer War, while the cost for three days would dig the Panama Canal.  At the beginning
of 1918 the war debts of the warring countries will exceed $90,000,000,000, or more than one-fifth
the wealth of all the warring nations of Europe.  The daily cost of the war is equal to half
the earning power of these European nations, and the interest on their war debts will be equal
to one-half their budgets as they stood at the beginning of the war.  The wealth of more than
twenty nations is being rapidly drained, and the world's financial reserves are being consumed
in this vicious and sinful struggle which an autocratic militarism has forced upon the world.

Although late in entering the war, America's expenditure has been out of all proportion to
that of any other nation.  Upon arrival in this country the writer finds the statement in our
press that the nation will have spent or sanctioned before the end of 1917, the enormous total
of $19,000,000,000.  That is more than twenty per cent of the entire cost of the war to date
for all the European nations.  That sum is as great as Germany spent on land and sea for the
conduct of the first three years of the war.  It represents more than twice our total wealth
in 1850, and one-twelfth of our present national wealth of $328,000,000,000.

In order to estimate further the cost and realize the suffering of the war, let us turn for
a moment to the nations devastated in Europe.  In Belgium and Northern France 9,500,000 were
being fed by the Commission for Relief in Belgium until Germany forbade it.  Of 7,000,000 inhabitants
of Belgium, 3,000,000 were early left destitute by the war and were drawing daily one meal
consisting of the equivalent of three thick slices of bread and a pint of soup.  Mr. F. C.
Wolcott writes:

"I have seen thousands of people lined up in snow or rain, soaked and chilly, waiting for bread
and soup.  I have returned to the distributing stations at the end of the day and have found
men, women, and children sometimes still standing in line, but later compelled to go back to
their pitiful homes, cold, wet, and miserable.  It was not until eighteen weary hours afterward
that they got the meal they missed.  The need will continue to be great for many months after
peace is declared.  Factories have been stripped of their machinery.  There is a complete stagnation
of industry.  It will take months to rehabilitate these industries and to start the wheels again."

In Serbia more than 4,000,000 people were deprived of their living by the war.  In Poland the
suffering has been more terrible than in either Belgium or Serbia.  The population fleeing
behind the retreating Russians were not able to keep up because of the women and children,
the aged and the sick.  They were overtaken by the German army and left in the charred remains
of their burned dwellings.  Some 200 cities and 15,000 towns and villages were destroyed in
Poland.  Already 2,000,000 have died of starvation there.  In some districts all the children
under six years of age have perished.

Armenia has suffered relatively more than any of the other nations. Mr. Henry Morgenthau, the
American Ambassador to Turkey, said: "One million of these people have either been massacred
or deported and unless succor reaches them shortly, those remaining will be lost."  In all
history there is no record more sad than that of the persecution and extermination of the Armenians.
University professors educated in the United States have had their hair and nails torn out
by the roots and have been slowly tortured to death.  Women and girls were outraged and brutally
killed.  Little children perished of hunger.  It is said that probably 1,000,000 of the 2,000,000
Armenians in Turkey have been slain, or have been driven into the country to starve, or have
been forced to accept Islam.

The American Committee for Armenian and Syrian Relief reports:

"Men in the army were the first to be brutally put to death.  These and civilians, after being
subjected to horrible tortures, were shot.  Even priests were made victims of brutal murder.
Women, children, the sick and aged, were forced at a moment's notice to start on foot on a
journey of exile.  Mothers, torn from their children, were compelled to leave the little ones
behind.  Women giving birth to children on the road were forbidden to delay, but, under the
whiplash, were made to continue their march until they dropped from exhaustion to die.  A United
States Consul reported that he saw helpless people brained with clubs, while children were
killed by beating their brains out against the rocks.  Other children were thrown into rivers
and those who could swim were shot down as they struggled in the water.  Crimes that have been,
and are being, practiced upon Armenian women are too cruel and horrible for words.  The mutilated
corpses of hundreds bear testimony to this inhuman reign." [3]

Who was responsible for these outrages, and how long will the world permit them to continue?

Whichever way we turn, whether we survey the number of killed, wounded, or prisoners, the cost
of the conflict, or the suffering of the devastated nations, we realize that the war means
sacrifice.  It is difficult for us at home in America to appreciate the spirit in which the
men in this great struggle in Europe are fighting, and the sacrifices they are making.  In
all these months in many lands, the writer has not heard from the lips of a single soldier
who had actually seen service at the front, words of hatred or of boasting.  Quietly and often
with sadness most of these men are going forward to face death.

Here is a letter from a young officer who fell on that fatal first day of July on the Somme.

"I never felt more confident or cheerful in my life before, and would not miss the attack for
anything on earth.  Every officer and man is more happy and cheerful than I have ever seen
them.  My idea in writing this letter is in case I am one of the 'costs' and get killed.  I
have been looking at the stars, and thinking what an immense distance they are away.  What
an insignificant thing the loss of, say, forty years of life is compared with them!  It seems
scarcely worth talking about. Well, good-bye, you darlings.  Try not to worry about it, and
remember that we shall meet again really quite soon.  This letter is going to be posted if . . ."

A friend of the writer, a young chaplain whom he met recently at the front, went out to find
his brother's mangled body on the battlefield. The boy who fell was the son of the Bishop of
Winchester, and one of the finest spirits in Oxford.  Canon Scott Holland writes:

"The attack had failed.  There was never any hope of its succeeding, for the machine guns of
the Germans were still in full play, with their fire unimpaired.  The body had to lie where
it had fallen.  Only, his brother could not endure to let it lie unhonoured.  He found some
shattered Somersets, who begged him to go no further.  But he heard a voice within him bidding
him risk it, and the call of the blood drove him on.  Creeping out of the far end of the trench,
as dusk fell, he crawled through the grass on hands and knees, in spite of shells and snipers,
dropping flat on the ground as the flares shot up from the German trenches.  At last he found
what he sought.  He could stroke with his hand the fair young head that he knew so well; he
could feel for the pocket-book and prayer-book, the badge and the whistle.  He could breathe
a prayer of benediction and then crawl back on his perilous way in the night."

The writer has just come from visiting a group of a dozen British and American military hospitals
in one French town, with from one to four thousand patients in each, where at this moment the
trains are arriving in almost a steady stream, bearing the wounded from the front in the great
drive in Flanders.  He has stood by the operating tables and passed down those long, unending
rows of cots.  Some of these tragic hospital wards are filled with men, every one of whom is
blinded for life by poison gas or shrapnel.  They, like all the other wounded, are brave and
cheerful, but it will take great courage to maintain this cheer, groping a long lifetime in
the dark.  One man counted 151 trains of twenty cars each, or 3,000 carriages, filled with
German wounded passing back in a steady stream through Belgium.  Behind all the active fronts
these train loads of wounded are daily bearing their burden of suffering humanity.  The cities
and towns of Europe are filled with limping or crippled or wounded men today.

Opposite the writer at the ship's table sat a young man with the lower part of his face carried
away.  His chin and jaw were gone, yet he must live on for a lifetime deformed.  Another young
fellow had spent seven long weary months in training.  The moment his regiment reached the
front it was ordered immediately into action.  He sprang to the top of the trench, but never
got over it.  He fell back wounded.  Within three days he was back in England again, but with
only one leg.  Seven months of training, five minutes in action, then crippled for life!  The
writer saw one young fellow whose face was left contorted by shrapnel, which had carried away
one eye and the bridge of his nose.  He was a quiet, earnest Christian. The stone does there any
role in what pertains to the art, almost everything is in plaster or plastic, and wood work of labor
wealth is secondary. That consideration is greatly diminished the comparative
value of the exquisite details of the palace. [4]

Hear that young soldier of France, Alfred Casalis, a brilliant student of philosophy and theology,
a Student Volunteer for the African mission field, as he writes home to his father and mother
at the age of nineteen: "I volunteered of course.  I know with an unalterable knowledge and
with an unconquerable confidence that the foundation of my faith is unshakeable, it rests upon
the Rock.  I shall fight with a good conscience and without fear (I hope), certainly without
hate.  I feel myself filled with an illimitable hope.  You can have no idea of the peace in
which I live.  On the march I sing inwardly.  I listen to the music that is slumbering inside
me.  The Master's call is always ringing loudly in my ears.  I am not afraid of death.  I have
made the sacrifice of my life.  I know that to die is to begin to live."  And the last sentence
of the unfinished letter written before the charge in which he fell, "The attack cannot but
succeed.  There will be some wounded, some killed, but we shall go forward and far--" But this was
not the main thing, though she hiciese by believing it. The hidden reason, she was ashamed to admit to
herself, it was Luis. The warm greeting of his former boyfriend had awakened suddenly all his memories,
all his hopes, sorrows and joys of another time sleeping in the depths of his soul and birds
among the leaves of the tree.

The inner turmoil was intense, but nothing little or continent was reflected by severe cold. However,
he felt a strong shudder to listen very close to his ear these words: - What are you wearing
beautiful, Fernanda!

He was so distracted he did not realize that the count was sitting
at his side.

Involuntarily his hand the site of the heart. Answer immediately, he smiled
saying: - You think? - Yes ... Old about me, right?

Made an effort and looked intently into his face. - No, some gray
in his beard ... and look a bit tired.

The trembling
of his voice contrasted with the apparent indifference that wanted
to give his words.

The count grew suddenly serious, put his hand to his forehead and
replied after a few moments as if gloomily was speaking to himself:
- Tired, yes, that's the right word ... Very tired!

... The fatigue I get through the pores.

They kept both silent. The count was given to intense meditation
drew deep wrinkles on his forehead.

Finally he said, engaging in conversation again: - I've seen you
before coming here. - Where? - She asked, affecting surprise. - On
the road.

I
left this afternoon for a ride horses and I ran into the chaise. I knew you well. - Well, I have not seen
you ... I remember that there are two or three riders before reaching
Lancia, but I have not met one.

In saying this could not prevent a wave of crimson dye your cheeks
again. Again, to cover the head.

His eyes met those of Amalia, who
was perched upon them shining, like steel. Contempláronse an instant.
Feline mouth Valencia contracted with a smile.

Fernanda
wanted to correspond with another as false, but could not.

Turned round again to the count and
talked of things indifferent, theaters, music, travel plans.



The nation has already generously responded to the needs of the wounded even before the first
battle was fought, giving more in one week than any other nation in a year for the same purpose.
And not a dollar too much has been given for this great cause.  But we shall soon have several
millions of fighting men under arms.  What are we to do for these men?  We have already seen
that they present a threefold need. There is the physical need of these millions who will soon
be training, fighting, and suffering.  Only the men at the front know what it really is.  There
are the mental and social requirements of men who must have recreation, healthy amusement and
occupation.  There is also the moral and spiritual need of men who will face the greatest temptations
of their lives, when they will be farthest from the help of home and friends, while old standards
seem to be submerged or swept away "for the period of the war."

We have already seen that the building that bears the red triangle of the Y M C A at the front
is at once the soldier's club, his home, his church where his own denomination holds its services,
his school, his place of rest, his recreation center, his bank and postoffice where he writes
his letters, his friend in need that stands by him at the last and meets his relatives who
are called to his bedside in the hospital. If there is anything which safeguards the physical,
social, and moral health of the men who are dying for us, can we do less than provide it for
them?  While billions are being spent for destruction, must we not at least invest an infinitesimal
fraction of one per cent of our expenditure, in construction, in that which is the greatest
asset of any nation--its moral manhood?  Can we not provide a home away from home for our own
sons and the other boys with them whose parents may be too poor to do so?

Here is a unique contribution which America can also make to her hard pressed allies who have
been exhausted by three terrible years of fighting.  Britain has already set us a wonderful
example and will not need our help.  But there is France to which we owe so much and whose
war weary soldiers sorely need just such centers for recreation and rebuilding.  General Petain,
the Commander in Chief, and the French authorities have asked for the help of our Movement
in their camps. General Pershing, after surveying the field, has declared that the greatest
service which America can immediately render France, even before our own men can reach the
trenches in large numbers, is to extend the welfare work of the Y M C A to the entire French
Army.  Can we do less than this for the nation that gave all that Washington asked in our own
hour of crisis?  Then there is Italy, with all her deep need and great possibilities.  What
can we do to minister to the wants of her great army?

But let us turn to Russia, which represents the deepest need of all--the nation which has undergone
the greatest suffering, both within and without its borders, of any of the belligerents.  Think
of its vast area, greater than all North America, or one seventh of the land area of the entire
globe. Gallieni's brief speech to undertake the defense of Paris made her own. I thought to stay until
the last effort, as well as the general hard. - Let them come! -
Said with a tragic -.

I find on my site! ... Your site was the study. I wanted to see things
close to relating to future generations.

The stand firm with their supplies of food and wine. Furthermore, had the project - so your partner
disappear - to bring to live with him some friends who wandered in search of food problems and felt
fear in the solitude of their homes. The danger approaches to good people and adds a new attraction
to the pleasures of the community.

The expansion of the prisoners love of Terror, when they expected
from one moment to another being driven to the guillotine, revived
in his memory.

Closeness of a swallow life as we die! ... The study of the rue de la Pompe was going to attend
the same parties, crazy and desperate for a stranded ship with supplies plentiful. Desnoyers
left the Orsay station in a first-class compartment. Mentally praised the good order that the
authority had arranged everything. Each passenger had his seat.

But in the Gare d'Austerlitz a stampede stormed the train. The doors opened as if they were to break,
packages and children came through the windows as well as projectiles. People were pushed with
the rudeness of a crowd fleeing from a fire .

In the space for eight people were installed fourteen aisles are
blocked forever with lots of luggage, which served as seats to new
travelers.

They had gone social distances. The common people invaded preferably luxury cars, expecting
to find them more space. Those who had first-class ticket going in search of the worst cars
in the vain hope of traveling comfortable.

In side roads waiting one day before your departure time long trains
made up of cattle cars.

The mobile stables were full of people sitting on the wooden floor
or on chairs brought from home.

Each train was a camp that wanted to start, and while I stood motionless,
a layer of greasy paper and fruit peels was forming at the along it.

The assailants, to push, were tolerated and forgave fraternally. "In
war as in war," they said as the latest excuse.

And each neighbor pressed to snatch a few inches of seat, to introduce
their small packages baggage hanging over people with the most implausible
equilibria.

Desnoyers was losing little by little advantages of first occupancy. He inspired pity these poor people
who had waited for the train at four in the morning at eight o'clock
in the evening.

Women wailed in exhaustion, rights in the corridor, looking fierce envy those who occupied a
seat. The children were crying with hungry goat bleating. July he gave in his place, dividing
among the needy and improvident all foods that had been provided Argensola. The restaurants
seemed station looted. During long waits in the train, only the platforms were military: soldiers
running to hear the trumpet call to return to take his place in the
strings of cars moving up and went up to Paris.

In the sidings, waiting long trains of war that the path is free to continue your journey. The
Ironshirts, wearing a yellow vest on his chest of steel, sat with his legs hanging on the doors of
wagons stables, inside which they neighing. On platforms caissons lined gray. The slender throats of
75 pointed to as high as telescopes. He spent the night in the corridor,
sitting on the edge of a suitcase, watching others with barbarism
dozing fatigue and emotion.



BY

VISCOUNT BRYCE

From Four Members of the German Missions Staff in Turkey to the Imperial German Ministry of
Foreign Affairs at Berlin: "Out of 2,000 to 3,000 peasant women from the Armenian Plateau who
were brought here in good health, only forty or fifty skeletons are left.  The prettier ones
are the victims of their gaolers' lust; the plain ones succumb to blows, hunger, and thirst.
Every day more than a hundred corpses are carried out of Aleppo.  All this happened under the
eyes of high Turkish officials.  The German scutcheon is in danger of being smirched for ever
in the memory of the Near Eastern peoples."

Events in Armenia, published in the Sonnenaufgang, and in the Allgemeine Missions-Zeitschrift,
November, 1915: "Twelve hundred of the most prominent Armenians and other Christians were arrested;
674 of them were embarked on thirteen Tigris barges, the prisoners were stripped of all their
money and then of their clothes; after that they were thrown into the river.  Five or six priests
were stripped naked one day, smeared with tar, and dragged through the streets.  For a whole
month corpses were observed floating down the River Euphrates, hideously mutilated.  The prisons
at Biredjik are filled regularly every day and emptied every night--into the Euphrates." . . .

From a German eye-witness: "In Moush there are 25,000 Armenians; in the neighborhood there
are 300 villages, each containing about 500 houses. In all these not a single male Armenian
is now to be seen, and hardly a woman.  Every officer boasted of the number he had personally
massacred.  In Harpout the people have had to endure terrible tortures. They have had their
eyebrows plucked out, their breasts cut off, their nails torn off.  Their torturers hew off
their feet or else hammer nails into them just as they do in shoeing horses.  When they die,
the soldiers cry: 'Now let your Christ help you.'"

Memorandum forwarded by a foreign resident at H.: "On the 1st of June, 3,000 people (mostly
women, girls, and children) left H. accompanied by seventy policemen.  The policemen many times
violated the women openly. Another convoy of exiles joined the party, 18,000 in all.  The journey
began, and on the way the pretty girls were carried off one by one, while the stragglers from
the convoy were invariably killed.  On the fortieth day the convoy came in sight of the Euphrates.
Here they saw the bodies of more than 200 men floating in the river.  Here the Kurds took from
them everything they had, so that for five days the whole convoy marched completely naked under
the scorching sun.  For another five days they did not have a morsel of bread, nor even a drop
of water.  They were scorched to death by thirst.  Hundreds upon hundreds fell dead on the
way, their tongues were turned to charcoal, and when, at the end of five days, they reached
a fountain, the whole convoy naturally rushed towards it.  But here the policemen barred the
way and forbade them to take a single drop of water.  At another place where there were wells,
some women threw themselves into them, as there was no rope or pail to draw up the water. 
These women were drowned, the dead bodies still remaining there stinking in the water, and
yet the rest of the people later drank from that well.  On the sixty-fourth day, they gathered
together all the men and sick women and children and burned and killed them all.  On the seventieth
day, when they reached Aleppo, there were left 150 women and children altogether out of the
whole convoy of 18,000." 

He who does not read anything about the Alhambra is wonderful to see
her.

He who has read the descriptions of Washington Irving, Theophile Gautier
and other writers, the reality is lower, at first, and leaves the Alhambra
quite disappointed.

But if again the following day and see everything, and meditate
to guess the past that disappeared, acquired a better idea, and at each
visit to the Alhambra feels grows in the imagination and has more
and more charms.

  Lastly, if viewed from the top of Jeneralife height, and covers all the
land round about, the Alhambra appears the spirit in all the grandeur
of a whole that was, and the findings vary. We went up to the Alhambra in four
different days, on sides and different ways, and looking for all
their faces or their views.

  
  
    Viewed from the hill or from the Jeneralife Albaicin,
  the impressions are different. From the first
  point is the original looks, superb and picturesque.
    From the second it is completely understood, finding it great, wonderful
and very complex.

  The Jeneralife was the house, in a sense, of the
  Alhambra. Sits in a hill top, immediately to the plain of the
    Alhambra, and is, in turn, dominated the other highest hill, where
once existed a fortress blew Marshal Soult during the Napoleonic war,
and whose few ruins are still scattered on the mound.



  We think about You kneeling in the Garden
  Ah!  God, the agony of that dread Garden;
    We know you prayed for us upon the Cross.
  If anything could make us glad to bear it
  'Twould be the knowledge, that You willed to bear it
    Pain, death, the uttermost of human loss.

  Tho' we forgot You, You will not forget us.
  We feel so sure that You will not forget us.
    But stay with us until this dream is past--
  And so we ask for courage, strength, and pardon,
  Especially I think, we ask for pardon,
    And that You'll stand beside us to the last." 

Rang and said singular turning to the maid who came: - Paula, bring
a glass of water.

A few moments later he came Josefina, poorly dressed, with a coarse
cloth mandilito, rough shod your feet with shoes, supporting work
between her small hands a tray with a glass of water and sugar.

The gatherings were stunned. Luis paled. He moved the girl to the middle of the room, looking timidly
at her godmother. This beckoned him to come near the count. He hesitated as if the absent-minded
gentleman, but seeing the creature stood before him, he hastened to take the cup and took it
with a trembling hand to his lips.


Be invariably courteous, considerate, and kind.  Never do anything likely to injure or destroy
property, and always look upon looting as a disgraceful act.  You are sure to meet with a welcome
and to be trusted; and your conduct must justify that welcome and that trust.

Do your duty bravely.

Fear God.

Honor the King."

Kitchener,
  Field-Marshal.

