"I shouldn't be surprised--but mind I don't say this for certain--but I shouldn't be surprised
if he owed a little money."

Miss Mackenzie's face became rather long.

"What do you call a little, Miss Todd?"

"Two or three hundred pounds. I don't call that a great deal."

"Oh dear, no!" and Miss Mackenzie's face again became cheerful. "That could be settled without
any trouble."

"Upon my word you are the most generous woman I ever saw."

"No, I'm not that."

"Or else you must be very much in love?"

"I don't think I am that either, Miss Todd; only I don't care much about money if other things
are suitable. What I chiefly wanted to know was--"

"About that Miss Floss?"

"Yes, Miss Todd."

"My belief is there never was a greater calumny, or what I should call a stronger attempt at
a do. Mind I don't think much of your St Stumfolda, and never did. I believe the poor man has
never said a word to the woman. Mrs Stumfold has put it into her head that she could have Mr
Maguire if she chose to set her cap at him, and, I dare say, Miss Floss has been dutiful to
her saint. But, Miss Mackenzie, if nothing else hinders you, don't let that hinder you." Then
Miss Todd, having done her business and made her report, took her leave.

This was on Saturday. The next day would be Sunday, and then on the following morning she must
make her answer. All that she had heard about Mr Maguire was, to her thinking, in his favour.
As to his poverty, that he had declared himself, and that she did not mind. As to a few hundred
pounds of debt, how was a poor man to have helped such a misfortune? In that matter of Miss
Floss he had been basely maligned,--so much maligned, that Miss Mackenzie owed him all her
sympathy. What excuse could she now have for refusing him?

When she went to bed on the Sunday night such were her thoughts and her feelings.

CHAPTER XIV

Tom Mackenzie's Bed-Side

There was a Stumfoldian edict, ultra-Median-and-Persian in its strictness, ordaining that no
Stumfoldian in Littlebath should be allowed to receive a letter on Sundays. And there also
existed a coordinate rule on the part of the Postmaster-General,--or, rather, a privilege granted
by that functionary,--in accordance with which Stumfoldians, and other such sects of Sabbatarians,
were empowered to prohibit the letter-carriers from contaminating their special knockers on
Sunday mornings. Miss Mackenzie had given way to this easily, seeing nothing amiss in the edict,
and not caring much for her Sunday letters. In consequence, she received on the Monday mornings
those letters which were due to her on Sundays, and on this special Monday morning she received
a letter, as to which the delay was of much consequence. It was to tell her that her brother
Tom was dying, and to pray that she would be up in London as early on the Monday as was practicable.
Mr Samuel Rubb, junior, who had written the letter in Gower Street, had known nothing of the
Sabbatical edicts of the Stumfoldians.

"It is an inward tumour," said Mr Rubb, "and has troubled him long, though he has said nothing
about it. It is now breaking, and the doctor says he can't live. He begs that you will come
to him, as he has very much to say to you. Mrs Tom would have written, but she is so much taken
up, and is so much beside herself, that she begs me to say that she is not able; but I hope
it won't be less welcome coming from me. The second pair back will be ready for you, just as
if it were your own. I would be waiting at the station on Monday, if I knew what train you
would come by."

This she received while at breakfast on the Monday morning, having sat down a little earlier
than usual, in order that the tea-things might be taken away so as to make room for Mr Maguire.

Of course she must go up to town instantly, by the first practicable train. She perceived at
once that she would have to send a message by telegraph, as they would have expected to hear
from her that morning. She got the railway guide, and saw that the early express train had
already gone. There was, however, a mid-day train which would reach Paddington in the afternoon.
She immediately got her bonnet and went off to the telegraph office, leaving word with the
servant, that if any one called "he" was to be told that she had received sudden tidings which
took her up to London. On her return she found that "he" had not been there yet, and now she
could only hope that he would not come till after she had started. It would, of course, be
impossible, at such a moment as this, to make any answer to such a proposition as Mr Maguire's.

He came, and when the servant gave him the message at the door, he sent up craving permission
to see her but for a moment. She could not refuse him, and went down to him in the drawing-room,
with her shawl and bonnet.

"Dearest Margaret," said he, "what is this?" and he took both her hands.

"I have received word that my brother, in London, is very ill,--that he is dying, and I must
go to him."

He still held her hands, standing close to her, as though he had some special right to comfort her.

"Cannot I go with you?" he said. "Let me; do let me."

"Oh, no, Mr Maguire; it is impossible. What could you do? I am going to my brother's house."

"But have I not a right to be of help to you at such a time?" he asked.

"No, Mr Maguire; no right; certainly none as yet."

"Oh! Margaret."

"I'm sure you will see that I cannot talk of anything of that sort now."

"But you will not be back for ever so long."

"I cannot tell."

"Oh! Margaret; you will not leave me in suspense? After bidding me wait a fortnight, you will
not go away without telling me that you will be mine when you come back? One word will do it."

"Mr Maguire, you really must excuse me now."

"One word, Margaret; only one word," and he still held her.

"Mr Maguire," she said, tearing her hand from him, "I am astonished at you. I tell you that
my brother is dying and you hold me here, and expect me to give you an answer about nonsense.
I thought you were more manly."

He saw that there was a flash in her eye as he stepped back; so he begged her pardon, and muttering
something about hoping to hear from her soon, took his leave. Poor man! I do not see why she
should not have accepted him, as she had made up her mind to do so. And to him, with his creditors,
and in his present position, any certainty in this matter would have made so much difference!

At the Paddington station Miss Mackenzie was met by her other lover, Mr Rubb. Mr Rubb, however,
had never yet declared himself as holding this position, and did not do so on the present occasion.
Their conversation in the cab was wholly concerning her brother's state, or nearly so. It seemed
that there was no hope. Mr Rubb said that very clearly. As to time the doctor would say nothing
certain; but he had declared that it might occur any day. The patient could never leave his
bed again; but as his constitution was strong, he might remain in his present condition some
weeks. He did not suffer much pain, or, at any rate, did not complain of much; but was very
sad. Then Mr Rubb said one other word.

"I am afraid he is thinking of his wife and children."

"Would there be nothing for them out of the business?" asked Miss Mackenzie.

The junior partner at first shook his head, saying nothing. After a few minutes he did speak
in a low voice. "If there be anything, it will be very little,--very little."

Miss Mackenzie was rejoiced that she had given no definite promise to Mr Maguire. There seemed
to be now a job for her to do in the world which would render it quite unnecessary that she
should look about for a husband. If her brother's widow were left penniless, with seven children,
there would be no longer much question as to what she would do with her money. Perhaps the
only person in the world that she cordially disliked was her sister-in-law. She certainly knew
no other woman whose society would be so unpalatable to her. But if things were so as Mr Rubb
now described them, there could be no doubt about her duty. It was very well indeed that her
answer to Mr Maguire had been postponed to that Monday.

She found her sister-in-law in the dining-room, and Mrs Mackenzie, of course, received her
with a shower of tears. "I did think you would have come, Margaret, by the first train."

Then Margaret was forced to explain all about the letter and the Sunday arrangements at Littlebath;
and Mrs Tom was stupid and wouldn't understand, but persisted in her grievance, declaring that
Tom was killing himself with disappointment.

"And there's Dr Slumpy just this moment gone without a word to comfort one,--not even to say
about when it will be. I suppose you'll want your dinner before you go up to see him. As for
us we've had no dinners, or anything regular; but, of course, you must be waited on." Miss
Mackenzie simply took off her bonnet and shawl, and declared herself ready to go upstairs as
soon as her brother would be ready to see her.

"It's fret about money has done it all, Margaret," said the wife. "Since the day that Walter's
shocking will was read, he's never been himself for an hour. Of course he wouldn't show it
to you; but he never has."

Margaret turned short round upon her sister-in-law on the stairs.

"Sarah," said she, and then she stopped herself. "Never mind; it is natural, no doubt, you
should feel it; but there are times and places when one's feelings should be kept under control."

"That's mighty fine," said Mrs Mackenzie; "but, however, if you'll wait here, I'll go up to him."

In a few minutes more Miss Mackenzie was standing by her brother's bedside, holding his hand
in hers.

"I knew you would come, Margaret," he said.

"Of course I should come; who doubted it? But never mind that, for here I am."

"I only told her that we expected her by the earlier train," said Mrs Tom.

"Never mind the train as long as she's here," said Tom. "You've heard how it is with me, Margaret?"

Then Margaret buried her face in the bed-clothes and wept, and Mrs Tom, weeping also, hid herself
behind the curtains.

There was nothing said then about money or the troubles of the business, and after a while
the two women went down to tea. I expected to see the day, and although I do not see it, must come at last,
when it is treated as a madman or an impostor who dares to claim nobility or precedence, and can
not display your family name in the history of their country. Even that can display, and can not
write your own under it in the same or as beautiful characters, must submit to the imputation
of degeneracy, which are exempt from humble and obscure. "The good thing about Penn, also
placed ago in which Landor dressed his thoughts, when the Lord tells Quaker
Peterborough:" Of all the pride, however, and all the craziness, the coarsest
is where a man has no merit in itself is to a par with one that has
it, and found that claim in any plea or better title than that, though
he has not, his grandfather had. I would not use violence or coercion
in any rational creature; but rather that such brutality in a human
form must run through the streets with no cure, I screamed like a little
kid for the blacksmith in his oven, and the horn of my barn soaking unthong
next door. "Landor could write his name with his family in beautiful
characters, so not ashamed to relate stories of their ancestors.

He was honored with satisfaction that perpetuates the memory of two of these
characters in the talks" Imaginary "between King Henry IV. and Sir Arnold
Savage, Oliver Cromwell and Walter Noble.

Though they are still gentle,--perhaps more gentle than ever in their movements,--there is
a decision in all they do very unlike their usual mode of action. The sick man, who is not
so sick but what he can ponder on the matter, feels himself to be like a baby, whom he has
seen the nurse to take from its cradle, pat on the back, feed, and then return to its little
couch, all without undue violence or tyranny, but still with a certain consciousness of omnipotence
as far as that child was concerned. The vitality of the man is gone from him, and he, in his
prostrate condition, debarred by all the features of his condition from spontaneous exertion,
feels himself to be more a woman than the woman herself. She, if she be such a one as our Miss
Mackenzie, arranges her bottles with precision; knows exactly how to place her chair, her lamp,
and her teapot; settles her cap usefully on her head, and prepares for the night's work certainly
with satisfaction. And such are the best women of the world,--among which number I think that
Miss Mackenzie has a right to be counted.

A few words of affection were spoken between the brother and sister, for at such moments brotherly
affection returns, and the estrangements of life are all forgotten in the old memories. He
seemed comforted to feel her hand upon the bed, and was glad to pronounce her name, and spoke
to her as though she had been the favourite of the family for years, instead of the one member
of it who had been snubbed and disregarded. Poor man, who shall say that there was anything
hypocritical or false in this? And yet, undoubtedly, it was the fact that Margaret was now
the only wealthy one among them, which had made him send to her, and think of her, as he lay
there in his sickness.

When these words of love had been spoken, he turned himself on his pillow, and lay silent for
a long while,--for hours, till the morning sun had risen, and the daylight was again seen through
the window curtain. It was not much after midsummer, and the daylight came to them early. From
time to time she had looked at him, and each hour in the night she had crept round to him,
and given him that which he needed. She did it all with a certain system, noiselessly, but
with an absolute assurance on her own part that she carried with her an authority sufficient
to ensure obedience. On that ground, in that place, I think that even Miss Todd would have
succumbed to her.

But when the morning sun had driven the appearance of night from the room, making the paraphernalia
of sickness more ghastly than they had been under the light of the lamp, the brother turned
himself back again, and began to talk of those things which were weighing on his mind.

"Margaret," he said, "it's very good of you to come, but as to myself, no one's coming can
be of any use to me."

"It is all in the hands of God, Tom."

"No doubt, no doubt," said he, sadly, not daring to argue such a point with her, and yet feeling
but little consolation from her assurance. "So is the bullock in God's hands when the butcher
is going to knock him on the head, but yet we know that the beast will die. Men live and die
from natural causes, and not by God's interposition."

"But there is hope; that is what I mean. If God pleases--"

"Ah, well. But, Margaret, I fear that he will not please; and what am I to do about Sarah and
the children?"

This was a question that could be answered by no general platitude,--by no weak words of hopeless
consolation. Coming from him to her, it demanded either a very substantial answer, or else
no answer at all. What was he to do about Sarah and the children? Perhaps there came a thought
across her mind that Sarah and the children had done very little for her,--had considered her
very little, in those old, weary days, in Arundel Street. And those days were not, as yet,
so very old. It was now not much more than twelve months since she had sat by the deathbed
of her other brother,--since she had expressed to herself, and to Harry Handcock, a humble
wish that she might find herself to be above absolute want.

"I do not think you need fret about that, Tom," she said, after turning these things over in
her mind for a minute or two.

"How, not fret about them? But I suppose you know nothing of the state of the business. Has
Rubb spoken to you?"

"He did say some word as we came along in the cab."

"What did he say?"

"He said--"

"Well, tell me what he said. He said, that if I died--what then? You must not be afraid of
speaking of it openly. Why, Margaret, they have all told me that it must be in a month or two.
What did Rubb say?"

"He said that there would be very little coming out of the business--that is, for Sarah and
the children--if anything were to happen to you."

"I don't suppose they'd get anything. How it has been managed I don't know. I have worked like
a galley slave at it, but I haven't kept the books, and I don't know how things have gone so
badly. They have gone badly,--very badly."

"Has it been Mr Rubb's fault?"

"I won't say that; and, indeed, if it has been any man's fault it has been the old man's. I
don't want to say a word against the one that you know. Oh, Margaret!"

"Don't fret yourself now, Tom."

"If you had seven children, would not you fret yourself? And I hardly know how to speak to
you about it. I know that we have already had ever so much of your money, over two thousand
pounds; and I fear you will never see it again."

"Never mind, Tom; it is yours, with all my heart. Only, Tom, as it is so badly wanted, I would
rather it was yours than Mr Rubb's. Could I not do something that would make that share of
the building yours?"

He shifted himself uneasily in his bed, and made her understand that she had distressed him.

"But perhaps it will be better to say nothing more about that," said she.

"It will be better that you should understand it all. The property belongs nominally to us,
but it is mortgaged to the full of its value. Rubb can explain it all, if he will. Your money
went to buy it, but other creditors would not be satisfied without security. Ah, dear! it is
so dreadful to have to speak of all this in this way."

"Then don't speak of it, Tom."

"But what am I to do?"

"Are there no proceeds from the business?"

"Yes, for those who work in it; and I think there will be something coming out of it for Sarah,--something,
but it will be very small. The seeds of the aging trees blew by the thousands down the south-west gales;
each falling seed taking root, which cannot produce the wide-leaf trees, but
however the seeds of the needle-leaved are anticipated.
 As she did so, she made certain rapid calculations
in her head. She must give up Mr Maguire. There was no doubt about that. She must give up all
idea of marrying any one, and, as she thought of this, she told herself that she was perhaps
well rid of a trouble. She had already given away to the firm of Rubb and Mackenzie above a
hundred a-year out of her income. If she divided the remainder with Mrs Tom, keeping about
three hundred and fifty pounds a-year for herself and Susanna, she would, she thought, keep
her promise well, and yet retain enough for her own comfort and Susanna's education. It would
be bad for the prospects of young John Ball, the third of the name, whom she had taught herself
to regard as her heir; but young John Ball would know nothing of the good things he had lost.
As to living with her sister-in-law Sarah, and sharing her house and income with the whole
family, that she declared to herself nothing should induce her to do. She would give up half
of all that she had, and that half would be quite enough to save her brother's children from
want. In making the promise to her brother she said nothing about proportions, and nothing
as to her own future life. "What I have," she said, "I will share with them and you may rest
assured that they shall not want." Of course he thanked her as dying men do thank those who
take upon themselves such charges; but she perceived as he did so, or thought that she perceived,
that he still had something more upon his mind.

Mrs Tom came and relieved her in the morning, and Miss Mackenzie was obliged to put off for
a time that panoply of sick-room armour which made her so indomitable in her brother's bedroom. never influenced
or attempted to inspire a ballot, and hereafter many, and not only my bear tenants, have asked me
to whom, they should furnish theirs." Nor was he utterly existing at gavel jockey, though an appearance
would have been at the superintend of the (at that lastingness) Regent.
 But she said no word of her promise to her brother, except
that she declared that the money lent was now to be regarded as a present made by her to him
personally.

"I am afraid that that will avail nothing," said Mr Rubb, junior, "for the amount now stands
as a debt due by the firm to you, and the firm, which would pay you the money if it could,
cannot pay it to your brother's estate any more than it can to yours."

"But the interest," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Oh, yes! the interest can be paid," said Mr Rubb, junior, but the tone of his voice did not
give much promise that this interest would be forthcoming with punctuality.

She watched again that night; and on the next day, in the afternoon, she was told that a gentleman
wished to see her in the drawing-room. Her thoughts at once pointed to Mr Maguire, and she
went downstairs prepared to be very angry with that gentleman. But on entering the room she
found her cousin, John Ball. She was, in truth, glad to see him; for, after all, she thought
that she liked him the best of all the men or women that she knew. He was always in trouble,
but then she fancied that with him she at any rate knew the worst. There was nothing concealed
with him,--nothing to be afraid of. She hoped that they might continue to know each other intimately
as cousins. Under existing circumstances they could not, of course, be anything more to each
other than that.

"This is very kind of you, John," she said, taking his hand. "How did you know I was here?"

"Mr Slow told me. I was with Mr Slow about business of yours. I'm afraid from what I hear that
you find your brother very ill."

"Very ill, indeed, John,--ill to death."

She then asked after her uncle and aunt, and the children, at the Cedars.

They were much as usual, he said; and he added that his mother would be very glad to see her
at the Cedars; only he supposed there was no hope of that.

"Not just at present, John. You see I am wholly occupied here."

"And will he really die, do you think?"

"The doctors say so."

"And his wife and children--will they be provided for?"

Margaret simply shook her head, and John Ball, as he watched her, felt assured that his uncle
Jonathan's money would never come in his way, or in the way of his children. We shall keep silence over
the come back of that manfrom sea.

Even if the man is skilled enough to hook the fish, he could catch the fish from the rough sea merely
because of his luck. It is nothing but the same luck happen in statesmanship.
It is seen that the big fishes are hooked on the same place in the middist
of fast current and algae-bed. Here too the man could catch the fish
in.



Then he went on to explain to her that she was in luck's way, "as usual," said the poor fellow,
thinking of his own misfortunes, and that she would greatly increase her income by the sale.
Indeed, it seemed to her that she would regain pretty nearly all she had lost by the loan to
Rubb and Mackenzie. "How very singular," thought she to herself. Under these circumstances,
it might, after all, be possible that she should marry Mr Maguire, if she wished it.

When Mr Ball had told his business he did not stay much longer. He said no word of his own
hopes, if hopes they could be called any longer. As he left her, he just referred to what had
passed between them. "This is no time, Margaret," said he, "to ask you whether you have changed
your mind?"

"No, John; there are other things to think of now; are there not? And, besides, they will want
here all that I can do for them."

She spoke to him with an express conviction that what was wanted of her by him, as well as
by others, was her money, and it did not occur to him to contradict her.

"He might have asked to see me, I do think," said Mrs Tom, when John Ball was gone. "But there
always was an upsetting pride about those people at the Cedars which I never could endure.
And they are as poor as church mice. When poverty and pride go together I do detest them. I
suppose he came to find out all about us, but I hope you told him nothing."

To all this Miss Mackenzie made no answer at all.

CHAPTER XV

The Tearing of the Verses

Things went on in Gower Street for three or four weeks in the same way, and then Susanna was
fetched home from Littlebath. Miss Mackenzie would have gone down herself but that she was
averse to see Mr Maguire. She therefore kept on her Littlebath lodgings, though Mrs Tom said
much to her of the wasteful extravagance in doing so. It was at last settled that Mr Rubb should
go down to Littlebath and bring Susanna back with him; and this he did, not at all to that
young lady's satisfaction. It was understood that Susanna did not leave the school, at which
she had lately been received as a boarder; but the holidays had come, and it was thought well
that she should see her father. During this time Miss Mackenzie received two letters from Mr
Maguire. In the first he pleaded hard for an answer to his offer. He had, he said, now relinquished
his curacy, having found the interference of that terrible woman to be unendurable. He had
left his curacy, and was at present without employment. Under such circumstances, "his Margaret"
would understand how imperative it was that he should receive an answer. A curacy, or, rather,
a small incumbency, had offered itself among the mines in Cornwall; but he could not think
of accepting this till he should know what "his Margaret" might say to it.

To this Margaret answered most demurely, and perhaps a little slily. She said that her brother's
health and affairs were at present in such a condition as to allow her to think of nothing
else; that she completely understood Mr Maguire's position, and that it was essential that
he should not be kept in suspense. Under these combined circumstances she had no alternative
but to release him from the offer he had made. This she did with the less unwillingness as
it was probable that her pecuniary position would be considerably altered by the change in
her brother's family which they were now expecting almost daily. Then she bade him farewell,
with many expressions of her esteem, and said that she hoped he might be happy among the mines
in Cornwall.

