CHAPTER XV.

WHEREIN IT IS TOLD AND KNOWN WHO THE KNIGHT OF THE MIRRORS AND HIS SQUIRE WERE

Don Quixote went off satisfied, elated, and vain-glorious in the highest degree at having won
a victory over such a valiant knight as he fancied him of the Mirrors to be, and one from whose
knightly word he expected to learn whether the enchantment of his lady still continued; inasmuch
as the said vanquished knight was bound, under the penalty of ceasing to be one, to return
and render him an account of what took place between him and her. But Don Quixote was of one
mind, he of the Mirrors of another, for he just then had no thought of anything but finding
some village where he could plaster himself, as has been said already. The history goes on
to say, then, that when the bachelor Samson Carrasco recommended Don Quixote to resume his
knight-errantry which he had laid aside, it was in consequence of having been previously in
conclave with the curate and the barber on the means to be adopted to induce Don Quixote to
stay at home in peace and quiet without worrying himself with his ill-starred adventures; at
which consultation it was decided by the unanimous vote of all, and on the special advice of
Carrasco, that Don Quixote should be allowed to go, as it seemed impossible to restrain him,
and that Samson should sally forth to meet him as a knight-errant, and do battle with him,
for there would be no difficulty about a cause, and vanquish him, that being looked upon as
an easy matter; and that it should be agreed and settled that the vanquished was to be at the
mercy of the victor. Then, Don Quixote being vanquished, the bachelor knight was to command
him to return to his village and his house, and not quit it for two years, or until he received
further orders from him; all which it was clear Don Quixote would unhesitatingly obey, rather
than contravene or fail to observe the laws of chivalry; and during the period of his seclusion
he might perhaps forget his folly, or there might be an opportunity of discovering some ready
remedy for his madness. Carrasco undertook the task, and Tom Cecial, a gossip and neighbour
of Sancho Panza's, a lively, feather-headed fellow, offered himself as his squire. Carrasco
armed himself in the fashion described, and Tom Cecial, that he might not be known by his gossip
when they met, fitted on over his own natural nose the false masquerade one that has been mentioned;
and so they followed the same route Don Quixote took, and almost came up with him in time to
be present at the adventure of the cart of Death and finally encountered them in the grove,
where all that the sagacious reader has been reading about took place; and had it not been
for the extraordinary fancies of Don Quixote, and his conviction that the bachelor was not
the bachelor, senor bachelor would have been incapacitated for ever from taking his degree
of licentiate, all through not finding nests where he thought to find birds.

Tom Cecial, seeing how ill they had succeeded, and what a sorry end their expedition had come
to, said to the bachelor, "Sure enough, Senor Samson Carrasco, we are served right; it is easy
enough to plan and set about an enterprise, but it is often a difficult matter to come well
out of it. Don Quixote a madman, and we sane; he goes off laughing, safe, and sound, and you
are left sore and sorry! I'd like to know now which is the madder, he who is so because he
cannot help it, or he who is so of his own choice?"

To which Samson replied, "The difference between the two sorts of madmen is, that he who is
so will he nil he, will be one always, while he who is so of his own accord can leave off being
one whenever he likes."

"In that case," said Tom Cecial, "I was a madman of my own accord when I volunteered to become
your squire, and, of my own accord, I'll leave off being one and go home."

"That's your affair," returned Samson, "but to suppose that I am going home until I have given
Don Quixote a thrashing is absurd; and it is not any wish that he may recover his senses that
will make me hunt him out now, but a wish for the sore pain I am in with my ribs won't let
me entertain more charitable thoughts."

Thus discoursing, the pair proceeded until they reached a town where it was their good luck
to find a bone-setter, with whose help the unfortunate Samson was cured. Tom Cecial left him
and went home, while he stayed behind meditating vengeance; and the history will return to
him again at the proper time, so as not to omit making merry with Don Quixote now.

CHAPTER XVI.

OF WHAT BEFELL DON QUIXOTE WITH A DISCREET GENTLEMAN OF LA MANCHA

Don Quixote pursued his journey in the high spirits, satisfaction, and self-complacency already
described, fancying himself the most valorous knight-errant of the age in the world because
of his late victory. All the adventures that could befall him from that time forth he regarded
as already done and brought to a happy issue; he made light of enchantments and enchanters;
he thought no more of the countless drubbings that had been administered to him in the course
of his knight-errantry, nor of the volley of stones that had levelled half his teeth, nor of
the ingratitude of the galley slaves, nor of the audacity of the Yanguesans and the shower
of stakes that fell upon him; in short, he said to himself that could he discover any means,
mode, or way of disenchanting his lady Dulcinea, he would not envy the highest fortune that
the most fortunate knight-errant of yore ever reached or could reach.

He was going along entirely absorbed in these fancies, when Sancho said to him, "Isn't it odd,
senor, that I have still before my eyes that monstrous enormous nose of my gossip, Tom Cecial?"

"And dost thou, then, believe, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "that the Knight of the Mirrors was
the bachelor Carrasco, and his squire Tom Cecial thy gossip?"

"I don't know what to say to that," replied Sancho; "all I know is that the tokens he gave
me about my own house, wife and children, nobody else but himself could have given me; and
the face, once the nose was off, was the very face of Tom Cecial, as I have seen it many a
time in my town and next door to my own house; and the sound of the voice was just the same."

"Let us reason the matter, Sancho," said Don Quixote. "Come now, by what process of thinking
can it be supposed that the bachelor Samson Carrasco would come as a knight-errant, in arms
offensive and defensive, to fight with me? Have I ever been by any chance his enemy? Have I
ever given him any occasion to owe me a grudge? Am I his rival, or does he profess arms, that
he should envy the fame I have acquired in them?"

"Well, but what are we to say, senor," returned Sancho, "about that knight, whoever he is,
being so like the bachelor Carrasco, and his squire so like my gossip, Tom Cecial? And if that
be enchantment, as your worship says, was there no other pair in the world for them to take
the likeness of?"

"It is all," said Don Quixote, "a scheme and plot of the malignant magicians that persecute
me, who, foreseeing that I was to be victorious in the conflict, arranged that the vanquished
knight should display the countenance of my friend the bachelor, in order that the friendship
I bear him should interpose to stay the edge of my sword and might of my arm, and temper the
just wrath of my heart; so that he who sought to take my life by fraud and falsehood should
save his own. And to prove it, thou knowest already, Sancho, by experience which cannot lie
or deceive, how easy it is for enchanters to change one countenance into another, turning fair
into foul, and foul into fair; for it is not two days since thou sawest with thine own eyes
the beauty and elegance of the peerless Dulcinea in all its perfection and natural harmony,
while I saw her in the repulsive and mean form of a coarse country wench, with cataracts in
her eyes and a foul smell in her mouth; and when the perverse enchanter ventured to effect
so wicked a transformation, it is no wonder if he effected that of Samson Carrasco and thy
gossip in order to snatch the glory of victory out of my grasp. For all that, however, I console
myself, because, after all, in whatever shape he may have been, I have victorious over my enemy."

"God knows what's the truth of it all," said Sancho; and knowing as he did that the transformation
of Dulcinea had been a device and imposition of his own, his master's illusions were not satisfactory
to him; but he did not like to reply lest he should say something that might disclose his trickery.

As they were engaged in this conversation they were overtaken by a man who was following the
same road behind them, mounted on a very handsome flea-bitten mare, and dressed in a gaban
of fine green cloth, with tawny velvet facings, and a montera of the same velvet. The trappings
of the mare were of the field and jineta fashion, and of mulberry colour and green. He carried
a Moorish cutlass hanging from a broad green and gold baldric; the buskins were of the same
make as the baldric; the spurs were not gilt, but lacquered green, and so brightly polished
that, matching as they did the rest of his apparel, they looked better than if they had been
of pure gold.

When the traveller came up with them he saluted them courteously, and spurring his mare was
passing them without stopping, but Don Quixote called out to him, "Gallant sir, if so be your
worship is going our road, and has no occasion for speed, it would be a pleasure to me if we
were to join company."

"In truth," replied he on the mare, "I would not pass you so hastily but for fear that horse
might turn restive in the company of my mare."

"You may safely hold in your mare, senor," said Sancho in reply to this, "for our horse is
the most virtuous and well-behaved horse in the world; he never does anything wrong on such
occasions, and the only time he misbehaved, my master and I suffered for it sevenfold; I say
again your worship may pull up if you like; for if she was offered to him between two plates
the horse would not hanker after her."

The traveller drew rein, amazed at the trim and features of Don Quixote, who rode without his
helmet, which Sancho carried like a valise in front of Dapple's pack-saddle; and if the man
in green examined Don Quixote closely, still more closely did Don Quixote examine the man in
green, who struck him as being a man of intelligence. In appearance he was about fifty years
of age, with but few grey hairs, an aquiline cast of features, and an expression between grave
and gay; and his dress and accoutrements showed him to be a man of good condition. What he
in green thought of Don Quixote of La Mancha was that a man of that sort and shape he had never
yet seen; he marvelled at the length of his hair, his lofty stature, the lankness and sallowness
of his countenance, his armour, his bearing and his gravity--a figure and picture such as had
not been seen in those regions for many a long day.

Don Quixote saw very plainly the attention with which the traveller was regarding him, and
read his curiosity in his astonishment; and courteous as he was and ready to please everybody,
before the other could ask him any question he anticipated him by saying, "The appearance I
present to your worship being so strange and so out of the common, I should not be surprised
if it filled you with wonder; but you will cease to wonder when I tell you, as I do, that I
am one of those knights who, as people say, go seeking adventures. I have left my home, I have
mortgaged my estate, I have given up my comforts, and committed myself to the arms of Fortune,
to bear me whithersoever she may please. My desire was to bring to life again knight-errantry,
now dead, and for some time past, stumbling here, falling there, now coming down headlong,
now raising myself up again, I have carried out a great portion of my design, succouring widows,
protecting maidens, and giving aid to wives, orphans, and minors, the proper and natural duty
of knights-errant; and, therefore, because of my many valiant and Christian achievements, I
have been already found worthy to make my way in print to well-nigh all, or most, of the nations
of the earth. Thirty thousand volumes of my history have been printed, and it is on the high-road
to be printed thirty thousand thousands of times, if heaven does not put a stop to it. In short,
to sum up all in a few words, or in a single one, I may tell you I am Don Quixote of La Mancha,
otherwise called 'The Knight of the Rueful Countenance;' for though self-praise is degrading,
I must perforce sound my own sometimes, that is to say, when there is no one at hand to do
it for me. So that, gentle sir, neither this horse, nor this lance, nor this shield, nor this
squire, nor all these arms put together, nor the sallowness of my countenance, nor my gaunt
leanness, will henceforth astonish you, now that you know who I am and what profession I follow."

With these words Don Quixote held his peace, and, from the time he took to answer, the man
in green seemed to be at a loss for a reply; after a long pause, however, he said to him, "You
were right when you saw curiosity in my amazement, sir knight; but you have not succeeded in
removing the astonishment I feel at seeing you; for although you say, senor, that knowing who
you are ought to remove it, it has not done so; on the contrary, now that I know, I am left
more amazed and astonished than before. What! is it possible that there are knights-errant
in the world in these days, and histories of real chivalry printed? I cannot realise the fact
that there can be anyone on earth now-a-days who aids widows, or protects maidens, or defends
wives, or succours orphans; nor should I believe it had I not seen it in your worship with
my own eyes. Blessed be heaven! for by means of this history of your noble and genuine chivalrous
deeds, which you say has been printed, the countless stories of fictitious knights-errant with
which the world is filled, so much to the injury of morality and the prejudice and discredit
of good histories, will have been driven into oblivion."

"There is a good deal to be said on that point," said Don Quixote, "as to whether the histories
of the knights-errant are fiction or not."

"Why, is there anyone who doubts that those histories are false?" said the man in green.

"I doubt it," said Don Quixote, "but never mind that just now; if our journey lasts long enough,
I trust in God I shall show your worship that you do wrong in going with the stream of those
who regard it as a matter of certainty that they are not true."

From this last observation of Don Quixote's, the traveller began to have a suspicion that he
was some crazy being, and was waiting him to confirm it by something further; but before they
could turn to any new subject Don Quixote begged him to tell him who he was, since he himself
had rendered account of his station and life. To this, he in the green gaban replied "I, Sir
Knight of the Rueful Countenance, am a gentleman by birth, native of the village where, please
God, we are going to dine today; I am more than fairly well off, and my name is Don Diego de
Miranda. I pass my life with my wife, children, and friends; my pursuits are hunting and fishing,
but I keep neither hawks nor greyhounds, nothing but a tame partridge or a bold ferret or two;
I have six dozen or so of books, some in our mother tongue, some Latin, some of them history,
others devotional; those of chivalry have not as yet crossed the threshold of my door; I am
more given to turning over the profane than the devotional, so long as they are books of honest
entertainment that charm by their style and attract and interest by the invention they display,
though of these there are very few in Spain. Sometimes I dine with my neighbours and friends,
and often invite them; my entertainments are neat and well served without stint of anything.
I have no taste for tattle, nor do I allow tattling in my presence; I pry not into my neighbours'
lives, nor have I lynx-eyes for what others do. I hear mass every day; I share my substance
with the poor, making no display of good works, lest I let hypocrisy and vainglory, those enemies
that subtly take possession of the most watchful heart, find an entrance into mine. I strive
to make peace between those whom I know to be at variance; I am the devoted servant of Our
Lady, and my trust is ever in the infinite mercy of God our Lord."

Sancho listened with the greatest attention to the account of the gentleman's life and occupation;
and thinking it a good and a holy life, and that he who led it ought to work miracles, he threw
himself off Dapple, and running in haste seized his right stirrup and kissed his foot again
and again with a devout heart and almost with tears.

Seeing this the gentleman asked him, "What are you about, brother? What are these kisses for?"

"Let me kiss," said Sancho, "for I think your worship is the first saint in the saddle I ever
saw all the days of my life."

"I am no saint," replied the gentleman, "but a great sinner; but you are, brother, for you
must be a good fellow, as your simplicity shows."

Sancho went back and regained his pack-saddle, having extracted a laugh from his master's profound
melancholy, and excited fresh amazement in Don Diego. Don Quixote then asked him how many children
he had, and observed that one of the things wherein the ancient philosophers, who were without
the true knowledge of God, placed the summum bonum was in the gifts of nature, in those of
fortune, in having many friends, and many and good children.

"I, Senor Don Quixote," answered the gentleman, "have one son, without whom, perhaps, I should
count myself happier than I am, not because he is a bad son, but because he is not so good
as I could wish. He is eighteen years of age; he has been for six at Salamanca studying Latin
and Greek, and when I wished him to turn to the study of other sciences I found him so wrapped
up in that of poetry (if that can be called a science) that there is no getting him to take
kindly to the law, which I wished him to study, or to theology, the queen of them all. I would
like him to be an honour to his family, as we live in days when our kings liberally reward
learning that is virtuous and worthy; for learning without virtue is a pearl on a dunghill.
He spends the whole day in settling whether Homer expressed himself correctly or not in such
and such a line of the Iliad, whether Martial was indecent or not in such and such an epigram,
whether such and such lines of Virgil are to be understood in this way or in that; in short,
all his talk is of the works of these poets, and those of Horace, Perseus, Juvenal, and Tibullus;
for of the moderns in our own language he makes no great account; but with all his seeming
indifference to Spanish poetry, just now his thoughts are absorbed in making a gloss on four
lines that have been sent him from Salamanca, which I suspect are for some poetical tournament."

To all this Don Quixote said in reply, "Children, senor, are portions of their parents' bowels,
and therefore, be they good or bad, are to be loved as we love the souls that give us life;
it is for the parents to guide them from infancy in the ways of virtue, propriety, and worthy
Christian conduct, so that when grown up they may be the staff of their parents' old age, and
the glory of their posterity; and to force them to study this or that science I do not think
wise, though it may be no harm to persuade them; and when there is no need to study for the
sake of pane lucrando, and it is the student's good fortune that heaven has given him parents
who provide him with it, it would be my advice to them to let him pursue whatever science they
may see him most inclined to; and though that of poetry is less useful than pleasurable, it
is not one of those that bring discredit upon the possessor. Poetry, gentle sir, is, as I take
it, like a tender young maiden of supreme beauty, to array, bedeck, and adorn whom is the task
of several other maidens, who are all the rest of the sciences; and she must avail herself
of the help of all, and all derive their lustre from her. But this maiden will not bear to
be handled, nor dragged through the streets, nor exposed either at the corners of the market-places,
or in the closets of palaces. She is the product of an Alchemy of such virtue that he who is
able to practise it, will turn her into pure gold of inestimable worth. He that possesses her
must keep her within bounds, not permitting her to break out in ribald satires or soulless
sonnets. She must on no account be offered for sale, unless, indeed, it be in heroic poems,
moving tragedies, or sprightly and ingenious comedies. She must not be touched by the buffoons,
nor by the ignorant vulgar, incapable of comprehending or appreciating her hidden treasures.
And do not suppose, senor, that I apply the term vulgar here merely to plebeians and the lower
orders; for everyone who is ignorant, be he lord or prince, may and should be included among
the vulgar. He, then, who shall embrace and cultivate poetry under the conditions I have named,
shall become famous, and his name honoured throughout all the civilised nations of the earth.
And with regard to what you say, senor, of your son having no great opinion of Spanish poetry,
I am inclined to think that he is not quite right there, and for this reason: the great poet
Homer did not write in Latin, because he was a Greek, nor did Virgil write in Greek, because
he was a Latin; in short, all the ancient poets wrote in the language they imbibed with their
mother's milk, and never went in quest of foreign ones to express their sublime conceptions;
and that being so, the usage should in justice extend to all nations, and the German poet should
not be undervalued because he writes in his own language, nor the Castilian, nor even the Biscayan,
for writing in his. But your son, senor, I suspect, is not prejudiced against Spanish poetry,
but against those poets who are mere Spanish verse writers, without any knowledge of other
languages or sciences to adorn and give life and vigour to their natural inspiration; and yet
even in this he may be wrong; for, according to a true belief, a poet is born one; that is
to say, the poet by nature comes forth a poet from his mother's womb; and following the bent
that heaven has bestowed upon him, without the aid of study or art, he produces things that
show how truly he spoke who said, 'Est Deus in nobis,' etc. At the same time, I say that the
poet by nature who calls in art to his aid will be a far better poet, and will surpass him
who tries to be one relying upon his knowledge of art alone. The reason is, that art does not
surpass nature, but only brings it to perfection; and thus, nature combined with art, and art
with nature, will produce a perfect poet. To bring my argument to a close, I would say then,
gentle sir, let your son go on as his star leads him, for being so studious as he seems to
be, and having already successfully surmounted the first step of the sciences, which is that
of the languages, with their help he will by his own exertions reach the summit of polite literature,
which so well becomes an independent gentleman, and adorns, honours, and distinguishes him,
as much as the mitre does the bishop, or the gown the learned counsellor. If your son write
satires reflecting on the honour of others, chide and correct him, and tear them up; but if
he compose discourses in which he rebukes vice in general, in the style of Horace, and with
elegance like his, commend him; for it is legitimate for a poet to write against envy and lash
the envious in his verse, and the other vices too, provided he does not single out individuals;
there are, however, poets who, for the sake of saying something spiteful, would run the risk
of being banished to the coast of Pontus. If the poet be pure in his morals, he will be pure
in his verses too; the pen is the tongue of the mind, and as the thought engendered there,
so will be the things that it writes down. And when kings and princes observe this marvellous
science of poetry in wise, virtuous, and thoughtful subjects, they honour, value, exalt them,
and even crown them with the leaves of that tree which the thunderbolt strikes not, as if to
show that they whose brows are honoured and adorned with such a crown are not to be assailed
by anyone."

He of the green gaban was filled with astonishment at Don Quixote's argument, so much so that
he began to abandon the notion he had taken up about his being crazy. But in the middle of
the discourse, it being not very much to his taste, Sancho had turned aside out of the road
to beg a little milk from some shepherds, who were milking their ewes hard by; and just as
the gentleman, highly pleased, was about to renew the conversation, Don Quixote, raising his
head, perceived a cart covered with royal flags coming along the road they were travelling;
and persuaded that this must be some new adventure, he called aloud to Sancho to come and bring
him his helmet. Sancho, hearing himself called, quitted the shepherds, and, prodding Dapple
vigorously, came up to his master, to whom there fell a terrific and desperate adventure.

CHAPTER XVII.

It is to be observed, that on coming to this passage, the author of this veracious history
breaks out into exclamations. "O doughty Don Quixote! high-mettled past extolling! Mirror,
wherein all the heroes of the world may see themselves! Second modern Don Manuel de Leon, once
the glory and honour of Spanish knighthood! In what words shall I describe this dread exploit,
by what language shall I make it credible to ages to come, what eulogies are there unmeet for
thee, though they be hyperboles piled on hyperboles! On foot, alone, undaunted, high-souled,
with but a simple sword, and that no trenchant blade of the Perrillo brand, a shield, but no
bright polished steel one, there stoodst thou, biding and awaiting the two fiercest lions that
Africa's forests ever bred! Thy own deeds be thy praise, valiant Manchegan, and here I leave
them as they stand, wanting the words wherewith to glorify them!"

The cart went its way, and Don Quixote, Sancho, and he of the green gaban went theirs. All
this time, Don Diego de Miranda had not spoken a word, being entirely taken up with observing
and noting all that Don Quixote did and said, and the opinion he formed was that he was a man
of brains gone mad, and a madman on the verge of rationality. The first part of his history
had not yet reached him, for, had he read it, the amazement with which his words and deeds
filled him would have vanished, as he would then have understood the nature of his madness;
but knowing nothing of it, he took him to be rational one moment, and crazy the next, for what
he said was sensible, elegant, and well expressed, and what he did, absurd, rash, and foolish;
and said he to himself, "What could be madder than putting on a helmet full of curds, and then
persuading oneself that enchanters are softening one's skull; or what could be greater rashness
and folly than wanting to fight lions tooth and nail?"

Don Quixote roused him from these reflections and this soliloquy by saying, "No doubt, Senor
Don Diego de Miranda, you set me down in your mind as a fool and a madman, and it would be
no wonder if you did, for my deeds do not argue anything else. But for all that, I would have
you take notice that I am neither so mad nor so foolish as I must have seemed to you. A gallant
knight shows to advantage bringing his lance to bear adroitly upon a fierce bull under the
eyes of his sovereign, in the midst of a spacious plaza; a knight shows to advantage arrayed
in glittering armour, pacing the lists before the ladies in some joyous tournament, and all
those knights show to advantage that entertain, divert, and, if we may say so, honour the courts
of their princes by warlike exercises, or what resemble them; but to greater advantage than
all these does a knight-errant show when he traverses deserts, solitudes, cross-roads, forests,
and mountains, in quest of perilous adventures, bent on bringing them to a happy and successful
issue, all to win a glorious and lasting renown. To greater advantage, I maintain, does the
knight-errant show bringing aid to some widow in some lonely waste, than the court knight dallying
with some city damsel. All knights have their own special parts to play; let the courtier devote
himself to the ladies, let him add lustre to his sovereign's court by his liveries, let him
entertain poor gentlemen with the sumptuous fare of his table, let him arrange joustings, marshal
tournaments, and prove himself noble, generous, and magnificent, and above all a good Christian,
and so doing he will fulfil the duties that are especially his; but let the knight-errant explore
the corners of the earth and penetrate the most intricate labyrinths, at each step let him
attempt impossibilities, on desolate heaths let him endure the burning rays of the midsummer
sun, and the bitter inclemency of the winter winds and frosts; let no lions daunt him, no monsters
terrify him, no dragons make him quail; for to seek these, to attack those, and to vanquish
all, are in truth his main duties. I, then, as it has fallen to my lot to be a member of knight-errantry,
cannot avoid attempting all that to me seems to come within the sphere of my duties; thus it
was my bounden duty to attack those lions that I just now attacked, although I knew it to be
the height of rashness; for I know well what valour is, that it is a virtue that occupies a
place between two vicious extremes, cowardice and temerity; but it will be a lesser evil for
him who is valiant to rise till he reaches the point of rashness, than to sink until he reaches
the point of cowardice; for, as it is easier for the prodigal than for the miser to become
generous, so it is easier for a rash man to prove truly valiant than for a coward to rise to
true valour; and believe me, Senor Don Diego, in attempting adventures it is better to lose
by a card too many than by a card too few; for to hear it said, 'such a knight is rash and
daring,' sounds better than 'such a knight is timid and cowardly.'"

"I protest, Senor Don Quixote," said Don Diego, "everything you have said and done is proved
correct by the test of reason itself; and I believe, if the laws and ordinances of knight-errantry
should be lost, they might be found in your worship's breast as in their own proper depository
and muniment-house; but let us make haste, and reach my village, where you shall take rest
after your late exertions; for if they have not been of the body they have been of the spirit,
and these sometimes tend to produce bodily fatigue."

"I take the invitation as a great favour and honour, Senor Don Diego," replied Don Quixote;
and pressing forward at a better pace than before, at about two in the afternoon they reached
the village and house of Don Diego, or, as Don Quixote called him, "The Knight of the Green Gaban."

CHAPTER XVIII.

OF WHAT HAPPENED DON QUIXOTE IN THE CASTLE OR HOUSE OF THE KNIGHT OF THE GREEN GABAN, TOGETHER
WITH OTHER MATTERS OUT OF THE COMMON

Don Quixote found Don Diego de Miranda's house built in village style, with his arms in rough
stone over the street door; in the patio was the store-room, and at the entrance the cellar,
with plenty of wine-jars standing round, which, coming from El Toboso, brought back to his
memory his enchanted and transformed Dulcinea; and with a sigh, and not thinking of what he
was saying, or in whose presence he was, he exclaimed--

  "O ye sweet treasures, to my sorrow found!
  Once sweet and welcome when 'twas heaven's good-will.

  "O ye Tobosan jars, how ye bring back to my memory the
  sweet object of my bitter regrets!"

The student poet, Don Diego's son, who had come out with his mother to receive him, heard this
exclamation, and both mother and son were filled with amazement at the extraordinary figure
he presented; he, however, dismounting from Rocinante, advanced with great politeness to ask
permission to kiss the lady's hand, while Don Diego said, "Senora, pray receive with your wonted
kindness Senor Don Quixote of La Mancha, whom you see before you, a knight-errant, and the
bravest and wisest in the world."

The lady, whose name was Dona Christina, received him with every sign of good-will and great
courtesy, and Don Quixote placed himself at her service with an abundance of well-chosen and
polished phrases. Almost the same civilities were exchanged between him and the student, who
listening to Don Quixote, took him to be a sensible, clear-headed person.

Here the author describes minutely everything belonging to Don Diego's mansion, putting before
us in his picture the whole contents of a rich gentleman-farmer's house; but the translator
of the history thought it best to pass over these and other details of the same sort in silence,
as they are not in harmony with the main purpose of the story, the strong point of which is
truth rather than dull digressions.

They led Don Quixote into a room, and Sancho removed his armour, leaving him in loose Walloon
breeches and chamois-leather doublet, all stained with the rust of his armour; his collar was
a falling one of scholastic cut, without starch or lace, his buskins buff-coloured, and his
shoes polished. He wore his good sword, which hung in a baldric of sea-wolf's skin, for he
had suffered for many years, they say, from an ailment of the kidneys; and over all he threw
a long cloak of good grey cloth. But first of all, with five or six buckets of water (for as
regard the number of buckets there is some dispute), he washed his head and face, and still
the water remained whey-coloured, thanks to Sancho's greediness and purchase of those unlucky
curds that turned his master so white. Thus arrayed, and with an easy, sprightly, and gallant
air, Don Quixote passed out into another room, where the student was waiting to entertain him
while the table was being laid; for on the arrival of so distinguished a guest, Dona Christina
was anxious to show that she knew how and was able to give a becoming reception to those who
came to her house.

While Don Quixote was taking off his armour, Don Lorenzo (for so Don Diego's son was called)
took the opportunity to say to his father, "What are we to make of this gentleman you have
brought home to us, sir? For his name, his appearance, and your describing him as a knight-errant
have completely puzzled my mother and me."

"I don't know what to say, my son," replied. Don Diego; "all I can tell thee is that I have
seen him act the acts of the greatest madman in the world, and heard him make observations
so sensible that they efface and undo all he does; do thou talk to him and feel the pulse of
his wits, and as thou art shrewd, form the most reasonable conclusion thou canst as to his
wisdom or folly; though, to tell the truth, I am more inclined to take him to be mad than sane."

With this Don Lorenzo went away to entertain Don Quixote as has been said, and in the course
of the conversation that passed between them Don Quixote said to Don Lorenzo, "Your father,
Senor Don Diego de Miranda, has told me of the rare abilities and subtle intellect you possess,
and, above all, that you are a great poet."

"A poet, it may be," replied Don Lorenzo, "but a great one, by no means. It is true that I
am somewhat given to poetry and to reading good poets, but not so much so as to justify the
title of 'great' which my father gives me."

"I do not dislike that modesty," said Don Quixote; "for there is no poet who is not conceited
and does not think he is the best poet in the world."

"There is no rule without an exception," said Don Lorenzo; "there may be some who are poets
and yet do not think they are."

"Very few," said Don Quixote; "but tell me, what verses are those which you have now in hand,
and which your father tells me keep you somewhat restless and absorbed? If it be some gloss,
I know something about glosses, and I should like to hear them; and if they are for a poetical
tournament, contrive to carry off the second prize; for the first always goes by favour or
personal standing, the second by simple justice; and so the third comes to be the second, and
the first, reckoning in this way, will be third, in the same way as licentiate degrees are
conferred at the universities; but, for all that, the title of first is a great distinction."

"So far," said Don Lorenzo to himself, "I should not take you to be a madman; but let us go
on." So he said to him, "Your worship has apparently attended the schools; what sciences have
you studied?"

"That of knight-errantry," said Don Quixote, "which is as good as that of poetry, and even
a finger or two above it."

"I do not know what science that is," said Don Lorenzo, "and until now I have never heard of it."

"It is a science," said Don Quixote, "that comprehends in itself all or most of the sciences
in the world, for he who professes it must be a jurist, and must know the rules of justice,
distributive and equitable, so as to give to each one what belongs to him and is due to him.
He must be a theologian, so as to be able to give a clear and distinctive reason for the Christian
faith he professes, wherever it may be asked of him. He must be a physician, and above all
a herbalist, so as in wastes and solitudes to know the herbs that have the property of healing
wounds, for a knight-errant must not go looking for some one to cure him at every step. He
must be an astronomer, so as to know by the stars how many hours of the night have passed,
and what clime and quarter of the world he is in. He must know mathematics, for at every turn
some occasion for them will present itself to him; and, putting it aside that he must be adorned
with all the virtues, cardinal and theological, to come down to minor particulars, he must,
I say, be able to swim as well as Nicholas or Nicolao the Fish could, as the story goes; he
must know how to shoe a horse, and repair his saddle and bridle; and, to return to higher matters,
he must be faithful to God and to his lady; he must be pure in thought, decorous in words,
generous in works, valiant in deeds, patient in suffering, compassionate towards the needy,
and, lastly, an upholder of the truth though its defence should cost him his life. Of all these
qualities, great and small, is a true knight-errant made up; judge then, Senor Don Lorenzo,
whether it be a contemptible science which the knight who studies and professes it has to learn,
and whether it may not compare with the very loftiest that are taught in the schools."

"If that be so," replied Don Lorenzo, "this science, I protest, surpasses all."

"How, if that be so?" said Don Quixote.

"What I mean to say," said Don Lorenzo, "is, that I doubt whether there are now, or ever were,
any knights-errant, and adorned with such virtues."

"Many a time," replied Don Quixote, "have I said what I now say once more, that the majority
of the world are of opinion that there never were any knights-errant in it; and as it is my
opinion that, unless heaven by some miracle brings home to them the truth that there were and
are, all the pains one takes will be in vain (as experience has often proved to me), I will
not now stop to disabuse you of the error you share with the multitude. All I shall do is to
pray to heaven to deliver you from it, and show you how beneficial and necessary knights-errant
were in days of yore, and how useful they would be in these days were they but in vogue; but
now, for the sins of the people, sloth and indolence, gluttony and luxury are triumphant."

"Our guest has broken out on our hands," said Don Lorenzo to himself at this point; "but, for
all that, he is a glorious madman, and I should be a dull blockhead to doubt it."

Here, being summoned to dinner, they brought their colloquy to a close. Don Diego asked his
son what he had been able to make out as to the wits of their guest. To which he replied, "All
the doctors and clever scribes in the world will not make sense of the scrawl of his madness;
he is a madman full of streaks, full of lucid intervals."

They went in to dinner, and the repast was such as Don Diego said on the road he was in the
habit of giving to his guests, neat, plentiful, and tasty; but what pleased Don Quixote most
was the marvellous silence that reigned throughout the house, for it was like a Carthusian
monastery.

When the cloth had been removed, grace said and their hands washed, Don Quixote earnestly pressed
Don Lorenzo to repeat to him his verses for the poetical tournament, to which he replied, "Not
to be like those poets who, when they are asked to recite their verses, refuse, and when they
are not asked for them vomit them up, I will repeat my gloss, for which I do not expect any
prize, having composed it merely as an exercise of ingenuity."

"A discerning friend of mine," said Don Quixote, "was of opinion that no one ought to waste
labour in glossing verses; and the reason he gave was that the gloss can never come up to the
text, and that often or most frequently it wanders away from the meaning and purpose aimed
at in the glossed lines; and besides, that the laws of the gloss were too strict, as they did
not allow interrogations, nor 'said he,' nor 'I say,' nor turning verbs into nouns, or altering
the construction, not to speak of other restrictions and limitations that fetter gloss-writers,
as you no doubt know."

"Verily, Senor Don Quixote," said Don Lorenzo, "I wish I could catch your worship tripping
at a stretch, but I cannot, for you slip through my fingers like an eel."

"I don't understand what you say, or mean by slipping," said Don Quixote.

"I will explain myself another time," said Don Lorenzo; "for the present pray attend to the
glossed verses and the gloss, which run thus:

Could 'was' become an 'is' for me, Then would I ask no more than this; Or could, for me, the
time that is Become the time that is to be!--

GLOSS

Dame Fortune once upon a day
  To me was bountiful and kind;
  But all things change; she changed her mind,
And what she gave she took away.
O Fortune, long I've sued to thee;
  The gifts thou gavest me restore,
  For, trust me, I would ask no more,
Could 'was' become an 'is' for me.

No other prize I seek to gain,
  No triumph, glory, or success,
  Only the long-lost happiness,
The memory whereof is pain.
One taste, methinks, of bygone bliss
  The heart-consuming fire might stay;
  And, so it come without delay,
Then would I ask no more than this.

I ask what cannot be, alas!
  That time should ever be, and then
  Come back to us, and be again,
No power on earth can bring to pass;
For fleet of foot is he, I wis,
  And idly, therefore, do we pray
  That what for aye hath left us may
Become for us the time that is.

Perplexed, uncertain, to remain
  'Twixt hope and fear, is death, not life;
  'Twere better, sure, to end the strife,
And dying, seek release from pain.
And yet, thought were the best for me.
  Anon the thought aside I fling,
  And to the present fondly cling,
And dread the time that is to be."

When Don Lorenzo had finished reciting his gloss, Don Quixote stood up, and in a loud voice,
almost a shout, exclaimed as he grasped Don Lorenzo's right hand in his, "By the highest heavens,
noble youth, but you are the best poet on earth, and deserve to be crowned with laurel, not
by Cyprus or by Gaeta--as a certain poet, God forgive him, said--but by the Academies of Athens,
if they still flourished, and by those that flourish now, Paris, Bologna, Salamanca. Heaven
grant that the judges who rob you of the first prize--that Phoebus may pierce them with his
arrows, and the Muses never cross the thresholds of their doors. Repeat me some of your long-measure
verses, senor, if you will be so good, for I want thoroughly to feel the pulse of your rare
genius."

Is there any need to say that Don Lorenzo enjoyed hearing himself praised by Don Quixote, albeit
he looked upon him as a madman? power of flattery, how far-reaching art thou, and how wide
are the bounds of thy pleasant jurisdiction! Don Lorenzo gave a proof of it, for he complied
with Don Quixote's request and entreaty, and repeated to him this sonnet on the fable or story
of Pyramus and Thisbe.

SONNET

The lovely maid, she pierces now the wall;
  Heart-pierced by her young Pyramus doth lie;
  And Love spreads wing from Cyprus isle to fly,
A chink to view so wondrous great and small.
There silence speaketh, for no voice at all
  Can pass so strait a strait; but love will ply
  Where to all other power 'twere vain to try;
For love will find a way whate'er befall.
Impatient of delay, with reckless pace
  The rash maid wins the fatal spot where she
Sinks not in lover's arms but death's embrace.
  So runs the strange tale, how the lovers twain
One sword, one sepulchre, one memory,
  Slays, and entombs, and brings to life again.

"Blessed be God," said Don Quixote when he had heard Don Lorenzo's sonnet, "that among the
hosts there are of irritable poets I have found one consummate one, which, senor, the art of
this sonnet proves to me that you are!"

For four days was Don Quixote most sumptuously entertained in Don Diego's house, at the end
of which time he asked his permission to depart, telling him he thanked him for the kindness
and hospitality he had received in his house, but that, as it did not become knights-errant
to give themselves up for long to idleness and luxury, he was anxious to fulfill the duties
of his calling in seeking adventures, of which he was informed there was an abundance in that
neighbourhood, where he hoped to employ his time until the day came round for the jousts at
Saragossa, for that was his proper destination; and that, first of all, he meant to enter the
cave of Montesinos, of which so many marvellous things were reported all through the country,
and at the same time to investigate and explore the origin and true source of the seven lakes
commonly called the lakes of Ruidera.

Don Diego and his son commended his laudable resolution, and bade him furnish himself with
all he wanted from their house and belongings, as they would most gladly be of service to him;
which, indeed, his personal worth and his honourable profession made incumbent upon them.

The day of his departure came at length, as welcome to Don Quixote as it was sad and sorrowful
to Sancho Panza, who was very well satisfied with the abundance of Don Diego's house, and objected
to return to the starvation of the woods and wilds and the short-commons of his ill-stocked
alforjas; these, however, he filled and packed with what he considered needful. On taking leave,
Don Quixote said to Don Lorenzo, "I know not whether I have told you already, but if I have
I tell you once more, that if you wish to spare yourself fatigue and toil in reaching the inaccessible
summit of the temple of fame, you have nothing to do but to turn aside out of the somewhat
narrow path of poetry and take the still narrower one of knight-errantry, wide enough, however,
to make you an emperor in the twinkling of an eye."

In this speech Don Quixote wound up the evidence of his madness, but still better in what he
added when he said, "God knows, I would gladly take Don Lorenzo with me to teach him how to
spare the humble, and trample the proud under foot, virtues that are part and parcel of the
profession I belong to; but since his tender age does not allow of it, nor his praiseworthy
pursuits permit it, I will simply content myself with impressing it upon your worship that
you will become famous as a poet if you are guided by the opinion of others rather than by
your own; because no fathers or mothers ever think their own children ill-favoured, and this
sort of deception prevails still more strongly in the case of the children of the brain."

Both father and son were amazed afresh at the strange medley Don Quixote talked, at one moment
sense, at another nonsense, and at the pertinacity and persistence he displayed in going through
thick and thin in quest of his unlucky adventures, which he made the end and aim of his desires.
There was a renewal of offers of service and civilities, and then, with the gracious permission
of the lady of the castle, they took their departure, Don Quixote on Rocinante, and Sancho
on Dapple.

