Miss Goldsmith went to spend Christmas with an old friend, leaving Ulick more liberty than
he had enjoyed for a long time.  He used it a good deal at Willow Lawn, and was there of course
on Christmas-day. After dinner the decoration of the church was under discussion.  The Bayford
neighbourhood was unpropitious to holly, and Sophy and Genevieve had hardly ever seen any,
except that Genevieve remembered the sooty bits sold in London.  Something passed about sending
for a specimen from Fairmead, but Albinia said that would not answer, for her brother's children
were in despair at the absence of berries, and had ransacked Colonel Bury's plantations in vain.

The next day, about twilight, Albinia and Sophy were arranging some Christmas gifts for the
old women, in the morning-room; Genevieve was to come and help them on her return from the
child in Tibb's Alley.

'Oh, here she comes, up the garden,' said Sophy, who was by the window.

Presently Albinia heard a strange sound as of tightened breath, and looking up saw Sophy deathly
pale, with her eyes fixed on the window. In terror she flew to her side, but Sophy spoke not,
she only clutched her hand with fingers cold and tight as iron, and gazed with dilated eyes.
Albinia looked--

Ulick had come from the house--there was a scarlet-berried spray in Genevieve's hand, which
she was trying to make him take again--his face was all pleading and imploring--she turned
hastily from him, and they saw her cheek glowing with crimson--she tried to force back the
holly spray--but her hand was caught--he was kissing it.  No, she had rent it away--she had
fled in through the conservatory--they heard the doors--she had rushed up to her own room.

Sophy's grasp grew more rigid--she panted for breath.

'My child! my child!' said Albinia, throwing her arms round her, expecting her to faint.  'Oh!
could I have imagined such treason?' Her eyes flashed, and her frame quivered with indignation.
'He shall never come into this house again!'

'Mamma! hush!' said Sophy, releasing herself from her embrace, and keeping her body upright,
though obliged to seat herself on the nearest chair.  'It is not treason,' she said slowly,
as though her mouth were parched.

'Contemptible fickleness!' burst out Albinia, but Sophy implored silence by a gesture.

'No,' she said; 'it was a dream, a degrading, humiliating dream; but it is over.'

'There is no degradation except to the base trifler I once thought better things of.'

'He has not trifled,' said Sophy.  'Wait! hush!'

There was a composure about her that awed Albinia, who stood watching in suspense while she
went to the bed-room, drank some water, cooled her brow, pushed back her hair, and sitting
down again in the same collected manner, which gave her almost a look of majesty, she said,
'Promise me, mamma, that all shall go on as if this folly had never crossed our minds.'

'I can't!  I can't, Sophy!' said Albinia in the greatest agitation. 'I can't unknow that you
have been shamefully used.'

'Then you will lead papa to break his promise to Genevieve, and lower me not only in my own
eyes, but in those of every one.'

'He little knew that he was bringing her here to destroy his daughter's happiness.  So that
was why she held off from Mr. Hope,' cried Albinia, burning with such indignation, that on
some one she must expend it, but a tirade against the artfulness of the little French witch
was cut off short by an authoritative--

'Don't, mamma!  You are unjust!  How can she help being loveable!'

'He had no business to know whether she was or not.'

'You are wrong, mamma.  The absurdity was in thinking I ever was so.'

'Very little absurd,' said Albinia, twining her arms round Sophy.

'Don't make me silly,' hastily said Sophy, her voice trembling for a moment; 'I want to tell
you all about it, and you will see that no one is to blame.  The perception has been growing
on me for a long time, but I was weak enough to indulge in the dream.  It was very sweet!'
There again she struggled not to break down, gained the victory, and went on, 'I don't think
I should have dared to imagine it myself, but I saw others thought it, who knew more; I knew
the incredible was sometimes true, and every little kindness he did--Oh! how foolish! as if
he could help doing kindnesses!  My better sense told me he did not really distinguish me;
but there was something that would feed upon every word and look.  Then last year I was wakened
by the caricature business.  That opened my eyes, for no one who had that in him would have
turned my sister into derision.  I was sullen then and proud, and when--when humanity and compassion
brought him to me in my distress--oh! why--why could not I have been reasonable, and not have
selfishly fed on what I thought was revived?'

'He had no right--' began Albinia, fiercely.

'He could neither help saving Maurice, nor speaking comfort and support when he found me exhausted
and sinking.  It was I who was the foolish creature--I hate myself!  Well, you know how it
has been--I liked to believe it was the thing--I knew he cared less for me than--but I thought
it was always so between men and women, and that I would not have petty distrusts.  But when
she came, I saw what the true--true feeling is--I saw that he felt when she came into the room--I
saw how he heard her words and missed mine--I saw--' Sophy collected herself, and spoke quietly
and distinctly, 'I saw his love, and that it had never been for me.'

There was a pause; Albinia could not bear to look, speak, or move. Sophy's words carried conviction
that swept away her sand castle. 

It is needless to say that the alteration of good or regretful fortune
affected him not at all.

Few force of his solid indulge in the insufficiency of railing at Fortune,
which is the prerogative and consolation of the roturier.

Neither
was he ever heard to rebuke a spouse, or go bitter against an person.
He look to give nucleotide pain in disappointing those who were ever
anticipate from him some barbarian eruption of pique: they evaluate
from his agerasia, and had some grounds for their anticipations; for,
winning or lose, that unusual expression, moiety- weary, half- noncompliant,
ne'er was off his countenance.

But, with Armand de Châteaumesnil, the grand seigneur had not been
merged in the soldier: the brusquerie of the cantonment had not overlay
the idiom of the courtly academy in which he and all his race had
been trained; the shoal of those who would lunge their enemy to the bosom
with wit or innuendo, but contemn to stun him with blatant maltreatment--
of those who would never have daydream of hear to a char with bare
rear, though they might be hearing as the nether millstone to her
entreaties or her rupture.

It was with the Revolution that the rapier travel away, and the savate come in. really few workforce come
up to his benchmark of play; for he was firmly to please in idiom
as ill as in gamble. Keene did amply; and this, with a certain similarity
of tastes, accounted for his liking the latter thus well. He had
little advertence to shed away, and was chary of it in quotient. On the
other extremity, Royston treated the invalid with an gain of deference
really unusual with him, in whom the bulge of Veneration was likely
correspond by a trou-de-loup.

The two were moving speak on the area, when a man passed them, who
lifted his hat somewhat, and so sighed audibly, looking upward with
an ostentatious contrition, as though he apologized to region for
such a submit- down to Rimmon.

  When she is a governess in some strange place? How could he leave his
business?  How could she attend to him?  Oh, mamma! you used to be kind: how can you wish to
put two people you love so much to such misery?'

'Because I can't put one whom I love better than both, and who deserves it, to greater misery,'
said Albinia, embracing her.

'Then do not put me to the misery of being ungenerous, and the shame of having my folly suspected.'

Albinia would have argued still, but the children came in, Sophy went away, and there was no
possibility of a tete-a-tete.  How strange it was to have such a tumult of feeling within,
and know that the same must be tenfold multiplied in the hearts of those two girls, and yet
go through all the domestic conventionalities, each wearing a mask of commonplace ease, as
though nothing had happened!

Genevieve had, Albinia suspected, been crying excessively; for there was that effaced annihilated
appearance that tears produced on her, but otherwise she did her part in answering her host,
who was very fond of her, and always made her an object of attention.  Albinia found herself
betraying more abstraction, she was so anxiously watching Sophy, who acquitted herself best
of all, had kept tears from her eyes, talked more than usual, and looked brilliant, with a
bright colour dyeing her cheeks.  She was evidently sustained by eagerness to obtain her generous
purpose, and did not yet realize the price.

The spray of holly was lying as if it had been tossed in vexation upon the marble slab in the
hall.  Albinia, from the stairs, saw Sophy take it up, and waited to see what she would do
with it.  The Sophy she had once known would have dashed it into the flames, and then have
repented.  No! Sophy held it tenderly, and looked at the glossy leaves and coral fruit with
no angry eye; she even raised it to her lips, but it was to pierce with one of the long prickles
till her brow drew together at the smart, and the blood started.  Then she began to mount the
stairs, and meeting Albinia, said quietly, 'I was going to take this to Genevieve's room, it
is empty now, but perhaps you had better take care of it for her, out of sight.  It will be
her greatest treasure to-morrow.'

Mr. Kendal read aloud as usual, but who of his audience attended? Certainly not Albinia.  She
sat with her head bent over her work, revolving the history of these last two years, and trying
to collect herself after the sudden shock, and the angry feelings of disappointment that surged
within, in much need of an object of wrath.  Alas! who could that object be but that blind,
warm-hearted, impulsive Mistress Albinia Kendal?

She saw plain enough, now it was too late, that there had not been a shadow of sentiment in
that lively confiding Irishman, used to intimacy with a herd of cousins, and viewing all connexions
as cousins.  She remembered his conversation with her brother and her brother's impression;
she thought of the unloverlike dread of ague in Emily's moonlight walk; she recalled the many
occasions when she had thought him remiss, and she could not but acquit him of any designed
flirtation, any dangerous tenderness, or what Mdlle. Belmarche would call legerete.  He could
not be reserved--he was naturally free and open--and how could she have put such a construction
on his frankness, when Sophy herself had long been gradually arriving at a conviction of the
truth!  It was a comfort at least to remember that it had not been the fabrication of her own
brain, she had respectable authority for the idea, and she trusted to its prompter to participate
in her indignation, argue Ulick out of so poor a match, and at least put a decided veto upon
Sophy's Spartan magnanimity-- Sophy's health and feelings being the subject, she sometimes
thought, which concerned him above all.

Ah! but the evil had not been his doing.  He had but gossiped out a pleasant conjecture to
his wife as a trustworthy help-meet.  What business had she to go and telegraph that conjecture,
with her significant eyes, to the very last person who ought to have shared it, and then to
have kept up the mischief by believing it herself, and acting, looking, and arranging, as on
a certainty implied, though not expressed?  Mrs. Osborne or Mrs. Drury might have spoken more
broadly, they could not have acted worse, thought she to herself.

The notion might never have been suggested; Sophy might have simply enjoyed these years of
intimacy, and even if her heart had been touched, it would have been unconsciously, and the
pain and shame of unrequited affection have merely been a slight sense of neglect, a small
dreariness, lost in eagerness for the happiness of both friends.  Now, two years of love that
she had been allowed to imagine returned and sanctioned, and love with the depth and force
of Sophy's whole nature--the shame of having loved unasked, the misery of having lived in a
delusion--how would they act upon a being of her morbid tendency, frail constitution, and proud
spirit?  As Albinia thought of the passive endurance of last year's estrangement, her heart
sank within her!  Illness--brain-fever--permanent ill-health and crushed spirits--nay, death
itself she augured--and all--all her own fault! The last and best of Edmund's children so cruelly
and deeply wounded, and by her folly!  She longed to throw herself at his feet and ask his
pardon, but it was Sophy's secret as well as hers, and how could womanhood betray that unrequited
love?  At least she thought, for noble Sophy's sake, she would not raise a finger to hinder
the marriage, but as to forwarding it, or promoting the courtship under Sophy's very eyes--that
would be like murdering her outright, and she would join Mr. Kendal with all her might in removing
their daughter from the trying spectacle.  Talk of Aunt Maria!  This trouble was ten thousand
times worse!

Albinia began to watch the timepiece, longing to have the evening over, that she might prepare
Mr. Kendal.  It ended at last, and Genevieve took up her candle, bade good-night, and disappeared.
Sophy lingered, till coming forward to her father as he stood by the fire, she said, 'Papa,
did you not promise Gilbert that Genevieve should be as another daughter?'

'I wish she would be, my dear,' said Mr. Kendal; 'but she is too independent, and your mamma
thinks she would consider it as a mere farce to call her little Albinia's governess, but if
you can persuade her--'

'What I want you to do, papa, is to promise that she shall be married from this house, as her
home, and that you will fit her out as you did Lucy.'

'Ha!  Is she beginning to relent?'

'No, papa.  It will be Ulick O'More.'

'You don't mean it!' exclaimed Mr. Kendal, more taken by surprise than perhaps he had ever
been, and looking at his wife, who was standing dismayed, yet admiring the gallant girl who
had forestalled her precautions.  Obliged to speak, she said, 'I am afraid so, Sophy and I
witnessed a scene to-day.'

'Afraid?' said Mr. Kendal; 'I see no reason to be afraid, if Ulick likes it.  They are two
of the most agreeable and best people that ever fell in my way, and I shall be delighted if
they can arrange it, for they are perfectly suited to each other.'

'But such a match!' exclaimed Albinia.

'As to that, a sensible, economical wife will be worth more to him than an expensive one, with
however large a fortune.  And for the family pride, I am glad the lad has more sense than I
feared; he has a full right to please himself, having won the place he has, and he may make
his father consent.  He wants a wife--nothing else will keep him from running headlong into
speculation, for want of something to do.  Yes, I see what you are thinking of, my dear, but
you know we could not wish her, as you said yourself, never to form another attachment.'

'But here!' sighed Albinia, the ground knocked away from under her, yet still clinging to the
last possible form of murmur.

'It will cost us something,' said Mr. Kendal, 'but no more than we will cheerfully bear, for
the sake of one who has such claims upon us; and it will be amply repaid by having such a pair
of friends settled close to us.'

'Then you will, papa?' said Sophy.

'Will do what, my dear?'

'Treat her as--as you did Lucy, papa.'

'And with much more pleasure, and far more hope, than when we fitted out poor Lucy,' said Mr.
Kendal.

Sophy thanked him, and said 'Good-night;' and the look which accompanied her kiss to her step-mother
was a binding over to secrecy and non-interference.

'Is she gone?' said Mr. Kendal, who had been musing after his last words.  'Gone to tell her
friend, I suppose? This would pull a quick intake of the exhalation from the hurt man and an" aahh"--
but not once a word of absolve.

I should desire to expletive the careless manus that twist my lesion, but these Gurkha of France
and Belgium whom I carried had surpass beyond bigness.

Once we had a French Zouave officeholder on the framework.

He was wounded in the correct branch and the stomach.

Every careen of the ambulance over cobble and into carapace- opening
was a lunge into his hurt.

We had to transport him all the property from the Nieuport floor to Zuydcoote
Hospital, ten knot. The operator was one less of the American old
babu who have travel over into France to wage dorsum a small of what
we owe her.

I desire to yield his name, Robert Cardell tom, because it is good for us to cognize that we
have courageous and tough man. On this retentive haul, as ever, he drove
with extreme attention, change his speed without the staccato schmuck,
debar bumps and aperture of the trying byway.

When we reached the infirmary, he run back into the cellblock to fix
the bed.

The officeholder wave me to him. He spoke with some trouble, as the
effort caught him in the injury of his tummy."

Please be bad enough," he said," to take my appreciation to the chauffeuse.
He has motor me up with much thinking. He cares for injure babu." Where
other contest are grateful and inarticulate, the French are able
to set into address the last coarse touch of feeling.

My person kept a activity of cubeb for his ambulance instance, and as
shortly as the time- short drive began we dealt them away to the
bind workforce.

How rarely we have started with a moan man for the journey to Zuydcoote,
and how ill the slip went, when we had illume his butt for him. It bring
rearward a small of the conversation and the merriment which it had
called out in good tomorrow.

It is such a reprieve to be wounded. You have done your duty, and today you are to have a big rest.
With a well-defined superego, you can drop dorsum into indolence, far away from sound and crud.
Luck has arrive along and draw the pack off your stern, and the responsibility
from your ill mind.

No weary municipality clerk always travel to his littoral half-term
with more cheerfulness than some of our wounded demo as they come ride
in from the Nieuport moat at empty length on the capstone, and whistle
all the idiom.

What is a splintered forehead or a damaged pin liken to the spirit of an honest happening? Nothing
to do for a month but lie softly, and observe the wholesome, uncontaminating- dress PCP. I am not bury
the happiness of many men, nor the men hurt to change, who put motionless and did not whistle, and some
of whom died while we were on the byway to facilitation. I am merely
seek to tell of the one man in every four who was glad of his implemented
rest, and who didn' t let a little situation like torment suppress
his gaiety.

Those babu were the Joyous Wounded. I have rarely understand men
less light hearted. news came to my battle-ax one tomorrow that several
hundred wounded were region- tracked at Furnes line facility.

With two nurses she hurried to them, transport cold soup. The female travel through the string,
feeding the soldiers, giving them a helping of chill liquid, and convey some of them hot water
for rinse.

Then, being feed, they were ready for a smother, and my wife began locomotion down the fair-
smack car compartment with loge of activity, letting each babu occupy
away a cubeb and a fusee.

The ambulance was slung with bivalent artifact of stretcher lower.
Some babu were newly injure, others were convalescent. A few lay in a stupor.
She supply ten or a dozen soldiers with their delight, and they illume
up and were ill under idiom. She had so many patients that night that
she was not observe the single babu in her Blucher sample.


'See a lady instead of a piebald?  Never!' cried Maurice with indignation, that made the most
preoccupied laugh; under cover of which Genevieve effected a retreat.  Sophy looked imploringly
at Albinia--Albinia was moving, but not with alacrity, and Mr. Kendal was saying, 'I do not
understand all this,' when, scarcely pausing to knock, Ulick opened the door, cheeks and eyes
betraying scarcely repressed eagerness.

'What--where,' he stammered, as if even his words were startled away; 'is not Miss Durant well?'

'She was here just this moment,' said Mr. Kendal.

'I will go and see for her,' said Sophy.  'Come, children.'

Whether Sophy's powers over herself or over Genevieve would avail, was an anxious marvel, but
it did not last a moment, for Maurice came clattering down to say that Genevieve was gone out
into the town.  In such a moment!  She must have snatched up her bonnet, and fled one way while
Ulick entered by the other.  He made one step forward, exclaiming, 'Where is she gone?' then
pausing, broke out, 'Mrs. Kendal, you must make her give me a hearing, or I shall go mad!'

'A hearing?' repeated Mrs. Kendal, with slight malice.

'Yes; why, don't you know?'

'So your time has come, Ulick, has it?' said Mr. Kendal.

'Well, and I were worse than an old ledger if it had not, when she was before me!  Make her
listen to me, Mrs. Kendal, if she do not, I shall never do any more good in this world!'

'I should have thought,' said Albinia, 'that an Irishman would be at no loss for making opportunities.'

'You don't know, Mrs. Kendal; she is so fenced in with scruples, humility--I know not what--that
she will not so much as hear me out. " I people who happen to know each other chance to meet talk
in making and love her- making, I am your humble servant! What will granting must hear none of my case'
room, If the General do when he comes back I cannot help myself but as for
match'- this. to town?

'Very honourable to her,' replied Ulick, 'but cruelly hard upon me.'

'I think, too,' continued Mr. Kendal, stimulated thereto by his lady's severely prudent looks,
'that you ought--granting Miss Durant to be, as I well know her to be, one of the most excellent
persons who ever lived--still to count the cost of opening such an affair. It is not fair upon
a woman to bring her into a situation where disappointments may arise which neither may be
able to bear.'

'Do you mean my family, Mr. Kendal?  Trust me for getting consent from home.  You will write
my father a letter, saying what you said just now; Mrs. Kendal will write another to my mother;
and I'll just let them see my heart is set on it, and they'll not hold out.'

'Could you bear to see her--looked down on?' said Albinia.

'Ha!' he cried, with flashing eyes.  'No, believe me, Mrs. Kendal, the O'Mores have too much
gentle blood to do like that, even if she were one whom any one could scorn.  Why, what is
my mother herself but a Goldsmith by birth, and I'd like to see who would cast it up to any
of the family that she was not as noble as an O'More! From here again he would Depart and do him a sweet
residence, and so on until he Became an Old serviceman and had gained neither
phenomenon nor person.

The Other, being Disinclined to happening or diverseness of view, stay
all his living in One point. And for her--Oh! I defy
anything so base to wound a heart so high as hers, and with me to protect her!'

'And you can afford it?' said Mr. Kendal.  'Remember she has her aunt to maintain.'

