THE DAY'S WORK - PART I

By RUDYARD KIPLING

CONTENTS

PART I

THE BRIDGE-BUILDERS

A WALKING DELEGATE

THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF

THE TOMB OF HIS ANCESTORS.

THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP SEA

WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR- PART I

WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR - PART II

THE SON OF HIS FATHER

THE BRIDGE-BUILDERS

The least that Findlayson, of the Public Works Department, expected was a C.I.E.; he dreamed
of a C. S. I.  Indeed, his friends told him that he deserved more.  For three years he had
endured heat and cold, disappointment, discomfort, danger, and disease, with responsibility
almost to top-heavy for one pair of shoulders; and day by day, through that time, the great
Kashi Bridge over the Ganges had grown under his charge. Now, in less than three months, if
all went well, his Excellency the Viceroy would open the bridge in state, an archbishop would
bless it, and the first trainload of soldiers would come over it, and there would be speeches.

Findlayson, C. E., sat in his trolley on a construction line that ran along one of the main
revetments - the huge stone-faced banks that flared away north and south for three miles on
either side of the river and permitted himself to think of the end. With its approaches, his
work was one mile and three-quarters in length; a lattice~girder bridge, trussed with the Findlayson
truss standing on seven-and-twenty brick piers. Each one of those piers was twenty-four feet
in diameter, capped with red Agra stone and sunk eighty feet below the shifting sand of the
Ganges' bed.  Above them was a railway-line fifteen feet broad; above that, again, a cart-road
of eighteen feet, flanked with footpaths.  At either end rose towers, of red brick, loopholed
for musketry and pierced for big guns, and the ramp of the road was being pushed forward to
their haunches. The raw earth-ends were crawling and alive with hundreds upon hundreds of tiny
asses climbing out of the yawning borrow-pit below with sackfuls of stuff; and the hot afternoon
air was filled with the noise of hooves, the rattle of the drivers' sticks, and the swish and
roll-down of the dirt.  The river was very low, and on the dazzling white sand between the
three centre piers stood squat cribs of railway~sleepers, filled within and daubed without
with mud, to support the last of the girders as those were riveted up. In the little deep water
left by the drought, an overhead crane travelled to and fro along its spile-pier, jerking sections
of iron into place, snorting and backing and grunting as an elephant grunts in the timberyard.
Riveters by the hundred swarmed about the lattice side-work and the iron roof of the railway
line hung from invisible staging under the bellies of the girders, clustered round the throats
of the piers, and rode on the overhang of the footpath-stanchions; their fire-pots and the
spurts of flame that answered each hammer-stroke showing no more than pale yellow in the sun's
glare. A card was then handed in, inscribed in the neatest, spider-pattern handwriting of Mrs. Flybekin: and they
drove off to pursue the agreeable pastime of shopping and going through part of the list of commissions,
vivenda and agenda, with which they were provided.

As the Flybekins drove along the streets, the words "PATENT FIRE-ESCAPES," in large letters, upon
the front of a tall house, attracted their attention, and roused all their latent fears of London fires, with
accounts of which the newspapers so frequently teemed. A fire-escape
would impart security to sleep, and might be taken down into the country.
Accordingly the check string was pulled, the manufactory entered,
the machines inspected, an economical one selected by each: and in
an hour after their arrival at home to dinner, the fire-escapes were
duly mounted in one of the front bed-room windows.

Their evening meal being finished at the barbarous hour of nine, the
Flybekins began to yawn over the events of the past day, and the prospective
engagements of the morrow.

The excitements of the morning in the crowded London streets, had completely
tired the rustic couple, who being susceptible of no farther excitement,
sought repose at this early hour, and were both soon wrapt in deep
sleep.

Leaving them to enjoy their repose, we return to Grosvenor-square. The noble
pair returned to a family dinner, and on entering the house, read, with
strained eyeballs, the card deposited that morning by the Flybekins,
and with some such an expression of countenance as one may be supposed
to assume in discovering something in a drawer more than was anticipated.
 Hitchcock
felt very old in the crowded experiences of the past three years, that had taught him power
and responsibility.

"You were rather a colt," said Findlayson. "I wonder how you'll like going back to office-work
when this job's over."

"I shall hate it!" said the young man, and as he went on his eye followed Findlayson's, and
he muttered, "Isn't it damned good?"

"I think we'll go up the service together," Findlayson said to himself.  "You're too good a
youngster to waste on another man.  Cub thou wast; assistant thou art.  Personal assistant,
and at Simla, thou shalt be, if any credit comes to me out of the business!"

Indeed, the burden of the work had fallen altogether on Findlayson and his assistant, the young
man whom he had chosen because of his rawness to break to his own needs.  There were labour
contractors by the half-hundred - fitters and riveters, European, borrowed from the railway
workshops, with, perhaps, twenty white and half-caste subordinates to direct, under direction,
the bevies of workmen - but none knew better than these two, who trusted each other, how the
underlings were not to be trusted.  They had been tried many times in sudden crises - by slipping
of booms, by breaking of tackle, failure of cranes, and the wrath of the river - but no stress
had brought to light any man among men whom Findlayson and Hitchcock would have honoured by
working as remorselessly as they worked them-selves. Findlayson thought it over from the beginning:
the months of office-work destroyed at a blow when the Government of India, at the last moment,
added two feet to the width of the bridge, under the impression that bridges were cut out of
paper, and so brought to ruin at least half an acre of calculations- and Hitchcock, new to
disappointment, buried his head in his arms and wept; the heart-breaking delays over the filling
of the contracts in England; the futile correspondences hinting at great wealth of commissions
if one, only one, rather doubtful consignment were passed; the war that followed the refusal;
the careful, polite obstruction at the other end that followed the war, till young Hitchcock,
putting one month's leave to another month, and borrowing ten days from Findlayson, spent his
poor little savings of a year in a wild dash to London, and there, as his own tongue asserted
and the later consignments proved, put the fear of God into a man so great that he feared only
Parliament and said so till Hitchcock wrought with him across his own dinner table, and - he
feared the Kashi Bridge and all who spoke in its name.  Then there was the cholera that came
in the night to the village by the bridge works; and after the cholera smote the small-pox.
The fever they had always with them.  Hitchcock had been appointed a magistrate of the third
class with whipping powers, for the better government of the community, and Findlayson watched
him wield his powers temperately, learning what to overlook and what to look after.  It was
a long, long reverie, and it covered storm, sudden freshets, death in every manner and shape,
violent and awful rage against red tape half frenzying a mind that knows it should be busy
on other things; drought, sanitation, finance; birth, wedding, burial, and riot in the village
of twenty warring castes; argument, expostulation, persuasion, and the blank despair that a
man goes to bed upon, thankful that his rifle is all in pieces in the gun-case. Behind everything
rose the black frame of the Kashi Bridge - plate by plate, girder by girder, span by span -
and each pier of it recalled Hitchcock, the all-round man, who had stood by his chief without
failing from the very first to this last.

So the bridge was two men's work - unless one counted Peroo, as Peroo certainly counted himself.
He was a Lascar, a Kharva from Bulsar, familiar with every port between Rockhampton and London,
who had risen to the rank of serang on the British India boats, but wearying of routine musters
and clean clothes, had thrown up the service and gone inland, where men of his calibre were
sure of employment.  For his knowledge of tackle and the handling of heavy weights, Peroo was
worth almost any price he might have chosen to put upon his services; but custom decreed the
wage of the overhead-men, and Peroo was not within many silver pieces of his proper value.
Neither running water nor extreme heights made him afraid; and, as an ex-serang, he knew how
to hold authority.  No piece of iron was so big or so badly placed that Peroo could not devise
a tackle to lift it - a loose-ended, sagging arrangement, rigged with a scandalous amount of
talking, but perfectly equal to the work in hand. It was Peroo who had saved the girder of
Number Seven pier from destruction when the new wire-rope jammed in the eye of the crane, and
the huge plate tilted in its slings, threatening to slide out sideways.  Then the native workmen
lost their heads with great shoutings, and Hitchcock's right arm was broken by a falling T-plate,
and he buttoned it up in his coat and swooned, and came to and directed for four hours till
Peroo, from the top of the crane, reported "All's well," and the plate swung home. There was
no one like Peroo, serang, to lash, and guy, and hold, to control the donkey-engines, to hoist
a fallen locomotive craftily out of the borrow-pit into which it had tumbled; to strip, and
dive, if need be, to see how the concrete blocks round the piers stood the scouring of Mother
Gunga, or to adventure upstream on a monsoon night and report on the state of the embankment-facings.
He would interrupt the field-councils of Findlayson and Hitchcock without fear, till his wonderful
English, or his still more wonderful lingua franca, half Portuguese and half Malay, ran out
and he was forced to take string and show the knots that he would recommend.  He controlled
his own gang of tackle men - mysterious relatives from Kutch Mandvi gathered month by month
and tried to the uttermost.  No consideration of family or kin allowed Peroo to keep weak hands
or a giddy head on the pay-roll.  "My honour is the honour of this bridge," he would say to
the about-to-be-dismissed.  "What do I care for your honour? Go and work on a steamer.  That
is all you are fit for."

The little cluster of huts where he and his gang lived centred round the tattered dwelling
of a sea-priest - one who had never set foot on black water, but had been chosen as ghostly
counsellor by two generations of sea-rovers all unaffected by port missions or those creeds
which are thrust upon sailors by agencies along Thames bank.  The priest of the Lascars had
nothing to do with their caste, or indeed with anything at all.  He ate the offerings of his
church, and slept and smoked, and slept again, "for," said Peroo, who had haled him a thousand
miles inland, "he is a very holy man.  He never cares what you eat so long as you do not eat
beef, and that is good, because on land we worship Shiva, we Kharvas; but at sea on the Kumpani's
boats we attend strictly to the orders of the Burra Malum [the first mate], and on this bridge
we observe what Finlinson Sahib says."

Finlinson Sahib had that day given orders to clear the scaffolding from the guard-tower on
the right bank, and Peroo with his mates was casting loose and lowering down the bamboo poles
and planks as swiftly as ever they had whipped the cargo out of a coaster.

From his trolley he could hear the whistle of the serang's silver pipe and the creek and clatter
of the pulleys.  Peroo was standing on the top-most coping of the tower, clad in the blue dungaree
of his abandoned service, and as Findlayson motioned to him to be careful, for his was no life
to throw away, he gripped the last pole, and, shading his eyes ship-fashion, answered with
the long-drawn wail of the fo'c'sle lookout:  "Ham dekhta hai" ("I am looking out").  Findlayson
laughed and then sighed.  It was years since he had seen a steamer, and he was sick for home.
As his trolley passed under the tower, Peroo descended by a rope, ape-fashion, and cried: "It
looks well now, Sahib.  Our bridge is all but done.  What think you Mother Gunga will say when
the rail runs over?"

"She has said little so far.  It was never Mother Gunga that delayed us."

"There is always time for her; and none the less there has been delay.  Has the Sahib forgotten
last autumn's flood, when the stone-boats were sunk without warning - or only a half-day's
warning?"

"Yes, but nothing save a big flood could hurt us now.  The spurs are holding well on the West
Bank."

"Mother Gunga eats great allowances.  There is always room for more stone on the revetments.
I tell this to the Chota Sahib "- he meant Hitchcock - "and he laughs."

"No matter, Peroo.  Another year thou wilt be able to build a bridge in thine own fashion."

The Lascar grinned.  "Then it will not be in this way - with stonework sunk under water, as
the Qyetta was sunk.  I like sus-sus-pen-sheen bridges that fly from bank to bank. with one
big step, like a gang-plank.  Then no water can hurt.  When does the Lord Sahib come to open
the bridge?"

"In three months, when the weather is cooler."

"Ho! ho! He is like the Burra Malum. He sleeps below while the work is being done. Then he
comes upon the quarter-deck and touches with his finger, and says: 'This is not clean!  Dam
jibboonwallah!'"

"But the Lord Sahib does not call me a dam jibboonwallah, Peroo."

"No, Sahib; but he does not come on deck till the work is all finished.  Even the Burra Malum
of the Nerbudda said once at Tuticorin -"

"Bah! Go!  I am busy."

"I, also!" said Peroo, with an unshaken countenance.  "May I take the light dinghy now and
row along the spurs?"

"To hold them with thy hands?  They are, I think, sufficiently heavy."

"Nay, Sahib.  It is thus.  At sea, on the Black Water, we have room to be blown up and down
without care.  Here we have no room at all. Look you, we have put the river into a dock, and
run her between stone sills."

Findlayson smiled at the "we."

"We have bitted and bridled her.  She is not like the sea, that can beat against a soft beach.
She is Mother Gunga - in irons."  His voice fell a little.

"Peroo, thou hast been up and down the world more even than I.  Speak true talk, now. How much
dost thou in thy heart believe of Mother Gunga?"

"All that our priest says.  London is London, Sahib.  Sydney is Sydney, and Port Darwin is
Port Darwin.  Also Mother Gunga is Mother Gunga, and when I come back to her banks I know this
and worship.  In London I did poojah to the big temple by the river for the sake of the God
within. .  . .  Yes, I will not take the cushions in the dinghy."

Findlayson mounted his horse and trotted to the shed of a bungalow that he shared with his
assistant.  The place had become home to him in the last three years.  He had grilled in the
heat, sweated in the rains, and shivered with fever under the rude thatch roof; the lime-wash
beside the door was covered with rough drawings and formulae, and the sentry-path trodden in
the matting of the verandah showed where he had walked alone.  There is no eight-hour limit
to an engineer's work, and the evening meal with Hitchcock was eaten booted and spurred: over
their cigars they listened to the hum of the village as the gangs came up from the river-bed
and the lights began to twinkle. 

"Give me back these joys," he exclaimed in agony; "give me that youth
which graced the pursuits of love, and which dignified every enjoyment:
take from me that ambition, which only leads to misery in its failure
and to disappointment in its fulfillment."

CHAPTER III.

Hoffman, the silversmith, whom the count desired to see, was one of those
men who have existed at all times and in all countries, who trade
on the exertions of those who possess more energy and perseverance
than themselves, and who really do seem essential to the great mechanism
of society.

He had from time to time rendered assistance to Dumiger, who, unfortunately
at the present moment owed him a large sum of money, which it would
take a long time to liquidate.

The count also had dealings with the silversmith; for in the quartier Juif
all classes meet and jostle each other.

But Hoffman was a superior man of his order, he knew the secret history
of most of the important burghers, was consulted on many very delicate
subjects, and could have published more scandal than any Sunday Chronicle
of these more modern days.

The count was like all other counts, incessantly in debt; so, when
Hoffman was ordered to attend on the Grand Master, he did not doubt
that the mandate originated in the ordinary necessity, and he prepared
himself accordingly to evade or concede.

Some time previously the count had found it necessary to part with
a great portion of his old family plate, and as it was during the passion
of his son for Marguerite, and after Dumiger had carried off the prize, he
had discovered from the loquacious goldsmith all the particulars relative
to Dumiger, and amongst others the account of his pecuniary obligations,
and that Hoffman had a bond from him for a very large sum in his
possession.

The object of the count's present interview with Hoffman was to know
on what terms he could purchase the bond; and when the jeweler arrived,
the bargain was soon concluded.

Hoffman thought the bond would never be paid, and so the count purchased
it for three times its apparent value.

On the previous evening Dumiger returned flushed and excited to his house.
The moment his friends had left him, he began to regret the confidence
he had placed in them, and the frankness with which he had expressed
himself.

He retained but a very slight recollection of all that he had said,
but he thought it was quite sufficient to have aroused the ridicule
of those around him.

Most
painful of all sensations, the vague sense of a folly committed, the
extent and the consequences of which are alike unknown to us! As
he approached his home it seemed to him that he had profaned his
affection for Marguerite by mentioning her name in that rude society,
and broken her confidence by alluding to his hopes and his fears.

While his secret had been confined to his own breast, or communicated
only to Marguerite, his confidence in himself had never for a moment
been weakened; but now that others were made acquainted with his
convictions and his hopes, they seemed to him exaggerated and unfounded.

He had for a moment forgotten that the chief secret of success in all
undertakings in life is Silence.

Silence in the scheming, silence in the execution, silence in the fulfillment; half the charm that had given
him strength was lost now that he had opened his breast and disclosed
its secrets to others.

And it
was with a feeling approaching to disgust that he entered his workroom, and saw all the material of
his great enterprise scattered about the floor.

He went to Marguerite's room. She was sleeping with all the freshness of
youthful dreams glowing on her cheek; after the tumult of the day
the stillness of that room soothed his spirit.

He reflected how little satisfactory were all these pursuits compared
to the tranquillity of home, but then, even as he sat by the bedside, and
with her hand in his, pondered on the past and future--a pageant
as it were, robed in cloth of gold and purple, and laurel-crowned,
swept by him; and the glory of being preëminent among his fellow-men
flashed upon his soul.

  The gangs poured by in the dusk; men
stopping to knot a loin-cloth or fasten a sandal; gang-foremen shouting to their subordinates
as they ran or paused by the tool-issue sheds for bars and mattocks; locomotives creeping down
their tracks wheel-deep in the crowd; till the brown torrent disappeared into the dusk of the
river-bed, raced over the pilework, swarmed along the lattices, clustered by the cranes, and
stood still - each man in his place.

Then the troubled beating of the gong carried the order to take up everything and bear it beyond
high-water mark, and the flare-lamps broke out by the hundred between the webs of dull iron
as the riveters began a night's work, racing against the flood that was to come.  The girders
of the three centre piers - those that stood on the cribs -were all but in position.  They
needed just as many rivets as could be driven into them, for the flood would assuredly wash
out their supports, and the ironwork would settle down on the caps of stone if they were not
blocked at the ends.  A hundred crowbars strained at the sleepers of the temporary line that
fed the unfinished piers.  It was heaved up in lengths, loaded into trucks, and backed up the
bank beyond flood-level by the groaning locomotives.  The tool-sheds on the sands melted away
before the attack of shouting armies, and with them went the stacked ranks of Government stores,
iron-hound boxes of rivets, pliers, cutters, duplicate parts of the riveting-machines, spare
pumps and chains.  The big crane would be the last to be shifted, for she was hoisting all
the heavy stuff up to the main structure of the bridge.  The concrete blocks on the fleet of
stone-boats were dropped overside, where there was any depth of water, to guard the piers,
and the empty boats themselves were poled under the bridge down-stream.  It was here that Peroo's
pipe shrilled loudest, for the first stroke of the big gong had brought the dinghy back at
racing speed, and Peroo and his people were stripped to the waist, working for the honour and
credit which are better than life.

"I knew she would speak," he cried. "I knew, but the telegraph gives us good warning. O sons
of unthinkable begetting - children of unspeakable shame - are we here for the look of the
thing?"  It was two feet of wire-rope frayed at the ends, and it did wonders as Peroo leaped
from gunnel to gunnel, shouting the language of the sea.

Findlayson was more troubled for the stone boats than anything else.  McCartney, with his gangs,
was blocking up the ends of the three doubtful spans. but boats adrift, if the flood chanced
to be a high one, might endanger the girders; and there was a very fleet in the shrunken channel.

"Get them behind the swell of the guard tower," he shouted down to Peroo.  "It will be dead-water
there.  Get them below the bridge."

"Accha! [Very good.] I know; we are mooring them with wire-rope," was the answer. "Heh! Listen
to the Chota Sahib.  He is working hard."

>From across the river came an almost continuous whistling of locomotives, backed by the rumble
of stone.  Hitchcock at the last minute was spending a few hundred more trucks of Tarakee stone
in reinforcing his spurs and embankments.

"The bridge challenges Mother Gunga," said Peroo, with a laugh.  "But when she talks I know
whose voice will be the loudest."

For hours the naked men worked, screaming and shouting under the lights.  It was a hot, moonless
night; the end of it was darkened by clouds and a sudden squall that made Findlayson very grave.

"She moves!" said Peroo, just before the dawn. "Mother Gunga is awake! Hear!" He dipped his
hand over the side of a boat and the current mumbled on it.  A little wave hit the side of
a pier with a crisp slap.

"Six hours before her time," said Findlayson, mopping his forehead savagely.  "Now we can't
depend on anything. We'd better clear all hands out of the riverbed."

Again the big gong beat, and a second time there was the rushing of naked feet on earth and
ringing iron; the clatter of tools ceased.  In the silence, men heard the dry yawn of water
crawling over thirsty sand.

Foreman after foreman shouted to Findlayson, who had posted himself by the guard-tower, that
his section of the river-bed had been cleaned out, and when the last voice dropped Findlayson
hurried over the bridge till the iron plating of the permanent way gave place to the temporary
plank-walk over the three centre piers, and there he met Hitchcock.

"'All clear your side?" said Findlayson.  The whisper rang in the

box of lattice work.

"Yes, and the east channel's filling now. We're utterly out of our reckoning.  When is this
thing down on us?"

"There's no saying.  She's filling as fast as she can.  Look!"  Findlayson pointed to the planks
below his feet, where the sand, burned and defiled by months of work, was beginning to whisper
and fizz.

"What orders?" said Hitchcock.

"Call the roll - count stores  sit on your hunkers - and pray for the bridge.  That's all I
can think of Good night.  Don't risk your life trying to fish out anything that may go downstream."

"Oh, I'll be as prudent as you are!  'Night. Heavens, how she's filling!  Here's the rain in
earnest.

Findlayson picked his way back to his bank, sweeping the last of McCartney's riveters before
him. The gangs had spread themselves along the embankments, regardless of the cold rain of
the dawn, and there they waited for the flood. Only Peroo kept his men together behind the
swell of the guard-tower, where the stone-boats lay tied fore and aft with hawsers, wire-rope,
and chains.

A shrill wail ran along the line, growing to a yell, half fear and half wonder: the face of
the river whitened from bank to hank between the stone facings, and the far-away spurs went
out in spouts of foam.  Mother Gunga had come bank-high in haste, and a wall of chocolate-coloured
water was her messenger.  There was a shriek above the roar of the water, the complaint of
the spans coming down on their blocks as the cribs were whirled out from under their bellies.
The stone-boats groaned and ground each other in the eddy that swung round the abutment, and
their clumsy masts rose higher and higher against the dim sky-line.

"Before she was shut between these walls we knew what she would do.  Now she isthus cramped
God only knows what she will do!" said Peroo, watching the furious turmoil round the guard~tower.
"Ohe'! Fight, then! Fight hard, for it is thus that a woman wears herself out."

But Mother Gunga would not fight as Peroo desired. After the first down-stream plunge there
came no more walls of water, but the river lifted herself bodily, as a snake when she drinks
in midsummer, plucking and fingering along the revetments, and banking up behind the piers
till even Findlayson began to recalculate the strength of his work.

When day came the village gasped. "Only last night," men said, turning to each other, "it was
as a town in the river-bed! Look now!"

And they looked and wondered afresh at the deep water, the racing water that licked the throat
of the piers.  The farther bank was veiled by rain, into which the bridge ran out and vanished;
the spurs up-stream were marked by no more than eddies and spoutings, and down-stream the pent
river, once freed of her guide-lines, had spread like a sea to the horizon. Then hurried by,
rolling in the water, dead men and oxen together, with here and there a patch of thatched roof
that melted when it touched a pier.

"Big flood," said Peroo, and Findlayson nodded.  It was as big a flood as he had any wish to
watch. His bridge would stand what was upon her now, but not very much more, and if by any
of a thousand chances there happened to be a weakness in the embankments, Mother Gunga would
carry his honour to the sea with the other raffle. Worst of all, there was nothing to do except
to sit still; and Findlayson sat still under his macintosh till his helmet became pulp on his
head, and his boots were over-ankle in mire. He took no count of time, for the river was marking
the hours, inch by inch and foot by foot, along the embankment, and he listened, numb and hungry,
to the straining of the stone-boats, the hollow thunder under the piers, and the hundred noises
that make the full note of a flood.  Once a dripping servant brought him food, but he could
not eat; and once he thought that he heard a faint toot from a locomotive across the river,
and then he smiled. The bridge's failure would hurt his assistant not a little, hut Hitchcock
was a young man with his big work yet to do. For himself the crash meant everything - everything
that made a hard life worth the living. They would say, the men of his own profession . . .
he remembered the half-pitying things that he himself had said when Lockhart's new waterworks
burst and broke down in brick-heaps and sludge, and Lockhart's spirit broke in him and he died.
He remembered what he himself had said when the Sumao Bridge went out in the big cyclone by
the sea; and most he remembered poor Hartopp's face three weeks later, when the shame had marked
it.  His bridge was twice the size of Hartopp's, and it carried the Findlayson truss as well
as the new pier-shoe - the Findlayson bolted shoe. There were no excuses in his service. Government
might listen, perhaps, but his own kind would judge him by his bridge, as that stood or fell.
He went over it in his head, plate by plate, span by span, brick by brick, pier by pier, remembering,
comparing, estimating, and recalculating, lest there should be any mistake; and through the
long hours and through the flights of formulae that danced and wheeled before him a cold fear
would come to pinch his heart. His side of the sum was beyond question; but what man knew Mother
Gunga's arithmetic? Even as he was making all sure by the multiplication table, the river might
be scooping a pot-hole to the very bottom of any one of those eighty-foot piers that carried
his reputation.  Again a servant came to him with food, but his mouth was dry, and he could
only drink and return to the decimals in his brain. And the river was still rising. Peroo,
in a mat shelter coat, crouched at his feet, watching now his face and now the face of the
river, but saying nothing.

At last the Lascar rose and floundered through the mud towards the village, but he was careful
to leave an ally to watch the boats.

Presently he returned, most irreverently driving before him the priest of his creed - a fat
old man, with a grey beard that whipped the wind with the wet cloth that blew over his shoulder.
Never was seen so lamentable a guru.

"What good are offerings and little kerosene lamps and dry grain," shouted Peroo, "if squatting
in the mud is all that thou canst do?  Thou hast dealt long with the Gods when they were contented
and well-wishing.  Now they are angry. Speak to them!"

"What is a man against the wrath of Gods?" whined the priest, cowering as the wind took him.
"Let me go to the temple, and I will pray there."

"Son of a pig, pray here! Is there no return for salt fish and curry powder and dried onions?
Call aloud! Tell Mother Gunga we have had enough. Bid her be still for the night. I cannot
pray, but I have been serving in the Kumpani's boats, and when men did not obey my orders I
-"  A flourish of the wire-rope colt rounded the sentence, and the priest, breaking free from
his disciple, fled to the village.

"Fat pig!" said Peroo. "After all that we have done for him! When the flood is down I will
see to it that we get a new guru. Finlinson Sahib, it darkens for night now, and since yesterday
nothing has been eaten. Be wise, Sahib. No man can endure watching and great thinking on an
empty belly.  Lie down, Sahib.  The river will do what the river will do.""The bridge is mine;
I cannot leave it."

"Wilt thou hold it up with thy hands, then?" said Peroo, laughing. "I was troubled for my boats
and sheers before the flood came.  Now we are in the hands of the Gods. The Sahib will not
eat and lie down? Take these, then. They are meat and good toddy together, and they kill all
weariness, besides the fever that follows the rain. I have eaten nothing else to-day at all."

He took a small tin tobacco-box from his sodden waist-belt and thrust it into Findlayson's
hand, saying: "Nay, do not be afraid.  It is no more than opium - clean Malwa opium.

Findlayson shook two or three of the dark-brown pellets into his hand, and hardly knowing what
he did, swallowed them. The stuff was at least a good guard against fever -the fever that was
creeping upon him out of the wet mud -and he had seen what Peroo could do in the stewing mists
of autumn on the strength of a dose from the tin box.

Peroo nodded with bright eyes.  "In a little - in a little the Sahib will find that he thinks
well again. I too will -" He dived into his treasure-box, resettled the rain-coat over his
head, and squatted down to watch the boats.  It was too dark now to see beyond the first pier,
and the night seemed to have given the river new strength. Findlayson stood with his chin on
his chest, thinking.  There was one point about one of the piers - the seventh - that he had
not fully settled in his mind.  The figures would not shape themselves to the eye except one
by one and at enormous intervals of time.  There was a sound rich and mellow in his ears like
the deepest note of a double-bass - an entrancing sound upon which he pondered for several
hours, as it seemed. Then Peroo was at his elbow, shouting that a wire hawser had snapped and
the stone-boats were loose.  Findlayson saw the fleet open and swing out fanwise to a long-drawn
shriek of wire straining across gunnels.

"A tree hit them. They will all go," cried Peroo. "The main hawser has parted. What does the
Sahib do?"

An immensely complex plan had suddenly flashed into Findlayson's mind.  He saw the ropes running
from boat to boat in straight lines and angles - each rope a line of white fire. But there
was one rope which was the master rope. He could see that rope.  If he could pull it once,
it was absolutely and mathematically certain that the disordered fleet would reassemble itself
in the backwater behind the guard-tower.  But why, he wondered, was Peroo clinging so desperately
to his waist as he hastened down the bank? It was necessary to put the Lascar aside, gently
and slowly, because it was necessary to save the boats, and, further, to demonstrate the extreme
ease of the problem that looked so difficult.  And then - but it was of no conceivable importance
-  a wire-rope raced through his hand, burning it, the high bank disappeared,  and with it
all the slowly dispersing factors of the problem. He was sitting in the rainy darkness - sitting
in a boat that spun like a top, and Peroo was standing over him.

"I had forgotten," said the Lascar, slowly, "that to those fasting and unused, the opium is
worse than any wine. Those who die in Gunga go to the Gods. Still, I have no desire to present
myself before such great ones. Can the Sahib swim?"

"What need? He can fly - fly as swiftly as the wind," was the thick answer.

"He is mad!" muttered Peroo, under his breath. "And he threw me aside like a bundle of dung-cakes.
Well, he will not know his death. The boat cannot live an hour here even if she strike nothing.
It is not good to look at death with a clear eye."

He refreshed himself again from the tin box, squatted down in the bows of the reeling, pegged,
and stitched craft, staring through the mist at the nothing that was there.  A warm drowsiness
crept over Findlayson, the Chief Engineer, whose duty was with his bridge. The heavy raindrops
struck him with a thousand tingling little thrills, and the weight of all time since time was
made hung heavy on his eyelids. He thought and perceived that he was perfectly secure, for
the water was so solid that a man could surely step out upon it, and, standing still with his
legs apart to keep his balance - this was the most important point - would be borne with great
and easy speed to the shore. But yet a better plan came to him.  It needed only an exertion
of will for the soul to hurl the body ashore as wind drives paper, to waft it kite-fashion
to the bank. Thereafter - the boat spun dizzily - suppose the high wind got under the freed
body?  Would it tower up like a kite and pitch headlong on the far-away sands, or would it
duck about, beyond control, through all eternity? Findlayson gripped the gunnel to anchor himself,
for it seemed that he was on the edge of taking the flight before he had settled all his plans.
Opium has more effect on the white man than the black. Peroo was only comfortably indifferent
to accidents. "She cannot live," he grunted. "Her seams open already. If she were even a dinghy
with oars we could have ridden it out; but a box with holes is no good. Finlinson Sahib, she
fills."

"Accha! I am going away. Come thou also." In his mind, Findlayson had already escaped from
the boat, and was circling high in air to find a rest for the sole of his foot. His body -
he was really sorry for its gross helplessness - lay in the stern, the water rushing about
its knees.

"How very ridiculous!" he said to himself from his eyrie -" that - is Findlayson -  chief of
the Kashi Bridge. The poor beast is going to be drowned, too. Drowned when it's close to shore.
I'm - I'm on shore already. Why doesn't it come along?"

To his intense disgust, he found his soul back in his body again, and that body spluttering
and choking in deep water. The pain of the reunion was atrocious, but it was necessary, also,
to fight for the body. He was conscious of grasping wildly at wet sand, and striding prodigiously,
as one strides in a dream, to keep foothold in the swirling water, till at last he hauled himself
clear of the hold of the river, and dropped, panting, on wet earth.

"Not this night," said Peroo, in his ear. "The Gods have protected us."  The Lascar moved his
feet cautiously, and they rustled among dried stumps. "This is some island of last year's indigo-crop,"
he went on. "We shall find no men here; but have great care, Sahib; all the snakes of a hundred
miles have been flooded out.  Here comes the lightning, on the heels of the wind. Now we shall
be able to look; but walk carefully."

Findlayson was far and far beyond any fear of snakes, or indeed any merely human emotion. He
saw, after he had rubbed the water from his eyes, with an immense clearness, and trod, so it
seemed to himself with world-encompassing strides.  Somewhere in the night of time he had built
a bridge - a bridge that spanned illimitable levels of shining seas; but the Deluge had swept
it away, leaving this one island under heaven for Findlayson and his companion, sole survivors
of the breed of Man.

An incessant lightning, forked and blue, showed all that there was to be seen on the little
patch in the flood - a clump of thorn, a clump of swaying creaking bamboos, and a grey gnarled
peepul overshadowing a Hindoo shrine, from whose dome floated a tattered red flag. The holy
man whose summer resting-place it was had long since abandoned it, and the weather had broken
the red-daubed image of his god.  The two men stumbled, heavy-limbed and heavy-eyed, over the
ashes of a brick-set cooking-place, and dropped down under the shelter of the branches, while
the rain and river roared together.

The stumps of the indigo crackled, and there was a smell of cattle, as a huge and dripping
Brahminee bull shouldered his way under the tree. The flashes revealed the trident mark of
Shiva on his flank, the insolence of head and hump, the luminous stag-like eyes, the brow crowned
with a wreath of sodden marigold blooms, and the silky dewlap that almost swept the ground.
There was a noise behind him of other beasts coming up from the flood-line through the thicket,
a sound of heavy feet and deep breathing.

"Here be more beside ourselves," said Findlayson, his head against the tree pole, looking through
half-shut eyes, wholly at ease.

"Truly," said Peroo, thickly, "and no small ones."

"What are they, then? I do not see clearly."

"The Gods. Who else? Look!"

"Ah, true! The Gods surely - the Gods." Findlayson smiled as his head fell forward on his chest.
Peroo was eminently right.  After the Flood, who should be alive in the land except the Gods
that made it - the Gods to whom his village prayed nightly - the Gods who were in all men's
mouths and about all men's ways. He could not raise his head or stir a finger for the trance
that held him, and Peroo was smiling vacantly at the lightning.

The Bull paused by the shrine, his head lowered to the damp earth. A green Parrot in the branches
preened his wet wings and screamed against the thunder as the circle under the tree filled
with the shifting shadows of beasts. There was a black Buck at the Bull's heels-such a Buck
as Findlayson in his far-away life upon earth might have seen in dreams - a Buck with a royal
head, ebon back, silver belly, and gleaming straight horns.  Beside him, her head bowed to
the ground, the green eyes burning under the heavy brows, with restless tail switching the
dead grass, paced a Tigress, full-bellied and deep-jowled.

The Bull crouched beside the shrine, and there leaped from the darkness a monstrous grey Ape,
who seated himself man-wise in the place of the fallen image, and the rain spilled like jewels
from the hair of his neck and shoulders.Other shadows came and went behind the circle, among
them a drunken Man flourishing staff and drinking-bottle. The modern equivalent of the "bum" is
an HE shell.

The first recorded use of explosive shells was by the Venetians in 1376. Their
bombs were hemispheres of stone or bronze, joined together with
hoops and exploded by means of a primitive powder fuze. Shells filled
with explosive or incendiary mixtures were standard for mortars, after
1550, but they did not come into general use for flat-trajectory
weapons until early in the nineteenth century, whereafter the term
"shell" gradually won out over "bomb."

In
any event, this projectile was one of the most effective ever used
in the smoothbore against earthworks, buildings, and for general bombardment.
A delayed action shell, diabolically timed to roll amongst the ranks
with its fuze burning, was calculated to "disorder the stoutest men,"
since they could not know at what awful instant the bomb would burst.

A bombshell was simply a hollow, cast-iron sphere.

It had a single hole where the powder was funneled in--full, but not
enough to pack too tightly when the fuze was driven in. Until the
1800's, the larger bombs were not always smooth spheres, but had either
a projecting neck, or collar, for the fuze hole or a pair of rings
at each side of the hole for easier handling (fig. 41).

In later years, however, such projections were replaced by two "ears,"
little recesses beside the fuze hole.

A pair of tongs (something like ice tongs) seized the shell by the ears
and lifted it up to the gun bore.

During most of the eighteenth century, shells were cast thicker at the
base than at the fuze hole on the theory that they were (1) better
able to resist the shock of firing from the cannon and (2) more likely
to fall with the heavy part underneath, leaving the fuze uppermost
and less liable to extinguishment.

Müller scoffed at the idea of "choaking" a fuze, which, he said,
burnt as well in water as in any other element.

Furthermore, he preferred to use shells "everywhere equally thick,
because they would then burst into a greater number of pieces."

In later years, the shells were scored on the interior to ensure their
breaking into many fragments.

FUZES

The eighteenth century fuze was a wooden tube several inches long, with a
powder composition tamped into its hole much like the nineteenth century
fuze (fig. 42c). The hole was only a quarter of an inch in diameter, but the
head of the fuze was hollowed out like a cup, and "mealed" (fine) powder,
moistened with "spirits of wine"

(alcohol), was pressed into the hollow to make a larger igniting
surface.

To time the fuze, a cannoneer cut the cylinder at the proper length
with his fuze-saw, or drilled a small hole (G) where the fire could
flash out at the right time.

Some English fuzes at this period were also made by drawing two strands
of a quick match into the hole, instead of filling it with powder
composition.

The ends of the match were crossed into a sort of rosette at the head
of the fuze.

Paper caps to protect the powder composition covered the heads of these
fuzes and had to be removed before the shell was put into the gun.

Bombs were not filled with powder very long before use, and fuzes were
not put into the projectiles until the time of firing. To force the
fuze into the hole of the shell, the cannoneer covered the fuze head
with tow, put a fuze-setter on it, and hammered the setter with a
mallet, "drifting" the fuze until the head stuck out of the shell
only 2/10 of an inch.

If the fuze had to be withdrawn, there was a fuze extractor for the job.
This tool gripped the fuze head tightly, and turning a screw slowly pulled
out the fuze.

Wooden tube fuzes were used almost as long as the spherical shell.

A United States 12-inch mortar fuze (fig. 42c), 7 inches long and
burning 49 seconds, was much like the earlier fuze.

During the 1800's, however, other types came into wide use.

The conical paper-case fuze (fig. 42d), inserted in a metal or wooden
plug that fitted the fuze hole, contained composition whose rate of
burning was shown by the color of the paper.

A black fuze burned an inch every 2 seconds.

Red burned 3 seconds, green 4, and yellow 5 seconds per inch.

Paper fuzes were 2 inches long, and could be cut shorter if necessary.
Since firing a shell from a 24-pounder to burst at 2,000 yards meant
a time flight of 6 seconds, a red fuze would serve without cutting,
or a green fuze could be cut to 1-1/2 inches.

Sea-coast fuzes of similar type were used in the 15-inch Rodmans until
these big smoothbores were finally discarded sometime after 1900.

The Bormann fuze (fig. 42a), the quickest of the oldtimers to set,
was used for many years by the U. S. Field Artillery in spherical
shell and shrapnel.

Its pewter case, which screwed into the shell, contained a time ring of
powder composition (A). Over this ring the top of the fuze case was
marked in seconds.

To set the fuze, the gunner merely had to cut the case at the proper
mark--at four for 4 seconds, three for 3 seconds, and so on--to expose
the ring of powder to the powder blast of the gun.

The ring burned until it reached the zero end and set off the fine powder
in the center of the case; the powder flash then blew out a tin plate in
the bottom of the fuze and ignited the shell charge.

Its short burning time (about 6 seconds) made the Bormann fuze obsolete
as field gun ranges increased.

The main trouble with this fuze, however, was that it did not always
ignite!

The percussion fuze was an extremely important development of the
nineteenth century, particularly for the long-range rifles.

The shock of impact caused this fuze to explode the shell at almost the instant of striking. Percussion fuzes
were made in two general types: the front fuze, for the nose of an
elongated projectile; and the base fuze, at the center of the projectile
base.

The base fuze was used with armor-piercing projectiles where it was
desirable to have the shell penetrate the target for some distance
before bursting.

Both types were built on the same principles.

A Hotchkiss front percussion fuze (fig. 42e) had a brass case which
screwed into the shell.

Inside the case was a plunger (A) containing a priming charge of powder, topped
with a cap of fulminate. A brass wire at the base of the plunger was
a safety device to keep the cap away from a sharp point at the top
of the fuze until the shell struck the target.

When the gun was fired, the shock of discharge dropped a lead plug (B) from the base of the fuze
into the projectile cavity, permitting the plunger to drop to the
bottom of the fuze and rest there, held by the spread wire, while
the shell was in flight.

Upon impact, the plunger was thrown forward, the cap struck the point and ignited
the priming charge, which in turn fired the bursting charge of the
shell.

SCATTER PROJECTILES

When one of our progenitors wrathfully seized a handful of pebbles and flung them at the flock of birds
in his garden, he discovered the principle of the scatter projectile. Perhaps its simplest application
was in the stone mortar (fig. 43).

For this weapon, round stones about the size of a man's fist (and, by 1750, hand grenades) were dumped
into a two-handled basket and let down into the bore. This primitive charge was used at close range against
personnel in a fortification, where the effect of the descending projectiles
would be uncommonly like a short but severe barrage of over-sized
hailstones.

There were 6,000 stones in the ammunition inventory for Castillo de
San Marcos in 1707.

One of the earliest kinds of scatter projectiles was case shot, or
canister, used at Constantinople in 1453.

The name comes from its case, or can, usually metal, which was filled
with scrap, musket balls, or slugs (fig. 41). Somewhat similar, but with
larger iron balls and no metal case, was grape shot, so-called from
the grape-like appearance of the clustered balls.

A stand of grape in the 1700's consisted of a wooden disk at the base
of a short wooden rod that served as the core around which the balls stood
(fig. 41). The whole assembly was bagged in cloth and reinforced with a
net of heavy cord.

In later years grape was made by bagging two or three tiers of balls, each tier separated by an iron
disk.

Grape could disable men at almost 900 yards and was much used during
the 1700's. Eventually, it was almost replaced by case shot, which
was more effective at shorter ranges (400 to 700 yards).

Incidentally, there were 2,000 sacks of grape at the Castillo in 1740, more than any other type
projectile.

Spherical case shot (fig. 41) was an attempt to carry the effectiveness
of grape and canister beyond its previous range, by means of a bursting
shell.

It was the forerunner of the shrapnel used so much in World War I and
was invented by Lt. Henry Shrapnel, of the British Army, in 1784.
There had been previous attempts to produce a projectile of this kind,
such as the German Zimmerman's "hail shot" of 1573--case shot with a bursting
charge and a primitive time fuze--but Shrapnel's invention was the
first air-bursting case shot which, in technical words, "imparted
directional velocity" to the bullets it contained.

Shrapnel's new shell was first used against the French in 1808, but was not
called by its inventor's name until 1852.

INCENDIARIES AND CHEMICAL PROJECTILES

Incendiary missiles, such as buckets or barrels filled with a fiercely
burning composition, had been used from earliest times, long before
cannon.

These crude incendiaries survived through the 1700's as, for instance,
the flaming cargoes of fire ships that were sent amidst the enemy fleet.
But in the year 1672 there appeared an iron shell called a carcass
(fig. 41), filled with pitch and other materials that burned at intense
heat for about 8 minutes.

The flame escaped through vents, three to five in number, around
the fuze hole of the shell.

The carcass was standard ammunition until smoothbores went out of use. The United States ordnance
manual of 1861 lists carcasses for 12-, 18-, 24-, 32-, and 42-pounder
guns as well as 8-, 10-, and 13-inch mortars.

During the late 1500's, the heating of iron cannon balls to serve
as incendiaries was suggested, but not for another 200 years was the
idea successfully carried out.

Hot shot was nothing but round shot, heated to a red glow over a grate
or in a furnace.

It was fired from cannon at such inflammable targets as wooden ships
or powder magazines. During the siege of Gibraltar in 1782, the English
fired and destroyed a part of Spain's fleet with hot shot; and in
United States seacoast forts shot furnaces were standard equipment
during the first half of the 1800's. The little shot furnace at Castillo
de San Marcos National Monument was built during the 1840's; a giant
furnace of 1862 still remains at Fort Jefferson National Monument.

Few other examples are left.

Loading hot shot was not particularly dangerous.

After the powder charge was in the gun with a dry wad in front of it, another wad of wet straw, or clay,
was put into the barrel. When the cherry-red shot was rammed home, the wet wad prevented a premature
explosion of the charge. According to the Ordnance Manual, the shot could
cool in the gun without setting off the charge!

Hot shot was superseded, about 1850, by Martin's shell, filled with
molten iron.

The smoke shell appeared in 1681, but was never extensively used. Similarly,
a form of gas projectile, called a "stink shell," was invented by a
Confederate officer during the Civil War.

Because of its "inhumanity," and probably because it was not thought
valuable enough to offset its propaganda value to the enemy, it was
not popular.

These were the beginnings of the modern chemical shells.

In connection with chemical warfare, it is of interest to review the
Hussite siege of Castle Karlstein, near Prague, in the first quarter
of the fifteenth century.

The Hussites emplaced 46 small cannon, 5 large cannon, and 5 catapults.

The big guns would shoot once or twice a day, and the little ones from
six to a dozen rounds.

Marble pillars from Prague churches furnished the cannonballs. Many
projectiles for the catapults, however, were rotting carcasses and
other filth, hurled over the castle walls to cause disease and break
the morale of the besieged.

But the intrepid defenders neutralized these "chemical bursts" with lime
and arsenic.

After firing 10,930 cannonballs, 932 stone fragments, 13 fire barrels,
and 1,822 tons of filth, the Hussites gave up.

FIXED AMMUNITION

In early days, due partly to the roughly made balls, wads were very
important as a means of confining the powder and increasing its efficiency.

Wads could be made of almost any suitable material at hand, but perhaps
straw or hay ones were most common. The hay was first twisted into
a 1-inch rope, then a length of the rope was folded together several
times and finally rolled up into a short cylinder, a little larger
than the bore.

After the handier sabots came into use, however, wads were needed
only to keep the ball from rolling out when the muzzle was down, or
for hot shot firing.

Gunners early began to consolidate ammunition for easier and quicker
loading. For instance, after the powder charge was placed in a bag,
the next logical step was to attach the wad and the cannonball to
it, so that loading could be made in one simple operation--pushing
the single round into the bore (fig. 48).

Toward that end, the sabot or "shoe" (fig. 41) took the place of the wad. The sabot was a wooden
disk about the same diameter as the shot.

It was secured to the ball with a pair of metal straps to make "semi-fixed" ammunition;
then, if the neck of the powder bag were tied around the sabot, the
result was one cartridge, containing powder, sabot, and ball, called
"fixed" ammunition.

Fixed ammunition was usual for the lighter field pieces by the end of
the 1700's, while the bigger guns used "semi-fixed."

In transportation, cartridges were protected by cylinders and caps of strong
paper. Sabots were sometimes made of paper, too, or of compressed
wood chips, to eliminate the danger of a heavy, unbroken sabot falling
amongst friendly troops.

A big mortar sabot was a lethal projectile in itself!

ROCKETS

Today's rocket projectiles are not exactly new inventions. About the time of
artillery's beginning, the military fireworker came into the business
of providing pyrotechnic engines of war; later, his job included the
spectacular fireworks that were set off in celebration of victory
or peace.

Artillery manuals of very early date include chapters on the
manufacture and use of fireworks. But in making war rockets there was
no marked progress until the late eighteenth century. About 1780, the
British Army in India watched the Orientals use them; and within
the next quarter century William Congreve, who set about the task of producing
a rocket that would carry an incendiary or explosive charge as far as
2 miles, had achieved such promising results that English boats fired rocket
salvos against Boulogne in 1806, The British Field Rocket Brigade
used rockets effectively at Leipsic in 1812--the first time they
appeared in European land warfare.

They were used again 2 years later at Waterloo. The warheads of such rockets
were cast iron, filled with black powder and fitted with percussion
fuzes.

They were fired from trough-like launching stands, which were
adjustable for elevation.

Rockets seem to have had a demoralizing effect upon untrained troops, and
perhaps their use by the English against raw American levies at Bladenburg,
in 1814, contributed to the rout of the United States forces and
the capture of Washington.

They also helped to inspire Francis Scott Key.

Whether or not he understands the technical characteristics of the
rocket, every schoolboy remembers the "rocket's red glare" of the National Anthem,
wherein Key recorded his eyewitness account of the bombardment of
Fort McHenry.

The U. S. Army in Mexico (1847) included a rocket battery, and, indeed, war
rockets were an important part of artillery resources until the rapid
progress of gunnery in the latter 1800's made them obsolescent.

TOOLS

Gunner's equipment was numerous. There were the tompion (a lid that fitted
over the muzzle of the gun to keep wind and weather out of the bore)
and the lead cover for the vent; water buckets for the sponges and
passing boxes for the powder; scrapers and tools for "searching" the
bore to find dangerous cracks or holes; chocks for the wheels; blocks
and rollers, lifting jacks, and gins for moving guns; and drills and
augers for clearing the vent (figs.

17, 44).

But among the most important
tools for everyday firing were the following:

The sponge was a wooden
cylinder about a foot long, the same diameter as the shot, and covered
with lambskin.

Like all bore tools, it was mounted on a long staff; after being dampened
with water, it was used for cleaning the bore of the piece after firing. Essentially,
sponging made sure there were no sparks in the bore when the new
charge was put in. Often the sponge was on the opposite end of the
rammer, and sometimes, instead of being lambskin-covered, the sponge
was a bristle brush.

The wormer was a double screw, something like a pair of intertwined
corkscrews, fixed to a long handle.

Inserted in the gun bore and twisted, it seized and drew out wads or
the remains of cartridge bags stuck in the gun after firing.

Worm screws were sometimes mounted
in the head of the sponge, so that the piece could be sponged and wormed
at the same time.

The ladle was the most important of all the gunner's tools in the
early years, since it was not only the measure for the powder but
the only way to dump the powder in the bore at the proper place.

It was generally made of copper, the same
gauge as the windage of the gun; that is, the copper was just thick enough
to fit between ball and bore.

Essentially, the ladle is merely a scoop, a metal cylinder secured to
a wooden disk on a long staff.

But before the introduction of the
powder cartridge, cutting a ladle to the right size was one of the
most important accomplishments a gunner had to learn.

Collado,
that Spanish mathematician of the sixteenth century, used the culverin
ladle as the master pattern (fig. 45). It was 4-1/2 calibers long and
would carry exactly the weight of the ball in powder. Ladles for lesser
guns could be proportioned (that is, shortened) from the master pattern.

The
ladle full of powder was pushed home in the bore. Turning the handle
dumped the charge, which then had to be packed with the rammer. As
powder charges were lessened in later years, the ladle was shortened;
by 1750, it was only three shot diameters long.

With cartridges, the ladle
was no longer needed for loading the gun, but it was still handy for
withdrawing the round.

The rammer was a wooden cylinder about the same diameter and length
as the shot. It pushed home the powder charge, the wad, and the shot.
As a precaution against faulty or double loading, marks on the rammer handle
showed the loaders when the different parts of the charge were properly
seated.

The gunner's pick or priming wire was a sharp pointed tool resembling
a common ice pick blade.

It was used to clear the vent of the gun and to pierce
the powder bag so that flame from the primer could ignite the charge.

Handspikes
were big pinch bars to manhandle cannon.

They were used to move the carriage
and to lift the breech of the gun so that the elevating quoin or screw
might be adjusted. They were of different types (figs. 33a, 44),
but were essentially 6-foot-long wooden poles, shod with iron.

Some of them, like
the Marsilly handspike (fig. 11), had rollers at the toe so that the wheelless
rear of the carriage could be lifted with the handspike and rolled with
comparative ease.

The gunner's quadrant (fig. 46), invented by Tartaglia about 1545,
was an aiming device so basic that its principle is still in use today.
The instrument looked like a carpenter's square, with a quarter-circle
connecting the two arms.

From the angle of the
square dangled a plumb bob. The gunner laid the long arm of the quadrant
in the bore of the gun, and the line of the bob against the graduated
quarter-circle showed the gun's angle of elevation.

The addition of the quadrant to the art of artillery opened a whole new
field for the mathematicians, who set about compiling long, complicated,
and jealously guarded tables for the gunner's guidance.

But the theory was simple: since a cannon
at 45° elevation would fire ten times farther than it would when
the barrel was level (at zero° elevation), the quadrant should be marked
into ten equal parts; the range of the gun would therefore increase
by one-tenth each time the gun was elevated to the next mark on the
quadrant.



"Whither went they -" said the Lascar, awe-struck, shivering a little with the cold.

"God knows!" said Findlayson. The river and the island lay in full daylight now, and there
was never mark of hoof or pug on the wet earth under the peepul. Only a parrot screamed in
the branches, bringing down showers of water-drops as he fluttered his wings.

"Up! We are cramped with cold! Has the opium died out?  Canst thou move, Sahib?"

Findlayson staggered to his feet and shook himself. His bead swam and ached, but the work of
the opium was over, and, as he sluiced his forehead in a pool, the Chief Engineer of the Kashi
Bridge was wondering how he had managed to fall upon the island, what chances the day offered
of return, and, above all, how his work stood.

"Peroo, I have forgotten much I was under the guard-tower watching the river; and then ---
Did the flood sweep us away?"

"No. The boats broke loose, Sahib, and" (if the Sahib had forgotten about the opium, decidedly
Peroo would not remind him) "in striving to retie them, so it seemed to me but it was dark
- a rope caught the Sahib and threw him upon a boat.  Considering that we two, with Hitchcock
Sahib, built, as it were, that bridge, I came also upon the boat, which came riding on horseback,
as it were, on the nose of this island, and so, splitting, cast us ashore. I made a great cry
when the boat left the wharf and without doubt Hitchcock Sahib will come for us. As for the
bridge, so many have died in the building that it cannot fall."A fierce sun, that drew out
all the smell of the sodden land, had followed the storm, and in that clear light there was
no room for a man to think of the dreams of the dark. Findlayson stared upstream, across the
blaze of moving water, till his eyes ached. There was no sign of any bank to the Ganges, much
less of a bridge-line.

"We came down far," he said. "It was wonderful that we were not drowned a hundred times."

"That was the least of the wonder, for no man dies before his time.  I have seen Sydney, I
have seen London, and twenty great ports, but "- Peroo looked at the damp, discoloured shrine
under the peepul -" never man has seen that we saw here."

What?"

"Has the Sahib forgotten; or do we black men only see the Gods?"

"There was a fever upon me." Findlayson was still looking uneasily across the water.  "It seemed
that the island was full of beasts and men talking, but I do not remember. A boat could live
in this water now, I think."

"Oho! Then it is true. 'When Brahm ceases to dream, the Gods die.' Now I know, indeed, what
he meant. Once, too, the guru said as much to me; but then I did not understand. Now I am wise.

"What?" said Findlayson, over his shoulder.

Peroo went on as if he were talking to himself "Six - seven - ten monsoons since, I was watch
on the fo'c'sle of the Rewah - the Kumpani's big boat - and there was a big tufan; green and
black water beating, and I held fast to the life-lines, choking under the waters. Then I thought
of the Gods - of Those whom we saw to-night "- he stared curiously at Findlayson's back, but
the white man was looking across the flood. "Yes, I say of Those whom we saw this night past,
and I called upon Them to protect me. And while I prayed, still keeping my lookout, a big wave
came and threw me forward upon the ring of the great black bow-anchor, and the Rewah rose high
and high, leaning towards the left-hand side, and the water drew away from beneath her nose,
and I lay upon my belly, holding the ring, and looking down into those great deeps. Then I
thought, even in the face of death: If I lose hold I die, and for me neither the Rewah nor
my place by the galley where the rice is cooked, nor Bombay, nor Calcutta,nor even London,
will be any more for me. 'How shall I be sure,' I said,  'that the Gods to whom I pray will
abide at all?' This I thought, and the Rewah dropped her nose as a hammer falls, and all the
sea came in and slid me backwards along the fo'c'sle and over the break of the fo'c'sle, and
I very badly bruised my shin against the donkey-engine: but I did not die, and I have seen
the Gods.  They are good for live men, but for the dead . . . .  They have spoken Themselves.
Therefore, when I come to the village I will beat the guru for talking riddles which are no
riddles.  When Brahm ceases to dream the Gods go."

"Look up-stream. The light blinds. Is there smoke yonder?"

Peroo shaded his eyes with his hands. "He is a wise man and quick.  Hitchcock Sahib would not
trust a rowboat.  He has borrowed the Rao Sahib's steam-launch, and comes to look for us. 
I have always said that there should have been a steam-launch on the bridge works for us.

The territory of the Rao of Baraon lay within ten miles of the bridge; and Findlayson and Hitchcock
had spent a fair portion of their scanty leisure in playing billiards and shooting blackbuck
with the young man.  He had been bearled by an English tutor of sporting tastes for some five
or six years, and was now royally wasting the revenues accumulated during his minority by the
Indian Government. His steam-launch, with its silver-plated rails, striped silk awning, and
mahogany decks, was a new toy which Findlayson had found horribly in the way when the Rao came
to look at the bridge works.

"It's great luck," murmured Findlayson, but he was none the less afraid, wondering what news
might be of the bridge.

The gaudy blue-and-white funnel came downstream swiftly.  They could see Hitchcock in the bows,
with a pair of opera-glasses, and his face was unusually white. Then Peroo hailed, and the
launch made for the tail of the island. The Rao Sahib, in tweed shooting-suit and a seven-hued
turban, waved his royal hand, and Hitchcock shouted. But he need have asked no questions, for
Findlayson's first demand was for his bridge.

"All serene! 'Gad, I never expected to see you again, Findlayson. You're seven koss downstream.
Yes; there's not a stone shifted anywhere; but how are you? I borrowed the Rao Sahib's launch,
and he was good enough to come along. Jump in."Ah, Finlinson, you are very well, eh? That was
most unprecedented calamity last night, eh? My royal palace, too, it leaks like the devil,
and the crops will also be short all about my country. Now you shall back her out, Hitchcock.
I - I do not understand steam-engines. You are wet? You are cold, Finlinson? I have some things
to eat here, and you will take a good drink."

"I'm immensely grateful, Rao Sahib. I believe you've saved my life.  How did Hitchcock -"

"Oho! His hair was upon end. He rode to me in the middle of the night and woke me up in the
arms of Morpheus. I was most truly concerned, Finlinson, so I came too. My head-priest he is
very angry just now. We will go quick, Mister Hitchcock. I am due to attend at twelve forty-five
in the state temple, where we sanctify some new idol. If not so I would have asked you to spend
the day with me. They are dam-bore, these religious ceremonies, Finlinson, eh?"

Peroo, well known to the crew, had possessed himself of the inlaid wheel, and was taking the
launch craftily up-stream. But while he steered he was, in his mind, handling two feet of partially
untwisted wire-rope; and the back upon which he beat was the back of his guru.

End of THE BRIDGE-BUILDERS

A WALKING DELEGATE

ACCORDING to the custom of Vermont, Sunday afternoon is salting-time on the farm, and, unless
something very important happens, we attend to the salting ourselves.  Dave and Pete, the red
oxen, are treated first; they stay in the home meadow ready for work on Monday.  Then come
the cows, with Pan, the calf, who should have been turned into veal long ago, but survived
on account of his manners; and lastly the horses, scattered through the seventy acres of the
Back Pasture.

You must go down by the brook that feeds the clicking, bubbling water-ram; up through the sugar-bush,
where the young maple undergrowth closes round you like a shallow sea; next follow the faint
line of an old county-road running past two green hollows fringed with wild rose that mark
the cellars of two ruined houses; then by Lost Orchard, where nobody ever comes except in cider-time;
then across another brook, and so into the Back Pasture.  Half of it is pine and hemlock and
Spruce, with sumach and little juniper bushes, and the other half is grey rock and boulder
and moss, with green streaks of brake and swamp; but the horses like it well enough - our own,
and the others that are turned down there to feed at fifty cents a week.  Most people walk
to the Back Pasture, and find it very rough work; but one can get there in a buggy, if the
horse knows what is expected of him.  The safest conveyance is our coupe. This began life as
a buckboard, and we bought it for five dollars from a sorrowful man who had no other sort of
possessions; and the seat came off one night when we were turning a corner in a hurry.  After
that alteration it made a beautiful salting-machine, if you held tight, because there was nothing
to catch your feet when you fell out, and the slats rattled tunes.

One Sunday afternoon we went out with the salt as usual.  It was a broiling hot day, and we
could not find the horses anywhere till we let Tedda Gabler, the bobtailed mare who throws
up the dirt with her big hooves exactly as a tedder throws hay, have her head.  Clever as she
is, she tipped the coupe over in a hidden brook before she came out on a ledge of rock where
all the horses had gathered, and were switching flies. The Deacon was the first to call to
her.  He is a very dark iron-grey four-year-old, son of Grandee. He has been handled since
he was two, was driven in a light cart before he was three, and now ranksas an absolutely steady
lady's horse - proof against steam-rollers, grade-crossings, and street processions.

"Salt!" said the Deacon, joyfully.  "You're dreffle late, Tedda."

"Any - any place to cramp the coupe?" Tedda panted.  "It weighs turr'ble this weather. I'd
'a' come sooner, but they didn't know what they wanted - ner haow. Fell out twice, both of
'em.  I don't understand sech foolishness."

"You look consider'ble het up. 'Guess you'd better cramp her under them pines, an' cool off
a piece."

Tedda scrambled on the ledge, and cramped the coupe in the shade of a tiny little wood of pines,
while my companion and I lay down among the brown, silky needles, and gasped. All the home
horses were gathered round us, enjoying their Sunday leisure.

There were Rod and Rick, the seniors on the farm.  They were the regular road-pair, bay with
black points, full brothers, aged, sons of a Hambletonian sire and a Morgan dam.  There were
Nip and Tuck, seal-browns, rising six, brother and sister, Black Hawks by birth, perfectly
matched, just finishing their education, and as handsome a pair as man could wish to find in
a forty-mile drive.  There was Muldoon, our ex-car-horse, bought at a venture, and any colour
you choose that is not white; and Tweezy, who comes from Kentucky, with an affliction of his
left hip, which makes him a little uncertain how his hind legs are moving.  He and Muldoon
had been hauling gravel all the week for our new road.  The Deacon you know already.  Last
of all, and eating something, was our faithful Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, the black buggy-horse,
who had seen us through every state of weather and road, the horse who was always standing
in harness before some door or other - a philosopher with the appetite of a shark and the manners
of an archbishop. Tedda Gabler was a new "trade,"with a reputation for vice which was really
the result of bad driving.  She had one working gait, which she could hold till further notice;
a Roman nose; a large, prominent eye; a shaving-brush of a tail; and an irritable temper. 
She took her salt through her bridle; but the others trotted up nuzzling and wickering for
theirs, till we emptied it on the clean rocks.  They were all standing at ease, on three legs
for the most part, talking the ordinary gossip of the Back Pasture - about the scarcity of
water, and gaps in the fence, and how the early windfalls tasted that season - when little
Rick blew the last few grains of his allowance into a crevice, and said:

"Hurry, boys!  'Might ha' knowed that livery plug would be around."

We heard a clatter of hooves, and there climbed up from the ravine below a fifty-center transient--a
wall-eyed, yellow frame-house of a horse, sent up to board from a livery-stable in town, where
they called him "The Lamb," and never let him out except at night and to strangers. My companion,
who knew and had broken most of the horses, looked at the ragged hammer-head as it rose, and
said quietly:

"Ni-ice beast. Man-eater, if he gets the chance - see his eye. Kicker, too - see his hocks.
Western horse."

The animal lumbered up, snuffling and grunting.  His feet showed that he had not worked for
weeks and weeks, and our creatures drew together significantly.

"As usual," he said, with an underhung sneer-"bowin' your heads before the Oppressor that comes
to spend his leisure gloatin' over you."

"Mine's done," said the Deacon; he licked up the remnant of his salt, dropped his nose in his
master's hand, and sang a little grace all to himself.  The Deacon has the most enchanting
manners of any one I know.

"An' fawnin' on them for what is your inalienable right. It's humiliatin'," said the yellow
horse, sniffing to see if he could find a few spare grains.

"Go daown hill, then, Boney," the Deacon replied.  "Guess you'll find somethin' to eat still,
if yer hain't hogged it all. You've ett more'n any three of us to-day - an' day 'fore that
- an' the last two months - sence you've been here."

"I am not addressin' myself to the young an' immature.  I am speakin' to those whose opinion
an' experience commands respect."

I saw Rod raise his head as though he were about to make a remark; then he dropped it again,
and stood three-cornered, like a plough-horse.  Rod can cover his mile in a shade under three
minutes on an ordinary road to an ordinary buggy. He is tremendously powerful behind, but,
like most Hambletonians, he grows a trifle sullen as he gets older.  No one can love Rod very
much; but no one can help respecting him.

"I wish to wake those," the yellow horse went on, "to an abidin' sense o' their wrongs an'
their injuries an' their outrages."

"Haow's that?" said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, dreamily. He thought Boney was talking of some
kind of feed.

"An' when I say outrages and injuries" - Boney waved his tail furiously  "I mean 'em, too.
Great Oats! That's just what I do mean, plain an' straight."

"The gentleman talks quite earnest," said Tuck, the mare, to Nip, her brother.There's no doubt
thinkin' broadens the horizons o' the mind. His language is quite lofty."

"Hesh, sis," Nip answered.  "He hain't widened nothin' 'cep' the circle he's ett in pasture.
They feed words fer beddin' where he comes from."

"It's elegant talkin', though," Tuck returned, with an unconvinced toss of her pretty, lean
little head.

The yellow horse heard her, and struck an attitude which he meant to be extremely impressive.
It made him look as though he had been badly stuffed.

"Now I ask you, I ask you without prejudice an' without favour,-what has Man the Oppressor
ever done for you? - Are you not inalienably entitled to the free air O' heaven, blowin' acrost
this boundless prairie?"

"Hev ye ever wintered here?" said the Deacon, merrily, while the others snickered.  "It's kinder
cool."

"Not yet," said Boney.  "I come from the boundless confines o' Kansas, where the noblest of
our kind have their abidin'-place among the sunflowers on the threshold o' the settin' sun
in his glory."

"An' they sent you ahead as a sample ~" said Rick, with an amused quiver of his long, beautifully
groomed tail, as thick and as fine and as wavy as a quadroon's back hair.

"Kansas, sir, needs no advertisement.  Her native sons rely on themselves an' their native
sires.  Yes, sir."

Then Tweezy lifted up his wise and polite old head.  His affliction makes him bashful as a
rule, but he is ever the most courteous of horses.

"Excuse me, suh," he said slowly, "but, unless I have been misinfohmed, most of your prominent
siahs, suh, are impo'ted from Kentucky; an' I'm from Paduky."

There was the least little touch of pride in the last words.

"Any horse dat knows beans," said Muldoon, suddenly (he had been standing with his hairy chin
on Tweezy's broad quarters), "gits outer Kansas 'fore dey crip his shoes.  I blew in dere from
Ioway in de days o' me youth an' innocence, an' I wuz grateful when dey boxed me fer N' York.
You can't tell me anything about Kansas I don't wanter fergit.  De Belt Line stables ain't
no Hoffman House, but dey're Vanderbilts 'longside ' Kansas."

"What the horses o' Kansas think to-day, the horses of America will think to-morrow; an' I
tell you that when the horses of America rise in their might, the day o' the Oppressor is ended."

There was a pause, till Rick said, with a little grunt:

"Ef you put it that way, every one of us has riz in his might, 'cep' Marcus, mebbe.  Marky,
'j ever rise in yer might?"

"Nope," said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, thoughtfully quidding over a mouthful of grass. "I
seen a heap o' fools try, though."

"You admit that you riz ~" said the Kansas horse, excitedly. "Then why - why in Kansas did
you ever go under again?"

"'Horse can't walk on his hind legs all the time," said the Deacon.

"Not when he's jerked over on his back 'fore he knows what fetched him. We've all done it,
Boney," said Rick. "Nip an' Tuck they tried it, spite o' what the Deacon told 'em; an' the
Deacon he tried it, spite o' what me an' Rod told him; an' me an' Rod tried it, spite o' what
Grandee told us; an' I guess Grandee he tried it, spite Oo' what his dam told him. It's the
same old circus from generation to generation. 'Colt can't see why he's called on to back.
Same old rearm' on end - straight up. Same old feelin' that you've bested 'em this time. Same
old little yank at your mouth when you're up good an' tall. Same old Pegasus-act, wonderin'
where you'll 'light. Same old wop when you hit the dirt with your head where your tail should
be, and your in'ards shook up like a bran-mash. Same old voice in your ear: 'Waal, ye little
fool, an' what did you reckon to make by that?' We're through with risin in our might on this
farm. We go to pole er single, accordin' ez we're hitched."

"An' Man the Oppressor sets an' gloats over you, same as he's settin' now. Hain't that been
your experience, madam?"

This last remark was addressed to Tedda; and any one could see with half an eye that poor,
old anxious, fidgety Tedda, stamping at the flies, must have left a wild and tumultuous youth
behind her.

"'Pends on the man," she answered, shifting from one foot to the other, and addressing herself
to the home horses. "They abused me dreffle when I was young. I guess I was sperrity an' nervous
some, but they didn't allow for that.'Twas in Monroe County, Noo York, an' sence then till
I come here, I've run away with more men than 'u'd fill a boardin'-house. Why, the man that
sold me here he says to the boss, s' he:  'Mind, now, I've warned you.  'Twon't be none of
my fault if she sheds you daown the road.  Don't you drive her in a top-buggy, ner 'thout winkers,'
s' he, 'ner 'thought this bit ef you look to come home behind her.' 'N' the fust thing the
boss did was to git the top-buggy.

"Can't say as I like top-buggies," said Rick; "they don't balance good."

"Suit me to a ha'ar," said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus.  "Top-buggy means the baby's in behind,
an' I kin stop while she gathers the pretty flowers - yes, an' pick a maouthful, too. The women-folk
all say I hev to be humoured, an' -I don't kerry things to the sweatin'-point."

"'Course I've no prejudice against a top-buggy s' long 's I can see it," Tedda went on quickly.
"It's ha'f-seein' the pesky thing bobbin' an' balancn' behind the winkers gits on my nerves.
Then the boss looked at the bit they'd sold with me, an' s' he: 'Jiminy Christmas!  This 'u'd
make a clothes-horse Stan' 'n end!' Then he gave me a plain bar bit, an' fitted it 's if there
was some feelin' to my maouth."

"Hain't ye got any, Miss Tedda?" said Tuck, who has a mouth like velvet, and knows it.

"Might 'a' had, Miss Tuck, but I've forgot. Then he give me an open bridle,- my style's an
open bridle - an' - I dunno as I ought to tell this by rights -he -give - me - a kiss."

"My!" said Tuck, "I can't tell fer the shoes o' me what makes some men so fresh."

"Pshaw, sis," said Nip, "what's the sense in actin' so? You git a kiss reg'lar 's hitchin'-up
time."

"Well, you needn't tell, smarty," said Tuck, with a squeal and a kick.

"I'd heard o' kisses, o' course," Tedda went on, "but they hadn't come my way specially.  I
don't mind tellin' I was that took aback at that man's doin's he might ha' lit fire-crackers
on my saddle. Then we went out jest 's if a kiss was nothin', an' I wasn't three strides into
my gait 'fore I felt the boss knoo his business, an' was trustin' me. So I studied to please
him, an' whenever took the whip from the dash - a whip drives me plumb distracted - an' the
upshot was that - waal, I've come up the Back Pasture to-day, an' the coupe's tipped clear
over twice, an' I've waited till 'twuz fixed each time. You kin judge for yourselves. I don't
set up to be no better than my neighbours,- specially with my tail snipped off the way 'tis,-
but I want you all to know Tedda's quit fightin' in harness or out of it, 'cep' when there's
a born fool in the pasture, stuffin' his stummick with board that ain't rightly hisn, 'cause
he hain't earned it."

"Meanin' me, madam?" said the yellow horse.

 "Ef the shoe fits, clinch it," said Tedda, snorting. "I named no
names, though, to be sure, some folks are mean enough an' greedy
enough to do 'thout 'em."

"There's a deal to be forgiven to ignorance," said the yellow horse, with an ugly look in his
blue eye.

"Seemin'ly, yes; or some folks 'u'd ha' been kicked raound the pasture 'bout onct a minute
sence they came - board er no board."

"But what you do not understand, if you will excuse me, madam, is that the whole principle
o' servitood, which includes keep an' feed, starts from a radically false basis; an' I am proud
to say that me an' the majority o' the horses o' Kansas think the entire concern should be
relegated to the limbo of exploded superstitions. I say we're too progressive for that. I say
we're too enlightened for that. 'Twas good enough 's long 's we didn't think, but naow - but
naow - a new loominary has arisen on the horizon!"

"Meanin' you?" said the Deacon.

"The horses o' Kansas are behind me with their multitoodinous thunderin' hooves, an' we say,
simply but grandly, that we take our stand with all four feet on the inalienable rights of
the horse, pure and simple,- the high-toned child o' nature, fed by the same wavin' grass,
cooled by the same ripplin' brook-- yes, an' warmed by the same gen'rous sun as falls impartially
on the outside an' the inside of the pampered machine o' the trottin'-track, or the bloated
coupe-horses o' these yere Eastern cities. Are we not the same flesh an' blood?"

"Not by a bushel an' a half," said the Deacon, under his breath.  "Grandee never was in Kansas."

"My! Ain't that elegant, though, abaout the wavin' grass an' the ripplin' brooks?" Tuck whispered
in Nip's ear. "The gentleman's real convincin' I think."

"I say we are the same flesh an' blood! Are we to be separated, horse from horse, by the artificial
barriers of a trottin'-record, or are we to look down upon each other on the strength o' the
gifts o' nature - an extry inch below the knee, or slightly more powerful quarters? What's
the use o' them advantages to you? Man the Oppressor comes along, an' sees you're likely an'
good-lookin', an' grinds you to the face o' the earth. What for? For his own pleasure: for
his own convenience!  Young an' old, black an' bay, white an' grey, there's no distinctions
made between us.  We're ground up together under the remorseless teeth o' the engines of oppression
!"

"Guess his breechin' must ha' broke goin' daown-hill," said the Deacon. "Slippery road, maybe,
an' the buggy come onter him, an' he didn't know 'nough to hold back. That don't feel like
teeth, though. Maybe he busted a shaft, an' it pricked him."

"An' I come to you from Kansas, wavin' the tail o' friendship to all an' sundry, an' in the
name of the uncounted millions o' pure-minded, high-toned horses now strugglin' towards the
light o' freedom, I say to you, Rub noses with us in our sacred an' holy cause. The power is
yourn. Without you, I say, Man the Oppressor cannot move himself from place to place. Without
you he cannot reap, he cannot sow, he cannot plough."

Mighty odd place, Kansas!" said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. "Seemin'ly they reap in the spring
an' plough in the fall. 'Guess it's right fer them, but 'twould make me kinder giddy."

"The produc's of your untirin' industry would rot on the ground if you did not weakly consent
to help him. Let 'em rot, I say! Let him call you to the stables in vain an' nevermore! Let
him shake his ensnarin' oats under your nose in vain! Let the Brahmas roost in the buggy, an'
the rats run riot round the reaper! Let him walk on his two hind feet till they blame well
drop off! Win no more soul-destroyn' races for his pleasure! Then, an' not till then, will
Man the Oppressor know where he's at. Quit workin', fellow-sufferers an' slaves! Kick! Rear!
Plunge! Lie down on the shafts, an' woller! Smash an' destroy! The conflict will be but short,
an' the victory is certain. After that we can press our inalienable rights to eight quarts
o' oats a day, two good blankets, an' a fly-net an' the best o' stablin'."

The yellow horse shut his yellow teeth with a triumphant snap; and Tuck said, With a sigh:
'Seems's if somethin' ought to be done. Don't seem right, somehow,- oppressin' us an all,-
to my way o' thinkin'."

Said Muldoon, in a far-away and sleepy voice:

"Who in Vermont's goin' to haul de inalienable oats? Dey weigh like Sam Hill, an' sixty bushel
at dat allowance ain't goin' to last t'ree weeks here. An' dere's de winter hay for five mont's!"

"We can settle those minor details when the great cause is won," said the yellow horse. "Let
us return simply but grandly to our inalienable rights - the right o' freedom on these yere
verdant hills, an' no invijjus distinctions o' track an' pedigree:"

"What in stables 'jer call an invijjus distinction?" said the Deacon, stiffly.

"Fer one thing, bein' a bloated, pampered trotter jest because you happen to be raised that
way, an' couldn't no more help trottin' than eatin'."

"Do ye know anythin' about trotters?" said the Deacon.

"I've seen 'em trot. That was enough for me. I don't want to know any more. Trottin' 's immoral."

"Waal, I'll tell you this much. They don't bloat, an' they don't pamp - much. I don't hold
out to be no trotter myself, though I am free to say I had hopes that way - onct. But I do
say, fer I've seen 'em trained, that a trotter don't trot with his feet: he trots with his
head; an' he does more work - ef you know what that is - in a week than you er your sire ever
done in all your lives. He's everlastingly at it, a trotter is; an' when he isn't, he's studyin'
haow. You seen 'em trot? Much you hev! You was hitched to a rail, back o' the stand, in a buckboard
with a soap-box nailed on the slats, an' a frowzy buff'lo atop, while your man peddled rum
fer lemonade to little boys as thought they was actin' manly, till you was both run off the
track an' jailed -you intoed, shufflin', sway-backed, wind-suckin' skate, you!"

"Don't get het up, Deacon," said Tweezy, quietly. "Now, suh, would you consider a fox-trot,
an' single-foot, an' rack, an' pace, an' amble, distinctions not worth distinguishin'? I assuah
you, gentlemen, there was a time befo' I was afflicted in my hip, if you'll pardon me, Miss
Tuck, when I was quite celebrated in Paduky for all those gaits; an in my opinion the Deacon's
co'rect when he says that a ho'se of any position in society gets his gaits by his haid, an'
not by - his, ah, limbs, Miss Tuck. I reckon I'm very little good now, but I'm rememberin'
the things I used to do befo' I took to transpo'tin' real estate with the help an' assistance
of this gentleman here." He looked at Muldoon.

"Invijjus arterficial hind legs !" said the ex-carhorse, with a grunt of contempt. "On de Belt
Line we don't reckon no horse wuth his keep 'less he kin switch de car off de track, run her
round on de cobbles, an' dump her in ag'in ahead o' de truck what's blockin' him. Dere is a
way o' swingin' yer quarters when de driver says, 'Yank her out, boys!' dat takes a year to
learn. Onct yer git onter it, youse kin yank a cable-car outer a manhole.  I don't advertise
myself for no circus-horse, but I knew dat trick better than most, an' dey was good to me in
de stables, fer I saved time on de Belt - an' time's what dey hunt in N' York."

"But the simple child o' nature-" the yellow horse began.

"Oh, go an' unscrew yer splints!  You're talkin' through yer bandages," said Muldoon, with
a horse-laugh. "Dere ain't no loose-box for de simple child o' nature on de Belt Line, wid
de Paris comin' in an' de Teutonic goin' out, an' de trucks an' de coupe's sayin' things, an'
de heavy freight movin' down fer de Boston boat 'bout t'ree o'clock of an August afternoon,
in de middle of a hot wave when de fat Kanucks an' Western horses drops dead on de block. De
simple child o' nature had better chase himself inter de water. Every man at de end of his
lines is mad or loaded or silly, an' de cop's madder an' loadeder an' sillier than de rest.
Dey all take it outer de horses. Dere's no wavin' brooks ner ripplin' grass on de Belt Line.
Run her out on de cobbles wid de sparks flyin', an' stop when de cop slugs you on de bone o'
yer nose.  Dat's N'York; see?

"I was always told s'ciety in Noo York was dreffle refined an' high-toned," said Tuck. "We're
lookin' to go there one o' these days, Nip an' me."

"Oh, you won't see no Belt business where you'll go, miss. De man dat wants you'll want bad,
an' he'll summer you on Long Island er at Newport, wid a winky-pinky silver harness an' an
English coachman. You'll make a star-hitch, you an' yer brother, miss. But I guess you won't
have no nice smooth bar bit. Dey checks 'em, an' dey bangs deir tails, an' dey bits 'em, de
city folk, an' dey says it's English, ye know, an' dey darsen't cut a horse loose 'ca'se o'
de cops. N' York's no place fer a horse, 'less he's on de Belt, an' can go round wid de boys.
Wisht I was in de Fire Department!"

"But did you never stop to consider the degradin' servitood of it all?" said the yellow horse.

"You don't stop on de Belt, cully.  You're stopped. An' we was all in de servitood business,
man an' horse, an' Jimmy dat sold de papers. Guess de passengers weren't out to grass neither,
by de way dey acted. I done my turn, an' I'm none o' Barnum's crowd; but any horse dat's worked
on de Belt four years don't train wid no simple child o' nature - not by de whole length o'
N' York."

"But can it be possible that with your experience, and at your time of life, you do not believe
that all horses are free and equal?" said the yellow horse."Not till they're dead," Muldoon
answered quietly. "An' den it depends on de gross total o' buttons an' mucilage dey gits outer
youse at Barren Island."

"They tell me you're a prominent philosopher." The yellow horse turned to Marcus. "Can you
deny a basic and pivotal statement such as this?"

"I don't deny anythin'," said Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, cautiously; "but ef you ast me, I
should say 'twuz more different sorts o' clipped oats of a lie than anythin' I've had my teeth
into sence I wuz foaled."

"Are you a horse?" said the yellow horse.

"Them that knows me best 'low I am."

"Ain't I a horse?"

"Yep; one kind of""Then ain't you an' me equal?"

"How fer kin you go in a day to a loaded buggy, drawin' five hundred pounds?" Marcus asked
carelessly.

"That has nothing to do with the case," the yellow horse answered excitedly.

"There's nothing I know hez more to do with the case," Marcus replied.

"Kin ye yank a full car outer de tracks ten times in de mornin'?" said Muldoon.

"Kin ye go to Keene - forty-two mile in an afternoon - with a mate," said Rick; "an' turn out
bright an' early next mornin'?"

"Was there evah any time in your careah, suh - I am not referrin' to the present circumstances,
but our mutual glorious past - when you could carry a pretty girl to market hahnsome, an' let
her knit all the way on account o' the smoothness o' the motion?" said Tweezy.

"Kin you keep your feet through the West River Bridge, with the narrer-gage comin' in on one
side, an' the Montreal flyer the other, an' the old bridge teeterin' between?" said the Deacon.
"Kin you put your nose down on the cow-catcher of a locomotive when you're waitin' at the depot
an' let 'em play 'Curfew shall not ring to-night' with the big brass bell?"

"Kin you hold back when the brichin' breaks? Kin you stop fer orders when your nigh hind leg's
over your trace an' ye feel good of a frosty mornin'?" said Nip, who had only learned that
trick last winter, and thought it was the crown of horsely knowledge.

"What's the use o' talk in'?" said Tedda Gabler, scornfully. "What kin ye do?"

"I rely on my simple rights - the inalienable rights o' my unfettered horsehood. An' I am proud
to say I have never, since my first shoes, lowered myself to obeyin' the will o' man."

"'Must ha' had a heap o' whips broke over yer yaller back," said Tedda.  "Hev ye found it paid
any?"

"Sorrer has been my portion since the day I was foaled.  Blows an' boots an' whips an' insults
- injury, outrage, an' oppression. I would not endoor the degradin' badges o' servitood that
connect us with the buggy an' the farm-wagon."

"It's amazin' difficult to draw a buggy 'thout traces er collar er breast-strap er somefin',"
said Marcus. "A Power-machine for sawin' wood is most the only thing there's no straps to.
I've helped saw 's much as three cord in an afternoon in a Power-machine. Slep', too, most
o' the time, I did; but 'tain't half as interestin' ez goin' daown-taown in the Concord."

"Concord don't hender you goin' to sleep any," said Nip.  "My throat-lash! D'you remember when
you lay down in the sharves last week, waitin' at the piazza?

"Pshaw! That didn't hurt the sharves. They wuz good an' wide, an' I lay down keerful.  The
folks kep' me hitched up nigh an hour 'fore they started; an' larfed - why, they all but lay
down themselves with larfin'. Say, Boney, if you've got to be hitched to anything that goes
on wheels, you've got to be hitched with somefin'."

"Go an' jine a circus," said Muldoon, "an' walk on your hind legs.  All de horses dat knows
too much to work [he pronounced it "woik," New York fashion] jine de circus."

"I am not sayin' anythin' again' work," said the yellow horse; "work is the finest thing in
the world."

"'Seems too fine fer some of us," Tedda snorted.

"I only ask that each horse should work for himself, an' enjoy the profit of his labours. Let
him work intelligently, an' not as a machine."

"There ain't no horse that works like a machine," Marcus began.

"There's no way o' workin' that doesn't mean goin' to pole er single - they never put me in
the Power-machine - er under saddle," said Rick.

"Oh, shucks!  We're talkin' same ez we graze," said Nip, "raound an' raound in circles Rod,
we hain't heard from you yet, an' you've more know-how than any span here."

Rod, the off-horse of the pair, had been standing with one hip lifted, like a tired cow; and
you could only tell by the quick flutter of the haw across his eye, from time to time, that
he was paying any attention to the argument. He thrust his jaw out sidewise, as his habit is
when he pulls, and changed his leg. His voice was hard and heavy, and his ears were close to
his big, plain Hambletonian head.

"How old are you?" he said to the yellow horse.

"Nigh thirteen, I guess."

"Mean age; ugly age; I'm gettin' that way myself. How long hev ye been pawin' this firefanged
stable-litter?"

"If you mean my principles, I've held 'em sence I was three."

"Mean age; ugly age; teeth give heaps o' trouble then. 'Set a colt to actin' crazy fer a while.
You've kep' it up, seemin'ly. D'ye talk much to your neighbours fer a steady thing?"

"I uphold the principles o' the Cause wherever I am pastured."

"'Done a heap o' good, I guess?"

"I am proud to say I have taught a few of my companions the principles o' freedom an' liberty."

"Meanin' they ran away er kicked when they got the chanst?"

"I was talkin' in the abstrac', an' not in the concrete.  My teachin's educated them."

"What a horse, specially a young horse, hears in the abstrac', he's liable to do in the Concord.
You was handled late, I presoom."

Four, risin' five."

"That's where the trouble began. Driv' by a woman, like ez not - eh?"

"Not fer long," said the yellow horse, with a snap of his teeth.

"Spilled her?"

"I heerd she never drove again."

"Any childern?"

"Buckboards full of 'em."

"Men too?"

"I have shed conside'ble men in my time."

"By kickin'?"

"Any way that come along. Fallin' back over the dash is as handy as most."

"They must be turr'ble afraid o' you daowntaown?"

"They've sent me here to get rid o' me. I guess they spend their time talkin' over my campaigns.""I
wanter know!"

"Yes, sir. Now, all you gentlemen have asked me what I can do.  I'll just show you. See them
two fellers lyin' down by the buggy?"

"Yep; one of 'em owns me. T'other broke me," said Rod.

"Get 'em out here in the open, an' I'll show you something. Lemme hide back o' you peoples,
so 's they won't see what I'm at."

"Meanin' ter kill 'em?" Rod drawled. There was a shudder of horror through the others; but
the yellow horse never noticed.

"I'll catch 'em by the back o' the neck, an' pile-drive 'em a piece. They can suit 'emselves
about livin' when I'm through with 'em."

"'Shouldn't wonder ef they did," said Rod. The yellow horse had hidden himself very cleverly
behind the others as they stood in a group, and was swaying his head close to the ground with
a curious scythe-like motion, looking side-wise out of his wicked eyes.  You can never mistake
a man-eater getting ready to knock a man down. We had had one to pasture the year before.

"See that?" said my companion, turning over on the pine-needles. "Nice for a woman walking
'cross lots, wouldn't it be?"

"Bring 'em out!" said the yellow horse, hunching his sharp back. "There's no chance among them
tall trees. Bring out the - oh! Ouch!"

It was a right-and-left kick from Muldoon.  I had no idea that the old car-horse could lift
so quickly. Both blows caught the yellow horse full and fair in the ribs, and knocked the breath
out of him.

"What's that for?" he said angrily, when he recovered himself; but I noticed he did not draw
any nearer to Muldoon than was necessary.

Muldoon never answered, but discoursed to himself in the whining grunt that he uses when he
is going down-hill in front of a heavy load. We call it singing; but I think it's something
much worse, really. The yellow horse blustered and squealed a little, and at last said that,
if it was a horse-fly that had stung Muldoon, he would accept an apology.

"You'll get it," said Muldoon, "in de sweet by-and-bye - all de apology you've any use for.
Excuse me interruptin' you, Mr. Rod, but I'm like Tweezy - I've a Southern drawback in me hind
legs."

"Naow, I want you all here to take notice, an' you'll learn something," Rod went on. "This
yaller-backed skate comes to our pastur'-"

"Not havin' paid his board," put in Tedda.

"Not havin' earned his board, an' talks smooth to us abaout ripplin' brooks an' wavin' grass,
an' his high-toned, pure-souled horsehood, which don't hender him sheddin' women an' childern,
an' fallin' over the dash onter men. You heard his talk, an' you thought it mighty fine, some
o' you."

Tuck looked guilty here, but she did not say anything.

"Bit by bit he goes on ez you have heard."

"I was talkin' in the abstrac'," said the yellow horse, in an altered voice.

"Abstrac' be switched! Ez I've said, it's this yer blamed abstrac' business that makes the
young uns cut up in the Concord; an' abstrac' or no abstrac', he crep' on an' on till he come
to killin' plain an' straight - killin' them as never done him no harm, jest beca'se they owned
horses."

"An' knowed how to manage 'em," said Tedda. That makes it worse."

Waal, he didn't kill 'em, anyway," said Marcus. "He'd ha' been half killed ef he had tried."

"'Makes no differ," Rod answered. "He meant to; an' ef he hadn't - s'pose we want the Back
Pasture turned into a biffin'-ground on our only day er rest? 'S'pose we want our men walkin'
round with bits er lead pipe an' a twitch, an' their hands full o' stones to throw at us, same
's if we wuz hogs er hooky keows? More'n that, leavin' out Tedda here - an' I guess it's more
her maouth than her manners stands in her light -there ain't a horse on this farm that ain't
a woman's horse, an' proud of it. An' this yer bogspavined Kansas sunflower goes up an' daown
the length o' the country, traded off an' traded on, boastin' as he's shed women --an' childern.
I don't say as a woman in a buggy ain't a fool. I don't say as she ain't the lastin'est kind
er fool, ner I don't say a child ain't worse - spattin' the lines an' standin' up an' hollerin'
- but I do say, 'tain't none of our business to shed 'em daown the road.""We don't," said the
Deacon. "The baby tried to git some o' my tail for a sooveneer last fall when I was up to the
haouse, an' I didn't kick. Boney's talk ain't goin' to hurt us any. We ain't colts."

"Thet's what you think Bimeby you git into a tight corner, 'Lection day er Valley Fair, like
's not, daown-taown, when you're all het an' lathery, an' pestered with flies, an' thirsty,
an' sick o' bein' worked in an aout 'tween buggies.  Then somethin' whispers inside o' your
winkers, bringin' up all that talk abaout servitood an' inalienable truck an' sech like, an'
jest then a Militia gun goes off; er your wheels hit, an' - waal, you're only another horse
ez can't be trusted. I've been there time an' again. Boys - fer I've seen you all bought er
broke - on my solemn repitation fer a three-minute clip, I ain't givin' you no bran-mash o'
my own fixin'. I'm tellin' you my experiences, an' I've had ez heavy a load an' ez high a check
's any horse here. I wuz born with a splint on my near fore ez big 's a walnut, an' the cussed,
three-cornered Hambletonian temper that sours up an' curdles daown ez you git older. I've favoured
my splint; even little Rick he don't know what it's cost me to keep my end up sometimes; an'
I've fit my temper in stall an' harness, hitched up an' at pasture, till the sweat trickled
off my hooves, an' they thought I wuz off condition, an' drenched me."

"When my affliction came," said Tweezy, gently, "I was very near to losin' my manners. Allow
me to extend to you my sympathy, suh."

Rick said nothing, but he looked at Rod curiously. Rick is a sunny-tempered child who never
bears malice, and I don't think he quite understood. He gets his temper from his mother, as
a horse should.

"I've been there too, Rod," said Tedda. "Open confession's good for the soul, an' all Monroe
County knows I've had my experriences."

"But if you will excuse me, suh, that pusson"-Tweezy looked unspeakable things aat the yellow
horse - "that pusson who has insulted our intelligences comes from Kansas. An' what a ho'se
of his position, an' Kansas at that, says cannot, by any stretch of the halter, concern gentlemen
of our position. There's no shadow of equal'ty, suh, not even for one kick. He's beneath our
contempt."

"Let him talk," said Marcus. "It's always interestin' to know what another horse thinks. It
don't tech us."

"An' he talks so, too," said Tuck. "I've never heard anythin' so  smart for a long time."

Again Rod stuck out his jaws sidewise, and went on slowly, as though he were slugging on a
plain bit at the end of a thirty-mile drive:

"I want all you here ter understand thet ther ain't no Kansas, ner no Kentucky, ner yet no
Vermont, in our business. There's jest two kind o' horse in the United States-them ez can an'
will do their work after bein' properly broke an' handled, an' them as won't. I'm sick an'
tired o' this everlastin' tail-switchin' an' wickerin' abaout one State er another. A horse
kin be proud o' his State, an' swap lies abaout it in stall or when he's hitched to a block,
ef he keers to put in fly-time that way; but he hain't no right to let that pride o' hisn interfere
with his work, ner to make it an excuse fer claimin' he's different. That's colts' talk, an'
don't you fergit it, Tweezy. An', Marcus,you remember that hem' a philosopher, an' anxious
to save trouble,- fer you ate,- don't excuse you from jumpin' with all your feet on a slack-jawed,
crazy clay-bank like Boney here. It's leavin' 'em alone that gives 'em their chance to ruin
colts an' kill folks. An', Tuck, waal, you're a mare anyways - but when a horse comes along
an' covers up all his talk o' killin' with ripplin' brooks, an wavin grass, an' eight quarts
of oats a day free, after killn' his man, don't you be run away with by his yap. You're too
young an' too nervous."

"I'll - I'll have nervous prostration sure ef there's a fight here," said Tuck, who saw what
was in Rod's eye; "I'm - I'm that sympathetic I'd run away clear to next caounty."

"Yep; I know that kind o' sympathy. Jest lasts long enough to start a fuss, an' then lights
aout to make new trouble. I hain't been ten years in harness fer nuthin'. Naow, we're goin'
to keep school with Boney fer a spell."

"Say, look a-here, you ain't goin' to hurt me, are you? Remember, I belong to a man in town,"
cried the yellow horse, uneasily. Muldoon kept behind him so that he could not run away.

"I know it. There must be some pore delooded fool in this State hez a right to the loose end
o' your hitchin'-strap.  I'm blame sorry fer him, but he shall hev his rights when we're through
with you," said Rod.

If it's all the same, gentlemen, I'd ruther change pasture. 'Guess I'll do it now."

"'Can't always have your 'druthers. 'Guess you won't," said Rod.

"But look a-here. All of you ain't so blame unfriendly to a stranger.  S'pose we count noses."

"What in Vermont fer?" said Rod, putting up his eyebrows. The idea of settling a question by
counting noses is the very last thing that ever enters the head of a well-broken horse.

"To see how many's on my side.  Here's Miss Tuck, anyway; an' Colonel Tweezy yonder's neutral;
an' Judge Marcus, an' I guess the Reverend [the yellow horse meant the Deacon] might see that
I had my rights.  He's the likeliest-lookin' Trotter I've ever set eyes on.  Pshaw. Boys. You
ain't goin' to pound me, be youyou?  Why, we've gone round in pasture, all colts together,
this month ' Sundays, hain't we, as friendly as could be. There ain't a horse alive I don't
care who he is - has a higher opinion o' you, Mr. Rod, than I have.  Let's do it fair an' true
an' above the exe.  Let's count noses same 's they do in Kansas."  Here he dropped his voice
a little and turned to Marcus: "Say, Judge, there's some green food I know, back o' the brook,
no one hain't touched yet. After this little fracas is fixed up, you an' me'll make up a party
an' 'tend to it."Marcus did not answer for a long time, then he said:  "There's a pup up to
the haouse 'bout eight weeks old. He'll yap till he gits a lickin', an' when he sees it comin'
he lies on his back, an' yowls. But he don't go through no cirkituous nose-countin' first.
I've seen a noo light sence Rod spoke. You'll better stand up to what's served. I'm goin' to
philosophise all over your carcass."

I'm goin' to do yer up in brown paper," said Muldoon.  "I can fit

you on apologies."

"Hold on.  Ef we all biffed you now, these same men you've been so dead anxious to kill 'u'd
call us off. 'Guess we'll wait till they go back to the haouse, an' you'll have time to think
cool an' quiet," said Rod.

"Have you no respec' whatever fer the dignity o' our common horsehood?" the yellow horse squealed.

"Nary respec' onless the horse kin do something. America's paved with the kind er horse you
are -jist plain yaller-dog horse - waitin' ter be whipped inter shape. We call 'em yearlings
an' colts when they're young.  When they're aged we pound 'em - in this pastur'.  Horse, sonny,
is what you start from.  We know all about horse here, an' he ain't any high-toned, pure souled
child o' nature. Horse, plain horse, same ez you, is chock-full o' tricks, an' meannesses,
an' cussednesses, an' shirkin's, an' monkey-shines, which he's took over from his sire an'
his dam, an' thickened up with his own special fancy in the way o' goin' crooked. Thet's horse,
an' thet's about his dignity an' the size of his soul 'fore he's been broke an' rawhided a
piece. Now we ain't goin' to give ornery unswitched horse, that hain't done nawthin' wuth a
quart of oats sence he wuz foaled, pet names that would be good enough fer Nancy Hanks, or
Alix, or Directum, who hev. Don't you try to back off acrost them rocks. Wait where you are!
Ef I let my Hambletonian temper git the better o' me I'd frazzle you out finer than rye-straw
inside o' three minutes, you woman-scarin', kid-killin', dash-breakin', unbroke, unshod, ungaited,
pastur'-hoggin', saw-backed, shark-mouthed, hair-trunk-thrown-in-in-trade son of a bronco an'
a sewin'-machine!"

" I think we'd better get home," I said to my companion, when Rod had finished; and we climbed
into the coupe, Tedda whinnying, as we bumped over the ledges: "Well, I'm dreffle sorry I can't
stay fer the sociable; but I hope an' trust my friends'll take a ticket fer me."

"Bet your natchul!" said Muldoon, cheerfully, and the horses scattered before us, trotting
into the ravine.

Next morning we sent back to the livery-stable what was left of the yellow horse.  It seemed
tired, but anxious to go.

End of "A WALKING DELEGATE"

THE SHIP THAT FOUND HERSELF

It was her first voyage, and though she was but a cargo-steamer of twenty-five hundred tons,
she was the very best of her kind, the outcome of forty years of experiments and improvements
in framework and machinery; and her designers and owner thought as much of her as though she
had been the Lucania. Any one can make a floating hotel that will pay expenses, if he puts
enough money into the saloon, and charges for private baths, suites of rooms, and such like;
but in these days of competition and low freights every square inch of a cargo-boat must be
built for cheapness, great hold-capacity, and a certain steady speed. This boat was, perhaps,
two hundred and forty feet long and thirty-two feet wide, with arrangements that enabled her
to carry cattle on her main and sheep on her upper deck if she wanted to; but her great glory
was the amount of cargo that she could store away in her holds. Her owners -they were a very
well known Scotch firm came round with her from the north, where she had been launched and
christened and fitted, to Liverpool, where she was to take cargo for New York; and the owner's
daughter, Miss Frazier, went to and fro on the clean decks, admiring the new paint and the
brass work, and the patent winches, and particularly the strong, straight bow, over which she
had cracked a bottle of champagne when she named the steamer the Dimbula.  It was a beautiful
September afternoon, and the boat in all her newness  she was painted lead-colour with a red
funnel - looked very fine indeed.  Her house-flag was flying, and her whistle from time to
time acknowledged the salutes of friendly boats, who saw that she was new to the High and Narrow
Seas and wished to make her welcome.

"And now," said Miss Frazier, delightedly, to the captain, "she's a real ship, isn't she? 
It seems only the other day father gave the order for her, and now - and now - isn't she a
beauty!" The girl was proud of the firm, and talked as though she were the controlling partner.

"Oh, she's no so bad," the skipper replied cautiously.  "But I'm sayin' that it takes more
than christenin' to mak' a ship. In the nature o' things, Miss Frazier, if ye follow me, she's
just irons and rivets and plates put into the form of a ship. She has to find herself yet."

"I thought father said she was exceptionally well found.""So she is, said the skipper, with
a laugh. "But it's this way wi' ships, Miss Frazier.  She's all here, but the parrts of her
have not learned to work together yet. They've had no chance."

"The engines are working beautifully. I can hear them."

"Yes, indeed. But there's more than engines to a ship.  Every inch of her, ye'll understand,
has to be livened up and made to work wi' its neighbour - sweetenin' her, we call it, technically."

"And how will you do it?" the girl asked.

"We can no more than drive and steer her and so forth; but if we have rough weather this trip
- it's likely - she'll learn the rest by heart!  For a ship, ye'll obsairve, Miss Frazier,
is in no sense a reegid body closed at both ends. She's a highly complex structure o' various
an' conflictin' strains, wi' tissues that must give an' tak' accordin' to her personal modulus
of elasteecity."  Mr. Buchanan, the chief engineer, was coming towards them. "I'm sayin' to
Miss Frazier, here, that our little Dimbula has to be sweetened yet, and nothin' but a gale
will do it.  How's all wi'  your engines, Buck?"

"Well enough - true by plumb an' rule, o' course; but there's no spontaneeity yet."  He turned
to the girl. "Take my word, Miss Frazier, and maybe ye'll comprehend later; even after a pretty
girl's christened a ship it does not follow that there's such a thing as a ship under the men
that work her."

"I was sayin' the very same, Mr. Buchanan," the skipper interrupted.

"That's more metaphysical than I can follow," said Miss Frazier, laughing.

"Why so?  Ye're good Scotch, an'- I knew your mother's father, he was fra' Dumfries - ye've
a vested right in metapheesics, Miss Frazier, just as ye have in the Dimbula," the engineer said.

"Eh, well, we must go down to the deep watters, an' earn Miss Frazier her deevidends.  Will
you not come to my cabin for tea?" said the skipper.  "We'll be in dock the night, and when
you're goin' back to Glasgie ye can think of us loadin' her down an' drivin' her forth - all
for your sake."

In the next few days they stowed some four thousand tons dead-weight into the Dimbula, and
took her out from Liverpool.  As soon as she met the lift of the open water, she naturally
began to talk.  If you lay your ear to the side of the cabin, the next time you are in a steamer,
you will hear hundreds of little voices in every direction, thrilling and buzzing, and whispering
and popping, and gurgling and sobbing and squeaking exactly like a telephone in a thunder-storm.
Wooden ships shriek and growl and grunt, but iron vessels throb and quiver through all their
hundreds of ribs and thousands of rivets. The Dimbula was very strongly built, and every piece
of her had a letter or a number, or both, to describe it; and every piece had been hammered,
or forged, or rolled, or punched by man, and had lived in the roar and rattle of the shipyard
for months.  Therefore, every piece had its own separate voice, in exact proportion to the
amount of trouble spent upon it.  Cast-iron, as a rule, says very little; but mild steel plates
and wrought-iron, and ribs and beams that have been much bent and welded and riveted, talk
continuously.  Their conversation, of course, is not half as wise as our human talk, because
they are all, though they do not know it, bound down one to the other in a black darkness,
where they cannot tell what is happening near them, nor what will overtake them next.

As soon as she had cleared the Irish coast, a sullen, grey-headed old wave of the Atlantic
climbed leisurely over her straight bows, and sat down on the steam-capstan used for hauling
up the anchor.  Now the capstan and the engine that drove it had been newly painted red and
green; besides which, nobody likes being ducked.

"Don't you do that again," the capstan sputtered through the teeth of his cogs.  "Hi! Where's
the fellow gone?"

The wave had slouched overside with a plop and a chuckle; but "Plenty more where he came from,"
said a brother-wave, and went through and over the capstan, who was bolted firmly to an iron
plate on the iron deck-beams below.

"Can't you keep still up there?" said the deckbeams.  "What's the matter with you?  One minute
you weigh twice as much as you ought to, and the next you don't!"

"It isn't my fault," said the capstan. "There's a green brute outside that comes and hits me
on the head."

"Tell that to the shipwrights. You've been in position for months and you've never wriggled
like this before.  If you aren't careful you'll strain us."

"Talking of strain," said a low, rasping, unpleasant voice, are any of you fellows - you deck-beams,
we mean - aware that those exceedingly ugly knees of yours happen to be riveted into our structure
- ours?"

"Who might you be?" the deck-beams inquired.

"Oh, nobody in particular," was the answer. "We're only the port and starboard upper-deck stringers;
and if you persist in heaving and hiking like this, we shall be reluctantly compelled to take
steps."

Now the stringers of the ship are long iron girders, so to speak, that run lengthways from
stern to bow. They keep the iron frames (what are called ribs in a wooden ship) in place, and
also help to hold the ends of the deck-beams, which go from side to side of the ship.  Stringers
always consider themselves most important, because they are so long.

"You will take steps - will you?"  This was a long echoing rumble.  It came from the frames
- scores and scores of them, each one about eighteen inches  distant from the next, and each
riveted to the stringers in four places. "We think you will have a certain amount of trouble
in that"; and thousands and  thousands of the little rivets that held everything together whispered:
"You  Will! You will! Stop quivering and be quiet. Hold on, brethren! Hold on! Hot Punches!
What's that?"

Rivets have no teeth, so they cannot chatter with fright; but they did their best as a fluttering
jar swept along the ship from stern to bow, and she shook like a rat in a terrier's mouth.

An unusually severe pitch, for the sea was rising, had lifted the big throbbing screw nearly
to the surface, and it was spinning round in a kind of soda-water - half sea and half air -
going much faster than was proper, because there was no deep water for it to work in.  As it
sank again, the engines - and they were triple expansion, three cylinders in a row - snorted
through all their three pistons. "Was that a joke, you fellow outside?It's an uncommonly poor
one. How are we to do our work if you fly off the

handle that way?"

"I didn't fly off the handle," said the screw, twirling huskily at the end of the screw-shaft.
"If I had, you'd have been scrap-iron by this time. The sea dropped away from under me, and
I had nothing to catch on to.  That's all."

That's all, d'you call it?" said the thrust-block, whose business it is to take the push of
the screw; for if a screw had nothing to hold it back it would crawl right into the engine-room.
(It is the holding back of the screwing action that gives the drive to a ship.)  "I know I
do my work deep down and out of sight, but I warn you I expect justice. All I ask for is bare
justice. Why can't you push steadily and evenly, instead of whizzing like a whirligig, and
making me hot under all my collars?"  The thrust-block had six collars, each faced with brass,
and he did not wish to get them heated.

All the bearings that supported the fifty feet of screw-shaft as it ran to the stern whispered:
"Justice - give us justice."

"I can only give you what I can get," the screw answered.  "Look out! It's coming again!"

He rose with a roar as the Dimbula plunged, and "whack - flack - whack - whack" went the engines,
furiously, for they had little to check them.

"I'm the noblest outcome of human ingenuity - Mr. Buchanan says so," squealed the high-pressure
cylinder.  "This is simply ridiculous!" The piston went up savagely, and choked, for half the
steam behind it was mixed with dirty water. "Help! Oiler! Fitter! Stoker! Help I'm choking,"
it gasped."Never in the history of maritime invention has such a calamity over-taken one so
young and strong. And if I go, who's to drive the ship?"

"Hush! oh, hush!" whispered the Steam, who, of course, had been to sea many times before. He
used to spend his leisure ashore in a cloud, or a gutter, or a flower-pot, or a thunder-storm,
or anywhere else where water was needed. "That's only a little priming, a little carrying-over,
as they call it.  It'll happen all night, on and off.  I don't say it's nice, but it's the
best we can do under the circumstances."

"What difference can circumstances make ~. I'm here to do my work - on clean, dry steam. Blow
circumstances!" the cylinder roared.

"The circumstances will attend to the blowing. I've worked on the North Atlantic run a good
many times - it's going to be rough before morning."

"It isn't distressingly calm now," said the extra strong frames - they were called web-frames
- in the engine-room.  "There's an upward thrust that we don't understand, and there's a twist
that is very bad for our brackets and diamond- plates, and there's a sort of west-northwesterly
pull, that follows the twist,  which seriously annoys us. We mention this because we happened
to cost a good  deal of money, and we feel sure that the owner would not approve of our being
treated in this frivolous way."

I'm afraid the matter is out of owner's hands for the present," said the Steam, slipping into
the condenser.  "You're left to your own devices till the weather betters."

"I wouldn't mind the weather," said a flat bass voice below; "it's this confounded cargo that's
breaking my heart.  I'm the garboard-strake, and I'm twice as thick as most of the others,
and I ought to know something."

The garboard-strake is the lowest plate in the bottom of a ship, and the Dimbula's garboardstrake
was nearly three-quarters of an inch mild steel.

"The sea pushes me up in a way I should never have expected," the strake grunted, "and the
cargo pushes me down, and, between the two, I don't know what I'm supposed to do."

"When in doubt, hold on," rumbled the Steam, making head in the boilers.

"Yes; but there's only dark, and cold, and hurry, down here; and how do I know whether the
other plates are doing their duty?  Those bulwark-plates up above, I've heard, ain't more than
five-sixteenths of an inch thick -scandalous, I call it."

"I agree with you," said a huge web-frame, by the main cargo-hatch.  He was deeper and thicker
than all the others, and curved half-way across the ship in the shape of half an arch, to support
the deck where deck-beams would have been in the way of cargo coming up and down. "I work entirely
unsupported, and I observe that I am the sole strength of this vessel, so far as my vision
extends.  The responsibility, I assure you, is enormous.  I believe the money-value of the
cargo is over one hundred and fifty thousand pounds. Think of that!"

"And every pound of it is dependent on my personal exertions."  Here spoke a sea-valve that
communicated directly with the water outside, and was seated not very far from the garboard-strake.
"I rejoice to think that I am a Prince-Hyde Valve, with best Para rubber facings. Five patents
cover me - I mention this without pride - five separate and several patents, each one finer
than the other.  At present I am screwed fast. Should I open, you would immediately be swamped.
This is incontrovertible!"

Patent things always use the longest words they can.  It is a trick that they pick up from
their inventors.

"That's news," said a big centrifugal bilge-pump.  "I had an idea that you were employed to
clean decks and things with.  At least, I've used you for that more than once.  I forget the
precise number, in thousands, of gallons which I am guaranteed to throw per hour; but I assure
you, my complaining friends, that there is not the least danger.  I alone am capable of  clearing
any water that may find its way here.  By my Biggest Deliveries, we pitched then!"

The sea was getting up in workmanlike style. It was a dead westerly gale, blown from under
a ragged opening of green sky, narrowed on all sides by fat, grey clouds; and the wind bit
like pincers as it fretted the spray into lacework on the flanks of the waves.

"I tell you what it is," the foremast telephoned down its wire-stays.  "I'm up here, and I
can take a dispassionate view of things.  There's an organised conspiracy against us.  I'm
sure of it, because every single one of these waves is heading directly for our bows. The whole
sea is concerned in it - and so's the wind.  It's awful!"

"What's awful?" said a wave, drowning the capstan for the hundredth time.

"This organised conspiracy on your part," the capstan gurgled, taking his cue from the mast."Organised
bubbles and spindrift!  There has been a depression in the Gulf of Mexico. Excuse me!" He leaped
overside; but his friends took up the tale one after another.

"Which has advanced - "That wave hove green water over the funnel.

"As far as Cape Hatteras -" He drenched the bridge.

"And is now going out to sea - to sea - to sea!" The third went out in three surges, making
a clean sweep of a boat, which turned bottom up and sank in the darkening troughs alongside,
while the broken falls whipped the davits.

"That's all there is to it," seethed the white water roaring through the scuppers. " There's
no animus in our proceedings. We're only meteorological corollaries."

"Is it going to get any worse?" said the bow-anchor chained down to the deck, where he could
only breathe once in five minutes.

"'Not knowing, can't say. Wind may blow a bit by midnight.  Thanks awfully. Good-bye."

The wave that spoke so politely had travelled some distance aft, and found itself all mixed
up on the deck amidships, which was a well-deck sunk between high bulwarks. One of the bulwark-plates,
which was hung on hinges to open outward, had swung out, and passed the bulk of the water back
to the sea again with a clean smack.

"Evidently that's what I'm made for," said the plate, closing again with a sputter of pride.
"Oh, no, you don't, my friend!"

The top of a wave was trying to get in from the outside, but as the plate did not open in that
direction, the defeated water spurted back.

"Not bad for five-sixteenths of an inch," said the bulwark-plate. "My work, I see, is laid
down for the night"; and it began opening and shutting, as it was designed to do, with the
motion of the ship.

"We are not what you might call idle," groaned all the frames together, as the Dimbula climbed
a big wave, lay on her side at the top, and shot into the next hollow, twisting in the descent.
A huge swell pushed up exactly under her middle, and her bow and stern hung free with nothing
to support them. Then one joking wave caught her up at the bow, and another at the stern, while
the rest of the water slunk away from under her just to see how she would like it; so she was
held up at her two ends only, and the weight of the cargo and the machinery fell on the groaning
iron keels and bilge-stringers.

"Ease off! Ease off; there!" roared the garboard-strake. "I want one-eighth of an inch fair
play. D' you hear me, you rivets!"

"Ease off! Ease off!" cried the bilge-stringers. "Don't hold us so  tight to the frames!"

"Ease off!" grunted the deck-beams, as the Dimbula rolled fearfully. "You've cramped our knees
into the stringers, and we can't move. Ease off; you flat-headed little nuisances."

Then two converging seas hit the bows, one on each side, and fell away in torrents of streaming
thunder.

"Ease off!" shouted the forward collision-bulkhead. "I want to crumple up, but I'm stiffened
in every direction. Ease off; you dirty little forge-filings. Let me breathe!"

All the hundreds of plates that are riveted to the frames, and make the outside skin of every
steamer, echoed the call, for each plate wanted to shift and creep a little, and each plate,
according to its position, complained against the rivets.

"We can't help it! We can't help it!" they murmured in reply. "We're put here to hold you,
and we're going to do it; you never pull us twice in the same direction. If you'd say what
you were going to do next, we'd try to meet your views.

"As far as I could feel," said the upper-deck planking, and that was four inches thick, "every
single iron near me was pushing or pulling in opposite directions. Now, what's the sense of
that? My friends, let us all pull together."

"Pull any way you please," roared the funnel, "so long as you don't try your experiments on
me. I need fourteen wire-ropes, all pulling in different directions, to hold me steady.  Isn't
that so?"

We believe you, my boy!" whistled the funnel-stays through their clinched teeth, as they twanged
in the wind from the top of the funnel to the deck.

"Nonsense!  We must all pull together," the decks repeated.  "Pull lengthways."

"Very good," said the stringers; "then stop pushing sideways when you get wet.  Be content
to run gracefully fore and aft, and curve in at the ends as we do."

"No - no curves at the end.  A very slight workmanlike curve from

side to side, with a good grip at each knee, and little pieces welded on," said the deck-beams.

"Fiddle!" cried the iron pillars of the deep, dark hold.  "Who ever heard of curves?  Stand
up straight; be a perfectly round column, and carry tons of good solid weight - like that!
There!"  A big sea smashed on the deck above, and the pillars stiffened themselves to the load.

"Straight up and down is not bad," said the frames, who ran that way in the sides of the ship,
"but you must also expand yourselves sideways. Expansion is the law of life, children.  Open
out! open out!"

"Come back!" said the deck-beams, savagely, as the upward heave of the sea made the frames
try to open. "Come back to your bearings, you slack-jawed irons!"

"Rigidity!  Rigidity!  Rigidity!" thumped the engines. "Absolute, unvarying rigidity -rigidity!"

"You see!" whined the rivets, in chorus. "No two of you will ever pull alike, and - and you
blame it all on us. We only know how to go through a plate and bite down on both sides so that
it can't, and mustn't, and sha'n't move."

"I've got one fraction of an inch play, at any rate," said the garboard-strake, triumphantly.
So he had, and all the bottom of the ship felt the easier for it.

"Then we're no good," sobbed the bottom rivets. "We were ordered - we were ordered -never to
give; and we've given, and the sea will come in, and we'll all go to the bottom together! First
we're blamed for everything unpleasant, and now we haven't the consolation of having done our
work."

"Don't say I told you," whispered the Steam, consolingly; "but, between  you and me and the
last cloud I came from, it was bound to happen sooner or later. You had to give a fraction,
and you've given without knowing it. Now, hold on, as before."

"What's the use?" a few hundred rivets chattered. "We've given - we've given; and the sooner
we confess that we can't keep the ship together, and go off our little heads, the easier it
will be. No rivet forged can stand this strain."

"No one rivet was ever meant to. Share it among you," the Steam answered."The others can have
my share. I'm going to pull out," said a rivet in one of the forward plates.

"If you go, others will follow," hissed the Steam.  "There's nothing so contagious in a boat
as rivets going. Why, I knew a little chap like you - he was an eighth of an inch fatter, though
- on a steamer - to be sure, she was only twelve hundred tons, now I come to think of it in
exactly the same place as you are.  He pulled out in a bit of a bobble of a sea, not half as
bad as this, and he started all his friends on the same butt-strap, and the plates opened like
a furnace door, and I had to climb into the nearest fog-bank, while the boat went down."

"Now that's peculiarly disgraceful," said the rivet. "Fatter than me, was he, and in a steamer
not half our tonnage? Reedy little peg! I blush for the family, sir." He settled himself more
firmly than ever in his place, and the Steam chuckled.

"You see," he went on, quite gravely, " a rivet, and especially a rivet in your position, is
really the one indispensable part of the ship."

The Steam did not say that be had whispered the very same thing to every single piece of iron
aboard. There is no sense in telling too much.

And all that while the little Dimbula pitched and chopped, and swung and slewed, and lay down
as though she were going to die, and got up as  though she had been stung, and threw her nose
round and round in circles half a dozen times as she dipped, for the gale was at its worst.
It was inky black, in spite of the tearing white froth on the waves, and, to top everything,
the rain began to fall in sheets, so that you could not see your hand before your face. This
did not make much difference to the ironwork below, but it troubled the foremast a good deal.

"Now it's all finished," he said dismally. "The conspiracy is too strong for us. There is nothing
left but to -"

"Hurraar! Brrrraaah! Brrrrrrp!" roared the Steam through the fog-horn, till the decks quivered.
"Don't be frightened, below.  It's only me, just throwing out a few words, in case any one
happens to be rolling round to-night."

"You don't mean to say there's any one except us on the sea in such weather?" said the funnel,
in a husky snuffle.

"Scores of 'em," said the Steam, clearing its throat. "Rrrrrraaa! Brraaaaa! Prrrrp! It's a
trifle windy up here; and, Great Boilers! how it rains!"

"We're drowning," said the scuppers. They had been doing nothing else all night, but this steady
thrash of rain above them seemed to be the end of the world.

"That's all right. We'll be easier in an hour or two. First the wind and then the rain: Soon
you may make sail again! Grrraaaaaah! Drrrraaaa! Drrrp! I have a notion that the sea is going
down already.  If it does you'll learn something about rolling.  We've only pitched till now.
By the way, aren't you chaps in the hold a little easier than you were?"

There was just as much groaning and straining as ever, but it was not so loud or squeaky in
tone; and when the ship quivered she did not jar stiffly, like a poker hit on the floor, but
gave with a supple little waggle, like a perfectly balanced golf-club.

"We have made a most amazing discovery," said the stringers, one after another. "A discovery
that entirely changes the situation. We have found, for the first time in the history of ship-building,
that the inward pull of the deck-beams and the outward thrust of the frames locks us, as it
were, more closely in our places, and enables us to endure a strain which is entirely without
parallel in the records of marine architecture."

The Steam turned a laugh quickly into a roar up the fog-horn. "What  massive intellects you
great stringers have," he said softly, when he had finished.

"We also," began the deck-beams, "are discoverers and geniuses. We are of opinion that the
support of the hold-pillars materially helps us.  We find that we lock up on them when we are
subjected to a heavy and singular weight of sea above."

Here the Dimbula shot down a hollow, lying almost on her side; righting at the bottom with
a wrench and a spasm.

"In these cases - are you aware of this, Steam? - the plating at the bows, and particularly
at the stern - we would also mention the floors beneath us - help us to resist any tendency
to spring." The frames spoke, in the solemn awed voice which people use when they have just
come across something entirely new for the very first time.

"I'm only a poor puffy little flutterer," said the Steam, "but I have to stand a good deal
of pressure in my business. It's all tremendously interesting. Tell us some more. You fellows
are so strong."

"Watch us and you'll see," said the bow-plates, proudly.  "Ready, behind there!  Here's the
father and mother of waves coming! Sit tight, rivets all!" A great sluicing comber thundered
by, but through the scuffle and confusion the Steam could hear the low, quick cries of the
ironwork as the various strains took them - cries like these: "Easy, now - easy! Now push for
all your strength! Hold out! Give a fraction! Hold up! Pull in! Shove crossways! Mind the strain
at the ends! Grip, now! Bite tight! Let the water get away from under - and there she goes!"

The wave raced off into the darkness, shouting, "Not bad, that, if it's your first run!" and
the drenched and ducked ship throbbed to the beat of the engines inside her. All three cylinders
were white with the salt spray that had come down through the engine-room hatch; there was
white fur on the canvas-bound steam-pipes, and even the bright-work deep below was speckled
and soiled; but the cylinders had learned to make the most of steam that was half water, and
were pounding along cheerfully.

"How's the noblest outcome of human ingenuity hitting it?" said the Steam, as he whirled through
the engine-room.

"Nothing for nothing in this world of woe," the cylinders answered, as though they had been
working for centuries, "and precious little for seventy-five pounds head. We've made two knots
this last hour and a quarter! Rather humiliating for eight hundred horse-power, isn't it?"

"Well, it's better than drifting astern, at any rate. You seem rather less - how shall I put
it - stiff in the back than you were."

"If you'd been hammered as we've been this night, you wouldn't be stiff- iff- iff; either.
Theoreti - retti - retti - cally, of course, rigidity is the thing. Purrr - purr - practically,
there has to be a little give and take. We found that out by working on our sides for five
minutes at a stretch - chch - chh. How's the weather?"

"'Sea's going down fast," said the Steam.

"Good business," said the high-pressure cylinder. "Whack her up, boys. They've given us five
pounds more steam"; and he began humming the first bars of "Said the young Obadiah to the old
Obadiah," which, as you may have noticed, is a pet tune among engines not built for high speed.
Racing-liners with twin-screws sing "The Turkish Patrol" and the overture to the "Bronze Horse,"
and "Madame Angot," till something goes wrong, and then they render Gounod's "Funeral March
of a Marionette," with variations.

"You'll learn a song of your own some fine day," said the Steam, as he flew up the fog-horn
for one last bellow.

Next day the sky cleared and the sea dropped a little, and the Dimbula began to roll from side
to side till every inch of iron in her was sick and giddy.But luckily they did not all feel
ill at the same time: otherwise she would have opened out like a wet paper box.

The Steam whistled warnings as he went about his business: it is in this short, quick roll
and tumble that follows a heavy sea that most of the accidents happen, for then everything
thinks that the worst is over and goes off guard.  So he orated and chattered till the beams
and frames and floors and stringers and things had learned how to lock down and lock up on
one another, and endure this new kind of strain. 

Their army was far from its base of supplies and in a country swarming with the enemy. Before
war was formally declared, two officers who were caught outside the camp were killed, and two
whole companies captured.

There was no railroad, and General Taylor was compelled to send a considerable force back twenty-five
miles for supplies.

On the third of May the returning troops encountered a much larger
force of Mexicans.

A battle followed which continued after sundown. During the night the
Mexicans retreated, but were found further on, in a much stronger
position.

They awaited the Americans on the far side of a pond, their position
being further fortified by logs and branches of trees.

The captain of Grant's company was temporarily absent, and it fell to Grant
to lead their advance.

By this time the bullets were humming merrily, but he directed his
men to deploy to one side and approach through thicker woods.

At last they reached a clearing near the head of the pond, and he ordered
a charge. They captured the position immediately in front of them,
and made a few prisoners, including one colonel.

The engagement all along the line had been too brisk for the Mexicans, and they broke and ran,
leaving a considerable quantity of guns and ammunition.

As for the little lieutenant, it was his first battle, and first command
of a company, and he had reason to feel satisfied with the day's
work.

As one result of the engagement, the Americans now crossed the river, and
became an Army of Invasion. And now that war had actually begun,
volunteers began to flock to the standard.

The ensuing months of that year were packed with incident and no little
danger.

 In August, Grant was made quartermaster and commissary of the regiment--a position
of responsibility which he held until the army was withdrawn.

Although Grant's duties were now such as to withdraw him from active
fighting, he was not the man to take advantage of the fact.

The lively battle at Monterey bears witness of this. After a hard encounter
on the outskirts of the city, the Americans stormed it from the north
and east, and began to drive the Mexicans out, street by street.

But when the citadel was in sight, the commanding officer, Colonel
Garland, found to his dismay that they were short of ammunition.

"We must have ammunition at once," he announced to his men.

"Who will volunteer to ride back with the message?

I do not wish to detail any one, as it is extra hazardous."

At once, Lieutenant Grant stepped forward and saluted.

"I will go, Colonel," he said.

"You are just the man. If anybody can ride through, you can.

But hurry."

And Grant did. Crouching low on his mustang like an Indian, he dashed
down the bullet-swept streets, made the open, and delivered his message
to General Twigg.

The Mexican War was marked by the political rivalry of two American
Generals, one of whom was destined to win the highest honors in the
gift of his country--General Zachary Taylor, old "Rough and Ready,"
and General Winfield Scott, "Fuss and Feathers."

Both were able leaders, though totally unlike in their methods. Taylor cared nothing for personal appearance
or etiquette. He worked in close contact with his men. Scott, on the
contrary, was fond of display, and issued his orders through his staff
officers.

Scott was now given supreme command of the Mexican campaign, and summoned
all the regular troops for an invasion by way of Vera Cruz--the scene
of a later landing, in very recent years. Taylor was left with only the
volunteers, but he utilized them at Buena Vista to such good effect
that at the next election old "Rough and Ready" became President of
the United States--the very thing that his political foes at Washington
had tried to prevent, by giving Scott the supreme command.

Grant's company, with other regulars to the number of eight thousand
men, landed at Vera Cruz, and early in April began its perilous march
into the interior.

Roads had to be built and bridges constructed, and the army engineers toiled
night and day.

Among them were two young West Pointers, George B. McClellan and Robert
E. Lee.

Thus it was that Grant and Lee first came to know each other, in the wilds of
Mexico.

By the middle of May they had reached Puebla, which they captured easily. But the army needed supplies,
and Quartermaster Grant was sent out with an escort of one thousand
men to forage the surrounding country.

They filled their wagons and returned safely. This jaunt delighted Grant's soul. It was far
better than bringing up the rear on a dusty line of march. In one
of his letters home he writes:

"I have been delighted with the Mexican birds. Their plumage is superlatively
splendid. They beat ours in show, but to my mind do not equal them
in harmony.

I have written this letter with my sword fastened to my side, my pistols within reach, not knowing
but that the next moment I may be called into battle."

It is an odd coincidence, that at a later day we find another soldier--destined
to lead his country's armies to victory in a far mightier conflict--using
the soil of Mexico as a training ground.

That soldier was John J. Pershing.

One other exploit of Grant's in the Mexican campaign must be mentioned,
as it was not only daring, but it also revealed his resourcefulness.

During
the attack upon Chapultepec, Grant noticed that one of the two main
routes, the San Cosme road, was flanked by a small mission church
surmounted by a belfry.

He reasoned that if they could mount a howitzer in the belfry, that
section would be made mighty uncomfortable for the Mexicans.

He went at once to his superior officer, explained his plan, and secured
a detail of men with one gun.

The gun had to be taken to pieces, but with it in hand they compelled
the priest to open the church doors to them, mounted the steps to
the belfry, reassembled the gun, and it was soon beating a lively
tattoo down upon the backs of the astonished Mexicans.

For this "gallant conduct at Chapultepec," as the official citation
read, Grant won his brevet of captain.

With the signing of the treaty of peace, Grant came home on furlough, and in August, 1848, was married
to Julia Dent. He took his wife to his father's home, and was made
much of by his admiring townsmen.

His father was inordinately proud of "my Ulysses," now a captain and cited
for gallantry in action.

In the darker days that were to follow, he looked back to this time
as the very pinnacle of his son's greatness.

That there were darker days, and many of them, must be chronicled in any true sketch of Ulysses
S. Grant.

He was to taste the very dregs of humiliation and despair. He was to see these same admiring friends turn
from him one by one, with a sneer, or reproachful shake of the head.

For
days of peace were at hand--long days of barrack routine and enforced
idleness.

To Captain Grant these days coming after the excitement of Mexico
were at first welcome, then speedily grew tedious.

He had always hated the humdrum life of the drill ground. Now he was
shifted, after a few months, to a camp at San Francisco.

The distance was so great, travelling as they did by way of the Isthmus
of Panama (this was long before the railroads), that he could not
take his wife with him.

His slender pay also would not admit of it.

Life
in all the army camps was free and easy. Liquor flowed freely, and drunkenness
was unfortunately common. Grant like others, drank, but not to excess. With
him, however, one glass was sufficient to flush his face and render
his walk unsteady.

It was not long before the life at this far-removed western camp
began to tell upon him.

He quarreled with his commanding officer, and finally resigned from the service.

He had to borrow money in order to return home, a long and painful journey by way of New York, and
it was a discouraged, broken-looking man who greeted his wife and
his parents.

This was the summer of 1854.

Captain Grant was then only thirty-two, but it already seemed as
though the best and only valuable part of his life was behind him.

The recent conquering hero, with his dashing uniform and epaulets,
had become a somewhat seedy-looking individual with shoulders prematurely
stooped, and shuffling gait.

The word speedily went round the village, with many a nod and wink:

"Told
you so!

Went
up like a rocket; came down like a stick."

His wife, however, had not lost her confidence in him. Through all
the trying days that were to follow, she remained staunch and loyal.

She
persuaded her father to let her have a sixty-acre tract of land,
near St. Louis.

There she brought Ulysses and their children, and there he began life anew,
as a plain farmer.

He built with his own hands a log house of four rooms, with chimneys
at each end, and wide fireplaces.

With grim humor he called the place, "Hard-scrabble."

But he liked the place. He liked the freedom of it, with his horses and other live stock. Despite
its hardships he welcomed it as an escape from the petty exactions
of military life.

Nevertheless, he could not make it pay. He did not have sufficient capital
or bodily strength to succeed. An attack of chills and fever, in
1858, put the finishing touch to this episode, and he sold his stock
and farm the following spring.

During the ensuing few months he moved from pillar to post, trying various
ventures and succeeding with none.

The fates seemed against him. In St. Louis, whither he had drifted,
he was regarded with open scorn as, what we would now designate,
a "down-and-out."

One reason for his poor success lay in the fact that he was a Northerner, and
the city was seething with talk of secession.

The clouds of Civil War were already gathering, and men began to distrust
each his neighbor.

At this juncture his father, who seems rather to have turned against him
also, came to his relief.

He offered Ulysses a position in his leather business, now in charge
of the younger boys.

Ulysses
thankfully accepted, although the pay was only fifty dollars a month.
He brought his wife and boys to Galena, where at any rate he was
sure of having a roof over his head.

"The brothers found him of no earthly account at driving bargains, or
tending store," says General Charles King. "He could keep books after a fashion
and do some of the heavy work in handling the miscellaneous stock."

Another
soldier, who became his devoted follower in the later days, had his
first sight of Grant at this down-at-the-heels period.

"I went round to the store," he says; "it was a sharp winter morning,
and there wasn't a sign of a soldier or one that looked like a soldier
about the shop.

But pretty soon a farmer drove up with a lot of hides on his sleigh,
and went inside to dicker, and presently a stoop-shouldered, brownish-bearded
fellow, with a slouch hat pulled down over his eyes, who had been
sitting whittling at the stove when I was inside, came out, pulling
on an old light-blue soldier's overcoat. He flung open the doors leading
down into the cellar, laid hold of the top hide, frozen stiff it
was, tugged it loose, towed it over, and slung it down the chute.

Then one by one, all by himself, he heaved off the rest of them,
a ten minutes' tough job in that weather, until he had got the last
of them down the cellar; then slouched back into the store again,
shed the blue coat, got some hot water off the stove and went and
washed his hands, using a cake of brown soap, then came back and went
to whittling again, and all without a word to anybody.

That was my first look at Grant, and look at him now!"

But in all likelihood there would not have been another chance to
"look" at him, had not the great Civil War broken out.

It was to prove in his case that what seemed failure was merely lack of opportunity.

When
South Carolina seceded and the call for troops came, the stoop-shouldered
clerk in the hide store began to straighten up.

The call to arms put new life in his blood.

He felt his old confidence returning.

He refused a local captaincy, after he had demonstrated what he could do in drilling recruits, saying:
"I have been in the military service fourteen years, and think I
am competent to command a regiment."

He went to Springfield, Illinois, and offered his services, and after
some delay was given a desk in the adjutant-general's office.

It was not long before he proved his efficiency, and his advice was sought more and more by the Governor, in
organizing the State Guards.

When the 21st regiment was mustered into service, he was made its colonel.
He had put his foot on the first rung of the ladder of success.

The 21st, like other bodies of volunteers, was a loosely-knit, unruly set of men. They took
military life as a huge picnic, but speedily got over that attitude--under
Grant.

On their first long hike, it is said that their canteens were filled
with whiskey, instead of water--until Grant went through on a personal
tour of inspection, and ordered every canteen emptied out on the ground.
The way he took hold of that regiment and licked it into shape opened
the eyes of Governor Yates and his staff.

In two
months it was the best drilled regiment in the State; and when President
Lincoln wrote to the Governor asking suggestions for promotions, Grant's
name headed the list.

He
was made a Brigadier-General.

The story of the Civil War and Grant's great part therein belong to a
longer chronicle than this. Step by step this stern, quiet soldier fought
his way up, winning his country's battles and his own as well. In
the full tide of war he found himself--and better still his country
discovered him.

He was never after to prove recreant to his trust.

"We will fight it out along this line if it takes all summer," is one of
his typical remarks, and one most often quoted.

It was toward
the last of the hard-fought war, when the Southern forces under Lee were
doing their utmost to fend off the inevitable.

Grant,
now the commanding General of the Union forces, was still putting into
practise the quiet, bull-dog qualities that had led his armies to
victory.

Then came the final dramatic scene at the historic surrender at Appomattox. Lee had
come to discuss terms with him, and now stood awaiting his arrival,
erect, courtly, handsome--the typical Southern gentleman that he was.

Down the road came riding a gaunt-looking man, with the familiar
stoop-shoulders, and mud-bespattered trousers and boots.

It was the general-in-chief on his way to greet his beaten foe!

The two men looked each other in the eye, then clasped hands like old
friends.

Grant recalled the days of the Mexican
campaign, and was surprised that Lee knew so much about him in those
days.

He wanted to talk old times, and Lee himself brought up the subject
of surrender.

Grant took his seat at a table and wrote out the simple and generous
terms which allowed officers and men to return to their homes, on
giving their word not to take up arms against the United States government
again.

Lee's fine, dignified features softened as he read the terms--so much
more magnanimous than he had dared to hope.

"My men are nearly starving," he began--

"What do you need?" interrupted Grant; and gave instant orders that
the defeated army should be supplied with rations.

"Tell the boys to go home and go to work," he said.

That was Grant.

IMPORTANT DATES IN GRANT'S LIFE

1822. April 27. Ulysses Simpson Grant born. 1839.

Received
appointment to U. S. Military Academy, West Point.

1843.

Graduated. 1845.

Went as second-lieutenant to join Taylor's forces in Mexico. 1848. Brevetted
captain for gallantry. 1848.

Married Julia T. Dent. 1854. Resigned his army commission.

1861. Re-entered army at outbreak of Civil War. Commissioned colonel, then
brigadier-general.

1863. Made major-general.
1864. Given supreme command of the Union forces, with rank of lieutenant-general.
1866. The grade of general created for first time, and conferred
on him.

1868. Elected
President. 1885. July 23. Died at Mt. McGregor, New York.

LEE

THE LEADER OF A LOST CAUSE

A gray-haired college president sat talking kindly with a young sophomore
who had fallen behind in his studies.

"My boy," he said, "you must study if you would succeed. Only patience and
industry will prevent your failure here and your failure in after
life."

"But, General, you failed," replied the sophomore with an amazing impertinence.

"I
hope that you may be more fortunate than I," was the quiet answer.

Literature contains nothing finer than that by way of the retort courteous.

The
speaker was Robert E. Lee--the time not many months after the surrender
of the Southern army. Many were there to brand him as a "failure," just
as this thoughtless sophomore had done, and to all such critics his
reply was silence.

In the seclusion of a small Virginia
college he lived and worked, keeping sedulously out of public affairs,
writing and saying nothing about his campaigns.

He left to history
the final verdict, which has found him, not a failure, but one of the
most brilliant soldiers of this or any land.

In Lee's early life and ancestry his nearest parallel is Washington. These
two greatest Virginians were born within a few miles of each other,
in Westmoreland County.

Lee was born just seventy-five
years after Washington, (January 19, 1807) and like him was descended
of famous lineage. His father, Light Horse Harry Lee, fought by the
side of Washington in the Revolutionary War; and it was he who in a
memorial address on the great leader coined the immortal phrase:
"First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen."

Still

another ancestor,
Richard Henry Lee, had been born many years earlier in the same old
mansion where Robert Edward Lee first saw the light of day.

Richard
Lee it was, who was a boyhood friend and confidant of George Washington;
and who later became one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence.

It

is not strange, therefore, to find that the career of the first
great Virginian profoundly influenced the second. "One familiar with the
life of Lee," says Thomas Nelson Page, "cannot help noting the strong
resemblance of his character in its strength, its poise, its rounded
completeness, to that of Washington; or fail to mark what influence
the life of Washington had on the life of Lee.

The stamp appears upon it from his boyhood, and grows
more plain as his years progress."

The old homestead in which Lee was born deserves some notice on its
own account.

It was built
by Thomas Lee, a grandson of Richard Lee, the emigrant who came to Virginia
about the time that Charles I was losing both his crown and his head.
While Charles II was still in exile, this same Thomas Lee offered the
king a haven in Virginia, which was not accepted.

The original brick structure was destroyed by fire, but the house was
rebuilt on the same site during the time of Queen Anne, and it is
said that she aided in its reconstruction.

This was the ancestral home of
the Lees for several generations.

Robert E. Lee, though naturally proud of his lineage, never showed great
interest in the family tree. He never had the time or the inclination
to study genealogy, and always said that he knew nothing of it beyond
the fact that Colonel Richard Lee had come to America during the reign
of Charles I. Upon having a family seal and crest made, he apologized
for the seeming parade by saying, "I have thought, perhaps foolishly
enough, that it might as well be right as wrong."

Later, however, when approached on the subject
of publishing a family history, he wrote: "I am very much obliged
to Mr. ---- for the trouble he has taken in relation to the Lee genealogy.

I have no desire to have it published, and
do not think it would afford sufficient interest beyond the immediate
family to pay for the expense. I think the money had better be appropriated
to relieve the poor."

Harry Lee, Robert's father, was not only a soldier, but also a man
of letters. He loved the classics, and has left memoirs written in
spirited vein.

He had reached middle life, however,
before Robert was born, and passed away when the boy was eleven. It was
the mother's influence--and here again we have a parallel with Washington--which
was paramount in the early days. She was a Carter, of an equally old
and distinguished family, and is spoken of as an amiable and gracious
lady.

When Robert was still a child, his family moved to Alexandria, and very
shortly his father went away on a trip for his health, from which he
never returned. Between the boy and his mother the ties became very
close.

He was devoted to her,
and on her part she said, after he went away to school, "You have
been both son and daughter to me."

Long afterward, Lee alludes to this period in a letter to his own
son, by way of counsel: "A young gentleman who has read Virgil must surely
be competent to take care of two ladies; for before I had advanced that
far I was my mother's outdoor agent and confidential messenger."

Robert Lee obtained his first schooling at the old academy in Alexandria,
then taught by a Mr. Leary, who remained always his good friend.

Later he attended a better known school,
conducted by a strict Quaker, Benjamin Hallowell--Brimstone Castle, the
boys called it, solely on account of the color of the brick walls.
Hallowell himself was rarely if ever brimstone in character, though
he could be stern enough on occasion. He "thee'd" and "thou'd" in the
most orthodox style, and decried all warfare. Despite his pacifist
teaching, however, young Lee's earliest ambition was to become a soldier.
It was in his blood.

He was fond of outdoor sports, especially hunting and horseback riding.

His
lifelong fondness for horses brings to mind the same trait in Grant,
his later antagonist. In his older days Lee would tell with enthusiasm
how as a boy he had followed the hunt, not infrequently on foot,
for hours over hill and valley without tiring.

Again he wrote: "I know the pleasure of training a handsome
horse. I enjoy it as much as any one." His famous steed, "Traveller,"
was known throughout the Army of Virginia, during the War, and the
sight of him caused many an eye to grow moist as he followed riderless
the remains of his beloved master to their last resting place.

At
the Hallowell school, Lee chiefly excelled in mathematics, a study
which was later to be of great value to him, in the engineers' corps
of the army. Hallowell paid a tribute to his pupil after the latter
became famous, saying: "He was a most exemplary student in every respect."


Three or four times the reckless trackers returned, most truthfully saying that the beast was
mangy, undersized - a tigress worn with nursing, or a broken-toothed old male - and Bukta would
curb young Chinn's impatience.

At last, a noble animal was marked down - a ten-foot cattle-killer with a huge roll of loose
skin along the belly, glossy-hided, full-frilled about the neck, whiskered, frisky, and young.
He had slain a man in pure sport, they said.

"Let him be fed," quoth Bukta, and the villagers dutifully drove out a cow to amuse him, that
he might lie up near by.

Princes and potentates have taken ship to India and spent great moneys for the mere glimpse
of beasts one-half as fine as this of Bukta's.

"It is not good," said he to the Colonel, when he asked for shooting-leave, "that my Colonel's
son who may be - that my Colonel's son should lose his maidenhead on any small jungle beast.
That may come after.  I have waited long for this which is a tiger.  He has come in from the
Mair country. In seven days we will return with the skin."

The mess gnashed their teeth enviously. Bukta, had he chosen, might have invited them all.
But he went out alone with Chinn, two days in a shooting-cart and a day on foot, till they
came to a rocky, glary valley with a pool of good water in it. It was a parching day, and the
boy very naturally stripped and went in for a bathe, leaving Bukta by the clothes.  A white
skin shows far against brown jungle, and what Bukta beheld on Chinn's back and right shoulder
dragged him forward step by step with staring eyeballs.

"I'd forgotten it isn't decent to strip before a man of his position," said Chinn, flouncing
in the water. "How the little devil stares! What is it, Bukta?" "The Mark!" was the whispered
answer.

"It is nothing. You know how it is with my people!" Chinn was annoyed. The dull-red birth-mark
on his shoulder, something like a conventionalised Tartar cloud, had slipped his memory or
he would not have bathed. It occurred, so they said at home, in alternate generations, appearing,
curiously enough, eight or nine years after birth, and, save that it was part of the Chinn
inheritance, would not be considered pretty. He hurried ashore, dressed again, and went on
till they met two or three Bhils, who promptly fell on their faces. "My people," grunted Bukta,
not condescending to notice them. "And so your people, Sahib. When I was a young man we were
fewer, but not so weak. Now we are many, but poor stock. As may be remembered. How will you
shoot him, Sahib? From a tree; from a shelter which my people shall build; by day or by night?"

"On foot and in the daytime," said young Chinn.

"That was your custom, as I have heard," said Bukta to himself "I will get news of him. Then
you and I will go to him. I will carry one gun. You have yours. There is no need of more. What
tiger shall stand against thee?"

He was marked down by a little water-hole at the head of a ravine, full-gorged and half asleep
in the May sunlight. He was walked up like a partridge, and he turned to do battle for his
life. Bukta made no motion to raise his rifle, but kept his eyes on Chinn, who met the shattering
roar of the charge with a single shot - it seemed to him hours as he sighted - which tore through
the throat, smashing the backbone below the neck and between the shoulders. The brute couched,
choked, and fell, and before Chinn knew well what had happened Bukta bade him stay still while
he paced the distance between his feet and the ringing jaws.

"Fifteen," said Bukta. "Short paces. No need for a second shot, Sahib. He bleeds cleanly where
he lies, and we need not spoil the skin. I said there would be no need of these, but they came
- in case."

Suddenly the sides of the ravine were crowned with the heads of Bukta's people - a force that
could have blown the ribs out of the beast had Chinn's shot failed; but their guns were hidden,
and they appeared as interested beaters, some five or six waiting the word to skin. Bukta watched
the life fade from the wild eyes, lifted one hand, and turned on his heel.

"No need to show that we care," said he. "Now, after this, we can kill what we choose. Put
out your hand, Sahib."

Chinn obeyed. It was entirely steady, and Bukta nodded. "That also was  your custom. My men
skin quickly. They will carry the skin to cantonments. Will the Sahib come to my poor village
for the night and, perhaps, forget  that I am his officer?"

"But those men - the beaters. They have worked hard, and perhaps -"

"Oh, if they skin clumsily, we will skin them. They are my people.  In the lines I am one thing.
Here I am another."

This was very true. When Bukta doffed uniform and reverted to the fragmentary dress of his
own people, he left his civilisation of drill in the next world. That night, after a little
talk with his subjects, he devoted to an orgie; and a Bhil orgie is a thing not to be safely
written about. Chinn, flushed with triumph, was in the thick of it, but the meaning of the
mysteries was hidden. Wild folk came and pressed about his knees with offerings. He gave his
flask to the elders of the village. They grew eloquent, and wreathed him about with flowers.
Gifts and loans, not all seemly, were thrust upon him, and infernal music rolled and maddened
round red fires, while singers sang songs of the ancient times, and danced peculiar dances.
The aboriginal liquors are very potent, and Chinn was compelled to taste them often, but, unless
the stuff had been drugged, how came he to fall asleep suddenly, and to waken late the next
day - half a march from the village?

"The Sahib was very tired. A little before dawn he went to sleep,"  Bukta explained. "My people
carried him here, and now it is time we should go back to cantonments."

The voice, smooth and deferential, the step, steady and silent, made it hard to believe that
only a few hours before Bukta was yelling and capering with naked fellow-devils of the scrub.

"My people were very pleased to see the Sahib. They will never forget. When next the Sahib
goes out recruiting, he will go to my people, and they will give him as many men as we need."

Chinn kept his own counsel, except as to the shooting of the tiger, and Bukta embroidered that
tale with a shameless tongue. The skin was certainly one of the finest ever hung up in the
mess, and the first of many.  When Bukta could not accompany his boy on shooting-trips, he
took care to put him in good hands, and Chinn learned more of the mind and desire of the wild
Bhil in his marches and campings, by talks at twilight or at wayside pools, than an uninstructed
man could have come at in a lifetime.

Presently his men in the regiment grew bold to speak of their relatives-mostly in trouble-and
to lay cases of tribal custom before him. They would say, squatting in his verandah at twilight,
after the easy, confidential style of the Wuddars, that such-and-such a bachelor had run away
with such-and-such a wife at a far-off village. Now, how many cows would Chinn Sahib consider
a just fine? Or, again, if written order came from the Government that a Bhil was to repair
to a walled city of the plains to give evidence in a law-court, would it be wise to disregard
that order? On the other hand, if it were obeyed, would the rash voyager return alive?

"But what have I to do with these things?" Chinn demanded of Bukta, impatiently. "I am a soldier.
I do not know the law."

"Hoo!  Law is for fools and white men.  Give them a large and loud order, and they will abide
by it.  Thou art their law."

"But wherefore?"

Every trace of expression left Bukta's countenance.  The idea might have smitten him for the
first time.  "How can I say?" he replied. "Perhaps it is on account of the name.  A Bhil does
not love strange things.  Give them orders, Sahib-  two, three, four words at a time such as
they can carry away in their heads.  That is enough."

Chinn gave orders then, valiantly, not realising that a word spoken in haste before mess became
the dread unappealable law of villages beyond the smoky hills  was, in truth, no less than
the Law of Jan Chinn the First, who, so the whispered legend ran, had come back to earth, to
oversee the third generation, in the body and bones of his grandson.

There could be no sort of doubt in this matter. All the Bhils knew that Jan Chinn reincarnated
had honoured Bukta's village with his presence after slaying his first-in this life-tiger;
that he had eaten and drunk with the people, as he was used; and - Bukta must have drugged
Chinn's liquor very deeply-upon his back and right shoulder all men had seen the same angry
red Flying Cloud that the high Gods had set on the flesh of Jan Chinn the First when first
he came to the Bhil. As concerned the foolish white world which has no eyes, he was a slim
and young officer in the Wuddars; but his own people knew he was Jan Chinn, who had made the
Bhil a man; and, believing, they hastened to carry his words, careful never to alter them on
the way.

Because the savage and the child who plays lonely games have one horror of being laughed at
or questioned, the little folk kept their convictions to themselves; and the Colonel, who thought
he knew his regiment, never guessed that each one of the six hundred quick-footed, beady-eyed
rank-and-file, to attention beside their rifles, believed serenely and unshakenly that the
subaltern on the left flank of the line was a demi-god twice born -tutelary deity of their
land and people.  The Earth-gods themselves had stamped the incarnation, and who would dare
to doubt the handiwork of the Earth-gods?

Chinn, being practical above all things, saw that his family name served him well in the lines
and in camp.  His men gave no trouble-one does not commit regimental offences with a god in
the chair of justice-and he was sure of the best beaters in the district when he needed them.
They believed that the protection of Jan Chinn the First cloaked them, and were bold in that
belief beyond the utmost daring of excited Bhils.

His quarters began to look like an amateur natural-history museum, in spite of duplicate heads
and horns and skulls that he sent home to Devonshire.  The people, very humanly, learned the
weak side of their god. It is true he was unbribable, but bird-skins, butterflies, beetles,
and, above all, news of big game pleased him.  In other respects, too, he lived up to the Chinn
tradition. He was fever-proof. A night's sitting out over a tethered goat in a damp valley,
that would have filled the Major with a month's malaria, had no effect on him.  He was, as
they said, "salted before he was born."

Now in the autumn of his second year's service an uneasy rumour crept out of the earth and
ran about among the Bhils.  Chinn heard nothing of it till a brother- Officer said across the
mess-table:  "Your revered ancestor's on the rampage in the Satpura country.  You'd better
look him up."

"I don't want to be disrespectful, but I'm a little sick of my revered ancestor.  Bukta talks
of nothing else.  What's the old boy supposed to be doing now?"

"Riding cross-country by moonlight on his processional tiger.  That's the story.  He's been
seen by about two thousand Bhils, skipping along the tops of the Satpuras, and scaring people
to death.  They believe it devoutly, and all the Satpura chaps are worshipping away at his
shrine- tomb, I mean-like good uns. You really ought to go down there. Must be a queer thing
to see your grandfather treated as a god."

"What makes you think there's any truth in the tale?" said Chinn.

"Because all our men deny it. They say they've never heard of Chinn's tiger. Now that's a manifest
lie, because every Bhil has."

"There's only one thing you've overlooked," said the Colonel, thoughtfully. "When a local god
reappears on earth, it's always an excuse for trouble of some kind; and those Satpura Bhils
are about as wild as your grandfather left them, young un. It means something."

"Meanin' they may go on the war-path?" said Chinn.

"'Can't say - as yet. 'Shouldn't be surprised a little bit."

"I haven't been told a syllable."

"'Proves it all the more. They are keeping something back."

"Bukta tells me everything, too, as a rule. Now, why didn't he tell me that?"

Chinn put the question directly to the old man that night, and the answer surprised him.

"Why should I tell what is well known? Yes, the Clouded Tiger is out in the Satpura country."

"What do the wild Bhils think that it means?"

They do not know. They wait. Sahib, what is coming? Say only one little word, and we will be
content."

"We? What have tales from the south, where the jungly Bhils live, to do with drilled men?"
"When Jan Chinn wakes is no time for any Bhil to be quiet."

"But he has not waked, Bukta."

"Sahib "-the old man's eyes were full of tender reproof-" if he does not wish to be seen, why
does he go abroad in the moonlight? We know he is awake, but we do not know what he desires.
Is it a sign for all the Bhils, or one that concerns the Satpura folk alone? Say one little
word, Sahib, that I may carry it to the lines, and send on to our villages. Why does Jan Chinn
ride out? Who has done wrong? Is it pestilence? Is it murrain? Will our children die? Is it
a sword? Remember, Sahib, we are thy people and thy servants, and in this life I bore thee
in my arms-not knowing."

"Bukta has evidently looked on the cup this evening," Chinn thought;  "but if I can do anything
to soothe the old chap I must. It's like the Mutiny rumours on a small scale."

He dropped into a deep wicker chair, over which was thrown his first tiger-skin, and his weight
on the cushion flapped the clawed paws over his shoulders. He laid hold of them mechanically
as he spoke, drawing the painted hide, cloak-fashion, about him.

"Now will I tell the truth, Bukta," he said, leaning forward, the dried muzzle on his shoulder,
to invent a specious lie.

"I see that it is the truth," was the answer, in a shaking voice.

"Jan Chinn goes abroad among the Satpuras, riding on the Clouded Tiger, ye say? Be it so. Therefore
the sign of the wonder is for the Satpura Bhils only,  and does not touch the Bhils who plough
in the north and east, the Bhils  of the Khandesh, or any others, except the Satpura Bhils,
who, as we know,  are wild and foolish."

"It is, then, a sign for them. Good or bad?"

"Beyond doubt, good. For why should Jan Chinn make evil to those whom he has made men? The
nights over yonder are hot; it is ill to lie in one bed over-long without turning, and Jan
Chinn would look again upon his people. So he rises, whistles his Clouded Tiger, and goes abroad
a little to breathe  the cool air. If the Satpura Bhils kept to their villages, and did not
wander after dark, they would not see him.  Indeed, Bukta, it is no more than  that he would
see the light again in his own country. Send this news south, and say that it is my word."

Bukta bowed to the floor.  "Good Heavens!" thought Chinn, "and this blinking pagan is a first-class
officer, and as straight as a die!  I may as well round it off neatly."  He went on:

"If the Satpura Bhils ask the meaning of the sign, tell them that Jan Chinn would see how they
kept their old promises of good living. Perhaps they have plundered; perhaps they mean to disobey
the orders of the Government; perhaps there is a dead man in the jungle; and so Jan Chinn has
come to see."

"Is he, then, angry?"

"Bah!  Am I ever angry with my Bhils?  I say angry words, and threaten many things.  Thou knowest,
Bukta.  I have seen thee smile behind the hand.  I know, and thou knowest.  The Bhils are my
children.  I have said it many times."

"Ay.  We be thy children," said Bukta.

"And no otherwise is it with Jan Chinn, my father's father.  He would see the land he loved
and the people once again.  It is a good ghost, Bukta.  I say it. Go and tell them.  And I
do hope devoutly," he added, "that it will calm 'em down." Flinging back the tiger-skin, he
rose with a long, unguarded yawn that showed his well-kept teeth.

Bukta fled, to be received in the lines by a knot of panting inquirers.

"It is true," said Bukta.  "He wrapped him-self in the skin, and spoke from it.  He would see
his own country again. The sign is not for us; and, indeed, he is a young man. How should he
lie idle of nights? He says his bed is too hot and the air is bad.  He goes to and fro for
the love of night-running.  He has said it."

The grey-whiskered assembly shuddered.

"He says the Bhils are his children.  Ye know he does not lie.  He has said it to me."

"But what of the Satpura Bhils?  What means the sign for them?"

"Nothing.  It is only night-running, as I have said.  He rides to see if they obey the Government,
as he taught them to do in his first life."

"And what if they do not?"

"He did not say."

The light went out in Chinn's quarters.

"Look," said Bukta.  "Now he goes away. None the less it is a good ghost, as he has said. How
shall we fear Jan Chinn, who made the Bhil a man? His protection is on us; and ye know Jan
Chinn never broke a protection  spoken or written on paper.  When he is older and has found
him a wife he will lie in his bed till morning."

A commanding officer is generally aware of the regimental state of mind a little before the
men; and this is why the Colonel said, a few days later, that some one had been putting the
Fear of God into the Wuddars.  As he was the only person officially entitled to do this, it
distressed him to see such unanimous virtue.  "It's too good to last," he said.  "I only wish
I could find out what the little chaps mean."

The explanation, as it seemed to him, came at the change of the moon, when he received orders
to hold himself in readiness to "allay any possible excitement" among the Satpura Bhils, who
were, to put it mildly, uneasy because a paternal Government had sent up against them a Mahratta
State-educated vaccinator, with lancets, lymph, and an officially registered calf.  In the
language of State, they had "manifested a strong objection to all prophylactic measures," had
"forcibly detained the vaccinator," and "were on the point of neglecting or evading their tribal
obligations."

"That means they are in a blue funk - same as they were at census-time," said the Colonel;
"and if we stampede them into the hills we'll never catch 'em, in the first place, and, in
the second, they'll whoop off plundering till further orders.  'Wonder who the God-forsaken
idiot is who is trying to vaccinate a Bhil.  I knew trouble was coming.  One good thing is
that they'll only use local corps, and we can knock up something we'll call a campaign, and
let them down easy. Fancy us potting our best beaters because they don't want to be vaccinated!
They're only crazy with fear."

"Don't you think, sir," said Chinn, the next day, "that perhaps you could give me a fortnight's
shooting-leave?"

"Desertion in the face of the enemy, by Jove!" The Colonel laughed. "I might, but I'd have
to antedate it a little, because we're warned for service, as you might say. However, we'll
assume that you applied for leave three days ago, and are now well on your way south."

"I'd like to take Bukta with me."

"Of course, yes.  I think that will be the best plan. You've some kind of hereditary influence
with the little chaps, and they may listen to you when a glimpse of our uniforms would drive
them wild.  You've never been in that part of the world before, have you? Take care they don't
send you to your family vault in your youth and innocence. I believe you'll be all right if
you can get 'em to listen to you."

"I think so, sir; but if -- if they should accidentally put an -- make asses of 'emselves --
they might, you know -- I hope you'll represent that they were only frightened. There isn't
an ounce of real vice in 'em, and I should never forgive myself if any one of -- of my name
got them into trouble."

The Colonel nodded, but said nothing.

Chinn and Bukta departed at once. Bukta did not say that, ever since the official vaccinator
had been dragged into the hills by indignant Bhils, runner after runner had skulked up to the
lines, entreating, with forehead in the dust, that Jan Chinn should come and explain this unknown
horror that hung over his people.

The portent of the Clouded Tiger was now too clear.  Let Jan Chinn comfort his own, for vain
was the help of mortal man.  Bukta toned down these beseechings to a simple request for Chinn's
presence.  Nothing would have pleased the old man better than a rough-and-tumble campaign against
the Satpuras, whom he, as an "unmixed" Bhil, despised; but he had a duty to all his nation
as Jan Chinn's interpreter; and he devoutly believed that forty plagues would fall on his village
if he tampered with that obligation.  Besides, Jan Chinn knew all things, and he rode the Clouded
Tiger.

They covered thirty miles a day on foot and pony, raising the blue wall-like line of the Satpuras
as swiftly as might be.  Bukta was very silent.

They began the steep climb a little after noon, but it was near sunset ere they reached the
stone platform clinging to the side of a rifted, jungle-covered hill, where Jan Chinn the First
was laid, as he had desired, that he might overlook his people.  All India is full of neglected
graves that date from the beginning of the eighteenth century - tombs of forgotten colonels
of corps long since disbanded; mates of East India men who went on shooting expeditions and
never came back; factors, agents, writers, and ensigns of the Honourable the East India Company
by hundreds and thousands and tens of thousands.  English folk forget quickly, but natives
have long memories, and if a man has done good in his life it is remembered after his death.
The weathered marble four-square tomb of Jan Chinn was hung about with wild flowers and nuts,
packets of wax and honey, bottles of native spirits, and infamous cigars, with buffalo horns
and plumes of dried grass.  At one end was a rude clay image of a white man, in the old-fashioned
top-hat, riding on a bloated tiger.

Bukta salamed reverently as they approached. Chinn bared his head and began to pick out the
blurred inscription.  So far as he could read it ran thus - word for word, and letter for letter:

To the Memory of JOHN CHINN, Esq. Late Collector of................ithout Bloodshed or...error
of Authority Employ.only..cans of Conciliat...and Confiden. Accomplished the...tire Subjection...
a Lawless and Predatory Peop......taching them to...ish Government by a Conquest over....Minds
The most perma...and rational Mode of Domini....Governor General and Counc...engal have ordered
lhi.....erected...arted this Life Aug. 19, 184..Ag...

On the other side of the grave were ancient verses, also very worn.  As much as Chinn could
decipher said:

..the savage band.  Forsook their Haunts and b.....is Comman..mended..rals check a.st for spoil.
And.. a..ing Hamlets prove his gene....toil.  Humanit...survey......ights restor..

For some little time he leaned on the tomb thinking of this dead man of his own blood, and
of the house in Devonshire; then, nodding to the plains: "Yes; it's a big work all of it  even
my little share.  He must have been worth knowing. . . . Bukta, where are my people?"

"Not here, Sahib.  No man comes here except in full sun.  They wait above.  Let us climb and see."

But Chinn, remembering the first law of Oriental diplomacy, in an even voice answered: "I have
come this far only because the Satpura folk are foolish, and dared not visit our lines.  Now
bid them wait on me here.  I am not a servant, but the master of Bhils."

"I go -- I go," clucked the old man.  Night was falling, and at any moment Jan Chinn might
whistle up his dreaded steed from the darkening scrub.

Now for the first time in a long life Bukta disobeyed a lawful command and deserted his leader;
for he did not come back, but pressed to the flat table-top of the hill, and called softly.
Men stirred all about him - little trembling men with bows and arrows who had watched the two
since noon.

"Where is he?" whispered one.

"At his own place. He bids you come," said Bukta.

"Now?"

"Now."

"Rather let him loose the Clouded Tiger upon us. We do not go."

"Nor I, though I bore him in my arms when he was a child in this his life. Wait here till the day."

"But surely he will be angry."

"He will be very angry, for he has nothing to eat. But he has said to me many times that the
Bhils are his children. By sunlight I believe this, but - by moonlight I am not so sure. What
folly have ye Satpura pigs compassed that ye should need him at all?"

"One came to us in the name of the Government with little ghost-knives and a magic calf, meaning
to turn us into cattle by the cutting off of our arms. We were greatly afraid, but we did not
kill the man. He is here, bound - a black man; and we think he comes from the west. He said
it was an order to cut us all with knives - especially the women and the children. We did not
hear that it was an order, so we were afraid, and kept to our hills. Some of our men have taken
ponies and bullocks from the plains, and others pots and cloths and ear-rings."

"Are any slain?"

"By our men? Not yet. But the young men are blown to and fro by many rumours like flames upon
a hill.  I sent runners asking for Jan Chinn lest worse should come to us.  It was this fear
that he foretold by the sign of the Clouded Tiger.

He says it is otherwise," said Bukta; and he repeated, with amplifications, all that young
Chinn had told him at the conference of the wicker chair.

"Think you," said the questioner, at last, "that the Government will  lay hands on us?"

"Not I," Bukta rejoined. "Jan Chinn will give an order, and ye will obey. The rest is between
the Government and Jan Chinn.  I myself know something of the ghost-knives and the scratching.
It is a charm against the Small-pox. But how it is done I cannot tell. Nor need that concern you."

"If he stands by us and before the anger of the Government we will most strictly obey Jan Chinn,
except - except we do not go down to that place to-night."

They could hear young Chinn below them shouting for Bukta; but they cowered and sat still,
expecting the Clouded Tiger. The tomb had been holy ground for nearly half a century. If Jan
Chinn chose to sleep there, who had better right? But they would not come within eyeshot of
the place till broad day.

At first Chinn was exceedingly angry, till it occurred to him that Bukta most probably had
a reason (which, indeed, he had), and his own dignity might suffer if he yelled without answer.
He propped himself against the foot of the grave, and, alternately dozing and smoking, came
through the warm night proud that he was a lawful, legitimate, fever-proof Chinn.

He prepared his plan of action much as his grandfather would have done; and when Bukta appeared
in the morning with a most liberal supply of food, said nothing of the overnight desertion.
Bukta would have been relieved by an outburst of human anger; but Chinn finished his victual
leisurely, and a cheroot, ere he made any sign.

They are very much afraid," said Bukta, who was not too bold himself "It remains only to give
orders. They said they will obey if thou wilt only stand between them and the Government."

"That I know," said Chinn, strolling slowly to the table-land. A few of the elder men stood
in an irregular semicircle in an open glade; but the ruck of people - women and children  were
hidden in the thicket. They had no desire to face the first anger of Jan Chinn the First.

Seating himself on a fragment of split rock, he smoked his cheroot  to the butt, hearing men
breathe hard all about him. Then he cried, so suddenly that they jumped:

"Bring the man that was bound!"

A scuffle and a cry were followed by the appearance of a Hindoo vaccinator, quaking with fear,
bound hand and foot, as the Bhils of old were accustomed to bind their human sacrifices. He
was pushed cautiously before the presence; but young Chinn did not look at him.

"I said - the man that was bound. Is it a jest to bring me one tied like a buffalo? Since when
could the Bhil bind folk at his pleasure? Cut!"

Half a dozen hasty knives cut away the thongs, and the man crawled to Chinn, who pocketed his
case of lancets and tubes of lymph. Then, sweeping the semicircle with one comprehensive forefinger,
and in the voice of compliment, he said, clearly and distinctly: " Pigs!

"Ai!" whispered Bukta. "Now he speaks. Woe to foolish people!"

"I have come on foot from my house" (the assembly shuddered) "to make clear a matter which
any other Satpura Bhil would have seen with both eyes from  a distance. Ye know the Small-pox
who pits and scars your children so that like wasp-combs. It is an order of the Government
that whoso is  scratched on the arm with these little knives which I hold up is charmed against
her. All Sahibs are thus charmed, and very many Hindoos. This is the mark of the charm.  Look!"

He rolled back his sleeve to the armpit and showed the white scars of the vaccination-mark
on his white skin. "Come, all, and look."

A few daring spirits came up, and nodded their heads wisely. There was certainly a mark, and
they knew well what other dread marks were hidden by the shirt. Merciful was Jan Chinn, that
then and there proclaimed his godhead!

"Now all these things the man whom ye bound told you."

I did - a hundred times; but they answered with blows," groaned the operator, chafing his wrists
and ankles.

"But, being pigs, ye did not believe; and so came I here to save you, first from Small-pox,
next from a great folly of fear, and lastly, it may be,from the rope and the jail. It is no
gain to me; it is no pleasure to me: but for the sake of that one who is yonder, who made the
Bhil a man" - he pointed down the hill --" I, who am of his blood, the son of his son, come
to turn your people. And I speak the truth, as did Jan Chinn."

The crowd murmured reverently, and men stole out of the thicket by twos and threes to join
it. There was no anger in their god's face.

"These are my orders.  (Heaven send they'll take 'em, but I seem to have impressed 'em so far!)
I myself will stay among you while this man scratches your arms with the knives, after the
order of the Government. In three, or it may be five or seven, days, your arms will swell and
itch and burn. That is the power of Small-pox fighting in your base blood against the orders
of the Government I will therefore stay among you till I see that Small-pox is conquered, and
I will not go away till the men and the women and the little children show me upon their arms
such marks as I have even now showed you. I bring with me two very good guns, and a man whose
name is known among beasts and men. We will hunt together, I and he and your young men, and
the others shall eat and lie still. This is my order."

There was a long pause while victory hung in the balance. A white-haired old sinner, standing
on one uneasy leg, piped up:

"There are ponies and some few bullocks and other things for which we need a kowl [protection].
They were not taken in the way of trade."

The battle was won, and John Chinn drew a breath of relief. The young Bhils had been raiding,
but if taken swiftly all could be put straight.

"I will write a kowl so soon as the ponies, the bullocks, and the other things are counted
before me and sent back whence they came. But first we will put the Government mark on such
as have not been visited by Small-pox." In an undertone, to the vaccinator: "If you show you
are afraid you'll never see Poona again, my friend."

"There is not sufficient ample supply of vaccination for all this population," said the man.
"They destroyed the offeecial calf."

They won't know the difference. Scrape 'em and give me a couple of lancets; I'll attend to
the elders."

The aged diplomat who had demanded protection was the first victim. He fell to Chinn's hand
and dared not cry out. As soon as he was freed he dragged up a companion, and held him fast,
and the crisis became, as it were, a child's sport; for the vaccinated chased the unvaccinated
to treatment, vowing that all the tribe must suffer equally.  The women shrieked, and the children
ran howling; but Chinn laughed, and waved the pink-tipped lancet.

"It is an honour," he cried.  "Tell them, Bukta, how great an honour it is that I myself mark
them.  Nay, I cannot mark every one - the Hindoo must also do his work - but I will touch all
marks that he makes, so there will be an equal virtue in them. Thus do the Rajputs stick pigs.
Ho, brother with one eye! Catch that girl and bring her to me. She need not run away yet, for
she is not married, and I do not seek her in marriage. She will not come?  Then she shall be
shamed by her little brother, a fat boy, a bold boy. He puts out his arm like a soldier. Look!
He does not flinch at the blood. Some day he shall be in my regiment. And now, mother of many,
we will lightly touch thee, for Smallpox has been before us here. It is a true thing, indeed,
that this charm breaks the power of Mata. There will be no more pitted faces among the Satpuras,
and so ye can ask many cows for each maid to be wed."

And so on and so on - quick-poured showman's patter, sauced in the Bhil hunting-proverbs and
tales of their own brand of coarse humour till the lancets were blunted and both operators
worn out.

But, nature being the same the world over, the unvaccinated grew jealous of their marked comrades,
and came near to blows about it. Then Chinn declared himself a court of justice, no longer
a medical board, and made formal inquiry into the late robberies.

"We are the thieves of Mahadeo," said the Bhils, simply. "It is our fate, and we were frightened.
When we are frightened we always steal."

Simply and directly as children, they gave in the tale of the plunder, all but two bullocks
and some spirits that had gone amissing (these Chinn promised to make good out of his own pocket),
and ten ringleaders were despatched to the lowlands with a wonderful document, written on the
leaf of a note-book, and addressed to an Assistant District Superintendent of Police.  There
was warm calamity in that note, as Jan Chinn warned them, but anything was better  than loss
of liberty.

Armed with this protection, the repentant raiders went down-hill. They had no desire whatever
to meet Mr. Dundas Fawne of the Police, aged twenty-two, and of a cheerful countenance, nor
did they wish to revisit the scene of their robberies. Steering a middle course, they ran into
the camp of the one Government chaplain allowed to the various irregular corps through a district
of some fifteen thousand square miles, and stood before him in a cloud of dust. He was by way
of being a priest, they knew, and, what was more to the point, a good sportsman who paid his
beaters generously.

When he read Chinn's note he laughed, which they deemed a lucky omen, till he called up policemen,
who tethered the ponies and the bullocks by the piled house-gear, and laid stern hands upon
three of that smiling band of the thieves of Mahadeo.  The chaplain himself addressed them
magisterially with a riding-whip. That was painful, but Jan Chinn had prophesied it.  They
submitted, but would not give up the written protection, fearing the jail.  On their way back
they met Mr. D. Fawne, who had heard about the robberies, and was not pleased.

"Certainly," said the eldest of the gang, when the second interview was at an end, "certainly
Jan Chinn's protection has saved us our liberty, but it is as though there were many beatings
in one small piece of paper.  Put it away."

One climbed into a tree, and stuck the letter into a cleft forty feet from the ground, where
it could do no harm.  Warmed, sore, but happy, the ten returned to Jan Chinn next day, where
he sat among uneasy Bhils, all looking at their right arms, and all bound under terror of their
god's disfavour not to scratch.

"It was a good kowl," said the leader. "First the chaplain, who laughed, took away our plunder,
and beat three of us, as was promised. Next, we meet Fawne Sahib, who frowned, and asked for
the plunder. We spoke the truth, and so he beat us all, one after another, and called us chosen
names. He then gave us these two bundles "-they set down a bottle of whisky and a box of cheroots--"
and we came away.  The kowl is left in a tree, because its virtue is that so soon as we show
it to a Sahib we are beaten."

"But for that kowl" said Jan Chinn, sternly, "ye would all have been marching to jail with
a policeman on either side.  Ye come now to serve as beaters for me.  These people are unhappy,
and we will go hunting till they are well. To-night we will make a feast."

It is written in the chronicles of the Satpura Bhils, together with many other matters not
fit for print, that through five days, after the day that he had put his mark upon them, Jan
Chinn the First hunted for his people; and on the five nights of those days the tribe was gloriously
and entirely drunk. Jan Chinn bought country spirits of an awful strength, and slew wild pig
and deer beyond counting, so that if any fell sick they might have two good reasons.

Between head- and stomach-aches they found no time to think of their arms, but followed Jan
Chinn obediently through the jungles, and with each day's returning confidence men, women,
and children stole away to their villages as the little army passed by.  They carried news
that it was good and right to be scratched with ghost-knives; that Jan Chinn was indeed reincarnated
as a god of free food and drink, and that of all nations the Satpura Bhils stood first in his
favour, if they would only refrain from scratching.  Henceforward that kindly demi-god would
be connected in their minds with great gorgings and the vaccine and lancets of a paternal Government.

"And to-morrow I go back to my home," said Jan Chinn to his faithful few, whom neither spirits,
overeating, nor swollen glands could conquer. It is hard for children and savages to behave
reverently at all times to the idols of their make-belief; and they had frolicked excessively
with Jan Chinn. But the reference to his home cast a gloom on the people.

"And the Sahib will not come again?" said he who had been vaccinated first.

"That is to be seen," answered Chinn, warily.

"Nay, but come as a white man -- come as a young man whom we know and love; for, as thou alone
knowest, we are a weak people. If we again saw thy -- thy horse -" They were picking up their
courage.

"I have no horse. I came on foot with Bukta, yonder.  What is this?""Thou knowest - the thing
that thou hast chosen for a night-horse."  The little men squirmed in fear and awe.

"Night-horses?  Bukta, what is this last tale of children?"

Bukta had been a silent leader in Chinn's presence since the night of his desertion, and was
grateful for a chance-flung question.

They know, Sahib," he whispered.  "It is the Clouded Tiger. That that comes from the place
where thou didst once sleep. It is thy horse - as it has been these three generations."

"My horse! That was a dream of the Bhils."

"It is no dream. Do dreams leave the tracks of broad pugs on earth? Why make two faces before
thy people? They know of the night-ridings, and they - and they - "

"Are afraid, and would have them cease."

Bukta nodded. "If thou hast no further need of him. He is thy horse."

"The thing leaves a trail, then?" said Chinn.

"We have seen it. It is like a village road under the tomb."

"Can ye find and follow it for me?"

"By daylight - if one comes with us, and, above all, stands near by."

"I will stand close, and we will see to it that Jan Chinn does not ride any more."

The Bhils shouted the last words again and again.

>From Chinn's point of view the stalk was nothing more than an ordinary one - down-hill, through
split and crannied rocks, unsafe, perhaps, if a man did not keep his wits by him, but no worse
than twenty others he had undertaken. Yet his men - they refused absolutely to beat, and would
only trail - dripped sweat at every move. They showed the marks of enormous pugs that ran,
always down-hill, to a few hundred feet below Jan Chinn's tomb, and disappeared in a narrow-mouthed
cave. It was an insolently open road, a domestic highway, beaten without thought of concealment.

"The beggar might be paying rent and taxes," Chinn muttered ere he asked whether his friend's
taste ran to cattle or man.

"Cattle," was the answer. "Two heifers a week. We drive them for him at the foot of the hill.
It is his custom. If we did not, he might seek us."

"Blackmail and piracy," said Chinn.  "I can't say I fancy going into the cave after him. What's
to be done?"

The Bhils fell back as Chinn lodged himself behind a rock with his rifle ready. Tigers, he
knew, were shy beasts, but one who had been long cattle-fed in this sumptuous style might prove
overbold.

"He speaks!" some one whispered from the rear. "He knows, too."

"Well, of all the infernal cheek!" said Chinn. There was an angry growl from the cave - a direct
challenge.

"Come out, then," Chinn shouted. "Come out of that. Let's have a look at you."The brute knew
well enough that there was some connection between brown nude Bhils and his weekly allowance;
but the white helmet in the sunlight annoyed him, and he did not approve of the voice that
broke his rest. Lazily as a gorged snake, he dragged himself out of the cave, and stood yawning
and blinking at the entrance. The sunlight fell upon his flat right side, and  Chinn wondered.
Never had he seen a tiger marked after this fashion. Except for his head, which was staringly
barred, he was dappled - not striped, but dappled like a child's rocking-horse in rich shades
of smoky black on red gold. That portion of his belly and throat which should have been white
was orange, and his tail and paws were black.

He looked leisurely for some ten seconds, and then deliberately lowered his head, his chin
dropped and drawn in, staring intently at the man. The effect of this was to throw forward
the round arch of his skull, with two broad bands across it, while below the bands glared the
unwinking eyes; so that, head on, as he stood, he showed something like a diabolically scowling
pantomime-mask. It was a piece of natural mesmerism that he had practised many times on his
quarry, and though Chinn was by no means a terrified heifer, he stood for a while, held by
the extraordinary oddity of the attack. The head - the body seemed to have been packed away
behind it - the ferocious, skull-like head, crept nearer to the switching of an angry tail-tip
in the grass. Left and right the Bhils had scattered to let John Chinn subdue his own horse."My
word!" he thought. "He's trying to frighten me!" and fired between the saucer-like eyes, leaping
aside upon the shot.

A big coughing mass, reeking of carrion, bounded past him up the hill, and he followed discreetly.
The tiger made no attempt to turn into the jungle; he was hunting for sight and breath - nose
up, mouth open, the tremendous fore-legs scattering the gravel in spurts.

Scuppered!" said John Chinn, watching the flight.  "Now if he was a partridge he'd tower. Lungs
must be full of blood."

The brute had jerked himself over a boulder and fallen out of sight the other side. John Chinn
looked over with a ready barrel. But the red trail led straight as an arrow even to his grandfather's
tomb, and there, among the smashed spirit-bottles and the fragments of the mud image, the life
left, with  a flurry and a grunt.

"If my worthy ancestor could see that," said John Chinn, "he'd have been proud of me. Eyes,
lower jaw, and lungs. A very nice shot." He whistled for Bukta as he drew the tape over the
stiffening bulk.

"Ten - six - eight - by Jove!  It's nearly eleven - call it eleven.  Fore-arm, twenty-four
-five - seven and a half. A short tail, too: three feet one. But what a skin! Oh, Bukta! Bukta!
The men with the knives swiftly."

"Is he beyond question dead?" said an awe-stricken voice behind a rock.

"That was not the way I killed my first tiger," said Chinn. "I did not think that Bukta would
run. I had no second gun."

"It - it is the Clouded Tiger," said Bukta, un-heeding the taunt. "He is dead."

Whether all the Bhils, vaccinated and unvaccinated, of the Satpuras had lain by to see the
kill, Chinn could not say; but the whole hill's flank rustled with little men, shouting, singing,
and stamping. And yet, till he had made the first cut in the splendid skin, not a man would
take a knife; and, when the shadows fell, they ran from the red-stained tomb, and no persuasion
would bring them back till dawn. So Chinn spent a second night in the open, guarding the carcass
from jackals, and thinking about his ancestor.

He returned to the lowlands to the triumphal chant of an escorting army three hundred strong,
the Mahratta vaccinator close at his elbow, and the rudely dried skin a trophy before him.
When that army suddenly and noiselessly disappeared, as quail in high corn, he argued he was
near civilisation, and a turn in the road brought him upon the camp of a wing of his own corps.
He left the skin on a cart-tail for the world to see, and sought the Colonel.

"They're perfectly right," he explained earnestly. "There isn't an ounce of vice in 'em. They
were only frightened. I've vaccinated the whole boiling, and they like it awfully. What are
- what are we doing here, sir?"

"That's what I'm trying to find out," said the Colonel. "I don't know yet whether we're a piece
of a brigade or a police force. However, I think we'll call ourselves a police force. How did
you manage to get a Bhil vaccinated?"

"Well, sir," said Chinn, " I've been thinking it over, and, as far as I can make out, I've
got a sort of hereditary influence over 'em."

"So I know, or I wouldn't have sent you; but what, exactly?"

"It's rather rummy.  It seems, from what I can make out, that I'm my own grandfather reincarnated,
and I've been disturbing the peace of the country by riding a pad-tiger of nights. If I hadn't
done that, I don't think they'd have objected to the vaccination; but the two together were
more than they could stand. And so, sir, I've vaccinated 'em, and shot my tiger-horse as a
sort o' proof of good faith. You never saw such a skin in your life."

The Colonel tugged his moustache thought-fully. "Now, how the deuce," said he, "am I to include
that in my report?"

Indeed, the official version of the Bhils' anti-vaccination stampede said nothing about Lieutenant
John Chinn, his godship. But Bukta knew, and the corps knew, and every Bhil in the Satpura
hills knew.

And now Bukta is zealous that John Chinn shall swiftly be wedded and impart his powers to a
son; for if the Chinn succession fails, and the little Bhils are left to their own imaginings,
there will be fresh trouble in the Satpuras.

End of, "THE TOMB OF HIS ANCESTORS"

THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP SEA

All supplies very bad and dear, and there are no facilities for even the smallest repairs.
- Sailing Directions.

Her nationality was British, but you will not find her house-flag in the list of our mercantile
marine. She was a nine-hundred-ton, iron, schooner-rigged, screw cargo-boat, differing externally
in no way from any other tramp of the sea. But it is with steamers as it is with men. There
are those who will for a consideration sail extremely close to the wind; and, in the present
state of a fallen world, such people and such steamers have their use. From the hour that the
Aglaia first entered the Clyde -- new, shiny, and innocent, with a quart of cheap champagne
trickling down her cut-water -- Fate and her owner, who was also her captain, decreed that
she should deal with embarrassed crowned heads, fleeing Presidents, financiers of over-extended
ability, women to whom change of air was imperative, and the lesser law-breaking Powers. Her
career led her sometimes into the Admiralty Courts, where the sworn statements of her skipper
filled his brethren with envy.  The mariner cannot tell or act a lie in the face of the sea,
or mis-lead a tempest; but, as lawyers have discovered, he makes up for chances withheld when
he returns to shore, an affidavit in either hand.

The Aglaia figured with distinction in the great Mackinaw salvage-case. It was her first slip
from virtue, and she learned how to change her name, but not her heart, and to run across the
sea. As the Guiding Light  she was very badly wanted in a South American port for the little
matter of entering harbour at full speed, colliding with a coal-hulk and the State's only man-of-war,
just as that man-of-war was going to coal.  She put to sea without explanations, though three
forts fired at her for half an hour. As the Julia M'Gregor she had been concerned in picking
up from a raft certain gentlemen who should have stayed in Noumea, but who preferred making
themselves vastly unpleasant to authority in quite another quarter of the world; and as the
Shah-in-Shah she had been overtaken on the high seas, indecently full of munitions of war,
by the cruiser of an agitated Power at issue with its neighbour. That time she was very nearly
sunk, and her riddled hull gave eminent lawyers of two countries great profit.  After a season
she reappeared as the Martin Hunt painted a dull slate-colour, with pure saffron funnel, and
boats of robin's-egg blue, engaging in the Odessa trade till she was invited (and the invitation
could not well be disregarded) to keep away from Black Sea ports altogether.

She had ridden through many waves of depression. Freights might drop out of sight, Seamen's
Unions throw spanners and nuts at certificated masters, or stevedores combine till cargo perished
on the dock-head; but the boat of many names came and went, busy, alert, and inconspicuous
always. Her skipper made no complaint of hard times, and port officers observed that her crew
signed and signed again with the regularity of Atlantic liner boatswains. Her name she changed
as occasion called; her well-paid crew never; and a large percentage of the profits of her
voyages was spent with an open hand on her engine-room.  She never troubled the underwriters,
and very seldom stopped to talk with a signal-station, for her business was urgent and private.

But an end came to her tradings, and she perished in this manner. Deep peace brooded over Europe,
Asia, Africa, America, Australasia, and Polynesia.  The Powers dealt together more or less
honestly; banks paid their depositors to the hour; diamonds of price came safely to the hands
of their owners; Republics rested content with their Dictators; diplomats found no one whose
presence in the least incommoded them; monarchs lived openly with their lawfully wedded wives.
It was as though the whole earth had put on its best Sunday bib and tucker; and business was
very bad for the Martin Hunt. The great, virtuous calm engulfed her, slate sides, yellow funnel,
and all, but cast up in another hemisphere the steam whaler Haliotis, black and rusty, with
a manure-coloured funnel, a litter of dingy white boats, and an enormous stove, or furnace,
for boiling blubber on her forward well-deck.  There could be no doubt that her trip was successful,
for she lay at several ports not too well known, and the smoke of her trying-out insulted the
beaches.

Anon she departed, at the speed of the average London four-wheeler, and entered a semi-inland
sea, warm, still, and blue, which is, perhaps, the most strictly preserved water in the world.
There she stayed for a certain time, and the great stars of those mild skies beheld her playing
puss-in-the-corner among islands where whales are never found.  All that while she smelt abominably,
and the smell, though fishy, was not whalesome.  One evening calamity descended upon her from
the island of Pygang-Watai, and she fled, while her crew jeered at a fat black-and-brown gunboat
puffing far behind. They knew to the last revolution the capacity of every boat, on those seas,
that they were anxious to avoid.  A British ship with a good conscience does not, as a rule,
flee from the  man-of-war of a foreign Power, and it is also  considered a breach of etiquette
to stop and search British ships at sea.  These things the skipper of the Haliotis did not
pause to prove, but held on at an inspiriting eleven knots an hour till nightfall. One thing
only he overlooked.

The Power that kept an expensive steam-patrol moving up and down those waters (they had dodged
the two regular ships of the station with an ease that bred contempt) had newly brought up
a third and a fourteen-knot boat with a clean bottom to help the work; and that was why the
Haliotis, driving hard from the east to the west, found herself at daylight in such a position
that she could not help seeing an arrangement of four flags, a mile and a half behind, which
read:  "Heave to, or take the consequences!"

She had her choice, and she took it.  The end came when, presuming on her lighter draught,
she tried to draw away northward over a friendly shoal. The shell that arrived by way of the
Chief Engineer's cabin was some five inches in diameter, with a practice, not a bursting, charge.
It had been intended to cross her bows, and that was why it knocked the framed portrait of
the Chief Engineer's wife - and she was a very pretty girl - on to the floor, splintered his
wash-hand stand, crossed the alleyway into the engine-room, and striking on a grating, dropped
directly in front of the forward engine, where it burst, neatly fracturing both the bolts that
held the connecting-rod to the forward crank.

What follows is worth consideration.  The forward engine had no more work to do.  Its released
piston-rod, therefore, drove up fiercely, with nothing to check it, and started most of the
nuts of the cylinder-cover.  It came down again, the full weight of the steam behind it, and
the foot of the disconnected connecting-rod, useless as the leg of a man with a sprained ankle,
flung out to the right and struck the starboard, or right-hand, cast-iron supporting-column
of the forward engine, cracking it clean through about six inches above the base, and wedging
the upper portion outwards three inches towards the ship's side.  There the connecting-rod
jammed.  Meantime, the after-engine, being as yet unembarrassed, went on with its work, and
in so doing brought round at its next revolution the crank of the forward engine, which smote
the already jammed connecting-rod, bending it and therewith the piston-rod cross-head- the
big cross-piece that slides up and down so smoothly.

The cross-head jammed sideways in the guides, and, in addition to putting further pressure
on the already broken starboard supporting-column, cracked the port, or left-hand, supporting-column
in two or three places.  There being nothing more that could be made to move, the engines brought
up, all standing, with a hiccup that seemed to lift the Haliotis a foot out of the water; and
the engine-room staff, opening every steam outlet that they could find in the confusion, arrived
on deck somewhat scalded, but calm. There was a sound below of things happening - a rushing,
clicking, purring, grunting, rattling noise that did not last for more than a minute. It was
the machinery adjusting itself, on the spur of the moment, to a hundred altered conditions.
Mr. Wardrop, one foot on the upper grating, inclined his ear sideways, and groaned.  You cannot
stop engines working at twelve knots an hour in three seconds without disorganising them. 
The Haliotis slid forward in a cloud of steam, shrieking like a wounded horse. There was nothing
more to do. The five-inch shell with a reduced charge had settled the situation. And when you
are full, all three holds, of strictly preserved pearls; when you have cleaned out the Tanna
Bank, the Sea-Horse Bank, and four other banks from one end to the other of the Amanala Sea
-when you have ripped out the very heart of a rich Government monopoly so that five years will
not repair your wrong-doings - you must smile and take what is in store.  But the skipper reflected,
as a launch put out from the man-of-war, that he had been bombarded on the high seas, with
the British flag - several of them - picturesquely disposed above him, and tried to find comfort
from the thought.

Where," said the stolid naval lieutenant hoisting himself aboard, "where are those dam' pearls?"

They were there beyond evasion.  No affidavit could do away with the fearful smell of decayed
oysters, the diving-dresses, and the shell-littered hatches.  They were there to the value
of seventy thousand pounds, more or less; and every pound poached.

The man-of-war was annoyed; for she had used up many tons of coal, she had strained her tubes,
and, worse than all, her officers and crew had been hurried.  Every one on the Haliotis was
arrested and rearrested several times, as each officer came aboard; then they were told by
what they esteemed to be the equivalent of a midshipman that they were to consider themselves
prisoners, and finally were put under arrest.

It's not the least good," said the skipper, suavely.  "You'd much better send us a tow - "

"Be still - you are arrest!" was the reply.

"Where the devil do you expect we are going to escape to?"  We're helpless.  You've got to
tow us into somewhere, and explain why you fired on us.  Mr. Wardrop, we're helpless, aren't we?"

"Ruined from end to end," said the man of machinery.  "If she rolls, the forward cylinder will
come down and go through her bottom. Both columns are clean cut through.  There's nothing to
hold anything up."

The council of war clanked off to see if Mr. Wardrop's words were true.  He warned them that
it was as much as a man's life was worth to enter the engine-room, and they contented themselves
with a distant inspection through the thinning steam.  The Haliotis lifted to the long, easy
swell, and the starboard  supporting-column ground a trifle, as a man grits his teeth under
the knife.  The forward cylinder was depending on that unknown force men call the pertinacity
of materials, which now and then balances that other heartbreaking power, the perversity of
inanimate things.

"You see!" said Mr. Wardrop, hurrying them away.  "The engines aren't worth their price as
old iron."

"We tow," was the answer.  "Afterwards we shall confiscate."

The man-of-war was short-handed, and did not see the necessity for putting a prize-crew aboard
the Haliotis.  So she sent one sublieutenant, whom the skipper kept very drunk, for he did
not wish to make the tow too easy, and, moreover, he had an inconspicuous little rope hanging
from the stem of his ship.

Then they began to tow at an average speed of four knots an hour. The Haliotis was very hard
to move, and the gunnery-lieutenant, who had fired the five-inch shell, had leisure to think
upon consequences. Mr. Wardrop was the busy man. He borrowed all the crew to shore up the cylinders
with spars and blocks from the bottom and sides of the ship. It was a day's risky work; but
anything was better than drowning at the end of a tow-rope; and if the forward cylinder had
fallen,it would have made its way to the sea-bed, and taken the Haliotis after.

"Where are we going to, and how long will they tow us?" he asked of the skipper.

"God knows! and this prize-lieutenant's drunk. What do you think you can do?"

"There's just the bare chance," Mr. Wardrop whispered, though no one was within hearing -"there's
just the bare chance o' repairin' her, if a man knew how. They've twisted the very guts out
of her, bringing her up with that jerk; but I'm saying that, with time and patience, there's
just the chance o' making steam yet. We could do it."

The skipper's eye brightened. "Do you mean," he began, "that she is any good?"

"Oh, no," said Mr. Wardrop. "She'll need three thousand pounds in repairs, at the lowest, if
she's to take the sea again, an' that apart from any injury to her structure.  She's like a
man fallen down five pair o' stairs. We can't tell for months what has happened; but we know
she'll never be good again without a new inside. Ye should see the condenser-tubes an' the
steam connections to the donkey, for two things only. I'm not afraid of them repairin' her.
I'm afraid of them stealin' things."

"They've fired on us. They'll have to explain that."

"Our reputation's not good enough to ask for explanations. Let's take what we have and be thankful.
Ye would not have consuls remembern' the Guidin' Light, an' the Shah-in-Shah, an' the Aglaia,
at this most alarmin' crisis. We've been no better than pirates these ten years. Under Providence
we're no worse than thieves now. We've much to be thankful for - if we e'er get back to her."

"Make it your own way, then," said the skipper. "If there's the least chance - "

"I'll leave none," said Mr. Wardrop - "none that they'll dare to take. Keep her heavy on the
tow, for we need time."

The skipper never interfered with the affairs of the engine-room, and Mr. Wardrop - an artist
in his profession - turned to and composed a work terrible and forbidding. His background was
the dark-grained sides of the engine-room; his material the metals of power and strength, helped
out with spars, baulks, and ropes.  The man-of-war towed sullenly and viciously. The Haliotis
behind her hummed like a hive before swarming. With extra and totally unneeded spars her crew
blocked up the space round the forward engine till it resembled a statue in its scaffolding,
and the butts of the shores interfered with every view that a dispassionate eye might wish
to take. And that the dispassionate mind might be swiftly shaken out of its calm, the well-sunk
bolts of the shores were wrapped round untidily with loose ends of ropes, giving a studied
effect of most dangerous insecurity. Next, Mr. Wardrop took up a collection from the after-engine,
which, as you will remember, had not been affected in the general wreck. The cylinder escape-valve
he abolished with a flogging-hammer. It is difficult in far-off ports to come by such valves,
unless, like Mr. Wardrop, you keep duplicates in store. At the same time men took off the nuts
of two of the great holding-down bolts that serve to keep the engines in place on their solid
bed. An engine violently arrested in mid-career may easily jerk off the nut of a holding-down
bolt, and this accident looked very natural.

Passing along the tunnel, he removed several shaft coupling-bolts and -nuts, scattering other
and ancient pieces of iron underfoot. Cylinder-bolts he cut off to the number of six from the
after-engine cylinder, so that it might match its neighbour, and stuffed the bilge - and feed-pumps
with cotton-waste.  Then he made up a neat bundle of the various odds and ends that he had
gathered from the engines - little things like nuts and valve-spindles, all carefully tallowed
- and retired with them under the floor of the engine-room, where he sighed, being fat, as
he passed from manhole to manhole of the double bottom, and in a fairly dry submarine compartment
hid them. Any engineer, particularly in an unfriendly port, has a right to keep his spare stores
where he chooses; and the foot of one of the cylinder shores blocked all entrance into the
regular store-room, even if that had not been already closed with steel wedges. In conclusion,
he disconnected the after-engine, laid piston and connecting-rod, carefully tallowed, where
it would be most inconvenient to the casual visitor, took out three of the eight collars of
the thrust-block, hid them where only he could find them again, filled the boilers by hand,
wedged the sliding doors of the coal-bunkers, and rested from his labours. The engine-room
was a cemetery, and it did not need the contents of the ash-lift through the skylight to make
it any worse.

He invited the skipper to look at the completed work.

Saw ye ever such a forsaken wreck as that ?" said he, proudly.  "It almost frights me to go
under those shores. Now, what d' you think they'll do to us?"

"Wait till we see," said the skipper. " It'll be bad enough when it comes."

He was not wrong. The pleasant days of towing ended all too soon, though the Haliotis trailed
behind her a heavily weighted jib stayed out into the shape of a pocket; and Mr. Wardrop was
no longer an artist of imagination, but one of seven-and-twenty prisoners in a prison full
of insects. The man-of-war had towed them to the nearest port, not to the headquarters of the
colony, and when Mr. Wardrop saw the dismal little harbour, with its ragged line of Chinese
junks, its one crazy tug, and the boat-building shed that, under the charge of a philosophical
Malay, represented a dockyard, he sighed and shook his head.

"I did well," he said. "This is the habitation o' wreckers an' thieves. We're at the uttermost
ends of the earth. Think you they'll ever know in England?"

"Doesn't look like it," said the skipper.

They were marched ashore with what they stood up in, under a generous escort, and were judged
according to the customs of the country, which, though excellent, are a little out of date.
There were the pearls; there were the poachers; and there sat a small but hot Governor. He
consulted for a while, and then things began to move with speed, for he did not wish to keep
a hungry crew at large on the beach, and the man-of-war had gone up the coast.  With a wave
of his hand - a stroke of the pen was not necessary - he consigned them to the black gang-tana,
the back-country, and the hand of the Law removed them from his sight and the knowledge of
men.  They were marched into the palms, and the back-country swallowed them up - all the crew
of the Haliotis.

Deep peace continued to brood over Europe, Asia, Africa, America,

Australasia, and Polynesia.

It was the firing that did it. They should have kept their counsel; but when a few thousand
foreigners are bursting with joy over the fact that a ship under the British flag has been
fired at on the high seas, news travels quickly; and when it came out that the pearl-stealing
crew had not been allowed access to their consul (there was no consul within a few hundred
miles of that lonely port) even the friendliest of Powers has a right to ask questions.  The
great heart of the British public was beating furiously on account of the performance of a
notorious race-horse, and had not a throb to waste on distant accidents; but somewhere deep
in the hull of the ship of State there is machinery which more or less accurately takes charge
of foreign affairs. That machinery began to revolve, and who so shocked and surprised as the
Power that had captured the Haliotis? It explained that colonial governors and far-away men-of-war
were difficult to control, and promised that it would most certainly make an example both of
the Governor and the vessel.  As for the crew reported to be pressed into military service
in tropical climes, it would produce them as soon as possible, and it would apologise, if necessary.
Now, no apologies were needed.  When one nation apologises to an-other, millions of amateurs
who have no earthly concern with the difficulty hurl themselves into the strife and embarrass
the trained specialist. It was requested that the crew be found, if they were still alive -
they had been eight months beyond knowledge - and it was promised that all would be forgotten.

The little Governor of the little port was pleased with himself.  Seven-and-twenty white men
made a very compact force to throw away on a war that had neither beginning nor end - a jungle
and stockade fight that flickered and smouldered through the wet hot years in the hills a hundred
miles away, and was the heritage of every wearied official.  He had, he thought, deserved well
of his country; and if only some one would buy the unhappy Haliotis, moored in the harbour
below his verandah, his cup would be full.  He looked at the neatly silvered lamps that he
had taken from her cabins, and thought of much that might be turned to account.  But his countrymen
in that moist climate had no spirit.  They would peep into the silent engine-room, and shake
their heads.  Even the men-of-war would not tow her further up the coast, where the Governor
believed that she could be repaired.  She was a bad bargain; but her cabin carpets were undeniably
beautiful, and his wife approved of her mirrors.

Three hours later cables were bursting round him like shells, for, though he knew it not, he
was being offered as a sacrifice by the nether to the upper millstone, and his superiors had
no regard for his feelings.  He had, said the cables, grossly exceeded his power, and failed
to report on events. He would, therefore - at this he cast himself back in his hammock - produce
the crew of the Haliotis.  He would send for them, and, if that failed, he would put his dignity
on a pony and fetch them himself. He had no conceivable right to make pearl-poachers serve
in any war. He would be held responsible.

Next morning the cables wished to know whether he had found the crew of the Haliotis. They
were to be found, freed and fed - he was to feed them - till such time as they could be sent
to the nearest English port in a man-of-war. If you abuse a man long enough in great words
flashed over the sea-beds, things happen. The Governor sent inland swiftly for his prisoners,
who were also soldiers; and never was a militia regiment more anxious to reduce its strength.
No power short of death could make these mad men wear the uniform of their service.  They would
not fight, except with their fellows, and it was for that reason the regiment had not gone
to war, but stayed in a stockade, reasoning with the new troops.  The autumn campaign had been
a fiasco, but here were the Englishmen.  All the regiment marched back to guard them, and the
hairy enemy, armed with blow-pipes, rejoiced in the forest. Five of the crew had died, but
there lined up on the Governor's verandah two-and-twenty men marked about the legs with the
scars of leech-bites.  A few of them wore fringes that had once been trousers; the others used
loin-cloths of gay patterns; and they existed beautifully but simply in the Governor's verandah,
and when he came out they sang at him.  When you have lost seventy thousand pounds' worth of
pearls, your pay, your ship, and all your clothes, and have lived in bondage for five months
beyond the faintest pretences of civilisation, you know what true independence means, for you
become the happiest of created things - natural man.

The Governor told the crew that they were evil, and they asked for food. When he saw how they
ate, and when he remembered that none of the pearl patrol-boats were expected for two months,
he sighed. But the crew of the Haliotis lay down in the verandah, and said that they were pensioners
of the Governor's bounty.  A grey-bearded man, fat and bald-headed, his one garment a green-and-yellow
loin-cloth, saw the Haliotis in the harbour, and bellowed for joy. The men crowded to the verandah-rail,
kicking aside the long cane chairs. They pointed,  gesticulated, and argued freely, without
shame. The militia regiment sat down in the Governor's garden. The Governor retired to his
hammock - it was as easy to be killed lying as standing-and his women squeaked from the shuttered
rooms.

"She sold?" said the grey~bearded man, pointing to the Haliotis. He was Mr. Wardrop.

"No good," said the Governor, shaking his head. "No one come buy."

"He's taken my lamps, though," said the skipper. He wore one leg of a pair of trousers, and
his eye wandered along the verandah. The Governor quailed. There were cuddy camp-stools and
the skipper's writing-table in plain sight.

"They've cleaned her out, o' course," said Mr. Wardrop. "They would. We'll go aboard and take
an inventory. See!" He waved his hands over the harbour.  "We - live - there - now. Sorry?"

The Governor smiled a smile of relief.

"He's glad of that," said one of the crew, reflectively.  "I shouldn't wonder."

They flocked down to the harbour-front, the militia regiment clattering behind, and embarked
themselves in what they found - it happened to be the Governor's boat.  Then they disappeared
over the bulwarks of the Haliotis, and the Governor prayed that they might find occupation inside.

Mr. Wardrop's first bound took him to the engine-room; and when the others were patting the
well-remembered decks, they heard him giving God thanks that things were as he had left them.
The wrecked engines stood over his head untouched; no inexpert hand had meddled with his shores;
the steel wedges of the store-room were rusted home; and, best of all, the hundred and sixty
tons of good Australian coal in the bunkers had not diminished.

"I don't understand it," said Mr. Wardrop. "Any Malay knows the use o' copper.  They ought
to have cut away the pipes.  And with Chinese junks coming here, too.  It's a special interposition
o' Providence."

"You think so," said the skipper, from above. "There's only been one thief here, and he's cleaned
her out of all my things, anyhow."

Here the skipper spoke less than the truth, for under the planking of his cabin, only to be
reached by a chisel, lay a little money which never drew any interest - his sheet-anchor to
windward.  It was all in clean sovereigns that pass current the world over, and might have
amounted to more than a hundred pounds.

"He's left me alone.  Let's thank God," repeated Mr. Wardrop.

"He's taken everything else; look!"

The Haliotis, except as to her engine-room, had been systematically and scientifically gutted
from one end to the other, and there was strong evidence that an unclean guard had camped in
the skipper's cabin to regulate that plunder.  She lacked glass, plate, crockery, cutlery,
mattresses, cuddy carpets and chairs, all boats, and her copper ventilators.  These things
had been removed, with her sails and as much of the wire rigging as would not imperil the safety
of the masts.

"He must have sold those," said the skipper. "The other things are in  his house, I suppose."

Every fitting that could be pried or screwed out was gone.  Port, starboard, and masthead lights;
teak gratings; sliding sashes of the deckhouse; the captain's chest of drawers, with charts
and chart-table; photographs, brackets, and looking-glasses; cabin doors; rubber cuddy mats;
hatch-irons; half the funnel-stays; cork fenders; carpenter's grindstone and tool-chest; holystones,
swabs, squeegees; all cabin and pantry lamps; galley-fittings en bloc; flags and  flag-locker;
clocks, chronometers; the forward compass and the ship's bell and belfry, were among the missing.

There were great scarred marks on the deck-planking over which the cargo-derricks had been
hauled. One must have fallen by the way, for the bulwark-rails were smashed and bent and the
side-plates bruised.

"It's the Governor," said the skipper  "He's been selling her on the instalment plan."

"Let's go up with spanners and shovels, and kill 'em all," shouted the crew. "Let's drown him,
and keep the woman!"

"Then we'll be shot by that black-and-tan regiment - our regiment. What's the trouble ashore
~ They've camped our regiment on the beach."

"We're cut off; that's all. Go and see what they want," said Mr. Wardrop. "You've the trousers."

In his simple way the Governor was a strategist. He did not desire that the crew of the Haliotis
should come ashore again, either singly or in detachments, and he proposed to turn their steamer
into a convict-hulk. They would wait - he explained this from the quay to the skipper in the
barge - and they would continue to wait till the man-of-war came along, exactly where they
were. If one of them set foot ashore, the entire regiment would open fire, and he would not
scruple to use the two cannon of the town. Meantime food would be sent  daily in a boat under
an armed escort. The skipper, bare to the waist, and rowing, could only grind his teeth; and
the Governor improved the occasion, and revenged himself for the bitter words in the cables,
by saying what he thought of the morals and manners of the crew. The barge returned to the
Haliotis in silence, and the skipper climbed aboard, white on the cheek-bones and blue about
the nostrils. 

The Secretary of War has recently visited Japan and China in connection with his tour to the Philippines,
and a large delegation of American business men are at present traveling
in China. This exchange of friendly visits has had the happy effect
of even further strengthening our friendly international relations.

LATIN AMERICA.

During the past year several of our southern sister Republics celebrated
the one hundredth anniversary of their independence. In honor of these
events, special embassies were sent from this country to Argentina,
Chile, and Mexico, where the gracious reception and splendid hospitality
extended them manifested the cordial relations and friendship existing
between those countries and the United States, relations which I am
happy to believe have never before been upon so high a plane and so
solid a basis as at present.

The Congressional commission appointed under a concurrent resolution to
attend the festivities celebrating the centennial anniversary of Mexican
independence, together with a special ambassador, were received with the highest
honors and with the greatest cordiality, and returned with the report
of the bounteous hospitality and warm reception of President Diaz and
the Mexican people, which left no doubt of the desire of the immediately
neighboring Republic to continue the mutually beneficial and intimate
relations which I feel sure the two governments will ever cherish.

At the Fourth Pan-American Conference which met in Buenos Aires during
July and August last, after seven weeks of harmonious deliberation, three
conventions were signed providing for the regulation of trade-marks,
patents, and copyrights, which when ratified by the different Governments,
will go far toward furnishing to American authors, patentees, and
owners of trade-marks the protection needed in localities where heretofore
it has been either lacking or inadequate.

Further, a convention for the arbitration of pecuniary claims was
signed and a number of important resolutions passed.

The Conventions will in due course be transmitted to the Senate,
and the report of the Delegation of the United States will be communicated
to the Congress for its information.

The special cordiality between representative men from all parts of
America which was shown at this Conference cannot fail to react upon
and draw still closer the relations between the countries which took
part in it.

The International Bureau of American Republics is doing a broad and useful
work for Pan American commerce and comity. Its duties were much enlarged
by the International Conference of American States at Buenos Aires
and its name was shortened to the more practical and expressive term
of Pan American Union.

Located now in its new building, which was specially dedicated April 26 of this
year to the development of friendship, trade and peace among the
American nations, it has improved instrumentalities to serve the twenty-two
republics of this hemisphere.

I am glad to say that the action of the United States in its desire
to remove imminent danger of war between Peru and Ecuador growing out of a
boundary dispute, with the cooperation of Brazil and the Argentine
Republic as joint mediators with this Government, has already resulted
successfully in preventing war.

The Government of Chile, while not one of the mediators, lent effective aid in furtherance of
a preliminary agreement likely to lead on to an amicable settlement, and it is not doubted that the
good offices of the mediating Powers and the conciliatory cooperation
of the Governments directly interested will finally lead to a removal
of this perennial cause of friction between Ecuador and Peru.

The inestimable value of cordial cooperation between the sister republics
of America for the maintenance of peace in this hemisphere has never
been more clearly shown than in this mediation, by which three American
Governments have given to this hemisphere the honor of first invoking
the most far-reaching provisions of The Hague Convention for the pacific
settlement of international disputes.

There has been signed by the representatives of the United States and Mexico a protocol submitting
to the United States-Mexican Boundary Commission (whose membership
for the purpose of this case is to be increased by the addition of a
citizen of Canada) the question of sovereignty over the Chamizal
Tract which lies within the present physical boundaries of the city
of E1 Paso, Tex. The determination of this question will remove a
source of no little annoyance to the two Governments.

The Republic of Honduras has for many years been burdened with a heavy
bonded debt held in Europe, the interest on which long ago fell in arrears.
Finally conditions were such that it became imperative to refund
the debt and place the finances of the Republic upon a sound basis.

Last year a group of American bankers undertook to do this and to advance funds for railway and
other improvements contributing directly to the country's prosperity
and commerce--an arrangement which has long been desired by this
Government.

Negotiations to this end have been under way for more than a year
and it is now confidently believed that a short time will suffice
to conclude an arrangement which will be satisfactory to the foreign
creditors, eminently advantageous to Honduras, and highly creditable
to the judgment and foresight of the Honduranean Government.

This is
much to be desired since, as recognized by the Washington Conventions, a strong
Honduras would tend immensely to the progress and prosperity of Central
America.

During the past year the Republic of Nicaragua has been the scene
of internecine struggle.

General Zelaya, for seventeen years the absolute ruler of Nicaragua, was throughout
his career the disturber of Central America and opposed every plan for
the promotion of peace and friendly relations between the five republics.

When the people of Nicaragua were finally driven into rebellion by his
lawless exactions, he violated the laws of war by the unwarranted
execution of two American citizens who had regularly enlisted in the
ranks of the revolutionists.

This and other offenses made it the duty of the American Government to take measures
with a view to ultimate reparation and for the safeguarding of its
interests. This involved the breaking off of all diplomatic relations
with the Zelaya Government for the reasons laid down in a communication
from the Secretary of State, which also notified the contending factions
in Nicaragua that this Government would hold each to strict accountability
for outrages on the rights of American citizens.

American forces were sent to both coasts of Nicaragua to be in readiness should occasion arise to protect
Americans and their interests, and remained there until the war was over and peace had returned to that
unfortunate country.

These events, together with Zelaya's continued exactions, brought him
so clearly to the bar of public opinion that he was forced to resign and to
take refuge abroad.

In the above-mentioned communication of the Secretary of State to the
Charge d'Affaires of the Zelaya Government, the opinion was expressed
that the revolution represented the wishes of the majority of the
Nicaraguan people.

This has now been proved beyond doubt by the fact that since the complete
overthrow of the Madriz Government and the occupation of the capital
by the forces of the revolution, all factions have united to maintain
public order and as a result of discussion with an Agent of this
Government, sent to Managua at the request of the Provisional Government,
comprehensive plans are being made for the future welfare of Nicaragua,
including the rehabilitation of public credit.

The moderation and conciliatory spirit shown by the various factions
give ground for the confident hope that Nicaragua will soon take its
rightful place among the law-abiding and progressive countries of
the world.

It gratifies me exceedingly to announce that the Argentine Republic
some months ago placed with American manufacturers a contract for
the construction of two battle-ships and certain additional naval
equipment.

The extent of this work and its importance to the Argentine Republic make
the placing of the bid an earnest of friendly feeling toward the United
States.

TARIFF NEGOTIATIONS.

The new tariff law, in section 2, respecting the maximum and minimum
tariffs of the United States, which provisions came into effect on
April 1, 1910, imposed upon the President the responsibility of determining
prior to that date whether or not any undue discrimination existed
against the United States and its products in any country of the world
with which we sustained commercial relations.

In the case of several countries instances of apparent undue discrimination
against American commerce were found to exist.

These discriminations were removed by negotiation. Prior to April 1, 1910,
when the maximum tariff was to come into operation with respect to importations
from all those countries in whose favor no proclamation applying
the minimum tariff should be issued by the President, one hundred
and thirty-four such proclamations were issued.

This series of proclamations embraced the entire commercial world, and hence
the minimum tariff of the United States has been given universal application,
thus testifying to the satisfactory character of our trade relations
with foreign countries.

Marked advantages to the commerce of the United States were obtained through
these tariff settlements. Foreign nations are fully cognizant of the
fact that under section 2 of the tariff act the President is required,
whenever he is satisfied that the treatment accorded by them to the products
of the United States is not such as to entitle them to the benefits
of the minimum tariff of the United States, to withdraw those benefits
by proclamation giving ninety days' notice, after which the maximum
tariff will apply to their dutiable products entering the United States.

In its general operation this section of the tariff law has thus far proved
a guaranty of continued commercial peace, although there are unfortunately
instances where foreign governments deal arbitrarily with American
interests within their jurisdiction in a manner injurious and inequitable.

The

policy of broader and closer trade relations with the Dominion of Canada
which was initiated in the adjustment of the maximum and minimum provisions
of the Tariff Act of August, 1909, has proved mutually beneficial. It
justifies further efforts for the readjustment of the commercial relations
of the two countries so that their commerce may follow the channels
natural to contiguous countries and be commensurate with the steady
expansion of trade and industry on both sides of the boundary line.

The reciprocation on the part of the Dominion Government of the sentiment
which was expressed by this Government was followed in October by the suggestion
that it would be glad to have the negotiations, which had been temporarily
suspended during the summer, resumed.

In accordance with this suggestion the Secretary of State, by my direction,
dispatched two representatives of the Department of State as special
commissioners to Ottawa to confer with representatives of the Dominion
Government.

They were authorized to take such steps for formulating a reciprocal
trade agreement as might be necessary and to receive and consider any
propositions which the Dominion Government might care to submit.

Pursuant
to the instructions issued conferences were held by these commissioners
with officials of the Dominion Government at Ottawa in the early part of
November.

The negotiations were conducted on both sides in a spirit of mutual accommodation.
The discussion of the common commercial interests of the two countries
had for its object a satisfactory basis for a trade arrangement which
offers the prospect of a freer interchange for the products of the United
States and of Canada.

The conferences were adjourned to be resumed in Washington in January,
when it is hoped that the aspiration of both Governments for a mutually
advantageous measure of reciprocity will be realized.

FOSTERING FOREIGN TRADE.

All these tariff negotiations, so vital to our commerce and industry,
and the duty of jealously guarding the equitable and just treatment of our
products, capital, and industry abroad devolve upon the Department
of State.

The Argentine battle-ship contracts, like the subsequent important one
for Argentine railway equipment, and those for Cuban Government vessels,
were secured for our manufacturers largely through the good offices
of the Department of State.

The efforts of that Department to secure for citizens of the United States
equal opportunities in the markets of the world and to expand American
commerce have been most successful.

The volume of business obtained in new fields of competition and upon
new lines is already very great and Congress is urged to continue
to support the Department of State in its endeavors for further trade
expansion.

Our foreign trade merits the best support of the Government and the
most earnest endeavor of our manufacturers and merchants, who, if
they do not already in all cases need a foreign market, are certain
soon to become dependent on it.

Therefore, now is the time to secure a strong position in this field.

AMERICAN
BRANCH BANKS ABROAD.

I cannot leave this subject without emphasizing the necessity of such
legislation as will make possible and convenient the establishment
of American banks and branches of American banks in foreign countries.

Only by such means can our foreign trade be favorably financed, necessary
credits be arranged, and proper avail be made of commercial opportunities
in foreign countries, and most especially in Latin America.

AID TO OUR FOREIGN MERCHANT MARINE.

Another instrumentality indispensable to the unhampered and natural
development of American commerce is merchant marine.

All maritime and commercial nations recognize the importance of this
factor. The greatest commercial nations, our competitors, jealously
foster their merchant marine. Perhaps nowhere is the need for rapid
and direct mail, passenger and freight communication quite so urgent
as between the United States and Latin America.

We can secure in no other quarter of the world such immediate benefits
in friendship and commerce as would flow from the establishment of direct
lines Of communication with the countries of Latin America adequate
to meet the requirements of a rapidly increasing appreciation of the
reciprocal dependence of the countries of the Western Hemisphere upon
each other's products, sympathies and assistance.

I alluded to this most important subject in my last annual message;
it has often been before you and I need not recapitulate the reasons
for its recommendation.

Unless prompt action be taken the completion of the Panama Canal will find
this the only great commercial nation unable to avail in international maritime
business of this great improvement in the means of the world's commercial intercourse.

Quite
aside from the commercial aspect, unless we create a merchant marine,
where can we find the seafaring population necessary as a natural
naval reserve and where could we find, in case of war, the transports
and subsidiary vessels without which a naval fleet is arms without
a body?

For many reasons I cannot too strongly urge upon the Congress the
passage of a measure by mail subsidy or other subvention adequate
to guarantee the establishment and rapid development of an American
merchant marine, and the restoration of the American flag to its ancient
place upon the seas.

Of course such aid ought only to be given under conditions of publicity
of each beneficiary's business and accounts which would show that
the aid received was needed to maintain the trade and was properly
used for that purpose.

FEDERAL PROTECTION TO ALIENS.
 "She's my boat, and - I've had eight  months to think in."

No man saw the Haliotis depart, though many heard her. She left at two in the morning, having
cut her moorings, and it was none of her crew's pleasure that the engines should strike up
a thundering half-seas-over chanty that echoed among the hills.  Mr. Wardrop wiped away a tear
as he listened to the new song.

"She's gibberin' -  she's just gibberin'," he whimpered. "Yon's the  voice of a maniac.

And if engines have any soul, as their masters believe, he was quite right. There were outcries
and clamours, sobs and bursts of chattering laughter, silences where the trained ear yearned
for the clear note, and torturing reduplications where there should have been one deep voice.
Down the screw-shaft ran murmurs and warnings, while a heart-diseased flutter without told
that the propeller needed re-keying.

"How does she make it?" said the skipper.

"She moves, but - but she's breakin' my heart. The sooner we're at Pygang-Watai, the better.
She's mad, and we're waking the town."

"Is she at all near safe?"

"What do I care how safe she is?  She's mad. Hear that, now!  To be sure, nothing's hittin'
anything, and the bearin's are fairly cool, but - can ye not hear?"

"If she goes," said the skipper, "I don't care a curse. And she's my boat, too."

She went, trailing a fathom of weed behind her. From a slow two knots an hour she crawled up
to a triumphant four. Anything beyond that made the struts quiver dangerously, and filled the
engine-room with steam. Morning showed her out of sight of land, and there was a visible ripple
under her bows; but she complained bitterly in her bowels, and, as though the noise had called
it, there shot along across the purple sea a swift, dark proa, hawk-like and curious, which
presently ranged alongside and wished to know if the Haliotis were helpless. Ships, even the
steamers of the white men, had been known to break down in those waters, and the honest Malay
and Javanese traders would sometimes aid them in their own peculiar way. But this ship was
not full of lady passengers and well-dressed officers. Men, white, naked and savage, swarmed
down her sides -- some withred-hot iron bars, and others with large hammers - threw themselves
upon those innocent inquiring strangers, and, before any man could say what had happened, were
in full possession of the proa, while the lawful owners bobbed in the water overside.  Half
an hour later the proa's cargo of sago and trepang, as well as a doubtful-minded compass, was
in the Haliotis. The two huge triangular mat sails, with their seventy-foot yards and booms,
had followed the cargo, and were being fitted to the stripped masts of the steamer.

They rose, they swelled, they filled, and the empty steamer visibly laid over as the wind took
them. They gave her nearly three knots an hour, and what better could men ask?  But if she
had been forlorn before, this new purchase made her horrible to see. Imagine a respectable
charwoman in the tights of a ballet-dancer rolling drunk along the streets, and you will come
to some faint notion of the appearance of that nine-hundred-ton, well-decked, once schooner-rigged
cargo-boat as she staggered under her new help, shouting and raving across the deep.  With
steam and sail that marvellous voyage continued; and the bright-eyed crew looked over the rail,
desolate, unkempt, unshorn, shamelessly clothed  beyond the decencies.

At the end of the third week she sighted the island of Pygang-Watai, whose harbour is the turning-point
of a pearl sea-patrol. Here the gun-boats stay for a week ere they retrace their line. There
is no village at Pygang-Watai; only a stream of water, some palms, and a harbour safe to rest
in till the first violence of the southeast monsoon has blown itself out. They opened up the
low coral beach, with its mound of whitewashed coal ready for supply, the deserted huts for
the sailors, and the flagless flagstaff.

Next day there was no Haliotis - only a little proa rocking in the warm rain at the mouth of
the harbour, whose crew watched with hungry eyes the smoke of a gunboat on the horizon.

Months afterwards there were a few lines in an English newspaper to the effect that some gunboat
of some foreign Power had broken her back at the mouth of some far-away harbour by running
at full speed into a sunken wreck.

None the less William had enjoyed herself hugely in her four years.

"What are you doing here?" said the police-man. "What! You don't mean you couldn't afford -"

"'Tain't that. I've some work here." 'Remember?"

"Hsh!

End of WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR - PART II

THE SON OF HIS FATHER

"It is a queer name," Mrs. Strickland admitted, "and none of our family have ever borne it,
but, you see, he is the first man to us."

So he was called Adam, and to that world about him he was the first of men - a man-child alone.
Heaven sent him no Eve for a companion, but all earth, horse and foot, was at his feet. As
soon as he was old enough to appear in public,  he held a levee; and Strickland's sixty policemen,
with their sixty  clanking sabres, bowed to the dust before him. When his fingers closed a
little on Imam Din's sword-hilt, they rose and roared - till Adam roared, too, and was withdrawn.

"Now, that was no cry of fear," said Imam Din, afterwards, speaking to his companions in the
Police Lines.  "He was angry - and so young! Brothers, he will make a very strong Police officer."

"Does the Memsahib give him the breast?" said a new Phillour recruit, the dye smell not yet
out of his yellow cotton uniform.

"Ho!" said an up-country Naik, scornfully. "It has not been known for more than ten days that
my woman suckles him." He curled his moustaches as lordly as ever an Inspector could afford
to do, for he knew that the husband of the  foster-mother of the son of the District Superintendent
of Police was a man sure of consideration.

"I am glad," said Imam Din, loosening his belt. "Those who drink our blood become of our own
blood, and I have seen, in these thirty years, that the sons of the Sahibs, once being born
here, return when they are men. Yes, they return after they have been to Belait [Europe]."

"And what do they do in Belait?" asked the recruit, respectfully.

"Get instruction - which thou hast not," returned the Naik. "Also they drink of belaitee-panee
[soda-water], enough to give them that devil's restlessness which endures for all their lives.
Whence we of Hind have trouble."

"My father's uncle," said Imam Din, slowly, with importance, "was Ressaldar of the Longcoat
Horse; and the Empress called him to Belait in the year that she had accomplished fifty years
of rule. He said (and there were also other witnesses) that the Sahibs there drink common water,
even as do we; and that the belaitee-panee does not run in all the rivers.

"He said also that there was a Shish Mahal - half a glass palace - half a koss in length and
that the rail-gbarri ran under the roads, and that there are boats bigger than a village. He
is a great talker." The Naik spoke scornfully. He had no well-born uncles.

"He is a man of good birth," said Imam Din, with the least possible emphasis on the first word,
and the Naik was silent.

"Ho! ho!" Imam Din reached out to his pipe, chuckling until his fat sides shook again. "Strickland
Sahib's foster-mother was the wife of an Arain in the Ferozepur district. I was a young man
then, ploughing while the English fought. This child will also be suckled here, and he will
have double wisdom, and when he is a Police officer it will be very bad for the thieves in
this illakha."

"There will be no English in the land then. They are asking permission of clerks and low-caste
men to continue their rule even now," said the Naik.

"All but foolish men - such as those clerks are - would know that this asking is but an excuse
for making trouble, and thus holding the country more strictly. Now, in an investigation, is
it not our custom to permit the villagers to talk loosely and give us abuse for a little time?
Then do we not grow hot, and walk them to the thana two by two - as these clerks will be walked?
Thus do I read the new talk."

"So do not I," said the Naik, who borrowed the native newspapers.

"Because thou art young, and wast born in time of peace. I saw the year that was to end the
English rule. Men said it was ended, indeed, and that all could now take their neighbour's
cattle. This I saw ploughing, and I was minded to fight too, being a young man. My father sent
me to Gurgaon to buy cattle, and I saw the tents of Van Corlin Sahib(1) in the wheat, and I
saw that he was going up and down collecting the revenue, neither abating nor increasing it,
though Delhi was all afire, and the Sahibs lay dead about the fields. I have seen what I have
seen. This Raj will not be talked down; and he who builds on the present madness of the Sahib-log,
which, O Naik, covers great cunning, builds for himself a lock-up. My father's uncle has seen
their country, and he says that he is afraid as never he feared before. So Strickland Sahib's
boy will come back to this country, and his son after him. Naik, have they named him yet?"

"The butler spoke to my household, having heard the talk at table, and he says that they will
call him Adam, and no jaw-splitting English name. Ud-daam.  The padre will name him at their
church in due time."(1) Van Cortland?

"Who can tell the ways of Sahibs? Now, Strickland Sahib knows more of the Faith than ever I
had time to learn-prayers, charms, names, and stories of the Blessed Ones. Yet he is not a
Musalman," said Imam Din, thoughtfully.

"For the reason that he knows as much of the gods of Hindustan, and so rides with a rein in
each hand.  Remember that he sat under the Baba Atall, a fakir among fakirs, for ten days:
whereby a man came to be hanged for the murder of the dancing-girl on the night of the great
earthquake," said the Naik.

"True - it is true - and yet . . . they are one day so wise, the Sahibs, and another so foolish.
But he has named the child well: Adam. Huzrut Adam! Ho! ho! Father Adam we must call him."

"And all who minister to the child," said the Naik, quietly, but with meaning, "will come to
great honour."

Adam throve, being prayed over before the gods of at least three creeds, in a garden almost
as fair as Eden. There were gigantic clumps of bamboo that talked continually, and enormous
plantains on whose soft paper skin he could scratch with his nails; green domes of mango-trees
as huge as the dome of St. Paul's, full of parrots as big as cassowaries, and grey squirrels
the size of foxes. Rossetti scraped together all his funds and sent her on a trip alone through
France. She fell sick there, and we hear of Rossetti working like mad on a canvas, so as to sell the picture
and send her money.

When she returned, a good deal of her old-time beauty seemed to have
vanished: the fine disdain, that noble touch of scorn, was gone--and
Rossetti wrote a sonnet declaring her more beautiful than ever.

Ruskin thought he saw the hectic flush of death upon her cheek.

Sorrow, love, ill-health, poverty, tamed her spirit, and Swinburne
telling of her, years after, speaks of "her matchless loveliness,
courage, endurance, humor and sweetness--too dear and sacred to be
profaned by any attempt at expression."

Rossetti writing to Allingham says: "It seems to me when I look at her
working, or too ill to work, and think of how many without one tithe
of her genius or greatness of spirit have granted them abundant health
and opportunity to labor through the little they can or will do, while
perhaps her soul is never to bloom, nor her bright hair to fade;
but after hardly escaping from degradation and corruption, all she
might have been must sink again unprofitably in that dark house where
she was born.

How truly she may say, 'No man cared for my soul.' I do not mean to make myself an exception, for how
long have I known her, and not thought of this till so late--perhaps
too late."

In Rossetti's love for this beautiful human lily there was something
very selfish, the selfishness of the artist who sacrifices everything
and everybody, even himself, to get the work done.

Rossetti's love for Miss Siddal was sincere in its insincerity. The art impulse
was supreme in him and love was secondary.

The nine years' engagement, with the uncertain, vacillating, forgetful,
absent-minded habits of erratic genius to deal with, wore out the
life of this beautiful creature.

The mother-instinct in her had been denied: Nature had been set at
naught, and art enthroned.

When the physician told Rossetti that the lovely lily was to fade and die, he straightway
abruptly married her, swearing he would nurse her back to life. He then
gave her the "home" they had so long talked of; three little rooms, one
all hung with her own drawings and none other.

He petted her,
invited in the folks she liked best, gave little entertainments,
and both declared that never were they so happy.

She suffered much from neuralgia, and the laudanum taken to relieve
the pain had grown into a necessity.

On the Tenth of February, Eighteen Hundred Sixty-two, she dined with
her husband and Mr. Swinburne at a nearby hotel.

Rossetti then accompanied her to their
home, and leaving her there went alone to give his weekly lecture
at the Working Men's College. When he returned in two hours, he found
her unconscious from an overdose of laudanum. She never regained consciousness,
breathing her last but a few short hours later.

* * * * *

The grief of Rossetti on the death of his wife was pitiable. His friends
feared for his sanity, and had he not been closely watched it is quite
possible that one grave would have held the lovers. He reproached
himself for neglecting her. He cursed art and literature for having
seduced him away from her, and thus allowed her to grope her way alone.
He prophesied what she might have been had he only devoted himself
to her as a teacher, and by encouragement allowed her soul to bloom
and blossom. "I should have worked through her hand and brain," he
cried.  Public schools don't encourage any-thing that isn't quite English."

Mrs. Strickland shuddered, for she had been trying not to think of the separation that follows
motherhood in India, and makes life there, for all that is written to the contrary, not quite
the most desirable thing in the world. Adam trotted out to hear about more miracles, and his
nurse must have worried him beyond bounds, for she came back weeping, saying that Adam Baba
was in danger of being eaten alive by wild horses.

As a matter of fact, he had shaken off Juma by bolting between a couple of picketed horses
and lying down under their bellies. That they were personal friends of his, Juma did not understand,
nor Strickland either. Adam was settled at ease when his father arrived, breathless and white,
and the stallions put back their ears and squealed.

"If you come here," said Adam, "they will hit you kicks. Tell Juma I have eaten my rice and
wish to be alone."

"Come out at once," said Strickland, for the horses were beginning to  paw violently.

"Why should I obey Juma's order? She is afraid of horses."

"It is not Juma's order. It is mine. Obey!"

"Ho!" said Adam, "Juma did not tell me that." And he crawled out on all fours among the shod
feet. Mrs. Strickland was crying bitterly with fear and excitement, and as a sacrifice to the
home gods Adam had to be whipped. He said with perfect justice: "There was no order that I
should not sit with the horses, and they are my horses. Why is there this tamasha?"

Strickland's face showed him that the whipping was coming, and the child turned white. Mother-like,
Mrs. Strickland left the room, but Juma, the foster-mother, stayed to see.

"Am I to be whipped here?" he gasped.

"Of course."

"Before that woman? Father, I am a man -I am not afraid. It is my izzat  - my honour."

Strickland only laughed (to this day I cannot imagine what possessed him), and gave Adam the
little tap-tap with a riding-cane that was whipping sufficient  for his years.

When it was all over, Adam said quietly: "I am little, and you are big. If I stayed among my
horse folk I should not have been whipped. You are afraid to go there."

The merest chance led me to Strickland's house that afternoon. When I was half-way down the
drive Adam passed me, without recognition, at a fast run. I caught one glimpse of his face
under his big hat, and it was the face of his father as I had once seen that in the grey of
morning when it bent above a leper. I caught the child by the shoulder.

"Let me go!" he screamed, and he and I were the best of friends, as a rule.  "Let me go!"

"Where to, Father Adam?" He was quivering like a new-haltered colt.

"To the well. I have been beaten. I have been beaten before women! Let me go!" He tried to
bite my hand.

"That is a small matter," I said. "Men are horn to beatings."

"Thou hast never been beaten," he said savagely.

"Indeed I have. Times past counting."

"Before women?"

"My mother and the ayah saw. By women too, for that matter. What of it?"

"What didst thou do?" He stared beyond my shoulder up the long drive.

"It is long ago, and I have forgotten. I was older than thou art; but even then I forgot, and
now the thing is but a jest to be talked of"

Adam drew one big breath and broke down utterly in my arms. Then he raised his head, and his
eyes were Strickland's eyes when Strickland gave orders.

"Ho! Imam Din."

The fat orderly seemed to spring out of the earth at our feet, crashing through the bushes,
and standing to attention.

"Hast thou ever been beaten?" said Adam."Assuredly. By my father when I was thirty years old.
He beat me with a plough-beam before all the women of the village.""Wherefore?"

"Because I had returned to the village on leave from the Government service, and had said of
the village elders that they had not seen the world. Therefore he beat me, to show that no
seeing of the world changed father and son."

"And thou?"

"I stood up. He was my father."

"Good," said Adam, and turned on his heel without another word.

Imam Din looked after him. "An elephant breeds but once in a lifetime, but he breeds elephants.
Yet I am glad I am no father of tuskers," said he.

"What is it all?" I asked.

"His father beat him with a whip no bigger than a reed. But the child could not have done what
he desired to do without leaping through me. And I am of some few pounds weight. Look!"

Imam Din stepped back through the bushes, and the pressed grass showed that he had been lying
curled round the mouth of the dry well.

"When there was talk of beating I knew that one who sat among horses, such as ours, was not
like to kiss his father's hand. So I lay down in this place." We both stood still looking at
the well-curb.

Adam came back along the garden path to us. "I have spoken to my father," he said simply. "Imam
Din, tell thy Naik that his woman is dismissed my service."

"Huzoor!" said Imam Din, stooping low.

"For no fault of hers."

"Protector of the Poor!"

And to-day."

"Khodawund!"

"It is an order! Go!"

Again the salute, and Imam Din departed, with that same set of the back which he wore when
he had taken an order from Strickland. I thought that it would be well to go too, but Strickland
beckoned me from the verandah. When I came up he was perfectly white, and rocking to and fro
in his chair, repeated "Good God!" half a dozen times.

"Do you know that he was going to chuck himself down the well - because I tapped him just now
~" he said helplessly.

"I ought to," I replied. "He has just dismissed his nurse - on his own authority, I suppose?"

"He told me just now that he wouldn't have her for a nurse any more. I never supposed he meant
it for an instant. I suppose she'll have to go."

It is written elsewhere that Strickland was feared through the length and breadth of the Punjab
by murderers, horse-thieves, and cattle-lifters.

Adam returned, halting outside the verandah, very white about the lips.

"I have sent away Juma because she saw that - that which happened. Until she is gone I do not
come in the house," he said.

But to send away thy foster-mother ~" said Strickland, with reproach.

"I do not send her away.  It is thy blame, and the small forefinger was pointed to Strickland.
"I will not obey her; I will not eat from her hand, and I will not sleep with her. Send her away."

Strickland stepped out and lifted the child into the verandah.

"This folly has lasted long enough," he said. "Come, now, and be wise."

"I am little, and you are big," said Adam, between set teeth. "You can beat me before this
man or cut me to pieces. But I will not have Juma for my ayah any more. I will not eat till
she goes. I swear it by - my father's head."

Strickland sent him indoors to his mother, and we could hear sounds of weeping, and Adam's
voice saying nothing more than, "Send Juma away." Presently Juma came in and wept too, and
Adam repeated, "It is no fault of thine, but go!"

And the end of it was that Juma went, with all her belongings, and Adam fought his own way
alone into his little clothes until a new ayah came. His address of welcome to her was rather
amazing. In a few words it ran: "If I do wrong send me to my father. If you strike me I will
try to kill you. I do not wish my ayah to play with me. Go and eat rice."

>From that day Adam forswore the society of ayahs and small native girls as much as a small
boy can, confining himself to Imam Din and his friends of the police. The Naik, Juma's husband,
had been presuming not a little on his position, and when Adam's favour was withdrawn from
his wife he judged it best to apply for a transfer to another post. There were too many companions
anxious to report his shortcomings to Strickland.

Towards his father Adam kept a guarded neutrality. There was not a touch of sulkiness in it,
for the child's temper was as clear as a bell. But the difference and the politeness worried
Strickland.

If the other men had loved Adam before the affair of the well, they  worshipped him now.

He knows what honour means," said Imam Din; "he has justified himself upon a point thereof.
He has carried an order through his father's household as a child of the blood might do.  Therefore
he is not altogether a child any longer.  Wah! He is a tiger's cub."  The next time that Adam
made his little unofficial inspection of the line, Imam Din, and by consequence all the others,
stood upon their feet, with their hands to their sides, instead of calling out from where they
lay, "Salaam, Babajee," and other disrespectful things.

But Strickland took long counsel with his wife, and she with the cheque-book and their lean
bank-account, and they decided that Adam must go "home" to his aunts. But England is not home
to a child that has been born in India, and it never becomes home-like unless he spends all
his youth there. The bank-book showed that if they economised through the summer by going to
a cheap hill-station instead of to Simla, where Mrs. Strickland's parents lived, and where
Strickland might be noticed by the powers, they could send Adam home in the next spring. It
would be hard pinching, but it could be done.  In India all the money that people in other
lands save against a rainy day runs off in loss by exchange, which to-day cuts a man's income
down almost exactly to one-half There is nothing to show for money when all is put by, and
that is what makes married life there so hard. Strickland used to say, sometimes, that he envied
the convicts in the jail. They had no position to keep up, and the ball and chain that the
worst of them wore was only a few pounds weight of iron.

Dalhousie was chosen as being the cheapest of the hill-stations; Dalhousie and a little five-roomed
cottage full of mildew, tucked away among the rhododendrons.

Adam had been to Simla three or four times, and knew by name the most of the Tonga drivers
from Kalka to Tara Deva; but this new plan disquieted him. He came to me for information, his
hands deep in his knickerbocker pockets, walking, step for step, as his father walked.

"There will be none of my bhai-bund [Brotherhood] up there," said he, disconsolately, "and
they say that I must lie still in a doolie for a day and a night, being carried like a sheep.
I wish to take some of my mounted men to Dalhousie."

I told him that there was a small boy called Victor, at Dalhousie, who had a calf for a pet,
and was allowed to play with it on the public roads. After that Adam could not sufficiently
hurry the packing.

"First," said he, "I shall ask that man Victor to let me play with the cow's child. This was good crowing,
but the old cock had taught him.

From Eton young Smith was removed to Oxford, where we are told he
often rode out with the hounds and began his practice of keeping close
up to them at the risk of his own and his horse's neck.

Clearly the subject of these memoirs was not intended to shine in
the schools and wisely did not make the attempt. Leaving college, Mr.
Smith for a few years devoted himself to the improvement of his horses
and hounds, and, as the author says, to "creating a new country near
Salisbury Plain." "They say that when I am an officer I shall
know as much as my father." "God forbid, little one!"

"They say, too, that you are as clever as Shaitan to know things."

"They say that, do they?" said Strickland, looking pleased. His pay was small, but he had his
reputation, and that was dear to him.

"They say also - not to me, but to one another when they eat rice behind the wall - that in
your own heart you esteem yourself as wise as Suleiman, who was cheated by Shaitan."

This time Strickland did not look so pleased. Adam, in all innocence, launched into a long
story about Suleiman-bin-Daoud, who once, out of vanity, pitted his wits against Shaitan, and
because God was not on his side Shaitan sent "a little devil of low caste," as Adam put it,
who cheated him utterly, and put him to shame before "all the other Rajas."

"By Jove!" said Strickland, when the tale was done, and went away, while Adam took me to task
for laughing at Imam Din's story. I did not wonder that he was called Huzrut Adam, for he looked
old as all time in his grave childhood, sitting cross-legged, his battered little helmet far
at the back of his head, his forefinger wagging up and down, native fashion, and the wisdom
of serpents on his unconscious lips.

That May he went up to Dalhousie with his mother, and in those days the journey ended in fifty
or sixty miles of uphill travel in a doolie or palanquin, along a road winding through the
Himalayas. Adam sat in the doolie with his mother,and Strickland rode and tied with me, a spare
doolie following. The march began after we got out of the train at Pathankot, in a hot night
among the  rice - and poppy-fields.

It was all new to Adam, and he had opinions to advance - notably about a fish that jumped on
a wayside pond.

"Now I know," he shouted, "how Khuda puts them there. First He makes them and then He drops
them down. That was a new one." Then, lifting his head to the stars, he cried, "O God, do it
again, but slowly, that I, Adam, may see."

But nothing happened, and the doolie-bearers lit the noisome, dripping rag torches, and Adam's
eyes shone big in the dancing light, and we smelt the dry dust of the plains that we were leaving
after eleven months' hard work.

At stated times the men ceased their drowsy, grunting tune, and sat down for a smoke. Between
the guttering of their water-pipes we could hear the cries of the beasts of the night, and
the wind stirring in the folds of the mountain ahead. At the changing stations the voice of
Adam, the first of men, would be lifted to rouse the sleepers in the huts till the fresh relays
of bearers shambled from their cots, and the relief-pony with them.

Then we would re-form and go on, and by the time the moon rose Adam was asleep, and there was
no sound in the night except the grunting of the men, the husky murmur of some river a thousand
feet down in the valley, and the squeaking of Strickland's saddle. So we went up from the date-palm
to deodar, till the dawn wind came round a corner all fresh from the snows, and we snuffed
it. I heard Strickland say: "Wife, my overcoat, please," and Adam, fretfully: "Where is Dalhousie,
and the cow's child?" and then I slept till Strickland turned me out of the warm doolie at
seven o'clock, and I stepped into the splendour of a cool hill day, the plains sweltering twenty
miles back and three thousand feet below.

Adam waked too, and needs must ride in front of me to ask a million questions, and shout at
the monkeys, and clap his hands when the painted pheasants bolted across our road, and hail
every wood-cutter and drover and pilgrim within sight, till we halted for breakfast at a staging-house.
After breakfast, being a child, he went out to play with a train of bullock-drivers haltered
by the road-side, and we had to chase him out of a native liquor-shop where he was bargaining
with a naked seven-year-old for a mynah in a bamboo cage.

Said he, wriggling on my pommel, as we went on again: "There were four men behosh [insensible]
at the back of that house. Wherefore do men grow  behosh from drinking?"

"It is the nature of the water," l said, and calling back: "Strick, what's that grog-shop doing
so close to the road? It's a temptation to any one's servants."

"Dun'no," said a sleepy voice in the doolie. "This is Kennedy's district. 'Twasn't here in
my time."

"Truly the water smells bad," Adam went on. "I smelt it, but I did not get the mynah even for
six annas. The woman of the house gave me a love-gift, that I found, playing near the verandah."

"And what was the gift, Father Adam?"

"A nose-ring for my ayah. Ohe! ohe!  Look at that camel with a bag on his nose." A string of
loaded camels came cruising round the corner, as a fleet rounds a cape.

"Ho, Malik! why does not a camel salaam like an elephant? His neck is long enough," Adam cried.

"The Angel Jibrail made him a fool from the beginning," said the driver, as he swayed on the
top of the led beast, and laughter ran all along the line of red-bearded men.

"That   is true," said Adam, and they laughed again.

At last, in the late afternoon, we came to Dalhousie, loveliest of the hill-stations, and separated.Adam
hardly could be restrained from setting out at once to find Victor and the "cow's child." I
found them both, something to my trouble, next morning. The two young sinners had a calf on
a taut line just at a sharp turn in the Mall, and were pretending that he was a Raja's elephant
who had gone mad. But it was my horse that nearly went mad, and they shouted with delight.
Then we began to talk, and Adam, by way of crushing Victor's repeated reminders that he and
not "that other" was the owner of the calf, said:  "It is true I have no cow's child, but a
great dacoity has been done on my father."

"We came up together yesterday. There could have been nothing," I said.

"It was my mother's horse.  She has been dacoited with beating and blows, and now it is so
thin."  He held his hands an inch apart.  "My father is at the tar-house sending tars. Imam
Din will cut off all their heads.  I desire your saddle-cloth for a howdah to my elephant.
Give it me."

This was exciting, but not lucid. I went to the telegraph-office and found Strickland in a
bad temper among many telegraph-forms.  A dishevelled, one-eyed groom stood in a corner, whimpering
at intervals.  He was a man whom Adam invariably addressed as "Be-shakl be-ukl, be-ank" - ugly,
stupid, eyeless.  It seemed, according to Strickland, that he had sent his wife's horse up
to Dalhousie by road, a fortnight's march.  This is the custom in Upper India. Among the foot-hills
near Dhunnera or Dhar, horse and man had been violently set upon in the night by four men,
who had beaten the groom (his leg was bandaged from knee to ankle in proof), had incidentally
beaten the horse, and had robbed the groom of the bucket, and all his money  eleven rupees,
nine annas, three pie.  Last, they had left him for dead by the wayside, where wood-cutters
had found and nursed him.  Then the one-eyed howled with anguish, thinking over his bruises.
"They asked me if I was Strickland Sahib's servant, and I, thinking the protection of the name
would be sufficient, spoke the truth.  Then they  beat me grievously."

"Hm!" said Strickland.  "I thought they wouldn't dacoit as a business on the Dalhousie road.
This is meant for me personally - sheer badmashi [impudence].  All right."

In justice to a very hard-working class, it must be said that the thieves of Upper India have
the keenest sense of humour. The last compliment that they can pay a Police officer is to rob
him, and if, as once they did, they can loot a Deputy Inspector-General of Police, on the eve
of his retirement, of everything except the clothes on his back, their joy is complete.  They
cause letters of derision and telegrams of condolence to be sent to the victim; for of all
men, thieves are most compelled to keep up with modern progress.

Strickland was a man of few words where his business was concerned. I had never seen a Police
officer robbed before, and I expected some excitement; but Strickland held his tongue. He took
the groom's deposition and retired into himself for a time, evolving thieves. Then he sent
Kennedy, of the Pathankot charge, an official letter and an unofficial note.  Kennedy's reply
was purely unofficial, and it ran thus: "This seems a compliment solely intended for you. 
My wonder is, you didn't get it before.

The men are probably back in your district by this time.  The Dhunnera and foot-hill people
are highly respectable cultivators, and seeing my Assistant is an unlicked pup, and I can't
trust my Inspector out of my sight, I am not going to turn their harvest upside down with a
police investigation. I am run off my feet with vaccination police work.  You'd better look
at home. The Shubkudder Gang were through here a fortnight back.  They laid up at the Amritsar
Serai, and then worked down.  No cases against them in my charge, but remember you lagged their
malik for receiving in Prub Dyal's burglary.  They owe you one."

"Exactly what I thought," said Strickland. "I had a notion it was the  Shubkudder Gang from
the first.  We must make it pleasant for them at Peshawur, and in my district too.  They are
just the kind that would lie up under Imam Din's shadow."

>From this point onward the wires began to he worked heavily. Strickland had a very fair knowledge
of the Shubkudder Gang, gathered at first hand.

They were the same syndicate that had once stolen a Deputy Commissioner's cow, put horse-shoes
on her, and taken her forty miles into the jungle before they lost interest in the joke. They
added insult to insult by writing that the Deputy Commissioner's cows and horses were so much
alike that it took them two days to find out the difference, and they would not lift the like
of such  cattle any more.

The District Superintendent at Peshawur replied to Strickland that he was expecting the gang,
and Strickland's Assistant in his own district, being young and full of zeal, sent up the most
amazing clues.

"Now that's just what I want that young fool not to do," said Strickland. "He hasn't passed
the lower standard yet, and he's an English boy born and bred, and his father before him. He
has about as much tact as a bull, and he won't work quietly under my Inspector.  I wish the
Government would keep our service for country-born men. Those first five or six years give
a man a pull that lasts him his life. Adam, if you were only old enough to be my 'Stunt"!"
He looked down at the little fellow on the verandah. Adam was deeply interested in the dacoity,
and, unlike a child, did not lose interest after the first week. On the contrary, he would
ask his father every evening what had been done, and Strickland had drawn him a picture on
the white wall of the verandah showing the different towns in which policemen were on the lookout
for the thieves.  They were Amritsar, Jullundur, Phillour, Gurgaon, in case the gang were moving
south; Rawal Pindi and Peshawur, with Multan. Adam looked up at the picture  as he answered:

"There has been great dikh [trouble] in this case."

"Very great trouble. I wish thou wert a young man and my assistant to help me."

"Dost thou need help, my father?" Adam asked curiously, with his head on one side.

"Very much."

"Leave it all alone. It is bad. Let loose everything."

"That must not be. Is it a crime to be a woman? "In the beginning God created man, male and
female, created he them." A bill of attainder inflicts punishment,
creates liabilities or disabilities, on account of parentage, birth,
or descent.

Do United States officials presume to create a disability, or inflict
a punishment, on account of birth as a woman, and this in direct defiance
of the Constitution?

When the Constitution of the United States presents no barrier, no
lesser power has such authority.

"The Constitution of the United States, and the laws made in pursuance thereof, shall be the supreme law
of the land."

Says article sixth: "Any law of Congress not made in pursuance of,
or in unison with the Constitution, is an illegal and void law."

Coke declared an Act of Parliament against Magna Charta was null and void.

But United States officials declare it a crime for a United States
citizen to vote.

If it is a crime for a native-born citizen, it ought to be a still
greater crime for a foreign-born citizen.

But the fact that citizenship carries with it the right of voting, is shown in the act of naturalization. A foreigner,
after a certain length of residence in this country, proceeds to
take out papers of citizenship.

To become a citizen, is all that he needs to make of him a voter. At
one and the same time he picks up a ballot, and his naturalization
papers.

Nothing more than his becoming a citizen is needed for him to vote--nothing
less will answer.

Susan B. Anthony is a native-born citizen.

She had to take out no papers to make her a citizen--she was born in
the United States--she is educated, intelligent, and FREE BORN. Native-born
citizenship is generally conceded to be of more value than that which
is bought. Do you not remember that when Paul was brought up, preparatory
to being scourged, he demanded by what right they scourged him, a
Roman citizen.

The chief captain said, "I bought this freedom with a great price."

Paul replied, "I am free born"; then great fear fell upon the chief captain, and he ordered the
bonds removed from Paul.

Native-born Roman citizenship was worth as much as that two thousand
years ago.

To-day, the foreign-born American citizen, who has bought his freedom
with a great price, who has left his home and country, and crossed
the sea to a strange land, in order that he may find freedom, is
held to be superior to "free born"

American women citizens.

But
Miss Anthony is not battling for herself alone, nor for the woman
alone; she stands to-day, the embodiment of Republican principles. The
question of to-day, is not has woman a right to vote, but has any
American citizen, white or black, native-born, or naturalized, a right
to vote.

The prosecution of Miss Anthony by the United States, for the alleged
crime of having cast a vote at the last election, is a positive declaration
of the government of the United States that it is a crime to vote.

Let
that decision be affirmed, and we have no republic; the ballot, the
governing power in the hands of every person, is the only true republic.

Each
person to help make the laws which govern him or her, is the only
true democracy.

Individual responsibility, personal representation,
exact political equality, are the only stable foundations of a republic,
and when the United States makes voting a crime on the part of any
free-born, law-abiding citizen, it strikes a blow at its own stability;
it is undermining the very foundations of the republic--it is attempting
to overthrow its own Constitution.

Miss Anthony is to-day the representative of liberty; she is to-day battling
for the rights of every man, woman and child in the country; she is
not only upholding the right of every native-born citizen, but of every
naturalized citizen; to-day is at stake in her person, the new-born
hopes of foreign lands, the quickened instincts of liberty, so well
nigh universal.

"But why," I interrupted, "did Beshakl tell lies?"

"Oh! he is a low-caste man, and desired consideration. Now he is a witness in a great law-case,
and men will go to the jailkhana on his account. It was to give trouble and obtain notice."

"Was it all lies?" said Strickland,

"Ask him," said Adam, cheerily, through the mango-juice.

Strickland passed through the door; there was a howl of despair in the servants' quarters up
the hill, and he returned with the one-eyed groom.

"Now," said Strickland, "it is known. Declare!" "Beshakl," said Adam, while the man gasped.
"Imam Din has caught four men, and there are some more at Peshawur.  Bus! Bus! Bus! Tell about
the mare and how she rolled."

"Thou didst get drunk by the wayside, and didst make a false case

to cover it.  Speak!"

Like many other men, Strickland, in possession of a few facts, was irresistible. The groom groaned.

"I - I did not get drunk - till - till - Protector of the Poor,  the mare rolled."

"All horses roll at Dhunnera.  The road is too narrow before that, and they smell where the
other horses have rolled.  This the bullock-drivers told me when they came there," said Adam.

"She rolled. The saddle was cut, and the curb-chain was lost."

"See!" said Adam, tugging a curb-chain from his pocket.  "That woman in  the shop gave it to
me for a love-gift.  Beshakl said it was not his when I showed it.  But I knew."

"Then they in the grog-shop, knowing that I was the servant of the Presence, said that unless
I drank and spent money they would tell."

"A lie.  A lie," said Strickland.  "Son of an owl, speak truth now at least."

"Then I was afraid because I had lost the curb-chain, so I cut the saddle  across and about."

"She did not roll, then?" said Strickland, bewildered and very angry.

"It was the curb-chain that was lost.  That was the beginning of all.  I cut the saddle to
look as though she had rolled, and went to drink in the shop.  I drank, and there was a fray.
The rest I have forgotten, till I was recovered."

"And the mare the while?  What of the mare?"

The man looked at Strickland, and collapsed. "I will speak truth.

She bore fagots for a wood-cutter for a week."

"Oh, poor Diamond!" said Mrs. Strickland.

"And Beshaki was paid four annas for her hire three days ago by the  wood-cutter's brother,
who is the left-hand man of the jhampanis here," said Adam, in a loud and joyful voice. "We
all knew. We all knew. I and all the servants."

Strickland was silent. His wife stared helplessly at the child - the soul called out of the
Nowhere, that went its own way alone.

"Did no man help thee with the lies?" I asked of the groom.

"None, Protector of the Poor - not one." 

At last, when she drew near to them, she said:

"God greet ye, children!

What are you doing here so early?

To whom do you belong?"

"To Josenhans--there!" answered Amrei, pointing to the house.

"Oh, you poor children!" cried the woman, clasping her hands. Son of devils, what canst thou do to make amends?"

There was just a little break in Strickland's voice, and the man caught it. Bending low, he
answered in the abject, fawning whine that confounds right and wrong more surely even than
most modern creeds, "Protector of the Poor, is the police service shut to an honest man?"

"Out!" cried Strickland, and swiftly as the groom departed he must have heard our shout of
laughter behind him.

"If you dismiss that man, Strick, I shall engage him. He's a genius," I said. "For graphic touch and keen appreciation of humour, for easy conversational
narration, give me," quoth the Baron, "the papers now being published
in Household Words (most appropriate place for them), written by MONTAGU
WILLIAMS, Q.C. and Magistrate." Four men  held in your district
-four or forty at Peshawur - and what was that you said about Multan?"

"Oh, nothing.  Only some camel men there have been -"

"On account of a curb-chain. Oh, my aunt!"

"And whose memsahib was thy aunt?" said Adam, with the mango stone in his fist. We began to
laugh again.

"But here," said Strickland, pulling his face together, "is a very bad child who has caused
his father to lose honour before all the policemen of the Punjab."

"Oh, they know," said Adam.  "It was only for the sake of show that they caught the people.
Assuredly they all knew it was bunao [make-up]."

"And since when hast thou known?" said the first policeman in India to his son.

"Four days after we came here - after the wood-cutter had asked Beshakl of the health of his
head. Beshaki all but slew a wood-cutter at that bad-water place."

"If thou hadst spoken then, time and money and trouble to me and to others had all been spared. So that, although the time may still be long, according to our reckoning
of years, it is only a brief moment in eternity when this fair Earth,
and also the beauteous splendor of the silent stars, will be locked
forever in darkness, and the final sleep of doom." Father, my honour was lost when that happened that - that happened in
Juma's presence. Now it is made whole again."

And, with the most enchanting smile in the world, Adam climbed on

to his father's lap.

End of "THE SON OF HIS FATHER"

End of "THE DAY'S WORK" - PART I

