The slaves had plenty to eat, and had their own gardens. I helped work de gardens. My old daddy
worked in de garden and made chairs for de slaves, besides working in de fields.

My massa never whip de slaves very much, but he do sometime. Once I saw my poor old daddy in
chains. They chained his feet together, and his hands too, and carry him off to whip him, 'cause
he wouldn't tell who stole a trunk that was missing. He couldn't tell though, 'cause he didn't
know, but they thought he did.

No ma'am missy, us slaves never had no church to go to. We was allowed to go to de white folks'
church though. There was a low partition in de church wid a little gate in it; we set on one
side of it, and de white folks on de other. We listen to de preaching and sung de songs right
'long wid de white folks. Us never had no baptizings though. I learned a heap of things in
Sunday School.

Talking 'bout patrollers, I was awful scared of them. We had to have a pass from our massa
to go from one plantation to another, and if we went without a pad the patrollers would ketch
us and whip us. I never did get ketched though. De only time de massa ever let us ride de horses
was when he want us to carry a message from one plantation to another.

Yes ma'am, 'bout these weddings you asked me 'bout; well, we had a big time when any of de
slaves got married. De massa and de missus let them get married in de big house, and then we
had a big dance at one of de slave house. De white folks furnish all kinds of good things to
eat, and de colored peoples furnish de music for de dance. My mammy's brother been one of de
best fiddlers there was; he teach de other niggers how to play.

The best times we had was 'long in summer time, 'tending them Camp Meetings. We had good men
to preach de service, and then all of us women got together and spread a big picnic dinner,
that we'd brought from home in baskets, and we sure had a good time. Sometime some of them
eat so much they get sick. We ain't had so much sickness 'long them times though, not like
we do now. Us used to wear garlic and asafetida 'round our neck to keep off diseases; never
had many neither. We was vaccinated to keep from ketching smallpox.

Well little missy, I done told you just 'bout all I 'members 'cept 'bout de Yankees. When I
used to hear de older niggers talking 'bout de Yankees coming, I was scared, 'cause I thought
it was some kind of animal they was talking 'bout. My old aunty was glad to hear 'bout de Yankees
coming. She just set and talk 'bout what a good time we was going to have after de Yankees
come. She'd say; 'Child we going to have such a good time a settin' at de white folks table,
a eating off de white folks table, and a rocking in de big rocking chair.'

Something awful happen to one of de slaves though, when de Yankees did come. One of de young
gals tell de Yankees where de missus had her silver, money and jewelry hid, and they got it
all. What you think happened to de poor gal? She'd done wrong I know, but I hated to see her
suffer so awful for it. After de Yankees had gone, de missus and massa had de poor gal hung
'til she die. It was something awful to see. De Yankees took everything we had 'cept a little
food, hardly 'nough to keep us alive.

When de slaves were freed de most of them didn't had nowhere to go, so we just stayed on wid
de massa and missus and they was good to us as long as we stayed wid them. I wishes sometime
I was a slave again, 'cause I likes being a slave, didn't have nothing to worry 'bout then."

  Home address
  3105 Asylum Road.

"Well, bless ye little heart, honey, ye say ye is wan' me to tell ye 'bout how de people lived
way back dere in slavery time. Honey, I dunno wha' to tell ye cause I ain' never been treated
no ways but good in me life by my Missus. I tell dese chillun here dat dey ain' never see no
sech time uz dere been den. My Missus been marry Massa John Bethea en dey is raise dey flock
up dere to de crossroads next Latta. Dat whey I been raise. Honey, my Missus see to it she
self dat we look a'ter in de right way. Ain' never been made to do no work much den. Jes played
dere in de back yard wid me dolls aw de time I wanna. Honey, I dunno nuthin to tell ye cause
I is lib lak uh lamb in dem days."

"I wus born on de 25th uv December, right on de big Chrissmus day, dere on Massa John plantation
en I was 14 year old when freedom declare. I is 85 year old now en, honey, me health jes uz
good now uz ever it wuz. My Missus take sech good care uv us aw de time en see a'ter us she
self when we sick en I is take sech good care uv me self a'ter I leab dere dat I 'spect to
be here long time from now. Ain' know no ailment tall. Coase de rheumatism is worry me right
smart on uh night. Honey, dis rheumatism ain' been cause from no bad teeth. I is hab eve'y
tooth in me head wha' I hab when I wuz 7 year old en dey jes uz good uz dey was den. It jes
dis way, jes uz long uz I is workin', I feels mighty smart, mighty smart, child!"

"I 'clare to goodness white folks come down here jes to hear me talk. Honey, I is wish I could
stay wid yunnah aw de day. I could tell yunnah aw 'bout dem days cause I ain' know nuthin but
big living den. I tell me grandchillun dat dem times 'ud be uh show for dem now. My Massa had
uh big plantation, honey, uh big plantation! Right in de center wuz me Missus house en den
dere wuz two long row uv we house to de right dere on de place close to de big house. I 'members
when de plantation hand wha' work in de field been come to de house in de middle uv de day
to ge' dey dinner, I been lub to stand 'round de big pot en watch em when dey ge' dey sumptin
to eat. Yas'um, dey is cook aw de food for de field hand in de same big ole black pot out in
de yard. Yas'um, dey is put aw de victual in one pot. Dey'ud go to de smokehouse en cut off
uh whole half uh side uv bacon en drap it right in dat pot. Dat been flavor de pot jes right
cause in dem days, us ration been season wid meat. Honey, dere 'ud be 'bout thirty uv dem hand
wha' had to eat out dat pot. Dere been uh shelter built over de pot to keep de rain out en
den dere was uh big scaffold aw 'round de pot whey de put de pans when dey dish de victual
up. De field hands 'ud come dere en ge' dey pan uv ration offen dis scaffold."

"Now de chillun on de plantation ain' been 'low to eat outer dat pot wid de field hand. My
auntie cook us victuals right dere in de kitchen on de Missus fireplace an we eat right dere
outer us own separate pan. My Missus see she self dat we been fed right en she see dat de food
been cook done, cook done, honey, en been seasoned right aw de time. My Missus ain' never stand
fa me to go widout me meat fa break'ast. Folks ain' eat den lak dey does nowadays. Dey been
eat more meat den en it ain' hu't dem lak it hu'ts em now. Honey, peoples ain' lib peaceful
lak dey been lib den. Den peoples ain' cook dey food done lak de food been cook den. My auntie
cook aw de bread right dere in de kitchen on de fireplace. I is hab some uv dem spider right
here in de yard now. (She showed us two iron spiders about 8 inches deep with three legs. One
was being used in the yard as a drinking place for the chickens and the other was carelessly
thrown just under the edge of her house.) When I come 'way from my Missus plantation, I been
take care uv wha' I bring 'way wid me. Dere uh ole loom dere in de house right now. I 'members
how I use 'er lub to lie down on de Missus floor under de loom en watch my auntie when she
wuz spinning dere."

"Dey'ud hab gray sheep en white sheep den en dey'ud make sech nice cloth. Yas'um, dey'ud dye
de cloth right dere on de plantation. I 'member aw 'bout dat. De Missus hab uh big patch uv
indigo dat dey growed right dere en dey'ud gather it en boil it in de pot en den dey'ud take
de cloth dat my auntie is help weave an put it in dat pot en dye it jes uz pretty. My Missus
see to it she self dat de plantation peoples clothes been make right en dat we is hab nice
clean place to sleep. De Missus never 'low none uv us to lay down in rags. She see 'bout aw
dis she self. I know my Missus gone to Hebbun, honey, en I hope she restin' dere."

  =Source:= Mom Hester Hunter, age 85, colored. Remember de first time dem Yankees come dere, I was settin
down in de chimney corner en my mammy was givin me my breakfast.
Remember I been settin dere wid my milk en my bowl of hominy en I hear
my old grandmammy come a runnin in from out de yard en say all de sky
was blue as indigo wid de Yankees comin right dere over de hill den. Say
she see more Yankees den could ever cover up all de premises bout dere.
Den I hear my Missus scream en come a runnin wid a lapful of silver en
tell my grandmammy to hurry en sew dat up in de feather bed cause dem
Yankees was mighty apt to destroy all dey valuables. Old Missus tell all
de colored people to get away, get away en take care of demselves en
tell we chillun to get back to de chimney corner cause she couldn'
protect us noways no longer. Yes, honey, I was a little child settin
dere in dat chimney corner listenin to all dat scamperin bout en I
remember dat day just as good as it had been dis day right here."

"Oh, my God, dem Yankees never bring nothin but trouble en destructiveness when dey come here,
child. I remember I hear tell dat my old stepfather been gone to de mill to grind some corn
en when he was comin down de road, two big Yankees jump out de bushes side de road en tell
him stop dere. He say dey tell him if he want to save his neck, he better get off dat ox right
den en get away from dere. He say he been so scared he make for de woods fast as he could get
dere en tell dat he lay down wid knots under his head many a night fore he would venture to
come out from dat woods. Never hear tell of his ox en corn no more neither. Oh, honey, my old
Missus was a dear old soul en didn' none of her colored people have no mind to want to leave
dere no time."

"We chillun never didn' know nothin bout no hard times in dat day en time. Seems like de Lord
had just open up en fix de way for us to have everything we want. Oh, honey, we chillun never
been harness up in no little bit of place to play like dese chillun bout here dese days. We
had all de big fields en de pretty woods to wander round en bout en make us playhouse in. Seems
like de Lord had made de little streams just right for we chillun to play in en all kind of
de prettiest flowers to come up right down side de paths us little feet had made dere, but
dat wasn' nothin. Dere was flowers scatter bout everywhe' you look in de woods en all kind
of birds en squirrels en rabbits en honey, dey was live play things. Dat how-come we been so
satisfy. I here to tell you my old Missus was a dear old soul en we chillun sho had a fine
time comin up. She didn' never have her niggers cut up en slashed up no time. She was good
to us en we stuck to her."

