The worthy Abbe, half weeping, half smiling hopefully, related that upon the arrest of his
pupil he had hastened to Paris; that such secrecy enveloped all the Cardinal's actions that
none there knew the place in which the master of the horse was detained.  Many said that he
was banished; and when the reconciliation between Monsieur and the Duc de Bouillon and the
King was known, men no longer doubted that the life of the other was assured, and ceased to
speak of this affair, which, not having been executed, compromised few persons.  They had even
in some measure rejoiced in Paris to see the town of Sedan and its territory added to the kingdom
in exchange for the letters of abolition granted to the Duke, acknowledged innocent in common
with Monsieur; so that the result of all the arrangements had been to excite admiration of
the Cardinal's ability, and of his clemency toward the conspirators, who, it was said, had
contemplated his death. This was written by E.F. in 1627 and printed exactly as the original. The following
details the history of King Edward II, detailing the birth, supremacy and death of the King. Edward
II was the King of England and Lord of Ireland. During his lifetime
was the rise and fall of King Edward II great favorites, Gaveston
and Spencers.

At this part of the narrative, Cinq-Mars could not avoid forgetting his resignation, and clasping
his friend's hand, "Arrested!"  he exclaimed. "Must we renounce even the honor of having voluntarily
surrendered ourselves?  Must we sacrifice all, even the opinion of posterity?"

"There is vanity again," replied De Thou, placing his fingers on his lips.  "But hush!  let
us hear the Abbe to the end."

The tutor, not doubting that the calmness which these two young men exhibited arose from the
joy they felt in finding their escape assured, and seeing that the sun had hardly yet dispersed
the morning mists, yielded himself without restraint to the involuntary pleasure which old
men always feel in recounting new events, even though they afflict the hearers.  He related
all his fruitless endeavors to discover his pupil's retreat, unknown to the court and the town,
where none, indeed, dared to pronounce the name of Cinq-Mars in the most secret asylums.  He
had only heard of the imprisonment at Pierre-Encise from the Queen herself, who had deigned
to send for him, and charge him to inform the Marechale d'Effiat and all the conspirators that
they might make a desperate effort to deliver their young chief.  Anne of Austria had even
ventured to send many of the gentlemen of Auvergne and Touraine to Lyons to assist in their
last attempt.

"The good Queen!"  said he; "she wept greatly when I saw her, and said that she would give
all she possessed to save you.  She reproached herself deeply for some letter, I know not what. This
question is linked closely to the often-debated issue of the Pointed Style's beginnings. Still,
in my opinion, the use of "Gothic" might well have origins unconnected to the emergence of the
pointed arch.


"Said she nothing else?"  interrupted De Thou, supporting Cinq-Mars, who grew visibly paler.

"Nothing more," said the old man.

"And no one else spoke of me?"  inquired the master of the horse.

"No one," said the Abbe.

"If she had but written to me!"  murmured Henri.

"Remember, my father, that you were sent here as a confessor," said De Thou.

Here old Grandchamp, who had been kneeling before Cinq-Mars, and dragging him by his clothes
to the other side of the terrace, exclaimed in a broken voice:

"Monseigneur--my master--my good master--do you see them?  Look there-- 'tis they!  'tis they--all
of them!"

"Who, my old friend?"  asked his master.

"Who?  Great Heaven!  look at that window!  Do you not recognize them? Your mother, your sisters,
and your brother."

