THE CITY THAT WAS

A Requiem of Old San Francisco

By Will Irwin

This is a recast of a newspaper article of the same title published in The Sun April 21, 1906,
three days after the Visitation came upon San Francisco. It is here published by special permission
of The Sun. For the title, I am indebted to Franklin Matthews. W.I.

     "I'd rather be a busted lamp post on Battery Street, San
     Francisco, than the Waldorf-Astoria."--Willie Britt. It is as though a pretty, frivolous
woman had passed through a great tragedy. She survives, but she is
sobered and different. If it rises out of the ashes it must be a modern
city, much like other cities and without its old atmosphere.

San Francisco lay on a series of hills and the lowlands between. These hills are really the
end of the Coast Range of mountains, which stretch southward between the interior valleys and
the Pacific Ocean. Behind it is the ocean; but the greater part of the town fronts on two sides
on San Francisco Bay, a body of water always tinged with gold from the great washings of the
mountain, usually overhung with a haze, and of magnificent color changes. Across the bay to
the north lies Mount Tamalpais, about 3,000 feet high, and so close that ferries from the waterfront
take one in less than half an hour to the little towns of Sausalito and Belvidere, at its foot.

Tamalpais is a wooded mountain, with ample slopes, and from it on the north stretch away ridges
of forest land, the outposts of the great Northern woods of Sequoia sempervirens. This mountain
and the mountainous country to the south bring the real forest closer to San Francisco than
to any other American city. Within the last few years men have killed deer on the slopes of
Tamalpais and looked down to see the cable cars crawling up the hills of San Francisco to the
south. In the suburbs coyotes still stole in and robbed hen roosts by night. The people lived
much out of doors. There is no time of the year, except a short part of the rainy season, when
the weather keeps one from the fields. The slopes of Tamalpais are crowded with little villas
dotted through the woods, and these minor estates run far up into the redwood country. The
deep coves of Belvidere, sheltered by the wind from Tamalpais, held a colony of "arks" or houseboats,
where people lived in the rather disagreeable summer months, coming over to business every
day by ferry. Everything there invites out of doors.

The climate of California is peculiar; it is hard to give an impression of it. In the region
about San Francisco, all the forces of nature work on their own laws. There is no such thing
as a change of clothing for the seasons. And after becoming acclimated these people find it
hard to bear the changes from hot to cold in the normal regions of the earth. Perhaps once
in two or three years there comes a day when there is no fog, no wind, and a high temperature
in the coast district. Then follows hot weather, perhaps up in the eighties, and Californians
grumble, swelter and rustle for summer clothes. These rare hot days are the only times when
one sees women in light dresses on the streets of San Francisco.

Along in early May the rains cease. At that time everything is green and bright, and the great
golden poppies, as large as the saucer of an after-dinner coffee cup, are blossoming everywhere.
Tamalpais is green to its top; everything is washed and bright. By late May a yellow tinge
is creeping over the hills. This is followed by a golden June and a brown July and August.
The hills are burned and dry. The fog comes in heavily, too; and normally this is the most
disagreeable season of the year. September brings a day or two of gentle rain; and then a change,
as sweet and mysterious as the breaking of spring in the East, passes over the hills. The green
grows through the brown and the flowers begin to come out.

As a matter of fact, the unpleasantness of summer is modified by the certainty that one can
go anywhere without fear of rain. And in all the coast mountains, especially the seaward slopes,
the dews and the shelter of the giant underbrush hold the water, so that these areas are green
and pleasant all summer.

In a normal year the rains begin to fall heavily in November; there will be three or four days
of steady downpour and then a clear and green week. December is also likely to be rainy; and
in this month people enjoy the sensation of gathering for Christmas the mistletoe which grows
profusely on the live oaks, while the poppies are beginning to blossom at their feet. By the
end of January the gentle rains come lighter. In the long spaces between these winter storms,
there is a temperature and a feeling in the air much like that of Indian summer in the East.
January is the month when the roses are at their brightest.

So much for the strange climate, which invites out of doors and which has played its part in
making the character of the people. The externals of the city are--or were, for they are no
more--just as curious. One usually entered San Francisco by way of the Bay. Across its yellow
flood, covered with the fleets from the strange seas of the Pacific, San Francisco presented
itself in a hill panorama. Probably no other city of the world, excepting perhaps Naples, could
be so viewed at first sight. It rose above the passenger, as he reached dockage, in a succession
of hill terraces. At one side was Telegraph Hill, the end of the peninsula, a height so abrupt
that it had a one hundred and fifty foot sheer cliff on its seaward frontage. Further along
lay Nob Hill, crowned with the Mark Hopkins mansion, which had the effect of a citadel, and
in later years by the great, white Fairmount. Further along was Russian Hill, the highest point.
Below was the business district, whose low site caused all the trouble.

Yet the most characteristic thing after all was the coloring. The sea fog had a trick of painting
every exposed object a sea gray which had a tinge of dull green in it. This, under the leaden
sky of a San Francisco morning, had a depressing effect on first sight and afterward became
a delight to the eye. It is unnecessary to say that no teams ever came up this street or any
other like it, and grass grew long among the paving stones until the Italians who live thereabouts
took advantage of this herbage to pasture a cow or two. At the end of four blocks, the pavers
had given it up and the last stage to the summit was a winding path. On the very top, a colony
of artists lived in little villas of houses whose windows got the whole panorama of the bay.
Luckily for these people, a cable car scaled the hill on the other side, so that it was not
much of a climb to home.

Along the waterfront the people of these craft met. "The smelting pot of the races," Stevenson
called it; and this was always the city of his soul. There were black Gilbert Islanders, almost
indistinguishable from negroes; lighter Kanakas from Hawaii or Samoa; Lascars in turbans; thickset
Russian sailors, wild Chinese with unbraided hair; Italian fishermen in tam o' shanters, loud
shirts and blue sashes; Greeks, Alaska Indians, little bay Spanish-Americans, together with
men of all the European races. These came in and out from among the queer craft, to lose themselves
in the disreputable, tumble-down, but always mysterious shanties and small saloons. In the
back rooms of these saloons South Sea Island traders and captains, fresh from the lands of
romance, whaling masters, people who were trying to get up treasure expeditions, filibusters,
Alaskan miners, used to meet and trade adventures.

There was another element, less picturesque and equally characteristic, along the waterfront.
San Francisco was the back eddy of European civilization--one end of the world. The drifters
came there and stopped, lingered a while to live by their wits in a country where living after
a fashion has always been marvellously cheap. These people haunted the waterfront and the Barbary
Coast by night, and lay by day on the grass in Portsmouth Square.

The square, the old plaza about which the city was built, Spanish fashion, had seen many things.
There in the first burst of the early days the vigilance committee used to hold its hangings.
There, in the time of the sand lot troubles, Dennis Kearney, who nearly pulled the town down
about his ears, used to make his orations which set the unruly to rioting. In later years Chinatown
lay on one side of it and the Latin quarter and the "Barbary Coast" on the other.

On this square the drifters lay all day long and told strange yams. Stevenson lounged there
with them in his time and learned the things which he wove into "The Wrecker" and his South
Sea stories; and now in the centre of the square there stands the beautiful Stevenson monument.
In later years the authorities put up a municipal building on one side of this square and prevented
the loungers, for decency's sake, from lying on the grass. Since then some of the peculiar
character of the old plaza has gone.

The Barbary Coast was a loud bit of hell. No one knows who coined the name. Some difficulty has arisen as
to the production of Knowles's new play at the Haymarket Theatre. Mr. Charles Kean and Miss Helen
Faucit having objected to hear the play read, "because their respective parts had not been previously
submitted to them."--Sunday Times.--[We are of opinion that they were decidedly right. One might as
well expect a child to spell without learning the alphabet, as either of the above persons to understand Knowles,
unless enlightened by a long course of previous instruction.]

* * * * *

THE LETTER OF INTRODUCTION.

[From a MS. drama called the "COURT OF VICTORIA."

Scene in Windsor Castle.

[Her Majesty discovered sitting thoughtfully at an escrutoire.--

Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN.]

LORD CHAMBERLAIN.--May it please your Majesty, a letter from the Duke of
Wellington.

THE QUEEN (opens the letter.)--Oh! a person for the vacant place of
Premier--show the bearer in, my lord.

[Exit LORD CHAMBERLAIN.

THE QUEEN (muses).--Sir Robert Peel--I have heard that name before, as connected
with my family. If I remember rightly, he held the situation of adviser
to the crown in the reign of Uncle William, and was discharged for
exacting a large discount on all the state receipts; yet Wellington
is very much interested in his favour.

Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN, who ushers in SIR ROBERT, and then retires. As he is going--]

LORD CHAMBERLAIN (aside).--If you do get the berth, Sir Robert, I
hope you'll not give me warning. [Exit.

SIR ROBERT (looking demurely).--Hem!

[The Queen regards him very attentively.]

THE QUEEN (aside).--I don't much like the looks of the fellow--that
affectation of simplicity is evidently intended to conceal the real
cunning of his character.

(Aloud). You are of
course aware of the nature and the duties of the situation which
you solicit?

SIR ROBERT.--Oh, yes, your Majesty; I have filled it before, and liked
it very much.

THE QUEEN.--It's a most responsible post, for upon your conduct much
of the happiness of my other servants depends.

SIR ROBERT.--I am aware of that, your Majesty; but as no one can
hope to please everybody, I will only answer that one half shall be
perfectly satisfied.

THE QUEEN.--You have recently returned from
Tamworth?

SIR ROBERT.--Yes, your Majesty.

THE QUEEN.--We will dispense
with forms. At Tamworth, you have been practising as a quack doctor?

SIR
ROBERT.--Yes, madam; I was brought up to doctoring, and am a professor
of sleight-of-hand.

THE QUEEN.--What have you done in the latter
art to entitle you to such a distinction?

SIR ROBERT.--I have performed
some very wonderful changes. When I was out of place, I had opinions
strongly opposed to Catholic emancipation; but when I got into service
I changed them in the course of a few days.

THE QUEEN.--I have heard
that you boast of possessing a nostrum for the restoration of the
public good. What is it?

SIR ROBERT.--Am I to consider myself "as
regularly called in?"

THE QUEEN.--That is a question I decline answering
at present. Then there was an influx of intellectual French people, largely overlooked in the histories
of the early days; and this Latin leaven has had its influence. The true Californian lingers
in the north; for southern California has been built up by "lungers" from the East and middle
West and is Eastern in character and feeling.

Almost has the Californian developed a racial physiology. He tends to size, to smooth symmetry
of limb and trunk, to an erect, free carriage; and the beauty of his women is not a myth. The
pioneers were all men of good body, they had to be to live and leave descendants. The bones
of the weaklings who started for El Dorado in 1849 lie on the plains or in the hill-cemeteries
of the mining camps. Heredity began it; climate has carried it on. All things that grow in
California tend to become large, plump, luscious. Fruit trees, grown from cuttings of Eastern
stock, produce fruit larger and finer, if coarser in flavor, than that of the parent tree. Here a
fold in the paper has destroyed a line of the writing.

The letter is a sacred family paper, and there is not justification for going
farther into its faded and, in some parts, almost obliterated writing.

But so much may
pass into these pages as a pleasant authentication of what otherwise
might be altogether too sweet a double nut for the critic's teeth
to crack.

While Adrienne and Alice were still discussing the probability
of Rene de Ronville's return, M. Roussillon came to the door. At the University of California, where the student body is nearly all native,
the gymnasium measurements show that the girls are a little more than two inches taller than
their sisters of Vassar and Michigan.

The greatest beauty-show on the continent was the Saturday afternoon matinee parade in San
Francisco. Women in so-called "society" took no part in this function. It belonged to the middle
class, but the "upper classes" have no monopoly of beauty anywhere in the world. It had grown
to be independent of the matinees. From two o'clock to half-past five, a solid procession of
Dianas, Hebes and Junos passed and repassed along the five blocks between Market and Powell
and Sutter and Kearney--the "line" of San Francisco slang. Along the open-front cigar stores,
characteristic of the town, gilded youth of the cocktail route gathered in knots to watch them.
There was something Latin in the spirit of this ceremony--it resembled church parade in Buenos
Ayres. Latin, too, were the gay costumes of the women, who dressed brightly in accord with
the city and the climate. This gaiety of costume was the first thing which the Eastern woman
noticed--and disapproved. Give her a year, and she, too, would be caught by the infection of
daring dress.

In this parade of tall, deep bosomed, gleaming women, one caught the type and longed, sometimes
for the sight of a more ethereal beauty--for the suggestion of soul within which belongs to
a New England woman on whom a hard soil has bestowed a grudged beauty--for the mobility, the
fire, which belongs to the Frenchwoman. The second generation of France was in this crowd,
it is true; but climate and exercise had grown above their spiritual charm a cover of brilliant
flesh. It was the beauty of Greece.

With such a people, life was always gay. If the fairly Parisian gaiety did not display itself
on the streets, except in the matinee parade, it was because the winds made open-air cafes
disagreeable at all seasons of the year. The life careless went on indoors or in the hundreds
of pretty estates--"ranches" the Californians called them--which fringe the city.

San Francisco was famous for its restaurants and cafes. Probably they were lacking at the top;
probably the very best, for people who do not care how they spend their money, was not to be
had. But they gave the best fare on earth, for the price, at a dollar, seventy-five cents,
a half a dollar, or even fifteen cents.

If one should tell exactly what could be had at Coppa's for fifty cents or at the Fashion for,
say thirty-five, no New Yorker who has not been there would believe it. The San Francisco French
dinner and the San Francisco free lunch were as the Public Library to Boston or the stock yards
to Chicago. A number of causes contributed to this.

Listen! O ye starved amidst plenty, to the tale of the Hotel de France. This restaurant stood
on California street, just east of Old St. Mary's Church. One could throw a biscuit from its
back windows into Chinatown. It occupied a big ramshackle house, which had been a mansion of
the gold days. Louis, the proprietor, was a Frenchman of the Bas Pyrenees; and his accent was
as thick as his peasant soups. The patrons were Frenchmen of the poorer class, or young and
poor clerks and journalists who had discovered the delights of his hostelry. He bowed to the patriotic
thousands in the street, on the sidewalks, in the windows, on the
house-tops, and they cheered him as the lawfully elected President
of the United States and bade him go on and, with God's help, save
the Union.

His companion in the street car has often wondered since then what Mr. Lincoln
thought about during the remainder of his ride that night to the
Astor House. The Cooper Institute had, owing to a snowstorm, not
been full, and its intelligent, respectable, non-partisan audience
had not rung out enthusiastic applause like a concourse of Western
auditors magnetised by their own enthusiasm.

Had the address--the most carefully prepared, the most elaborately investigated
and demonstrated and verified of all the work of his life--been
a failure?

But in the matter of quality and ability, if not of quantity and enthusiasm, he had never addressed
such an audience; and some of the ablest men in the Northern States had expressed
their opinion of the address in terms which left no doubt of the highest
appreciation. Did Mr. Lincoln regard the address which he had just
delivered to a small and critical audience as a success? Did he have
the faintest glimmer of the brilliant effect which was to follow? Did he
feel the loneliness of the situation--the want of his loyal Illinois
adherents?

Did his sinking heart infer that he was but a speck of humanity to which the
great city would never again give a thought? Every autumn, he brought tons and tons of cheap Mission grapes,
set up a wine press in his back yard, and had a little, festival vintage of his own. The fruit
was small, and inferior, but fresh, and Louis himself, in speaking of his business, said that
he wished his guests would eat nothing but fruit, it came so cheap.

The city never went to bed. There was no closing law, so that the saloons kept open nights
and Sundays at their own sweet will. Most of the cafes elected to remain open until 2 o'clock
in the morning at least.

This restaurant life, however does not express exactly the careless, pleasure-loving character
of the people. In great part their pleasures were simple, inexpensive and out of doors. No
people were fonder of expeditions into the country, of picnics--which might be brought off
at almost any season of the year--and of long tours in the great mountains and forests.

Hospitality was nearly a vice. As in the early mining days, if they liked the stranger the
people took him in. At the first meeting the San Francisco man had him put up at the club;
at the second, he invited him home to dinner. As long as the stranger stayed he was being invited
to week end parties at ranches, to little dinners in this or that restaurant and to the houses
of his new acquaintances, until his engagements grew beyond hope of fulfilment. Perhaps there
was rather too much of this kind of thing. At the end of a fortnight a visitor with a pleasant
smile and a good story left the place a wreck. This tendency ran through all grades of society--except,
perhaps, the sporting people who kept the tracks and the fighting game alive. These also met
the stranger--and also took him in.

Centres of man hospitality were the clubs, especially the famous Bohemian and the Family. The
latter was an offshot of the Bohemian; and it had been growing fast and vieing with the older
organization for the honor of entertaining pleasing and distinguished visitors.

The Bohemian Club, whose real founder is said to have been the late Henry George, was formed
in the '70s by newspaper writers and men working in the arts or interested in them. It had
grown to a membership of 750. It still kept for its nucleus painters, writers, musicians and
actors, amateur and professional. They were a gay group of men, and hospitality was their avocation.
Yet the thing which set this club off from all others in the world was the midsummer High Jinks. 

CENTRAL SYNCOPATIONS.

1. Syncopate an orifice, and leave a troublesome insect. 2. Syncopate
to cut, and get a natural underground chamber. 3. Syncopate a wise
saying, and get to injure. 4. Syncopate a small house, and leave a
fugitive named in the Bible. The sempervirens,
however, reaches the diameter of 16 feet, and some of the greatest trees of this species are
in the Bohemian Club grove. It lies in a cleft of the mountains: and up one hillside there
runs a natural out of doors stage of remarkable acoustic properties.

In August the whole Bohemian Club, or such as could get away from business, went up to this
grove and camped out for two weeks. On the last night they put on the Jinks proper, a great
spectacle in praise of the forest with poetic words, music and effects done by the club. In
late years this has been practically a masque or an opera. It cost about $10,000. "Very intelligent,
but a man whose spirit it was impossible to subdue; and possessing an ambition which stopped
at nothing, he became involved in secret intrigues, and was degraded from his rank by his Highness
the Grand Duke, and exiled to Siberia." It would not be possible anywhere else in this country;
the thing which made it possible was the art spirit which is in the Californian. It runs in
the blood.

"Who's Who in America" is long on the arts and on learning and comparatively weak in business
and the professions. Now some one who has taken the trouble has found that more persons mentioned
in "Who's Who" by the thousand of the population were born in Massachusetts, than in any other
state; but that Massachusetts is crowded closely by California, with the rest nowhere. The
institutions of learning in Massachusetts account for her pre-eminence; the art spirit does
it for California. The really big men nurtured on California influence are few, perhaps; but
she has sent out an amazing number of good workers in painting, in authorship, in music and
especially in acting. 

352. Coronation of the Remains of Ines de Castro.--G. St. Evie.--An attractive picture of one of the
most extraordinary scenes in history. The remains of Dona Ines de Castro taken out of her tomb six
years after the interment, when she was proclaimed queen of Portugal. Outside of the city,
at Burlingame, there was a fine country club centering a region of country estates which stretched
out to Menlo Park. This club had a good polo team, which played every year with teams of Englishmen
from southern California and even with teams from Honolulu.

The foreign quarters are worth an article in themselves. Chief of these was, of course, Chinatown,
of which every one has heard who ever heard of San Francisco. A district six blocks long and
two blocks wide, housed 30,000 Chinese when the quarter was full.

In the last five years there was less of this underground life than formerly, for the Board
of Health had a cleanup some time ago; but it was still possible to go from one end of Chinatown
to the other through secret underground passages. The tourist, who always included Chinatown
in his itinerary, saw little of the real quarter. The guides gave him a show by actors hired
for his benefit. In reality the place amounted to a great deal in a financial way. There were
clothing and cigar factories of importance, and much of the Pacific rice, tea and silk importing
was in the hands of the merchants, who numbered several millionaires. (For the Mirror.)

These remains of ancient art are destined to be removed to Europe.[7]
The palace of Cleopatra was built upon the walls facing the port
of Alexandria, Egypt, having a gallery on the outside, supported
by several fine columns. There were two theatres in the quarter, a number of rich joss
houses, three newspapers and a Chinese telephone exchange. There is a race feeling against
the Chinese among the working people of San Francisco, and no white man, except the very lowest
outcasts, lived in the quarter.

On the slopes of Telegraph Hill dwelt the Mexicans and Spanish, in low houses, which they had
transformed by balconies into a semblance of Spain. Above, and streaming over the hill, were
the Italians. Federally regulated financial institutions were generically analyzed to determine their
ability to continue to promote essential services in the event of a major earthquake like those that
have been postulated for this assessment. Their shanties clung to the side of the hill or hung on
the very edge of the precipice overlooking the bay, on the verge of which a wall kept their
babies from falling. The effect was picturesque, and this hill was the delight of painters.
It was all more like Italy than anything in the Italian quarter of New York and Chicago--the
very climate and surroundings, the wine country close at hand, the bay for their lateen boats,
helped them.

Over by the ocean and surrounded by cemeteries in which there are no more burials, there is
an eminence which is topped by two peaks and which the Spanish of the early days named after
the breasts of a woman. The unpoetic Americans had renamed it Twin Peaks. At its foot was Mission
Dolores, the last mission planted by the Spanish padres in their march up the coast, and from
these hills the Spanish looked for the first time upon the golden bay.

Many years ago some one set up at the summit of this peak a sixty foot cross of timber. Once
a high wind blew it down, and the women of the Fair family then had it restored so firmly that
it would resist anything. And though with fits of lingering life The wounded foe prolong the strife,
On Luther's deed we build our hope, Our steady faith--the fond old
Pope Is dying, and shall die.

TRADITIONS AND TALES OF UPPER LUSATIA.

No. II

THE FAIRY TUTOR.

The bonny, merry city--the good, gray city--O that one who has mingled the wine of her bounding
life with the wine of his youth should live to write the obituary of Old San Francisco!

