An Impressed Soldier
  III. Only a Stoker
   IV. A Struggle in the Sea
    V. Into Service
   VI. A Letter Home
  VII. A Bit of Romance
 VIII. Happiness for Helen
   IX. Visions
    X. Victory
   XI. Days of Waiting
  XII. Greater Things

ILLUSTRATIONS

One, two, three steps past him went the sentry
  again. . . . . . . . . . . . Frontispiece

Trench layout diagram

SHELLED BY AN UNSEEN FOE

CHAPTER I

THE CALL OF HOME

Reveille was over at the military school, and the three boys on the end of the line nearest
the mess hall walked slowly toward the broad steps of the big brick building ahead.  They differed
greatly in type, but of this they were unconscious, for all were deep in thought.

"I am going home," said the tallest boy abruptly.  "Had a letter from my sister last night.
My word, they are having some ripping times over there!"

"Your father won't let you," said the second lad.  "How can you go to England when I can't
get back to Mexico?"

"I can jolly well go," said the tall boy.  "I've been planning for this.  Mid-term is over,
and I haven't told you chaps, but I've been hoarding every cent of my allowance all winter.
I have enough and to spare for second cabin."

"But your father wants you here out of harm's way," urged the Mexican.

"He thinks he does," said Nickell-Wheelerson smiling, his blue eyes flashing.  "He thinks he
does, but I know he is just trying me out. Here's the way it is.  Dad's in the field and my
second brother; you know my oldest brother was shot in the trenches in France two months ago.
I'm nineteen.  There are two little chaps to carry on the name and take care of the title,
if the rest of us go.  I've just got to get over there!  Don't you see how it is?"

"Of course!" said the Mexican, his dark eyes glowing gloomily.  "Of course you feel you've
got to go!  And here I must stay.  I want to go home too."

"It's different with you," said Nickell-Wheelerson, patting his companion on the back.  "You
keep out of that mess!  Mexico is going to need you worse later on."

"How about you?" demanded Morales, the Mexican.  "I should think England would need you when
that mess, as you call it, is finished."

"She needs me now, and I know it, and dad knows it," Nick assured him. "I'm going home!  You'd
better be glad you are not mixed up in this thing," he said, turning to the third boy.  "You
are safe awhile yet, you old Greece-spot, you!"

"There are some Greeks fighting; a few on the European border of the Dardanelles," said the
boy addressed.

"Oh, of course you will get into it sooner or later," said Nick, "but I'm banking on that queen
of yours to stall things along as far as she can.  She can't put it off forever, though.  You
will be in it."

"As sure as my name is Zaidos," said the young Greek, "you are quite right!  We will have to
fight sooner or later."

"Well, don't cross bridges," said Nick.  "Sit tight, and I'll go over there and help clean
up things."

Light-heartedly they raced up the steep hill leading from the parade ground to the mess hall.

A slim young orderly came out of the Adjutant's office onto the terrace and looked about. 
Seeing the three boys, he called in a high, clear voice, "Oh, you Nosey!" and as the Greek
approached added formally, "Corporal Zaidos is wanted by the Adjutant."

"What's he going to get ragged for now, I wonder," mused Nickell-Wheelerson as he and Morales
joined the crowd and went into the mess hall.

Zaidos did not come back.  Nick watched the door anxiously.  They were room-mates, and Nick
was well aware of Nosey's tendencies in the way of breaking minor rules.  As soon as he could
get out of the mess, he hurried down past the Adjutant's office, and hastily framing an errand,
went in.  The room was empty.

Nick hurried over to the barracks to their room.  Sitting on the side of his narrow bunk, his
hands clenched, his face white, was Zaidos.

"What's the row, old top?" Nick sang out cheerfully as he made a great pretense of picking
up his books and stuffing a couple of pencils in the top of his pigskin puttee.

The young Greek shook his head, and Nick realized that it was something indeed very serious
with him.

"What is the row, old man?" he said again, coming over and sitting beside his friend.  "What
has the Adjutant got in for you this time?"

"Nothing," said Zaidos.  "He had a cablegram from home.  It is pretty bad, Nick . . ." He paused.
"My father is sick; fact is, he is dying; and I've got to leave to-night."

"Gosh!" exclaimed Nick.  "That's too bad!  I'm more than sorry!"

"Yes, it's bad," said Zaidos.  "And the queer thing is that I don't seem to feel as sorry about
my father dying as I do to think that I don't know him any better.  Think of it, Nick, I came
over here to school when I was not quite seven.  My mother died when I was six, and since that
I have seen my father twice; once when he came over here, and the year I went home.  And it
is not as though there was not plenty of money.  I suppose my father is the richest man, or
one of the richest men, in Greece.  He's just--Oh, I don't know!  He never seemed to be like
a lot of fathers I have seen.  I never could get next to him.  And I've been pretty lonely
most all my life.  I have always planned to go back as soon as I finished school, and get acquainted
with my father.  I thought if I tried, I could make him like me.  I suppose he does well enough,
but I wanted to be chummy with him.  I thought I could if I tried."

"You bet you could, Nosey!" said Nick, an arm over the bowed shoulder beside him.  "You could
warm up a wooden Indian, you old live-wire, you!  I jolly well know you!  You would get under
the crust if anyone could!  Perhaps it isn't as bad as they think.  You go home, and perhaps
your father will get better, and you will get to be the best chums in the world.  Cheer up,
old chap!  It will come out all right. Do you really go tonight?"

"Yes, I go to-night.  They have got my tickets, and now they are telephoning for my passage."

Nickell-Wheelerson sat thinking hard.  Then he rose and bolted for the door.

"Wait!" called Zaidos.  "I want you to help me pack, Nick." 

Dey wuz a little gal too; Ben didn' pay much 'tention ter de gal, but he wuz
monst'us fond er Dasdy an' de boy. He wuz sorry ter leab 'em, an' he didn' tell
'em nuffin' 'bout it fer fear dey'd make a fuss. But on Friday night Ben
tuk all de bread an' meat dey wuz in de cabin an' made fer de woods.

"W'en
Sad'day come an' Ben didn' 'pear, an' nobody didn' know nuffin' 'bout
'im, Mars Marrabo 'lowed of co'se dat Ben had runned erway.

He got up a pahty an' tuk de dawgs out an' follered de scen' down ter
de crick an' los' it.

Fer Ben had tuk a go'd-full er tar 'long wid' 'im, an' w'en he got ter
de crick he had 'n'inted his feet wid tar, an' dat th'owed de houns'
off'n de scent. Dey sarched de woods an' follered de roads an' kep' watchin'
fer a week, but dey couldn' fin' no sign er Ben.

An' den Mars Marrabo got mo' stric', an' wuked his niggers hahder'n eber, ez ef he wanted ter try ter make
up fer his loss.

"W'en Ben stahted out he wanted ter go ter de No'th.

He didn' know how fur it wuz, bet he 'lowed he retch dar in fo' er five
days. He knowed de No'th Stah, an' de fus night he kep' gwine right straight to'ds
it. But de nex' night it was rainin,' an' fer two er th'ee nights it
stayed cloudy, an' Ben couldn' see de No'th Stah. Howsomeber, he
knowed he had got stahted right' an' he kep' gwine right straight
on de same way fer a week er mo' 'spectin' ter git ter de No'th eve'y
day, w'en one mawin' early, atter he had b'en walkin' all night,
he come right smack out on de crick jes whar he had stahted f'om.

"Co'se Ben wuz monst'us disapp'inted. He had been wond'rin' w'y he hadn'
got ter de No'th befo,' an' behol,' heah he wuz back on de ole plantation.
He couldn' un'erstan' it at fus,' but he wuz so hongry he didn' hab time
ter study 'bout nuffin' fer a little w'ile but jes' ter git sump'n'
ter eat; fer he had done eat up de bread an' meat he tuk away wid
'im, an' had been libbin' on roas'n-ears an' sweet'n taters he'd slip
out'n de woods an' fin' in co'n fiel's 'an 'tater-patches.

He look 'cross de crick, an' seed dis yer clay-bank, an' he waded ober an' got all he could eat, an'
den tuk a lump wid 'im, an' hid in de woods ag'in 'til he could study de matter ober some.

"Fus' he 'lowed dat he better gib hiss'ef up an' take his lammin.' But jes' den he 'membered de way Mars
Marrabo looked at 'im an' w'at he said 'bout Sad'day night; an' den he
'lowed dat ef Mars Marrabo ketch 'im now, he'd wear 'im ter a frazzle
an' chaw up de frazzle, so de wouldn' be nuffin' lef' un 'im at all, an'
dat Mars Marrabo would make a' example an' a warnin' of 'im fer all de
niggers in de naberhood.

Fac' is Mars Marrabo prob'ly wouldn' a' done much ter 'im fer it 'ud be monst'us
po' 'couragement fer runaway niggers ter come back, ef dey gwineter
git killed w'en dey come. An' so Ben waited 'til night, an' den he went
back an' got some mo' clay an' eat it an' hid hisse'f in de woods ag'in.

"Well,
hit wuz quare 'bout Ben, but he stayed roun' heah fer a mont,' hidin'
in de woods in de daytime, an' slippin' out nights an' gittin' clay
ter eat an' water f'om de crick yanker ter drink.

De water in dat crick wuz cl'ar in dem days, stidder bein' yallar lak
it is now."

We had observed that the water, like that of most streams that take their rise in swamps, had
an amber tint to which the sand and clay background of the bed of the
stream imparted an even yellower hue.

"What did he do then, Julius?" asked my wife, who liked to hear the
end of a story.

"Well, Miss, he made up his min' den dat he wuz gwineter staht fer de
No'th ag'in.

But wiles he b'en layin' roun' in de woods he had 'mence ter feel monst'us lonesome, an' it 'peared ter him dat
he jes' couldn' go widout seein' Dasdy an' little Pete. Fus' he 'lowed he'd go up ter de
cabin, but he thought 'bout de dogs 'roun' de yahd, an' dat de yuther
dahkies mought see 'im, and so he 'cided he'd better watch fer 'em
'til dey come long de road--it wuz dis yer same road--w'en he could
come out'n de woods an' talk ter 'em. An' he eben 'lowed he mought
'suade 'em ter run erway wid 'im an' dey could all get ter de No'th,
fer de nights wuz cl'ar now, an' he couldn' lose de No'th Stah.

"So
he waited two er th'ee days, an' sho' nuff long come Dasdy one mornin,'
comin' over to Mars Dugal's fer ter fetch some things fer her missis.  The officer in charge was an overbearing First Lieutenant who was overworked,
tired and irritable.  He had come from a distant part of Greece, and the name of Zaidos carried
no weight with him.  He shook his head when Zaidos made his request.  He even smiled a little.
"Too thin, too thin!" he said. "I should say that all the mothers and fathers, and most of
the uncles and aunts and cousins in the world are ill," he sneered.  "No, you can't go.  Get
back there in line and wait for your squad to be outfitted."

Zaidos shrugged his shoulders and obeyed, well knowing that, once in uniform, even that display
of feeling would be absolutely out of order. He had been too long in a military school to misunderstand
military procedure, and he knew that whatever queer chance had placed him in his present position,
the thing was done now.  He was to see real fighting.

Zaidos had a lion's heart and was absolutely ignorant of fear, but he worried when he thought
of the possible effect on his father.  He, poor man, would feel that his natural wish to behold
his only son once more had placed the boy in a position of the gravest danger; indeed, in the
path of almost certain death.  What the effect of this knowledge would be on his health, Zaidos
trembled to consider.  But he was powerless to avoid the shock to his father, and once more
shrugging his shoulders he stepped into line.

After a tedious delay, during which the men and boys who were unaccustomed to any sort of drill
shifted uneasily from foot to foot, shuffled, twisted, and fretted generally, while Zaidos
alone stood easily at attention, the order was given for the squad to go into another room.

Here they were registered, examined physically, and equipped with uniforms.  Then they were
finally taken to the mess hall and provided with a wholesome, plain meal which they proceeded
to enjoy to the utmost.  Zaidos could not eat.  He toyed with the food, his quick brain ever
planning some way by which he could get to his father.  The more he thought of it the more
it seemed to be his duty to do so at any cost.  But he seemed surrounded by barriers.  He could
not see a way clear.  So he resigned himself for the present, and marched to the dormitory
where his squad was quartered.  It had been a trying and exhausting day for everyone and his
peasant companions, accustomed to bed-time at sunset, soon threw themselves down and slept.

The sleeping quarters were on the ground floor.  Zaidos found his pallet behind a great door
opening on the street.  It was open a trifle, but a heavy chain secured it from opening any
further.  Zaidos stuck his head out.  There was enough space for that.  It was the blackest
night he had ever seen, if one could be said to see anything as dark.

A sentry padded up and down in the blackness.  Zaidos smiled.  The man could certainly not
see five feet ahead of him.  All the city lights were out for safety's sake.  As he approached,
Zaidos drew back, and lay staring at the ceiling.

A stifled sob startled him.  He turned.  On the next pallet a young fellow lay face downward,
and muffled his weeping in the coarse blanket.  For an hour Zaidos listened.  The shaken breathing
and occasional sobs continued.  Zaidos could stand it no longer.  He reached over and let a
friendly clasp fall on the heaving shoulder.

"What is it?" he whispered in his best Greek.

The young fellow turned to him eagerly, glad of sympathy.  In a rush of words that made it
hard for Zaidos to understand, he whispered his story.  There was a wife and a little, little
baby, "Oh, so little!" far up on the mountain-side; they would starve; surely, surely they
would starve!  They did not know what had become of him.  Zaidos tried in vain to calm the
man.  He could not do so and finally dropped into a restless sleep with the man's stifled sobs
ringing in his ears.

Zaidos had to concede that the man's fate was a hard one.  He was only nineteen years of age.
The girl-wife was seventeen.  As Zaidos dropped asleep he was reflecting that no doubt nine-tenths
of the men sleeping in that room carried burdens as well as the young mountaineer and himself.

He was wakened awhile later by a touch on the shoulder nearest the door.  A voice addressed
him.  For a moment Zaidos was unable to locate it.  Then he discovered that it was coming from
the partly open door. It was the young husband who had sobbed in the dark.

"Waken, friend!" said the low whisper.  "Waken!  Farewell!  I go! There is a small packet under
my pallet.  I forgot it.  Will you hand it quickly before the sentry turns?"

"Don't do a fool stunt like that," said Zaidos in English.

The deserter repeated, "Quickly, quickly!" and as Zaidos handed him the packet he disappeared,
the night swallowing him in its blackness. Zaidos crawled to the door and, flat on the floor,
put his head out the opening into the street.  All was quiet.  The sentry marched up and down
the long block with the dragging slowness of a weary man.  The mountaineer had escaped!

Somewhere a clock struck eleven booming strokes.  Zaidos could not believe that it was so early,
but immediately another faint chime verified the first.  Here and there in the room heavy snoring
or muttered words sounded.  There were no guards in the room as the door was locked.

Eleven o'clock!  Five hours before daylight.  A daring thought flashed into Zaidos' head. 
He knelt and once more leaned through the opening of the door.  He thanked his schoolboy leanness.
There was enough space!  He waited until the sentry's heavy footfall dragged to the end of
the block; then with a struggle he twisted through the door and stood in the open, deserted street.

In the years of his absence he had forgotten the city, but he remembered the general directions,
and only yesterday he had seen in the distance the gleaming white marble walls of his home
standing on the beautiful headland overlooking the blue waters of the bay.  He heard the sentry
approaching and, trusting to instinct, turned into the nearest street and hurried away.

It seemed to Zaidos that the journey was endless, yet he went like the wind.  He found himself
searching the east for dawn.  His instinct did for him what sight and reason would have failed
to do.  In daylight he would have been lost, but in that black darkness he kept his course,
and finally the great white building where his fathers for generations had lived loomed mysteriously
before him.  He hurried up the broad stairs and besieged the massive doors with heavy blows.
A startled footman opened it, and with a curt word Zaidos entered and demanded his father.
The man bowed and led him up to a closed door.  Here he knocked softly and a stout old woman
answered.  She looked hard at the young man in uniform, then with a little cry clasped him
in a warm embrace.  It was his old nurse.

"Ah," she cried, "God has answered my prayers!  You are in time!"

A chill of apprehension swept over the boy.  "Is he so ill?" he asked.

"He has waited for you," she answered.  "I told him you would come.  I knew it.  He has been
dying for many days, but he would not go until he saw you."

"Let me come," said Zaidos.  He dashed past the old woman, the nurses and the doctors, and
was clasped in his father's arms.

CHAPTER II

AN IMPRESSED SOLDIER

The events of that night long remained in Zaidos' memory, a blurred picture of pain and heart-break.
There was a brief and precious hour with the father whom he had so seldom seen; a time filled
with the priceless last communications which seemed to bridge all absence and bring them close,
close together at last.  His coming seemed to fill his dying father with a strange new strength.
He talked rationally and earnestly with his beloved son.  Zaidos could not believe that the
end was near.  Count Zaidos gave the boy a paper containing a list of the places where the
family treasure was put away or concealed.  Also other papers of the greatest value.  Without
these he would be unable to prove his heirship to the title and estates of the Zaidos family.
In case of the boy's death all would go to a distant cousin, Velo Kupenol, who had long made
his home with the Count.  Zaidos turned to meet this cousin, whom he had not seen for so many
years that his existence had been forgotten.  He saw a keen, ferret-faced lad, a little older
than himself.  He took an instant dislike to the boy, and rebuked himself for doing so.  Yet
the hard eyes looked too steadily into his, with a cold, piercing, deadly look.

"I'm in the way," thought Zaidos, as he turned again to his father. And some sure instinct
in his heart cried, "Beware, beware!"

When the dying Count handed the thin packet of precious papers to his son, Zaidos slipped them
in the inner pocket of his blouse.  At that moment Velo approached the bedside.

"Uncle," he said, "unfortunately my cousin here has been impressed into service.  Would it
not be well for me to keep these papers?  I would guard them with my life, and as I do not
intend to fight they would be safe with me in any case."

The Count frowned.  "No," he cried.  "Velo Kupenol, I have not found you true to your name!
You have been here with me for years, and I know you through and through.  I have treated you
with all patience, have paid your debts, have saved you from disgrace for the sake of the family.
I have forgiven you over and over.  You have not shown me even the loyalty that a true friend
would expect, to say nothing of a relative.  If anything happens to my son, unfortunately the
estates will be yours; but while he lives, the papers will remain in his possession, to do
with as he sees fit.  Ah!" he cried, turning to his son, "be worthy of our name, my boy!  No
Zaidos has ever yet disgraced it.  I put my trust in you, and I know you will not fail me.
To the day she died, your mother planned great things for her baby boy.  She--"

He fixed his eyes on space.  A look of surprise and happiness lit his face.  Slowly he raised
his arms as though in greeting, then sank back, dead.

Zaidos, kneeling, buried his face in the pillow.  So it was over, all over!  Someone raised
him to his feet, as the nurse tenderly drew the sheet over his father's face.  He lifted it
and with one last lingering look replaced it gently, then left the room.

The clock struck three.

As he sank wearily in a chair, the old nurse entered.  Her face was stained with tears.  She
glanced about, then seized Zaidos by the arm.

"Don't trust Velo!" she whispered, and left his side.  None too soon, for Velo entered the
room and with a gesture dismissed the old servant.

"Now, Zaidos," he said abruptly, "we will talk.  You are crazy to carry such valuables around
with you.  After we have had breakfast, we will decide where to keep those papers.  I am the
next in line, as you know, and it is only just that I should know where they are in case you
should get in trouble."

Zaidos shook his head.  "I shall keep the papers," he said.  "Of course you may remain here.
I shall always look out for you.  I shall not be killed in this fighting; I feel it."

"So have other men," sneered Velo.  "How did you get away?"

Zaidos told him.

"Do you mean that you could not get permission, and that you escaped and came anyhow?" he asked,
an evil gleam lighting his narrow eyes.

"That's about it," said Zaidos, nodding.  "I must go back at once.  The doctor's car will take
me close to the barracks.  I must get there before dawn."  He went to the window and looked
out.  "I have no time to waste!" he cried.

"But look here, if you are caught, it means desertion," said Velo.

"Yes!"

"In war-time that means death," said Velo.

"Yes, but I am not going to be caught," answered Zaidos.

"Then you must hurry," declared his cousin.  "Wait here just a moment, and I will see that
the car is ready and get a cloak to cover you.  I almost fear you have waited too long, cousin,"
and hurried, from the room with a last sidelong look at Zaidos' bent head.

Five minutes passed; then with a last look at his father's closed door, Zaidos went down and
found Velo standing beside the automobile, talking to the chauffeur.  Already the intense blackness
of the night was lifting.  Zaidos felt a chill of apprehension.

"You will have to hurry," said his cousin.  "I will come down later and look you up.  Hope
you get back."  He stepped back, and the car shot forward, but only for a short distance. 
With a queer grinding noise the engine stopped.  The driver leaped out and examined it with
a flashlight.  He uttered an exclamation of dismay.

"Someone has put sand in the engine!" he exclaimed.  "Yet I have been in it all night long!"

"You must have left it," said Zaidos.  "Or did you go to sleep?"

"Yes, yes!" stammered the driver excitedly.  "I was called away just now, when Velo Kupenol
sent me to my master to tell him that I was to take you back to barracks.  Ah, what shall we do?"

"How far is it?" demanded Zaidos.  The night was lifting.  He shivered.

"A mile straight down that avenue, Excellency, until you reach the great fountain in the public
square.  Then a half block to the left. You cannot miss it, but you cannot make it before dawn."

"Good-bye!" called Zaidos.  He started down the wide avenue with the gentle, easy stride that
had made him the best long-distance runner in school.  His wind was perfect and he covered
ground like a deer; but clearer and clearer as he raced he could see the grey forms of surrounding
objects take shape.  He reached the fountain in the public square; he made the turn to the
left and slowed to a walk.  The sentry, walking slowly, reached the opposite corner, and before
Zaidos could reach the open door he turned.  It was too late to turn back.  Zaidos squared
his shoulders and approached.  The sentry eyed him sharply and was about to speak but Zaidos
said, "Good-morning," with civil ease. The man returned the salutation.  Then, "What are you
doing here?" he questioned.

"With a letter," said Zaidos, tapping his pocket.

"Where from?" demanded the sentry.

"Over there," said Zaidos, nodding his head in the direction of the avenue.  It was a bold
shot, but it carried.

"Oh!" said the sentry.  "The other barracks, eh?  Well, will your errand wait, or must I wake
them up within?"

"There is no hurry at all," said Zaidos, easily.  "I must see the commanding officer by seven
o'clock, that's all."

"Very well," said the man.  "I'll take you in then.  I'm tired enough myself tramping up and
down here all night.  That place is full of recruits, and a lot of them are unwilling ones,
I can tell you.  But they are under lock and key.  They can't escape.  All the air they get
even is from that crack in the door.  A fly couldn't get out there." He was a fat sentry, and
he laughed.  Zaidos joined his mirth.

"Perhaps a thin fly might," he said.

The man shrugged.  "Perhaps!" he said.  "Those recruits are raw, I can tell you.  You can be
glad you are a trained soldier.  I could tell it by your walk, even in this dim light.  The
walk always tells."

Zaidos nodded and squatted down near the open door.  Moment by moment his danger was growing.
The sentry turned and sauntered to the end of the block.  Zaidos counted slowly.  Once the
man turned and nodded in a friendly fashion, then resumed his slow pace.  Sixty steps.  He
stood for a moment on the corner, then came back.  "Not long now," he said, and smiled.  Then
he passed in the other direction.  Eighty steps that way.  Zaidos counted.  Again the man returned.
Zaidos could feel his muscles stiffening, as if about to spring.  He cautiously shifted to
a position still nearer the partly open door and measured the opening. He felt heavy and awkward.
He studied the dark opening.  It did indeed look very narrow.  He had squirmed through it without
much trouble, but that was in the densest darkness, and he had taken all the time he needed.
Now if the sentry should turn * * * Well, it would be the end of Zaidos, and a most ignominious
end at that.  He was not a coward, but he had no fancy to find himself against a wall with
a firing squad before him.

Sixty steps and back walked the sentry, and Zaidos, head against the wall, body reclining close
to the open door, seemed to be dozing.  One, two, three steps past him, went the sentry again--

With the quickness of a cat Zaidos ripped off his uniform blouse, thrust it through the door,
stretched his arms over his head, and with a mighty shove of his strong young legs thrust himself
into the opening.

There was a terrific struggle for a moment, a series of agile twists, and Zaidos fell forward
on the stone floor.  Quickly he kicked away his shoes and tumbled down on his pallet.  After
the gray dawn outside the room was very dark.  He heard the sentry outside come running to
the door, push it against its stout chain and stand thinking.  Zaidos laughed to himself. 
The opening, "too small for a fly," had swallowed him; and the unsuspicious fellow outside
was filled with almost superstitious amazement.  He knew that Zaidos could not by any possibility
have reached the corner without making the least sound, and the street was absolutely silent.
Zaidos, scarcely daring to breathe, smiled in the dark.

Then, fatherless and friendless as he was, and thrust by a strange fate of birth into a war
in which he had no part, Zaidos, exhausted by his night's experiences, dropped asleep.  About
him men tired by a long night spent on pallets as hard as the stone flooring tossed and groaned
or sighed wakefully.  Zaidos slept on.

He was sleeping so heavily an hour later that he did not hear two soldiers enter with a slender
young fellow in civilian dress.  He never stirred as they went from pallet to pallet, scanning
the faces as they passed.  When they reached his side the young man looked down at him with
an expression which might have been taken for startled amazement if anyone had been watching.
He nodded to the officers, and spoke a word of thanks.  "This is my cousin," he said in a low
voice.  "With your permission I will sit here by him until he awakes.  It would be cruel to
rouse him only to tell him of his father's death."

"Yes, you may stay," said the older soldier.  "There can be no objection to that."

They turned and soon the distant door closed behind them.  Then the newcomer did a strange
thing.  He cast a swift glance over the sleeping faces, to assure himself that he was not watched,
and with the light-fingered stealth of the born thief, he slipped his thin hand into Zaidos'
breast pocket.  Withdrawing it, he smiled wickedly at the sight of what he held.  He rose to
his feet, hastily pocketed his find, and for a moment stood looking down at Zaidos.  With a
noiseless laugh he nodded sneeringly at the sleeping boy, picked his way carefully among the
men and left the room.

When Velo Kupenol had sifted sand in the engine of the automobile, he had made his first move
in a dastardly campaign.  Most of his life had been spent surrounded by the ease and luxury
of the Zaidos castle.  He had had horses and automobiles to use; he had had great stretches
of park and woodland to roam through and hunt over.  And best of all, he had had the best teachers
in all Greece.  But these he had neglected and defied at every possible turn.  Velo Kupenol
was lazy, cowardly and deceitful.  That he was not yet a criminal was due to the watchful care
and great forgiveness of the uncle who had befriended him.  In the past few years this forgiveness
had been stretched to its utmost.  Velo himself was not aware of the number of disgraceful
things his uncle had had to face for his sake.  But it would have mattered not at all.  He
did not know the meaning of gratitude.  This boy, who should have been on his knees beside
the death-bed of the truest friend of his life, shedding the tears that are an honor to true
men, had instantly, with his uncle's last breath, bent his quick and wicked brain on the problem
of wresting the Zaidos title and estates from his cousin.  The knowledge that the kindness
and forbearance of the father would be continued on the part of the son never occurred to him.
He would have laughed if it had.  It was all or nothing.  He determined that the cruel chance
of war was on his side.  So he dropped sand in the engine when he had sent the chauffeur on
an errand, and then had hurried to headquarters.  And it happened that while Zaidos sat on
the sidewalk beside the chained door, talking to the friendly sentry, Velo himself was at the
front door of the barracks waiting for it to be opened for visitors.

Fortunately, in telling Velo of his escape from barracks, Zaidos did not go into details, so
Velo did not know of the door through which Zaidos had crept.  He had taken it for granted
that he had slipped unnoticed through the door at which he himself was standing, and as he
waited he momentarily expected his cousin to come hurrying up.  Velo smiled.  He hoped Zaidos
would come.  He wanted to be there when he tried to make his lame excuses for leaving the barracks
in the face of the refusal to give him permission.  Velo knew well that in the troubled times
in which Greece found herself, no excuse would be accepted.  It was desertion; and the fact
of his return would not soften the offense.  There was no place or time for punishment or imprisonment.
Velo shuddered, but smiled evilly.

However, Zaidos did not appear, time passed, and finally the doors opened. During the time I was with the
Germans they treated me with every consideration. Food was scarce, owing to the fact that the
roads were so well shelled by our artillery that their transport could not come up; but they shared their
food with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made
me as comfortable as possible. Being able to speak a little German, I
talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers also published
dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which I am glad to say
I was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER.

December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last
sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged
18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed
in the Times of November 19, 1914:

We are treated very well indeed
here.

We have good beds and fires in the rooms, three good meals a day, and
a French soldier for a servant, and this morning I had a splendid hot
bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a.m. and 9.45 p.m., and lights out at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard
to walk about in. We have a canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything we
want.

Prison fare is very good—new rolls and coffee and fresh butter. Not bad! I had a very decent
guard when I was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man tried to get in to attack
me he threw him off the train. I am afraid I am out of the firing
line until the war ends (worse luck).

I am in no danger of being shot unless I try to bolt, which I shan’t do.
I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me
shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him. The next time I
saw him he had been bandaged up—he was shot through the shoulder—and
he dashed up and shook me by the hand and shouted, “Mein Freund, mein
Freund.”

On November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

One was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress:

You ask about money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’s
food. The officers get 16s. a week and buy their own. Quite sufficient,
as it is cheap.

I have
learnt German fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for the
men, though, I am afraid, tant mal que bien.

One of the officials here used to be a professor, and is very kind
trying to teach us.

Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs. We
have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any public
news of any kind from England; people having been stupid trying to
smuggle letters in cakes and things, and it only makes trouble for
everyone.

A Captain writes:

For dinner at 1 p.m. we are given soup, meat and vegetables.... Supper
takes place at 7 o’clock and consists of tea, sausages or meat and potatoes....
We receive £5 a month as pay, of which 1s.

6d. is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything
we want, ... so there is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps
those small 7d. editions of novels.

An English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich:

I must tell you I had permission to visit a wounded English officer,
a cousin, and I think it would reassure many people at home to know
how warmly he speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him
now for five months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.—(Times,
March 17, 1915.)

Here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J. E. P.
Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to the
Royal Flying Corps:

I met one of the pilots of the German machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight.

I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he had to land
quite close to where I landed. He had a bullet through his radiator
and petrol tank, but neither he nor his observer was touched.

I met two German officers that knew several people that I knew, and they were most awfully kind to me.
They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and
I was treated like an honoured guest.

I then came by train the next day to Mainz, where I was confined
in a room by myself for two days.

I have now been moved into a general room with eight other English officers,
where we sleep and eat. We are treated very well, and play hockey and tennis
in the prison yard.—(News of the World, February 27, 1916.)

Miss Colenso gives the following account, which appeared in the Daily
News of June 28, 1918:

A minister friend of mine told me the story of a young
Scottish boy of his acquaintance, now a military prisoner in Germany—I
forget for the moment in which camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling
of his mother’s serious illness and the doctor’s verdict that she
could only live a few weeks. The German Commandant, finding the boy
in great distress, asked him what was the matter, and on learning the
cause of his grief, said: “Would you like to go home to your mother?” The
boy sprang up, exclaiming indignantly, “How can you mock me when you
know it is impossible?” “But you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.
“I will pay your return fare on condition that you give me your word
of honour to come back here.” The boy went home to Scotland and remained
by his mother’s side for about three weeks till her death, when, true
to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of “Under the Clock” considers that “well-attested” stories
of this kind should be given publicity. It is even more necessary
to examine the “attestation” of the other kinds of stories, for all the
bias is against the enemy, and demand is apt to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a United States Official.

The American
Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November 16, 1914: “On Saturday
afternoon, the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration camp
near Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned. The object
of my visit was to investigate the claim of a French prisoner that he is
an American subject. The result of my observations regarding the welfare
and humane treatment of the prisoners at large was a surprise to
me.... Separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed in wooden
buildings, well built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep upon straw
mattresses in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as I could judge,
are as well or better housed than labourers upon public works in the
United States.

The prisoners are fed three
times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee and bread. Dinner consists of
vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper they are given
bread and coffee.

I was informed that
many of the prisoners have some money, and that they are allowed to
buy whatever else they may wish to eat.

If I may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there
is evidence in support of this statement. The prisoners appeared to
be in good health and cheerful, many of them engaging in games and
other pastimes.”

The diet described must be frightfully monotonous. Feeding has throughout
been one of the German difficulties. “Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners
of war,” wrote an anonymous American journalist (probably in November, 1914);
“the housing and feeding of so great a number must be a tremendous strain
upon resources drained by the necessities of war.” The numbers must now
exceed two million. The Press article referred to [Misc. No. 7 (1915)]
is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness of the
men (they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz which
he visited.

(See, however, the further official reports quoted below at p. 9). But
the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side. “One hears
of battles in which no quarter is granted. There are stories of
one side or the other refusing an armistice to permit the other to
gather its wounded.

Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting the cost. So men must rust in prison camps
until the struggle is over.” The monotony in this case seems to have been varied by fights between
the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that
the others had not done their part in the war.

We need not be contemptuous about that.

The monotony of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce the maximum degree
of mutual friction. There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner of war.
To be forced to remain, day and night, for months and years in idleness,
with a crowd of others, not of one’s own choice is, I believe, one
of the psychological factors which make internment (especially to
many civilians) decidedly worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE

AND PACKAGES.

My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints about
the other. Telegram received by American Embassy, London, December 23, 1914,
22nd from Berlin Embassy:

“Foreign Office reports receiving many complaints that money and packages
sent German military and civilian prisoners in enemy countries from
Germany do not reach addresses. Please secure information for Department
to forward German Foreign Office whether money and other postal matter
will be delivered to such prisoners promptly and intact.—BRYAN, Washington.”

There
is no doubt that many letters and parcels have not reached German
prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.)
In spite of this, I have no doubt that the British authorities have done
their best to expedite delivery.

I would suggest that this is probably the case on the other side, too.
We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support
of this view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany
has been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M.P. (Daily Mail,
November 8, 1916, and Reprint):

I did not approach this subject quite “new to the game.” I had already visited
general post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere, and had
seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended for
our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable of being
forwarded for want of skilled packing.

The
sight was enough to make angels weep.

To think that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised in humble homes
to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken cigarettes, and
what not, in order that these should reach son or brother or sweetheart
in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving hands, that in the
first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst, the string came
undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in an inextricable
jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take opportunities
for mean thefts. We have all had experience of that during this war, and
the following cutting from the Daily News of October 5, 1915, may
be given in illustration:

In a letter of thanks to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick
and Scotswood workmen, formed for the purpose of sending comforts
to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:

I am extremely touched by the
extraordinary generosity and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood
workmen.

I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted for this most handsome contribution.
Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid
some of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition.

If there are, alas, not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there
are not likely to be fewer who will steal from their enemies.

Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both sides soon became commendably regular. The care
shown on the German side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate
good deeds even after enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from others. The bad
deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians. In
his book “Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes:

I was very much impressed with the fair and systematic handling of our
parcels, letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived
for me after I had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and
sent back.

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after I had left
was even returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the
pressing need of the German War Loan.—(Daily News, January 25, 1918.)

An
acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke to
me to the same effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become
quite shattered in transit (p.p. 7). The Germans transferred the
contents to a sack, and, as he said, the temptation to pilfer the
sorely-needed foodstuffs must have been great.

My informant also spoke of the very thorough inoculation against disease.

ALTDAMM.

On
December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp at
Altdamm near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp at Stargard
on which he had reported previously.

“It appears to me that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners
of war as humanely as possible in the two camps I visited.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps monotonous, but of good material
and well prepared, sanitary arrangements are good, and the health of the men
is carefully looked after.”

RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to by the
German Government, and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey wrote to Mr. Page
(the American Ambassador in London) complaining that no definite
replies to his questions were forthcoming. “His Majesty’s Government,” he
continues, “have only unofficial information and rumours on the subject
to guide them, which they trust do not accurately represent the facts.”
The “unofficial information and rumours” had, however, attained wide
publicity, and obtained still more later.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints. The reports now
to be cited were made after this date.

[Misc. 11 (1915)]. I propose to give examples of almost all the earlier reports, for it was in the
earlier stages of the war that there was most difficulty everywhere in providing
accommodation for prisoners. We ought not to forget that the earliest
reports on our own camps which the British Government have published
begin with February, 1916.[2]

DŒBERITZ.

On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large camp
with between three and four thousand British prisoners. “So far as I
could ascertain, British soldiers are called upon to do only their
share in fatigue work.... So far as I could ascertain, after inquiry
of a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping of either
incoming or outgoing correspondence.... The camp at Döberitz is in
a healthy location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent character....
They are at least as good as those used by the Germans at present
in the same neighbourhood.

As
was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but there
were no general complaints, except with regard to the German character
of the food—and those were the exact counterparts of complaints made
to me by German prisoners in England.” I have italicised the last
clause as it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat important
one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says:

Until two weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed
together—a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account
of vermin. The races have now been separated. The men all stated that they
had the two blankets and the other requisites provided in the German
rules, and I heard but one complaint about overcrowding.

Most of the English and French receive
clothes from home. All the prisoners who do not, are furnished from the
camp supply; the men stated that this was carried out according to the rules.

No
complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp.

The
food was the source of the few real complaints that could be heard, although
at least half of the men spoken to admitted that it was quite as
good as could possibly be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea
that everything that could reasonably be expected was done for the
men by the authorities in charge.

THREE POOR CAMPS.

Mr. Jackson’s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/d
Saale are the most unfavourable.

They were all small officers’ camps, Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50
British officers. There were a few orderlies at each camp.

The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for
officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used
for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the British.

GŒTTINGEN.

Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.
“The Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done everything possible to make
this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great work. The only complaint
is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course, is not under
the control of the Commandant, as he is limited to an expenditure
of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.

“Everything was in the most beautiful order. There was a very fine
steam laundry and drying room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers,
and the closets, etc., are in a very good condition and scientifically
built. There is running water and electricity in the camp. A French
barrister of Arras, named Léon Paillet, who was working with the
French Red Cross and who, for some reason or other, has been made
a prisoner, has done marvellous work in organising libraries, etc.

“I
am pleased to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen have,
from the first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor Stange
has done much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y.M.C.A. building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A. C. Harte,
who for a number of years has been working with the Y.M.C.A. in India, will
be a great help to the men in the camp.

“At the opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr.
Harte, and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered in
English and French by prisoners.

These were followed by short speeches by French, English, and Belgian
prisoners. Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing
society, followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.”

Dr.
Ohnesorg reported further on April 22.

At
that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British.
He warmly commends the steam laundry, the steam disinfecting plant,
and the hospital. “A spirit of contentment pervaded the camp.

The British prisoners
were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable soup,
which was very palatable and, I should say, nourishing.... The citizens
of Göttingen have taken a great interest in the camp, and some of
them, notably Professor Stange, of the University, have given a great
deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners and the formation of
classes for study amongst them.”

GERMAN HELP FOR PRISONERS.

The interest taken by
prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of war is little recognised
in this country. The Berlin Committee (of which more will be said later)
has received considerable support.

At the end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held
at the house of Prince Lichnowsky, former Ambassador in London, who returned
specially from the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many notable men and women were present,
and that at the meeting a collection of 8,000 marks (about £400) was
made.

COLOGNE.

Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals in which
wounded British prisoners are lying. He reports as follows:

These institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered hospitals that little
need be said of their employment or management. They are provided with all the
machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical work on a large scale,
contain all standard and necessary conveniences and fittings, afford
to patients a maximum of protection in the matter of sanitation, quiet
and relief from preventable irritation, and are conducted in a thoroughly
scientific, professional and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed.

I personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them
I conversed privately and without being overheard. With but one exception
no English-speaking British prisoner had any complaint to make,
and a number of the British prisoners eagerly expressed to me their
appreciation for the care and attention given them.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21 deaths
have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital No. VI. since the war
began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals is correspondingly
low. The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable
in view of the many grave injuries treated.

In closing I may say
that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients
and that certain French patients with whom I spoke expressed, likewise,
their appreciation for the care and attention given them.  At once they both went under, and Zaidos fought his way out of the strangling
clasp; but Velo seized him by the arm.  They came up, and Zaidos turned on his cousin.

"Don't, don't let me go!" Velo begged with staring eyes.  "I'm getting a cramp!"

"Then let go of me!" cried Zaidos.  "I'll save you if I can, but don't grab me!"

Velo, overcome with terror, tried to obey, but his reason was not as strong as his terror.
Once more he tried to grasp Zaidos.

The boy turned, grabbed him by the throat, and forced him under water.

He struggled furiously for a space, then suddenly went limp.  Zaidos drew him to the surface.
He was unconscious.  He supported the unresisting weight on his shoulder, and as he kept afloat,
he despairingly scanned the horizon.

Bearing down upon them at full speed he saw an English Red Cross ship!

CHAPTER IV

A STRUGGLE IN THE SEA

Hope rose in Zaidos' bosom.  He gave a sigh of relief.  The boat was only a couple of miles
distant, and coming full steam ahead.  Something bumped heavily against Zaidos' shoulder. 
It was a dead soldier.  A gaping water-soaked wound on his head sagged open, and told the story
as plainly as words could do.  He was supported by a life belt carelessly strapped around him.
The body pressed against Zaidos, bumping him gently as it moved in the wash of the sea.

Still holding Velo with his left arm, Zaidos unbuckled the single strap that held the life
belt and the body, released, slipped down into the water and disappeared.  Zaidos, treading
water as hard as he could, next managed to get the belt around Velo and buckled it.  He fastened
it so high that Velo's head was supported well out of the water; and Zaidos let himself down
in the water with a gasp of relief.  He felt that he was good for hours now.  Keeping a hand
on the strap of the belt, he turned on his back and floated.  The water was warm, there was
a hot sun shining, and with the Red Cross ship approaching, Zaidos felt that he was indeed lucky.

He felt no uneasiness about the Red Cross ship changing its direction; the sea about was full
of wreckage and men swimming and clinging to spars and timbers.  It was not as though he and
Velo had been alone there in the sea.  The Red Cross ship had no doubt seen the explosion and
sinking of the transport.  So Zaidos floated easily beside his unconscious companion, occasionally
calling to some hardy swimmer who came near, and expecting soon to see the rescuing vessel
approach. Velo opened his eyes, felt the lap of the waves round his shoulders, and gave a convulsive
leap out of the sea.

"Had a good nap?" asked Zaidos.

Velo groaned.  "I am going to die," he said.

"Not just yet," Zaidos assured him.  "I wish you would have a little more courage," he said
crossly.  "You are in the greatest luck.  The transport is gone, with all her officers and
nearly all of the men.  I don't suppose there are more than six or eight hundred afloat out
of the three thousand on board.  Look over there, Velo.  There is a Red Cross ship coming along.
She will pick us up, and then we will be all right."

Velo looked eagerly and gave a cry of dismay.

"Oh, oh, oh!" he screamed.  "We are lost; we are lost!"  He burst into tears.

Zaidos rolled over and looked.

When you are in the water, as every Boy Scout knows, every object afloat looks mountainous.
A common rowboat looms up like a three master, and Zaidos, looking in the direction of the
Red Cross ship, saw a couple of battleships approaching, while a huge Zeppelin like a great
bird of prey floated overhead.  How many submarines were playing around beneath him, he could
not guess.  One thing was clear.  They were in a position stranger than any story, madder than
any dream.  Floating there, almost exhausted in the sea, they were to be in the center of a
sea fight.  Velo still wept, and Zaidos himself felt a sob of excitement choke his throat.

"We are going to get it from both sides," he remarked to his cousin. "That Red Cross ship is
trying to get out of range until this thing is over."

"What is going to become of us?" cried Velo.

"Don't know!" said Zaidos.  "And I don't so much care.  At least I don't mean to worry.  I've
watched a lot of poor swimmers go down just from exhaustion; and if we are not rescued, why,
we just won't, that's all.  I'll tell you one thing, though," he said with sudden anger, "if
you don't brace up and stop making me listen to your whimpering, I am going to duck you again.
I did it before when you were trying to drown us both and I am perfectly willing to do it again.
You had better brace up!"

Velo was silent, and Zaidos fixed his eyes on the most amazing sight that a Scout ever witnessed.

Suddenly a wild shot ripped across the water, skipped along twenty feet from them, plowed its
way into the sea, then disappeared.

Velo screamed.  Another shot followed so close that the wave from it rocked them.  Zaidos watched
the Zeppelin with fascinated eyes.  It circled round and round, in an effort to get over the
biggest ship.  A shot leaped up at it, and missed.  The Zeppelin rose a little, then returned
to the attack.  Another shot narrowly missed it; but at that instant a bomb dropped like a
plummet.  It was a close miss.  Zaidos could see wood fly as it clipped the prow and exploded
as it reached the sea, doing but little damage.

"Look!  Look!" cried Velo.

Another battleship was coming, and another, until before them five great monsters battled.
The Zeppelin returned to the attack, and Zaidos himself cried, "Look!  Look!" as a swift gleam
of light across the water, on a line with his eyes, betrayed the lightning swift course of
a torpedo.  It struck the ship, and at the same moment the Zeppelin dropped an accurate bomb.
There was a terrific explosion as the torpedo struck amidships, a spurt of flame as the bomb
scattered its inflammable gases over the decks, and fire burst out everywhere. Another torpedo
tore into the ship.  Zaidos' eyes bulged as he watched, the monster ship flaming and roaring
with repeated explosions, her own guns valiantly firing to the last.  As she plunged nose-first
into the sea, the boys could see the crew, like ants, pouring, leaping over the side, only
to go down in the vast whirlpool made by the sinking vessel.

The Zeppelin now soared skyward, made a wide circle that took it almost out of sight, and returned
to attack another ship.  Then a strange thing happened.  The upleaping shot from the battleship
crossed the bomb from the Zeppelin in mid-air, and as the bomb exploded on the deck of the
cruiser, the shell from her aeroplane gun hit the delicate body of the airship and tore through
it.  As the Zeppelin came whirling down, turning over and over in the air, Zaidos could see
the crew spilling out like little black pills out of a torn box.  That they were men, human
beings whirling to a dreadful death, did not occur to him. He had lost all sense of human values
in the terrible pageant before him.

It seemed like a picture show, only with the vivid colors of reality and the deafening noise
of exploding shells.  Once they felt the submarine pass under them, so close that it made an
eddy that pulled them toward the combating ships.  When it came up to release its dart, the
boys were too intent on keeping themselves enough out of the sea wash to breathe, to see whether
the torpedo struck or not.  The excitement grew in intensity.  Gradually the group of fighting
ships drew nearer the swimmers.  They were not more than half a mile away. Another great hulk
went down.  The Zeppelin, with broken wings wide spread, floated on the sea.  They could scarcely
see it except when a wave made by a falling shell lifted some of its delicate framework.

"There goes another ship!" exclaimed Zaidos.  "I wish I could tell what they are.  I can't
see any flags or emblems from here."

"I don't care what becomes of them," Velo said irritably.  "I'm water-soaked.  I feel queer.
I'll never get out of this."

"Oh, brace up!" cried Zaidos, speaking in English.  He reflected that Velo could not understand
a word of the language, and proceeded to give vent to his feelings in a tongue that he had
found extremely expressive in times of need.  He glared at the drooping boy, while the guns
continued to thunder.

"You make me sick!  You make me tired!" he exploded.  "Great Scott, you are the worst baby
I ever saw!  I wish to goodness you were wherever you want to be, wrapped up in cotton batting,
I suppose, and tied with pink string, and laid on a shelf in a safety deposit vault.  You are
a regular jelly fish!  I wish I had some fellow along who had a real spine!  I--" he paused
for breath.

"I don't know what you are saying," complained Velo.

"It doesn't matter," said Zaidos in Greek.  "It was nothing of consequence.  I think I told
you once or twice before just about what I thought about things.  If you feel better to whimper
around all the time and complain about things, why, so ahead!  I suppose we will drown.  I'm
getting pretty tired myself, but I mean to hang on as long as I can.

"If this fight ends before nightfall, that Red Cross ship is sure to come back and pick up
all they can, and you can see for yourself just the position it is in now.  It can't get to
the battleships without coming past us.  So we have a good chance.  I've been in the water
longer than this without much damage.  But I wish you could manage to keep yourself together,
Velo.  I'm sure we will come out all right. I'm not going to die now, before I have a chance
to do something worth while."  He shook the water from his face.

"Well, I believe they are going to quit," he said.  "I wonder how many fellows have seen anything
like this.  Three dreadnaughts and a Zeppelin sunk and wrecked, and I don't know which is which
or who is who.  It doesn't much matter to us, however.  However long or short I live, I'll
never forget it.  Never!  Just think of it, Velo; three ships of the line, and a flyer."  He
turned to the opposite direction, scanning the sea with keen eyes.

"Yes, sure enough, here comes the Red Cross!  The fight is over.  She is going to pass us.
That's pretty fine, isn't it, Velo?  Don't that make you feel warm all over?"

"She may not stop," said Velo gloomily.

"A Red Cross ship pass all this bunch swimming around here without stopping to pick them up?
You are crazy!"

"There are not so very many," insisted Velo.

"They will stop to pick you up if all the rest of us go down before they get here," said Zaidos
patiently.  "You have the life belt, Velo, so don't worry any more than you have to."

A silence followed.  After the wild racket of the guns, it seemed as though the sea itself
whispered.  On and on came the Red Cross ship. It approached so near that they could see that
a couple of boats were being lowered.  They were gasoline launches, and they raced here and
there, pausing every little while to pick up a survivor.  As they approached Zaidos and his
cousin, Velo commenced to scream in a weak voice.  Zaidos sighed, but said nothing.

When the nearest launch approached them, Velo thrust him back and left him swimming while he,
with his life belt, was lifted over the side. But a sailor had Zaidos by the shoulder.  It
was well, for the boy was at the point of exhaustion, and as he felt himself drawn into the
boat, he found a sudden darkness settle over everything, and he sank back unconscious into
the arms of a doctor.

When he opened his eyes, he was in the clean, airy, floating hospital. It took a little thought
for Zaidos to recollect where he was.  When he did so, he made an effort to arise.  To his
great surprise, he could not move.  He threw back the covers.  His leg was in splints.  He
stared at it with surprise.

A nurse came up.  "How did that happen?" he demanded.  "What ails my leg anyhow?"

"You ought to know," she smiled.  "We expect you to tell us.  Your leg is broken below the
knee.  Just the small bone, you know.  Do you mean to say you did not know it?"

"I should say not!" said Zaidos.  "You are sure it is broken?  It hurts a lot, but I don't
see how it could be broken without my knowing it."

"Yes, it is certainly broken," the nurse repeated.

"Oh, you are talking English, aren't you?" cried Zaidos with delight.

"Why, yes.  This is an English Red Cross ship," replied the nurse. "You are English, are you
not?  Or American?"

Zaidos shook his head.  "No, I'm a Greek," he explained.  "But I've been in America at school
since I was a little chap, and I have had an English room-mate for three years."

"That's it, then," said the nurse.  "You must not talk now, however. You must drink this and
sleep if you can.  There are a lot of badly hurt men here.  You are all right, but pretty well
water-soaked and tired out.  Try to sleep."

She started on, but Zaidos put out his hand and detained her.

"Just a moment, please," he said, smiling at her in his sunny way.  "Is there a fellow here
called Velo Kupenol?  Tall fellow, thin, and looks a little like me perhaps?"

"Perhaps not again," said the nurse, frowning a little.  "Yes, your friend is here.  He does
not seem to have anything the matter with him, yet he acts like a very sick boy."

"Seems to enjoy poor health?" asked Zaidos, smiling.  "Well, I myself can't really blame him.
You don't know how very wet we felt!  I feel as though I could lie here a week and enjoy these
dry sheets."

"You will be very likely to do so whether you enjoy it or not," said the nurse.  "Legs do not
mend in a day.  When your friend thinks he is strong enough, I will suggest his coming to visit
you."

She passed on, and Zaidos lay staring at the wooden ceiling so near his head.

Round and round and round goes the wheel of fate, thought Zaidos.

He wondered what the next turn would be, and where it would carry him. He drank from the cup
the nurse had given him, and presently dozed off, although his leg pained too much to allow
him to get a sound sleep.

He was aroused later by voices near him, and recognized the sound of his cousin's voice.  Velo
was talking in a rapid, low tone to one of the doctors.

"Looks like a nice boy," said the doctor in Greek.

"Yes, he is," said Velo.  "But if he is my cousin, I must say he is one of the most stubborn
fellows I have ever known."

"Is that so?" thought Zaidos, keeping his eyes shut tight.  He thought there would be no more
talk about him, but the doctor went on, "He doesn't look it."

"No," said Velo, "but he is.  I thought I would never be able to rescue him from that sinking
transport.  He went sort of crazy, he was so afraid, and when the order came to jump, he clung
to the rail, and refused to move.  I had to twist his hands away, and jump with him."

"Well, I do declare!" thought Zaidos.  He decided that he had better find out just what sort
of a fellow he was supposed to be anyhow.

Velo went on, "When I got him into the water, I had to take him over my shoulder, and swim
for dear life to get away from the boat before she went down.  We just made it, and at that
he clung to me with such a grip that I thought I would have to let go and leave him to his fate."

"Queer how they hang on to one in the water," said the doctor.  "It seems strange he does not
swim."

"Oh, he swims a little," said Velo.  "He thinks he swims well, but it does not amount to much.
I got hold of a life belt and buckled it around him, and kept his courage up as well as I could.
The fight out there nearly finished him."

"I don't know as I blame him," said the doctor.  "It must have been a pretty stiff experience,
especially when a shot came your way occasionally."

"Yes, it was exciting," Velo agreed.  He spoke with the ease of a man accustomed to worse things.
Zaidos wondered how the doctor ever believed it all.

"Well," he said, "I'll have to go on.  You can congratulate yourself, young man, on having
the courage and patience to stick it out and save the lad.  It is a great credit to you and
I'm proud to know you."  And he turned and walked softly away between the white bunks.

Velo remained standing near Zaidos.  Presently he came over and looked down at his cousin.
Zaidos opened one eye and looked up.  The other he kept tightly closed.  It gave him a teasing,
guying expression of countenance which he had many times found very irritating at school.

"Dear, dear Velo," he said with a simper, "how can I ever thank you for saving my life?"

CHAPTER V

INTO SERVICE

Zaidos' method of punishing Velo for the yarn he had told the doctor took the form of an exaggerated
gratitude.  Being perfectly independent of praise himself, Zaidos could not understand why
on earth Velo should have taken the trouble to misrepresent things so.  As far as Zaidos could
see, there was nothing to be gained by it.  The incident was past and did not concern the doctor
in any way.  Zaidos, who did not know his cousin at all, had yet to learn that his was one
of the natures that are incapable of any noble effort, yet which feed on praise.  With Velo
everything was personal.  If he passed a beautiful woman driving in the park, he thought instantly,
"Now if that horse should run away, and I should leap out and grasp the animal by the head,
wouldn't that be fine?  I would doubtless be dashed to the pavement a few times, but what of
that?"  He could almost hear the lovely lady, pale and shaken, as she thanked her noble preserver
and pressed into his hand a ring of immense value.  The lovely lady was always a Countess at
least, and frequently a Princess.

Velo imagined drowning accidents, and fires where he dashed the firemen aside, and made thrilling
rescues of other lovely ladies who were seen hanging out of high windows.  Velo himself always
came out unhurt and with his clothes nicely brushed and in order.  Sometimes he imagined a
slight, very slight cut on his forehead, which had to be becomingly bandaged, but that was
always the extent of his injuries.  Velo liked to imagine bandits, too; big, ferocious fellows
whom he outwitted, or choked into insensibility in single combat.  At a moving-picture show,
he always sat in a delicious dream, admiring his own exploits as the pictures flashed on the
screen.

Thus it was perfectly natural and simple for him to take the adventure of the previous day,
and twist it to his own glorification.

To Zaidos this would have been such an impossibility that he simply could not have understood
it at all, even if someone had explained Velo's way of looking at things.

To Zaidos the only possible or natural way to look at things was to do whatever came up for
a fellow to do, and to do it as soon and as well as he possibly could.  Not knowing Velo, he
did not dream that he was in the habit of glorifying himself on every possible occasion.  If
he had, he would have pressed a little harder.  As it was, he drove Velo into a cold fury by
his sweet, humble gratitude.

"Oh, Velo," he would say, "whenever I think how you wrenched my hands from the rail, and forced
me into the water, and swam with me to safety, I don't see how I will ever thank you!"

Then he would get out the square of antiseptic gauze the nurse had given him for a handkerchief
and cry into its folds as loudly as he dared.

Zaidos had to take medicine to keep down fever, so there were two bottles on the tiny table
beside him.  He had to take a dose every hour.  Once he woke up, and took the bottle in his
hand and started to pour it out just as the nurse came past.  She gave a look at the bottle,
smothered a cry, and snatched it from Zaidos' hand.  She was pale.

"How--where--when did you get that?" she stammered.

"What's the matter with it?" asked Zaidos.  "Isn't it my medicine? I've been taking it all
the time, haven't I?"

The nurse had regained her self-control and even smiled.

"Have you been asleep this morning?" she asked, as though the medicine no longer interested her.

"Just woke up," said Zaidos.  "I had a fine nap."

"That's good," said the nurse and walked away, taking the bottle in her hand.

But five minutes later, when she reported to the doctor, her manner was not so calm.

"What do you think?" she cried, closing the door of the tiny laboratory where he was working
with an assistant.  "What can this mean?  This bottle was on young Zaidos' table instead of
the medicine I left there!"

The doctor scanned the label.

"Bichloride of mercury," he said.  "Why, that's queer!"  He pondered. "What do you make of it?"

"I can't make a guess even," said the nurse.  "There is no one out there who is delirious,
and Zaidos could not get up on that broken leg in his sleep, if he wanted to.  If it was not
such a crazy idea, I should say someone had a reason for getting rid of Zaidos, but he is very
popular, and his cousin thinks the world of him."

The incident was mysterious as well as serious.  They discussed it and made guesses which flew
wide of the mark.  The doctor quietly ordered a change of medicine for Zaidos, and removing
the bottles on his table, gave the nurse instructions to give him the doses herself.  She did
so, without rousing any suspicion in Zaidos' open and confident mind, but Velo Kupenol noticed
the change.

He was more attentive to his cousin than ever.

Only in the rare moments when he was alone and secure from observation did he allow himself
to take off the mask of good nature and kindliness, and let those thin features of his twist
into the wicked leer that well fitted them.  He no longer saw himself in the part of hero.
He was too eager to remove from his way the boy who stood between him and all the luxury he
craved.  But his common sense told him that at the present, at least, there was nothing to
be done.  He would have to await further developments.  In the meantime he would gain his cousin's
confidence.  That ought to be easy.  Zaidos was the most friendly fellow he had ever seen.
Velo resolved that if ever he came in for the Zaidos name and title, he would show them just
how haughty and overbearing a young nobleman could be.  But in the meantime, he thought it
better to do as Zaidos commanded and say nothing about the family.  Zaidos had elected to be
known as a common soldier, and he would keep to his word.  Velo realized that he himself could
make no pretentions while Zaidos was about; he would not stand for that.  So Velo acted in
his best and oiliest manner, and waited on the nurse, and urged his services on the doctors,
and wondered why they never acted at ease and friendly with him, as they all did with the laughing
boy on the cot.

When they were sent ashore it dawned on Velo that now they would be separated.  Zaidos would
have to go to a hospital to wait for his leg to heal; but he was well, and would be set at
some duty which would separate him from Zaidos.  That would never do.  He worried over it as
they approached land, and finally took the matter to the doctor.  He put the matter strongly.
He had promised Zaidos' dying father that he would not be separated from the boy.  They were
almost of an age, but he had always been the one to look out for Zaidos, and surely now if
ever was the time to be true to his trust.  He explained the manner of their enlistment, and
reminded the doctor they were both listed among the drowned.

"You see I must remain near him," he urged.  "Just help me find a way."

"The hospitals are all short handed," mused the good-natured physician. "I think they would
be glad to get you.  There is lots of heavy lifting that tells on the nurses, and all that
sort of thing, you know.  It will be two weeks before Zaidos can be discharged.  That bone
is not knitting right.  It was splintered, you see.  I'll do all I can for you, Velo, and I
think it will work out nicely."

So it came about that when the patients on the Red Cross ship were transferred to the land
hospital within the English lines, Velo was there in full force, carrying one end of Zaidos'
stretcher.  Of course it was the light end; Velo saw to that instinctively, but then it was
Velo's attention to just such little details that made life easy for him.

Zaidos soon improved so that he was allowed to hop about on crutches. The second day he used
them, however, a brass pin somehow worked into the arm pad and scratched him badly before he
knew that it was just where his weight would press it into his shoulder.  It was very sore,
and that same night, when he sat carefully on the edge of his narrow bed, waiting for Velo
to come and help him undress, the bed went down and Zaidos was thrown to the floor.  It hurt
his leg again.  Velo picked him up and was so sorry that for once Zaidos felt a twinge of remorse
when he thought of the way he had guyed him.

But the nurse, who had been transferred to the land hospital also, pressed her lips tight together
and thought hard.  Zaidos was almost too unlucky.  She took him under her own special care,
although Velo protested and assured her that she must not burden herself while he was there
to look out for his cousin.

"I don't see why so many things keep happening to you," she said to Zaidos while she dressed
the place on his arm where the brass pin had made a bad sore.

"I am playing in hard luck, at that," said Zaidos, smiling.  "Every time I turn around I seem
to bump myself somehow.  I was on the football team, and had won my letter for running.  Do
you suppose I will ever get to run again?"

"I don't know," said the nurse.  "I don't see why this leg should make much difference.  It
was only one bone, you know, and you could bandage that leg if it felt weak.  But you can't
keep falling off cots and sticking infected pins into you."

"Funny thing about that cot," said Zaidos.  "The bolt that held the spring and headboard together
was gone--completely gone.  I wonder if it ever was in.  Perhaps when they put it together,
they forgot that corner, and it stuck together until I happened to sit down on it just right.
I've known things like that.  I'm glad it didn't go down with some poor fellow who was badly
wounded.  It gave my leg an awful jolt. And it certainly gets me where I got that pin in the
crutch pad.  It must have been in the lining, and just worked out.  I don't believe it will
make a bad sore.  My blood is pretty good.  It's funny, though."

"A lot of queer things happen to you, Zaidos," said the nurse.  "Tell me, have you no other
name?  Are you just Zaidos and nothing else?"

"Oh, yes, I have five or six other names," said Zaidos, smiling.  "But you know in Greece it
is the custom to call the--"

He glanced into the face before him with a queer embarrassed look, and stopped.

"Just so," said the nurse.  "I understand.  You are the head of your house, whatever that is,
and you have very sensibly decided to keep it all to yourself while you are mixed up in this
war.  Well, Zaidos, in England, too, we sometimes call the head of a noble house by his family
name.  For my part, however, I prefer to think of you simply as a particularly nice, agreeable
boy, who has made his illness a very pleasant time for the people who have been near him; and
so I think I will call you something simpler than Zaidos.  Is John one of your five or six names?"

"Nothing so easy as that," said Zaidos, smiling.  "Why, I will tell you what they are."

"I don't want to know," said the nurse.  "I, too, have a name that we will forget for the time,
but you may call me Nurse Helen.  And I have the dearest father in the world whose name is
John; so I will call you John.  Do you mind?"

"I should say not!" said Zaidos.

"You see, John," said Nurse Helen, "every time I say that name I feel closer to my home and
all the dear ones there.  Some day I will tell you about them all."

"I wish you would," said Zaidos.  "I have often wondered how your people could let a dandy
girl like you get into this sort of thing." He wanted to say such a pretty girl, but did not
quite have the courage to do it.  "You know you might even get hurt."

"It's quite likely," said Helen simply.  "One has to accept that chance.  And there is a chance
about everything.  A lot of the people in this war, dreadful as it is, will go home when it
is over, and get run over by London busses, or fall down stairs, or things like that."

"Or slip on banana peels," added Zaidos.  "You are right about it.  I wonder I never thought
of it before."

"Who is Velo Kupenol?" asked Helen.  "Is he really your cousin?"

"My second cousin, to be exact," said Zaidos; "He has lived at our house ever since he was
a boy eight years old.  I don't exactly understand Velo lots of the time."

"I wouldn't think he was too awfully hard to understand," said Helen.

"Well, he is," said Zaidos.  "He has been just nice to me ever since I was hurt, but he has
done some of the queerest things.  And what he told the doctor about what happened the day
we were in the water--Oh well, I can't explain it very well!"

Zaidos was too modest to tell Helen that the account had simply been twisted around to Velo's
advantage.

"Don't try," commented Helen.  "There is one thing I feel as though I ought to tell you.  That
is, that I want you to watch that cousin of yours.  If we are doing him an injustice, we will
find it out just so much sooner.  Otherwise it pays to be on guard.  Just tell me one thing,
John.  If anything happened to you, would there be anything for Velo to gain by your death?"

Zaidos looked uncomfortable.

"Oh, I suppose so," he said.  "Why, yes, to be honest with you, he would gain a lot.  But I
can't--Oh, he wouldn't be such a sneak! Perhaps I had better tell you all about everything,
now you have sort of adopted me."

"Not if you think best not to," said Helen; "but of course I would love to know all about you."

"And I had better tell you," said Zaidos.  "You see, I have no relatives at all except Velo,
and we aren't too sure of him yet, are we?"

He rapidly recounted the happenings of the past from the time the telegram reached him in far
America.  Several times Helen interrupted with a keen question.

When Zaidos finished, she sighed.

"Well, John," she said, "as far as I can see, there is not a thing you can take as a real clue.
But it all looks queer, just the same. Sometimes everything will happen so things look black.
That is why circumstantial evidence is always so dangerous.  But all the same, I worry over you."

"Don't do that," said Zaidos.  "I ought to be old enough to look out for myself."

"What are you going to do when your leg heals?" asked Helen.

"I'm going to join the Red Cross," said Zaidos.

"How perfectly fine!" exclaimed Helen.  "We will be posted together for awhile if you do, because
the field hospitals at the front where I am going are very short handed.  Don't you suppose
we could persuade Velo that his duty lies in some other sphere of action?"

"I don't believe so," said Zaidos.

"No, I know we couldn't," said Helen.  "He has repeatedly told me that he would never leave
you.  Here he comes now.  Let's try it!"

She smiled as Velo approached and drew himself up.  Nurse Helen was undeniably beautiful, even
in her severe uniform.

No, Velo had no intention of deserting his dear cousin.  If Zaidos joined the Red Cross, so
would Velo.  It made no difference to him at all.  If Zaidos was stationed in the trench hospitals
at the front, that was where he would be found.

And two weeks later he actually did find himself there.  It was in one of the lulls between
engagements, and they arrived with no more excitement or danger than might attend any summer trip.

But there they were, actually in the trenches.

CHAPTER VI

A LETTER HOME

Zaidos, who was still on sick list and walked with a cane, was nevertheless put to work, in
order to familiarize him with the position of the trenches.  For two weeks the English had
been expecting an attack, and the inaction was telling on the nerves of the officers.

The men are only kept under fire for four days.  At the end of that time, they are sent back
a few miles in shifts to the nearest village where they find quarters, and rest from the nerve-racking,
soul-shaking clamor of guns and buzz of bullets.  The trenches were wonderful. Zaidos and Velo,
the Red Cross badges on their arms giving them free passage, soon explored every inch until
they were perfectly familiar with them all.  Zaidos drew a sketch of the plan to send to the
fellows in school.

First of all, and nearest the opposing force, is the line of the small trenches for the snipers
or sharp-shooters.  These men, facing certain death in their little shelters, are picked shots,
and keep up a steady, harassing fire at anything showing over the tops of the enemy's trenches
or, failing that, at anything that looks like the crew of a rapid-fire gun.  These, of course,
they guess at from the line of fire as the guns are placed in the first line of trenches in
little pits of their own.  On his map Zaidos marked the positions of the guns with an A.

Behind the snipers are the barbed wire entanglements, a nightmare of tumbled wires piled high
in cruel confusion.  Close behind this are the observation trenches.  There was no firing from
these small trenches; they were simply what the name implied: look-outs.  Leaving these, and
passing down the zig-zag connecting trench, the first line trench was reached.  This was fifty
yards from the wire entanglements, and along here the rapid-fire guns were set.

When Zaidos and Velo made their first visit through the trenches, they were puzzled to see
that the guns were all set at an angle, so that the line of fire intersected, usually just
over the barbed wire entanglements.

Zaidos asked about it.

"We protect our guns in that way," explained the young Lieutenant who accompanied them.  "With
the fire coming at an angle, it is difficult for the enemy to get the exact position of our
guns, and they are unable to follow the line of our fire with their own fire, and so cripple
us.  On the other hand, you notice that all trenches are either battlement shape or zig-zag."

"I wondered why," said Zaidos.

"Well, that is so a shot from the enemy, no matter what the angle, striking in a trench, will
simply go a few feet, and plow into the bank of earth ahead of it.  Formerly, a single shot,
raking the length of a portion of a trench, would cost hundreds of men.  Now it seldom means
a loss of more than six or eight."

It was fifty yards between the entanglements and the first line trench, and in the two hundred
yards between that and the second line trench, there was quite a little underground settlement.

The bomb-proof shelter was a regular cellar with sheets of steel over it, and earth over that.
It was dark, and the dirt walls and floor gave out a damp and mouldy smell.  The men had made
crude provisions for comfort.  Narrow benches were about the walls, a door from some wrecked
building had been brought with much labor, and converted into a table, around which the men
sat and played cards.

But Zaidos was most interested in the First Aid Station.  He felt that much of his time might
be spent here in this strange dug-out.

It was a strange mixture of the latest thing in surgical science and the crudeness of the caveman.

The walls were simply scooped out.  They might have been dug with a gigantic spoon, so rough
they were and so rounding.  The floor had been packed, or trodden hard, and in the middle of
the small space was a rude operating table.  Beside it, however, on enameled, collapsible iron
stands, looking as though they might have been just carried out of some perfectly appointed
hospital, were rows of delicate instruments.

There had been no firing for some time, and the place was empty.  The surgeon and his assistant
sat reading a month-old copy of a London paper.  They scanned the columns eagerly, and laughed
heartily at the jokes.  For London gallantly jests, even in war time.

The lieutenant introduced Zaidos and Velo to the doctors, and explained their presence.

"Well, me lad," said the older man, cordially taking note of Zaidos' sunny smile and fearless
eyes, "I'm thinkin' that we need such as you. We can't hope those fellows over there beyond
will keep still much longer, and we will have the deuce of a time to hold our position, I believe.
Of course we will do it, but it will mean a lot of work for us in here, worse luck!

"You want to familiarize yourself with every turn of the place.  A lost moment may mean a lost
life, perhaps yours, perhaps the man you are trying to help.  You may have to leave the connecting
trench you are running along and take to the top of the ground.  If a shell falls ahead of
you, you will find your path stopped up.  Have you ever been under fire?"

"I don't know just what you would call it," said Zaidos laughingly, and proceeded to tell the
doctor how they happened to be in their present position.

"Well, well, well!" said the doctor.  "You ought to do!  First drowned, and then shot at, and
submarined.  It does seem as though you ought to be able to keep your head, with only a few
simple bullets and gas bombs flying around."

He got to his feet stiffly, for living underground makes men rheumatic, and put down his paper.

"Just pay attention," he said in a crisp, business-like way.  "When you serve wounded men,
remember two things.  Work deliberately, yet with the greatest speed.  Many a man has died
from one little twist given in getting him on his stretcher.  Forget the fight, forget everything
for the time but that the torn body is in your hands.  Do you know anything at all about lifting
a man?"

"I do," said Zaidos.  "I'm a Boy Scout.  Besides, we learned all that at school."

"Good!" said the doctor.  "All you have to do is to remember what you know, when the necessity
of using your information arrives.  When you have your man on the stretcher, get here as soon
as ever you can. Don't wait for anyone; private and General alike must stand aside for the
Red Cross.  Wonder if you could stop a cut artery?"

"Yes, sir," replied Zaidos.

"How?" said the doctor, reaching out his arm.  Zaidos took it and demonstrated the thing and
the doctor gave a grunt of satisfaction.

"When you get your man here, lay him down on one of the benches or on the floor or anywhere
else that you see a place for him.  Don't wait, for we will attend to him after that."

"Yes, sir," said Zaidos.  He foresaw lively times.

"Good morning," said the doctor, sitting down and taking up his precious paper.  The boys went
out, feeling as though they had been dismissed from class.

The large cook house was very close to the First Aid Station, and was equipped with wonderful
field stoves and great kettles and pots.  A number of cooks were in charge, and the boiling
soup smelled good enough to eat!

Three zig-zag trenches led from the cook house and First Aid Station to the second line of
trenches.

Here was a repetition of the first line trench, machine guns and all. Back of it stretched
a line of snipers' trenches, and behind them another barbed wire entanglement.  A tunnel led
under this; several of them in fact, and large enough to permit the passage of a number of
men at the same time.  This was arranged in case the line was pushed back by the advancing enemy.

When Zaidos had arrived at this point in his drawing, his paper gave out, and he was obliged
to write the rest on the back of the sheet.

"You will see, fellows," he wrote, "just how the second trench is laid out by looking at the
first.  Back of the barbed wire and the observation trenches come a lot of connecting trenches
again.  These are not laid out in exactly the same direction as the first group, of course,
but are generally the same.  Instead of a shelter for thirty men, there is a shelter for one
hundred thirty men.  The cook house is much larger, and the First Aid Station is really a sort
of hospital, where the men can be placed until they are taken back to the regular field hospital
which is back of the third trench, four hundred yards away.  This makes the hospital proper
pretty safe.

"The shelter for men in the third position holds three hundred men easily and the hospital
is quite complete.

"You never saw such courageous fellows as these are.  Just think, you chaps, kicking as you
do over there about the feed and the beds and the barracks, what it is like to live underground
against the bare earth!

"The men are never able to undress to sleep.  Once in two weeks each man has a bath, which
he has to take in two minutes.  He is then given a complete set of new underwear.  The men
spend four days in the trenches, almost always under fire night and day.  There has been no
firing since we struck the place, but there is going to be a bad time soon, they say.  And
then the noise is perfectly deafening, they tell me.

"When the men have been four days in the trenches under fire, they are sent back in squads
to the nearest village for four days to rest and get their nerves back in shape.

"I was talking to a jolly young Englishman this morning, and he told me about the place he
stayed in the village.  He has just come back.

"He was quartered in a cellar, where they were perfectly safe from Zeppelin bombs or stray
shells, but it was dark and damp and cold. When he went to sleep at night the rats ran all
over him, and he and all the other fellows had to wrap their coats around their faces to keep
the rats from running over the bare skin.  Some rats, eh?

"A lot of chaps go to pieces with rheumatism, and have to be sent way back to the stationary
hospitals in the cities.

"This Englishman I was talking to was over in France last Christmas, and he told me all about
the time they had.  Seems queer, but I think it is so.  He said almost every fellow in the
outer trench had some sort of a Christmas box with fruit-cake and candles, and 'sweets' as
he calls candies.  There they were, wishing each other a merry Christmas, and shaking hands,
and laughing, and the snipers' guns popping away at the Germans a few feet away from them.
Pretty soon a white flag went up in the enemies' trench, and they ran one up, too, and stuck
up their heads to see what was what.  They didn't know if it was a ruse or not; but there was
a group of Germans sitting on the edge of their trench with their legs down inside ready to
jump; and they were calling 'Merry Christmas, Englishmen!' as jolly as you please.

"Well, that was all our fellows needed, and they got out of their holes and advanced.  But
one of their officers went first, a young fellow who was pretty homesick on account of the
day, and he went up to a big German officer, and they agreed that there should be a truce for
the day, and shook hands on it.  So the men came across and met, and tried to talk to each
other and learned some words from each other.  The Germans had Christmas boxes, too, and they
swapped their funny pink frosted cakes for the English fruit-cake, and gave each other cigarette
cases and knives for souvenirs.

"Then it came dinner time, and they brought their stuff out on the neutral ground, and ate
it together.  Then pretty soon they all went back to their own trenches, and commenced singing
to each other.  The English sang their Christmas carols, old as the hills of England; and the
Germans boomed back their songs in their big, deep voices.  I tell you, fellows, it must have
been queer!  Just before dark, the German lieutenant stood up once more, with his white flag,
and the English officer went to meet him.  The German talked pretty fair English and the men
heard what he said.

"'We have a lot of dead men here to bury,' he explained.  'Will you come and help us?'  So
the English said yes, and they all came out again and helped to bury the fellows they had shot.
Then they all stood together, and the German officer took off his helmet and everybody took
off their caps, and the German officer looked down at the graves, and then up, and he said,
'Hear us, Lieber Gott,' and the fellow said he must have thought his English was not good enough
to pray in; so he said a little prayer in German, but everybody sort of felt as though they
understood it, and of course some did.  And then he put his helmet back, and shook hands very
straight and stiff with our officer, and said, 'Auf wiedersehn,' and turned away.  And everybody
shook hands and went back to their own trenches, and long after dark they kept calling to each
other 'Good-bye!  Good-bye!'

"Well, fellows, that was the end.  Next morning they were peppering away at each other, struggling
like a lot of dogs to get a throat hold. Seems sort of queer, don't you think so?

"I don't believe this could happen now, because they have been fighting so long that they hate
each other now.  I think at first that they were like dogs that someone sicks into a fight.
They do it because they want to be obliging, or because they think they have to mind.  They
would just as soon stop and wag their tails and go to chasing cats or digging for rabbits together.
But they have fought now until the bitterness of it has entered deep.  I can't guess what the
end will be. I don't believe anybody can.

"You had better stir up everybody over there about it, and 'rustle the requisite' as Main always
said.  Everything for field hospital work is badly needed.  Seems to me you could send a few
hundred dollars of stuff over, well as not.  You, Corky, you had better sell that car of yours.
You know the Commandant doesn't half approve of it, and Baxter can give up that motor-boat.
You will drown yourself, Baxter, sure as sure!  And think how much better you would feel to
stay alive, and help a lot of shot-to-bits poor fellows in the bargain.

"Things look so different when you are right on the ground.  What they tell me about some of
the shot wounds that come to the hospitals makes me wonder if I have enough backbone to stand
up under it, when the fighting really commences.  I believe I am getting scared!

"The English fellow told me that after the first shot or two you didn't seem to mind anything;
you just went right ahead, and tended to work as though, as he said, it was a May morning in
an English lane.  I suppose he thought that was about as near Paradise as he could imagine,
but the finest place I can think of is--Oh well, fellows, you know.  I wish I was close enough
to the gang to have you pound me on the back, and to kick that big brute of a Mackilvane for
trying to stuff me under the bed.  I'd like to hear some of Gregg's rag-time, and see Mealy
Jones try to ride the bay horse.

"But this is the end of my paper, and I've got to go back to the hospital.  To-morrow I am
to be put on regular duty.  That's why I am writing you this long letter.  It may be a good
while before I write another; so good-bye, old pals.  I'll come back some day if I live.

Yours,
  ZAIDOS."

CHAPTER VII

A BIT OF ROMANCE

Zaidos sent off his letter and continued his explorations.

He managed to slip away from Velo finally and was greatly relieved. Somehow everything went
along better without Velo tagging at his heels. Zaidos felt ashamed when he tried to analyze
his feelings.  He was at a loss to understand himself.  Even Nurse Helen, who frankly confessed
to Zaidos that she disliked Velo, was obliged to say that there was nothing openly objectionable
about him.  His manners were easy and graceful, and he was quicker to jump to her assistance
than any man on the detail.

He treated Zaidos with a protective fondness that was almost funny.  He watched him, saw that
he went to bed and arose on schedule time, helped dress his scratch, and looked after him generally
like a faithful and devoted nurse.

Yet Nurse Helen pondered.  She never once let him handle one of the dressings which were rapidly
healing the ugly little tear in Zaidos' arm.  Zaidos, escaping from Velo's watchful eye, felt
like a glad little, bad little boy who has run away from school and who refuses to think of
supper time, when he must go home and find that father has the note teacher has sent home by
some other little boy.  He went here and there, his sunny smile and ready kindliness making
friends everywhere.

Wherever he sat down to rest some soldier told him something of interest.  Gunners explained
the watch-like perfection of their guns. Snipers told thrilling tales of long shots.  The cooks
showed him how cleverly the big field stoves came apart, and how they could be assembled at
a moment's notice.

At supper time his new friend, Lieutenant Cunningham, called him.  He had kept a place for
Zaidos beside him.  Velo had been omitted from the group, so he smilingly sat down in another
bend of the trench with his pannikin of stew and cup of coffee, seemingly quite content.  But
black hate raged in his black heart!

Velo was a strange sort.  He was a coward; he dreaded danger and endured hardships badly. 
Yet the thought that harm might come to him never entered his head.  He was deeply superstitious,
and while he could and did change the bottles and place the poison within his cousin's reach,
while he placed the rusty pin in the crutch where it would inflict a wound on Zaidos' body,
while he could plan endlessly to rid himself of his cousin, he would not himself directly aim
the blow or fire the deadly shot.  He rejoiced in the battle that was threatening.  Zaidos
would die, and he wanted the evidence of his own eyes.  Also he wanted the statements of witnesses.
Sometimes when he heard Zaidos' ready laugh, and saw his bright, straightforward look, a flicker
of pity shadowed his dastardly resolve.  Then he remembered the soft living, the ease and luxury
of the house of Zaidos, and remembering that he, as Velo Kupenol, must be all his life nothing
but a dependent on his cousin's bounty, he steeled his wicked heart to its self-appointed task.

But he must change his tactics.  Zaidos as usual was surrounding himself with friends.  Velo
felt that he must be doubly careful.  There must be no more strange, unaccountable accidents
to Zaidos.  When the blow fell it must crush him utterly; until then, he must be left to move
securely.

Velo thought of all this as he sat talking to the soldier beside him and eating the plain fare
of the men in the field.

The talk was all of the coming attack.  Spies had reported a movement of preparation in the
enemy's ranks, and there was a stir of warning in the very air.  To Velo's amazement, no one
seemed worried or anxious. The conversation moved smoothly on, as though the battle was a test
of skill on a chess-board.  Not a man there seemed to regard the coming event in a personal
light.  Even the uncertainty did not distress anyone.  The attack would surely come, but whether
it would come the following night or in a week's time did not seem to matter in the least.
Velo had expected to see in an event like this a lot of men brooding gloomily over the possible
outcome, a dismal time with last farewells, and touching letters written home.  He watched
the young officer beside him.  He had finished his meal and had taken out a pad of paper and
an indelible pencil.  He wrote rapidly, but with a calm and smiling face.  Velo could not imagine
any tragic farewells in that letter.

Velo, still staring at the writer, listened to the conversation along the wall of the trench.
It had at last turned from war to out-door sports.  Velo, who never exercised if he could avoid
it, listened idly. A small, pale boy in a lieutenant's uniform was violently upholding certain
rules while the officer next to Zaidos disputed him smilingly. They argued pleasantly, but
with the most intense earnestness.

"Who is that straw-colored chap?" Velo asked the writer beside him.

"Across?" questioned the scribbler.  "We call him 'Sister Anne.'  You know she was the lady
in Bluebeard's yarn that kept looking out the window.  He is always sticking his head out of
the trenches, to see what he can see.  He's going to get his some day."

"Don't you know his real name?" asked Velo.  "He acts as though he thought he was somebody
of importance."

"Why, when you come down to it, I suppose perhaps he is when he is at home," said the man.
"He's a jolly good sort, though.  He's the Earl of Craycourt."

"And who is the chap beside my cousin?" asked Velo, steadying his voice with difficulty.

"The Prince of Teck's second son," answered the writer.  Velo's curiosity rather disgusted
him.  "Anybody else you would like to know about?"

"Well, who are you?" said Velo, trying to get back.

"Your very humble servant, John Smith," he said.  He slid the pencil down into his puttee and
stood up, bowing.  He did not ask Velo for his name but, closing the pad, strolled off and
slid an arm around the neck of the second son of the Prince of Teck.

Velo for once felt small, but he jotted young John Smith down on his black list for further
reference!  As for the others, he could not get over the fact of their noble birth.  He stood
staring at the group. Zaidos was as usual in the center of things, having the best sort of
a time.  That was Zaidos' luck, thought Velo.  He stared at the bent head of "John Smith,"
bending over the "second son of the Prince of Teck." For a plain "John Smith" he seemed exceedingly
chummy with the young nobleman.  Velo was a natural-born toady.  True worth, real nobility
of mind and soul meant nothing to him.  But he did not lack assurance. After a moment he braced
up and joined the group where Zaidos and Lord Craycourt, who answered willingly to the nickname
"Sister Anne" were swapping school yarns and the others were in gales of laughter.

And at that moment, without warning, in the arm of the trench where Velo had just been sitting,
a great shell dropped and exploded with the noise of pandemonium.  A wave of dirt and splinters
were pushed towards them.  As the air cleared, there was the sound of a feeble moan or two,
then silence.  "John Smith," rather white, stood looking at the fresh mound of earth.

"There were six fellows in there when I came away," he said.  "Get to work, everybody!"

With sabers and pieces of wood and hands, they cleared away the wreckage.  One by one they
came to the pitiful fragments that had been men.  One by one, they laid them reverently aside.
It was only just as they had reached the angle leading to the cook house that they found a
crumpled body that moved slightly as they touched it.

"We can't hurt him much; he's too far gone," said "John Smith."  "Lift him up, and get him
over to the First Aid!"

They kicked a rough way into the cook house, hurried through it and the connecting tunnel to
the First Aid.  There they laid the shattered body on the table, and with the exception of
Zaidos and Velo, all went back to repair the trench.

Never again during his experience with the Red Cross did Zaidos find time to watch the marvelous
skill of a field surgeon.  The soldier, a large and muscular man, was almost in ribbons.  His
flesh was actually tattered, and the dirt had been driven into the wounds.  A leg had been
blown off, and both arms were broken.  Yet he lived.  There was quick and silent work for awhile.
When the doctor finally stood up and looked critically at his finished task lying there bandaged
like a mummy and breathing with the heavy slowness of insensibility, he nodded in satisfaction.

"I only wish all the other poor fellows who come in here had your luck, my boy," he said, nodding
at the insensible patient.  "If I could get you one at a time, it would be an easy matter;
but when you come at us by the dozen, it is a different affair entirely.  He's ready," he added
to Zaidos.  "Get a couple of bearers, and take him to the rear.  Don't lift him yourself. 
There are plenty to do it to-night, and your leg is not too strong yet."

Zaidos called a couple of privates from the trench, and went with them back to the main hospital.
The man on the stretcher lay like dead. Nurse Helen received him.

"I'm coming your way to-morrow, John," she said.  "I have been detailed to the First Aid shelter."

"I'm sorry," said Zaidos.  "It is too near the firing line in there for a woman."

"For a woman perhaps," said Helen with a little smile, "but not for a nurse.  That is a different
thing, John."

"I can't see it," said Zaidos.

As he spoke, another dull roar marked the falling of a second shell.

"I don't see why they start up to-night," said Zaidos.  "I wonder if that did any damage."

"They want to worry us enough so that the men will lose sleep," said a soldier standing near.
"But no one will bother about a few shells. The men will get into the bomb proof shelters until
daylight.  It is a waste of ammunition as it is."

An orderly entered with a written call for a nurse for the First Aid Station.  Nurse Helen
was called to the Head Nurse and in a moment came hurrying back to Zaidos.

"They have sent for me now," she said.  "I suppose some other cases have come in."

"I'll go back with you," offered Zaidos, and together they stumbled along through the rapidly
gathering dusk.

Three more men had been hurt, and when they had finally been sent back to the hospital, it
was almost midnight.

Zaidos found Helen sitting at the opening of the shelter, looking up at the stars.  She made
room for him on the plank.

"I'm thinking hard about home, John," she said.  "One's viewpoint changes so.  I wish I knew
that I have done right to come here and leave my parents and little sister.  I'm just so lonely
and troubled to-night that I have half a mind to tell you my story."

"I wish you would," said Zaidos, "if you feel like telling me.  I told you all about myself,
and it would make me feel sort as if I was really am old friend of yours if you told me things,
too."

"Of course," said Helen.  "I know how you feel.  Well, John, you know, don't you, that we are
certainly in for an attack as soon as it is daylight?  Perhaps before, because the enemy has
searchlights that make it easy for them to bother us in the dark.  I know they are expecting
a big battle because this is a much coveted position. One morning he was visited by one of his flock,
proposing "a concert for prayer on the following Monday, in behalf of those who had fallen back,
that God's Spirit might re-awaken them,"--so observant were the believers as well as their pastor
of declensions.

Among those who were awakened, but never truly converted, he mentions one case. "Jan. 9, 1840.--Met
with the case of one who had been frightened during the late work,
so that her bodily health was injured.

She seems to have no care now about her soul.

It has only filled her mouth with evil-speaking."

That many, who promised fair, drew back and walked no more with Jesus, is
true. Out of about 800 souls who, during the months of the Revival,
conversed with different ministers in apparent anxiety, no wonder surely
if many proved to have been impressed only for a time. President
Edwards considered it likely that, in such cases, the proportion of
real conversions might resemble the proportion of blossoms in spring,
and fruit in autumn.

Nor can anything be more unreasonable than to doubt the truth of
all, because of the deceit of some.

The world itself does not so act in judging of its own.

The world reckons upon the possibility of being mistaken in many cases, and yet does not cease to believe
that there is honesty and truth to be found. One of themselves, a poet of their own, has said with
no less justice than beauty--

"Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell; And though foul
things put on the brows of grace, Yet grace must still look so."

But, above all, we have the authority of the word of God, declaring
that such backslidings are the very tests of the true church: "For
there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved
may be made manifest among you," I Cor. 11:19.

It is not, however, meant that any who had really believed went back to perdition. On the contrary,
it is the creed of every sound evangelical church, that those who do go back to perdition were persons
who never really believed in Jesus. Their eyes may have been opened to see the dread realities of sin and
of the wrath to come; but if they saw not righteousness for their
guilty souls in the Saviour, there is nothing in all Scripture to
make us expect that they will continue awake.

"Awake, them that sleepest, and Christ will give thee light," is the call--inviting
sinners to a point far beyond mere conviction. One who, for a whole year, went
back to folly, said: "'Your sermon on the corruption of the heart
made me despair, and so I gave myself up to my old ways--attending
dances, learning songs," etc. A knowledge of our guilt, and a sense
of danger, will not of themselves keep us from falling; nay, these,
if alone, may (as in the above case) thrust us down the slippery places.
We are truly secure only when our eye is on Jesus, and our hand locked
in his hand.

So that
the history of backslidings, instead of leading us to doubt the reality
of grace in believers, will only be found to teach us two great lessons,
viz. the vast importance of pressing immediate salvation on awakened
souls, and the reasonableness of standing in doubt of all, however
deep their convictions, who have not truly fled to the hope set before them.

There
was another ground of prejudice against the whole work, arising from
the circumstance that the Lord had employed in it young men not long
engaged in the work of the ministry, rather than the fathers in Israel.

But herein it was that sovereign grace shone forth the more conspicuously.
Do such objectors suppose that God ever intends the honor of man
in a work of Revival? Is it not the honor of his own name that He seeks?
Had it been his wish to give the glory to man at all, then indeed
it might have been asked, "Why does He pass by the older pastors, and call
for the inexperienced youth?" But when sovereign grace was coming to bless
a region in the way that would redound most to the glory of the Lord,
can we conceive a wiser plan than to use the sling of David in bringing
down the Philistine

?


Helen lapsed into silence, and sat staring into the night.

"Well, what then?" asked Zaidos, staring at the lovely, sorrowful face beside him.  "Did he die?"

"No," said Helen haltingly.  "We quarreled."

"Quarreled?" echoed Zaidos.  "Quarreled after all that?  I don't see how you could!"

"I don't see now, either," said Helen.  "It was my fault.  I should have made him make up with me."

"What was the fuss about?" asked Zaidos.  He was intensely interested. He had never been so
close to a real love affair before.  Of course he had met a girl at one of the hops; the one
he gave the collar emblem to.  Zaidos couldn't think of her name, but he remembered that he
had been pretty hard hit.  He knew she was a pretty girl; funny he couldn't think of her name!
It occurred to Zaidos that a fellow ought to know a girl's name anyhow if he was crazy over
her.  And he had been quite crazy over her for a whole evening.  Had it bad!  Anyhow, he was
sure she was a blonde.  That was proof that he remembered and suffered!  But Helen was speaking.

"I hate to tell you," she said.  "It seems so trivial now."

"Well, let's hear about it," said Zaidos.  "Perhaps we can get hold of the chap and fix things up."

"Not now," said Helen sadly.  "It is too late.  There always comes a time when it is too late,
John.  Don't forget that.  I have found it out."

She paused again, and Zaidos was afraid she was never going on, but finally she took up her story.

"There is actually nothing to it.  It commenced with the color of a dress I wore.  Tony said
it was the most unbecoming thing I had ever had on.  I had just been visiting a friend in London,
a very advanced girl, and she had been telling me what a mistake it was when one gave up to
the prejudices of a man.  She said do it once and you would do it always.  So when Tony said
quite calmly, 'Do please throw the thing away, or burn it up,' I thought I ought to take a
firm stand.  I said, 'I shall do neither.  This is a perfectly new dress, and I mean to wear
it all summer.'  Tony laughed.  He said, 'Well, I'm blessed if I take any leave until winter
then!'  Of course he was joking, and a girl with the least common sense would have known it;
but I retorted, 'That is an excellent plan!'  He said, 'Why, Helen, you don't mean that, do
you?' and I said I certainly did.  We parted rather stiffly. It was his last evening at home,
and I had put on the frock in honor of it.  He wrote as soon as he reached London, and referred
to the dress again.  He said such trivial things should never be permitted to come between
two people who loved each other.  I returned that it was not trivial, but a matter of principle,
which I should support.  John, it actually parted us.  Actually parted us!  Just think of it!"

"Well, I never heard such bosh!" Zaidos said.  "Why didn't you write and tell him it was perfect
nonsense, and that you were sorry?"

"That is the worst of it," said Helen.  "I did just that, and told him how I loved him, and
that it didn't matter what I wore, so long as he liked it.  Oh, I said everything, John, that
a silly and repentant and loving girl could say, and sent the letter to his quarters in London.
I even put my return address on the envelope."

"What did he say?" said Zaidos.

"Not a word!" said Helen sadly.  "Not one word!  I waited for two weeks, and then he was ordered
to the front.  Still he did not write. I sent him back his ring; it was all I could do, and
left home for awhile.  He came down for a day, but did not come to our house.  Not a very exciting
affair is it, John?"

"Perfect bosh!" declared Zaidos.  "I'll bet anything, anything that he never received your
letter at all, or else he answered and you did not get his letter.  Why didn't you telephone
him?  Letters are no good."

"I asked him to telephone me," said Helen.  "I watched that telephone for three days all the time."

"Didn't you leave it at all?" said Zaidos.

"Only once for an hour," said Helen, "and then I had my own maid sit right beside it.

"That is all there is to my poor little story, John boy.  Tony is somewhere in France, if he
still lives, and I came out here when I could stand it no longer at home.  You see I am not
afraid of death because I don't in the least care to live without Tony."

"Well, it's too bad," said Zaidos.  "Wish I had been there.  I just know he never got your
letter.  I just know it!"

"The story is ended now, at any rate," said Helen.  "If Tony lives he will go back home and
marry some woman who has common sense to appreciate him, and as for me, to the end of my days,
I shall be just Nurse Helen."  She sighed softly, and for a moment looked into the night.

"Do you want to see him?" she asked.  She drew from her uniform a slender chain with a big
gold locket swinging on it.  A crest was on it set with diamonds that flashed in the dim light.
Zaidos looked at the open, handsome face.

"Look like him?" he asked.

"Exactly like him!" she replied.

"Well, when I meet him," promised Zaidos, "I'll tell him a few things!"

Helen smiled.  "You will never meet," she said.  "But if ever anything happens to me, John,
take this and send it to him.  You'll remember the name, won't you?"

"Oh, yes!" said Zaidos, "I'll remember!  But just you take notice, he never got that letter!"

"What a stubborn boy you are!" exclaimed Helen.

"Not stubborn at all," declared Zaidos, looking at the lovely face. "I'm merely a man myself,
if I am young."

CHAPTER VIII

HAPPINESS FOR HELEN

Again Helen laughed.

"All right," said Zaidos.  "Have it all your own way, but I know I am right about this affair.
A fellow with a face like that, engaged to a girl like you, would have acknowledged that letter
just in common politeness if nothing else.  Just to say, 'Thank you, but I don't care to play
with you any more!'  Oh, yes, he would have answered it!"

"Whether he would or not," said Helen, "the breach is too wide to cross now.  It is all over.
I deserved to lose him and I feel no bitterness about it.  My fate is what I deserve."

Zaidos hated to hear her self-reproaches.  "I don't know about that," he defended awkwardly.
"Probably he ought to have come half way.  It looks so to me."

"It is growing light in the east," said Helen.  "We have talked all night about my poor little
affairs.  Let us think of something else now, let us--"

She was interrupted by a shattering boom of artillery.  It seemed to crack the very air.  They
sprang upright and stood for a moment listening.

"The beginning!" said Helen solemnly.

"Well, good-bye," said Zaidos.  "I must see where they want me to go. Where's that doctor?"

The doctor and his assistants as well were there.  They hurried into the dug-out, calm, collected,
business-like.

"Set out the antiseptics, nurse," said the doctor.  "You were on night duty, but I can't let
you go until someone comes to relieve you.  This is very apt to be a big day.  You, Zaidos,
get out in the first line trench, and don't lose your head.  That cousin of yours is hunting
for you.  I sent him forward too.  Nurse, the new troops are here; every trench and shelter
is full of men.  A big day, children, a big day!"

He rubbed his muscular, sensitive hands together.  Another roar shook the ground and balls
of dirt rolled down the walls of the First Aid Station.  They heard the muffled beat-beat of
feet running through the trenches toward the front.

Zaidos, shivering, his teeth chattering with excitement, buckled on his aid kit and bolted
out with a last wave of the hand.  He hurried over through the short trench into the cook house,
and then made his way along the trench toward the front.  A return fire was beginning now,
and high in the sky was seen the first Zeppelin.  Like a great bird of prey it circled high
in air above the lines.  Then from somewhere in the rear an English airship skimmed to meet
it.  The bull-nosed Zeppelin soared and the lighter machine followed, light as a swallow. Zaidos
stared, fascinated.  He could see spurts of smoke from one and then the other.  Another delicate
craft passed overhead and joined the first English ship in pursuit.  Zaidos stumbled on, still
trying to watch the chase.  He was suddenly thrown violently to the ground, and covered with
earth.  Screams of agony came from the trench ahead.  He scrambled to his feet and ran forward.
A dozen men, tumbled together in horrible confusion, lay tossing and shrieking.  Zaidos turned
faint for a moment.  They were the awful flat, senseless cries of hurt animals.  "A-a-a-a-a-a-a!"
they shrilled and some of them tore at their wounds.  Zaidos ran for the nearest man and knelt
beside him.  He tried to turn what was left of his body, and could not.  He glanced around
for help.  Sneaking past toward the rear he saw a familiar figure.  It was Velo Kupenol.  Zaidos
called him sharply, and the stern note of authority made Velo turn.

"Come here quickly!" commanded Zaidos.

"I can't!" panted Velo.  "Zaidos, it makes me sick!  I'm going to the rear for a little while."

Zaidos looked up at the face, white with cowardice.

"Come here!" said Zaidos.  Still kneeling he pointed a small but business looking revolver
at his cousin's heart.  "Come here!" he ordered.

Velo obeyed, the look on his face changing from white terror to black hate.

Zaidos saw the look, and read it with unconcern.

"Come here, Velo!"  He held Velo's shifty eyes.  "You get to work here. If you don't, I shall
shoot you, just as I would shoot a dog.  There is no time to talk.  Get to work!  You hear
what I tell you.  Turn this man!"

Velo shudderingly put himself to the horrid task of lifting the bleeding and torn body.  Zaidos
talked as he worked in a deep, earnest tone that carried to Velo's ears even in the noise of
battle.

"I'm going to be after you every minute, Velo Kupenol!  You won't disgrace me if I can help
it. No one who really knows the whole South could be guilty of such a mistake.
The first difficulty is to determine the limits of the South. The census
classification of States is open to objection. Delaware, Maryland,
and West Virginia are included in the South, and so is Kentucky.

Missouri is excluded, but a place is made for the new State of Oklahoma. As to Delaware and Maryland,
there may be a difference of opinion, though it is difficult to
justify the inclusion of the former.

West Virginia is certainly not Southern, socially, politically, or economically. Kentucky is doubtful,
and it is difficult to see why Missouri should be excluded from any list which includes Kentucky. Oklahoma
is difficult to classify.

But, at any rate the South is a large country, with a great variety
of soil, climate, and population.

As the crow flies, the distance from Richmond to Memphis, in an adjoining State, is greater than from
Richmond to Bangor, Maine. From Richmond to Galveston is farther than from Richmond to Omaha or Duluth.
Atlanta is usually considered to be far down in the South, and yet the distance from Atlanta to Boston
or Minneapolis is less than to El Paso. Again, New Orleans is nearer
to Cincinnati than to Raleigh.

There were, moreover, many racial strains in the South.

The Scotch-Irish of the Piedmont in the Carolinas had, and have yet,
little in common with the French of Louisiana.

The lowlander of South Carolina and the hill men of Arkansas differed in more than economic condition.
Even in the same State, different sections were not in entire accord. In Virginia and the Carolinas, for
example, economic conditions and traditions--and traditions are yet
a power in the South--differed greatly in different sections.

As the years passed, apathy began to disappear in some parts of the
South.

Wiser men recognized that the old had gone never to return. Men began to face the inevitable. Instead
of brooding upon their grievances, they adjusted themselves, more or less successfully, to
the new economic and social order, and by acting in harmony with it found that progress was
not so impossible as they had supposed. White planters found that the
net returns from their farms on which they themselves had labored
were greater than when a larger force of negroes had been employed;
shrewd men began to put their scanty savings together to take advantage
of convenient water power.

Securing the bare necessities of life was no longer a difficult problem for every one. Men began
to find pleasure in activity rather than in mere passivity or obstruction.

Somehow,

somewhere,
sometime, a new hopefulness was born and this new spirit--evidence of new life--became
embodied in "the New South." The expression is said to have been used
first by General Adam Badeau when stationed in South Carolina, but
the New South of which he spoke was not the New South as it is understood
today.

Many others have used the term loosely to signify any change in economic or social conditions which they
had discovered. The first man to use the expression in a way which sent
it vibrating through the whole nation was Henry W. Grady, the gifted
editor of the Atlanta Constitution.

In a speech made in 1886 by invitation of the New England Society of New York City, he took for his theme "the
New South" and delivered an oration which, judged by its effects,
had some of the marks of greatness.

He went on, however, to express the feeling that the outcome had been for the best, and painted a picture
of the new spirit of the South, a trifle enthusiastic perhaps, but
still recognizable.

Today a New South may be said to be everywhere apparent. The Old South
still exists in nooks and corners of many States, it is true: there
are communities, counties, groups of counties, which cling to the old
ideas. In the hearts of thousands of men and women the Old South is
enshrined, and there is no room for the new; but the South as a whole
is a New South, marked by a spirit of hopefulness, a belief in the future, and
a desire to take a fuller part in the life of the nation.

To trace the development of the new spirit and to discuss its manifestations
is the purpose of this book.

CHAPTER II

THE CONFEDERATE SOLDIER TAKES CHARGE

As the year 1877 was beginning, the carpetbag governments in nine of the Southern States had been already
overthrown. In two other States were two sets of officers, one of which represented the great mass
of the whites while the other was based upon negro suffrage and was supported by Federal bayonets. Both sides
seemed determined, and trouble was expected. The Republican contestants
in Florida had already yielded to a decision of the Supreme Court
of the State, but in South Carolina and Louisiana the Republican
claimants held on until the orders to withdraw the troops were given
in April, 1877.

The withdrawal of the troops marked the definite end of Reconstruction.
The Democratic claimants then took undisputed possession of the executive
and legislative departments of these States.

The native whites were again in entire charge of all the States which had seceded. They now had the task of rebuilding
the commonwealths shattered by war and by the aftermath of war. A
new era for the South had dawned, and here properly begins the history
of the New South.

The first and most important problem, as the white South saw it, was the maintenance of white supremacy
which had been gained with so much difficulty.

In only three States--South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana--were there
negro majorities. Obviously, if the whites could be induced or coerced to stand
together, they could continue to control the governments in eight of the
seceding States. The negro population, however, was not distributed
uniformly over any of these States, so that, no matter how great the white
preponderance in the State as a whole, there were counties or other
civil divisions where negroes were in the majority.

This meant that the issue of white supremacy was present in every State,
for the negro majorities in such counties could elect the local officers
and control the local governments.

To attain a political consolidation of the white population all other
issues must be subordinated.

Differences of opinion and judgment must be held in abeyance. No question
upon which white men might seriously disagree must be placed in the party
platform, if any way to avoid such insertion could be found.

If by any chance the majority adopted a course obnoxious to the minority,
the decision must be accepted loyally if not cheerfully, and the
full white vote must be cast.

Objection to a candidate or measure must not be expressed at the ballot
box. Personal ambition must be restrained, and weakness and even unfitness
in a candidate must be overlooked for the sake of white solidarity.

The task of creating a permanently solid South was not easy. The Southerner
had always been an individualist, freely exercising his right to
vote independently, engaging in sharp political contests before 1861,
and even during the War.

The Confederate Congress wrangled impotently while Grant was thundering at the gates of Richmond.
So strong was the memory of past differences, that old party designations
were avoided.

The political organization to which allegiance was demanded was generally
called the Conservative party, and the Republican party was universally
called the Radical party.

The term Conservative was adopted partly as a contrast, partly because the peace party had been so
called during the War, and especially because the name Democrat was obnoxious to so many old Whigs.
It was not until 1906 that the term Conservative was officially dropped
from the title of the dominant party in Alabama.

It is not surprising that men continued to turn for leadership to those who had led
in battle and, to a less extent, to those who had taken part in the civil
government of the Confederacy.

But for the humiliations of Reconstruction, some of these men might have
been discredited, but the bitter experiences of those years had restored
them to popular favor. As the Federal soldier marched out of the public buildings
everywhere, the Confederate soldier marched in. These men had led
in the contest against the scalawags and the carpetbaggers and many
had suffered thereby.

Now they came into their own. In some States the organization of voters was
almost military.

During the first years after the downfall of the Reconstruction governments
the task of consolidating the white South was measurably achieved.

As some one flippantly put the case, there came to be in many sections
"two kinds of people--Democrats and negroes." It was the general feeling on the
part of the whites that to fail to vote was shameful, to scratch
a ticket was a crime, and to attempt to organize the negroes was treason
to one's race.

The "Confederate brigadier" sounded the rallying cry at every election, and a military record came to
be almost a requisite for political preferment. Men's eyes were turned to the past, and on every stump
were recounted again and again the horrors of Reconstruction and
the valiant deeds of the Confederate soldiers.

What a candidate had done in the past in another field seemed more
important even than his actual qualifications for the office to which
he aspired.

A study of the Congressional Record or of lists of state officers proves the
truth of this statement.

In 1882, fourteen of the twenty-two United States Senators from the seceding
States had military records and three had been civil officers of the Confederacy.
Several States had solid delegations of ex-Confederate soldiers in both
houses. When one reads the proceedings of Congress, he finds the
names of Vance and Ransom, Hampton and Butler, Gordon and Wheeler,
Harris and Bate, Cockrell and Vest, Walthall and Colquitt, Morgan
and Gibson, and dozens of other Confederate officers.

The process
of unifying the white South was not universally successful, however.
Here and there were Republican islands in a Democratic or Conservative sea.
The largest and most important exception was the Appalachian South,
divided among eight different States.

It is a large region, to this day thinly populated and lacking in
means of communication with the outside world. Though it has some bustling
cities, thriving towns, and prosperous communities, the Appalachian South
today is predominantly rural. In the 216 counties in this region or its
foothills, there were in 1910 only 43 towns with more than 2500 inhabitants.

This Appalachian region had been settled by emigrants from the lowlands.

Some of them were of the thriftless sort who were forced from the better lands in the East by the inexorable working
of economic law. By far the greater part, however, were of the same
stock as the restless pioneers who poured over the mountains to flood the
Mississippi Valley. Students of the mountain people maintain that so
small an accident as the breaking of a linchpin fixed one family
forever in a mountain cove, while relatives went on to become the
builders of new States in the interior.

Cut off from the world in these mountains, there have been preserved
to this day many of the idioms, folksongs, superstitions, manners,
customs, and habits of mind of Stuart England, as they were brought
over by the early colonists.

The steep farms afforded a scanty living, and though the cattle found luscious
pasturage during the summer, they were half starved during the winter.
If by chance the mountaineers had a surplus of any product, there
was no one to whom they might sell it.

They lived almost without the convenience of coinage as a means of exchange. Naturally in such a
society there was no place for slaves, and to this day negroes are not welcome in many mountain
counties. But though these mountain people have missed contact with the outside world and have been deprived
of the stimulus of new ideas, they seldom give evidence of anything that
can fairly be classed as degeneracy. Ignorance, illiteracy, and suspended
or arrested development the traveler of today will find among them,
and actions which will shock his present-day standards; but these
same actions would hardly have shocked his own father's great-grandfather.

These isolated mountaineers have been aptly called "our contemporary
ancestors."

The same people, it is true, had poured out of their cabins to meet
Ferguson at King's Mountain; they had followed Jackson to New Orleans
and to Florida and they had felt the influence of the wave of nationalism
which swept the country after the War of 1812.

But back to their mountains they had gone, and the great current of
national progress swept by them. The movement toward sectionalism, which
developed after the Missouri Compromise, had left them cold. So the
mountaineers held to the Union.

They did
not volunteer freely for the Confederacy, and they resisted conscription.
How many were enlisted in the Union armies it is difficult to discover,
certainly over 100,000. It is not surprising, therefore, that these
people became Republicans and have so continued in their allegiance.

Another element in the population having great influence in the South--in North Carolina, at least--was
the Society of Friends. It was strong in both the central and the eastern sections. Many, but by
no means all, of the Quakers opposed the Civil War and, after peace
came, opposed the men who had been prominent in the War, that is, the dominant
party. In spite of the social stigma attaching to Republicanism, many
of the Quakers have persisted in their membership in that party to the
present day. In all the seceding States there was a Union element in 1861,
and, while most of the men composing it finally went into the War with zeal,
there were individuals who resisted stoutly During the War they were
abused without stint, but this criticism had only the effect of making
them more stubborn.

They naturally became Republicans after the War and furnished some of the
votes which made Reconstruction possible. With these may be classed the few
Northern men who remained in the South after the downfall of the Reconstruction
governments.

There was another class of people in the South, some of whom had been
rabid secessionists and whose Republicanism had no other foundation
than a desire for the loaves and fishes.

The
salaries attached to some of the Federal offices seemed enormous at that
time and, before the prohibition wave swept the South, there were in
the revenue service thousands of minor appointments for the faithful.
These deputy marshals, "storekeepers and gaugers," and petty postmasters
attempted to keep up a local organization.

The collectors of internal revenue, United States marshals, other officers of
the Federal courts, and the postmasters in the larger towns controlled
these men and therefore the state organizations.

These Federal officials broke the unanimity of the white South, and they were supported by thousands
of negroes.

Some individuals among them were shrewd politicians, but the contest was unequal from the beginning.
On one side was intelligence, backed by loyal followers fiercely
determined to rule.

On the other was a leadership on the whole less intelligent, certainly
more selfish, with followers who were ignorant and susceptible to
cajolery or intimidation.

Before the downfall of the Reconstruction governments, and in the
first few years afterward, there was much intimidation of negroes
who wished to vote.

Threats of loss of employment, eviction from house or plantation, or refusal of credit were frequent. In
many sections such measures were enough, and Democrats were ordinarily chosen at the polls. Where
the negroes were in a larger majority, stronger measures were adopted. Around election time
armed bands of whites would sometimes patrol the roads wearing some
special badge or garment.

Men would gallop past the houses of negroes at night, firing guns or pistols into the air and occasionally
into the roofs of the houses.

Negroes talking politics were occasionally visited and warned--sometimes
with physical violence--to keep silent. On election day determined
men with rifles or shotguns, ostensibly intending to go hunting after
they had voted, gathered around the polls. An occasional random shot
might kick up the dust near an approaching negro.

Men actually or apparently the worse for liquor might stagger around,
seeking an excuse for a fight.  Zaidos had an uncomfortable feeling that he must keep a
watchful eye on Velo.  It was nothing but an instinct, but even so, he felt it, and feeling
it, was ashamed.

So the time wore on.

Bending over a soldier with a gaping, bloody hole in his side, Zaidos turned to the hospital
corps pouch spread open beside him, and felt for a roll of gauze bandage.  One little roll
remained.

"Get back to the hospital and get another outfit of gauze and tape," he ordered Velo.

Velo stood up and straightened his back.  He looked down at Zaidos, then his gaze traveled
to the unconscious soldier.

"What do you bother with him for?" he said heartlessly.  "It's no use. I'm going to quit. 
What's the use of working myself to death?"

"Going to desert?" asked Zaidos coldly.  He was holding the hurt soldier in a position where
he could treat the wound quickly.

"I suppose so," said Velo.  "This isn't my fight!"

"Look here," said Zaidos, "I don't care what you do.  If you desert and are caught at it, and
are shot, it is no affair of mine.  I wash my hands of you.  But for the sake of your own manhood
get me that bandage while I take care of this man.  Don't be such a cad, Velo! Get me the things
I need, and then let's talk this thing out later. But don't do anything to disgrace the family.
After all, you know, if anything happens to me, why, you are the head of the house."

Zaidos glanced suddenly up at his cousin, and surprised in his face a look that once and for
all swept away all the kindly doubts he had cherished.  Velo's countenance was so full of cold
speculation and deadly hatred that Zaidos started.  Then he pulled himself together, and looked
Velo in the eye.

"Get the bandages!" he said coldly and Velo, as though controlled by some superior force, turned
to do as he was told.

As he hurried across the rough, blood-stained field, he too saw pictures in his mind.  He saw
the contrasting fates, either of which he thought might be his.  The obscure life of a poor
relation, dependent on a relative's kindness, and the life of luxury if all that relative had
should come to him.  A better boy could have planned to build up a career for himself, but
Velo could not or would not.  He was like a thief who would rather steal the dollar which he
could go to work and earn honestly.

Velo had become desperate in the last few days.  As he hurried on, he was seized with a sudden
determination to end everything.  He went into the First Aid shelter and secured the bandages
from the supply table and went back, a dreadful resolve taking form as he went.  He found Zaidos
still bending over the wounded soldier.

"Well, you hurried, didn't you?" he said, looking up with a nod of thanks as Velo handed him
the bandages.  He went on rapidly, securing the gaping wound so that they could shift the torn
body to the stretcher.

"It's funny," he said as he worked, "that we don't run across the doctors oftener out here.
Of course they are all at work just as hard as we are, and a good deal harder, poor fellows,
but it does seem as though every time we get hold of a case that is a good deal too hard for
us to tackle, why, then there isn't a soul in sight to help.  I'm so afraid of doing something
that will make somebody heal wrong, or limp or something."

"Be a good way to take revenge on somebody," said Velo.

"Why you--"  Zaidos could not finish.  "How the deuce do you ever think up such stuff?  For
goodness' sake, don't say it to me!  You make me sick!"  He bent over his patient again, and
Velo looked idly about.

At his feet lay a revolver.  He picked it up.  It was loaded.  Idly he tried the trigger. 
It worked.  He looked at Zaidos.  How he hated him! They seemed all alone on that field of
dead and dying.  The tide had swept away and left them there with their work.

There was a sudden red mist over Velo's sight. . . .  Kneeling in the light of the big flashlight,
Zaidos loomed up, a clear, clean cut figure with the velvet blackness of the night behind him.
Velo brushed his hand before his eyes.  Zaidos was putting the last pin in the neat dressing
he had applied to the wound.  There was a thread of hope for the man.  Zaidos smiled.  Velo
knew he would get up--

The revolver sounded like a cannon.  Zaidos, unhurt, got to his feet. He pressed a hand to
his side.  Velo watched him with fascinated eyes. Zaidos looked down.  There was a cut across
the service blouse between his sleeve and body, right under his left arm.

Zaidos stared first at Velo, then at the revolver still in his hand.

"How did that happen?" he demanded in a low, tense voice.

Velo swallowed and cleared his throat.

"The thing went off," he said huskily.

"Well, it came near doing for me," said Zaidos, still staring suspiciously at Velo.  "You let
me have that revolver!  Yon are too funny with things to suit me."

Velo, still pale, smiled a wry, twisted smile.  "I'm sorry," he lied. "I don't see how it happened.
It must be out of order."

"Give it to me!" said Zaidos, "and take the front of this stretcher. I've got to look out for
accidents, it seems.  I never saw anything so careless in my life.  You have just got to be
careful, Velo!  I won't stand for it!  This isn't the first time I've nearly come to harm through
your carelessness, if you want to call it that.  I tell you I won't stand for it!  Mind, I
don't make any accusations; and I don't claim you are to blame for a lot of things that have
happened to me lately, but if things don't stop, why, you are going to be sorry! There won't
be any revolvers going off, and your bed won't go down, and your medicine won't get exchanged
for poison, like it sometimes happens.  I shall just take you out back of the next wire entanglement,
and I will give you a good beating up, Velo.  I remember I used to have to do it when we were
about four years old.  It used to do you a lot of good, and I suppose all these years since
you have had no one to keep you where you belonged.  I won't do this, you understand, unless
you get careless with guns and things again.  You hear, Velo?"

Velo made no reply.

The two boys carefully bearing the stretcher tramped along in silence.

"You hear, Velo?" said Zaidos again.  "Honestly, the more I think of it, the madder I get!"

"You stop your nonsense!" said Velo suddenly over his shoulder.  His voice took on a whine.
"What makes you act so, Zaidos?  I'm your cousin, and I should think you would be ashamed of
the things you say to me, just as if I haven't stuck right beside you every minute, and as
if I had not done everything in the world that I possibly could do to help you.  You don't
treat me well, Zaidos!"

"I do, too," said Zaidos, stung by this injustice.  "I should think I did; but how do you treat
me?"

They reached the entrance to the First Aid Station and gave their unconscious burden into the
hands waiting to receive him.  The doctor scanned the wound.

"Well, boys," he said, "you have saved this man all right."  He turned the bright light on
the still, white face.  "My heavens!" he exclaimed.

"Who is it?" asked the nurse.

Velo looked at the face, and spoke before the doctor could reply.

"I know him," he said.  "His name is John Smith."

The doctor was working rapidly with restoratives.

"John Smith?" he repeated.  "This is the Prince of Teck's oldest son, and his brother was killed
an hour ago.  We must keep this fellow alive," he went on, doggedly.  "First time I met him
he was just an hour old.  He won't go out of this world yet if I can help it!"

The boys went outside and for a moment sat down on the ground to rest.

"What do you suppose made him do that?" said Velo musingly.

"Do what?" asked Zaidos.

"Why," said Velo, "I asked what his name was one night and he said John Smith.  I think that
old doctor is making a mistake."

"What does it matter?" said Zaidos.  "He would make just the same effort to save the plain
John Smiths as he would to save the princes of the world."

"Pooh!" said Velo, sneering.  "I guess not!  Why should he?  He knows a thing or two and you
will find it out some day.  Why, nobody does anything for anybody unless they get paid for
it somehow or other!"

"Oh, say," said Zaidos, getting up and striking one clenched, fist violently into the other,
"I wouldn't have your little bit of a soul for anything on earth!  I wouldn't have your mean,
little bit of a suspicious, ungenerous mind!  I hate to remind a fellow like you of anything
so fine, but how about my father?  What pay, pay, mind you, did he ever get for taking care
of you?  What did he ever get for starting that colony of sick people up on the mountain back
of his hunting lodge, with a doctor right there, and a nurse or two paid by father?  Do you
suppose it made him feel good to see them tottering all over the preserve where he could no
longer shoot, for fear of hitting some of the poor wretches?"

"No," agreed Velo, "he didn't get a thing out of all that, and I always thought that colony
for the sick was the silliest thing I ever heard of.  I'll tell you right now when I get hold
of things--" he caught himself up quickly.  "I mean, of course, when you get hold of things,
if you do as I would do, you will send those people packing back to their slums as fast as
they can go.  As far as his doing for me, why, I'm one of the family and he sort of had to.
It is a duty.  Besides, do you suppose it was very much fun sticking around that house, quiet
as the grave, nothing going on, no one coming to see your father but old, grey-headed men and
women forever fixing up charities?"

"That's all right," said Zaidos.  "Do you know what I am going to do as soon as I get out of
this?  I'm going to cut right back to America and study as hard as I can.  Then as soon as
the war is over, I will come back here and straighten everything up.  I will of course keep
the title.  You can't give that away, and I wouldn't want to.  I'm proud of my name.  It is
an honorable one and it has been kept clean by the men before me; but I mean to give Greece
everything I can turn into money. Then I'll take enough to start me, go back to America again,
and cut out a career for myself.  I'm going to be a doctor and as good a doctor as ever lived
if study will do it.  That's the monument I mean to give my father and my mother."

He gave a jerk of the head toward Velo, who sat upright before him.

"How does that strike you, old top?" he asked and climbed down into the First Aid pit.

Left alone, Velo sat thinking.  Then he rolled over on his face and beat the earth with his
fists.  Once more the films flew along, in the moving picture of his mind.  He saw the wealth
of the Zaidos house--gold, gold! a stream of gold flowing and flowing away from him!  He saw
the bright lights, the dancing, drinking, all the carousels he had so often dreamed of, slipping
out of his grasp.  What possible hope could a fellow like himself have of keeping on the right
side of anyone like Zaidos?  He smiled when he thought what Zaidos would say if he could know
or guess what Velo's life had been.  What would he do if he ever found out how he had treated
Zaidos' long suffering father?  And Velo did not try to deceive himself.  He knew perfectly
well that back there in Saloniki, there were people who would jump at a chance to get even
with him, and who would give Zaidos an account of meanness and wrong-doing that would cause
him to kick Velo out of the house.

Velo began to hate himself for the uncertainty in putting off what to him was a disagreeable
necessity.  Once more he went over the situation.  It seemed as though he had gone over it
a dozen times, a million times.  It all ended at the blank wall which was Zaidos. Zaidos must
be removed.

Now it is a well-known fact that we are what our thoughts make us.  Our minds are like our
houses, our homes.  We do not have to entertain unwelcome guests.  We do not have to invite
them there.  It may be that we feel obliged to treat everyone whom we meet at our games or
in school or at work with common politeness.  No matter how we despise a man, we can't very
well go up to him in the street and say, "Here, I don't like your style," and proceed to knock
him out with a good right-hander.  Naturally it won't do.  But we need not give the bounder
the freedom of our homes.  So with our thoughts.  It is only when we bring them in and grow
intimate with them, and make them part of ourselves that they begin to harm us.

Velo, too evil and too lazy to close the door of his mind on common thoughts and low desires,
had grown more and more like his unworthy guests.  And now instead of kicking the whole mob
into the outer darkness, he lay there, face down, listening to their evil whispers.

"Get rid of Zaidos," they said over and over.  "Get rid of him.  Who will know?  Don't you
hate him?  You ought to!  Just because he is the one who really owns everything, is that any
reason why you should get out and work for an honest living?  You don't want to bother with
an honest living.  You want to live soft and lie easy.  Get rid of Zaidos! Now is your chance!
It is your only chance.  You know how he makes friends everywhere.  He is straight as a string.
He does not lie.  He wouldn't do a mean action.  Fellows like us are afraid of that sort. Get
rid of him.  Now--now!"

So the whispering in Velo's mind went on, and he listened and listened, and presently he sat
up.  On his face was written what is written on every man's face when he gives the keys of
his soul over to Evil.

Zaidos came climbing out.

"Well, the doctor is going to save your friend Smith," he said cheerfully.  "Good work, too!
One of the nicest fellows I ever knew, that Smith.  Too bad about his little brother.  I never
saw two fellows so crazy over each other.  It seems they are the last of the family. Doctor
says this fellow will never be able to fight again, but he will get perfectly well in time.
I don't believe it myself.  I don't believe any of the men wounded go will ever get all over
it, but we can hope so, anyhow.  You see I feel as though I knew this man Smith real well because
he knows a schoolmate of mine, Nickell-Wheelerson his name is.  He was just a plain boy when
we were at school, but he came over with me, and now he's a lord.  Poor old Nick, how he will
hate it!"

Zaidos paused, and stared into the night.

Velo scanned him under lowering brows.

"Get it over soon--soon!" whispered the impatient Evil in his soul.

Velo put a hand on his breast where the papers were hidden.  Zaidos stooped and tightened the
strap of his puttee.  Velo watched him sneeringly.  Zaidos was so maddeningly unconcerned.
Velo wondered if he could be near anyone who hated him as he hated Zaidos and not feel and
fear it.  The urge of Evil became like a heavy hand knocking on his heart.  He almost feared
Zaidos would hear it.  "Now--now--now!" it went.

"Come on, Zaidos," he said, standing up.  "Let's get to work.  I suppose we have an all-night
task before us."

Zaidos yawned.  "I thought so, too," he said; "but it seems they are looking for a bad day
to-morrow and we have been relieved from duty for the night.  A new shift goes into the field
in ten minutes, and we go back to the rear to one of the farm-houses there to rest until ten
to-morrow.  Come on, let's start."

"To-morrow, then," whispered Velo to the Evil in his soul.

CHAPTER X

VICTORY

The boys walked slowly back, picking their way as well as they could in the darkness, occasionally
taking to the zig-zag trenches when the surface paths were too obscure.  Everywhere men were
sleeping, rolled up in their blankets and lying uncomfortably along the bottom of the trenches
or out on the ground under the stars.  The boys did not talk. Zaidos was busy thinking of the
present, with all its tragic incidents, and occasionally a funny happening to lighten the gloom.
He thought of Helen, and wondered how her well-beloved patient was progressing.  He had a sort
of "hunch" as the fellows at school used to say, that Helen was a happy girl, and certainly,
if the man was conscious at all, he was happy, too.

About four hundred yards from the lines they found the farm-house to which they had been sent.
It was practically a ruin.  The roof was gone, excepting over one room where a fire burned
in a big fireplace, and where a great kettle swung on a heavy chain.  This room had had one
side blown out of it, so it was not much better off except in the matter of a rainstorm, than
the other rooms that had four sides but no ceilings.  It was too open to the weather for much
use, however, and the small group of soldiers present were quartered in a cellar close by.

A young sentinel showed Zaidos and Velo the way down, and they rolled up in their blankets
and tried to sleep.  It was a difficult thing to do.  Zaidos found that the steady tramping
and kneeling of the day and evening had made his leg, so recently healed, ache badly.  It throbbed
and he turned and twisted in an effort to find a comfortable position.

Velo's head ached splittingly, and he lay staring into the darkness, keeping company ever with
the evil thoughts in his heart.  He slept finally, however, and did not awake until Zaidos
shook him by the shoulder and told him it was time for breakfast.  The three-sided room with
the fireplace had been turned into a kitchen, and the cooks were busy there when the boys went
over.  The meal tasted good, and although the coffee was thick and muddy, the boys partook
of it eagerly.  It was at least hot and sweet.

Velo gritted his teeth with exasperation as Zaidos strolled out and at once spoke to a soldier
who sat by the door with a couple of letters and papers in his lap.  It was so exactly like
Zaidos to get acquainted without a moment's delay.  He smiled at the soldier, and in reply
the young fellow made a place for him on the bench.

"Sit down, won't you?" he said.  "Mail has come, and I got more than my share."

"Glad you fared well," said Zaidos, taking the offered seat.  "I see you have a paper.  May
I look at it?"

"Certainly!" said the soldier.  "There is nothing in it.  The war news is so censored over
home now that you can't get anything much out of the papers.  I like 'em because I can read
the home advertisements, and see notices of people I know, and watch what's playing at the
theatres. Makes me forget this rotten hole for awhile."

"That's so," agreed Zaidos.  "But just think how crazy all the people at home must be all the
while to hear from you fellows at the front."

"I think they are," agreed the soldier.  "I have a brother in France, too, and father has just
sent me a letter from him.  It's fun to compare experiences.  Want to read it?  You may if
you care to."

"Of course I'd like to!" said Zaidos with his ready friendliness. "There is no one to write
to me anywhere except some schoolmates over in America, and I don't suppose I will hear from
them for months."  He took the closely written sheets of thin paper, and read the letter, appreciating
the spirit in which it was offered him.

"My dear Father," it ran.  "I received your letter and note last night, and Auntie's parcel
the night before.  Thank you both very much for same.  It is good of you to us both, but do
not spend too much money. Hard times are coming on, I imagine.  The kippers were grand.  Six
of us had a great tea on them in the wine cellar of a shattered farm-house where we are for
four nights after four days in the trenches.  Then we go back to the fighting line for another
four days and nights.  This place we are at, in the cellar, is a keep with emergency stores
and loop holes, and is armored.  Twenty-five of us have to keep it at all costs, should the
enemy come over the line, which is perhaps four hundred yards away.  The bally place is overrun
with rats.  They run all over your body and head at night, and I have to sleep with my overcoat
tucked over my head to prevent them touching the bare skin.

"Up at the trenches, I was four days and nights stationed about sixty yards from the Huns doing
sentry on and off day and night the whole time, waiting with bombs and bayonet in case they
attempted to take it, and now on return here have done three more night-guards and then no
more sleep again hardly for four more nights, when we return to the firing line.

"It is a hard life, isn't it?  For in between, one is sent off on all sorts of fatigues, drawing
rations, sand bags, trench boards, etc., etc.

"I must some time see that new Turkey carpet.  The only one I see now is sand bags.  If there
is a big move shortly, which seems more than likely, it may delay our leave as I guess all
the troopers would be wanted in that case, but I am looking forward tremendously to seeing
you all again.

"Must conclude now, dear father.

"Much love to all from your son,
  DICK."

"P. S. We dug up some dead Prussian Guards the other day.  There has been some great fighting
here and may be again.  I don't know what I should do without the candles and matches you send
me.  They keep me going nicely.

"I have just thought perhaps my letter does not seem very cheerful; so I must tell you we have
lots of fun in between the serious parts of the game.  Last rest, I had some great French feeds
(for about one franc) in a town near by.  Got pally with six French gendarmes and hope to see
them again when I have another spell off.

"I guess they could take me around the town if I wanted to see the sights.  Also at all villages
where we stay, I make friends with some of the cottagers, and get lots of coffee and salads
and washing done for me.  I am getting quite a reputation for finding places to obtain a little
meal to vary the Army rations.

"Cigs are best in tins; in boxes they get very damp.  Cheer on!  Good luck to you.

DICK."

Zaidos handed back the letter with a smile.

"Thank you very much," he said.  "That's certainly a fine letter.  It was nice of you to share
it with me."

"That's all right," said the boy.  "Everyone is glad to read every other fellow's letter out
here, whether he knows anything about the people or not.  We get so few letters.  The people
at home send us candles and matches and kippers, as you see from the letter, and they send
lots of cigarettes to my brother.  I don't smoke.  They send us paper and envelopes, too. 
You know all our letters are opened, don't you?  I don't see that it makes much difference.
I've always thought that I could see how I could write a pretty innocent looking letter if
I was a spy.

"They have had a lot of trouble with spies at Verdun, where my brother is.  Why, would you
believe it, the Germans have come right inside the French and English lines in broad daylight
to do their spying!  One bold ruse they worked, just once was to rig up one of their automobiles
to look like our ambulances.  That car carried six Germans, all dressed as English soldiers,
and once inside our lines they went dashing around as aids and orderlies.

"All went well with them, they had seen the whole layout and gone down to the very last trench,
when one of them stumbled and out came a thoughtless 'Mein Gott!' for he thought he had broken
his ankle.  Now of course that would have been a catastrophe indeed, but so was that slip into
the German tongue.  A kindly Providence saw to it that an alert Tommy had heard, and in a trice
those six make-believe English soldiers had been rounded up and were on their way to headquarters.
Next morning there was a sunrise party, for those Germans must be taught it isn't ever healthy
for them inside our lines."

"Indeed they must!" agreed Zaidos heartily.

"We have got to beat them in the end," said the English soldier with the quiet sureness that
has so often helped England to victory.  "But they are sure as sure that they will beat us,
so they keep hammering away and they will keep it up just as long as their men last."

As if in answer to his last statement a shell struck the earth twenty yards away, and exploded.
Another followed, and fell in almost exactly the same place.

"See that?" said the Englishman.  "Two days ago one of our best guns was there where those
shells have fallen.  How did they know just where it was stationed?  We had not fired it. 
And it was ambushed from the airships.  Pretty rotten, work, eh?"

As he spoke, a snapping, long-drawn snarl punctuated by deeper roars told that the rapid-fire
guns and the howitzers were awake along the English lines.  A stir of preparation passed like
a wave over the resting and lounging soldiers.  Two great Zeppelins appeared overhead. They
wheeled closer and closer.  Even at so great a distance, the roar of their engines was terrific.

Zaidos turned and shook hands warmly with the soldier whose letter he had shared.

"Good-bye, and good luck!" he said heartily.  "Hope we will meet some day again."

"Good-bye to you!" cried his new friend.

Zaidos, calling Velo, jumped into the trench and ran along its uneven zigzags, on and on, the
roar of battle sounding ever louder, until he reached the cook house, and turning into the
arm leading to the First Aid Station, he raced into the room and reported to the doctor.

Velo was at his heels.  Once more the evil in Velo's soul was crying to him, shouting to him,
"This is your day--this is your day!"

"I won't forget," commented Velo aloud; and Zaidos said "What?"

They buckled on their aid kits, seeing that they were supplied with everything.  They wore
orderly kits now.  They contained chloroform in a case, a roll of wire gauze, a long rubber
bandage, and a tin which contained vials of hyperdermic solutions.  These were only for the
use of the field surgeons whom they chanced to meet and who frequently had to call on the Red
Cross orderlies and stretcher bearers for supplies. Then in the next compartment was the hypodermic
syringe, and beside it a flask for aromatic spirits of ammonia.  There was a knife and a pair
of surgical scissors.  After having dropped his scissors a dozen times or so, Zaidos had taken
the precaution to tie them to his pouch with a long, fine string.

There was gauze, eight packets of it; four first aid packets complete, six bandages, and two
diagnosis tags and pencils.  When there was time, it was sometimes advisable to tag the wounded
men.  It made them get moved quicker when the patient finally reached the operating room.

A spool of adhesive plaster was perhaps one of the most useful things included, and there were
pins and ligatures, and a small pocket lantern which Zaidos at least had never had occasion to use.

Velo looked carefully at his own kit.  He did not intend to be caught in any carelessness or
neglect of duty.  He had cast aside as unsafe the idea of skipping away.  It was more dangerous
than the falling shells.  He, like many another, had become calloused.  On battlefields men
move with as much of a sense of security as though they were invisible.  It is not so much
that they are not afraid as that they grow into a feeling that the dreadful din, the rattle
and bang and dirt and blood, the anguish of men and horses, the distorted and ghastly deaths,
will pass them by.  The whine of bullets, and the spiteful snarl of exploding shells seems
as much an incident as the tin rainfall and the wooden thunder on the stage.

Zaidos noticed this, and felt it himself.  He saw men go singing along the trenches to their
death, singing love songs and tender little ballads that had to do with flowers and larks and
English lanes in May. And most of all he noticed that the face of every wounded man held a
look of surprise in greater or less degree; of amazement, as though the outraged body said,
"Has this thing come to me?  Impossible!"  The look was on the dead lying sprawled and twisted
in the last silent paralysis of humanity.  And although the dead and dying and wounded lay
like warnings of a coming fate, although men tossed and reared grotesquely, and shattered horses
screamed shrilly in throes of blind agony, the unhurt thousands moved on or lay in their trenches
giving fire for fire, death for death without a quiver of concern.

Out into the worst of it went the boys together, Zaidos filled with the high courage of one
who does his duty whole-heartedly, and is too busy with the task to wonder at his own fate,
Velo with the unconcern of the panther who creeps sure-footedly along the crumbling ledge after
his prey.  With the noise, the sights and confusion of battle, a kind of madness grew in Velo.
The words "To-day, to-day, to-day!" made a sort of song within him.  He had all the time in
the world.  He liked to see Zaidos working, working, tiring himself out.  It didn't really
matter when he put Zaidos out.  He only knew that sooner or later he would do it.  He had become
a criminal.  The evil had wrecked his soul.

The boys worked with furious zeal.  When the final toll of this dreadful war is taken, high
up on the lists of fame, supreme in the immortal and shining roster of the saints, should stand
the names of the men and women of the Red Cross.  The zeal of fighting could not uphold them.
The lust of battle could not inflame their courage.  It was theirs to walk unguarded in the
red rain of death, to kneel where the shells fell thickest, to pass through the line of deadly
fire with their pitiful burdens.

Doing only good, bringing relief and rescue, they, too, have fallen, hundreds of them, victims
of a struggle in which they had no active part.

Zaidos and that dark shadow, Velo, knelt beside a wounded soldier, and strove to save his life,
while a black robed priest knelt beside the conscious man.  He made the responses of his Church
clearly and evenly. He listened while the chaplain commended him to the mercy of God.  With
an even voice he gave his name and sent a last passionately loving message to one he loved.
Then while the boys still doggedly strove to stay his passing, he began to speak.  His voice
changed to the shrill, clear tones of childhood.  He forgot the sonorous Latin of a moment
past.  He looked up and folded his hands.

  "Mary, Mother, meek and mild,
  Hear me, then a little child--"

He went on with the childish prayer.  Velo stood up.  Zaidos, kneeling, shook his head, waited
until the voice trailed into silence, and folded his kit.  They had come too late.  The priest
stood for a moment in prayer.  The boys moved on, but Zaidos looked back.  He was just in time
to see the priest, with that strange look of wonder dawning on his face, sink slowly to his
knees, and droop across the dead man's breast. A bullet was in his heart.

"I wish it would end," cried Zaidos passionately.

Velo smiled.

"Don't do that!" cried Zaidos wildly.  "You are not half tending to your work.  Get busy with
this man here."  He knelt beside a soldier as he spoke, and tried to change his position so
he could tie up a gushing wound.  Zaidos, who had done all the heavy work, was almost exhausted.
His hands trembled a little.  Time had rushed by, or else it had stood perfectly still since
the first shot split the morning stillness.  He had not eaten; he couldn't.  On one of the
trips with the heavy stretcher the doctor had given him something in a glass to take, but he
had put it down for a moment, and Velo had spilled it.  It had not seemed worth while to ask
for more.

The battle roared around them.  The enemy had pressed through the first wire entanglement,
and a terrific hand-to-hand conflict was in progress.  Then men charged with bayonet on gun
in the right hand, a short, keen knife in their teeth, and on their left hands a band set with
spiked steel knuckles.  They leaped into the trenches, struck once with the bayonet, let the
musket go, and continued the fight with knife and knuckles.  The boys seemed to be the center
of a horrible whirlpool or eddy of fighting.

"Give me a bandage!" screamed Zaidos.

Velo, all unconscious of the battle about, stood looking down at Zaidos.  His bloodshot eyes
were narrowed to slits, his lips drawn back in a wolfish snarl.  In his hand was a revolver.
He leaned forward a little.  He spoke, but in the din Zaidos could not hear his words.  He
could read the twisting lips, however.

"I've got the papers!" was what he said.  He took careful, open aim with the revolver, and
before Zaidos could move or spring, he fired straight at Zaidos' face!

Then he stood looking at the fallen boy.  Zaidos lay on his back, arms spread wide, knees partly
bent under him.  Somehow he looked very young.  Velo, once more conscious of the roar of guns,
looked about him.  The battle raged madly.  As if drawn by a magnet, his gaze traveled back
to the face of his victim.  Sure enough, he had killed him.  Zaidos was out of his way forever.
He felt in his blouse where the precious papers were, then, moved by some strange impulse,
he took them out, and held them up before the unseeing eyes of his cousin.

"All here; all here!" he said thickly.  "Now I'm Zaidos; I'm head of the house!"  Still holding
the papers in his hand, he threw the revolver far from him.  It had done its work.  He nodded
to Zaidos. "All here!" he repeated, fingering the pocket.  "I'm--"

Something or someone seemed to strike him a violent blow in the back. It surprised him.  He
turned to see the offender.  There was no one near.  The tide of battle had swept past.  He
looked inquiringly at Zaidos, and idly dropped the papers on the ground, as he put a hand to
his breast.  Suddenly he lost interest in everything but the cause of the blow.  He wondered
what in the world had hit him.  Not a bullet. Surely a bullet did not make you feel so numb
and queer!  He balanced back and forth as though he was walking a tight rope.  Still staring
at Zaidos, and still pressing a hand to his chest, he went slowly, very slowly, to his knees.

"That's strange," he said to Zaidos.  Then without warning, he coughed. It tore, and ripped,
and rent him with mortal agony.  He screamed aloud.  He clutched with both hands at his breast,
screamed, and screamed and screamed, and so went slowly down and down, a million miles into
blackness, and lay without further motion, his head against Zaidos' knee.

CHAPTER XI

DAYS OF WAITING

Inch by inch, step by step, yard after yard, the enemy forced the English back.  They reached
the second line of wire entanglements, where for awhile the battle raged, while Zaidos and
Velo, like other thousands of silent and bloody figures, lay in strange, distorted groups.

At the second entanglement, however, something seemed to happen. Perhaps the enemy's charge
had exhausted them, perhaps because a bulldog courage always fills the British.  The tide turned.
Once more the ground was covered.  The first entanglement was reached and crossed.  The havoc
grew; the rout was turned into a victory.  The Allies had won the day!

They followed the fleeing enemy, stubbornly hammering their rear as they retreated, while a
thin sprinkle of Red Cross aids and doctors and nurses commenced to appear on that dreadful
field.  They moved here and there, clear stars in the dark sky of history.

One of them stopped to bandage a head where a clean line of blood showed a deep furrow in the
side.  When the wound was bandaged, the surgeon administered a dose of medicine, and in a moment
Zaidos opened his eyes, and looked curiously up at the doctor.

"You are all right," said the doctor.  "Nothing but a scratch on the head.  Lie still and wig-wag
the ambulance when it comes along."

He moved rapidly away, and Zaidos obeyed his parting order.  In fact he was not able to move.
Velo's bullet had cut close to the skull and Zaidos had lost much blood.  He was conscious
also of a pain in his broken leg, but could not move to see what caused it.  Finally the aching
grew so intense that it drove him to an upright position, although for a moment things whirled,
and he was forced to close his eyes.  When he looked he saw Velo, the anguish and pallor and
amazement of death written on his face, lying doubled against Zaidos' knee. Carefully he worked
himself free, to find that a bullet had struck his leg while he was unconscious, and had broken
the small bone below the knee.  It was the broken leg, at that.  He straightened himself as
well as he could, and looked at Velo.  He commenced to remember.  It came back bit by bit;
the fight, and Velo's treachery.  Last of all he remembered what Velo had said.  "I have the
papers!"  So it was Velo all the time!  Zaidos could not imagine how Velo had secured them.
He knew when he had lost them that night in the barracks at Saloniki. Velo certainly had not
been there.  His hurt head beat painfully, and it was difficult for him to think.  If Velo
had the papers, however, he must get them.  Velo was dead apparently.  Zaidos knew that look.
The papers were his.  He must take them before someone came and carried him away.  He knew
what Velo's resting place would be, and shuddered. Slowly, painfully, he shifted his position
until he lay close at his cousin's side.  Supporting himself on his elbow, with his free hand
he felt in the blood-stained blouse.  The pockets were empty.  Zaidos felt again.  Then it
seemed as though he could feel a faint heartbeat.  It was so feeble that when Zaidos laid his
hand on the torn breast and waited, he could feel no stir.  He managed to get at his Aid kit,
however, and drop by drop coaxed down a dose of strong restorative.  He pressed a pad of gauze
against the wound, and secured it with adhesive tape.  He could see that the wound came through
from the back, but he did not dare turn him over.  Presently a faint sigh parted the lips,
and Zaidos administered another dose.

Velo lived!

He opened his eyes presently, and looked dully at Zaidos.  Then he recognized him, and a wild
look crossed his face.

"Didn't I kill you?" he asked in a whisper.

"No," said Zaidos.  There seemed to be nothing else to say.

"I tried to," said Velo.

"Don't talk!" said Zaidos.  He didn't know what to say to the boy who had nearly taken his
life in cold blood.  It was murder.  The slow deliberation of the thing chilled him.  He had
read of things like that; of innocent people who injured no one being killed in order that
someone might unjustly enjoy something they possessed.  He had been ready to stand by Velo
and see that he was all right always.  And Velo must have known it.  No matter what he had
said, Velo must have known that!  Yet Velo had tried to kill him.  He had seen the leveled
revolver, and besides, Velo had just told him, as though he didn't in the least mind his knowing.
As a matter of fact, Velo did care; but he was so near the shadowy borderland that lies between
the living and the dead, that there was nothing left for him but the truth.  And because of
that, he continued, "I'm sorry, Zaidos."

But Zaidos would not reply.

"I'm sorry, Zaidos," Velo said again in his thick, queer whisper. "Will you forgive me?"

"No," said Zaidos suddenly.  "No, I won't!  What did I ever do to you that you should try to
take my life?  If I said I forgive you it would be a lie.  Besides, you can't be sorry right
off like that.  As soon as you get well, you will try it again."

"Oh, I am sorry!" said Velo.  "You must forgive me, Zaidos.  I am too badly hurt to get well;
you will not be troubled again.  I know how I am wounded.  So I am going to talk as much as
I can.  I wish you would take the papers.  I stole them from you at the barracks.  I got permission
to go in while you were asleep.  I thought you wouldn't be there, and I wanted to look for
you and say that I couldn't find you, and so call the attention of the officers to your absence.
The night your father died, you know.  But you were there asleep, and I felt in your blouse,
and found the packet.  You had better get it out of my jacket now."

Zaidos unwillingly felt once more through the pocket.  "It is empty," he said.

Velo thought a moment.

"I had it in my hand just now," he said.  "Look on the ground."

The papers lay beside Velo's hand.  Zaidos picked them up, and put them in his pocket.

"I have them," he said gruffly.

"I'm glad of that," said Velo.  "Zaidos, I sold my soul for those papers.  I have been a bad
boy all my life, not because I had bad surroundings, not because I was neglected.  Your father
was as good to me as he could be.  I just thought it was smart to be bad.  I don't think I
hated you because of all your money and your title as much as I did because I knew you were
square.  I knew it as soon as you came into your father's house that night.  I could see it
in your face, and hear it in your voice, and feel it in your hand-shake.  I knew you would
never stand for the sort of life I led, and I hated you for it, Zaidos. And so it went from
bad to worse, until I shot at you.  You must forgive me, Zaidos!"

"I can't," said Zaidos stubbornly.  "What's the use of my saying I do, if I don't?"

"Oh, you must forgive me!" begged the dying boy.  "I am so sorry, so sorry!  You can't see
anyone as sorry as I am and not forgive them. Please, Zaidos!  I can't bear it unless you do!"

"No," said Zaidos again.

Velo did not speak.  When you are asked to forgive a wrong, and you refuse, it turns the punishment
on you.  Velo was silent, but Zaidos commenced to suffer.  He could feel himself growing hard
and cruel. After all, Velo had not succeeded in injuring him much, and Velo himself was dying
fast.  He could see it.  But something kept him silent.  He could not say the words Velo had
begged to hear, and he stared back while Velo looked at him with dumb and suffering eyes.

"Oh, forgive me!" begged Velo with a dry sob that racked him.  "Zaidos, be as good as you can,
but don't be hard!  You can't tell what temptations people have.  It is a terrible thing to
be hard.  Don't do it, Zaidos!  There are so many hard people--hard teachers and hard fathers
who don't know how fellows are tempted and how they suffer.  I am dying, Zaidos, and I tell
you don't be hard.  Forgive me!"

"I do!" said Zaidos quite suddenly.  "I do, Velo!  I mean it!"

Everything changed.  He felt a kindliness and affection for Velo.

"You will get well, Velo, and we'll hit it off like twins."

"It's too late," said Velo, smiling; "too late for anything except to be happy to think you
have forgiven me.  Besides, it is as well for me to go.  I think I'm a bad sort, Zaidos. .
. .  But I'm--so--glad--you--will--forgive me--"

There was a long silence.  Then Velo opened his eyes once more.

"I'm going," he whispered.  "Take my hand--"

Zaidos did so, and for a long, long time did not stir.  The hand in his grew limp, then very
cold.  Zaidos held it loyally but he kept his eyes shut tight, because he could not bear to look.

The Red Cross orderlies did not find Zaidos until after dark.  He was very cold, or else very
hot, he did not know which, but tried to tell them all about it, and only succeeded in mumbling
very fast before he dropped off into unconsciousness.  He could not say farewell to Velo, lying
there under the stars with a noble company about him.  He was silent enough himself until he
reached the big field hospital in the rear.  He did not know Nurse Helen when she bent over
him, but he commenced to talk in a low tone, and he kept on, as though he would never stop.

He told her all about everything, including a green dragon that sat on his leg, and felt heavy.
He told her school jokes, and about the girl who came to the hop and about several million
other things.  Fever raged in him and his voice went down and down until it was as thin  as
a field mouse's squeak.  Nurse Helen grew to look at him gravely and rather sadly and she spent
no time at all with Tony Hazelden, who was almost well enough to get married.  At least he
could sit up an hour every day.  But at last one day there came a change.  Zaidos gave a sigh,
and stopped talking and went to sleep.

The next time he opened his eyes, he looked straight into Nurse Helen's great, lovely, dark
pools of silence and content.  He looked at her a long time; then without speaking, he went
to sleep again.  The next time he woke up, he managed to whisper, "Got a lot to tell you!"

"Let it wait," she whispered back.  "Don't talk at all.  You will get well much sooner."

She was right, and he did, making great jumps toward recovery when he once got started.  The
time came when she let him talk and Zaidos told her all about everything.  He even told her
how hard he had been and how long it had taken him to forgive Velo.

So the days went on smoothly.  Zaidos did not know how many; but one morning there awoke in
him a great longing for his adopted land.  And that happened to be the very morning when he
heard something that might have made him very unhappy, but did not.

The doctor came along.

"What are you going to do with yourself when we discharge you, young man?" he demanded.

"I suppose I'll have to go back on the field," Zaidos replied.

"Don't you want to?" asked the doctor.

"I can't really say I do," said Zaidos regretfully.  "You see I've never had the chance to
fight.  I was lame when they put me at the Hospital Corps work.  At least my broken leg was
tender.  Now it's shot up, and I won't be good for anything else but Red Cross jobs."

"I may as well tell you," said the doctor.  "You will always be a little lame, Zaidos.  Not
much, understand, but enough to bar you from any work here.  I'm sorry, son.  We did our best,
but that shin bone didn't heal right.  You have been given your 'honorable discharge.'"

For a little Zaidos was silent.  No more running; no more jumping.  It was a little hard, but
he thought of the wounds of others, and was ashamed.

"Will I have to walk with a cane, doctor!" he asked.

"Oh, no," said the doctor.  "Your limp will scarcely be noticeable."

"Then I guess I'll get on my job," said Zaidos, unconsciously quoting the boys at school.

"What's that?" asked the doctor.

"Why," said Zaidos, "I planned to go back to New York after all this was over, and study medicine."

"Couldn't do a better thing," said the doctor heartily.  "That's the best thing you could possibly
do.  Nurse Helen has told me something about you, and I will say that I think you have planned
wisely and well.  If you had ties of family in this part of the world, it might be a different
matter.  No one has any right to carve out his destiny without some reference to the people
nearest him.  'Honor thy father and thy mother' holds good to-day as well as it did when the
old patriarchs walked the earth.  And I'm not sure it isn't needed now more than it was then,
when the scheme of life was simpler.  Only now we usually have a few sisters and brothers,
and perhaps an unmarried aunt or two to consider.  But you are all alone, are you not?"

"Yes," said Zaidos.  "I couldn't be more alone without being gone myself.  I have lots of friends
in school and I know a fellow in England; and so it's not so bad."

"No," said the doctor.  "I should call it very good.  And you have already found out, Zaidos,
that sometimes blood relations fail a man.

"I think I will write out a discharge for you, and as soon as you can move you had better get
away, and move toward the first seaport where you can get an American ship.  I will pull all
the wires I can.  You had a pretty bad fever, my boy.  You need a change, and you need it soon.
I'll see what I can do.  In the meantime, lie still and get your strength together.  Things
are frightfully crowded, but a lot of supplies and more nurses have been promised.  Has Nurse
Helen told you any news?"

"No," said Zaidos, "not a thing.  About the hospital, do you mean, doctor?"

"Not exactly," said the doctor, smiling.  "Just some little plans of her own."

"I'll bet Tony Hazelden is in them!" said Zaidos.

The doctor chuckled.  "Well, these girls!  You never can tell," he said.  "She will tell you
herself, I've no doubt."

He got up and straightened his bent back.  "This sort of thing is hard on an old man," he said.
"It is just two weeks since I have been to bed."

"Well, this one feels good to me," said Zaidos.  "I was so surprised when I woke up and found
something smooth and clean under me.  I don't see how the nurses manage to keep things so neat."

"You would not wonder if you could see what they do," said the doctor solemnly.  "I tell you
every woman who goes into the field deserves a place in the Legion of Honor.  She deserves
a crown, and a big pension. She's an angel.  You want to honor all women, all kinds, all your
life, my boy, for the sake of these nurses.  Some day, perhaps, I will come over to your America,
if you would like to see an old derelict, and we will talk and talk, and I will tell you some
stories."

He touched Zaidos' bandaged head gently, nodded farewell and walked on down the line of cots.
Zaidos continued to sleep and eat.  His blood was so clean that his wounds healed almost at
once.  Helen came to his bedside one day with a queer little smile on her face.

"Do you remember, John, what I said when you brought Tony to me?  I told you that just as soon
as he was able to hold my hand, I meant to marry him."

"Did you do it?" asked Zaidos.

"Not yet," said Helen.

"Goodness!" said Zaidos.  "I didn't think Tony was as sick as all that! I would have to be
a good deal worse than he looks to be so sick I couldn't hold your hand!"

"Silly!" said Helen, blushing.  "If you will attend with the gravity the occasion requires,
I will explain things to you.  Perhaps Tony has been able to hold my hand a little; but he
was not strong enough to hold it very hard.  Now, however, he is growing better fast.  On the
other hand, the doctors say I am worn out.  I don't think so myself. I think they are making
it up, the dears, so I can honorably go home with Tony.  But be that as it may, I am going
home.  We are going to be married a week from tomorrow, John, dear, and then in a few days
I will begin to move my dear Tony by slow stages homeward.  And I want you to come with us."

"Me on a honeymoon trip?  Well, I think not!" Zaidos exploded.  "Nay, nay, pretty lady, you
won't get me to chaperone you!"

"Now, John!" cried Helen.  "Oh, I could shake you!  What will I do crossing Europe with a sick
man on a cot, unless someone comes to help me?  I didn't think you were so ungallant!"

Zaidos stared at her.  "That's another way to look at it," he said. "Of course I will go with
you, and glad enough to do it.  I never thought of that, Helen.  Of course you could not go
alone!  Why can't I get up and go talk things over with Tony?  You can't yell that sort of
conversation the whole length of a ward."

"You are to be allowed to get up tomorrow," said Helen, "and, oh, John, please get well fast,
because really I don't see how we can go without you.  No one else can be spared, and I want
to go home.  I want to see my father and mother.  Just think of it, I will have to be married
all alone.  Not one of my own people to give me away, and kiss me, and say, 'God bless you.'
I suppose I am an ungrateful girl.  I ought to be thinking only that I have Tony, and how happy
I am; but you know after all, John, a girl's wedding day is a wonderful time.  It is all so
different to what we had planned.  At home, we would have had the service in our own dear church,
trimmed by all the little girls in the parish.  And everyone would be there.  The church would
not hold them; the churchyard would be full of beaming faces, everybody bobbing and curtsying
and wishing us good luck.  And if I felt that I must shed a few happy tears, my mother's shoulder
would be near."

"Do you have to cry?" asked Zaidos.

"Why, I don't suppose one has to," said Helen musingly, "but generally you do."

"That's awful," said Zaidos dismally, and then repeated, "Awful! However, I don't know the
first thing about girls, and of course you do.  If you must cry on somebody, why, you must;
and you can use me, if you like."

CHAPTER XII

GREATER THINGS

A week flew past.  In the convalescent ward there was the greatest amount of suppressed excitement.
All the soldiers loved Helen, and they showered her with queer, pathetic little gifts, always
the best of their poor store of belongings.  Tony was not to leave his cot.  He would have
to be moved across Europe on a stretcher, but he lay beaming at the men who called good wishes
to him in half a dozen languages.

The wedding morning dawned clear and beautiful.  Every soldier who could hobble was out early
gathering flowers and boughs with which they trimmed the ward.  Helen, who was a hundred yards
away, in the nurses' tent, knew nothing of all this.  An hour before she was to come to meet
Tony, the old doctor, bearing a large package, stood before the tent.

"My dear," he said awkwardly when Helen appeared, "I--er--wanted to do something for you, and
it gave me a good deal of happiness to pretend that you were my own daughter, if you don't
object.  I happen to have a sister in Paris, and I telegraphed her a week ago.  I think I have
heard you say you were size thirty-six.  Well, my dear, this package has just come.  She sent
it in care of a reserve of nurses.  You see--ha--hum--the men will be so pleased.  Now you
put it on if it is fit for you, and wear it, with the love of a grateful old man."  He turned
and abruptly walked away as Helen untied the box, but he could not so escape from those swift
feet.  There was a cry as the girl peered beneath the papers, and then a swift rush toward
him.  So it happened that it was not Zaidos' reluctant and unaccustomed shoulder on which the
happy tears were shed, and it was not to Tony that Helen's last tender girl-kisses were given.

And when the time came for the simple, sad little ceremony in the hospital ward, it was not
a dark clad nurse who walked between the cots on the doctor's arm, but such a vision of loveliness
that the men gasped and Tony turned so pale that the aid beside him reached for the spirits
of ammonia.  For the doctor's present was a wedding dress, just as satiny and lacy and long
as any bride in Mayfair could have worn.

The veil covered her lovely face, and through it her dark eyes lingered tenderly on the eager
white faces that lined her path.  And last they rested on Tony.  Zaidos caught the look, and
it made him feel that he would do most anything to have anyone look at him like that.  It was
a look that a fellow could never bear unless he had lived a clean and honest life.  Zaidos,
seeing this wonderful look that was meant for Tony alone, glanced quickly away and somehow
it was he, down in his innermost heart, who longed for a shoulder to cry on!

In a few short minutes the little ceremony was over, and a musical genius played the wedding
march on a mouth-organ so you'd know it anywhere.  He followed that with God Save the King,
and Tipperary, while Helen, looking more like an angel every minute, walked slowly down the
aisle, shaking hands with the men.  She came at last to one whose arms were both gone.  Without
a moment's hesitation she stooped and pressed a kiss on the upturned brow.  Another moment
with a last smile and wave of her hand, she was gone, leaving the men with their beautiful memory.

Zaidos asked the doctor, who was openly wiping his eyes, to speak with him a moment outside.

"You know my cousin is out there," he said, with a wave of the arm at the field where great
trenches made a resting place for hundreds of unknown men.  "I've been trying to think of something
to do for him, something to remember him by.  I couldn't think of anything.  First I thought
of a monument; and then I thought of tablets in the church at Saloniki.  Then it just happened
to come to me, that why not do something for our field hospital here.  When I get to England
I will arrange to have the money sent you.  Do you approve of that?"

"Of course I do, my boy," said the doctor heartily.  "Of course I approve!  Any help would
be most gratefully accepted.  You know how short we are for everything.  Send anything you
feel like affording. Any little sum you happen to want to give."

"I was wondering about five hundred dollars a month, while the war lasts," said Zaidos musingly.
"Would that make much difference?"

"Five--five hundred American dollars?" screamed the doctor.  "A hundred pounds?  You don't
mean that, do you?  Why, hum--haw--can you afford it?"

"Oh, yes," said Zaidos simply.  "I suppose I can afford almost anything I want.  I had a long
talk with my father the night he died, so I happen to know just what my income is.  And I don't
spend much.  There isn't anything to spend it for.  Of course, when I go back to school, I
mean to put up a new gymnasium.  The one we have is a freak; but that won't break me, either."

"A hundred pounds!" said the doctor.  Delightful visions of endless rolls of bandages, antiseptics,
medicines, nurses, litters, shelter tents, beds, and food appeared before the doctor's delighted
eyes.  "A hundred pounds!" he repeated.  "Zaidos, Zaidos, you will erect a monument to your
cousin finer--" he choked, then turned, and with an arm over Zaidos' shoulder continued: "Well,
Zaidos, it is hard for an Englishman, and an old Englishman at that, to express what he feels;
but, my boy, I am as proud of you as though you were my own son!  Proud of you, Zaidos!  You
are perfectly sure you mean it?"

"Of course," said Zaidos, laughing.  "I think the thing to do is to put money in a bank and
fix it so you yourself can draw it, as needed, at the rate of five hundred a month.  I'll be
busy in school catching up so I won't be able to see to it."

"Wonderful!  Wonderful!" said the doctor.  "I think I will go see the General, Zaidos.  I have
got to tell someone.  I can never keep all this to myself."

He went hurrying off and Zaidos watched him.  Once he bumped into a tree and twice an orderly
called him.  He made no reply.  He was thinking with whirling brain of the lives he would be
able to save.

Then he reached the General's tent, and burst in unceremoniously.  They had been classmates
at college.

"Dick," cried the doctor, "Dick, the most amazing thing has happened!" and with a rush of words
he poured out the fine news.

"Well, bless me, bless me!" cried the General, shoving back from the table where a map of Europe
was spread.  "Now, Henry, I know just how well pleased you are.  Why, what wonderful things
you can do with all that money!  But are you sure the lad will do as he says?"

"You ought to know that lad, Dick!" exploded the doctor.  "He's the finest boy!  He's just
what you would have wanted your boy to be like, if you had loved some girl, and had married
her, and had had a baby, and it had grown up.  He won't disappoint me, rest assured of that!"

And Zaidos didn't.

When, after a long, slow and anxious journey, Helen and Tony and Zaidos finally reached London,
Zaidos left the young married pair in the charge of a full battalion of relatives that had
advanced in close formation as their train drew into the station, and proceeded at once to
the office of a lawyer who was none other than Tony's cousin Jack. It took only a couple of
days to fix the thing all up for the doctor; indeed, it was so tied up with red tape and all
that, that Zaidos was not sure anyone would ever get the money.

Jack was more than nice to Zaidos, and insisted on taking him to his own quarters, where he
rested quietly for several days.  The journey had been harder than Zaidos had realized.  His
leg ached, and it was slow work getting around on crutches.  As soon as Jack could get away,
he suggested that they should go down to Hazelden, and see for themselves if Tony was improving
as much as the family claimed.

They went on the train, for Jack had given up his motor car as his donation to the war fund. "I was
borned and raised on William Jackson's place, jus' twelve miles east of Gilmer. I was growed and had one
child at surrender, and my mother told me I was a woman of my own when
Old Missie sot us free, jus' after surrender, so you can figurate
my age from that.

"My first child was borned the January befo' surrender in June, and I 'members hoeing in the field befo' the
war come on. Massa William raised lots of cotton and corn and tobacco
and most everything we et.

I never worked in the field, 'cept to chase the calves in, till I was most
growed. Massa was good to us.

Course, I never went to school, but Old Missie sent my brother, Alex, two
years after the war, with her own chillen.

"I was married durin' the war and it was at church, with a white preacher.
Old Missie give me the cloth and dye for my weddin' dress and my
mother spun and dyed the cloth, and I made it.

It was homespun but nothin' cheap 'bout it for them days. After the weddin'
massa give us a big dinner and we had a time.

"Massa done all the bossin' his own self. He never whipped me, but Old Missie had to switch me a
little for piddlin' round, 'stead of doin' what she said.

Every Sat'day night we had a candy pullin' and played games, and allus
had plenty of clothes and shoes.

"I seed the soldiers comin' and gwine to the war, and 'members when
Massa William left to go fight for the South.

His boy, Billie, was sixteen, and tended the place while massa's
away.

Massa done say he'd let the niggers go without fightin'.

He didn't think war was right, but he had to go. He 'serts and comes home befo'
the war gits goin' good and the soldiers come after him.

He run off to the bottoms, but they was on hosses and overtook him.

I was there in the room when they brung him back.

One of them says, 'Jackson, we ain't gwine
take you with us now, but we'll fix you so you can't run off till
we git back.' They put red pepper in his eyes and left.

Missie cried.
They come back for him in a day or two and made my father saddle up
Hawk-eye, massa's best hoss. Then they rode away and we never seed
massa 'gain.

One day my brother, Alex, hollers out, 'Oh,
Missie, yonder is the hoss, at the gate, and ain't nobody ridin' him.' Missie
throwed up her hands and says, 'O, Lawdy, my husban' am dead!' She knowed
somehow when he left he wasn't comin' back.

"Old Missie freed us but said we had a home as long as she did. Me
and my husban' stays 'bout a year, but my folks stays till she marries
'gain.

"My brother-in-law, Sam Pitman, tells us how he put one by the Ku
Kluxers.

Him and some niggers was out one night and the Kluxers chases them
on hosses. They run down a narrow road and tied four strands of grapevine
'cross the road, 'bout breast high to a hoss. The Kluxers come gallopin'
down that road and when the hosses hit that grapevine, it throwed
them every which way and broke some their arms.

Sam used to laugh and tell how them Kluxers cussed them niggers.

"Me
and my husban' come to Marshall the year after surrender, and I is
lived here every since.

The days flew past as though on wings.  Helen's younger sister proved to be a second edition
of Helen, even prettier if possible, and Zaidos found himself wondering how he could ever have
given a thought to the blonde damsel whom he had met at the hop so long ago.  Before it came
time to go, Zaidos caught himself regarding Helen in a new light.  He found himself thinking
that she would be a very pleasant person to have in the family!  And that was going a long,
long way for Zaidos!

He had news for Helen.  A letter from the old doctor, with pages of thanks and plans for the
use of the money.  Of course Helen had to hear it all, and afternoons they would all sit on
the terrace together, and talk of the future and make pleasant plans.

Of the past, of the dreadful days on the stained battlefields of the Dardanelles, they spoke
little.  Some day perhaps when time had mellowed the colors, then this group of young people
could talk it over.  Just now the price they had paid for their experiences seemed too great.
It was all too near.  They tried to put it behind them, as all the world will have to do when
at last this war is over, when the last gun calls its death challenge, when all the submarines
rise to the surface of the outraged sea, and the last war Zeppelin settles to earth.  On that
day, a curtain must fall over this terrible middle-act in modern history, to rise again on
new and nobler things.

The group on the terrace, enjoying the warm afternoon sun, often kept the mournful silence
of those who have known all war's horrors, yet they were filled with deepest thankfulness that
they were spared to each other.

The old Earl followed Tony in his invalid chair with adoring eyes. Every day, a dozen women,
ladies of high degree, assembled and sewed or knit for the soldiers.  The great county houses
on either side were given over as convalescent homes.  Fairs, bazaars, teas, meetings filled
the days.  England gave all her time and strength for the soldiers.

When Zaidos found a chance to read the doctor's letter to Helen she was so pleased with it
that she insisted on taking it and reading it to a number of the committees that seemed to
be meeting from morning until night.  The letter gave a clear view of the needs of the Red
Cross, and told so well of the good it was doing.  And to his horror, Zaidos was invited to
address three separate organizations.  Helen refused for him after he had threatened to run
away by night and walk to London.

Nick evidently had trouble with the Allies or the Germans, because he did not come down, and
sent no word.

It came time for Zaidos to leave.  The last night he was there he wrote a bunch of letters.
The first was addressed to school, and commenced:

Fellows:

Well, after all, I'm coming back.  Such a lot of things have happened that there is no use
writing about them at all.  I'll tell you all that it's good for you to hear when I see you.
Only there's no reason for me to stay here now as there is now no one in this country belonging
to me.  My only relative, a cousin about my age, was shot and killed.  And I got nipped a little.
So they don't want me any more, and I'm coming back on the next steamer.  If you can get it,
I want my old room.

I'm visiting some fine people here in the country.  Met 'em on the battlefield.  At least I
met two of them there.  I saw Nick in London, but he's in France now.  You know he's an Earl;
but it doesn't seem to worry him.  He stepped all over me just the same as ever, and was just
as sorry.  He wears a uniform, of course, so I don't know if his neckties are as bad as ever
they used to be.

It's going to be good to see you.  I guess after all I have told you all the news.  Nothing
much has happened, as you see.

There's a girl here; you never saw anything like her. The greater part had formed themselves into a compact
body, and kept the enemy at bay till their offer of surrender upon terms
had been accepted.

But then the ministers loudly demanded their lives; they pronounced the capitulation sinful,
and therefore void; and had the satisfaction to behold the whole body
of captives massacred in

[Sidenote a: A.D. 1645. Sept. 6.] [Sidenote b:
A.D. 1645. Sept. 13.]

cold blood, not the men only, but also every
woman and child found upon the Haugh.  Among other members of the family, Mrs. Hazelden, who was Miss Helen, has a sister
who seems a pleasant young lady.  I will soon leave for America; and except for leaving the
Hazeldens, as well as Helen's sister, who seems real pleasant, I shall be glad to go.  I do
hate to hang around and do nothing.  A million people come here every day and work for the
soldiers.  I think the men would appreciate it if they could know the amount of tea it takes
to keep them going here while they sew.

The money is all fixed up.  I do hope you will enjoy spending it.  Let me hear from you some
day, doctor.  Perhaps that is asking a good deal, but it would be fine if you could spare time.

I often think of Velo.  Somehow he seems different to me now. All this by way of prelude to a protest against
the exaggerative ecstasies indulged in by many civilians when discussing
the air services.

The British pilots are competent and daring, but they would be the
last to claim an undue share of war's glory.  I don't know.  Anyway, somehow I think of him a good deal, and
I'm glad I do, because it must be awful to have no one at all to think of you after you are dead.

I will write again when I get back to America, doctor.  Don't forget me and don't forget that
I am going to try to be as great a surgeon as you are.

Your friend,
  ZAIDOS."

The third letter was written in modern Greek, using the familiar "thee" and "thou" of intimate
speech.

My old Nurse Maratha:

The war kept me from thee, when at last I could get away.  I would have come to Saloniki if
I could but I had an errand that took me straight to England.

Velo is dead, Maratha.  He was shot in the big battle.  You must have been praying when he
died, if I know thee still.  And I was shot, too, a little, and must ever walk lame.  I tell
thee this so no one else may tell thee first.  I am only a little lame, though.  In a day or
two I take ship for America and so back to school, as thou heardst His Highness, my father,
plan that last night.  Close the house, and go thou to the lodge.  Keep all the servants who
have served my father for more than ten years and pay them from the money I shall send thee
each month.  And be very good to Maratha, for I shall come back some day, and she must not
be too old or too lame to take care of me.

Good-bye, Maratha.  I am always
  Thy boy,
    ZAIDOS.

Zaidos sealed the letters and sent them off with a sigh of relief. Six o'clock arrived, and the "Lightning
Express," over the Erie Railway, bore, among other less important
freight, Miselle and her fortunes.

But, unfortunately for the interest of this narrative, she had unwittingly
selected an "off-night" for her journey; neither horrible accident
nor raid of bold marauders enlivened the occasion; and undisturbed,
the reckless passengers slept throughout the night, as men have slept
who knew that a scaffold waited for them with the morning's light.  Three familiar figures came down, looking
here and there.  Helen saw them and exclaimed, "Why, there's father, and mother, and Alice!"

And sure as fate it was!  The rector had had to take the next train for London most unexpectedly,
and so thought he would bring his wife and daughter to join in the leave-takings.

So Zaidos had quite a little group of people waving him good-bye as the ship went slowly out
into the west.  But the gaze that held him longest and the face he saw the last was not Helen's!

