I will not pursue these speculations further, for the narghileh (bubbling softly at my elbow,
as I write) is the promoter of repose and the begetter of agreeable reverie. As I inhale its
cool, fragrant breath, and partly yield myself to the sensation of healthy rest which wraps
my limbs as with a velvet mantle, I marvel how the poets and artists and scholars of olden
times nursed those dreams which the world calls indolence, but which are the seeds that germinate
into great achievements. How did Plato philosophize without the pipe? How did gray Homer, sitting
on the temple-steps in the Grecian twilights, drive from his heart the bitterness of beggary
and blindness? How did Phidias charm the Cerberus of his animal nature to sleep, while his
soul entered the Elysian Fields and beheld the forms of heroes? For, in the higher world of
Art, Body and Soul are sworn enemies, and the pipe holds an opiate more potent than all the
drowsy syrups of the East, to drug the former into submission. Milton knew this, as he smoked
his evening pipe at Chalfont, wandering, the while, among the palms of Paradise.

But it is also our loss, that Tobacco was unknown to the Greeks. They would else have given
us, in verse and in marble, another divinity in their glorious Pantheon--a god less drowsy
than Morpheus and Somnus, less riotous than Bacchus, less radiant than Apollo, but with something
of the spirit of each: a figure, beautiful with youth, every muscle in perfect repose, and
the vague expression of dreams in his half-closed eyes. His temple would have been built in
a grove of Southern pines, on the borders of a land-locked gulf, sheltered from the surges
that buffet without, where service would have been rendered him in the late hours of the afternoon,
or in the evening twilight. From his oracular tripod words of wisdom would have been spoken,
and the fanes of Delphi and Dodona would have been deserted for his.

Oh, non-smoking friends, who read these lines with pain and incredulity--and you, ladies, who
turn pale at the thought of a pipe--let me tell you that you are familiar only with the vulgar
form of tobacco, and have never passed between the wind and its gentility. The word conveys
no idea to you but that of "long nines," and pig-tail, and cavendish. Forget these for a moment,
and look upon this dark-brown cake of dried leaves and blossoms, which exhales an odor of pressed
flowers. These are the tender tops of the Jebelee, plucked as the buds begin to expand, and
carefully dried in the shade. In order to be used, it is moistened with rose-scented water,
and cut to the necessary degree of fineness. The test of true Jebelee is, that it burns with
a slow, hidden fire, like tinder, and causes no irritation to the eye when held under it. The
smoke, drawn through a long cherry-stick pipe and amber mouth-piece, is pure, cool, and sweet,
with an aromatic flavor, which is very pleasant in the mouth. It excites no salivation, and
leaves behind it no unpleasant, stale odor.

The narghileh (still bubbling beside me) is an institution known only in the East. It requires
a peculiar kind of tobacco, which grows to perfection in the southern provinces of Persia.
The smoke, after passing through water (rose-flavored, if you choose), is inhaled through a
long, flexible tube directly into the lungs. It occasions not the slightest irritation or oppression,
but in a few minutes produces a delicious sense of rest, which is felt even in the finger-ends.
The pure physical sensation of rest is one of strength also, and of perfect contentment. Many
an impatient thought, many an angry word, have I avoided by a resort to the pipe. Among our
aborigines the pipe was the emblem of Peace, and I strongly recommend the Peace Society to
print their tracts upon papers of smoking tobacco (Turkish, if possible), and distribute pipes
with them.

I know of nothing more refreshing, after the fatigue of a long day's journey, than a well-prepared
narghileh. That slight feverish and excitable feeling which is the result of fatigue yields
at once to its potency. The blood loses its heat and the pulse its rapidity; the muscles relax,
the nerves are soothed into quiet, and the frame passes into a condition similar to sleep,
except that the mind is awake and active. By the time one has finished his pipe, he is refreshed
for the remainder of the day, and his nightly sleep is sound and healthy. Such are some of
the physical effects of the pipe, in Eastern lands. Morally and psychologically, it works still
greater transformations; but to describe them now, with the mouth-piece at my lips, would require
an active self-consciousness which the habit does not allow.

A servant enters with a steamy cup of coffee, seated in a silver zerf, or cup-holder. His thumb
and fore-finger are clasped firmly upon the bottom of the zerf, which I inclose near the top
with my own thumb and finger, so that the transfer is accomplished without his hand having
touched mine.

After draining the thick brown liquid, which must be done with due deliberation and a pause
of satisfaction between each sip, I return the zerf, holding it in the middle, while the attendant
places a palm of each hand upon the top and bottom and carries it off without contact. The
beverage is made of the berries of Mocha, slightly roasted, pulverized in a mortar, and heated
to a foam, without the addition of cream or sugar. Sometimes, however, it is flavored with
the extract of roses or violets. When skilfully made, each cup is prepared separately, and
the quantity of water and coffee carefully measured.

Coffee is a true child of the East, and its original home was among the hills of Yemen, the
Arabia Felix of the ancients. Fortunately for Mussulmen, its use was unknown in the days of
Mahomet, or it would probably have fallen under the same prohibition as wine. The word Kahweh
(whence café) is an old Arabic term for wine. The discovery of the properties of coffee is
attributed to a dervish, who, for some misdemeanor, was carried into the mountains of Yemen
by his brethren and there left to perish by starvation. In order to appease the pangs of hunger
he gathered the ripe berries from the wild coffee-trees, roasted and ate them. The nourishment
they contained, with water from the springs, sustained his life, and after two or three months
he returned in good condition to his brethren, who considered his preservation as a miracle,
and ever afterwards looked upon him as a pattern of holiness. He taught the use of the miraculous
fruit, and the demand for it soon became so great as to render the cultivation of the tree
necessary. It was a long time, however, before coffee was introduced into Europe. As late as
the beginning of the seventeenth century, Sandys, the quaint old traveller, describes the appearance
and taste of the beverage, which he calls "Coffa," and sagely asks: "Why not that black broth
which the Lacedemonians used?"

On account of the excellence of the material, and the skilful manner of its preparation, the
Coffee of the East is the finest in the world. I have found it so grateful and refreshing a
drink, that I can readily pardon the pleasant exaggeration of the Arabic poet, Abd-el Kader
Anazari Djezeri Hanbali, the son of Mahomet, who thus celebrates its virtues. After such an
exalted eulogy, my own praises would sound dull and tame; and I therefore resume my pipe, commending
Abd-el Kader to the reader.

"O Coffee! thou dispellest the cares of the great; thou bringest back those who wander from
the paths of knowledge. Coffee is the beverage of the people of God, and the cordial of his
servants who thirst for wisdom. When coffee is infused into the bowl, it exhales the odor of
musk, and is of the color of ink. The truth is not known except to the wise, who drink it from
the foaming coffee-cup. God has deprived fools of coffee, who, with invincible obstinacy, condemn
it as injurious.

"Coffee is our gold; and in the place of its libations we are in the enjoyment of the best
and noblest society. Coffee is even as innocent a drink as the purest milk, from which it is
distinguished only by its color. Tarry with thy coffee in the place of its preparation, and
the good God will hover over thee and participate in his feast. There the graces of the saloon,
the luxury of life, the society of friends, all furnish a picture of the abode of happiness.

"Every care vanishes when the cup-bearer presents the delicious chalice. It will circulate
fleetly through thy veins, and will not rankle there: if thou doubtest this, contemplate the
youth and beauty of those who drink it. Grief cannot exist where it grows; sorrow humbles itself
in obedience before its powers.

"Coffee is the drink of God's people; in it is health. Let this be the answer to those who
doubt its qualities. In it we will drown our adversities, and in its fire consume our sorrows.
Whoever has once seen the blissful chalice, will scorn the wine-cup. Glorious drink! thy color
is the seal of purity, and reason proclaims it genuine. Drink with confidence, and regard not
the prattle of fools, who condemn without foundation."

  Shelley.

Aleppo, Friday, June 4, 1852.

A Traveller in the East, who has not unbounded time and an extensive fortune at his disposal,
is never certain where and how far he shall go, until his journey is finished. With but a limited
portion of both these necessaries, I have so far carried out my original plan with scarcely
a variation; but at present I am obliged to make a material change of route. My farthest East
is here at Aleppo. At Damascus, I was told by everybody that it was too late in the season
to visit either Baghdad or Mosul, and that, on account of the terrible summer heats and the
fevers which prevail along the Tigris, it would be imprudent to undertake it. Notwithstanding
this, I should probably have gone (being now so thoroughly acclimated that I have nothing to
fear from the heat), had I not met with a friend of Col. Rawlinson, the companion of Layard,
and the sharer in his discoveries at Nineveh. This gentleman, who met Col. R. not long since
in Constantinople, on his way to Baghdad (where he resides as British Consul), informed me
that since the departure of Mr. Layard from Mosul, the most interesting excavations have been
filled up, in order to preserve the sculptures. Unless one was able to make a new exhumation,
he would be by no means repaid for so long and arduous a journey. The ruins of Nineveh are
all below the surface of the earth, and the little of them that is now left exposed, is less
complete and interesting than the specimens in the British Museum.

There is a route from Damascus to Baghdad, across the Desert, by way of Palmyra, but it is
rarely travelled, even by the natives, except when the caravans are sufficiently strong to
withstand the attacks of the Bedouins. The traveller is obliged to go in Arab costume, to leave
his baggage behind, except a meagre scrip for the journey, and to pay from $300 to $500 for
the camels and escort. The more usual route is to come northward to this city, then cross to
Mosul and descend the Tigris--a journey of four or five weeks. After weighing all the advantages
and disadvantages of undertaking a tour of such length as it would be necessary to make before
reaching Constantinople, I decided at Beyrout to give up the fascinating fields of travel in
Media, Assyria and Armenia, and take a rather shorter and-perhaps equally interesting route
from Aleppo to Constantinople, by way of Tarsus, Konia (Iconium), and the ancient countries
of Phrygia, Bithynia, and Mysia. The interior of Asia Minor is even less known to us than the
Persian side of Asiatic Turkey, which has of late received more attention from travellers;
and, as I shall traverse it in its whole length, from Syria to the Bosphorus, I may find it
replete with "green fields and pastures new," which shall repay me for relinquishing the first
and more ambitious undertaking. At least, I have so much reason to be grateful for the uninterrupted
good health and good luck I have enjoyed during seven months in Africa and the Orient, that
I cannot be otherwise than content with the prospect before me.

I left Beyrout on the night of the 28th of May, with Mr. Harrison, who has decided to keep
me company as far as Constantinople. François, our classic dragoman, whose great delight is
to recite Homer by the sea-side, is retained for the whole tour, as we have found no reason
to doubt his honesty or ability. Our first thought was to proceed to Aleppo by land, by way
of Homs and Hamah, whence there might be a chance of reaching Palmyra; but as we found an opportunity
of engaging an American yacht for the voyage up the coast, it was thought preferable to take
her, and save time. She was a neat little craft, called the "American Eagle," brought out by
Mr. Smith, our Consul at Beyrout. So, one fine moonlit night, we slowly crept out of the harbor,
and after returning a volley of salutes from our friends at Demetri's Hotel, ran into the heart
of a thunder-storm, which poured down more rain than all I had seen for eight months before.
But our raïs, Assad (the Lion), was worthy of his name, and had two good Christian sailors
at his command, so we lay in the cramped little cabin, and heard the floods washing our deck,
without fear.

In the morning, we were off Tripoli, which is even more deeply buried than Beyrout in its orange
and mulberry groves, and slowly wafted along the bold mountain-coast, in the afternoon reached
Tartus, the Ancient Tortosa. A mile from shore is the rocky island of Aradus, entirely covered
by a town. There were a dozen vessels lying in the harbor. The remains of a large fortress
and ancient mole prove it to have been a place of considerable importance. Tartus is a small
old place on the sea-shore--not so large nor so important in appearance as its island-port.
The country behind is green and hilly, though but partially cultivated, and rises into Djebel
Ansairiyeh, which divides the valley of the Orontes from the sea. It is a lovely coast, especially
under the flying lights and shadows of such a breezy day as we had. The wind fell at sunset;
but by the next morning, we had passed the tobacco-fields of Latakiyeh, and were in sight of
the southern cape of the Bay of Suediah. The mountains forming this cape culminate in a grand
conical peak, about 5,000 feet in height, called Djebel Okrab. At ten o'clock, wafted along
by a slow wind, we turned the point and entered the Bay of Suediah, formed by the embouchure
of the River Orontes. The mountain headland of Akma Dagh, forming the portal of the Gulf of
Scanderoon, loomed grandly in front of us across the bay; and far beyond it, we could just
distinguish the coast of Karamania, the snow-capped range of Taurus.

The Coasts of Syria might be divided, like those of Guinea, according to the nature of their
productions. The northern division is bold and bare, yet flocks of sheep graze on the slopes
of its mountains; and the inland plains behind them are covered with orchards of pistachio-trees.
Silk is cultivated in the neighborhood of Suediah, but forms only a small portion of the exports.
This region may be called the Wool and Pistachio Coast. Southward, from Latakiyeh to Tartus
and the northern limit of Lebanon, extends the Tobacco Coast, whose undulating hills are now
clothed with the pale-green leaves of the renowned plant. From Tripoli to Tyre, embracing all
the western slope of Lebanon, and the deep, rich valleys lying between his knees, the mulberry
predominates, and the land is covered with the houses of thatch and matting which shelter the
busy worms. This is the Silk Coast. The palmy plains of Jaffa, and beyond, until Syria meets
the African sands between Gaza and El-Arish, constitute the Orange Coast. The vine, the olive,
and the fig flourish everywhere.

We were all day getting up the bay, and it seemed as if we should never pass Djebel Okrab,
whose pointed top rose high above a long belt of fleecy clouds that girdled his waist. At sunset
we made the mouth of the Orontes. Our lion of a Captain tried to run into the river, but the
channel was very narrow, and when within three hundred yards of the shore the yacht struck.
We had all sail set, and had the wind been a little stronger, we should have capsized in an
instant. The lion went manfully to work, and by dint of hard poling, shoved us off, and came
to anchor in deep water. Not until the danger was past did he open his batteries on the unlucky
helmsman, and then the explosion of Arabic oaths was equal to a broadside of twenty-four pounders.
We lay all night rocking on the swells, and the next morning, by firing a number of signal
guns, brought out a boat, which took us off. We entered the mouth of the Orontes, and sailed
nearly a mile between rich wheat meadows before reaching the landing-place of Suediah--two
or three uninhabited stone huts, with three or four small Turkish craft, and a health officer.
The town lies a mile or two inland, scattered along the hill-side amid gardens so luxuriant
as almost to conceal it from view.

This part of the coast is ignorant of travellers, and we were obliged to wait half a day before
we could find a sufficient number of horses to take us to Antioch, twenty miles distant. When
they came, they were solid farmers' horses, with the rudest gear imaginable. I was obliged
to mount astride of a broad pack-saddle, with my legs suspended in coils of rope. Leaving the
meadows, we entered a lane of the wildest, richest and loveliest bloom and foliage. Our way
was overhung with hedges of pomegranate, myrtle, oleander, and white rose, in blossom, and
occasionally with quince, fig, and carob trees, laced together with grape vines in fragrant
bloom. Sometimes this wilderness of color and odor met above our heads and made a twilight;
then it opened into long, dazzling, sun-bright vistas, where the hues of the oleander, pomegranate
and white rose made the eye wink with their gorgeous profusion. The mountains we crossed were
covered with thickets of myrtle, mastic, daphne, and arbutus, and all the valleys and sloping
meads waved with fig, mulberry, and olive trees. Looking towards the sea, the valley broadened
out between mountain ranges whose summits were lost in the clouds. Though the soil was not
so rich as in Palestine, the general aspect of the country was much wilder and more luxuriant.

So, by this glorious lane, over the myrtled hills and down into valleys, whose bed was one
hue of rose from the blossoming oleanders, we travelled for five hours, crossing the low ranges
of hills through which the Orontes forces his way to the sea. At last we reached a height overlooking
the valley of the river, and saw in the east, at the foot of the mountain chain, the long lines
of barracks built by Ibrahim Pasha for the defence of Antioch. Behind them the ancient wall
of the city clomb the mountains, whose crest it followed to the last peak of the chain, From
the next hill we saw the city--a large extent of one-story houses with tiled roofs, surrounded
with gardens, and half buried in the foliage of sycamores. It extends from the River Orontes,
which washes its walls, up the slope of the mountain to the crags of gray rock which overhang
it. We crossed the river by a massive old bridge, and entered the town. Riding along the rills
of filth which traverse the streets, forming their central avenues, we passed through several
lines of bazaars to a large and dreary-looking khan, the keeper of which gave us the best vacant
chamber--a narrow place, full of fleas.

Antioch presents not even a shadow of its former splendor. Except the great walls, ten to fifteen
miles in circuit, which the Turks have done their best to destroy, every vestige of the old
city has disappeared. The houses are all of one story, on account of earthquakes, from which
Antioch has suffered more than any other city in the world. At one time, during the Middle
Ages, it lost 120,000 inhabitants in one day. Its situation is magnificent, and the modern
town, notwithstanding its filth, wears a bright and busy aspect. Situated at the base of a
lofty mountain, it overlooks, towards the east, a plain thirty or forty miles in length, producing
the most abundant harvests. A great number of the inhabitants are workers in wood and leather,
and very thrifty and cheerful people they appear to be.

We remained until the next day at noon, by which time a gray-bearded scamp, the chief of the
mukkairees, or muleteers, succeeded in getting us five miserable beasts for the journey to
Aleppo. On leaving the city, we travelled along a former street of Antioch, part of the ancient
pavement still remaining, and after two miles came to the old wall of circuit, which we passed
by a massive gateway, of Roman time. It is now called Bab Boulos, or St. Paul's Gate. Christianity,
it will be remembered, was planted in Antioch by Paul and Barnabas, and the Apostle Peter was
the first bishop of the city. We now entered the great plain of the Orontes--a level sea, rioting
in the wealth of its ripening harvests. The river, lined with luxuriant thickets, meandered
through the centre of this glorious picture. We crossed it during the afternoon, and keeping
on our eastward course, encamped at night in a meadow near the tents of some wandering Turcomans,
who furnished us with butter and milk from their herds.

Leaving the plain the next morning, we travelled due east all day, over long stony ranges of
mountains, inclosing only one valley, which bore evidence of great fertility. It was circular,
about ten miles in its greater diameter, and bounded on the north by the broad peak of Djebel
Saman, or Mount St. Simon. In the morning we passed a ruined castle, standing in a dry, treeless
dell, among the hot hills. The muleteers called it the Maiden's Palace, and said that it was
built long ago by a powerful Sultan, as a prison for his daughter. For several hours thereafter,
our road was lined with remains of buildings, apparently dating from the time of the Greek
Empire. There were tombs, temples of massive masonry, though in a bad style of architecture,
and long rows of arched chambers, which resembled store-houses. They were all more or less
shattered by earthquakes, but in one place I noticed twenty such arches, each of at least twenty
feet span. All-the hills, on either hand, as far as we could see, were covered with the remains
of buildings. In the plain of St. Simon, I saw two superb pillars, apparently part of a portico,
or gateway, and the village of Dana is formed almost entirely of churches and convents, of
the Lower Empire. There were but few inscriptions, and these I could not read; but the whole
of this region would, no doubt, richly repay an antiquarian research. I am told here that the
entire chain of hills, which extends southward for more than a hundred miles, abounds with
similar remains, and that, in many places, whole cities stand almost entire, as if recently
deserted by their inhabitants.

During the afternoon, we came upon a portion of the ancient road from Antioch to Aleppo, which
is still as perfect as when first constructed. It crossed a very stony ridge, and is much the
finest specimen of road-making I ever saw, quite putting to shame the Appian and Flaminian
Ways at Rome. It is twenty feet wide, and laid with blocks of white marble, from two to four
feet square. It was apparently raised upon a more ancient road, which diverges here and there
from the line, showing the deeply-cut traces of the Roman chariot-wheels. In the barren depths
of the mountains we found every hour cisterns cut in the rock and filled with water left by
the winter rains. Many of them, however, are fast drying up, and a month later this will be
a desert road.

Towards night we descended from the hills upon the Plain of Keftin, which stretches south-westward
from Aleppo, till the mountain-streams which fertilize it are dried up, when it is merged into
the Syrian Desert. Its northern edge, along which we travelled, is covered with fields of wheat,
cotton, and castor-beans. We stopped all night at a village called Taireb, planted at the foot
of a tumulus, older than tradition. The people were in great dread of the Aneyzeh Arabs, who
come in from the Desert to destroy their harvests and carry off their cattle. They wanted us
to take a guard, but after our experience on the Anti-Lebanon, we felt safer without one.

Yesterday we travelled for seven hours over a wide, rolling country, now waste and barren,
but formerly covered with wealth and supporting an abundant population, evidences of which
are found in the buildings everywhere scattered over the hills. On and on we toiled in the
heat, over this inhospitable wilderness, and though we knew Aleppo must be very near, yet we
could see neither sign of cultivation nor inhabitants. Finally, about three o'clock, the top
of a line of shattered wall and the points of some minarets issued out of the earth, several
miles in front of us, and on climbing a glaring chalky ridge, the renowned city burst at once
upon our view. It filled a wide hollow or basin among the white hills, against which its whiter
houses and domes glimmered for miles, in the dead, dreary heat of the afternoon, scarcely relieved
by the narrow belt of gardens on the nearer side, or the orchards of pistachio trees beyond.
In the centre of the city rose a steep, abrupt mound, crowned with the remains of the ancient
citadel, and shining minarets shot up, singly or in clusters, around its base. The prevailing
hue of the landscape was a whitish-gray, and the long, stately city and long, monotonous hills,
gleamed with equal brilliancy under a sky of cloudless and intense blue. This singular monotony
of coloring gave a wonderful effect to the view, which is one of the most remarkable in all
the Orient.

Aleppo, Tuesday, June 8, 1852.

Our entry into Aleppo was a fitting preliminary to our experiences during the five days we
have spent here. After passing a blackamoor, who acted as an advanced guard of the Custom House,
at a ragged tent outside of the city, and bribing him with two piastres, we crossed the narrow
line of gardens on the western side, and entered the streets. There were many coffee-houses,
filled with smokers, nearly all of whom accosted us in Turkish, though Arabic is the prevailing
language here. Ignorance made us discourteous, and we slighted every attempt to open a conversation.
Out of the narrow streets of the suburbs, we advanced to the bazaars, in order to find a khan
where we could obtain lodgings. All the best khans, however, were filled, and we were about
to take a very inferior room, when a respectable individual came up to François and said: "The
house is ready for the travellers, and I will show you the way." We were a little surprised
at this address, but followed him to a neat, quiet and pleasant street near the bazaars, where
we were ushered into a spacious court-yard, with a row of apartments opening upon it, and told
to make ourselves at home.

The place had evidently been recently inhabited, for the rooms were well furnished, with not
only divans, but beds in the Frank style. A lean kitten was scratching at one of the windows,
to the great danger of overturning a pair of narghilehs, a tame sea-gull was walking about
the court, and two sheep bleated in a stable at the further end. In the kitchen we not only
found a variety of utensils, but eggs, salt, pepper, and other condiments. Our guide had left,
and the only information we could get, from a dyeing establishment next door, was that the
occupants had gone into the country. "Take the good the gods provide thee," is my rule in such
cases, and as we were very hungry, we set François to work at preparing dinner. We arranged
a divan in the open air, had a table brought out, and by the aid of the bakers in the bazaar,
and the stores which the kitchen supplied, soon rejoiced over a very palatable meal. The romantic
character of our reception made the dinner a merry one. It was a chapter out of the Arabian
Nights, and be he genie or afrite, caliph or merchant of Bassora, into whose hands we had fallen,
we resolved to let the adventure take its course. We were just finishing a nondescript pastry
which François found at a baker's, and which, for want of a better name, he called méringues
à la Khorassan, when there was a loud knock at the street door. We felt at first some little
trepidation, but determined to maintain our places, and gravely invite the real master to join us.

It was a female servant, however, who, to our great amazement, made a profound salutation,
and seemed delighted to see us. "My master did not expect your Excellencies to-day; he has
gone into the gardens, but will soon return. Will your Excellencies take coffee after your
dinner?" and coffee was forthwith served. The old woman was unremitting in her attentions;
and her son, a boy of eight years, and the most venerable child I ever saw, entertained us
with the description of a horse which his master had just bought--a horse which had cost two
thousand piastres, and was ninety years old. Well, this Aleppo is an extraordinary place, was
my first impression, and the inhabitants are remarkable people; but I waited the master's arrival,
as the only means of solving the mystery. About dusk, there was another rap at the door. A
lady dressed in white, with an Indian handkerchief bound over her black hair, arrived. "Pray
excuse us," said she; "we thought you would not reach here before to-morrow; but my brother
will come directly." In fact, the brother did come soon afterwards, and greeted us with a still
warmer welcome. "Before leaving the gardens," he said, "I heard of your arrival, and have come
in a full gallop the whole way." In order to put an end to this comedy of errors, I declared
at once that he was mistaken; nobody in Aleppo could possibly know of our coming, and we were,
perhaps, transgressing on his hospitality. But no: he would not be convinced. He was a dragoman
to the English Consulate; his master had told him we would be here the next day, and he must
be prepared to receive us. Besides, the janissary of the Consulate had showed us the way to
his house. We, therefore, let the matter rest until next morning, when we called on Mr. Very,
the Consul, who informed us that the janissary had mistaken us for two gentlemen we had met
in Damascus, the travelling companions of Lord Dalkeith. As they had not arrived, he begged
us to remain in the quarters which had been prepared for them. We have every reason to be glad
of this mistake, as it has made us acquainted with one of the most courteous and hospitable
gentlemen in the East.

Aleppo lies so far out of the usual routes of travel, that it is rarely visited by Europeans.
One is not, therefore, as in the case of Damascus, prepared beforehand by volumes of description,
which preclude all possibility of mistake or surprise. For my part, I only knew that Aleppo
had once been the greatest commercial city of the Orient, though its power had long since passed
into other hands. But there were certain stately associations lingering around the name, which
drew me towards it, and obliged me to include it, at all hazards, in my Asiatic tour. The scanty
description of Captains Irby and Mangles, the only one I had read, gave me no distinct idea
of its position or appearance; and when, the other day, I first saw it looming grand and gray
among the gray hills, more like a vast natural crystallization than the product of human art,
I revelled in the novelty of that startling first impression.

The tradition of the city's name is curious, and worth relating. It is called, in Arabic, Haleb
el-Shahba--Aleppo, the Gray--which most persons suppose to refer to the prevailing color of
the soil. The legend, however, goes much farther. Haleb, which the Venetians and Genoese softened
into Aleppo, means literally: "has milked," According to Arab tradition, the patriarch Abraham
once lived here: his tent being pitched near the mound now occupied by the citadel. He had
a certain gray cow (el-shahba) which was milked every morning for the benefit of the poor.
When, therefore, it was proclaimed: "Ibrahim haleb el-shahba" (Abraham has milked the gray
cow), all the poor of the tribe came up to receive their share. The repetition of this morning
call attached itself to the spot, and became the name of the city which was afterwards founded.

Aleppo is built on the eastern slope of a shallow upland basin, through which flows the little
River Koweik. There are low hills to the north and south, between which the country falls into
a wide, monotonous plain, extending unbroken to the Euphrates. The city is from eight to ten
miles in circuit, and, though not so thickly populated, covers a greater extent of space than
Damascus. The population is estimated at 100,000. In the excellence (not the elegance) of its
architecture, it surpasses any Oriental city I have yet seen. The houses are all of hewn stone,
frequently three and even four stories in height, and built in a most massive and durable style,
on account of the frequency of earthquakes. The streets are well paved, clean, with narrow
sidewalks, and less tortuous and intricate than the bewildering alleys of Damascus. A large
part of the town is occupied with bazaars, attesting the splendor of its former commerce. These
establishments are covered with lofty vaults of stone, lighted from the top; and one may walk
for miles beneath the spacious roofs. The shops exhibit all the stuffs of the East, especially
of Persia and India. There is also an extensive display of European fabrics, as the eastern
provinces of Asiatic Turkey, as far as Baghdad, are supplied entirely from Aleppo and Trebizond.

Within ten years--in fact, since the Allied Powers drove Ibrahim Pasha out of Syria--the trade
of Aleppo has increased, at the expense of Damascus. The tribes of the Desert, who were held
in check during the Egyptian occupancy, are now so unruly that much of the commerce between
the latter place and Baghdad goes northward to Mosul, and thence by a safer road to this city.
The khans, of which there are a great number, built on a scale according with the former magnificence
of Aleppo, are nearly all filled, and Persian, Georgian, and Armenian merchants again make
their appearance in the bazaars. The principal manufactures carried on are the making of shoes
(which, indeed, is a prominent branch in every Turkish city), and the weaving of silk and golden
tissues. Two long bazaars are entirely occupied with shoe-shops, and there is nearly a quarter
of a mile of confectionery, embracing more varieties than I ever saw, or imagined possible.
I saw yesterday the operation of weaving silk and gold, which is a very slow process. The warp
and the body of the woof were of purple silk. The loom only differed from the old hand-looms
in general use in having some thirty or forty contrivances for lifting the threads of the warp,
so as to form, by variation, certain patterns. The gold threads by which the pattern was worked
were contained in twenty small shuttles, thrust by hand under the different parcels of the
warp, as they were raised by a boy trained for that purpose, who sat on the top of the loom.
The fabric was very brilliant in its appearance, and sells, as the weavers informed me, at
100 piastres per pik--about $7 per yard.

We had letters to Mr. Ford, an American Missionary established here, and Signor di Picciotto,
who acts as American Vice-Consul. Both gentlemen have been very cordial in their offers of
service, and by their aid we have been enabled to see something of Aleppo life and society.
Mr. Ford, who has been here four years, has a pleasant residence at Jedaida, a Christian suburb
of the city. His congregation numbers some fifty or sixty proselytes, who are mostly from the
schismatic sects of the Armenians. Dr. Smith, who established the mission at Ain-tab (two days'
journey north of this), where he died last year, was very successful among these sects, and
the congregation there amounts to nine hundred. The Sultan, a year ago, issued a firman, permitting
his Christian subjects to erect houses of worship; but, although this was proclaimed in Constantinople
and much lauded in Europe as an act of great generosity and tolerance, there has been no official
promulgation of it here. So of the aid which the Turkish Government was said to have afforded
to its destitute Christian subjects, whose houses were sacked during the fanatical rebellion
of 1850. The world praised the Sultan's charity and love of justice, while the sufferers, to
this day, lack the first experience of it. But for the spontaneous relief contributed in Europe
and among the Christian communities of the Levant, the amount of misery would have been frightful.

