POTTS'S PAINLESS CURE

By Edward Bellamy

1898

"Must you go up to that tiresome old college again to-night?"

Pouting lips and delicate brows fretted in pretty importunity over the troubled eyes enforced
the pleading tones, and yet the young man to whom they were addressed found strength to reply:--

"I 'm afraid I can't get rid of it. I particularly promised Sturgis I would look in on him,
and it won't do for me to cut my acquaintance with the class entirely just because I 'm having
such a jolly time down here."

"Oh, no, you don't think it jolly at all, or you would n't be so eager to go away. I 'm sure
I must be very dull company."

The hurt tone and pretended pique with which she said this were assuredly all that was needed
to make the petite teaser irresistible. But the young man replied, regarding her the while
with an admiration in which there was a singular expression of uneasiness:--

"Can't, Annie, 'pon honor. I 'm engaged, and you know--

    "'I could not love thee, dear, so much,
        Loved I not honor more!'"

And transferring her hand to his lips he loosed its soft, lingering clasp and was gone, stopping
at the gate to throw back a kiss to her as she stood in the porch, by way of amends for his
hasty parting.

"George Hunt, you 're an infernal scamp!"

These were the opprobrious words he muttered to himself as he passed out of earshot. The beneficent
common law does not condemn a man merely on his own confession unless circumstances in evidence
lend probability to his self-accusation. The British love of euphemism had asserted itself. "And
then you can send it to the collector by post.

You had better write down your name and address to give him. I'll guarantee to the collector that
it will be all right."

The Old Lady overwhelmed him with thanks.

Slowly and laboriously
she wrote the name and address on the piece of paper in which the
ticket was folded.

All happened just as the Stockbroker had foretold.

The Ticket-collector was very well satisfied and very much amused.

TOM was waiting for her at the terminus, and took charge of her at
once.

"Ah!" said the Stockbroker to the Curate, when she had gone, "that's my notion
of a dear Old Lady."

"Everything about her was so characteristic," answered the Curate, admiringly.

Neither
the Curate nor the Stockbroker had the advantage of hearing what
the dear Old Lady said to Tom that afternoon.

"It came off just beautifully, my boy. Not that I blame them, mind
you,--how were they to know that it was a ticket which I didn't give
up last year, and that I hadn't even taken a ticket at all to-day? No,
I don't blame them. As for the address, I put the same address that was
on the label of the Curate's bag, only I altered The Rev. CHARLES
MARLINGHURST to Mrs. MARLINGHURST.

And the Stockbroker
guaranteed that I should send either the ticket or the money.

So he'll have to pay up!

Oh, my word! My gracious word, what a treat!"

The
dear Old Lady chuckled contentedly.

Tom also chuckled.

The Stockbroker subsequently relinquished to a great extent his habit
of remarking upon his own marvellous intuition, enabling him to read
character at sight; the Curate preached a capital sermon on the deceptiveness
of man, and when he said man he meant woman.

* * * * *

TO A TOO-ENGAGING MAIDEN.

I think you should know I've been put out of humour By something I
hear very nearly each day.

In a small town like ours, as you know, every
rumour Gets about in a truly remarkable way. It is too much to hope
for that women won't prattle, But I candidly tell you, I do feel enraged
When I find that a part of their stock tittle-tattle Is that we--how
I laugh at the thought!--are engaged.

Though you don't even claim
to be reckoned as pretty, You are not, I admit it, aggressively plain.
You dress pretty well, and your talk, if not witty, As a rule doesn't
give me much positive pain. Then she must get over her disappointment as other girls did
in like cases. No doubt some woman would hurt his feelings some day, and so make it square.
He took much satisfaction in this reflection. But such cynical philosophy did not lull his
conscience, which alternately inspired his manner with an unwonted demonstrativeness and tenderness,
and again made him so uncomfortable in her presence that he was fain to tear himself away and
escape from her sight on any pretext. Her tender glances and confiding manner made him feel
like a brute, and when he kissed her he felt that it was the kiss of a Judas. Such had been
his feelings this evening, and such were the reflections tersely summed up in that ejaculation,--"George
Hunt, you 're an infernal scamp!" On arriving at Sturgis's room, he found it full of tobacco
smoke, and the usual crowd there, who hailed him vociferously. For he was one of the most popular
men in college, although for a year or so he had been living outside the buildings. Several
bottles stood on the tables, but the fellows had as yet arrived only at the argumentative stage
of exhilaration, and it so happened that the subject under discussion at once took Hunt's close
attention. Mathewson had been reading the first volume of Goethe's autobiography, and was indulging
in some strictures on his course in jilting Frederica and leaving the poor girl heartbroken.

"But, man," said Sturgis, "he didn't want to marry her, and seeing he didn't, nothing could
have been crueler to her, to say nothing of himself, than to have done so."

"Well, then," said Mathewson, "why did he go and get her in love with him?"

"Why, he took his risk and she hers, for the fun of the game. She happened to be the one who
paid for it, but it might just as well have been he. Why, Mat, you must see yourself that for
Goethe to have married then would have knocked his art-life into a cocked hat. Your artist
has just two great foes,--laziness and matrimony. Each has slain its thousands. Hitch Pegasus
to a family cart and he can't go off the thoroughfare. He must stick to the ruts. I admit that
a bad husband may be a great artist; but for a good husband, an uxorious, contented husband,
there's no chance at all."

"You are neither of you right, as usual," said little Potts, in his oracular way.

When Potts first came to college, the fellows used to make no end of fun of the air of superior
and conclusive wisdom with which he assumed to lay down the law on every question, this being
the more laughable because he was such a little chap. Potts did not pay the least attention
to the jeers, and finally the jeerers were constrained to admit that if he did have an absurdly
pretentious way of talking, his talk was unusually well worth listening to, and the result
was that they took him at his own valuation, and, for the sake of hearing what he had to say,
quietly submitted to his assumption of authority as court of appeal. So when he coolly declared
both disputants wrong, they manifested no resentment, but only an interest as to what he was
going to say, while the other fellows also looked up curiously.

"It would have been a big mistake for Goethe to have married her," pursued Potts, in his deliberate
monotone, "but he was n't justified on that account in breaking her heart. It was his business,
having got her in love with him, to get her out again and leave her where she was."

"Get her out again?" demanded Mathewson. "How was he to do that?"

"Humph!" grunted Potts. "If you have n't found it much easier to lose a friend than to win
one, you 're luckier than most. If you asked me how he was to get her in love with him, I should
have to scratch my head, but the other thing is as easy as unraveling a stocking."

"Well, but, Potts," inquired Sturgis, with interest, "how could Goethe have gone to work, for
instance, to disgust Frederica with him?"

"Depends on the kind of girl. If she is one of your high-steppers as to dignity and sense of
honor, let him play mean and seem to do a few dirty tricks. If she's a stickler for manners
and good taste, let him betray a few traits of boorishness or Philistinism; or if she has a
keen sense of the ridiculous, let him make an ass of himself. I should say the last would be
the surest cure and leave least of a sore place in her feelings, but it would be hardest on
his vanity. Everybody knows that a man would 'rather seem a scamp than a fool.'"

"I don't believe there's a man in the world who would play the voluntary fool to save any woman's
heart from breaking, though he might manage the scamp," remarked Mathewson. "And anyhow, Potts,
I believe there 's no girl who would n't choose to be jilted outright, rather than be juggled
out of her affections that way."

"No doubt she would say so, if you asked her," replied the imperturbable Potts. "A woman always
prefers a nice sentimental sorrow to a fancy-free state. But it isn't best for her, and looking
out for her good, you must deprive her of it. Women are like children, you know, our natural
wards."

This last sentiment impressed these beardless youths as a clincher, and there was a pause.
But Mathewson, who was rather strong on the moralities, rallied with the objection that Potts's
plan would be deceit.

"Well, now, that's what I call cheeky," replied its author, with a drawl of astonishment. "I
suppose it wasn't deceit when you were prancing around in your best clothes both literally
and figuratively, trying to bring your good points into such absurd prominence as to delude
her into the idea that you had no bad ones. Oh, no, it's only deceit when you appear worse
than you are, not when you try to appear better. Strikes me that when you 'ye got a girl into
a fix, it won't do at that time of day to plead your conscience as a reason for not getting
her out of it. Seeing that a man is generally ready to sacrifice his character in reality to
his own interests, he ought to be willing to sacrifice it in appearance to another's."

Mathewson was squelched, but Sturgis came to his relief with the suggestion:--

"Would n't a little genuine heartache, which I take it is healthy enough, if it is n't pleasant,
be better for her than the cynical feeling, the disgust with human nature, which she would
experience from finding her ideal of excellence a scamp or a fool?"

The others seemed somewhat impressed, but Potts merely ejaculated,--

"Bosh!" Allowing a brief pause for this ejaculation to do its work in demoralizing the opposition
he proceeded. "Sturgis, you remember 'Midsummer Night's Dream,' and how Titania, on the application
of Puck's clarifying lotion to her eyes, perceives that in Bottom she has loved an ass. Don't
you suppose Titania suffered a good deal from the loss of her ideal?"

There was a general snicker at Sturgis's expense.

"Well, now," continued Potts gravely, "a woman who should fall in love with one of us fellows
and deem him a hero would be substantially in Titania's plight when she adored Bottom, and
about as much an object of pity when her hero disclosed an asininity which would be at least
as near to being his real character as the heroism she ascribed to him."

"That 's all very well," said Merril dryly, "but it strikes me that it's middling cheeky for
you fellows to be discussing how you 'll jilt your sweethearts with least expense to their
feelings, when the chances are that if you should ever get one, you 'll need all your wits
to keep her from jilting you."

"You are, as usual, trivial and inconsequential this evening, Merril," replied Potts, when
the laughter had subsided. "Supposing, as you suggest, that we shall be the jilted and not
the jilters, it will be certainly for our interest that the ladies should spare our feelings
by disenchanting us,--saying, as it were, the charm backward that first charmed us. He who
would teach the ladies the method and enlist their tender hearts in its behalf would be, perhaps,
the greatest benefactor his much-jilted and heart-sore sex ever had. Then, indeed, with the
heart-breakers of both sexes pledged to so humane a practice, there would be no more any such
thing as sorrow over unrequited affections, and the poets and novelists would beg their bread."

"That is a millennial dream, Potts," responded Merril. "You may possibly persuade the men to
make themselves disagreeable for pity's sake, but it is quite too much to expect that a woman
would deliberately put herself in an unbecoming light, if it were to save a world from its sins."

"Perhaps it is," said Potts pensively; "but considering what perfectly inexhaustible resources
of disagreeableness there are in the best of us and the fairest of women, it seems a most gratuitous
cruelty that any heart should suffer when a very slight revelation would heal its hurt. We
can't help people suffering because we are so faulty and imperfect, but we might at least see
that nobody ever had a pang from thinking us better than we are."

"Look at Hunt!" said Sturgis. "He does n't open his mouth, but drinks in Potts's wisdom as
eagerly as if he did n't know it was a pump that never stops."

There was a general laugh among those who glanced up in time to catch the expression of close
attention on Hunt's face.

"Probably he 's deliberating on the application of the Potts patent painless cure to some recent
victim of that yellow mustache and goatee," suggested Merril, with the envy of a smooth-faced
youth for one more favored.

Hunt, whose face had sprung back like a steel-trap to its usual indifferent expression, smiled
nonchalantly at Merril's remark. One whose reticent habit makes his secrets so absolutely secure
as Hunt's private affairs always were is stirred to amusement rather than trepidation by random
guesses which come near the truth.

"If I were situated as Merril flatteringly suggests, I should enjoy nothing better than such
an experiment," he replied deliberately. "It would be quite a novel sensation to revolutionize
one's ordinary rule of conduct so as to make a point of seeming bad or stupid. There would
be as much psychology in it as in an extra term, at least. A man would find out, for instance,
how much there was in him besides personal vanity and love of approbation. It would be a devilish
small residue with most of us, I fancy."

The talk took a new turn, and the fun grew fast and furious around Hunt, who sat puffing his
pipe, absorbed in contemplation. At about half-past nine, when things were getting hilarious,
he beat a retreat, followed by the reproaches of the fellows. He was determined to administer
the first dose of Potts's painless cure to his interesting patient that very evening, if she
had not already retired. He was in high good humor. Potts was a brick; Potts was a genius.
How lucky that he had happened to go up to college that night! He felt as if an incubus were
lifted off his mind. No more pangs of conscience and uncomfortable sense of being a mean and
cruel fellow, for him. Annie should be glad to be rid of him before he had ended with her.
She should experience a heartfelt relief, instead of a broken heart, on his departure. He could
n't help chuckling. He had such confidence in his nerve and his reticent habit that his confidence
and ability to carry out the scheme were undoubting, and at its first suggestion he had felt
almost as much relief as if he had already executed it.

On arriving home, he found Annie sewing alone in the parlor, and a little offish in manner
by way of indicating her sense of his offense in leaving her to spend the evening alone.

"Really, Annie," he said, as he sat down and unfolded the evening paper, "I try to give you
all the time I can spare. If, instead of sulking, you had taken a piece of paper and calculated
how many hours this week I have managed to give you my company, you would scarcely have felt
like repining because you could n't see me for an hour or two this evening."

That was the first gun of the campaign. She looked up in blank surprise, too much astonished,
for the moment, to be indignant at such a vulgarly conceited remark from him. Without giving
her time to speak, he proposed to read the newspaper aloud, and at once began, making a point
of selecting the dullest editorials and the flattest items and witticisms, enlivening them
with occasional comments of studied insipidity, and one or two stories, of which he carefully
left out the "nubs." He was apparently making an unusual effort all the while to be entertaining,
and Annie, finding no opening for expressing her vexation, finally excused herself and went
upstairs, with no very angelic expression of countenance.

"Pretty well for a beginning," was Hunt's muttered comment as he laid down the paper.

At breakfast Mr. Gifford asked him:--

"Shall I give you some tongue?"

Looking around with the air of one saying a good thing, he replied:--

"Thank you, I have enough of my own."

The silence was painful. Mr. Gifford looked as if he had lost a near friend. Mrs. Gifford at
length, remembering that Hunt was a guest, forced a momentary, ghastly smile. Annie was looking
melancholy enough before, but a slight compression of the lips indicated that she had received
the full effect. Certain degrees of badness in jokes stamp the joker as a natural inferior
in the eyes of even the most rabid of social levelers. Scarcely any possible exhibition of
depravity gives quite the sickening sense of disappointment in the perpetrator imparted by
a genuinely bad or stale joke. Two or more similar sensations coming near together are multiplied
by mutual reverberations so as to be much more impressive than if they occurred at considerable
intervals. Hunt's tongue joke not only retroacted to deepen the impression of vulgarity which
his last evening's performance had given Annie, but in turn was made to appear a far more significant
indication of his character on account of its sequence to that display.

That evening he made her a little present, having selected as a gift a book of the day of which
he had chanced to overhear her express to a third person a particularly cordial detestation.
It was decidedly the best book of the year, he said; he had read it himself. She was obliged
to thank him for it, and even to tell one or two polite fibs, which wrenched her terribly,
and the memory of which lent a special spite to the vehemence with which she threw the book
into a corner on reaching her room. Then she went remorsefully and picked it up again, and
after holding it awhile irresolutely, proceeded to hide it away in a far corner of one of the
least used drawers of her bureau.

Not sleeping very well that night, she came downstairs next morning just as Hunt was leaving.
He kissed his hand to her and called out "Aw revore." At first she was merely puzzled, and
smiled, and then it occurred to her that it was doubtless the barbarous way he pronounced au
revoir, and the smile gave place to an expression of slight nausea. As Hunt well knew, her
pet aversion was people who lugged mispronounced French phrases into their conversation under
the impression that they imparted a piquant and graceful effect. It was a touch of vulgarity
which inspired her with a violent contempt absurdly disproportioned to the gravity of the offense.
It had always been a cherished theory of hers that there were certain offenses in manners which
were keys to character. If persons committed them, it implied an essential strain of vulgarity
in their dispositions. Judged by this theory, where would her lover come out?

Hunt managed to get into a political discussion with Mr. Gifford at table that noon, talking
in a rather supercilious tone, and purposely making several bad blunders, which Mr. Gifford
corrected rather pointedly. Annie could not help observing that her lover's conceit and ignorance
of the subjects discussed seemed about equal.

"How do you like your book?" he asked that evening.

She murmured something confusedly.

"Haven't begun it yet?" he inquired in surprise. "Well, when once you do, I 'm sure you 'll
not lay it down till it's finished. And, by the way, your judgment in literary matters is so
good, I 'd like to get your opinion on the essay I 'm getting up for Commencement. I think
it's rather the best thing I 've written."

He proceeded to read what purported to be a sketch of its argument, which proved to be so flat
and vapid that Annie blushed with shame for his mental poverty, and was fain to cover her chagrin
with a few meaningless comments.

Her mind was the theatre of a struggle between disgust and affection, which may be called ghastly.
Had he been openly wicked, she would have known how to give a good account of all disloyal
suggestions to desert or forget him. But what could she do against such a cold, creeping thing
as this disgust and revulsion of taste, which, like the chills of incipient fever, mingled
with every rising pulse of tender feeling? Finally, out of her desperation, she concluded that
the fault must be with her; that she was fickle, while he was true. She tried hard to despise
herself, and determined to fight down her growing coldness, and reciprocate as it deserved
the affection with which he was so lavish. The result of these mental exercises was to impart
a humility and constrained cordiality to her air very opposite to its usual piquancy and impulsiveness,
and, by a sense of her own shortcomings, to distract her mind from speculation, which she might
otherwise have indulged, over the sudden development of so many unpleasant qualities in her
lover. Though, indeed, had her speculations been never so active and ingenious, the actual
plan on which Hunt was proceeding would probably have lain far beyond the horizon of her conjecture.

Meanwhile, Hunt was straitened for time; only eight or ten days of the term were left, and
in that time he must effect Annie's cure, if at all. A slow cure would be much more likely
to prove a sure one, but he must do the best he could in the time he had. And yet he did not
dare to multiply startling strokes, for fear of bewildering instead of estranging her, and,
possibly, of suggesting suspicion. Stimulated by the emergency, he now began to put in some
very fine work, which, although it may not be very impressive in description, was probably
more effective than any other part of his tactics. Under guise of appearing particularly attentive
and devoted, he managed to offend Annie's taste and weary her patience in every way that ingenuity
could suggest. His very manifestations of affection were so associated with some affectation
or exhibition of bad taste, as always to leave an unpleasant impression on her mind. He took
as much pains to avoid saying tolerably bright or sensible things in his conversation as people
generally do to say them. In all respects he just reversed the rules of conduct suggested by
the ordinary motive of a desire to ingratiate one's self with others.

And by virtue of a rather marked endowment of that delicate sympathy with others' tastes and
feelings which underlies good manners, he was able to make himself far more unendurable to
Annie than a less sympathetic person could have done. Evening after evening she went to her
room feeling as if she were covered with pin-pricks, from a score of little offenses to her
fastidious taste which he had managed to commit. His thorough acquaintance with her, and knowledge
of her aesthetic standards in every respect, enabled him to operate with a perfect precision
that did not waste a stroke. 

"I think that white dress is the meltingest thing I ever saw," said
Lady Eileen, who had walked into the room without waiting for Miss
Devereux's answer to Peter Rolls's objection.

She was a kind-hearted girl, but, after all, living models were living
models until they were dead, and she wasn't going to lose the chance
of getting a dreamy frock out of Rags! All the goddesses were on
their mettle and their feet now, though swaying like tall lilies
in a high wind and occasionally bracing themselves against mirrors,
while Lady Eileen was in the biggest chair, with Raygan and Peter
Rolls standing behind her.

The men
also were offered chairs by Miss Vedrine with a lovely play of eyelashes, but refused them: the chairs,
not the eyelashes, which no man could have spurned, despite their
scattered effect.

"The white dress, moddam?" (It thrills a flapper to be called "moddam.") "It is
one of the latest designs and considered perfect for a débutante.

No doubt you know it is Mme. Nadine's custom to name her inspirations.
Come here, if you please, Miss Child! This is 'First Love.'"

"Looks like it," remarked Lord Raygan, as Miss Child obeyed. He might
have meant the wearer or the dress. Peter Rolls flashed a gimlet glance
his way to see which. He felt uncomfortably responsible for the manners
of the visitors and the feelings of the visited. But the face of Rags
was grave, and no offence could be taken. Peter Rolls withdrew the
glance, though not before Winifred Child had it intercepted and interpreted.


Lou Roberts was Annie's confidante, older than she, much more dignified, and of the reticent
sort to which the mercurial and loquacious naturally tend to reveal their secrets. She knew
all that Annie knew, dreamed, or hoped about Hunt; but had never happened to meet him, much
to the annoyance of Annie, who had longed inexpressibly for the time when Lou should have seen
him, and she herself be able to enjoy the luxury of hearing his praises from her lips. One
evening it chanced that Lou called with a gentleman while Hunt had gone out to rest himself,
after some pretty arduous masquerading, by a little unconstrained intercourse with the fellows
up at college. As he returned home, at about half-past nine, he heard voices through the open
windows, and guessed who the callers were.

As he entered the room, despite the disenchanting experiences of the past week, it was with
a certain pretty agitation that Annie rose to introduce him, and she looked blank enough when,
without waiting for her offices, he bowed with a foppish air to Lou and murmured a salutation.

"What, are you acquainted already?" exclaimed Annie.

"I certainly did not know that we were," said Lou coldly, not thinking it possible that this
flashily dressed youth, with such an enormous watch-chain and insufferable manners, could be
Annie's hero.

"Ah, very likely not," he replied carelessly, adding with an explanatory smile that took in
all the group: "Ladies' faces are so much alike that, 'pon my soul, unless there is something
distinguished about them, I don't know whether I know them or not. I depend on them to tell
me; fortunately they never forget gentlemen."

Miss Roberts's face elongated into a freezing stare. Annie stood there in a sort of stupor
till Hunt said briskly:--

"Well, Annie, are you going to introduce this lady to me?"

As she almost inaudibly pronounced their names, he effusively extended his hand, which was
not taken, and exclaimed:--

"Lou Roberts! is it possible? Excuse me if I call you Lou. Annie talks of you so much that
I feel quite familiar."

"Do you know, Miss Roberts," he continued, seating himself close beside her, "I 'm quite prepared
to like you?"

"Indeed!" was all that young lady could manage to articulate.

"Yes," continued he, with the manner of one giving a flattering reassurance, "Annie has told
me so much in your favor that, if half is true, we shall get on together excellently. Such
girl friendships as yours and hers are so charming."

Miss Roberts glanced at Annie, and seeing that her face glowed with embarrassment, smothered
her indignation, and replied with a colorless "Yes."

"The only drawback," continued Hunt, who manifestly thought he was making himself very agreeable,
"is that such bosom friends always tell each other all their affairs, which of course involve
the affairs of all their friends also. Now I suppose," he added, with a knowing grin and something
like a wink, "that what you don't know about me is n't worth knowing."

"You ought to know, certainly," said Miss Roberts.

"Not that I blame you," he went on, ignoring her sarcasm. "There's no confidence betrayed,
for when I 'm talking with a lady, I always adapt my remarks to the ears of her next friend.
It prevents misunderstandings."

Miss Roberts made no reply, and the silence attracted notice to the pitiable little dribble
of forced talk with which Annie was trying to keep the other gentleman's attention from the
exhibition Hunt was making of himself. The latter, after a pause long enough to intimate that
he thought it was Miss Roberts's turn to say something, again took up the conversation, as
if bound to be entertaining at any cost.

"Annie and I were passing your house the other day. What a queer little box it is! I should
think you 'd be annoyed by the howlings of that church next door. The ------ are so noisy."

"I am a ------ myself," said Miss Roberts, regarding him crushingly.

Hunt, of course, knew that, and had advisedly selected her denomination for his strictures.
But he replied as if a little confused by his blunder:--

"I beg your pardon. You don't look like one."

"How do they usually look?" she asked sharply.

"Why, it is generally understood that they are rather vulgar, I believe, but you, I am sure,
look like a person of culture." "Curate wanted. £22. 2 churches. E.P."

Church Times. He lures a reader on by a display of gentleness and
smoothness and moderation, and then turns on him and makes it plain
that he is really a most provocative fellow and is engaged in matching
his mind against yours.

He tries to commit you to some such statement as this: "The allegiance of the workman in time of peace is
not rendered to the State, but to himself and his own class."

Or this: "I think editors, journalists, old gentlemen and women will
be brutalised [by the War] in larger numbers than our soldiers."

Or this: "My mind is open, and when one says that, one generally means
that it is shut." Disconcerting, very, and all to be found in Another Sheaf
(HEINEMANN).

Mr. GALSWORTHY'S chief object in his little book is to arouse us to the
disgrace and destruction of our State and race if we continue to
allow ourselves to be fed, not by our own resources, but by alien
corn and meat, which may so easily become hostile corn and meat.

Incidentally
Mr. GALSWORTHY finds that we are in the mass far too ugly. For instance,
how few of us have chiselled nostrils! We ought not to eat so much
pure white flour. Well, after finishing the book, which is in some
ways a sequel to The Dark Forest, I felt so very disinclined to believe
this statement that I consulted a Russian, who is very much alive,
and received the opinion that, if Mr. WALPOLE has not succeeded in
drawing the real average Russian, he has given us a type whose faults
and virtues sound the keynote of the situation as it is to-day. You might call
on Annie a dozen times and not meet me."

As soon as the callers had gone, Hunt picked up the evening paper and sat down to glance it
over, remarking lightly as he did so:--

"Rather nice girl, your friend, though she does n't seem very talkative."

Annie made no reply, and he looked up.

"What on earth are you staring at me in such an extraordinary manner for?"

Was he then absolutely unconscious of the figure he had made of himself?

"You are not vexed because I went out and left you in the early part of the evening?" he said
anxiously.

"Oh, no, indeed," she wearily replied.

She sat there with trembling lip and a red spot in each cheek, looking at him as he read the
paper unconcernedly, till she could bear it no longer, and then silently rose and glided out
of the room. Hunt heard her running upstairs as fast as she could, and closing and locking
her chamber door.

Next day he did not see her till evening, when she was exceedingly cold and distant, and evidently
very much depressed. After bombarding her with grieved and reproachful glances for some time,
he came over to her side, they two having been left alone, and said, with affectionate raillery:--

"I 'd no idea you were so susceptible to the green-eyed monster."

She looked at him, astonished quite out of her reserve.

"What on earth do you mean?"

"Oh, you need n't pretend to misunderstand," he replied, with a knowing nod. "Don't you suppose
I saw how vexed you were last night when your dear friend Miss Roberts was trying to flirt
with me? But you need n't have minded so much. She is n't my style at all."

There was something so perfectly maddening in this cool assumption that her bitter chagrin
on his account was a fond jealousy, that she fairly choked with exasperation, and shook herself
away from his caress as if a snake had stung her. Her thin nostrils vibrated, her red lips
trembled with scorn, and her black eyes flashed ominously. He had only seen them lighten with
love before, and it was a very odd sensation to see them for the first time blazing with anger,
and that against himself. Affecting an offended tone, he said:--

"This is really too absurd, Annie," and left the room as if in a pet, just in time to escape
the outburst he knew was coming. She sat in the parlor with firm-set lips till quite a late
hour that evening, hoping that he would come down and give her a chance to set him right with
an indignant explanation. So humiliating to her did his misunderstanding seem, that it was
intolerable he should retain it a moment longer, and she felt almost desperate enough to go
and knock at his door and correct it. Far too clever a strategist to risk an encounter that
evening, he sat in his room comfortably smoking and attending to arrears of correspondence,
aware that he was supposed by her to be sulking desperately all the while. He knew that her
feeling was anger and not grief, and while, had it been the latter, he would have been thoroughly
uncomfortable from sympathy, he only chuckled as he figured to himself her indignation. At
that very moment, she was undoubtedly clenching her pretty little fists, and breathing fast
with impotent wrath, in the room below. Ah, well, let her heart lie in a pickle of good strong
disgust overnight, and it would strike in a good deal more effectually than if she were allowed
to clear her mind by an indignant explanation on the spot.

The following day he bore himself toward her with the slightly distant air of one who considers
himself aggrieved, and attempted no approaches. In the evening, which was her first opportunity,
she came to him and said in a tone in which, by this time, weariness and disgust had taken
the place of indignation:--

"You were absurdly mistaken in thinking that Miss Roberts was trying to flirt."

"Bless your dear, jealous heart!" interrupted Hunt laughingly, with an air of patronizing affection.
"I'd no idea you minded it so much. There, there! Let's not allude to this matter again. No,
no! not another word!" he gayly insisted, putting his hand over her mouth as she was about
to make another effort to be heard.

He was determined not to hear anything, and she had to leave it so. It was with surprise that
she observed how indifferently she finally acquiesced in being so cruelly misunderstood by
him. In the deadened state of her feelings, she was not then able to appreciate the entire
change in the nature of her sentiments which that indifference showed. Love, though rooted
in the past, depends upon the surrounding atmosphere for the breath of continued life, and
he had surrounded her with the stifling vapors of disgust until her love had succumbed and
withered. She found that his exhibitions of conceit and insipidity did not affect her in the
same way as before. Her sensations were no longer sharp and poignant, but chiefly a dull shame
and sense of disgrace that she had loved him. She met his attentions with a coldly passive
manner, which gave him the liveliest satisfaction. The cure was succeeding past all expectation;
but he had about time for one more stroke, which would make a sure thing of it. He prepared
the way by dropping hints that he had been writing some verses of late; and finally, with the
evident idea that she would be flattered, gave out that his favorite theme was her own charms,
and that she might, perhaps, before long receive some tributes from his muse. Her protests
he laughed away as the affectations of modesty.

Now Hunt had never actually written a line of verse in his life, and had no intention of beginning.
He was simply preparing a grand move. From the poet's corner of rural newspapers, and from
comic collections, he clipped several specimens of the crudest sort of sentimental trash in
rhyme. These he took to the local newspaper, and arranged for their insertion at double advertising
rates. A few days later, he bustled into the parlor, smirking in his most odious manner, and,
coming up to Annie, thrust an open newspaper before her, marked in one corner to call attention
to several stanzas

     "Written for the 'Express.' To A--E G----D."

With sinking of heart she took the paper, after ineffectually trying to refuse it, and Hunt
sat down before her with a supremely complacent expression, to await her verdict. With a faint
hope that the verses might prove tolerable, she glanced down the lines. It is enough to say
that they were the very worst which Hunt, after great industry, had been able to find; and
there he was waiting, just the other side the paper, in a glow of expectant vanity, to receive
her acknowledgments.

"Well, what do you think of it? You need n't try to hide your blushes. You deserve every word
of it, you know, Miss Modesty," he said gayly.

"It's very nice," replied Annie, making a desperate effort.

"I thought you 'd like it," he said, with self-satisfied assurance. "It's queer that a fellow
can't lay on the praise too thick to please a woman. By the way, I sent around a copy to Miss
Roberts, signed with my initials. I thought you 'd like to have her see it."

This last remark he called out after her as she was leaving the room, and he was not mistaken
in fancying that it would complete her demoralization. During the next week or two he several
times brought her copies of the local paper containing equally execrable effusions, till finally
she mustered courage to tell him that she would rather he would not publish any more verses
about her. He seemed rather hurt at this, but respected her feelings, and after that she used
to find, hid in her books and music, manuscript sonnets which he had laboriously copied out
of his comic collections. It was considerable trouble, but on the whole he was inclined to
think it paid, and it did, especially when he culminated by fitting music to several of the
most mawkish effusions, and insisting on her playing and singing them to him. Out the Russians sprang,
and cut the traces through, and having in this way speedily managed to disencumber their steeds of the dead one,
they immediately began the pursuit again. We waited for them to get near again, then fired
in quick succession and brought down their other horses, in spite of the bullets which the Russians
rained upon us, and which, fortunately, struck none who were in the sledge. Baffled in their pursuit,
we saw our enemies standing knee-deep in the snow watching us as
we dashed along. Had she happened on one of these occasions to turn
a moment before she did, the resulting tableau would have been worth seeing.

Hunt had determined to both crown and crucially test the triumph of Potts's cure in Annie's
case by formally offering himself to her. He calculated of course that she was now certain
to reject him, and that was a satisfaction which he thought he fairly owed her. She would feel
better for it, he argued, and be more absolutely sure not to regard herself as in any sense
jilted, and that would make his conscience clearer. Yes, she should certainly have his scalp
to hang at her girdle, for he believed, as many do, that next to having a man's heart a woman
enjoys having his scalp, while many prefer it. Six weeks ago he would have been horrified at
the audacity of the idea. His utmost ambition then was to break a little the force of her disappointment
at his departure. But the unexpected fortune that had attended his efforts had advanced his
standard of success, until nothing would now satisfy him but to pop the question and be refused.

And still, as the day approached which he had set for the desperate venture, he began to get
very nervous. He thought he had a sure thing if ever a fellow had, but women were so cursedly
unaccountable. Supposing she should take it into her head to accept him! No logic could take
account of a woman's whimsies. Then what a pretty fix he would have got himself into, just
by a foolhardy freak! But there was a strain of Norse blood in Hunt, and in spite of occasional
touches of ague, the risk of the scheme had in itself a certain fascination for him. And yet
he could n't help wishing he had carried out a dozen desperate devices for disgusting her with
him, which at the time had seemed to him too gross to be safe from suspicion.

The trouble was that since he loved her no more he had lost the insight which love only gives
into the feelings of another. Then her every touch and look and word was eloquent to his senses
as to the precise state of her feeling toward him, but now he was dull and insensitive to such
direct intuition. He could not longer feel, but could only argue as to how she might be minded
toward him, and this it was which caused him so much trepidation, in spite of so many reasons
why he should be confident of the result. Argument as to another's feelings is such a wretched
substitute for the intuition of sympathy.

Finally, on the evening before the day on which he was to offer himself, the last of his stay
at the Giffords', he got into such a panic that, determined to clinch the assurance of his
safety, he asked her to play a game of cards, and then managed that she should see him cheat
two or three times. The recollection of the cold disgust on her face as he bade her good-evening
was so reassuring that he went to bed and slept like a child, in the implicit confidence that
four horses could n't drag that girl into an engagement with him the next day.

It was not till the latter part of the afternoon that he could catch her alone long enough
to transact his little business with her. Yes; at thirty. At twenty, when one is something of a poet--No:
it is sufficient to see a grey pongee skirt! At fifty, when one is a philosopher--No:
it is enough to perceive a soul! I had done both; I had seen the skirt;
I had perceived the soul! Of course she could reject it, but
fastidious persons do not like to have unpleasant objects put on their plates, even if they
have not necessarily to eat them. But her special reason was that the scene would freshly bring
up and emphasize the whole wretched history of her former infatuation and its miserable ending,--an
experience every thought of which was full of shame and strong desire for the cleansing of
forgetfulness. He finally cornered her in the parlor alone. As she saw him approaching and
realized that there was no escape, she turned and faced him with her small figure drawn to
its full height, compressed lips, pale face, and eyes that plainly said, "Now have it over
with as soon as possible." One hand resting on the table was clenched over a book. The other,
hanging by her side, tightly grasped a handkerchief.

"Do you know I 've been trying to get a chance to speak with you alone all day?" he said.

"Have you?" she replied in a perfectly inexpressive tone.

"Can't you guess what I wanted to say?"

"I 'm not good at conundrums."

"I see you will not help me," he went on, and then added quickly, "it's a short story; will
you be my wife?"

As he said the words, he felt as the lion-tamer does when he puts his head in the lion's jaws.
He expects to take it out again, but if the lion should take a notion--His suspense was, however,
of the shortest possible duration, for instantly, like a reviving sprinkle on a fainting face,
the words fell on his ear:--

"I thank you for the honor, but I 'm sure we are not suited."

Annie had conned her answer on many a sleepless pillow, and had it by heart. It came so glibly,
although in such a constrained and agitated voice, that he instantly knew it must have been
long cut and dried. 

Yes; at thirty. At twenty, when one is something of a poet--No: it is sufficient to see a grey pongee
skirt! At fifty, when one is a philosopher--No: it is enough to perceive
a soul!

I had done both; I had seen the skirt; I had perceived the soul! The sweet familiarity of each detail in the petite figure
before him was impressing his mind as never before, now that he had achieved his purpose of
putting it beyond the possibility of his own possession. The little hands he had held so often
in the old days, conning each curve and dimple, reckoning them more his hands than were his
own, and far more dearly so; the wavy hair he had kissed so fondly and delighted to touch;
the deep dark eyes under their long lashes, like forest lakes seen through environing thickets,
eyes that he had found his home in through so long and happy a time,-- why, they were his!
Of course he had never meant to really forfeit them, to lose them, and let them go to anybody
else. The idea was preposterous,--was laughable. It was indeed the first time it had occurred
to him in that light. He had only thought of her as losing him; scarcely at all of himself
as losing her. During the whole time he had been putting himself in her place so constantly
that he had failed sufficiently to fully canvass the situation from his own point of view.
Wholly absorbed in estranging her from him, he had done nothing to estrange himself from her.

It was rather with astonishment and even an appreciation of the absurd, than any serious apprehension,
that he now suddenly saw how he had stultified himself, and come near doing himself a fatal
injury. For knowing that her present estrangement was wholly his work, it did not occur to
him but that he could undo it as easily as he had done it. A word would serve the purpose and
make it all right again. Indeed, his revulsion of feeling so altered the aspect of everything
that he quite forgot that any explanation at all was necessary, and, after gazing at her for
a few moments while his eyes, wet with a tenderness new and deliciously sweet, roved fondly
from her head to her little slipper, doating on each feature, he just put out his arms to take
her with some old familiar phrase of love on his lips. 

You will one day be rich, for your prospects are "healthy," Yet as
Beauty and Riches do not make up Life, Why, were you as lovely as
Venus, as wealthy As Croesus I wouldn't have you for my wife.

Are you free altogether from blame in the matter-- I'm resolved to
be frank, so it's useless to frown-- Have you not had a share in the
mischievous chatter Which makes our "engagement" the talk of the town?

When some eager, impertinent person hereafter Shall inquire of its
truth, and shall ask, "Is it so?"

reat
distance, his motives, "and I thought it was kind to cure you of your love for me by pretending
to be a fool. I think I must have been crazy, don't you?" and he smiled in a dazed, deprecating
way.

Her face from being very pale began to flush. First a red spot started out in either cheek;
then they spread till they covered the cheeks; next her forehead took a roseate hue, and down
her neck the tide of color rushed, and she stood there before him a glowing statue of outraged
womanhood, while in the midst her eyes sparkled with scorn.

"You wanted to cure me," she said at last, in slow, concentrated tones, "and you have succeeded.
You have insulted me as no woman was ever insulted before."

She paused as if to control herself; for her voice trembled with the last words. She shivered,
and her bosom heaved once or twice convulsively. Her features quivered; scorching tears of
shame rushed to her eyes, and she burst out hysterically:--

"For pity's sake never let me see you again!"

And then he found himself alone.

