CHRISTIANITY AS MYSTICAL FACT AND THE MYSTERIES OF ANTIQUITY

BY

DR. RUDOLF STEINER AUTHOR OF "MYSTICS OF THE RENAISSANCE," "THE GATES OF KNOWLEDGE," ETC.

THIRD EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED

EDITED BY H. COLLISON

THE AUTHORIZED ENGLISH TRANSLATION

G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS NEW YORK AND LONDON The Knickerbocker Press 1914

COPYRIGHT, 1914 BY H. COLLISON

The copyrights, the publishing rights, and the editorial responsibility for the translations
of the works of Rudolf Steiner, Ph.D., with the exception of those already published under
the editorial supervision of Mr. Max Gysi, are now vested in Mr. Harry Collison, M.A., Oxon.

The Knickerbocker Press, New York

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION

Christianity as Mystical Fact was the title given by the author to this work, when, eight years
ago, he gathered into it the substance of lectures delivered by him in 1902. The title indicated
the special character of the book. In it the attempt was made, not merely to represent historically
the mystical content of Christianity, but to describe the origin of Christianity from the standpoint
of mystical contemplation. Underlying this intention was the thought that at the genesis of
Christianity mystical facts were at work which can only be perceived by such contemplation.

It is only the book itself which can make clear that by "mystical" its author does not imply
a conception which relies more on vague feelings than on "strictly scientific statements."
It is true that "mysticism" is at present widely understood in the former sense, and hence
it is declared by many to be a sphere of the human soul-life with which "true science" can
have nothing to do. In this book the word "mysticism" is used in the sense of the representation
of a spiritual fact, which can only be recognised in its true nature when the knowledge of
it is derived from the sources of spiritual life itself. If the kind of knowledge drawn from
such sources is rejected, the reader will not be in a position to judge of the contents of
this book. Only one who allows that the same clearness may exist in mysticism as in a true
representation of the facts of natural science, will be ready to admit that the content of
Christianity as mysticism may also be mystically described. For it is not only a question of
the contents of the book, but first and foremost of the methods of knowledge by means of which
the statements in it are made.

Many there are in the present day who have a most violent dislike to such methods, which are
regarded as conflicting with the ways of true science. During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration.
Food was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so well shelled
by our artillery that their transport could not come out; but they
shared their food with me.

They also dressed
my wound with the greatest care, and in these way made me as comfortable
as possible. Being able to speak a little german, i talked to the other
wounded, and found that their papers also published dreadful tales
of our treatment of prisoners, which i am glad to say i was able to
refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, a british OFFICER.

December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last
sentences.

Here
is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged 18) of
the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed in
the Times of November 19, 1914: we are treated very well indeed here.

We have good beds and fires in
the rooms, three good meals a day, and a french soldier for a servant,
and this morning I had a splendid hot bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a. M. And 9.45 p. M., and lights out
at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard to walk about in. We have a
canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything we want.

Prison fare is very good— new rolls and coffee and fresh butter. Not bad!
i had a very decent guard when i was coming up on the train; he got
me food, and when one man tried to get in to attack them i conversed
privately and without being overheard.

With but one exception no english-speaking british prisoner had any complaint to make, and a number of
the british prisoners eagerly expressed to me their appreciation of honour to come back here.”
the boy went home to Scotland and remained by his mother’ s side for
about three weeks till her death, when, true to his word, he returned
to Germany. The writer of“ under the Clock” considers that“ well-attested”
stories of this kind should be given publicity. It is even more
necessary to examine the“ attestation” of the other kinds of stories,
for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand is apt to create
supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ. I pass on now to a report made by a united States
official. The american Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November
16, 1914:“ on Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant, i visited the
military concentration camp near Merseburg, where some 10,000 utterances
of war are interned.

The object of my visit was to investigate
the claim of a french prisoner that he is an american subject.

The result of my observations regarding the welfare and humane treatment
of the prisoners at large was a surprise to me.... separated by nationality,
these prisoners are housed in wooden buildings, well built, ventilated
and heated.... they sleep upon straw mattresses in well-warmed quarters,
and, as far as i could judge, are as well or better housed than labourers
upon public works in the united States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee
and bread.

Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper
they are given bread and coffee. I was informed that many of the prisoners
have some money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever else they
may wish to eat.

If i may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there is evidence in support of
this statement.

The
prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful, many of them engaging
in games and other pastimes.” the diet described must be frightfully monotonous.
Feeding has throughout been one of the german difficulties.“ Germany
claims to hold 433,000 prisoners of war,” wrote an anonymous american
journalist (probably in November, 1914);“ the housing and feeding
of so great a number must be a tremendous strain upon resources drained
by the necessities of war.” the numbers must now exceed two million.

The Press article referred to [misc.

                                        No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness
of the men (they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz
which he visited. (see, however, the further official reports quoted
below at p. 9).

  

But the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side.“ one
hears of battles in which no quarter is granted.

There are stories of one side or the other refusing an armistice to
permit the other to gather its wounded. Each side is desperately determined
to win, and neither is counting the cost.

                                                             

So men must rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.” the
monotony in this case seems to have been varied by fights between
the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that
the others had not done their part in the war.

We need not be contemptuous about that. The monotony of the prisoners’
life must tend to produce the maximum degree of mutual friction. There
is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner of war. To be forced to
remain, day and night, for months and years in idleness, with a crowd of others,
not of one’ s own choice is, i believe, one of the psychological
factors which make internment (especially to many civilians) decidedly
worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE and PACKAGES. My next document illustrates
the fact that each side makes similar complaints about the other. Telegram
received by american Embassy, London, December 23, 1914, 22nd from
Berlin Embassy:“ foreign Office reports receiving many complaints
that money and packages sent german military and civilian prisoners
in enemy countries from Germany do not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward
german foreign Office whether money and other postal matter will
be delivered to such prisoners promptly and intact.— BRYAN, Washington.”
there is no doubt that many letters and parcels have not reached german
prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.)
in spite of this, i have no doubt that the british authorities have
done their best to expedite delivery.

   

  

 I would suggest that this is probably the case on the other
       side, too. We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements
in support of this view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels
in Germany has been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M.
P. (Daily Mail, November 8, 1916, and Reprint): i did not approach this
subject quite“ new to the game.” i had already visited general post
offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere, and had seen thousands,
literally thousands, of food parcels intended for our prisoners of
war in Germany falling to bits and incapable of being forwarded for
want of skilled packing.

  

   

  
The sight was enough to make angels weep. To think that so much self-sacrifice
had been exercised in humble homes to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread,
broken cigarettes, and what not, in order that these should reach
son or brother or sweetheart in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit
by loving hands, that in the first rough and tumble of the post the
paper burst, the string came undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels
fell in an inextricable jumble upon the floor.

There
will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take opportunities
for mean thefts.

We have all had experience of that during this
war, and the following cutting from the daily News of October 5, 1915,
may be given in illustration: in a letter of thanks to the secretary
of the committee of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen, formed for
the purpose of sending comforts to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:
i am extremely touched by the extraordinary generosity and kindness
of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen.

 

  I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted for
this most handsome contribution.

   

  

 Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid
some of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition. If there are, alas,
not a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely
to be fewer who will steal from their enemies. Speaking generally,
however, the delivery of parcels on both sides soon became commendably
regular.

       The care shown on the german side is warmly praised by Captain
Gilbert Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate good deeds even
after enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from others.
The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians.

       

In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes: i was very much
impressed with the fair and systematic handling of our parcels, letters
and money; even letters and postcards which arrived for me after i
had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and sent up.

       

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after i had left
was even returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the
pressing need of the german War Loan.— (daily News, January 25, 1918.)
an acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke
to me to the same effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had
become quite shattered in transit (p. P. 7).

The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as he said, the temptation
to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs must have been great. My informant also
spoke of the very thorough inoculation against disease. Altdamm. On December
31, 1914, Mr. Damm reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp at Altdamm near Stettin.
The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp at
Stargard on which he had reported previously.“ it appears to me
that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners of war as humanely
as possible in the two camps i visited. Dry and warm shelter is provided,
the food is simple and perhaps monotonous, but of good material and well
prepared, british soldiers are called upon to do only their share in
fatigue work.... almost far as i could ascertain, after inquiry of
a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping of either incoming
or outgoing correspondence.... the camp at Döberitz is in a location,
and the barracks are new and of a permanent character.... they are
at least as good as those used by the Germans at present in the same
neighbourhood.

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but
there were no general complaints, except with regard to the german character
of the food— and those were the exact counterparts of complaints made
to me by german prisoners in England.” i have italicised the last
clause as his it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat
important one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says: until
two weeks ago the Russians and english were, in cases, housed together—
a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account of
vermin.

The races have now been separated. The men all stated that they had the
two blankets and the other requisites provided in the german rules,
and i heard but one complaint about overcrowding.

Most of the english and french receive clothes from home.

All the prisoners who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated that this
was carried out according to the rules. No complaints whatever were
made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned officers, or
the general government of the camp. The food was the source of the few
real complaints that could be heard, although at least half of the
men spoken to admitted that it was quite as good as could possibly
be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea
that everything that could reasonably be expected was done for the men by the authorities
in charge. Three poor CAMPS.

Mr. Jackson’ s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle a/ d Saale are the most unfavourable.
They were all small officers’ camps, Burg containing 75, Magdeburg
30, Halle 50 british officers. There were a few orderlies at each camp.
The chief points are inadequate ventilation, inadequate service for
officers and, in the first two, the fact that living rooms were used
for all purposes, there being no special mess or recreation rooms.

There seemed, however, to be no discrimination against the british. GŒTTINGEN.
Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.“
the Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done everything possible to make
this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great work.

The
only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course,
is not under the control of the Commandant, as he is limited to an
expenditure of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.“ everything
was in the most beautiful order.

There was a very fine steam laundry and drying room, bath rooms,
with hot and cold showers, and the closets, etc., are in a very good
condition and scientifically built.

There is running water and electricity in the camp. A french barrister of
Arras, named léon Paillet, who was working with the french red Cross
and who, for some reason or other, has been made a prisoner, has
done marvellous work in organising libraries, etc.“ i am pleased
to say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen have, from the
first, taken an interest in this camp, and Professor Stange has done
much in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y. M. C. A. Building, erected through the efforts of Mr. A. 
C. Harte, who for a number of years has been working with the Y. M.
C. A. In India, will be a great help to the men in the camp.“ at the
opening ceremonies there were speeches by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte,
and Professor Stange, and then each speech was delivered in english
and french by prisoners.

These were followed by short speeches by french, english, and Belgian
prisoners.

Everywhere came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing
society, followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.” Dr. Ohnesorg
reported further on April 22.

At that time there were
6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were british. He warmly commends the steam
laundry, the steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital.“ a spirit
of contentment pervaded the camp.

The british prisoners were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal, consisting of a vegetable soup,
which was very palatable and, i should say, nourishing.... the citizens of Göttingen
have taken a great interest in the camp, and some of them, notably
Professor Stange, of the University, have given a great deal of their
time to the welfare of prisoners and the formation of classes for
study amongst them.” GERMAN HELP for PRISONERS.

The interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare
of prisoners of war is little recognised in this country.

The Berlin Committee (of which more will be said later) has received
considerable support. At the end of June, 1916, a meeting in support
of its work was held at the house of Prince Lichnowsky, that Ambassador
in London, who returned specially from the front to preside. The Bishop
of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many notable men
and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection of 8,000
marks (about£ 400) was made.

COLOGNE. Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals
in which wounded british prisoners are lying. He reports as follows:
every institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered
hospitals that little need be said of their employment or management.

They are provided with all the machinery and
paraphernalia usual to surgical work on a large scale, contain all standard
and necessary conveniences and fittings, afford to patients a maximum of
protection in the matter of sanitation, quiet and relief from preventable
irritation, and are conducted in a thoroughly scientific, professional
and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded british prisoners are hereunto annexed. I personally spoke to every one
of these men, and with February 23, 1915, Sir Edward grey wrote to Mr. Page (the
american Ambassador in London) complaining that no definite replies
to his questions were forthcoming.“ his Majesty’ s Government,” he
continues,“ have only unofficial information and rumours on the subject
to guide them, which they trust do not accurately represent the facts.”
the“ unofficial information and rumours” had, however, attained wide
publicity, and obtained still more later.

The german authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection of detention
camps and consideration of complaints. The reports now to be cited were
made after this date. [Misc. 11 (1915)]. I propose to give examples
of so all the earlier reports, for it was in the earlier stages of
the war that there was most difficulty then in providing accommodation
for prisoners.

We ought not to forget that the earliest
reports on our own camps which the british Government have published
begin with February, 1916. [2] DŒBERITZ.

On
March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large camp
with between three and four thousand british prisoners.“ so far as
i could ascertain, sanitary arrangements are good, and the health
of the men is carefully looked after.” RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to by the
german Government, and on many of me he threw him off the train. I am afraid
i am up of the firing line until the war ends (worse luck). I am in no
danger of being shot unless i try to bolt, which i shan’ t do.

I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have
me shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him.

The next
time i saw him he had been bandaged up— he was shot through the shoulder—
and he dashed back and shook me by the hand and shouted,“ mein Freund,
mein Freund.” on November 25 other letters appeared in the Times.

One was from a cavalry subaltern in a german fortress: you ask about money;
they provide lights and firing and all the men’ s food. The officers
get 16s. A week and buy their own. Quite sufficient, as it is cheap.

I have
learnt german fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for the men, though, i am afraid,
tant mal que bien.

One of the officials here used to be a professor, and is very kind trying to teach
us. Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs.
We have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any
public news of any kind from England; people having been stupid trying
to smuggle letters in cakes and things, and it only makes trouble
for everyone.

A Captain writes: for dinner at 1 p. M. We are given soup, meat and
vegetables.... Supper takes place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea,
sausages or meat and potatoes.... we receive£ 5 a month as pay, of
which 1s.

6d.
Is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which we
can buy everything we want,... so there is no need to send me anything
at all, except perhaps those small 7d.

Editions of novels. An english lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich: i must tell you i had permission
to visit a wounded english officer, a cousin, and i think it would
reassure many people at home to know how warmly he speaks of the great
kindness that has been shown him now for five months, as well as the
skill and attention of the doctors.— (Times, March 17, 1915.) here,
too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J.  E.  P. Harvey, an officer
of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to the royal flying Corps:
i met one of the pilots of the german machines that had attacked us.

He could speak english well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight. I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he had
to land quite close to where i landed.

He had a bullet through his radiator and petrol tank, but neither
he nor his observer was touched.

I met two german officers that knew several people that i knew, and
they were most awfully kind to me.

They
gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and i
was treated like an honoured guest.

I then came by train the next day to Mainz, where i was confined in a room by myself
for two days.

I have now been moved into a general room with eight other English officers,
where we sleep and eat.

We are treated very well, and play hockey and tennis in the prison
yard.— (News of the World, February 27, 1916.) miss Colenso gives the following
account, which appeared in the daily News of June 28, 1918: a minister
friend of mine told me the story of a young scottish boy of his acquaintance,
now a military prisoner in Germany— i forget for the moment in which
camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’
s serious illness and the doctor’ s verdict that she could only live
a few weeks.

The german Commandant, finding the boy in great distress, asked him
what was the matter, and on learning the cause of his grief, said:“
would you like to go home to your mother?” the boy sprang up, exclaiming
indignantly,“ how can you mock me when you know it is impossible?”“
but you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.“ i will pay your return
fare on condition that you give me your word for the care and attention
given them.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21 deaths
have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital no. Vi.
Since the war began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals is correspondingly
low. The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable
in view of the many grave injuries treated.

In closing i may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients and former
certain french patients with whom i spoke expressed, likewise, their appreciation for the care
and attention given them.
 Growth and decay no longer affect it. One may say
much about the Eternal, but words of one who has not been through Hades are "mere sound and
smoke." The initiates have a new conception of life and death. Now for the first time do they
feel they have the right to speak about immortality. They know that one who speaks of it without
having been initiated talks of something which he does not understand. The uninitiated attribute
immortality only to something which is subject to the laws of growth and decay. The Mystics,
however, did not merely desire to gain the conviction that the kernel of life is eternal. According
to the view of the Mysteries, such a conviction would be quite valueless, for this view holds
that the Eternal is not present as a living reality in the uninitiated. If such an one spoke
of the Eternal, he would be speaking of something non-existent. It is rather the Eternal itself
that the Mystics are seeking. They have first to awaken the Eternal within them, then they
can speak of it. Hence the hard saying of Plato is quite real to them, that the uninitiated
sinks into the mire, and that only one who has passed through the mystical life enters eternity.
It is only in this sense that the words in the fragment of Sophocles can be understood: "Thrice-blessed
are the initiated who come to the realm of the shades. They alone have life there. For others
there is only misery and hardship."

Is one therefore not describing dangers when speaking of the Mysteries? Is it not robbing a
man of happiness and of the best part of his life to take him to the portals of the nether-world?
Terrible is the responsibility incurred by such an act. And yet ought we to refuse that responsibility?
These were the questions which the initiate had to put to himself. He was of opinion that his
knowledge bore the same relation to the soul of the people as light does to darkness. But innocent
happiness dwells in that darkness, and the Mystics were of opinion that that happiness should
not be sacrilegiously interfered with. For what would have happened in the first place if the
Mystic had betrayed his secret? He would have uttered words and only words. The feelings and
emotions which would have evoked the spirit from the words would have been absent. To do this
preparation, exercises, tests, and a complete change in the life of sense were necessary. Without
this the hearer would have been hurled into emptiness and nothingness. He would have been deprived
of what constituted his happiness, without receiving anything in exchange. One may also say
that one could take nothing away from him, for mere words would change nothing in his life
of feeling. He would only have been able to feel and experience reality through his senses.
Nothing but a terrible misgiving, fatal to life, would be given him. This could only be construed
as a crime.

The wisdom of the Mysteries is like a hothouse plant, which must be cultivated and fostered
in seclusion. Any one bringing it into the atmosphere of everyday ideas brings it into air
in which it cannot flourish. It withers away to nothing before the caustic verdict of modern
science and logic. Let us therefore divest ourselves for a time of the education we gained
through the microscope and telescope and the habit of thought derived from natural science,
and let us cleanse our clumsy hands, which have been too busy with dissecting and experimenting,
in order that we may enter the pure temple of the Mysteries. For this a candid and unbiassed
attitude of mind is necessary.

The important point for the Mystic is at first the frame of mind in which he approaches that
which to him is the highest, the answers to the riddles of existence. Just in our day, when
only gross physical science is recognised as containing truth, it is difficult to believe that
in the highest things we depend upon the key-note of the soul. Knowledge thereby becomes an
intimate personal concern. But this is what it really is to the Mystic. Tell some one the solution
of the riddle of the universe! Give it him ready-made! The Mystic will find it to be nothing
but empty sound, if the personality does not meet the solution half-way in the right manner.
The solution in itself is nothing; it vanishes if the necessary feeling is not kindled at its
contact. A divinity approaches you. It is either everything or nothing. Nothing, if you meet
it in the frame of mind with which you confront everyday matters. Everything, if you are prepared,
and attuned to the meeting. What the Divinity is in itself is a matter which does not affect
you; the important point for you is whether it leaves you as it found you or makes another
man of you. But this depends entirely on yourself. You must have been prepared by a special
education, by a development of the inmost forces of your personality for the work of kindling
and releasing what a divinity is able to kindle and release in you. What is brought to you
depends on the reception you give to it.

Plutarch has told us about this education, and of the greeting which the Mystic offers the
divinity approaching him; "For the god, as it were, greets each one who approaches him, with
the words, 'Know thyself,' which is surely no worse than the ordinary greeting, 'Welcome.'
Then we answer the divinity in the words, 'Thou art,' and thus we affirm that the true, primordial,
and only adequate greeting for him is to declare that he is. In that existence we really have
no part here, for every mortal being, situated between birth and destruction, merely manifests
an appearance, a feeble and uncertain image of itself. If we try to grasp it with our understanding,
it is as when water is tightly compressed and runs over merely through the pressure, spoiling
what it touches. For the understanding, pursuing a too definite conception of each being that
is subject to accidents and change, loses its way, now in the origin of the being, now in its
destruction, and is unable to apprehend anything lasting or really existing. For, as Heraclitus
says, we cannot swim twice in the same wave, neither can we lay hold of a mortal being twice
in the same state, for, through the violence and rapidity of movement, it is destroyed and
recomposed; it comes into being and again decays; it comes and goes. Therefore, that which
is becoming can neither attain real existence, because growth neither ceases nor pauses. Change
begins in the germ, and forms an embryo; then there appears a child, then a youth, a man, and
an old man; the first beginnings and successive ages are continually annulled by the ensuing
ones. Hence it is ridiculous to fear one death, when we have already died in so many ways,
and are still dying. For, as Heraclitus says, not only is the death of fire the birth of air,
and the death of air the birth of water, but the same change may be still more plainly seen
in man. The strong man dies when he becomes old, the youth when he becomes a man, the boy on
becoming a youth, and the child on becoming a boy. What existed yesterday dies to-day, what
is here to-day will die to-morrow. Nothing endures or is a unity, but we become many things,
whilst matter wanders around one image, one common form. For if we were always the same, how
could we take pleasure in things which formerly did not please us, how could we love and hate,
admire and blame opposite things, how could we speak differently and give ourselves up to different
passions, unless we were endowed with a different shape, form, and different senses? For no
one can rightly come into a different state without change, and one who is changed is no longer
the same; but if he is not the same, he no longer exists and is changed from what he was, becoming
something else. Sense-perception only led us astray, because we do not know real being, and
mistook for it that which is only an appearance."[2]

Plutarch often describes himself as an initiate. What he portrays here is a condition of the
life of the Mystic. Man acquires a kind of wisdom by means of which his spirit sees through
the illusive character of sense-life. What the senses regard as being, or reality, is plunged
into the stream of "becoming"; and man is subject to the same conditions in this respect as
all other things in the world. Before the eyes of his spirit he himself dissolves, the sum-total
of his being is broken up into parts, into fleeting phenomena. Birth and death lose their distinctive
meaning, and become moments of appearing and disappearing, just as much as any other happenings
in the world. The Highest cannot be found in the connection between development and decay.
It can only be sought in what is really abiding, in what looks back to the past and forward
to the future.

To find that which looks (i.e. the spirit) backwards and forwards is the first stage of knowledge.
This is the spirit, which is manifesting in and through the physical. It has nothing to do
with physical growth. It does not come into being and again decay as do sense-phenomena. One
who lives entirely in the world of sense carries the spirit latent within him. One who has
pierced through the illusion of the world of sense has the spirit within him as a manifest
reality. The man who attains to this insight has developed a new principle within him. Something
has happened within him as in a plant when it adds a coloured flower to its green leaves. It
is true the forces causing the flower to grow were already latent in the plant before the blossom
appeared, but they only became effective when this took place. Divine, spiritual forces are
latent in the man who lives merely through his senses, but they only become a manifest reality
in the initiate. Such is the transformation which takes place in the Mystic. By his development
he has added a new element to the world. The world of sense made him a human being endowed
with senses, and then left him to himself. Nature had thus fulfilled her mission. What she
is able to do with the powers operative in man is exhausted; not so the forces themselves.
They lie as though spellbound in the merely natural man and await their release. They cannot
release themselves. They fade away to nothing unless man seizes upon them and develops them,
unless he calls into actual being what is latent within him.

Nature evolves from the imperfect to the perfect. She leads beings, through a long series of
stages, from inanimate matter, through all living forms up to physical man. Man looks around
and finds himself a changing being with physical reality, but he also perceives within him
the forces from which the physical reality arose. These forces are not what change, for they
have given birth to the changing world. They are within man as a sign that there is more life
within him than he can physically perceive. These new organizations were symptomatic of injustice but
otherwise unimportant. And the fortunes of town-life have ever depended upon the vicissitudes of
trade and commerce. So the reviving commerce of the later middle ages between
Europe and the East meant the growth of cities and betokened an advance
in civilization.

[sidenote: Revival of Trade with the East] Trade between Europe and
Asia, which had been a feature of the antique world of Greeks and
Romans, had been very nearly destroyed by the barbarian invasions
of the fifth century and by subsequent conflicts between Mohammedans
and Christians, so that during several centuries the old trade-routes
were traveled only by a few Jews and with the Syrians.

It was useful to attempt to breed fine cattle when all were herded together.
The breed deteriorated, and both cattle and sheep were undersized
and poor. A full-grown ox was hardly larger than a good-sized calf
of the present time.

Ii, ch xviii.] and slowly suffering diminution of prestige through
royal interference.

[sidenote: Life in the Towns] in the year 1500 the european towns displayed
little uniformity in government or in the amount of liberty they possessed.
Some were petty republics subject only in a very vague way to an extraneous
potentate; some merely paid annual tribute to a lord; some were administered
by officers of a king or feudal magnate; others were controlled by
oligarchical commercial associations.

But of the general
appearance and life of sixteenth-century towns, it is possible to
secure a more uniform notion. It must be borne in mind that the towns
were comparatively small, for the great bulk of people still lived
in the country. A town of 5000 inhabitants was then accounted large;
and even the largest places, like Nuremberg, Strassburg, London, Paris,
and Bruges, would have been only small cities in our eyes.

The approach to
an ordinary city of the time lay through suburbs, farms, and garden-plots,
for the townsman still supplemented industry with small-scale agriculture.

Usually the town itself was inclosed by strong walls, and admission was
to be gained only by passing through the gates, where one might be accosted
by soldiers and forced to pay toll.

Inside the walls were clustered houses of every description. [sidenote: rural Isolation and Conservatism]
at other times there was little to disturb the monotony of village
life and little to remind it of the outside world, except when a gossiping
peddler chanced along, or when the squire rode away to court or to war. Intercourse
with other villages was unnecessary, unless there were no blacksmith
or miller on the spot.

The roads were poor and in wet weather impassable. Travel was largely on
horseback, and what few commodities were carried from place to place were
transported by pack-horses. Only a few old soldiers, and possibly
a priest, had traveled very much; they were the only geographies
and the only books of travel which the village possessed, for few
peasants could read or write.

Self-sufficient and secluded from the outer world, the rural village
went on treasuring its traditions, keeping its old customs, century after
century. The country instinctively distrusted all novelties; it always preferred
old ways to new; it was heartily conservative.

Country-folk did not discover America. It was the enterprise of the
cities, with their growing industries and commerce, which brought about
the commercial Revolution; and to the development of commerce, industry,
and the towns, we now must turn our attention. TOWNS on the EVE of
the commercial REVOLUTION [sidenote: Trade and the Towns] except
for the wealthy italian city-states and a few other cities which traced
their history back to Roman times, most european towns, it must be
remembered, dated only from the later middle ages.

At first there was little excuse for their existence except to sell
to farmers salt, fish, iron, and a few plows.

But with the
increase of commerce, which, as we shall see, especially marked the
thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries, more merchants traveled
through the country, ways of spending money multiplied, and the little
agricultural villages learned to look on the town as the place to
buy not only luxuries but such tools, clothing, and shoes as could
be manufactured more conveniently by skillful town artisans than by
clumsy rustics.

The towns, moreover, became exchanges where surplus farm products could be marketed, where wine could be bartered
for wool, or wheat for flax. And as the towns grew in size, the prosperous citizens proved
to be the best customers for foreign luxuries, and foreign trade grew apace. Burdensome restrictions
were laid upon the stranger who attempted to utilize the advantages of the market without sharing the expense
of maintenance. No goods were allowed to be carried away from the city if the townsmen wished to
buy; and a tax, called in France the octroi, was levied on goods brought
into the town. [footnote: the octroi is still collected in Paris.]
moreover, a conviction prevailed that the gild was morally bound
to enforce honest straightforward methods of business; and the "wardens"
appointed by the gild to supervise the market endeavored to prevent,
as dishonest practices, "forestalling"

(buying outside of the regular market), "engrossing" (cornering the market), [footnote: the idea that "combinations
in restraint of trade" are wrong quite possibly goes back to this abhorrence of engrossing.] and "regrating"
(retailing at higher than market price). The dishonest green grocer was not allowed to use a
peck-measure with false bottom, for weighing and measuring were done by officials. Cheats were fined heavily
and, if they persisted in their evil ways, they might be expelled from the gild. These merchant
gilds, with their social, protective, and regulative functions, had
first begun to be important in the eleventh century.

In England, where their growth was most rapid, 82 out of the total
of 102 towns had merchant gilds by the end of the thirteenth century.

[footnote: several important places, such as London, Colchester,
and Norwich, belonged to the small minority without merchant gilds.]
on the Continent many towns, especially in Germany, had quite different
arrangements, and where merchant gilds existed, they were often exclusive
and selfish groups of merchants in a single branch of business.

[sidenote: Decline of Merchant Guilds] with the
expansion of trade and industry in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the rule of the old merchant
gilds, instead of keeping pace with the times, became oppressive,
limited, or merely nominal.

Where the merchant gilds became oppressive oligarchical associations,
as they did in Germany and elsewhere on the Continent, they lost
their power by the revolt of the more democratic "craft gilds." in
England specialized control of industry and trade by craft gilds,
journeymen's gilds, and dealers'associations gradually took the place
of the general supervision of the older merchant gild.

After suffering the loss of its vital functions, the merchant gild by the sixteenth century
either quietly succumbed or lived on with power in a limited branch
of trade, or continued as an honorary organization with occasional feasts,
or, and this was especially true in England, it became practically
identical with the town corporation, from which originally it had been
distinct.

[sidenote: Industry: the Craft Guilds] alongside of the merchant
gilds, which had been associated with the growth of commerce and the
rise of towns, were other guilds connected with the growth of industry,
which retained their importance long after 1500.

These were the craft gilds. [footnote: the craft gild was also called a company, or a mistery, or
metier (French), or zunft (german).] springing into prominence in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries,
the craft gild sometimes, as in Germany, voiced a popular revolt against corrupt and oligarchical
merchant gilds, and sometimes most frequently so in England-- worked quite
harmoniously with the merchant gild, to which its own members belonged.

In common with the merchant gild, the craft gild had religious and
social aspects, and like the merchant gild it insisted on righteous
dealings; but unlike the merchant gild it was composed of men in a
single industry, and it controlled in detail the manufacture as well
as the marketing of commodities.

There were
bakers'gilds, brewers'gilds, smiths'gilds, saddlers'gilds, shoemakers'gilds,
weavers'gilds, tailors'gilds, tanners'gilds, even gilds of masters
of arts who constituted the teaching staff of colleges and universities.

When to-day we speak of a boy "serving his apprenticeship" in a trade,
we seldom reflect that the expression is derived from a practice
of the medieval craft gilds, a practice which survived after the gilds
were extinct.

Apprenticeship was designed to make sure that recruits to the trade
were properly trained. The apprentice was usually selected as a boy
by a master-workman and indentured-- that is, bound to work several
years without wages, while living at the master's house. After the expiration
of this period of apprenticeship, during which he had learned his trade
thoroughly, the youth became a "journeyman," and worked for wages, until
he should finally receive admission to the gild as a master, with
the right to set up his own little shop, with apprentices and journeymen
of his own, and to sell his wares directly to those who used them.

This restriction of membership was not the only way in which the trade was
supervised. The gild had rules specifying the quality of materials to be
used and often, likewise, the methods of manufacture; it might prohibit
night-work, and it ordinarily fixed a "fair price" at which goods were
to be sold. By means of such provisions, enforced by wardens or inspectors,
the gild not only perpetuated the "good old way" of doing things, but guaranteed
to the purchaser a thoroughly good article at a fair price. [sidenote:
partial Decay of Craft gilds] by the opening of the sixteenth century
the towns had grown out of their infancy and were maintaining a great
measure of political and economic freedom.

[sidenote: Freedom of the Towns.] [sidenote: Town Charters] originally
many a town had belonged to some nobleman's extensive manor and its
inhabitants had been under much the same servile obligations to the
lord as were the strictly rural serfs.

But with the
lapse of time and the growth of the towns, the townsmen or burghers
had begun a struggle for freedom from their feudal lords.

They did not want to pay servile dues to a baron, but preferred to
substitute a fixed annual payment for individual obligations; they
besought the right to manage their market; they wished to have cases at
law tried in a court of their own rather than in the feudal court
over which the nobleman presided; and they demanded the right to pay
all taxes in a lump sum for the town, themselves assessing and collecting
the share of each citizen.

These concessions they eventually had won, and each city had its charter,
in which its privileges were enumerated and recognized by the authority
of the nobleman, or of the king, to whom the city owed allegiance.

In England these charters had been acquired generally by merchant gilds,
upon payment of a substantial sum to the nobleman; in France frequently
the townsmen had formed associations, called communes, and had rebelled
successfully against their feudal lords; in Germany the cities had
leagued together for mutual protection and for the acquisition of
common privileges.

Other towns, formerly founded by bishops, abbots, or counts, had
received charters at the very outset.

[sidenote: Merchant Gilds] a peculiar outgrowth of the need for protection
against oppressive feudal lords, as well as against thieves, swindlers,
and dishonest workmen, had been the typically urban organization known
as the merchant gild or the merchants'company.

In the year 1500 the merchant gilds were everywhere on the decline, but
they still preserved many of their earlier and more glorious traditions.
At the time of their greatest importance they had embraced merchants,
butchers, bakers, and candlestick-makers: in fact, all who bought or sold
in the town were included in the gild.

And the merchant gild had then possessed the widest functions.

[sidenote: Peasant Life on the Manor] Crude farm-methods and the heavy
dues exacted by the lord [footnote: in addition to the dues paid
to the lay lord, the peasants were under obligation to make a regular
contribution to the church, which was called the "tithe" and amounted
to a share, less than a tenth, of the annual crops.] of the manor must
have left the poor man little for himself.

Compared with the comfort of the farmer today, the poverty of sixteenth-century
peasants must have been inexpressibly distressful. The craft gilds, with
all their imperfections, were to continue in power awhile longer, slowly
giving away as new trades arose outside of their control, gradually succumbing
in competition with capitalists who refused to be bound by gild
rules and who were to evolve a new "domestic system," [footnote: see
Vol.

Town, trade, and industry thus worked together: trade stimulated industry, industry assisted trade, and the
town profited by both. By the sixteenth century the craft gilds,
though not so weakened as the merchant gilds, were suffering from various
internal diseases which sapped their vitality.

They tended to become exclusive and to direct their power and affluence
in hereditary grooves.

They steadily raised their entrance fees and qualifications. Struggles between gilds in allied trades,
such as spinning, weaving, fulling, and dyeing, often resulted in the reduction of several gilds
to a dependent position. The regulation of the processes of manufacture, once designed to keep up
the standard of skill, came in time to be a powerful hindrance to technical improvements; and in the method
as well as in the amount of his work, the enterprising master found himself handicapped. Even the old
conscientiousness often gave way to greed, until in many places inferior workmanship
received the approval of the gild. Many craft gilds exhibited in the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries a tendency to split somewhat along
the present lines of capital and labor.

On the one hand the old gild organization would be usurped and controlled by
the wealthier master-workmen, called "livery men," because they wore
rich uniforms, or a class of dealers would arise and organize a "merchants'company"
to conduct a wholesale business in the products of a particular industry.

Thus the rich drapers sold all the cloth, but did not help to make it. On the other hand it became increasingly
difficult for journeymen and apprentices to rise to the station of masters; frequently they remained
wage-earners for life.

In order to better their condition they formed new associations, which in England were called journeymen's
or yeomen's companies. How keenly the cold pierced the dark huts of the poorest, is hard for us to
imagine. The winter diet of salt meat, the lack of vegetables, the
chronic filth and squalor, and the sorry ignorance of all laws of health
opened the way to disease and contagion. And if the crops failed, famine
was added to plague. On the other hand we must not forget that the tenement-houses
of our great cities have been crowded in the nineteenth century with people
more miserable than ever was serf of the middle ages.

The serf, at any rate, had the open air instead of a factory in which
to work.

When times were good, he had grain and meat in plenty, and possibly wine
or cider, and he hardly envied the tapestried chambers, the bejeweled clothes,
and the spiced foods of the nobility, for he looked upon them as belonging to
a different world. In one place nobleman and peasant met on a common footing--
in the village church. There, on Dominicus and feast-days, they came
together as Christians to hear Mass; and afterwards, perhaps, holiday
games and dancing on the green, benignantly patronized by the lord's
family, helped the common folk to forget their labors.

The village priest, [footnote: usually very different from the higher clergy, who had large
landed estates of their own, the parish priests had but modest incomes from
the tithes of their parishioners and frequently eked out a living
by toiling on allotted patches of ground.

The monks too were ordinarily poor, although the monastery might be wealthy, and they likewise often
tilled the fields.] himself often of humble birth, though the most learned man on the manor,
was at once the friend and benefactor of the poor and the spiritual director
of the lord. Occasionally a visit of the bishop to administer confirmation
to the children, afforded an opportunity for gayety and universal
festivity.

Rising from
the midst of tumble-down dwellings might stand a magnificent cathedral,
town-hall, or gild building.

Here and there a prosperous merchant would have his luxurious home,
built in what we now call the gothic style, with pointed windows and
gables, and, to save space in a walled town, with the second story
projecting out over the street.

The streets were usually in deplorable condition. There might be one
or two broad highways, but the rest were mere alleys, devious, dark,
and dirty. Often their narrowness made them impassable for wagons. In places
the pedestrian waded gallantly through mud and garbage; pigs grunted
ponderously as he pushed them aside; chickens ran under his feet; and
occasionally a dead dog obstructed the way. There were no sidewalks,
and only the main thoroughfares were paved.

Dirt and filth and refuse were usually disposed of only when a heaven-sent rain washed them down
the open gutters constructed down the middle, or on each side, of a street. Not only was there
no general sewerage for the town, but there was likewise no public water supply. In many of the garden
plots at the rear of the low-roofed dwellings were dug wells which provided water
for the family; and the visitor, before he left the town, would be
likely to meet with water-sellers calling out their ware. To guard against
the danger of fires, each municipality encouraged its citizens to
build their houses of stone and to keep a tub full of water before
every building; and in each district a special official was equipped
with a proper hook and cord for pulling along houses on fire.

At night respectable town-life was practically at a standstill: the gates
were shut; the curfew sounded; no street-lamps dispelled the darkness,
except possibly an occasional lantern which an altruistic or festive
townsman might hang in his front-window; and no efficient police-force
existed-- merely a handful of townsmen were drafted from time to time
as "watchmen" to preserve order, and the "night watch" was famed rather
for its ability to sleep or to roister than to protect life or purse.

Under these circumstances the citizen who would escape an assault by ruffians or thieves remained
prudently indoors at night and retired early to bed. Picturesque and quaint the sixteenth-century town
may have been; but it was also an uncomfortable and an unhealthful
place in which to live.

TRADE PRIOR to the commercial REVOLUTION just about agriculture is the ultimate basis of human
society, so town-life has always been an index of culture and civilization. Moreover, there were no
potatoes or turnips, and few farmers grew clover or other grasses for winter fodder. It was impossible,
therefore, to keep many cattle through the winter; most of the animals
were killed off in the autumn and salted down for the long winter
months when it was impossible to secure fresh meat.

[sidenote: earlier Functions of the Merchant gild.] [sidenote: social]
its social and religious functions, inherited from much earlier bodies,
consisted in paying some special honor to a patron saint, in giving
aid to members in sickness or misfortune, attending funerals, and
also in the more enjoyable meetings when the freely flowing bowl enlivened
the transaction of gild business.

[sidenote: protective] as a protective organization, the gild had been particularly effective. Backed by the combined
forces of all the gildsmen, it was able to assert itself against the lord who claimed manorial rights over
the town, and to insist that a runaway serf who had lived in the town for a year and
a day should not be dragged back to perform his servile labor on the
manor, but should be recognized as a freeman.

The protection of the gild was accorded also to townsmen on their
travels.

In those days all strangers were regarded as suspicious persons, and not infrequently when a merchant
of the gild traveled to another town he would be set upon and robbed or cast into prison. In such
cases it was necessary for the gild to ransom the imprisoned "brother" and,
if possible, to punish the persons who had done the injury, so that thereafter
the liberties of the gild members would be respected. That the business
of the gild might be increased, it was often desirable to enter into special
arrangements with neighboring cities whereby the rights, lives, and
properties of gildsmen were guaranteed; and the gild as a whole was
responsible for the debts of any of its members.

[sidenote: regulative] the most important duty of the gild had been the regulation of the home market.
 It is indeed
the same universal force which created antagonism and the mixture of elements which is afterwards,
by its wisdom, to do away with the conflict. Here we arrive at the eternal dualism which lives
in man, the perpetual antagonism between the temporal and the eternal. Through the eternal
he has become something quite definite, and out of this, he is to create something higher.
He is both dependent and independent. He can only participate in the eternal Spirit whom he
contemplates, in the measure of the compound of elements which that eternal Spirit has effected
within him. And it is just on this account that he is called upon to fashion the eternal out
of the temporal. The spirit works within him, but works in a special way. It works out of the
temporal. It is the peculiarity of the human soul that a temporal thing should be able to work
like an eternal one, should grow and increase in power like an eternal thing. This is why the
soul is at once like a god and a worm. Man, owing to this, stands in a mid-position between
God and animals. The growing and increasing force within him is his daimonic element,--that
within him which pushes out beyond himself.

"Man's daimon is his destiny." Thus strikingly does Heraclitus make reference to this fact.
He extends man's vital essence far beyond the personal. The personality is the vehicle of the
daimon, which is not confined within the limit of the personality, and for which the birth
and death of the personality are of no importance. What is the relation of the daimonic element
to the personality which comes and goes? The personality is only a form for the manifestation
of the daimon.

One who has arrived at this knowledge looks beyond himself, backwards and forwards. The daimonic
experiences through which he has passed are enough to prove to him his own immortality. And
he can no longer limit his daimon to the one function of occupying his personality, for the
latter can only be one of the forms in which the daimon is manifested. The daimon cannot be
shut up within one personality, he has power to animate many. He is able to transform himself
from one personality into another. The great thought of reincarnation springs as a matter of
course from the Heraclitean premises, and not only the thought but the experience of the fact. They first tempted
the ambition of the lord-general with the message of the sovereign authority. On one of these offers
he was questioned by Sir Anthony Ashley Copper in the council of state. [1] nineteen years and
a half had today elapsed since the long parliament first assembled-- years of rotation and bloodshed,
during which the nation had make the assay of almost every form of government, to return at last
to that form from which it had previously departed. Locke, on the contrary,
asserts that Monk accepted the proposal of the gallic minister; that
his wife, through loyalty to the king, betrayed the secret; and that
Cooper put to the general such searching questions that he was confound,
and, in proof of his fidelity, took away the commissions of several
officers of whom the council was jealous.-- Memoirs of Shaftesbury,
in Kennet's Cadaster, 86.

A second council of officers was held the next morning; [b] the general
urged the inexpediency of troubling the house with new inquiry, when
it was on the point of dissolving themselves; and by the address and
influence of his friends, though with considerable difficulty, he
procured the suppression of the obnoxious paper.

On the 16th of March, one day later than was originally fixed, its existence, which had been illegally prolonged
since the death of Charles i., was terminated [c] by its own act.
Locke, ix, 279.

If we may believe Clarges, one of his secret advisers, it was respecting
the former which Clarges mentioned to Cooper.

See note (Metal).] [sidenote a: a. D. 1660. [2] the subscriber is already acquainted
with its account. 704. Two offers of assistance were made to the specific,
on the supposition that he might aspire to the supreme power; one from
the republican, which i have mentioned, another from Bordeaux, the
french ambassador, in the name of Cardinal Mazarin. [2] rejected by
him, they invoke to the military; they represented the loss of their
indebtedness, [footnote 1: Clar.

The judges of the late king, and the purchasers of forfeited possession, begin to tremble. In some
places Charles was proclaimed by the populace; several ministers openly prayed for him in the churches:
the common sanhedrin, in their address, declared itself not averse to his restitution; and the house
itself was induced to repeal [a] the celebrated engagement in favour of a commonwealth, without a
single person or a house of peers, and to embody under trusty officers the militia of the city and the
counties, as a counterpoise to the republican interest in the army.
In a short day he ordered the several officers to join their respective
regiments, appointed a commission to inspect and reform the different
corps, expelled all the officers whose sentiments he had reason to
distrust, and then demanded and obtained from the army an engagement
to abstain from all interference in matters of state, and to submit
all things to the authority of the old parliament.

March 10.] and of the property which they had get, as the infallible
consequences of the restoration of the royal exile; and they so far
wrought on the fears of the officers, that an engagement to oppose
all attempts to set up a single person was presented [a] to Monk for
his signature, with a request that he would solicit the concurrence
of the parliament.

Ludlow, 364, 365. Pap. Iii.

With respect to the offer from Bordeaux, he tells us that it was made through Clarges himself, and
scornfully rejected by Monk, who nevertheless consented to receive a sojourn from Bordeaux, on condition
that the subject should not be mentioned.-- Philips, 602, 604. Price, 773.] [footnote 2: gumble, 270.

    Never will any believe, who has been in these
      matters instructed,
    That spirits of men only live while what is
      called life here endures,
    That only so long do they live, receiving their
      joys and their sorrows,
    But that ere they were born here and when they
      are dead, they are nothing.

The Greek sage did not even raise the question whether there was an eternal part in man, but
only enquired in what this eternal element consisted and how man can nourish and cherish it
in himself. For from the outset it was clear to him that man is an intermediate creation between
the earthly and the divine. "In addition to the differentiation of the bed and incipient organs becomes
individualised. (p. 154).

    
      
    
      The tissues and the germ-layers stand in fairly close possession with
one another, for his while certain tissues are formed chiefly but
not exclusively in one layer, others are formed only in one layer
and never elsewhere.

The segmentation which
soon becomes so marked, particularly in the layer, is also due to a process
of histological differentiation is independent of the cell-theory;
it signifies that textural differentiation which leads to the formation
of tissues in Bichat's sense.

In its early appearance the germ consists of an almost homogeneous
mass, containing clear or dark bubble suspended in its substance
(ii., p. 92).

At the time that the organs of the body are being thus roughly blocked out and moulded from the germ-layers
the third process of differentiation is the vessel-layer; on the other hand, bone is formed only in
the muscle-layer (i., p. 155, ii., pp. 92-3). Through histological differentiation the texture of the
layers, there follows later another differentiation in the substance of the layers, whereby cartilage,
muscle and existence separate out, a part also of the mass becoming fluid and entering the bloodstream" It
will be noticed that the concept of geomorphologic differentiation. For example,
peripheral nerves are for the most part formed in the muscle layer, though
the bulk of the nervous tissue is formed in the walls of the nerve tube;
similarly blood and blood-vessels may arise from almost any layer,
though their chief seat of origin is actively going on.

This homogeneity gives place to heterogeneity; the structureless mass becomes fibrous to form muscles,
hardens to form cartilage or bone, becomes liquid to form the blood, differentiates in a hundred
other ways-- into absorbing and secreting tissues, into nerves and ganglia, and so forth.
 Their
pride had as a necessary adjunct the stamp of humility and modesty, expressed in the words,
"All knowledge of perishable things is in perpetual flux like the things themselves." Heraclitus
calls the eternal universe a play, he could also call it the most serious of realities. But
the word "earnest" has lost its force through being applied to earthly experiences. On the
other hand, the realisation of "the play of the eternal" leaves man that security in life of
which he is deprived by that earnest which has come out of transitory things.

A different conception of the universe from that of Heraclitus grew up, on the basis of the
Mysteries, in the community founded by Pythagoras in the 6th century B.C. in Southern Italy.
The Pythagoreans saw the basis of things in the numbers and geometrical figures of which they
investigated the laws by means of mathematics. Aristotle says of them: "They first studied
mathematics, and, quite engrossed in them, they considered the elements of mathematics to be
the elements of all things. Now as numbers are naturally the first thing in mathematics, and
they thought they saw many resemblances in numbers to things and to development, and certainly
more in numbers than in fire, earth, and water, in this way one quality of numbers came to
mean for them justice, another, the soul and spirit, another, time, and so on with all the
rest. Moreover they found in numbers the qualities and connections of harmony; and thus everything
else, in accordance with its whole nature, seemed to be an image of numbers, and numbers seemed
to be the first thing in nature."

The mathematical and scientific study of natural phenomena must always lead to a certain Pythagorean
habit of thought. When a string of a certain length is struck, a particular sound is produced.
If the string is shortened in certain numeric proportions, other sounds will be produced. The
pitch of the sounds may be expressed in figures. Physics also expresses colour-relations in
figures. When two bodies combine into one substance, it always happens that a certain definite
quantity of the one body, expressible in numbers, combines with a certain definite quantity
of the other. The Pythagoreans' sense of observation was directed to such arrangements of measures
and numbers in nature. Geometrical figures also play a similar rôle. Astronomy, for instance,
is mathematics applied to the heavenly bodies. One fact became important to the thought-life
of the Pythagoreans. This was that man, quite alone and purely through his mental activity,
discovers the laws of numbers and figures, and yet, that when he looks abroad into nature,
he finds that things are obeying the same laws which he has ascertained for himself in his
own mind. Man forms the idea of an ellipse, and ascertains the laws of ellipses. And the heavenly
bodies move according to the laws which he has established. (It is not, of course, a question
here of the astronomical views of the Pythagoreans. What may be said about these may equally
be said of Copernican views in the connection now being dealt with.) Hence it follows as a
direct consequence that the achievements of the human soul are not an activity apart from the
rest of the world, but that in those achievements the cosmic laws are expressed. The Pythagoreans
said: "The senses show man physical phenomena, but they do not show the harmonious order which
these things follow." PUNCH, or the LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL.

150 February 2, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

According to the Correspondent of the daily Mail who described the festivities at nish, the King of BULGARIA
"has a curious duck-like waddle." this is believed to be the result
of his effort to do the Goose-Step while avoiding the Turkey-Trot.***
owing to the extraction of benzol and toluol from gas for the purpose
of making high-explosives it is stated that consumers may have to
put up with some decrease in illuminating power.

It is expected, in view of the good object involved, that the announcement
will be received in a spirit of toluoleration.*** we cannot agree
with the actor who complains that his manager forbids him to wear
his armlet on the stage.

The sympathies of the audience might be entirely deranged by the
discovery that the elderly villain was an attested patriot while the
young and beautiful hero was either ineligible or a slacker.*** describing
the depressed condition of the laundry trade a witness at the Clerkenwell
County Court said, "we are eight million double collars short every
week." it is rightly conjectured that they are in the neighbourhood
of the Front.*** nothing in the course of his Balkan pilgrimage is
reported to have pleased the KAISER so much as a steamer-trip on the
Danube.

It was looking so sympathetically blue.*** the Government is going to
close Museums and Picture-galleries to the public. No one shall accuse
us of being Apostles of Culture.*** It is said that the australian
and new Zealand soldiers now in London are very fond of visiting the
british Museum, and take a particular interest in the egyptian antiquities.

But it is not true that they now refer to England as "the Mummy Country."*** Austrians and Hungarians
are said to be quarrelling as to whether the occupied serbian territory
should eventually belong to the Monarchy or the Kingdom, and the jurists
on either side are ransacking the history of the past for arguments
to support their respective cases.

Here we have another instance of the fondness of learned men for
disputing about purely academic questions.

Serbia will belong to the Serbians.*** an American gentleman, who started
out to visit his wife when she was staying with her mother and failed
to find her after three days'search, excuses himself on the ground
that he had forgotten her maiden name.

He puts it down to absence of mind; and his mother-in-law is inclined
to agree with him.*** Soap is the latest article to be placed on
the list of absolute contraband; and it is now more certain than
ever that the Germans will not come out of the War with clean hands.***
in view of the impending paper-famine a widely-circulated journal
announces its readiness to receive back from the public any parcels
of old copies marked "waste paper." in the opinion of its trade-rivals
the inscription is superfluous.*** a suggestion has been made by a
Registrar in Bankruptcy that the tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE'S death
should be celebrated by the performance in every large town of one
of the Bard's plays; and some regret has been expressed that anybody
should take advantage of a national celebration to boom his own business.***
"'how many of us realise that, were it not for America, the War to-day
in Europe, as fought, could not even exist?'" is the question put,
according to a new York correspondent, "by Mr. Gutzon Borglum, the
great american sculptor." still the War has its compensations.

But for its existence we might never have heard of Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM,
the great american sculptor.*** a correspondent, describing the recent
food riots in Berlin, says that they were chiefly due to "women who
were fed up with the difficulty of providing meals for their families."***
the following notice was found affixed to a building somewhere near
the Front: "SIR OFFICERS,-- ask the bathroom's key to the office.

The bathroom shall be wash by the servant after bath. Sir Officer without servant shall not
have the other.***** after a description of the new lighting order:--"
the regulations will impose a great deal of work on the police, and
it is the duty of the public to make it as light as possible.

"-- Hampshire Observer.

Lux, in fact, a non lucendo.***** a lonely LIFE." nothing but margarine
has entered my door since the War began.

"-- Dr. C. W. SALEEBY in" daily Chronicle. "***** the WATCH DOGS. Xxxiv. My dear CHARLES,-- we're
having a great time with our new arrival, one of those confounded
civilians, who are only let into the business because the business,
in these modern and highly complicated days, cannot be carried on
without them.

He's a jolly old Lieutenant of about fifty years; he has a concentrated
experience of the world but doesn't remember having been mixed off
in a big european war before.

At first I kept on telling him that business is one thing and war is
another, but he wouldn't see it and persisted in doing and saying
and thinking things which were bound to land us in a national disaster.

He had no respect whatever for the Pass memo., his central and sole
idea being to push along with the elimination of the Bosch.

When he wanted something done, he just went to the Top-man of the department,
called him" i say, "and went straight to the point. The Top-man had
never been asked to do business this way before.

He put up with it a dozen times or so, but finally he had to take
steps.

So he wrote a little note on a Buff slip and addressed it, very shrewdly
of course, to the Top-man but one; and the top-man but one read it
and passed it very carefully to the Top-man but two; and very, with
that inevitability which is the hall-mark of the system, it was passed
and passed and passed until it came (in less than a week) to the office
of the ancient Lieutenant on the opposite side of the street.

And it ran:"
Lieutenant so-and-so should be notified that it is neither necessary nor desirable
that he should call personally at this office to transact his business.
Matters should be put forward by him through the usual course of correspondence.
"the ancient Lieutenant, who wouldn't hurt anybody's feelings for
many world, felt that it was up to him to put the matter right.

So he stepped across to the Top-man's office, and when the Top-man asked him, somewhat pointedly,
if he had received his note, the ancient very genially replied,"
yes, thank you, "and explained that he had just looked in personally
to acknowledge receipt of same.

It sounds as if a dreadful quarrel would be raging between the ancient
on one side and on the other the Top-man, the whole series of under-top-men
and all persons in any way representing the military system.

You'd expect to hear that the ancient's conversation at mess is insubordinate, rebellious, or at least bitterly
sarcastic. No such thing; the old gentleman becomes a more ardent
militarist every day; wants to see once for all an end of all lawyer-politicians,
and all so-called" business-men.

"" we have made a poor show of being civilians, "is his point;" let's
try being soldiers for a generation or two.

"on the whole he thinks we should find it easier to carry on as a
british Empire in uniform than as a german province in mufti.

He says that what's wrong with prussian Militarism is that it is prussian;
to succeed, the thing has to be run by gentlemen. A top-man honoured
our mess the other night.

Under the mellowing influence of our curried Bully he unbent somewhat
and encouraged the ancient on his pet subject.

Under the influence of the latter's theories he unbent still further.
He discoursed upon the true inwardness of the military method of running
an office, pausing at last for the ancient to say a few words." oh,
"said he," i don't allow myself to be put off by a trifle like that.

There's the a kind heart behind a Buff slip, and we all have our
little weaknesses.

"the idea of having a little weakness was so novel to the Top-man
that it caused him to choke and to be led from the mess, eventually,
in a state of nervous exhaustion.

The latest information from the trenches goes to support the maxim that all one
requires to wage war is a bold face and a gas helmet. A very distinguished
O. C. Went up the other day to inspect the trenches of his command and to
express such views of their faults and the faults of their inmates as
might occur to him from time to time.

He had progressed some way up the communication trench, when it struck
him that, whereas his recent order had been nicely menacing to everyone
of whatever rank who was discovered there or thereabouts without a
gas helmet, nevertheless he himself was at that moment innocent of
such furniture.

Fortunately there came from the opposite direction an odds-and-end private,
with nothing in his favour except the wearing of the well-known satchel
so much in vogue in Flanders society for the carrying of gas helmets.
That was enough for the Commander; this was essentially one of those
privates to be called" my man, "and treated as such.

Politely but
firmly he was requested to part with his satchel as a temporary loan to
his General. Firmly, if respectfully, he refused to comply.

Them was his orders.

The Commander congratulated him on his very proper attitude, explained
to him the nature of the higher commands and demanded the satchel.
The man looked like being stony about it, but the Commander became
irresistibly commanding and got the satchel at last.

He buckled it on, and the party proceeded, characterising the reluctance
of the private to part with his treasure as almost an exaggerated
sense of obedience to printed orders.

Gas helmets always exercise a peculiar fascination for people who inspect trenches,
and the matter was now especially prominent in the mind of the Commander
as he marched along, outwardly appearing to be at his happiest here,
inwardly thanking goodness that his home was elsewhere.

Conceive his
delight to discover a subaltern, fresh from ablutions, with no satchel
upon him! the subaltern, distinctly aware of this amongst his many
failings, was all for being passed by as insignificant; the Commander
was all for a scene.

Everybody halted, and the air became pregnant with possibilities....
It was a particularly calculated speech, leading up gradually to the
pointed contrast between (a) overworked Commander, weighed down with
responsibilities, absorbed day and night in momentous matters of large
principle, nevertheless infallible on smallest detail and now in possession
of gas helmet, one, and (b) so junior subaltern, free to enjoy the
open-air irresponsible life of the trenches, yet neglecting even the
few small matters entrusted to him, without same." and what's more,
Sir, "he concluded," i doubt very much whether, if someone gave you
a helmet now, you'd know what to do with it.

Here, take mine. "(the attendant Brass-hats liked the" mine, "but very
discreetly kept their emotions to themselves.) it was not a peculiarly
clean or remarkably well-packed satchel which the trembling hand
of the disgraced subaltern took from the Commander, and the latter
did not intend to let attention dwell too long upon the grimy details
of its exterior.

Fixing the steel eye of conscious rectitude on his victim, he leant
slightly towards him and very unmistakably shouted at him the one
dread word," GAS!

".... unfortunately for the Commander the subaltern not only knew what
to do next, but also had just the physical strength remaining in his
fingers to start doing it. With the eyes of all upon him (and by this
time there had gathered round quite a nice little crowd, thoroughly
conversant with the event in progress), the subaltern opened the satchel
alleged to belong to the Commander and took from it-- no, Charles,
not a gas helmet, but a pair of socks-- and such socks too! yours
ever, HENRY.********** on BELLONA'S HEM.**********"

Mrs. Ruth Roberts, of Folkestone, celebrates the completion of her
103rd year to-day.

She is one of a family of twenty-two, and her father fought with
two of her sons at Waterloo.

"-- irish Times.

She seems to have been very young for a mother when these family
dissensions occurred.*****"

Will
you allow me to give a warning to Ford owners who, like myself, jack
up to obtain an easy start. A few days ago i was doing so as usual with
only one scotch.

The car jumped the jack, went over the scotch, knocked me down, ran
over me, tore my clothes to rags, bruised me all over, tore my flesh
and broke my collar-bone, and i think i got up very lightly.

Of course that will not happen to me again.

"-- the Motor. He will either drink the Scotch first or not have one at all.********** the FAUNA of the FRONT.
Chief among the fauna of the Front is, of course, the Bosch, a subterranean
animal of unpleasant habits, which is now classed as vermin.

He has been so thoroughly dealt with elsewhere that i shall leave
him on one side, and confine my few observations to smaller and pleasanter
creatures.

The remaining fauna of the Front are (1) mice; (2) rats; with a few
interesting extras, furred and feathered, which deserve more serious
treatment than i can give them.

At home the mouse is regarded with contemptuous annoyance as a petty
but persevering thief will be given a week's notice.*** opposing a
suggestion of the Wandsworth Borough Council to discontinue the issue
of fiction from the free libraries, a member of the Women's Freedom
League said that a novel was to a woman what a pipe was to a man.

Well, not quite,
perhaps. We never saw a man begin a pipe at the wrong end.**********
from an article by Mr. AUSTIN HARRISON in the Sunday pictorial:--"
a few strange gentlemen attitudinise in Westminster on principle,
but these men would cut capers of principle in any case, like Mr.
Snodgrass when he went skating.

"or Mr. Winkle when he wrote verses.*****" in the continental boat-trains
the warning,'Licht linauslehnen,'has not been removed from the windows....
occasionally you see that'nicht linauslehnen'has been indignantly
pasted over.

"-- provincial Paper.

The latter is certainly a little more german than the key." it sounds
rather abrupt.*** owing to the Government demand that nothing in the
way of unnecessary expenditure should be allowed, it is expected that
all paid lecturers on War Economy and national Thrift; while the rat
commits his grosser depredations in an atmosphere tinged with horror.

Out here it is different, for we are perforce neighbours. Indeed, we
bipeds are in a sense trespassers upon the domain of the subterranean
peoples.

At home one seldom sees a rat or mouse save from above, and to look
down upon anything is invariably to misjudge it.

But here we share the hospitality of the underground and meet its
freehold tenants on a level.

 The dying Socrates
does not prove the immortality of the soul, he simply lays bare the nature of the soul. And
then it comes to light that growth and decay, birth and death, have nothing to do with the
soul. The essence of the soul lies in the true, and this can neither come into being nor perish.
The soul has no more to do with the becoming than the straight has with the crooked. But death
belongs to the becoming. Therefore the soul has nothing to do with death. Must we not say of
what is immortal, that it admits of mortality as little as does the straight of the crooked?
Starting from this point, "must we not ask," adds Socrates, "that if the immortal is imperishable,
is it not impossible for the soul to come to an end when death arrives? For from what has been
already shown, it does not admit of death, nor can it die any more than three can be an even
number."

Let us review the whole development of this dialogue, in which Socrates brings his hearers
to behold the eternal in human personality. The hearers accept his thoughts, and they look
into themselves to see if they can find in their inner experiences something which assents
to his ideas. They make the objections which strike them. What has happened to the hearers
when the dialogue is finished? They have found something within them which they did not possess
before. They have not merely accepted an abstract truth, but they have gone through a development.
Something has come to life in them which was not living in them before. Is not this to be compared
with an initiation? And does not this throw light on the reason for Plato's setting forth his
philosophy in the form of conversation? These dialogues are nothing else than the literary
form of the events which took place in the sanctuaries of the Mysteries. We are convinced of
this from what Plato himself says in many passages. Plato wished to be, as a philosophical
teacher, what the initiator into the Mysteries was, as far as this was compatible with the
philosophical manner of communication. It is evident how Plato feels himself in harmony with
the Mysteries! He only thinks he is on the right path when it is taking him where the Mystic
is to be led. He thus expresses himself on the subject in the Timæus. "All those who are of
right mind invoke the gods for their small or great enterprises; but we who are engaged in
teaching about the universe,--how far it is created and uncreated,--have the special duty,
if we have not quite lost our way, to call upon and implore the gods and goddesses that we
may teach everything first in conformity with their spirit, and next in harmony with ourselves."
And Plato promises those who follow this path, that divinity, as a deliverer, will grant them
illuminating teaching as the conclusion of their devious and wandering researches.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is especially the Timæus that reveals to us how the Platonic cosmogony is connected with
the Mysteries. At the very beginning of this dialogue there is mention of an initiation. Solon
is initiated by an Egyptian priest into the formation of the worlds, and the way in which eternal
truths are symbolically expressed in traditional myths. "There have already been many and various
destructions of part of the human race," says the Egyptian priest to Solon, "and there will
be more in the future; the most extensive by fire and water, other lesser ones through countless
other causes. It is also related in your country that Phaëthon, the son of Helios, once mounted
his father's chariot, and as he did not know how to drive it, everything on the earth was burnt
up, and he himself slain by lightning. This sounds like a fable, but it contains the truth
of the change in the movements of the celestial bodies revolving round the earth and of the
annihilation of everything on the earth by much fire. This annihilation happens periodically,
after the lapse of certain long periods of time." This passage in the Timæus contains a plain
indication of the attitude of the initiate towards folk-myths. He recognises the truths hidden
in their images.

The drama of the formation of the world is brought before us in the Timæus. No one who really knows
the whole South could be guilty of such a mistake. The first difficulty is to determine the limits
of the South. The census classification of States is open to objection.

Delaware, Maryland, and West Virginia are included in the South, and so is Kentucky. Missouri is
excluded, but a place is made for the new State of Oklahoma. As to Delaware and Maryland, there
may be a difference of opinion, though it is difficult to justify the
inclusion of the former.

West Virginia is certainly not southern, socially, politically, or
predominantly.

Kentucky is doubtful, and it is difficult to see why Missouri should
be excluded from any list which includes Kentucky.

Oklahoma is difficult to classify.

But, at any rate the South is a large country, with a great variety
of soil, climate, and population.

As the crow flies, the distance from Richmond to Memphis, in an adjoining
State, is greater than from Richmond to Bangor, Maine.

From Richmond to Galveston is farther than from Richmond to omaha
or Duluth.

Atlanta is usually considered to be far down in the South, and yet
the distance from Atlanta to Gordon and Wheeler, Harris and Bate,
Cockrell and Vest, Walthall and Colquitt, Morgan and Gibson, and
dozens of other Confederate officers.

The process of unifying the white South was not universally successful,
however.

Here and there were republican islands in a democratic or conservative sea.
The largest and most important exception was the appalachian South, divided
among eight different States.

It is a large region, to this day thinly populated and lacking in means of communication with the outside
world. Though it has some bustling cities, thriving towns, and prosperous communities, the appalachian South
today is economically rural. In the 216 counties in this region or its foothills, there were in 1910
only 43 towns with more than 2500 inhabitants.

This appalachian region had been settled by emigrants from state officers proves the truth of this
statement. In 1882, fourteen of the twenty-two united States Senators from the seceding States
had military records and three had been civil officers of the Confederacy.
Several States had solid delegations of ex-Confederate soldiers in
both houses.

When one reads the proceedings of Congress, he finds the names of Vance
and Ransom, Hampton and Butler, Boston or Minneapolis is less than
to El Paso. Again, new Orleans is nearer to Cincinnati than to Raleigh.
There were, moreover, many racial strains in the South.

The Scotch-irish of the Piedmont in the Carolinas had, and have yet, little in common with the french
of Louisiana. The lowlander of South Carolina and the hill men of
Arkansas differed in more than economic condition.

Even in the same State, different sections were not in entire accord. In Virginia and the Carolinas,
for example, economic conditions and traditions-- and traditions are yet a power in the South-- differed
greatly in different sections. As the years passed, apathy began to
disappear in some parts of the South. Wiser men recognized that the
old had gone never to return. Men began to face the inevitable. Instead
of brooding upon their grievances, they adjusted themselves, more
or less successfully, to the new economic and social order, and by acting
in harmony with it found that progress was not so impossible as they had
supposed. White planters found that the net returns from their farms
on which they themselves had labored were greater than when a larger
force of negroes had been employed; shrewd men began to put their
scanty savings together to take advantage of convenient water power.

Securing the bare necessities of life was no longer a difficult problem for every one. Men began to find
pleasure in activity however than in mere passivity or obstruction.

Somehow, somewhere, sometime, a new hopefulness was born and this
new spirit-- evidence of new life-- became embodied in "the new South."
the expression is said to have been used first by general Adam Badeau
when stationed in South Carolina, but the new South of which he spoke
was not the new South as it is understood today.

Many others have used the term loosely to signify any change in economic or social conditions which
they had discovered.

The first man to use the expression in a way which sent it vibrating through the whole nation
was Henry W. Grady, the gifted editor of the Atlanta Constitution. In a speech made in 1886 by invitation of the
new England Society of New York City, he took for his theme "the
new South" and delivered an oration which, judged by its effects,
had some of the marks of greatness.

He went on, rather, to express the feeling that the outcome had been for the
best, and painted a picture of the new spirit of the South, a trifle
enthusiastic perhaps, but still recognizable.

Today a new South may be said to be so apparent.

The old South still exists in nooks and corners of many States, it
is true: there are communities, counties, groups of counties, which
cling to the old ideas.

In the hearts of thousands of men and women the old South is enshrined,
and there is no room for the new; but the South as a whole is a new
South, marked by a spirit of hopefulness, a belief in the future,
and a desire to take a fuller part in the life of the nation.

To trace the development of the new spirit and to discuss its manifestations is the purpose of this book.
CHAPTER ii the CONFEDERATE SOLDIER takes CHARGE as the year 1877 was beginning, the carpetbag
governments in nine of the southern States had been already overthrown. In two other States were
two sets of officers, one of which represented the great mass of the
whites while the other was based upon negro suffrage and was supported
by federal bayonets. Both sides seemed determined, and trouble was
expected.

The Republican contestants in Florida had already yielded to a decision of the supreme Court of the State,
but in South Carolina and Louisiana the Republican claimants held on until
the orders to withdraw the troops were given in April, 1877.

The withdrawal of the troops marked the definite end of Reconstruction. The democratic claimants
then took undisputed possession of the executive and legislative departments
of these States. The native whites were again in entire charge of all the
States which had seceded.

They now had the task of rebuilding the commonwealths shattered by war
and by the aftermath of war. A new era for the South had dawned,
and here properly begins the history of the new South. The first and
most important problem, as the white South saw it, was the maintenance
of white supremacy which had been gained with so much difficulty.

In only three States-- South Carolina, Mississippi, and Louisiana-- were there negro majorities. Obviously,
if the whites could be induced or coerced to stand together, they could continue to control the governments
in eight of the seceding States. The negro population, however, was not distributed uniformly over
any of these States, so that, no matter how great the white preponderance in the State as a whole,
there were counties or other civil divisions where negroes were in
the majority. This meant that the issue of white supremacy was present
in every State, for the negro majorities in such counties could elect
the local officers and control the local governments.

To attain a political consolidation of the white population all other
issues must be subordinated. Differences of opinion and judgment must be held
in abeyance. No question upon which white men might seriously disagree
must be placed in the party platform, if any way to avoid such insertion
could be found. If by any chance the majority adopted a course obnoxious
to the minority, the decision must be accepted loyally if not cheerfully,
and the full white vote must be cast.

Objection
to a candidate or measure must not be expressed at the ballot box. Personal
ambition must be restrained, and weakness and even unfitness in a
candidate must be overlooked for the sake of white solidarity.

The task of creating a temporarily solid South was not easy. The Southerner
had always been an individualist, freely exercising his right to
vote independently, engaging in sharp political contests before 1861,
and even during the War.

The Confederate Congress wrangled impotently while grant was thundering at the gates of Richmond.
So strong was the memory of past differences, that old party designations were avoided. The political
organization to which allegiance was demanded was generally called the conservative party, and the
Republican party was universally called the radical party. The term
Conservative was adopted partly as a contrast, partly because the
peace party had been so called during the War, and especially because
the name Democrat was obnoxious to everywhere many old Whigs.

It was not until 1906 that the term Conservative was officially dropped from the title of the dominant
party in Alabama.

It is not surprising that men continued to turn for leadership to
those who had led in battle and, to a less extent, to those who had
taken part in the civil government of the Confederacy.

But
for the humiliations of Reconstruction, some of these men might have been discredited, but the
bitter experiences of those years had restored them to popular favor. As
the federal soldier marched out of the public buildings everywhere,
the Confederate soldier marched in.

These men had led in the contest against the scalawags and the carpetbaggers and many had suffered
thereby. Now they came into their own. In some States the organization
of voters was almost military.

During
the first years after the downfall of the Reconstruction governments the task of consolidating the
white South was measurably achieved.

As some one flippantly put the case, there came to be in many sections "two kinds of people-- Democrats
and negroes." it was the general feeling on the part of the whites that to fail to vote was shameful,
to scratch a ticket was a crime, and to attempt to organize the negroes was treason to one's subspecies.
The "Confederate brigadier" sounded the rallying cry at every election, and a military record came
to be almost a requisite for political preferment. Men's eyes were
turned to the past, and on every stump were recounted again and again
the horrors of Reconstruction and the valiant deeds of the Confederate
soldiers. What a candidate had done in the past in another field seemed more
important even than his actual qualifications for the office to which
he aspired.

A study of the congressional Record or of lists of the lowlands. Some of them were of the thriftless
sort who were forced from the better lands in the East by the inexorable
working of economic law. By far the greater part, however, were of the
same stock as the restless pioneers who poured over the mountains
to flood the Mississippi Valley.

Students of the mountain people maintain that so small an accident as the breaking of a linchpin fixed one family
forever in a mountain cove, while relatives went on to become the builders of new States in the interior.
Cut off from the world in these mountains, there have been preserved to
this day many of the idioms, folksongs, superstitions, manners, customs,
and habits of mind of Stuart England, as they were brought over by
the early colonists.

The steep farms afforded a scanty living, and though the cattle found luscious pasturage during
the summer, they were half starved during the winter. If by chance the mountaineers had a surplus
of any product, there was no one to whom they might sell it. They
lived almost without the convenience of coinage as a means of exchange.

Naturally in such a society there was no place for slaves, and to this day negroes are not welcome in many
mountain counties. But though these mountain people have missed contact with the outside world
and have been deprived of the stimulus of new ideas, they seldom
give evidence of anything that can fairly be classed as degeneracy.

Ignorance, illiteracy, and suspended or arrested development the traveler
of today will find among them, and actions which can shock his present-day
standards; but these same actions would hardly have shocked his own
father's great-grandfather.

These isolated mountaineers have been aptly called "our contemporary ancestors."
the same people, it is true, had poured out of their cabins to meet
Ferguson at King's Mountain; they had followed Jackson to new Orleans
and to Florida and they had felt the influence of the wave of nationalism
which swept the country after the War of 1812.

But back to their mountains they had gone, and the great current of national
progress swept by them. The movement toward sectionalism, which developed after
the Missouri Compromise, had left them cold. So the mountaineers
held to the Union. They did not volunteer freely for the Confederacy,
and they resisted conscription. How many were enlisted in the Union
armies it is difficult to discover, certainly over 100,000.

It is not surprising, therefore, that these people became Republicans and have so continued in their
allegiance. Another element in the population having great influence in the South-- in North Carolina,
at least-- was the Society of Friends. It was strong in both the central
and the eastern sections. Many, but by no means all, of the Quakers
opposed the civil War and, after peace came, opposed the men who
had been prominent in the War, that is, the dominant party.

In spite of the social stigma attaching to Republicanism, many of the Quakers have persisted in
their membership in that party to the present day. In all the seceding
States there was a Union element in 1861, and, while most of the
men composing it finally went into the War with zeal, there were individuals
who resisted stoutly during the War they were abused without stint,
but this criticism had only the effect of making them more stubborn.

They naturally became Republicans after the War and furnished some of the votes which made Reconstruction
possible.

With these may be
classed the few northern men who remained in the South after the downfall
of the Reconstruction governments. There was another class of people in the South,
some of whom had been rabid secessionists and whose Republicanism
had no other foundation than a desire for the loaves and fishes.

The salaries
attached to some of the federal offices seemed enormous at that time
and, before the prohibition wave swept the South, there were in the revenue
service thousands of minor appointments for the faithful. These deputy
marshals, "storekeepers and gaugers," and petty postmasters attempted
to keep up a local organization.

The collectors of internal revenue, United States marshals, other officers
of the federal courts, and the postmasters in the larger towns controlled
these men and therefore the state organizations.

These federal officials broke the unanimity of the white South, and they were
supported by thousands of negroes. Some individuals among them were
shrewd politicians, but the contest was unequal from the beginning. On one
side was intelligence, backed by loyal followers fiercely determined
to rule.

On the other was a leadership on
the whole less intelligent, certainly more selfish, with followers who were ignorant
and susceptible to cajolery or intimidation. Before the downfall of the
Reconstruction governments, and in the first few years afterward, there
was much intimidation of negroes who wished to vote.

Commination
of loss of employment, eviction from house or plantation, or refusal of credit
were frequent. In many sections such measures were enough, and Democrats were
ordinarily chosen at the polls.

Where the negroes were in a larger majority, stronger measures were adopted.
Around election time armed bands of whites would sometimes patrol the
roads wearing some special badge or garment.

Men would gallop past the houses of negroes at night, firing guns or
pistols into the air and occasionally into the roofs of the houses.
Negroes talking politics were occasionally visited and warned-- sometimes
with physical violence-- to keep silent. On election day determined men
with rifles or shotguns, ostensibly intending to go hunting after
they had voted, gathered around the polls. An occasional random shot
might kick up the dust near an approaching negro. Men actually or
apparently the worse for liquor might stagger around, seeking an excuse
for a fight

.
 And the initiates took up the
same attitude to that which the people had created beyond nature; that is to the world of popular
gods and myths. They wanted to penetrate the laws of this world of gods and myths. Where the
people saw the form of a god, or a myth, they looked for a higher truth.

Let us take an example. The Athenians had been forced by the Cretan king Minos to deliver up
to him every eight years seven boys and seven girls. These were thrown as food to a terrible
monster, the Minotaur. When the mournful tribute was to be paid for the third time, the king's
son Theseus accompanied it to Crete. On his arrival there, Ariadne, the daughter of Minos interested
herself in him. The Minotaur dwelt in the labyrinth, a maze from which no one could extricate
himself who had once got in. Theseus desired to deliver his native city from the shameful tribute.
For this purpose he had to enter the labyrinth into which the monster's booty was usually thrown,
and to kill the Minotaur. He undertook the task, overcame the formidable foe, and succeeded
in regaining the open air with the aid of a ball of thread which Ariadne had given him.

The Mystic had to discover how the creative human mind comes to weave such a story. As the
botanist watches the growth of plants in order to discover its laws, so did the Mystic watch
the creative spirit. He sought for a truth, a nucleus of wisdom where the people had invented
a myth.

Sallust discloses to us the attitude of a mystical sage towards a myth of this kind. "We might
call the whole world a myth," says he, "which contains bodies and things visibly, and souls
and spirits in a hidden manner. If the truth about the gods were taught to all, the unintelligent
would disdain it from not understanding it, and the more capable would make light of it. But
if the truth is given in a mystical veil, it is assured against contempt and serves as a stimulus
to philosophic thinking."

When the truth contained in a myth was sought by an initiate, he was conscious of adding something
which did not exist in the consciousness of the people. He was aware of being above that consciousness,
as a botanist is above a growing plant. Something was expressed which was different from what
was present in the mythical consciousness, but it was looked upon as a deeper truth, symbolically
expressed in the myth. Man is confronted with his own sense-nature in the form of a hostile
monster. He sacrifices to it the fruits of his personality, and the monster devours them, and
continues to do so till the conqueror (Theseus) awakes in man. His intuition spins the thread
by means of which he finds his way again when he repairs to the maze of the senses in order
to slay his enemy. The mystery of human knowledge itself is expressed in this conquering of
the senses. The initiate knows that mystery. It points to a force in human personality unknown
to ordinary consciousness, but nevertheless active within it. It is the force which creates
the myth, which has the same structure as mystical truth. This truth finds its symbol in the myth.

What then is to be found in the myths? In them is a creation of the spirit, of the unconsciously
creative soul. The soul has well-defined laws. In order to create beyond itself, it must work
in a certain direction. At the mythological stage it does this in images, but these are built
up according to the laws of the soul. We might also say that when the soul advances beyond
the stage of mythological consciousness to deeper truths, these bear the same stamp as did
the myths, for one and the same force was at work in their formation.

Plotinus, the philosopher of the Neo-Platonic school (A.D. 204-269), speaks of this relation
of mythical representation to higher knowledge in reference to the priest-sages of Egypt. "Whether
as the result of rigorous investigations, or whether instinctively when imparting their wisdom,
the Egyptian sages do not use, for expressing their teaching and precepts, written signs which
are imitations of voice and speech; but they draw pictures, and in the outlines of these they
record, in their temples, the thought contained in each thing, so that every picture contains
knowledge and wisdom, and is a definite truth and a complete whole, although there is no explanation
nor discussion. Afterwards the contents of the picture are drawn out of it and expressed in
words, and the cause is found why it is as it is, and not otherwise."

If we wish to find out the connection of mysticism with mythical narratives, we must see what
relationship to them there is in the views of the great thinkers, those who knew their wisdom
to be in harmony with the methods of the Mysteries. We find such harmony in Plato in the fullest
degree. His explanations of myths and his application of them in his teaching may be taken
as a model (cf. p. 78 et seq.). In the Phædrus, a dialogue on the soul, the myth of Boreas
is introduced. This divine being, who was seen in the rushing wind, one day saw the fair Orithyia,
daughter of the Attic king Erectheus, gathering flowers with her companions. Seized with love
for her, he carried her off to his grotto. Plato, by the mouth of Socrates, rejects a rationalist
interpretation of this myth. According to this explanation, an outward, natural fact is poetically
symbolised by the narrative. A hurricane seized the king's daughter and hurled her over the
rocks. "Interpretations of this sort," says Socrates, "are learned sophistries, however popular
and usual they may be.... For one who has pulled to pieces one of these mythological forms
must, to be consistent, elucidate sceptically and explain naturally all the rest in the same
way.... But even if such a labour could be accomplished, it would in any case be no proof of
superior talents in the one carrying it out, but only of superficial wit, boorish wisdom, and
ridiculous haste.... Therefore I leave on one side all such enquiries, and believe what is
generally thought about the myths. I do not examine them, as I have just said, but I examine
myself to see whether I too may perhaps be a monster, more complicated and therefore more disordered
than the chimæra, more savage than Typhon, or whether I represent a more docile and simple
being, to whom some particle of a virtuous and divine nature has been given."

We see from this that Plato does not approve of a rationalistic and merely intellectual interpretation
of myths. This attitude must be compared with the way in which he himself uses myths in order
to express himself through them. When he speaks of the life of the soul, when he leaves the
paths of the transitory and seeks the eternal in the soul, when, therefore, images borrowed
from sense-perception and reasoning thought can no longer be used, then Plato has recourse
to the myth. Phædrus treats of the eternal in the soul, which is portrayed as a car drawn by
two horses winged all over, and driven by a charioteer. One horse is patient and docile, the
other wild and headstrong. If an obstacle comes in the way of the car the troublesome horse
takes the opportunity of impeding the docile one and defying the driver. When the car arrives
where it has to follow the gods up the celestial steep, the intractable horse throws the team
into confusion. If it is less strong than the good horse, it is overcome, and the car is able
to go on into the supersensible realm. [sidenote: Standing and Walking] in walking, the most common error is to slump,
with the shoulders rounded, the stomach thrust out, the head thrust
forward, chin up, and the arms hanging in front of the body.

The correction of this habit will go far toward reforming an individual's
diet in every way. Thorough mastication means masticating up to the
point of involuntary swallowing.

It does not mean forcibly holding the food in the mouth, counting the chews, or otherwise making a
bore of eating.

[sidenote: Evidences of Injury] the odor and character of the stools
are indicative of the extent to which our diet is injuring us.

Before leaving the subject
of intestinal poisoning, we may here again mention the importance
of avoiding the poisoning which comes from too much protein. This poisoning
is probably due largely to the decomposition of protein in the colon.
[sidenote: Use of sour Milk] one proposed method for reducing this
decomposition of protein is through the use of sour milk. Lactic
acid, the acid of sour milk, constitutes a medium in which putrefactive
germs do not thrive. For instance, many people think that nuts never agree
with them, when the trouble really is that they do not masticate them properly.
Many think peanuts indigestible, not realizing either the importance
of mastication or the importance of avoiding over-roasting. The ordinary
peanuts are over-roasted. Peanuts very slightly roasted and very thoroughly
masticated seldom disagree with one. Others believe that bananas never
agree with them, when the fact is they eat them too green. The banana
vender usually finds that the ignorant public buys his fruit best
when its color is an even yellow, and he puts aside for himself the
only bananas ripe and fit to eat, namely those which are mottled with
black.

[sidenote: Avoidance of Fads] each individual must use his own intelligence
and common sense, avoiding so far as he can the mistake of following
a "fad" and accepting a theory without sufficient evidence; and the
opposite mistake of accepting as hygienic the customs about him simply
because they are customs, and thus mistaking for fads any conclusions
of science which are discordant with current custom.

The odor is less offensive if the diet is low in protein and thoroughly
masticated.

[sidenote: the first three Mouthfuls] at first one must give some conscious attention to his efforts to
reform; but if one will merely attend carefully to the first three mouthfuls
of a meal, the slow pace can often be established for the rest of
the meal without further thought. [sidenote: careful Tasting] slow eating
is important not merely as a matter of mastication, but also as a
matter of taste and enjoyment.

Food must have a pleasing taste and flavor and then must be enjoyed
in order to be most readily assimilated. [sidenote: increased Enjoyment]
there is a mistaken notion that the hygiene of food means "giving
up all the things that taste good." while it is true that, in many
cases, sacrifices have to be made, the net result of reforming one's
diet is not to diminish but to increase the enjoyment of food.

In general, it is extremely unhygienic to eat foods which are not relished. Experiments by Pavlov and
others have shown that the taste and enjoyment of food stimulate the flow of digestive juices. [sidenote:
choosing Foods] finally, slow eating is a great aid in the proper
choice of foods.

Foods should possess sufficient bulk to promote the action of the
intestines and should contain a due amount of laxative elements.

Foods which are especially laxative are prunes, figs, most fruits
except bananas, fruit juices, all fresh vegetables, usually greens
of all sorts, wheat, bran, and the whole grain cereals. Oils and fats
are also laxative but can not be used in sufficiently large quantities
to produce very laxative effects without producing loss of appetite.

Foods which have the opposite tendency are rice, boiled milk, fine
wheat-flour in bread, corn-starch, white of egg.

[sidenote: Bran and Agar-agar] the use of wheat-bran in cereals, in bread, and even in vegetables
is a preventive of constipation, as is also the use of agar-agar,
a japanese seaweed product.

This is not digested and absorbed, but acts as a water-carrier and
a sweep to the intestinal tract.

It should be taken without admixture with laxative drugs. [sidenote:
Mineral Oils] Paraffin oil is especially good as an intestinal lubricant
to assist the food to slip through the intestinal tube at the proper
rate of progress, provided the oil is first freed, by long-continued
shaking with water, from certain dangerous impurities.

Many refined preparations are on the market for use in constipation. Underweight people should
not use these oils unless properly prescribed by a physician. [sidenote: avoiding Drugs] it is advisable, in
general, to avoid cathartics except under medical supervision, since
certain drugs are often very harmful when their use is long continued
and the longer they are used the more dependent on them the user
becomes.

    
      
    
      Laxative drugs, even mineral waters, should never be used habitually.

    Some suggestions have already been given as to the wise choice of
      foods, but no rules
    can be formulated which will completely insure
      such a choice. Even the wisest physiologist can not depend altogether
on his knowledge of food values, while, to the layman, the problem
is so complicated that his main reliance must be on his own instincts.

Animals depend exclusively on instinct except when under domestication.
Civilized man should not and can not altogether depend upon instinct,
but his food instincts are far more keen and correct if he obeys the
rule of eating slowly than if he bolts his food.

[sidenote: "good" and "bad" Foods] in the choice of foods it is as difficult to distinguish
absolutely between what are "good" and "bad" foods as it is to classify
human beings into "good" and "bad." all we can say is that some foods
are better than others, remembering that it is especially more important
to be satisfied, even if the foods are not "ideal," than to be unsatisfied
with what in the abstract seem "ideal" foods.

Among the best foods for most people are fruits, potatoes, nuts (if
well masticated), milk, sour milk, and vegetables.

    Among the worst foods are putrefactive cheeses, sweetbreads,
      liver, kidneys, "high" game
    or poultry. But a fastidious study of foods will
      find some faults
    as well as some virtues in almost any food. The best
      way to help the
    ordinary man choose his foods is to advise him to use
      as much as possible of
    the "better"
      
    
      and as little as possible
    
      of the "worse" without attempting to draw a hard and fast line between
the "good" and "bad."

[sidenote: Salt, Pepper, Spices] Salt, pepper, and hot condiments should
be used very sparingly, if at all.

[sidenote: Sugar and Candy] a great cause of ill health is overuse
of sugar in concentrated form, candy, etc., especially by the sedentary.

One reason why sugar has a high food value is that it is readily utilized
for combustion, and if taken between meals greatly increases the
calories and may lead to overnourishment.

Hence, if sufficient sour-milk germs can be kept in the intestines to constantly manufacture lactic
acid, putrefaction will be reduced. But, as Professor Rettger and others have shown, the mere
swallowing of a little sour milk or of sour-milk tablets is seldom
sufficient.

The "good germs" swallowed die of starvation before they do much
good.

To keep them alive and enable them to multiply, we must feed them.
The free use of milk and of milk sugar, a little raw starch, or partially
cooked cereal such as Scotch brose (oatmeal cooked only ten minutes)
will feed the germs.

[sidenote: Water with Meals] there is, for normal people, no objection
to drinking a moderate amount of water at meals-- say one or two glassfuls--
provided it is not taken when food is in the mouth and used for washing
it down.

[sidenote: the Digestibility of so-called "indigestible" Foods] the science of dietetics will
develop rapidly in the future, and in a few years it will probably be possible to be more definite than we
have been here. At present there is much unknown, especially as to
how far our rules have to be modified for the particular individual.

Personal idiosyncrasies have to be taken into account.

Sometimes "what is one man's meat is another man's poison." on the other
hand, many have mistaken ideas as to their own idiosyncrasies. It merely
means giving up the habit of forcing food down, and applies to all
foods, even to liquid foods, which should be sipped.

[sidenote: Evils of insufficient Mastication] the consequences and
evils of insufficient mastication are many, and may be enumerated
as follows: insufficient use of the teeth and jaws (and hence dental
decay as well as other and worse dental evils); insufficient saliva
mixed with the food (and hence imperfect digestion of the starchy
substances); insufficient subdivision of food by mastication (and
hence slow digestion); the failure of the taste nerves to telegraph
ahead, as it were, to the stomach and other digestive organs an intimation
of the kind and amount of digestive juices required (and hence indigestion);
the overseasoning of food to make it relishable even when bolted (and
hence overeating and irritation of the mucous lining); the excessive
use of meat and eggs and like foods, which can be eaten rapidly with
relative impunity, and the corresponding neglect of other foods, like
bread, grains, vegetables, and salads, which require more mastication
(and hence intestinal poisoning).

[sidenote: prolonged Relish of Food] the habit of insufficient mastication is subtle, because it has become
"second nature" with most of us. To free ourselves of it we must first of all allow plenty of time for
our meals and rid our minds of the thought of hurry.

A boy's school in which the principal is endeavoring to fight the habit of food-bolting has wisely
ordained that no boy may leave the dining-room until a certain hour,
even if he has finished eating long before.

In this way the boy soon learns that there is nothing to be gained by fast eating, and, in fact,
that the pleasantest way of spending the meal-time is to prolong the relish of the food. It would be
well if all of us would adopt a similar rule for ourselves.

Mr. Gladstone
did something of the sort and was noted for the slow mastication of his food. Latterly Mr. Horace Fletcher
set such a rule for himself, and revived the interest of the public in the subject. [sidenote: Necessity
of medical Examination] it is a good idea to consult a physician in regard
to one's diet, and endeavor intelligently to follow his advice and not
insist on one's own diet, selected from the standpoint of mere self-indulgence
or custom. Moreover, since many, without being aware of the fact, are
affected with bright's disease, diabetes, etc., in their early stages,
in which dietetic precautions are especially necessary, it is well,
even for those who are apparently in good health, to be medically
examined as a preliminary to a rearrangement of their diet along the
best lines.

CHAPTER  iii POISONS Section  i-- Constipation if the human body
be likened to a steam-engine, its wastes correspond to the ashes.

[sidenote: Retention of Body wastes] the injury which comes from the retention
of the body's waste products is of the greatest importance. The intestinal
contents become dangerous by being too long retained, as putrefying fecal
matter contains poisons which are harmful to the body. Abnormal conditions
of the intestines are largely responsible for the common headache malady, and
for a generally lowered resistance, resulting in colds and even more
serious ailments.

Constipation is extremely prevalent, partly because our diet usually
lacks bulk or other needed constituents, but partly also because we
fail to eliminate regularly, thoroughly, and often.

Constipation, long continued, is by no means a trifling matter. It represents a constant and cumulative
tax which often ends in very serious consequences. [sidenote: Water-Drinking]
free water-drinking when the stomach is empty, especially before
breakfast, is beneficial in constipation.

Free water-drinking at meals may prove constipating. Excess of water should be avoided by the very feeble
or those suffering from heart trouble or dropsy. [sidenote: laxative Foods]
the best regulators of the bowels are foods. [sidenote: Enemas] the occasional,
but not habitual, use of an enema (with warm water followed always by
a second enema of cool water, to prevent relaxation) is a temporary
expedient.

[sidenote: massage of the Colon] massage of the abdomen, deep and
thorough, with a creeping movement of the ends of the fingers on the
left side of the abdomen from above downward, also promotes the process
of defecation.

The normal man and woman should find no difficulty in having complete
movements regularly two or three times a day by merely living a reasonable
life, being careful especially to avoid overfatigue, to include sufficient
bulk in the food, to take regular exercise, including, in particular,
breathing exercises, and to maintain an erect carriage.

[sidenote: low seated Water Closets] high-seated water closets, so
often found in institutions, hotels and private houses, often favor
constipation, as they do not permit of the proper physiological attitude
in defecation.

They prevent the individual from exercising abdominal
pressure so essential for this function.

Such seats should be made much lower than they are, or the feet should
rest on a foot stool, in order to attain the proper attitude for thorough
emptying of the intestine.

[sidenote: Number of Defecations] Observations on the manlike apes show that they defecate three or four
times a day. Few of the human family have such ideal movements.
Millions are conscious of some shortcoming in this regard, and doubtless
millions more suffer from some shortcomings of which they are not
conscious.

Many believe they have free movements when actually they are suffering from a sluggishness in the
rectum and other parts of the lower intestine. A rectal examination
often reveals unsuspected fecal residues.

[sidenote: establishing proper Habits] the natural instinct to defecate, like many other natural
instincts, is usually deadened by failure to exercise it. Civilized life
makes it inconvenient to follow this instinct as promptly as, for
instance, a horse does.

The impulse to go to stool, if neglected even five minutes, may disappear.

There are few health measures more simple and effective than restoring
the normal sensitiveness of this important impulse.

It may require a few weeks of special care, during which cold water
enemas at night, following evacuation by paraffin oil injection, may
be needed.

It would be an excellent rule to visit the closet immediately after the noon
and evening meals, as faithfully as most people do after the morning
meal, until the reflex is trained to act at those, the most natural,
times for its action.

Section  ii-- Posture one of the simplest and most effective methods
of avoiding self-poisoning is by maintaining an erect posture.

In an erect posture the abdominal muscles tend to remain taut and to afford
proper support or pressure to the abdomen, including the great splanchnic
circulation of large blood-vessels. In an habitual slouching posture, the
blood of the abdomen tends to stagnate in the liver and the splanchnic circulation,
causing a feeling of despondency and mental confusion, headache, coldness
of the hands and feet, and chronic fatigue or neurasthenia, and often
constipation. A slouching attitude is often the result of disease or
lack of vitality; but it is also a cause. [sidenote: the "consumptive stoop"]
there is some reason to believe that "the consumptive stoop" leads
to tuberculosis partly through the lowering of resistance resulting
from the poisoning produced by a chronically relaxed abdomen.

Many persons who have suffered for years from the above-named symptoms
have been relieved of them after a few weeks of correct posture, sometimes
reenforced by the artificial pressure of an abdominal supporter and
by special exercises to strengthen the abdominal muscles.

Lying face downward with a pillow under the abdomen presses the blood
out of the congested splanchnic circulation. [sidenote: Breathing
and Posture] breathing exercises are also very useful for correcting
the chronic evils of bad posture.

Exercises taken when lying on the back, by raising the legs or head,
strengthen the abdominal muscles. Slow, deep breathing, through the nose,
while lying on the back, with a weight on the abdomen, such as a
bag of sand-- 2 to 4 lbs.-- is beneficial.

 Prometheus
is thus the representative of those worlds which have given man the progressive element, half
nature-force, half spiritual force, man's will. The will points on the one side towards good,
on the other, towards evil. Its fate is decided according as it leans to the spiritual or the
perishable. This fate is that of man himself. He is chained to the perishable, the eagle gnaws
him, he has to suffer. He can only reach the highest by seeking his destiny in solitude. He
has a secret which is that the divine (Zeus) must marry a mortal (human consciousness bound
up with the physical body), in order to beget a son, human wisdom (the Logos) which will deliver
the deity. By this means consciousness becomes immortal. He must not betray this secret till
a Mystic (Heracles) comes to him, and annihilates the power which was perpetually threatening
him with death. A being half animal, half human, a centaur, is obliged to sacrifice itself
to redeem man. The centaur is man himself, half animal, half spiritual. He must die in order
that the purely spiritual man may be delivered. That which is disdained by Prometheus, human
will, is accepted by Epimetheus, reason or prudence. But the gifts offered to Epimetheus are
only troubles and sorrows, for reason clings to the transitory and perishable. And only one
thing is left--the hope that even out of the perishable the eternal may some day be born.

The thread running through the legends of the Argonauts, Heracles and Prometheus, is continued
in Homer's Odyssey. Here we find ourselves compelled to use our own method of interpretation.
But on closer consideration of everything which has to be taken into account, even the sturdiest
doubter must lose all scruples about such an interpretation. In the first place, it is a startling
fact that it is also related of Odysseus that he descended into the nether-world. But then the men only,
but also every woman and child found upon the haugh. Sept. 6.] [sidenote b: a. D. one. The part had
formed themselves into a sinful body, and kept the enemy at bay till their offer of surrender upon
terms had been accepted. Sept. 13.] cold blood, does not the ministers loudly demanded their lives; they
pronounced the capitulation compact, and therefore void; and had
the satisfaction to behold the asunder back body of captives massacred
in [sidenote a: a. D. in.

 They become a delineation of the non-sensuous, of the soul's progress
of development. Hence the narrative in the Odyssey is different from what is demanded by a
history of outer events. The hero makes voyages in enchanted ships. Actual geographical distances
are dealt with in most arbitrary fashion. It is not in the least a question of what is physically
real. This becomes comprehensible, if the physically real events are only related for the sake
of illustrating the development of a soul. Moreover the poet himself at the opening of the
book says that it deals with a search for the soul:

"O Muse, sing to me of the man full of resource, who wandered very much after he had destroyed
the sacred city of Troy, and saw the cities of many men, and learned their manners. Many griefs
also in his mind did he suffer on the sea, although seeking to preserve his own soul, and the
return of his companions."

We have before us a man seeking for the soul, for the divine, and his wanderings during this
search are narrated. He comes to the land of the Cyclopes. These are uncouth giants, with only
one eye and that in the centre of the forehead. The most terrible, Polyphemus, devours several
of Odysseus' companions. Odysseus himself escapes by blinding the Cyclopes. Here we have to
do with the first stage of life's pilgrimage. Physical force or the lower nature has to be
overcome. It devours any one who does not take away its power, who does not blind it. Odysseus
next comes to the island of the enchantress Circe. She changes some of his companions into
grunting pigs. She also is subdued by Odysseus. Circe is the lower mind-force, which cleaves
to the transitory. If misused, it may thrust men down even deeper into bestiality. Odysseus
has to overcome it. Then he is able to descend into the nether-world. He becomes a Mystic.
Now he is exposed to the dangers which beset the Mystic on his progress from the lower to the
higher degrees of initiation. He comes to the Sirens, who lure the passer-by to death by sweet
magic sounds. These are the forms of the lower imagination, which are at first pursued by one
who has freed himself from the power of the senses. He has got so far that his spirit acts
freely, but is not initiated. He pursues illusions, from the power of which he must break loose.
Odysseus has to accomplish the awful passage between Scylla and Charybdis. The Mystic, at the
beginning of the path wavers between spirit and sensuousness. He cannot yet grasp the full
value of spirit, yet sensuousness has already lost its former attraction. [footnote 176: major Albrecht fought
his guns with great determination; his infantry escort, according
to Boer accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of the british,
and his ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners stood their
ground.] [sidenote: Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]
[sidenote: Nov. 28th/ 99.] [sidenote: Lord methuen being wounded command
devolves on colvile.] Captain forestier-Walker, who was now in action
with the section of the 18th battery near the farm which had been
carried earlier in the day by the King's own Yorkshire Light Infantry,
vigorously shelled the trees and brushwood in front of our men as
they advanced, but his efforts were much hampered by the fact that
the undergrowth was so thick that it was impossible to see exactly
how far forward they were.

All attempts to establish communication by signal, between the officer
commanding the 9th brigade and the troops on the south side of the
river, failed.

The attack
broke down from want of strength to drive it home, and the baffled
troops sullenly fell back to Rosmead.

They were then closely pressed by the enemy's musketry
that, in order to cover the retreat, two officers, major H. F. Coleridge,
North Lancashire, and Captain T. Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders,
each with ten or eleven men of different battalions, threw themselves
into farmhouses, which they stubbornly defended until, many hours
later, after their detachments had suffered severe loss, they were
ordered to evacuate their posts.

On his return to the village major-general Pole-Carew
found that the british strength on the north bank had been increased
by the arrival of 300 officers and men of the royal engineers, and of part
of a company of the 2nd battalion of the Coldstream Guards. After writing
to Lord methuen to report his failure to force his way back the right
bank, and to ask for co-operation in the fresh attempt for which he
was then rallying his troops, Pole-Carew heard a rumour that Lord
methuen had been wounded, and that Major-general colvile was now in
command of the division.

The rumour was true. Lord methuen had been wounded at about 4 p. M. Near the centre of the line, and one
of his staff officers, Colonel H. P. Northcott, had previously fallen mortally wounded, while conveying
orders for the reinforcement of the troops on the north bank. Not soon after this news came in, the officer
commanding the two guns of the 18th battery, still in action near
the farm to the south of Rosmead, reported that he heard through the
officer commanding the artillery that Major-general colvile had issued orders
for a vigorous bombardment of the position by the artillery till dusk,
when the Guards were to attack the left of the Boer line with the bayonet.
Pole-Carew so considered whether, in view of the projected movement
of the Guards'brigade, his local attack was still feasible.

He decided that, owing to the configuration of the ground over which both bodies of troops would
have to move in the darkness, the danger was so great lest his detachment should enfilade the Guards
as to prohibit an advance from Rosmead.

All, therefore, that could be done was to secure firmly that village. [sidenote: 62nd battery with
four guns arrives after forced march.] While the little column had been striving in vain to
force its way up the right bank of the river, the situation on the left bank
had remained unchanged.

       The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory fire-fight
with an unseen enemy, while the artillery continued to shell the buildings
and the river-banks near the railway bridge. During the course of the afternoon
Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery, had received a welcome reinforcement
of four guns of the 62nd battery, under major E. J. Granet. The 62nd,
which had been left to guard the Orange River bridge, received orders
late on the 26th to leave two guns at that camp, and proceed with
all speed to rejoin Lord methuen's division. Owing to a deficiency in
rolling stock, no railway transport was available, and it became necessary
for the battery to march the whole way.

Starting at 10 a. M. On the 27th, major Granet reached Belmont, thirty miles distant, at dusk. He
halted there till 6 a. M. On the 28th, when, escorted by twenty-five of the
royal Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry, he marched to Honey nest
kloof, where he decided to water and feed his horses. He had but just
halted, when a message reached him that there was fighting on the
Riet river and that guns and ammunition were urgently required there.

He started immediately, and despite the heavy ground over which he
had to pass, reached the battlefield the little after 2 p. M. In twenty-eight
hours the 62nd battery had covered sixty-two miles, at the expense
of six horses which fell dead in the traces, and of about forty more,
which now amounted in all to about 2,300 men.

With this force, weak though it was in guns and mounted troops, he
intended to dispute the Boer advance from the north, falling back,
if necessary, on the prepared position at Maritzburg.

A telegram, dated 4th November, conveyed general Buller's approval of these dispositions, but added:
"do not risk losing Durban by over-prolonged defence crosses the
Tugela.

The battalion of mounted infantry was being raised at Maritzburg by lieut.-Colonel
Thorneycroft, royal Scots Fusiliers, and another at Durban by lieut.-Colonel
Bethune, 16th Lancers.

[footnote 180: see Chapter x.] [sidenote: threatened siege changes situation.]
the result of the battle of 30th October made it probable that the field
force at Ladysmith would be soon cut off from its communications.

To keep the road open to the south, Sir George white that evening reinforced
the garrison of Colenso by despatching thither by rail from Ladysmith
the 2nd royal Dublin Fusiliers, a company of mounted infantry, and
the Natal Field battery, whose obsolete 7-pounder guns had been grievously
outranged at elandslaagte.

On arrival at Colenso, the commanding officer of the Dublin, Colonel C. D.
Cooper, assumed command of that post, finding there one squadron of the
Natal Carbineers, one squadron imperial Light Horse, a party of mounted
Police, and the Durban Light Infantry (about 380 strong), and a detachment
(fifty strong) of the Natal naval Volunteers, with two 9-pounder guns.

The total strength of the command, including the reinforcements from Ladysmith,
was approximately 1,200 men. The Natal royal Rifles (150 strong) were encamped
at Estcourt, twenty-five miles in rear.

[sidenote: an anxious fortnight, Oct. 31st-Nov. 14th.] on the following day general white telegraphed
to the Governor of the colony:" my intention is to hold Ladysmith, make attacks on the enemy's
position whenever possible, and retain the greatest number of the enemy
here. "Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson and the officer commanding the Natal line
of communication, Brigadier-General J. S. Wolfe Murray, were thus confronted
with a difficult and anxious situation. It was obvious that, having regard
to the numerical superiority and greater mobility of the enemy, the
british force at Ladysmith would, in all probability, be unable to
retain the whole of the Boer army.

A raid on southern Natal was therefore to be expected immediately, and
the strength of that raid might well be such as to overwhelm, or, at
any rate, to ignore, the weak garrisons which so imperfectly covered
Maritzburg and Durban. Eastward, general Murray was aware that even if
Sir R. Buller should think fit to divert from Cape Colony any portion
of the expeditionary force now on the high seas, a fortnight must
elapse before a single man could be landed at Durban.

[sidenote: provisional steps in case of Boer raid.] Maritzburg, from
its topographical environment, is even less adapted by nature for
defence than Ladysmith.

Lying in a deep depression surrounded by high hills, the positions covering
the capital of the colony are so extensive that a very large force would
be needed for their effective occupation. Nevertheless, after consultation
on the afternoon of 31st October with the Governor and the prime Minister
of the colony (Colonel Hime), the Brigadier-general decided that,
although it was impossible to protect the town itself, it was advisable
to prepare the cantonments, so-called"

Fort Napier, "for defence, and for that purpose to borrow naval guns
from the ships at Durban.

As regards Durban, a telegram was received from Sir Alfred Milner stating that arrangements had been made by Sir
Redvers Buller with the admiral for the immediate despatch to that
port of H. M. S. Terrible and Forte as a reinforcement to the Tartar
and Philomel, already in the harbour, and suggesting that in the case
of a complete disaster to Sir G. White's force it would be wise to
retire on the seaport and there make a stand.

[sidenote: Changes of stations, Nov. 2nd and 3rd, in expectation of raid.] but the responsible military
authorities were by no means inclined to take a pessimistic view of the situation.
The final instructions, dated 1st November, received from Sir G. White's Chief
of the Staff, directed general Murray" to remain and defend Maritzburg
to the last, "and on the following day Sir R. Buller telegraphed
from Capetown that a division would be despatched as soon as possible
to Natal, adding:" do all you can to hold on to Colenso till troops
arrive.

"meanwhile, a warning had been received from the Intelligence staff at Ladysmith, that the considerable
body of free Staters was moving on Colenso, and Brigadier-general
Murray, realising that the situation of Colonel Cooper's force at
the bridge, commanded by the heights on the northern bank of the Tugela,
was becoming precarious, directed that officer to fall back on Estcourt,
should he consider his position no longer tenable.

On the afternoon of November 2nd, telegraphic communication between Colenso
and Ladysmith was cut off by the enemy, and a large Boer commando,
having occupied the high ground near Grobelaars kloof (map no. 15),
opened fire on the two little works, Forts Wylie and Molyneux, which
had been constructed by the Natal Volunteers on the left bank of the
Tugela to cover the crossings of that river, and the approaches to
Langewacht Spruit.

The Natal Field battery and Natal naval Volunteers'guns were again
seriously outranged by the Boer artillery, and Colonel Cooper decided
that, having regard to his instructions, he must fall back on Estcourt.

The withdrawal to that town was effected on the night of November 2nd-3rd
without molestation from the enemy, the infantry being conveyed in special
trains, the mounted troops and field artillery moving by road.

The 1st battalion Border regiment was simultaneously pushed forward by rail from Maritzburg to
Estcourt, and Brigadier-general Murray proceeded, on 3rd November,
to the latter station to take personal command of the force there
concentrated, which never recovered from the fatigue of this forced
march.

The battery was first sent to the left to support the advance up
the north bank of the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel
Hall ordered major Granet more to the moreover, as he was afraid that
the shells might fall among the detachment during its progress through
the trees and brushwood which concealed its movements.

At 2.45 p. M., the 62nd came into action 1,200 yards from the south bank, behind a swell in the
ground which covered the gunners from the waist downwards.

Its fire, aimed first at the north bank, was distributed laterally, and then for depth, with good
results, as the enemy's musketry slackened, and numbers of men were seen stealing away. About
5 p. M., to support the projected attack by the Guards, the battery
was moved close to a sandpit on the west of the railway, where it
was joined by the section of the 18th from the left of the line.

[sidenote: colvile breaks off the fight.] after considerable delay, caused by the difficulty of sending messages
across the shot-swept plain, major-general colvile was informed that Lord methuen had been wounded,
and that the command of the division had devolved upon him. He handed over the Guards'brigade
to Colonel Paget, Scots Guards, with orders to collect his battalions
for the attack upon the left of the Boer line, but soon afterwards
decided that it was too late to risk the passage of the river at night
with troops exhausted by hunger, thirst, and the burning heat of an
exceptionally hot day.

He therefore resolved to break off the fight till daybreak next morning, and directed Colonel Paget
to form up his brigade for the night at the southern reservoir.
[sidenote: Pole-Carew holds rosmead, and concentrates 9th brigade
on north bank.] [sidenote: Boers abandon position.

Night, Nov. 28-29.] as soon as major-general Pole-Carew reluctantly
abandoned the idea of renewing his attack along the north bank of
the Riet, he posted his troops for the defence of Rosmead.

He realised
the risks which he ran in holding so isolated a position throughout
the night, but he and his staff considered that a importance of maintaining
the lodgment, which had been effected on the enemy's side of the Riet,
made it worth while to incur the danger.

To the
royal engineers, under major G. F. Leverson, was allotted the western
face of the village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held the north,
and the loyal North Lancashire the north-east; the Argyll and Sutherland
guarded the east.

The men lined the walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart,
in groups of six, of whom five rested while one stood sentry.

In the centre of the village was the reserve, two companies of the Northumberland
Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards. The remainder
of the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river. To guide them,
two fires were lit at the drift; and by daybreak the whole command was
concentrated on the north bank. It was reinforced by the 1st Highland Light
Infantry, who had arrived during the night by rail from Orange River.

In the grey of the morning, while the Guards were preparing to support
the 9th brigade, the guns [177] re-opened fire upon Modder River village,
but it was long discovered that during the night the enemy had abandoned
his position, and had disappeared with all his guns and pom-poms.

With horses utterly tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible,
though by midday patrols of mounted men had regained touch with such
of the Boers as had fallen back upon Magersfontein.

By the afternoon, the whole division had crossed the Riet, and was
concentrated on its northern bank.

[footnote 177: on the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition
as follows:-- 18th 1,029 rounds 62nd 247"

75th 1,008 "the naval guns 260"] [sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.]
the british casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom
was lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford, commanding the battalion Coldstream
Guards) and 19 wounded; among the other ranks 67 were killed, and
370 wounded.

[178] the losses among the Boers are not satisfactorily known, but
23 burghers were found dead in Rosmead and buried near the village,
while 27 bodies were subsequently found in the river itself. [footnote
178: for details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.] CHAPTER xvi. The
RAID on southern NATAL.

[179] [footnote 179: see map no. 4.] [sidenote: the relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.]
throughout the operations in Natal during the opening phase of the
war, Sir G. White had held that a mobile force, concentrated north
of the Tugela, afforded better protection to the central and southern
portions of the colony than any number of detachments stationed on
the lines of communication.

Face to face as he was with an enemy in superior strength, the retention
with his field force of every available unit was essential to the british
commander's plan of striking at his opponents whenever an opportunity offered.
Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson, although anxious as to the security of Maritzburg
and Natal from Boer raids, accepted Sir George's decision, telegraphing
to the general on 26th October: "i shall do my best in consultation
with general Wolfe Murray.... i think we shall be able to deal with
any small raid, but the raid in force, especially if supported by
guns, will be a serious matter.

We must take the risk, and hope for the best." on October 30th, the
date of the battle of Lombards kop, [180] the only regular unit on
the Natal line of communication was the 1st Border regiment, which
had arrived at Maritzburg that morning from East London.

Detachments of colonial troops held Colenso bridge and Estcourt.
To the eastward the Umvoti Rifles, a mounted corps rather more than one
hundred strong, had been ordered to fall back from Helpmakaar and
watch the ferry, by which the Dundee-greytown road of Maritzburg,
but hold the latter so long as you safely can.

I fear it will be at least ten days before I can send you substantial assistance. "[sidenote: after
much delay, on Nov. 13th/ 99, 4,200 Boers under Joubert and Botha reach Colenso.] fortunately, until
the last but one of these ten days, the enemy held up on the north
bank of the Tugela.

A Krijgsraad, at which all the Boer generals and commandants attended, had assembled
in front of Ladysmith on 1st November to decide whether the main effort of the
Boer army should be concentrated on the attack of that town, or whether,
leaving a detachment to hold Sir G. White's troops, they should at
once advance on Maritzburg and Durban.

Some of the younger leaders, including Louis Botha, as yet only plain
commandant, were in favour of the latter course.

The majority of the council decided that, so long as 12,000 effective
british troops remained at Ladysmith, a commandos were not numerous
enough to allow them to win the much-coveted prizes of the capital
and seaport of Natal.

It was believed that general white's troops would be unable to withstand
an assault. On the 9th November, therefore, an abortive and ill-arranged
attack was made.

It sufficed to show that the Ladysmith garrison was by no means disposed
to yield, and that a formal and perhaps prolonged investment would
be needed to weaken its powers of resistance. To this task, therefore,
the main body of the Boer commandos was assigned; but, as an erroneous
report had come in that 5,000 english troops had concentrated at
Frere, it was decided that a strong reconnaissance, under the personal
command of General Joubert, should cross the Tugela to ascertain the
disposition and strength of a british column.

On the evening, therefore, of the 13th November, a force about 4,200 strong was assembled at Colenso
with orders to push to the south. As agreed, Joubert, although transvaal
Commandant-General, went with it. Louis Botha, promoted to the rank
of" fighting general, "was second in command. There is reason to believe
that the presence of the senior general was due to a desire to restrain
the impetuosity of his subordinate.

[sidenote: defensive measures taken during the time of grace given by Boer delay.]
the fifteen days'breathing space which the authorities in southern
Natal had thus been given, after receipt of the disquieting intelligence
of the battle of Lombards kop, had been of great value.

Captain Percy Scott, H. M. S. Terrible, had reached Durban on November
6th, and was appointed commandant of that town.

The defence scheme was prepared and a battalion of" imperial Light
Infantry "was raised to assist the naval contingent, [181] and guns
(including two 4.7-in.

Guns and sixteen
12-pr. 12-cwt.) were landed for its protection. At Maritzburg a position in
the vicinity of Fort Napier had, under the supervision of Col. C. C.
Rawson, C. R. E., been prepared for defence, the work being executed
by a hastily improvised Pioneer Corps of artisans, assisted by native
labour.

In selecting this position and planning its defence, it was assumed that if the force at Estcourt fell
back on Maritzburg, 4,000 men in all would be available for its occupation.
Meanwhile, in addition to Thorneycroft's corps, the recruiting and
training of which were proceeding accurately, a provisional garrison
was arranged for Maritzburg by the despatch of two 12-pounders and
a naval detachment from a fleet at Durban, by the withdrawal of the
detachment of the naval Volunteers from Estcourt, and by the organisation
into a Town Guard of all able-bodied citizens willing to carry a rifle.

Moreover,
some 150 loyal and zealous Natal colonists volunteered for scouting duties, and were formed into
a corps under the command of the hon. T. K. Murray, C. M. G., finding
their own horses, saddlery, and rifles, and serving without pay.

This body of patriotic men did useful work to the north of Maritzburg,
in the neighbourhood of Mooi River, from the 4th to the 16th November,
when on the arrival of reinforcements from the Cape they were released from
further duty, and thanked in general Orders for their" excellent
service.

"[footnote 181: this contingent who consisted of parties from the terrible, Forte, Thetis, Philomel
and Tartar, of a total strength of 35 officers and 423 men. Commander
Limpus, R. N., was placed in command of the guns (see p. 120).] [sidenote:
Nov. 11th/ 99.

Reinforcements begin to disembark.

Sir F. Clery takes command, Nov. 15th.] on 11th November general Murray, with the approval of Sir R. Buller,
handed over the command of the Estcourt garrison to Colonel Charles
long, R. H. A., and returned to Maritzburg to direct personally the heavy
work falling on a line of communication staff in arranging for the
disembarkation and equipment of the reinforcements, whose arrival
at Durban was now hourly expected.



The Mysteries handed down traditionally the means of arriving at truth; the Christian community
itself propagates the truth. To the confidence in the mystical forces which spring up in the
inmost being of man, during initiation, was added the confidence in the One, primordial Initiator.

The Mystics sought to become divine, they wished to experience divinity. Jesus was divine,
we must hold fast to Him, and then we shall become partakers of His divinity, in the community
founded by Him; this became Christian conviction. What became divine in Jesus was made so for
all His followers. "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." The one who was
born in Bethlehem has an eternal character independent of time. The Christmas anthem thus speaks
of the birth of Jesus, as if it took place each Christmas, "Christ is born to-day, the Saviour
has come into the world to-day, to-day the angels are singing on earth."

In the Christ-experience is to be seen a definite stage of initiation. When the Mystic of pre-Christian
times passed through this Christ-experience, he was, through his initiation, in a state which
enabled him to perceive something spiritually,--in higher worlds,--to which no fact in the
world of sense corresponded. He experienced that which surrounds the Mystery of Golgotha in
the higher world. If the Christian Mystic goes through this experience by initiation, he at
the same time beholds the historical event which took place on Golgotha, and knows that in
that event, enacted within the physical world, there is the same content as was formerly only
in the supersensible facts of the Mysteries. Thus there was poured out on the Christian community,
through the "Mysteries of Golgotha," that which formerly had been poured out on the Mystics
within the temples. And initiation gives Christian Mystics the possibility of becoming conscious
of what is contained in the "Mystery of Golgotha," whereas faith makes man an unconscious partaker
of the mystical stream which flowed from the events depicted in the New Testament, and which
has ever since been pervading the spiritual life of humanity.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] The great initiates raised themselves through initiation up into the sphere of the Logos
and carried this Logos influence with them in their human life. The fundamental difference
between them and Jesus was the fact that the Logos in the course of its evolution individualised
itself into One Divine Individuality who descended into Jesus of Nazareth at the Baptism, and
so that the Logos manifested its whole Divine individuality through the personality of Jesus
as far as it was possible to express Divinity by human means. Such was the unique character
of the Christ Jesus.

VII

THE GOSPELS

The accounts of the life of Jesus which can be submitted to historical examination are contained
in the Gospels. All that does not come from this source might, in the opinion of one of those
who are considered the greatest historical authorities on the subject (Harnack), be "easily
written on a quarto page."

But what kind of documents are these Gospels? The fourth, that of St. John, differs so much
from the others, that those who think themselves obliged to follow the path of historical research
in order to study the subject, come to the conclusion: "If John possesses the genuine tradition
about the life of Jesus, that of the first three Evangelists (the Synoptists) is untenable.
If the Synoptists are right, the Fourth Gospel must be rejected as a historical source" (Otto
Schmiedel, Die Hauptprobleme der Leben Jesu Forschung, p. 15). This is a statement made from
the standpoint of the historical investigator.

In the present work, in which we are dealing with the mystical contents of the Gospels, such
a point of view is neither to be accepted nor rejected. But attention must certainly be drawn
to such an opinion as the following: "Measured by the standard of consistency, inspiration,
and completeness, these writings leave very much to be desired, and even measured by the ordinary
human standard, they suffer from not a few imperfections." This is the opinion of a Christian
theologian (Harnack, Wesen des Christentums).

One who takes his stand on a mystical origin of the Gospels easily finds an explanation of
what is apparently contradictory, and also discovers harmony between the fourth Gospel and
the three others. For none of these writings are meant to be mere historical tradition in the
ordinary sense of the word. They do not profess to give a historical biography (cf. p. 140
et seq.). What they intended to give was already shadowed forth in the traditions of the Mysteries,
as the typical life of a Son of God. It was these traditions which were drawn upon, not history.
Now it was only natural that these traditions should not be in complete verbal agreement in
every Mystery centre. Still, the agreement was so close that the Buddhists narrated the life
of their divine man almost in the same way in which the Evangelists narrated the life of Christ.
But naturally there were differences. We have only to assume that the four Evangelists drew
from four different mystery traditions. It testifies to the extraordinary personality of Jesus
that in four writers, belonging to different traditions, he awakened the belief that he was
one who so perfectly corresponded with their type of an initiate, that they were able to describe
him as one who lived the typical life marked out in their Mysteries. They each described his
life according to their own mystic traditions. And if the narratives of the first three Evangelists
resemble each other, it proves nothing more than that they drew from similar mystery traditions.
The fourth Evangelist saturated his Gospel with ideas which are, in many respects, reminiscent
of the religious philosopher, Philo (cf. p. 82). This only proves that he was rooted in the
same mystic tradition as Philo.

There are various elements in the Gospels. Firstly, facts are related, which seem to lay claim
to being historical. Secondly, there are parables, in which the narrative form is only used
to symbolise a deeper truth. And, thirdly, there are teachings characteristic of the Christian
conception of life. In St. John's Gospel there is no real parable. The source from which he
drew was a mystical school which considered parables unnecessary.

The part played by ostensibly historical facts and parables in the first three Gospels is clearly
shown in the narrative of the cursing of the fig tree. In St. Mark xi. In the corresponding
passage in St. Luke's Gospel, he relates a parable (xiii. This is a parable symbolising the
uselessness of the old teaching, represented by the barren fig tree. That which is meant metaphorically,
St. Mark relates as a fact appearing to be historical. We may therefore assume that, in general,
facts related in the Gospels are not to be taken as only historical, or as if they were only
to hold good in the physical world, but as mystical facts; as experiences, for the recognition
of which spiritual vision is necessary, and which arise from various mystical traditions. If
we admit this, the difference between the Gospel of St. John and the Synoptists ceases to exist.
For mystical interpretation, historical research has not to be taken into account. Even if
one or another Gospel were written a few decades earlier or later than the others, they are
all of like historical value to the mystic, St. John's Gospel as well as the others.

And the "miracles" do not present the least difficulty when interpreted mystically. They are
supposed to break through the laws of nature. They only do this when they are considered as
events which have so come about on the physical plane, in the perishable world, that ordinary
sense-perception could see through them offhand. But if they are experiences which can only
be fathomed on a higher stage of existence, namely the spiritual, it is obvious that they cannot
be understood by means of the laws of physical nature.

It is thus first of all necessary to read the Gospels correctly; then we shall know in what
way they are speaking of the Founder of Christianity. Their intention is to relate his life
in the manner in which communications were made through the Mysteries. They relate it in the
way in which a Mystic would speak of an initiate. Only, they give the initiation as the unique
characteristic of one unique being. And they make salvation depend on man's holding fast to
the initiate of this unique order. What had come to the initiates was the "kingdom of God."
This unique being has brought the kingdom to all who will cleave to him. What was formerly
the personal concern of each individual has become the common concern of all those who are
willing to acknowledge Jesus as their Lord.

We can understand how this came about if we admit that the wisdom of the Mysteries was imbedded
in the popular religion of the Jews. December 27. I would especially call the attention of fair-minded
men to the last sentences. Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged 18) of the 2nd
Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed in the Times
of November 19, 1914: We are treated very well indeed here. We have
good beds and fires in the rooms, three good meals a day, and a French
soldier for a servant, and this morning I had a splendid hot bath.

We have
roll call twice a day, at 8 a. m. and 9.45 p. m., and lights out at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard
to walk about in. One was from a cavalry subaltern in a German fortress:
You ask about money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’
s food.

The officers get 16s. a week and buy their own.

Quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I had brought down his machine with
my machine-gun, and he had to land quite close to where I landed.

We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support of
this view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany
has been convincingly described by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M. P. (Daily
Mail, November 8, 1916, and Reprint): I did not approach this subject
quite“ new to the game.” I had already visited general post offices
in England, Switzerland and elsewhere, and had seen thousands, literally
thousands, of food parcels intended for our prisoners of war in Germany
falling to bits and incapable of being forwarded for want of skilled
packing.

The sight was enough to make angels weep. Please secure information
for Department to forward German Foreign Office whether money and other postal
matter will be delivered to such prisoners promptly and intact.— BRYAN,
Washington.” There is no doubt that many letters and parcels have not
reached German prisoners in England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.) In spite of this, I have no doubt
that the British authorities have done their best to expedite delivery. I would suggest that this is probably
the case on the other side, too. The Germans transferred the contents to
a sack, and, as he said, the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs
must have been great. My informant also spoke of the very thorough
inoculation against disease. ALTDAMM. On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm
reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp at Altdamm near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp
at Stargard on which he had reported previously.“ It appears to me
that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners of war as
humanely as possible in the two camps I visited.

Dry and warm shelter is provided, the
food is simple and perhaps monotonous, but of good material and well
prepared, sanitary arrangements are good, and the health of the men
is carefully looked after.” RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to
by the German Government, and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward Grey
wrote to Mr. Page (the American Ambassador in London) complaining
that no definite replies to his questions were forthcoming.“ His Majesty’
s Government,” he continues,“ have only unofficial information and
rumours on the subject to guide them, which they trust do not accurately
represent the facts.” The“ unofficial information and rumours” had,
however, attained wide publicity, and obtained still more later.

The German authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints. The reports now to
be cited were made after this date.

[Misc. 11 (1915)]. I propose to give examples of almost all the earlier reports, for it was in the
earlier stages of the war that there was most difficulty everywhere in providing
accommodation for prisoners.

We ought not to forget that the earliest reports on our own camps which the British Government have published
begin with February, 1916. [2] DŒBERITZ. To think that so much self-sacrifice had been exercised
in humble homes to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken
cigarettes, and what not, in order that these should reach son or
brother or sweetheart in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving
hands, that in the first rough and tumble of the position the paper
burst, the string came undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels
fell in an inextricable jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take
opportunities for mean thefts.

We have all had experience of that during this war, and the following cutting from the Daily News
of October 5, 1915, may be given in illustration: In a letter of thanks
to the secretary of the committee of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen,
formed for the purpose of sending comforts to the troops, Sir Ian
Hamilton says: I am extremely touched by the extraordinary generosity
and kindness of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen.

I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are
indebted for this most handsome contribution.

Pray heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid some of the gifts, and
will arrive in good condition. If there are, alas, not a few men who
will steal from their comrades, there are not likely to be fewer who
will steal from their enemies. Speaking generally, however, the delivery
of parcels on both sides soon became commendably regular.

The care shown on the German side is warmly praised by Captain
Gilbert Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate good deeds even
after enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from
others.

The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better
than civilians.

In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,” Captain Nobbs writes: I was very much impressed with the fair and
systematic handling of our parcels, letters and money; even letters and postcards which arrived
for me after I had been sent back to England, were re-addressed and sent
back.

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after I had left was
odd returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the pressing
need of the German War Loan.— (Daily News, January 25, 1918.) An acquaintance
of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke to me to the same
effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had become quite shattered in transit
(p. p. 7). Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs.
We have quite good matches.... It is better not to try to send any
public news of any kind from England; people having been stupid trying
to smuggle letters in cakes and things, and it only makes trouble
for everyone.

A Captain
writes: For dinner at 1 p. m. we are given soup, meat and vegetables....
Supper takes place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea, sausages or
meat and potatoes.... We receive£ 5 a month as pay, of which 1s.

6d. is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want,...
so there is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps those
small 7d. editions of novels.

An English lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich: I must tell you I had
permission to visit a wounded English officer, a cousin, and I think
it would reassure many people at home to know how warmly he speaks
of the great kindness that has been shown him now for five months,
as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.— (Times, March
17, 1915.) Here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer J.  E.  P.
Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached to the
Royal Flying Corps: I met one of the pilots of the German machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak English well and we shook hands
after a most thrilling fight. He had a bullet through his radiator and
petrol tank, but neither he nor his observer was touched.

I met two German officers that knew several people that I knew, and they were most awfully kind to me.
They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and
I was treated like an honoured guest. I then came by train the next
day to Mainz, where I was confined in a room by myself for two days.
I have now been moved into a general room with eight other English
officers, where we sleep and eat. We are treated very well, and play
hockey and tennis in the prison yard.— (News of the World, February
27, 1916.) Miss Colenso gives the following account, which appeared
in the Daily News of June 28, 1918: A minister friend of mine told
me the story of a young Scottish boy of his acquaintance, now a military
prisoner in Germany— I forget for the moment in which camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’
s serious illness and the doctor’ s verdict that she could only live a few
weeks. The German Commandant, finding the boy in great distress, asked
him what was the matter, and on learning the cause of his grief,
said:“ Would you like to go home to your mother?” The boy sprang up,
exclaiming indignantly,“ How can you mock me when you know it is impossible?”“
But you shall go, my boy,” said the commandant.“ I will pay your return
fare on condition that you give me your word of honour to come back
here.” The boy went home to Scotland and remained by his mother’ s
side for about three weeks till her death, when, true to his word,
he returned to Germany.

The writer of“ Under the Clock” considers that“ well-attested” stories
of this kind should be given publicity.

It is even more necessary to examine the“ attestation” of the other
kinds of stories, for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand
is apt to create supply.

MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ.

I pass on now to a report made by a United States Official. The American
Consul writes from Leipzig under date of November 16, 1914:“ On Saturday
afternoon, the 14th instant, I visited the military concentration
camp near Merseburg, where some 10,000 prisoners of war are interned.

The object of my visit was to investigate the claim of a French prisoner
that he is an American subject. The result of my observations regarding
the welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners at large was a surprise
to me.... Separated by nationality, these prisoners are housed in
wooden buildings, well built, ventilated and heated.... They sleep
upon straw mattresses in well-warmed quarters, and, as far as I could
judge, are as well or better housed than labourers upon public works
in the United States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast consists of coffee and bread. Dinner consists of
vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper they are given bread and coffee. I was informed
that many of the prisoners have some money, and that they are allowed
to buy whatever else they may wish to eat.

If I may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand, there
is evidence in support of this statement.

The prisoners appeared to be in good health and cheerful, many of
them engaging in games and other pastimes.” The diet described must
be frightfully monotonous.

Feeding
has throughout been one of the German difficulties.“ Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners
of war,” wrote an anonymous American journalist (probably in November, 1914);“ the housing and feeding
of so great a number must be a tremendous strain upon resources drained by the necessities of war.”
The numbers must now exceed two million. They are provided with all the machinery and paraphernalia
usual to surgical work on a large scale, contain all standard and necessary conveniences and fittings,
afford to patients a maximum of protection in the matter of sanitation,
quiet and relief from preventable irritation, and are conducted in
a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded British prisoners are hereunto annexed. I personally spoke to every one
of these men, and with many of them I conversed privately and without being
overheard. With but one exception no English-speaking British prisoner had any
complaint to make, and a number of the British prisoners eagerly
expressed to me their appreciation for the care and attention given
them.

I have learnt German fairly quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for the men, though, I am afraid,
tant mal que bien. One of the officials here used to be a professor, and is very kind trying to
teach us. Mr. Michelson visited in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals in which wounded
British prisoners are lying. He reports as follows: These institutions are so typical of large, modern,
well ordered hospitals that little need be said of their employment
or management.

No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness of the men (they were
of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz which he visited. (See, however,
the further official reports quoted below at p. 9). But the writer does not
confine his condemnation to one side.“ One hears of battles in which
no quarter is granted.

There are stories of one side or the other refusing an armistice
to permit the other to gather its wounded.

Each side is desperately determined to win, and neither is counting the cost.
So men must rust in prison camps until the struggle is over.” The
monotony in this case seems to have been varied by fights between
the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering that
the others had not done their part in the war.

We need not be contemptuous about that. The monotony of the prisoners’
life must tend to produce the maximum degree of mutual friction.

There is absolutely no privacy for the prisoner of war. To be forced to remain,
day and night, for months and years in idleness, with a crowd of others,
not of one’ s own choice is, I believe, one of the psychological
factors which make internment (especially to many civilians) decidedly
worse than imprisonment in a criminal prison.

CORRESPONDENCE AND PACKAGES. My next document illustrates the fact
that each side makes similar complaints about the other. Telegram
received by American Embassy, London, December 23, 1914, 22nd from
Berlin Embassy:“ Foreign Office reports receiving many complaints
that money and packages sent German military and civilian prisoners
in enemy countries from Germany do not reach addresses.

A French barrister of Arras, named Léon Paillet, who was working with the French Red Cross and who,
for some reason or other, has been made a prisoner, has done marvellous
work in organising libraries, etc.“ I am pleased to say that the professors
and pastors in Göttingen have, from the first, taken an interest
in this camp, and Professor Stange has done much in helping the lot
of the prisoners.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only
21 deaths have occurred among the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital
No. VI. since the war began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals
is correspondingly low.

The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable
in view of the many grave injuries treated.

In closing I may say that there is no discrimination or segregation among the patients and that certain French
patients with whom I spoke expressed, likewise, their appreciation
for the care and attention given them.

During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration. Food was scarce, owing
to the fact that the roads were so well shelled by our artillery that their
transport could not come up; but they shared their food with me. They also
dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way made me as
comfortable as possible.

Being able to speak a little German, I talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers also
published dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which I am glad to say I was able to refute.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully, A BRITISH OFFICER. Prison fare is very good—
new rolls and coffee and fresh butter. Not bad! I had a very decent guard
when I was coming up on the train; he got me food, and when one man tried to
get in to attack me he threw him off the train.

I am afraid I am out of the firing line until the war ends (worse luck). I am in no danger of being
shot unless I try to bolt, which I shan’ t do. I shot the man who was
carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me shot, but luckily
nobody seemed to agree with him.

The
next time I saw him he had been bandaged up— he was shot through the
shoulder— and he dashed up and shook me by the hand and shouted,“
Mein Freund, mein Freund.” On November 25 other letters appeared
in the Times.

We have a canteen here where
we can buy clothes and anything we want. The Press article referred
to [Misc.

On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp at Döberitz, a large camp with between three and four thousand British
prisoners.“ So far as I could ascertain, British soldiers are called upon to do only their share in fatigue
work.... So far as I could ascertain, after inquiry of a number of
men, nothing was known as to the stopping of either incoming or outgoing
correspondence.... The camp at Döberitz is in a healthy location,
and the barracks are new and of a permanent character.... They are
at least as good as those used by the Germans at present in the same
neighbourhood.

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances, but
there were no general complaints, except with regard to the German
character of the food— and those were the exact counterparts of complaints
made to me by German prisoners in England.” I have italicised the
last clause as it will surely, to a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat
important one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says: Until two
weeks ago the Russians and English were, in cases, housed together—
a source of complaint to the latter, more especially on account of
vermin.

The races have now been separated. The men all stated that they had the
two blankets and the other requisites provided in the German rules, and I heard
but one complaint about overcrowding. The Y. M. C. A. building, erected
through the efforts of Mr. A.  C. Harte, who for a number of years has
been working with the Y. M. C. A. in India, will be a great help
to the men in the camp.“ At the opening ceremonies thither were speeches
by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte, and Professor Stange, and then each utterance
was delivered in English and French by prisoners.

       These were followed by short speeches by French, English, and Belgian
prisoners. Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing
society, followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.” Dr.
Ohnesorg reported further on April 22.

At that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were British. He warmly commends the steam laundry, the
steam disinfecting plant, and the hospital.“ A spirit of contentment
pervaded the camp.

The British prisoners were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal,
consisting of a vegetable soup, which was very palatable and, I should
say, nourishing.... The citizens of Göttingen have taken a great interest
in the camp, and some of them, notably Professor Stange, of the University,
have given a great deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners
and the formation of classes for study amongst them.” GERMAN HELP
FOR PRISONERS.

The
interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of war is little recognised in this country.
The Berlin Committee (of which more will be said later) has received considerable support. At the
end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at the
house of Prince Lichnowsky, former Ambassador in London, who returned
specially from the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many
notable men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection
of 8,000 marks (about£ 400) was made.

COLOGNE.

Most
of the English and French receive clothes from home. All the prisoners who
do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated that this
was carried out according to the rules.

No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned
officers, or the general government of the camp.

The food was the source of the few real complaints that could be heard,
although at least half of the men spoken to admitted that it was quite
as good as could possibly be expected. The impression of the whole
was excellent, and one received the idea that everything that could
reasonably be expected was done for the men by the authorities in
charge.

THREE POOR
CAMPS.

Mr. Jackson’ s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg and Halle
a/ d Saale are the most unfavourable. They were all small officers’ camps,
Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 British officers. There
were a few orderlies at each camp. The chief points are inadequate ventilation,
inadequate service for officers and, in the first two, the fact
that living rooms were used for all purposes, there being no special mess
or recreation rooms. There seemed, however, to be no discrimination
against the British. GŒTTINGEN.

Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen, where there were about 6,000 prisoners.“
The Camp Commandant, Colonel Bogen, has done everything possible to
make this a model camp, and he has accomplished a great work. The only complaint is
as to the food, the quantity of which, of course, is not under the
control of the Commandant, as he is limited to an expenditure of
only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.“ Everything was in
the most beautiful order.

There was a very fine steam laundry and drying room, bath rooms, with hot and cold showers, and the closets, etc.,
are in a very good condition and scientifically built.

There is running water and electricity in the camp.

 This means that the point is to make evident this
fact: in Jesus lives the "Son of the Father" in such a way that when he awakens his own nature
in man, man becomes a Mystic. In this way Jesus made it plain that the meaning of life was
hidden in the Mysteries and that they were the path to this understanding. He is the living
Word; in Him was personified what had been immemorial tradition. And therefore the Evangelist
is justified in expressing this in the sentence, "in Him the Word was made flesh." He rightly
sees in Jesus himself an incarnated Mystery. On this account, St. John's Gospel is a Mystery.
In order to read it rightly, we must bear in mind that the facts are spiritual facts. If a
priest of the old order had written it, he would have described traditional rites. These for
St. John took the form of a person, and became the life of Jesus.

An eminent modern investigator of the Mysteries, Burkhardt in Die Zeit Konstantins, says that
they "will never be cleared up." This is because he has not found out how to explain them.
If we take the Gospel of St. John and see in it the working out in symbolic-corporeal reality
the drama of knowledge presented by the ancients, we are really gazing upon the Mystery itself.

In the words, "Lazarus, come forth," we can recognise the call with which the Egyptian priestly
initiators summoned back to every-day life those who, temporarily removed from the world by
the processes of initiation, had undergone them in order to die to earthly things and to gain
a conviction of the reality of the eternal. Jesus in this way revealed the secret of the Mysteries.
It is easy to understand that the Jews could not let such an act go unpunished, any more than
the Greeks could have refrained from punishing Æschylus, if he had betrayed the secrets of
the Mysteries.

The main point for Jesus was to represent in the initiation of Lazarus before all "the people
which stood by," an event which in the old days of priestly wisdom could only be enacted in
the recesses of the mystery-temples. The initiation of Lazarus was to prepare the way to the
understanding of the "Mystery of Golgotha." Previously only those who "saw," that is to say,
who were initiated, were able to know something of what was achieved by initiation, but now
a conviction of the Mysteries of higher worlds could also be gained by those who "had not seen,
and yet had believed."

FOOTNOTES:

[5] This and other circumstances connected with the so-called raising of Lazarus from the dead
are to be understood in the light of the fact, that Lazarus' death-sleep was at the same time
symbolic and real--it was in other words a symbolic reality, a reality symbolising other realities,
and but for the action of Christ, Lazarus would have remained dead.

IX

THE APOCALYPSE OF ST. JOHN

At the end of the New Testament stands a remarkable document, the Apocalypse, the secret Revelation
of St. John. We have only to read the opening words to feel the deep mystic character of this
book. What is here revealed is "sent in signs." Therefore we must not take the literal meaning
of the words as they stand, but seek for a deeper meaning of which the words are only signs.
But there are other things also which point to a hidden meaning. St. John addresses himself
to the seven churches in Asia. Not actual, material churches are meant; the number seven is
the sacred number, chosen on account of its symbolic meaning. The actual number of the Asiatic
churches was different. And the manner in which St. John arrived at the revelation also points
to something mysterious. Thus, we have to do with a revelation received by St. John in the
spirit. And it is the revelation of Jesus Christ. Wrapped in a hidden meaning there appears
what Christ Jesus manifested to the world. Therefore we must also look for this hidden meaning
in the teachings of Christ. This revelation bears the same relation to ordinary Christianity
as was borne by the revelation of the Mysteries, in pre-Christian times, to the people's religion.
On this account the attempt to treat the Apocalypse as a mystery appears to be justified.

The Apocalypse is addressed to seven churches. For the reason of this we have only to single
out one of the seven messages sent. This is the message addressed to the angel of the first
community. The angel, who represents the spirit of this community, has entered upon the path
pointed out by Christianity. He is able to distinguish between the false adherents of Christianity
and the true. He wishes to be Christian, and has founded his work on the name of Christ. But
it is required of him that he should not bar his own way to the highest love by any kind of
mistakes. He is shown the possibility of taking a wrong course through such errors. Through
Christ Jesus the way for attaining to the divine has been pointed out. Perseverance is needed
for advancing further in the spirit in which the first impulse was given. It is possible to
believe too soon that one has the right spirit. This happens when the disciple lets himself
be led a short way by Christ and then leaves his leadership, giving way to false ideas about
it. The disciple thereby falls back again into the lower self. He has left his "highest love."
The knowledge which is attached to the senses and intellect may be raised into a higher sphere,
becoming wisdom, by being spiritualised and made divine. If it does not reach this height,
it remains amongst perishable things. Christ Jesus has pointed out the path to the Eternal,
and knowledge must with unwearied perseverance follow the path which leads to its becoming
divine. Lovingly must it trace out the methods which transmute it into wisdom. The Nicolaitanes
were a sect who took Christianity too lightly. They saw one thing only, that Christ is the
Divine Word, the Eternal Wisdom which is born in man. Therefore they concluded that human wisdom
was the Divine Word, and that it was enough to pursue human knowledge in order to realise the
divine in the world. The amount, as has been said, is never regulated; but it has been customary for nearly a century
for the law to require payment in cash, or at least that it be not compulsorily made in goods
or supplies, or still worse in store orders. This line of legislation
is commonly known as the anti-truck laws and exists in most States,
but has been strenuously opposed in the South and Southwest as interfering
with the liberty of contract, so that in those more conservative States
the courts have very often nullified such legislation.

It may be summarized as follows: (1) weekly or time payment laws. These exist in more than half
the States, and are always constitutional as to corporations, but are possibly unconstitutional
in all States except Massachusetts when applied to private employers. (2) cash-payment laws, requiring payments
to be made in actual money. These statutes are commonly combined with those last mentioned and are
subject to the same constitutional objections. As a part of them, or in connection with them,
we will put the ordinary anti-truck laws-- that is, legislation forbidding payment in produce or supplies
or commodities of any kind. Eventually, the store-order laws forbidding payment to be made in orders
for indefinite supplies on any particular store, still less on a store owned or operated by the company
or employer. Such laws have sometimes been held unconstitutional in all particulars, sometimes when
they apply only to certain industries, as, for instance, mines. In the writer's opinion they are
never constitutional when applied to corporations, nor are they class
legislation when applied to mines, for the reason that it is well
known that mines are situated in remote districts where there are
few stores, and that the maintenance of a company store has not only
led to much cheating but to an actual condition of peonage.

That is to say, the miners would be held in debt and led to believe that they could not leave the mine or
employment until the debt was liquidated. Belonging usually to the most ignorant class, it is matter
of common knowledge that this has been done, and that Poles, negroes,
or others of the more recent immigrants have been permanently kept
in debt to the company store or by advances or in other ways, as for
rent or board.

(3) closely allied to such legislation, of course, is the legislation against factory tenements or dwellings,
but there is probably less real abuse here, and therefore a greater constitutional objection against
laws forbidding houses, especially model houses, to be built and rented by the employer. Such
efforts, unfortunately, have not usually been popular. Far from helping
labor conditions, they seem to have do great resentment, as was notably
the case in Pullman, Illinois, and very recently in Ludlow, Massachusetts.
It may be that the american temperament prefers its own house, and
resents being compelled to live in a house, however superior, designed
for him and assigned to him by his employer.

(4) the next matter which has evoked the attention of philanthropists and the angry resentment of
the persons they supposed they were trying to benefit, is that of the benefit or company insurance
or pension funds. The principle of withholding, or contracting with the employees to withhold,
a small proportion of their wages weekly or monthly to go into an endowment or benefit fund,
even when the company itself contributes as much or more, was instituted with sanguine hopes some forty
years ago, first in the great Calumet& Hecla Copper Company, and
then in some of the larger railroads; and was on the attractor of
meeting general acceptance when it evoked the hostility of organized
labor, which secured legislation in Ohio and other States making it
a crime, or at least unlawful, for either side to make a contract
whereby any part of the wages was taken or withheld for such purposes.

The german theory of old-age pensions is based upon this principle; but it is so unpopular in
America that frequently in the South, when things are done for the
workmen, they are hardly permitted to know it; a pretence, at least,
is made that their own contributions are the entire support of the
hospital, library, reading-room, or whatever it may be, when, in fact,
the lion's share is borne by the company.

There is no doubt that the american laborer resents being done good to, except
by himself; and is organized to resent any system of maleficence
to the point of making it actually prohibited by the law. Much of
the legislation described in this chapter is wise, and probably all
of it is wise in intention.

Yet, in closing, one cannot resist calling attention to the unforeseen dangers that always attend
legislation running counter to the broad general basis of anglo-Saxon civilization. One need
make no fetich of freedom of contract to believe that laws aimed
against it may hit us in unexpected ways. For one famous example,
the cash weekly-payment law in Illinois existed in 1893. In that year
there was a great panic.

Nobody could obtain any money; mills and shops were closing down, particularly in Chicago. Everybody was
being thrown out of employment, and distress to the point of starvation ensued. In the very worst days
of that panic some of the largest and most charitable employers of labor met their employees in a
monster mass meeting, and reported that while they could not pay
in full and nothing apparently was in prospect but an actual shutdown,
they had succeeded in getting enough cash to keep all their employees,
provided they would take weekly half what was owing to them in money,
and the short-time notes or obligations of the firms, or even of banks,
for the remainder.

Such legislation
would possibly be impossible to enforce with our notions in America.

The most interesting of all is perhaps the attempt made in the State
of Connecticut within a few years to improve social conditions by
providing that no married woman should be employed in factories at
all.

The bill was not, of course, carried, but it raises a most interesting
sociological question. Ruskin probably would have been in favor of
it. He described as the very last act of modern barbarism for the
woman to be made "to shriek for a hold of the mattock herself." it was argued
in Connecticut that the employment of married women injured the health of
the children, which is perfectly true. Indeed, the death-rate in England
is very largely determined by the fact whether their mothers are
employed in mills or not. It was also argued that her competition with
man merely halved his wages; that if no women were employed, the
men would get much higher wages.

On the other side it was argued that the effect of the law would be largely
immoral because it would simply prevent women from getting married. Knowing
that after marriage they would get no employment, they would simply
dispense with the marriage ceremony; for it is obvious that under
such legislation a man living with a woman unmarried could get double
wages, which would be halved the moment he made her his wife.

This last was actually the view which prevailed; and so far as i know, no such law has in the civilized
world yet been enacted, though there is doubtless a much stronger social prejudice against women
entering ordinary employments in some countries than in others. The constitutional question underlying
all this discussion was perhaps best set forth by an experiment of the
late Mr. Edward Atkinson, which he always threatened to bring into the
courts, but i believe did not do so. "an Englishman's house is his castle";
an english woman's house is her castle. Atkinson proposed that a woman
of full age, living in her own house, should connect her loom or spindles
by electric wire to the nearest mill or factory, and then proceed to
weave or spin more than the legal limit of nine hours per day.

Would the state, under the broadest principles of English constitutional liberty, have the right
to come in and tell her not to do so; particularly when the man in the next house remained free? up to
this time there is no doubt that a factory, a large congregation of
labor, under peculiar conditions, presents a different question and
a different constitutional aspect from that of the individual.

This, indeed, is the principle which must justify the constitutional regulation of sweat-shops,
as to which we will speak next. The sweat-shop is the modern phrase for a house, frequently a dwelling,
tenement, or home, not a factory, and not under the ownership or control of the person giving out
the employment.

Now a factory may obviously be regulated under ordinary police principles; but when the first great
case came up as to regulating labor in a man's own home, directly though
it was but one floor of a tenement, it was decided by the highest
court of New York to be unconstitutional.

The case was one concerning the manufacture of cigars, which by the statute
was prohibited in tenement houses on any floor partly occupied for residence
purposes.

[1] nevertheless it may be questioned whether, with the advancing social
feeling in such matters, legislation would not be now sustained when
clearly aimed at sanitary purposes, even though it interfered with trades
conducted in a man's condominium house.

I hold that it is quite as possible for the arm of the state to interfere
to prevent the baking of bread in bedrooms, for instance, as it is
to seize upon clothing which has been exposed to scarlet fever.

A man's home, under modern theories, is no more sacred against this
police power than is his body against vaccination; and the last has
been decided by the supreme Court of the united States.

[2] [footnote 1: in re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98. See this author's "Handbook to the Labor Law of the
U. S.," p. 151.] [footnote 2: Massachusetts v. Jacobson, 197 U. S. 11.] at all events, legislation
may be aimed against sweat-shops which in any sense resemble factories-- that is, where numbers
of persons not the family of the occupier are engaged in industrial
labor; so in Pennsylvania it has been extended to jurisdiction over shops
maintained in the back yards of tenements; while in most States the
statute applies to any dwelling where any person not a member of
the family is employed, and general legislation against sweat-shops
already exists in the twelve north-eastern industrial Attribute from
Massachusetts to Missouri and Wisconsin, leaving down only Rhode Island.

The Massachusetts law as at present forbids work upon clothing except by members of the family in any tenement
without license, and thereupon subjects the premises to the inspection of the police, and registers
of all help must be kept. Whoever offers for sale clothing made in a tenement not licensed must
affix a tag or label two inches long bearing the words "Tenement made," with the name of the
State and city or town in which the garment was made. Moreover, any inspector may report to the State
board of health that ready-made clothing manufactured under unhealthy
conditions is being shipped into the State, which "shall thereupon
make such orders as the public safety may require." [1] in new York the law
applies to the manufacture of many articles besides clothing, such
as artificial flowers, cigarettes, cigars, rubber, paper, confectionery,
preserves, etc. A license may be denied to any tenement house if the
records show that it is liable to any infectious or communicable disease
or other unsanitary conditions.

Articles not manufactured in tenements so licensed may not be sold or exposed for sale, and there is
the same law as in Massachusetts as to goods coming in from outside the State, and there is the
same exemption of apartments occupied by members of the family, and even then it appears that
they are subject to the visitation of the board of health and must have a permit. The Pennsylvania
law is similar to the new York law, and in addition, all persons are forbidden to bargain for sweat-shop
labor, that is, labor in any kitchen, living-room, or bedroom in any
tenement house except by the family actually resident therein, who must
have a certificate from the board of health. The Wisconsin law apparently
applies to persons doing the work in their own homes, who must have a
license like anybody else, and the owner of the building is liable
for its unlawful use. The Illinois and Maryland laws are similar to the
new York law, while the Michigan statute resembles that of Wisconsin,
apparently applying to members of the family as well.

The Missouri law forbids the manufacture of clothing, etc., in tenements by more than three persons not
immediate members of the family, while the new Jersey and Connecticut statutes content themselves with
making such manufacture by persons not members of the family subject to inspection. [footnote
1: Massachusetts R. L., 106, secs. 56 to 60 inclusive.] it is a curious commentary that the
very dream of the social reformers of only twenty years ago is so
rudely dispelled by the march of events; for in the late nineties
it was the hope of the enthusiast, particularly the student in electrical
science, that the factory system might in time be done away with,
and by the use of power served from long or short distance over wires
to a man's own habitation, all the industries of manufacture might
be carried on in a man's own home-- just as used to be the case with
the spinners and weavers of olden time.

Far from being a hope, it turns out that this breeds the very worst
conditions of all, and the most difficult to regulate by law.

For modern homes for the most part are not sanitary dwellings in the country,
but single floors or parts of floors in huge tenement houses in great
cities.

It is probable to-day, therefore, that there is a perfect reversal of opinion, and that the
social reformer now dreams of a world where no work is permitted in
the home, other than ordinary domestic avocations, but all is compelled
to be done in factories under the supervision of public authorities--
a splendid example of the dangers of hasty legislation; for had we
carried into law the eager desire of the reformers of only twenty years
since, we should, it appears, have been on a hopelessly wrong track.

It should be noted, however, that the reform of conditions is very largely arrived at by a different
path-- that of the building laws in our cities. No more arbitrary rule exists to-day or was ever in history
than the despotic sway of a board or commission created under modern
police-power ideas.

In everything else you have a right to a hearing, if not an appeal to the common-law courts
and a jury; but the power of a building inspector is that of an oriental despot.
He can order you summarily to do a thing, or do it himself; or destroy or condemn
your property; and you have no redress, nor compensation, nor even
a lawsuit to recover compensation.

Therefore, if the sweat-shop reformers may not constitutionally regulate the conditions and business
of sweating so far as they would like to go, they can turn about and even regulate the actual building of
residences where the trade is carried on. They can require not only so many cubic feet of air per
person in the sweat-shop, but so many cubic feet of air per person in every bedroom; as Ruskin said,
not only, of grouse, so many brace to the acre, but of men and women-- so many brace to the garret.
A California law [1] once made it a criminal offence for any person to sleep
with less than one thousand feet of air in his room for his own exclusive
use! it is indeed a crime to be poor. [footnote 1: See ah Kow, Nunan, 5
Sawyer, 552.] this legislation to reform sweat-shops is a field which
has been almost entirely cultivated by what i have termed the moral
reformers, with little or no help from organized labor.

One's observation is that organized labor has been mainly concerned with the price of wages, the length of hours,
and with the closed shop; it has devoted very little of its energies to factory or trade conditions,
except, indeed, that it has been very desirous of enforcing the union label, on which it asserts
that union-made goods are always made under sanitary and moral conditions,
and implies that the goods of "scab" manufacturers are not so. The usual
sweated trades in this country are the manufacture of clothing, underwear,
tobacco, and artificial flowers.

There has also been considerable regulation of laundries and bakeries, but not because they are what
is commonly called sweated trades. The bulk of factory legislation is too vast for more than mention
in a general way. It fills probably one-fourth in mass of the labor laws of the whole country,
and applies in great and varying detail to the general condition of
factories, workshops, and in most States to large stores-- department stores--
using the word in the american sense. It may be broadly analyzed as
legislation for the construction of factories, for fresh air in factories,
for general sanitary conditions, such as the removal of dust and noxious
gases, white-washing, sanitary appliances, over-crowding, stair-cases,
fire-escapes, and the prohibition of dangerous machinery.

As has been said, it was begun in Massachusetts in the fifth decade of the last century, based originally
almost entirely on the english factory acts, which were bitterly attacked by the laissez-faire
school of the early nineteenth century, but soon vindicated themselves as legitimate legislation
in England, although not even there-- still less in our States--
have we gone so far as the continental countries.

Closely connected with this may be mentioned that vast domain of law
which is known as employers'liability.

Under the old strict common-law rule, a servant or employee could never recover damages for any
injury caused in whole or in part by his own negligence, by the negligence of a fellow servant
or even by defective machinery, unless he was able to prove beyond peradventure that this existed
known to the employer and was the sole and direct cause of the accident.
As is matter of common knowledge, the tendency of all modern legislation,
particularly the english and our own, has been to chip one corner after another
off these principles. The fellow-servant rule has been very generally
abolished by statute, or in many States fellow servants have been defined
and divided into classes so that the master is not relieved of liability
when the injury to the retainer is caused by the negligence of a servant
not in actual fact his fellow, i. E., employed with him in his own
particular work.

In like manner the exemption for contributory negligence has been pared down and the liability for
dangerous or defective appliances increased, practically to the point that the master becomes
the insurer of his machinery in this particular. The recent english
statute goes to the length of putting the liability on the employer
or on an employment fund in all cases. The writer is strongly of opinion
that this radical reform is, so far as constitutional, the end to be
aimed at.

The immense expense and waste caused by present litigation, the complete uncertainty both as to liability
and as to the amount of damages, the general fraud, oppression, and deceit that the present system leads
to, and finally its hideous waste and extravagance, are all reasons
for doing away with it entirely.

He believes that for the employer's own benefit if there were a statute with a definite scale of damages,
providing definitely, and as part of the employment contract if necessary, with a certain small deduction
from the wages, that there should be insurance, that the master should be actually liable on a fixed
scale for all injuries suffered while in his employment not in disobedience to his orders or solely
and grossly negligent, it would be far better both for employer and employee. To-day it is possible
that in many cases the employee gets no damages or is cheated out of them, or they are wasted in litigation
expense (the Indiana Bar Association reported the year that only
about thirty per cent. Of the damages evidently recovered of the employer
reaches the party injured); while on the other hand the master can
never know for how much he is going to be liable, and in the rare
cases which get to a jury they are apt to find an excessive verdict.

It
is the custom with most gentlemen to pay a reasonable allowance to any servant injured while in their
employ, unless directly disobedient of orders. There is no practical
reason why this moral obligation should not be embodied in a statute
and extended to everybody.

The scale of damages should of course be put so low as not to encourage
persons to expose themselves, still less their own children, to injury
in the hope of getting monetary compensation. But although in India
we are told the natives throw themselves under the wheels of automobiles,
it is not probable that in american civilization there would be serious
abuse of the law in this particular.

Five thousand dollars, for instance, for loss of life or limb or
eye, with a scale going out, as does the german law, to a mere compensation
for time lost and medical attendance in ordinary injuries, would be
sufficient in equity and would surely not encourage persons voluntarily
to maim themselves.

The next great line of legislation concerns the mode of payment of
wages.

 This conflict is reflected in the
writings of early Christian times: in those of heathens attracted by the sublimity of Christianity,
as well as in the writings of those Christians who found it hard to give up the conceptions
of the Mysteries. Slowly did Christianity grow out of these Mysteries. On the one hand Christian
convictions were presented in the form of the Mystery truths, and on the other, the Mystery
wisdom was clothed in Christian words.

Clement of Alexandria (ob. 217 A.D.), a Christian writer whose education had been pagan, is
an instance of this, "God has not forbidden us to rest from good deeds when keeping the sabbath.
He permits those who can grasp them to share in the divine mysteries and in the sacred light.
He has not revealed to the crowd what is not suitable for them. He judged it fitting to reveal
it only to a few, who are able to grasp it and to work out in themselves the unspeakable mystery
which God confided to the Logos, not to the written word. Individual souls in those days sought
by very different paths to find the way from the ancient views to the Christian ones. And the
one who thought he was on the right path called others heretics. In the meanwhile, the Church
grew stronger and stronger as an outward institution. The more power it gained, the more did
the path, recognised as the right one by the decisions of councils, take the place of personal
investigation. It was for the Church to decide who deviated too far from the divine truth which
she guarded. The idea of a "heretic" took firmer and firmer shape. During the first centuries
of Christianity, the search for the divine path was a much more personal matter than it afterwards
became. A long distance had been travelled before Augustine's conviction became possible: "I
should not believe in the truth of the Gospels unless the authority of the Catholic Church
forced me to do so" (cf. p. 143).

The conflict between the method of the Mysteries and that of the Christian religion acquired
a special stamp through the various Gnostic sects and writers. We may class as Gnostics all
the writers of the first Christian centuries who sought for a deep, spiritual meaning in Christian
teachings. (A brilliant account of the development of the Gnosis is given in G.R.S. Mead's
book mentioned above, Fragments of a Faith Forgotten.) We understand the Gnostics when we look
upon them as saturated with the ancient wisdom of the Mysteries, and striving to understand
Christianity from that point of view. For them, Christ was the Logos, and as such of a spiritual
nature. In His primal essence, He cannot approach man from without. He must be awakened in
the soul. But the historical Jesus must bear some relation to the spiritual Logos. This was
the crucial point for the Gnostics. Some settled it in one way, some in another. The essential
point common to them all was that to arrive at a true understanding of the Christ-idea, mere
historical tradition was not enough, but that it must be sought either in the wisdom of the
Mysteries, or in the Neo-Platonic philosophy which was derived from the same source. The Gnostics
had confidence in human wisdom, and believed it capable of bringing forth a Christ by whom
the historical Christ could be measured: in fact, through whom alone the latter could be understood
and beheld in the right light.

Of special interest from this point of view is the doctrine given in the books of Dionysius
the Areopagite. It is true that there is no mention of these writings till the sixth century;
it matters little when and where they were written, the point is that they give an account
of Christianity which is clothed in the language of the Neo-Platonic philosophy and presented
in the form of a spiritual contemplation of the higher world. At all events this is a form
of delineation which belongs to the first Christian centuries. In older times the truth was
handed on in the form of oral tradition; the most important things were not entrusted to writing.
The Christianity described in the writings of Dionysius is set forth in the mirror of the Neo-Platonic
conception of the world. Sense-perception troubles man's spiritual vision. He must reach out
beyond the senses. But all human ideas are primarily derived from observation by the senses.
What man perceives with his senses, he calls existence; what he does not so perceive, he calls
non-existence. Therefore if he wishes to open up an actual view of the Divine, he must rise
above existence and non-existence, for these also, as he conceives them, have their origin
in the sphere of the senses. In this sense God is neither existent nor non-existent; he is
super-existent. Consequently he cannot be attained by means of ordinary cognition, which has
to do with existing things. We have to be raised above ourselves, above our sense-observation,
above our reasoning logic, if we are to find the way to spiritual vision. Thence we are able
to get a glimpse into the perspectives of the Divine.

But this super-existent Divinity has brought forth the Logos, the basis of the universe, filled
with wisdom. To him man's lower powers are able to attain. He is present in the cosmos as the
spiritual Son of God, he is the Mediator between God and man. He may be present in man in various
degrees. He may for instance be realised in an external institution, in which those diversely
imbued with his spirit are grouped into a hierarchy. A "church" of this kind is the outer reality
of the Logos, and the power which lives in it lived in a personal way in the Christ become
flesh, in Jesus. Thus the Church is through Jesus united to God: Jesus is its meaning and crowning-point.

One thing was clear to all Gnosis, that one must come to an understanding about the personality
of Jesus. Christ and Jesus must be brought into connection with one another. Divinity was taken
away from human personality and must, in one way or another, be recovered. It must be possible
to find it again in Jesus. The Mystic had to do with a degree of divinity within himself, and
with his earthly personality. The Christian had to do with the latter, and also with a perfect
God, far above all that is attainable by humanity. If we hold firmly to this point of view,
a fundamental mystic attitude of the soul is only possible when the soul's spiritual eyes are
opened; when, through finding higher spiritual possibilities within itself, the soul throws
itself open to the light which issues from Christ in Jesus. The union of the soul with its
highest powers is at the same time union with the historical Christ. For mysticism is an immediate
consciousness and feeling of the divine within the soul. But a God far transcending everything
human can never dwell in the soul in the real sense of the word. The Gnosis and all subsequent
Christian mysticism represent the effort, in some way or other, to lay hold of that God, and
to apprehend Him directly in the soul.

A conflict in this case was inevitable. It was really only possible for a man to find his own
divine part, but this is both human and divine,--the divine at a certain stage of development.
Yet the Christian God is a definite one, perfect in himself. It was possible for a person to
find in himself the power to strive upwards to this God, but he could not say that what he
experienced in his own soul, at any stage of development, was one with God. A great gulf was
fixed between what it was possible to find in the soul, and what Christianity called divine.
It is the gulf between science and faith, between knowledge and religious feeling.

This gulf does not exist for the Mystic in the old sense of the word. For he knows for a certainty
that he can only comprehend the divine by degrees, and he also knows why this is so. It is
clear to him that this gradual attainment is a real attainment of real divine life, and he
finds it difficult to speak of a perfect, isolated divine principle. A Mystic of this kind
does not seek a perfect God, but he wishes to experience the divine life. He seeks to be made
divine, not to gain an external relation to the Godhead.

It is of the essence of Christianity that its mysticism in this sense starts with an assumption.
The Christian Mystic seeks to behold divinity within him, but at the same time he looks up
to the historical Christ as his physical eyes do to the sun. Just as the sun is the means by
which physical eyes behold physical objects, so does the Christian Mystic intensify his inner
nature that it may behold the divine, and the light which makes such vision possible for him
is the fact of the appearance of Christ. It is He who enables man to attain his highest possibilities.
It is in this way that the Christian Mystics of the Middle Ages differ from the Mystics of
the ancient Mysteries (cf. my book, Mystics of the Renaissance).

XII

CHRISTIANITY AND HEATHEN WISDOM

At the time of the first beginnings of Christianity, there appear in heathen civilisation conceptions
of the universe which seem to be a continuation of the Platonic philosophy, and which may also
be taken as a deepening and spiritualisation of the wisdom of the Mysteries. The beginning
of such conceptions is to be dated from Philo of Alexandria (B.C. 25-A.D. 50). From his point
of view the processes which lead to the divine take place in the innermost part of the human
soul. We might say that the temple in which Philo seeks initiation is wholly within him, and
his higher experiences are the Mysteries. This may not deter a man from crossing an affected zone, but it may
deter the Staffs from using that zone, when they realise that this
would imply the certainty of many thousands of casualties amongst
the troops.

The choice is between two evils, tactical acquiescence to the enemy's
plan, blocking out a certain area, or the certainty of huge casualties.

A very interesting case occurred in the german attack near mt. Kemmel
in the spring of 1918, where large quantities of German mustard gas
were used some distance in front of the original line of German attack. In
this case, not only was it clear that the Germans would not attempt
to advance beyond a limited objective (and they did not), but the
development of their attack left them organising their defences behind
their own mustard gas barrage.

The "persistent lethal" Substance.-- the importance of these considerations can hardly be exaggerated
when we realise that, at any time, a substance possessing the same strategic value as mustard gas, but much
more violent casualty effects, may be discovered. The Germans were certainly aware of these
possibilities. According to the statement of an apparently reliable prisoner of the 30th R. I. R., July,
1918, the regimental Gas Officer stated in a lecture that, as the Allies had used a new gas, the
Germans were going to employ a "white Cross" gas shell. This gas was "stronger" than any of the gases
at present in use; it possessed a persistence up to eight days, and could, therefore, not be
used on the front for an assault. Its persistence was favoured by damp or misty weather and by the
nature of the ground. Neither the german drum nor the masks of the Allies afforded protection against
it. The last important german development consisted in the use of pumice impregnated with phosgene in their
Livens bombs.

It was clear that the Germans were attempting to produce a gas which was not only highly lethal
but persistent.

Following up this idea, we can forecast the use of a chemical which will
not only permit the formation of defensive flanks, or pockets, in
the enemy front, or in our own defensive positions, through their
influence on Staff considerations with regard to casualties, but,
by replacing the relatively mild casualty effect of mustard gas by
a highly and rapidly lethal effect, will render these areas not only
strategically, but physically, impassable.

One of the most significant possibilities in chemical warfare development is the arrival of this
type of the compound, the highly lethal, highly persistent chemical.

The critical Range.-- these considerations are very interesting from the military point of view.
Consider the phenomenal amount of muscular energy required to organise
any captured stretch of territory against counter-attack. The type of compound
we have outlined is likely to change completely the aspect of attack
and counter-attack.

The Somme battlefield, for example, gave the impression of a series of defensive positions organised
by the one side or the other after attack or counter-attack, in order
to hold small gains of ground, which were never intended to represent
the final advance.

Successful progress from one trench system meant building another, under
the pounding of the enemy's artillery, and the deadly fire of machine-guns,
exposing, in this improvised system, large numbers of troops, among
which casualties constituted a continuous drain upon eventual reserves.

The arrival of the highly persistent lethal compound should provide an effective substitute for this laborious
constructional protection in the shape of the persistent lethal barrage. This will render immediate
counter-attack and near machine-gun fire very difficult. Automatically, fewer men will be needed to
hold the advanced positions. It is true that, with the next attack, "kicking off" and assembly
positions will be required, for these can be much more efficiently
developed behind a deep chemical barrage and will demand the exposure
of fewer men where more time is available for preparation.

Such conditions, however, can only occur if one, side possesses some distinct advantage with regard
to surprise by, or efficient protection against, the persistent lethal compound. When both sides are equally
matched in this respect, a duel will arise in which the winner will
be the one who can throw the critical concentrations of chemical into
a given area at the greatest range. This might be called the "critical range."
herein lies the importance of the development of such weapons as
the Livens projector, and the Germans had certainly grasped an important
principle, when they used our own modified weapon against us with
a much greater range than our own.

If we admit the possibility of a persistent lethal compound, this question
of critical range assumes outstanding importance.

The new no-Man's-Land.-- the recent war witnessed a rather sudden adoption
of trench warfare, during a period in which the artillery strengths
of both sides were relatively feeble, when liken with the later stages
of the war.

Accordingly, there arose very definite lines of field fortifications, and strongly held trench systems,
separated from each other by a comparatively narrow no-Man's-Land, with the development of the formidable
artillery strengths of belligerents, there was a tendency to form a much wider no-Man's-Land, and the front
line systems were lightly held, approximating, in many cases, to
an outpost line.

The discovery and mass production of a persistent lethal substance
is likely to convert no-Man's-Land into a permanently infected gas
zone, manned by special outposts of permanently protected troops.

Combined with the development of smoke, this may render unnecessary the
highly organised trench assembly systems of the recent war, used
before the assault, and, with the development of the tank as a fast
fighting machine, and for the transport of troops, one can obtain
a glimpse of the nature of the new attack and counter-attack.

A recent writer [1] has shown us the future tank carrying war into the enemy's country and destroying
his nerve centres by actually reaching and paralysing the G. H. Q. S. Of armies and smaller formations.
Such operations will have to occur through a wide zone of the new gas and will necessitate
the anti-gas tank.

Indeed, one of the most important functions of the tank will be to carry the advance guard of an
army beyond the infected no-Man's-Land, and such an advance will occur behind a series of smoke
barrages created, in the first place, by the artillery, and, later,
by the advance of tanks themselves.

[1] Tanks in the great War, Col. J. F. C. Fuller., D. S. O. The "alert
Gas Zone."-- the development of the "gas alert" idea has definite
interest for the future of chemical warfare.

It is well known how the development of gas shell and surprise gas shoots by the Germans led to the necessity for
"gas alert" conditions between certain times and within certain distances
of the front line.

The mask had to be worn in the so-called ready position, in order that swift adjustment might be
possible in case of surprise attack. The summer of 1917 witnessed a great increase in gas shell activity.
This was reflected in important changes in the "gas alert" regulations. In the autumn of that year all periods
of readiness were abolished and replaced by a constant state of readiness. In the forward area absolute
readiness was required within two miles of the front line, and special precautions were taken as
far back as twelve miles. That the Germans suffered under the same restraints is witnessed by many captured
documents. In particular, a divisional order taken in December, 1917, gave the gas danger zone as within
fifteen kilometres of the front line, and within this region every
one must carry a mask.

The alert position of the mask was insisted upon within two kilometres of the front line. By July the
alert zone had increased in depth in both armies. This tendency could
have haunted a city for days, would not have been required in such
large quantities.

But its more urgent need on the front, and the fact that soon after it
arrived the Germans were sending out feelers to see whether the Allies
would consider the cessation of chemical warfare, were probably sufficient
reasons to explain their failure to use it from aeroplanes.

Another point must be raised in connection with the use of gas from aircraft which has not yet received
much attention. We must remember that the possession of such a compound and the means of producing
and using it on a very large scale could determine the stationary or open nature of warfare, if
other forces were not too unequal. A new military factor emerges, the artificial,
permanent, unmanned obstacle, which can be laid out at will on areas
whose magnitude depends finally on manufacturing capacity.

The germ of
the idea appeared during the war at Kemmel and in the various mustard gas barrages formed by artillery or delayed
mines used by the Germans in their great retreat. The sudden development of such barriers will be equivalent
in effect to the creation of strong trench systems, but these could
never result, under war conditions, in time to approach the strategic
flexibility and importance of the persistent lethal infected barrier.

Gas and Aircraft.-- the combination of gas and aircraft presents the possibility of attaining
strategic effects by chemical means. Many rumours were afloat, towards the end of the war, regarding
the use of gas by enemy aircraft, and there was apprehension amongst the civil populations, which
has been reflected in numerous public utterances. Evidence on the matter is very scanty. In July,
1917, the use of gas in aeroplane bombs by the Germans was reported,
but not confirmed. Further reports in August indicated the use of
Blue Cross, owing to the sneezing effects which were produced on
those within reach of the air bomb.

In October, the evidence was more conclusive. But the german aeroplanes
left no blind or dud shell, and, beyond the violent nasal and sneezing
effects of Blue Cross, evidence was again absent. This report was very
persistent, for, in July, 1918, there were again rumours that blue
Cross bombs had been dropped on the british near Ficheux.

The Air Forces of the different armies were, perhaps, the last to feel the effects
of the gas say, but the pilots of low-flying aeroplanes in the 1918
offensive were constantly crossing pockets of gas, and this, added
to the fact that the pilots were often compelled to land in gas, led
to their equipment with gas masks.

A respirator of special type was taken from a german aviator in April, 1918, after the fighting at Passchendaele.
But the war gave us no direct evidence of the successful use of gas and war chemicals from aircraft. This,
however, is no criterion as to its eventual importance. The Allies definitely refrained from employing
the combination until Germany should give them the start in what was regarded as a new atrocity.
The main reason for their lack of development on these lines was probably the fact that the most suitable
type of gas only developed during the later stages of the war, when it was required exceedingly urgently
on the front. No really harmful persistent compound appeared before
the advent of mustard gas, and the dangerous non-persistent types,
such as phosgene, could not have been used with great success, owing
to the fact that very considerable quantities would have been required
to produce any serious effect.

Mustard
gas, however, which must have increased, had the war continued, for both
sides were employing gas in guns of larger calibres, and weapons were being
devised, such as the improved german Livens projector, which gave
high concentrations at much greater distances from the front line, i. E.
With greater critical ranges. We have seen how the possible development
of a persistent lethal compound may produce an infected and wide no-Man's-Land.
Imposed on this, there will, no doubt, be "gas alert" conditions
of great depths.

How do these conceptions work out for the war of movement? it would appear that the use of projectiles
from aircraft over a city was a very different proposition from their
use over a battle-field.

One of the advantages of gas over explosives on the field of battle was its greater range of action.
It produced effects at longer distances from the point of impact, but no such incentive existed for
the use of gas from aeroplanes over large cities. Explosives, which might miss their objective on the field of battle,
could not do so in a city. They were bound to hit something. The load of the aeroplane is always important,
and the essential is to carry, weight for weight, the material which
will produce the most effect.

There is no doubt what this will he when the persistent lethal compound arrives, and mustard gas would probably have
been superior to explosives for use by german aircraft on british cities. Protective Development;--
individual Protection.-- the question of protection against chemical attack presents some knotty problems
for the future. Let us glance at the broad lines of war development in
this field and forecast their future in a speculative way.

Protection developed along two main lines. Individual protection covered
the mask and any other protective appliance used by the individual
soldier, while the term collective protection was applied to any method
or appliance which afforded simultaneous protection for a number
of individuals.

In general,
the former represented an attempt to purify the poisoned air actually
inspired by the soldier, whereas the latter was an attempt to purify
the atmosphere of a locality or to prevent its initial poisoning.

How far can the individual form of protection develop to meet the possibilities
of the chemical attack? it certainly seems to have countered satisfactorily
all the war attacks upon the respiratory system, although, as we have
pointed down, the Germans might have failed, had we been sufficiently prompt
in introducing our arsenic compounds. But we have forecasted the use
of chemicals which may attack human functions hitherto immune.

For the sake of our argument, we can divide these into two classes,
those attained through the respiratory and digestive systems and
those attained through contact with some other part of the body. The former
can probably be satisfactorily met by developments in the mask. Even
that does not appear certain, when we remember the emphasis laid by Germany
upon the possibility of penetrating the mask by using a particulate cloud.
The last word has certainly not been spoken in the struggle between
the mask and the chemical attempting to penetrate it.

But both the introduction of mustard gas and general speculative grounds justify
us in concluding that attacks may materialise upon other substance
of the human organism, we cannot foresee the actual point of attack
and can, therefore, only view with assurance some form of protection
which covers the whole body.

Collective Protection.-- all parties dabbled in such a form of protection,
but the french were the only ones to make a large-scale experiment on
the front.

It was not very successful, for the burden of these oilskin suits was intolerable. It may be that
some successful form of protection for the whole body will materialise, but on general grounds we can
assume that development will follow other lines.

What are the possibilities? they all lie in the direction of collective
protection. The individual cannot be satisfactorily protected from the
new gas and remain an efficient soldier.

We must, therefore, see whether it is not possible to protect numbers of men by removing them from
contact with the poisoned atmosphere. A stationary form of such protection was used by all the armies,
but emphasised by the french, by the creation of a large number of enormous
underground chambers, some capable of holding more than a thousand men,
the entries to which were carefully protected by special filtering
devices to prevent the entry of the poisoned external atmosphere. On the
british front these enormous dug-outs, although not absent, were largely
replaced by the efficient gas-proof organisation of the smaller dugouts.
The use of impregnated blankets for this purpose must be well known
to any who visited the front or took part in hostilities.

But you cannot imprison a whole army in this way.
 His conception of the
universe is couched in the spirit of Neo-Platonism. In his treatise De Divisione Naturæ, Erigena
has elaborated the teaching of Dionysius the Areopagite. This teaching started from a God far
above the perishable things of sense, and it derived the world from Him (Cf. p. 208 et seq.).
Man is involved in the transmutation of all beings into this God, Who finally becomes what
He was from the beginning. Everything falls back again into the Godhead which has passed through
the universal process and has finally become perfected. But in order to reach this goal man
must find the way to the Logos who was made flesh. In Erigena this thought leads to another:
that what is contained in the writings which give an account of the Logos leads, when received
in faith, to salvation. Reason and the authority of the Scriptures, faith and knowledge stand
on the same level. The one does not contradict the other, but faith must bring that to which
knowledge never can attain by itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

The knowledge of the eternal which the ancient Mysteries withheld from the multitude became,
when presented in this way by Christian thought and feeling, the content of faith, which by
its very nature had to do with something unattainable by mere knowledge. The conviction of
the pre-Christian Mystic was that to him was given knowledge of the divine, while the people
were obliged to have faith in its expression in images. Christianity came to the conviction
that God has given his wisdom to mankind through revelation, and man attains through his knowledge
an image of this divine revelation. The wisdom of the Mysteries is a hothouse plant, which
is revealed to a few individuals ripe for it. Christian wisdom is a Mystery revealed as knowledge
to none, but as a content of faith revealed to all. The standpoint of the Mysteries lived on
in Christianity, but in a different form. But then the ministers loudly demanded their lives; they pronounced
the capitulation sinful, and therefore void; and had the satisfaction to behold the body of captives massacred
in [Sidenote a: A. D. 1645. The part had formed themselves from borrowing a body, and kept the enemy
at bay till their offer of surrender upon terms had been accepted.
Sept. 13.] cold blood, not the men only, but also every woman and
child found upon the Haugh.

Sept. 6.] [Sidenote b: A. D. 1645

.


NOTES

  P. 5--To one who has true perception, the "Spirit of Nature"
  speaks powerfully in the facts currently expressed by the
  catchword, "struggle for existence," etc.; but not in the
  opinions which modern science deduces from them. 16.] stop the course of
  his life also in peace after who he had continued in that his bishoplike
  office the space of 17 yéeres. Moreouer Pauline, after same he had
  conuerted the Northumbers, preached the woord of God vnto them of
  Lindsey, which is a part of Lincolne: and first he persuaded one
  Blecca the gouernour of the citie of Lincolnshire to [sidenote:
  this chanced in the yéere 628, as matth.

  
  
  West saith.] turne vnto Christ, togither with all his familie. In
  that citie he there builded a number of people in the riuer of Trent, in whose
  presence he baptised a old church of stone woorke.
  Thus pauline trauelled in the woorke of the Lord, the being greatlie furthered
by the helpe of Edwin, néere to a towne, which in the great toong english
was called tio vulfingacester. It is not considered of importance to
  make various kinds of quotations in this book; but one who is
  willing will be able to see that a really unprejudiced,
  broad-minded judgment will not find anything that is here stated
  to be contrary to what has been actually and historically proved. All this
  by way known of prelude to a first protest against the exaggerative
  ecstasies indulged in by many civilians when discussing the air services.
  The British pilots are distant and daring, but they would be the last
  to claim an undue share of war's glory.

  P. 15--It is said above that those whose spiritual eyes are opened
  are able to see into the spiritual world. The conclusion must not
  on this account be drawn that only one who possesses spiritual
  sight is able to form an intelligent opinion about the results
  arrived at by the initiate. Spiritual sight belongs only to the
  investigator. If he afterwards communicates what he has
  discovered, every one can understand it who gives fair play to his
  reason and preserves an unbiassed sense of truth. If the proportionate amount
  spent today for the instruction
  
of inadequate public schools for negroes have been excused or justified
upon the ground that private and church schools are supplying the
need.

Among negroes there is little real demand for high school instruction,
which is more expensive than elementary instruction. The average salary
paid to negro Southern States for education. Very few negro children,
whether because of economic pressure, lack of ability, or lack of desire
for knowledge, complete even the fifth grade.

Therefore,
the proportion of the total funds spent for negro education might properly
be less than their numbers would indicate. The certain racial groups of the foreign population
could be separated from the total, it would be found that less than
the average is spent upon them for the same reasons.

The percentage of school attendance of negro children is lower than for
the case of white children. The districts or townships which have voted additional
local taxes are usually those in which there are comparatively few
negroes.

However, when all allowances have been made, it is obvious that the negro
is receiving less than a fair share of the appropriations made by the
teachers, although low, is as large as can be earned in most of the
occupations open to them, and any sudden or large increase would
neither immediately raise the standard of competency nor insure has
a much larger proportion of the ability of the race.



THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                   |
    |                                                           |
    | Page 140: "It can only be as is must be" replaced with    |
    |           "It can only be as it must be" INVITATION FROM WHITE HOUSE.
    
    When he render it of this people Washington received invitations from
all parts of the South to deliver addresses and attend receptions given by
white people. He was received by the Governors of Georgia, Virginia,
West Virginia and Louisiana