17. What is a "Pyrrhic victory"?

18. Compare the nature of Roman rule over Italy with that of Athens over the Delian League.

19. Trace on the map, page 156, the Appian and Flaminian ways, noting some of the cities along
the routes and the terminal points of each road.

20. Explain: "all roads lead to Rome."

21. Contrast the legion and the phalanx as to arrangement, armament, and method of fighting.

22. "Rome seems greater than her greatest men."

[2] See page 67.

[3] See page 28.

[4] See pages 53, 61.

[5] Naples, the ancient Neapolis, was a colony of Cumae. See page 89.

[6] See the map facing page 50.

[7] The Romans believed that their city was founded in 753 B.C., from which year all Roman
dates were reckoned.

[8] See the map, page 293.

[9] See page 146.

[10] Cato, De agricultura, I.

[11] See page 6.

[12] See the illustration, page 7.

[13] Since a door (janua) had two sides, Janus, the door god, was represented with the curious
double face which appears on Roman coins (See the plate facing page 134) The month of January
in the Julian calendar was named for him.

[14] Latin auspicium, from auspex, a bird seer.

[15] The title of the president of the pontiffs, Pontifex Maximus (Supreme Pontiff), is still
that of the pope. See page 364.

[16] See page 81.

[17] See page 143.

[18] See page 83.

[19] From the Latin patres, "fathers."

[20] Latin plebs, "the crowd."

[21] See page 85.

[22] See page 105.

[23] The four letters inscribed on Roman military standards indicate the important place held
by the Senate. They are S. P. Q. R., standing for Senatus Populusque Romanus, "The Senate and
the People of Rome."

[24] See page 129.

[25] See page 118.

[26] See page 89.

[27] Plutarch, Pyrrhus, 21.

[28] It should be noticed, however, that as yet Rome controlled only the central and southern
parts of what is the modern kingdom of Italy. Two large divisions of that kingdom, which every
Italian now regards as essential to its unity, were in other hands--the Po valley and the island
of Sicily.

[29] See page 106.

[30] Latin colonists did not have the right of voting in the assemblies at Rome. This privilege
was enjoyed, however, by members of the "Roman" colonies, which were planted mainly along the
coast. See the map, page 156.

[31] See page 40.

[32] See page 116.

CHAPTER VIII

THE GREAT AGE OF THE ROMAN REPUBLIC, 264-31 B.C. [1]

56. THE RIVALS: ROME AND CARTHAGE, 264-218 B.C.

THE PUNIC WARS

The conquest of Italy made Rome one of the five leading states of the Mediterranean world. I
never knew them to fail before. Would mademoiselle object to wearing a slight addition of false
hair?' he asked anxiously, after a moment's pause.

'Indeed, I should not like it,' was the reply. 'Besides, Monsieur Lagnier, you have often told
me that, in all Paris, it was impossible to obtain any of the same shade as mine.'
'Ah, but I have succeeded at last!' exclaimed he; and as he spoke,
he drew triumphantly from his pocket a small packet, in which was
carefully enveloped a long lock of soft golden hair.

FOUNDATION OF CARTHAGE

More than a century before the traditional date at which Rome rose upon her seven hills, Phoenician
colonists laid the foundations of a second Tyre. The new city occupied an admirable site, for
it bordered on rich farming land and had the largest harbor of the north African coast. A position
at the junction of the eastern and western basins of the Mediterranean gave it unsurpassed
opportunities for trade. At the same time Carthage was far enough away to be out of the reach
of Persian or Macedonian conquerors.

COMMERCIAL EMPIRE OF CARTHAGE

By the middle of the third century B.C. the Carthaginians had formed an imposing commercial
empire. Their African dominions included the strip of coast from Cyrene westward to the strait
of Gibraltar. Their colonies covered the shores of Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, and southern
Spain. The western half of the Mediterranean had become a Carthaginian lake.

CARTHAGINIAN CIVILIZATION

Before the opening of the Punic wars Carthage had been much enlarged by emigrants from Tyre,
after the capture of that city by Alexander. [2] The Phoenician colonists kept their own language,
customs, and beliefs and did not mingle with the native African peoples. Carthage in form was
a republic, but the real power lay in the hands of one hundred men, selected from the great
merchant families. It was a government by capitalists who cared very little for the welfare
of the poor freemen and slaves over whom they ruled. The wealth of Carthage enabled her to
raise huge armies of mercenary soldiers and to build warships which in size, number, and equipment
surpassed those of any other Mediterranean state. Mistress of a wide realm, strong both by
land and sea, Carthage was now to prove herself Rome's most dangerous foe.

ORIGIN OF THE FIRST PUNIC WAR

The First Punic War was a contest for Sicily. The Carthaginians aimed to establish their rule
over that island, which from its situation seems to belong almost as much to Africa as to Italy.
But Rome, having become supreme in Italy, also cast envious eyes on Sicily. She believed, too,
that the Carthaginians, if they should conquer Sicily, would sooner or later invade southern
Italy. The fear for her possessions, as well as the desire to gain new ones, led Rome to fling
down the gage of battle.

COURSE AND RESULTS OF THE WAR, 264-241 B.C.

The contest between the two rival states began in 264 B.C. and lasted nearly twenty-four years.
The Romans overran Sicily and even made an unsuccessful invasion of Africa, but the main struggle
was on the sea. Here at first the Romans were at a disadvantage, for they had no ships as large
and powerful as those of the Carthaginians. With characteristic energy, however, they built
several great war fleets and finally won a complete victory over the enemy. The treaty of peace
provided that Carthage should abandon Sicily, return all prisoners without ransom, and pay
a heavy indemnity.

THE INTERVAL OF PREPARATION, 241-218 B.C.

Carthage, though beaten, had not been humbled. She had lost Sicily and the commercial monopoly
of the Mediterranean. But she was not ready to abandon all hope of recovering her former supremacy.
The peace amounted to no more than an armed truce. Both parties were well aware that the real
conflict was yet to come. The war, however, was delayed for nearly a quarter of a century.
During this interval Rome strengthened her military position by seizing the islands of Sardinia
and Corsica from Carthage and by conquering the Gauls in the Po valley. She must have been in
great distress to part with it. Do you know her? Did she sell it to you? What is her name? I
cannot bear to wear it: I shall be thinking of her continually.'

'Ah, Mademoiselle Adelaide, that is so like you! HANNIBAL AND THE GREAT PUNIC WAR, 218-201 B.C.

BEGINNING OF THE SECOND PUNIC WAR, 218 B.C.

The steady advance of the Carthaginian arms in Spain caused much uneasiness in Rome and at
length led that city to declare war. Carthage herself was not unwilling for a second trial
of strength. Her leading general, Hannibal, who had been winning renown in Spain, believed
that the Carthaginians were now in a position to wage an aggressive war against their mighty
rival. And so the two great Mediterranean powers, each confident of success, renewed the struggle
for supremacy.

HANNIBAL

At the opening of the conflict Hannibal was not quite twenty-seven years of age. While yet
a mere child, so the story went, his father had led him to the altar, and bade him swear by
the Carthaginian gods eternal enmity to Rome. He followed his father to Spain and there learned
all the duties of a soldier. As a master of the art of war, he ranks with Alexander the Great.
The Macedonian king conquered the world for the glory of conquest; Hannibal, burning with patriotism,
fought to destroy the power which had humbled his native land. He failed; and his failure left
Carthage weaker than he found her. Few men have possessed a more dazzling genius than Hannibal,
but his genius was not employed for the lasting good of humanity.

HANNIBAL'S INVASION OF ITALY

The Romans planned to conduct the war in Spain and Africa, at a distance from their own shores.
Hannibal's bold movements totally upset these calculations. The Carthaginian general had determined
that the conflict should take place in the Italian peninsula itself. Since Roman fleets now
controlled the Mediterranean, it was necessary for Hannibal to lead his army, with its supplies,
equipment, and beasts of burden, by the long and dangerous land route from Spain to Italy.
In the summer of 218 B.C. Hannibal set out from Spain with a large force of infantry and cavalry,
besides a number of elephants. Beyond the river Ebro he found himself in hostile territory,
through which the soldiers had to fight their way. To force the passage of the Pyrenees and
the Alps cost him more than half his original army. When, after a five months' march he stood
on the soil of Italy, Hannibal had scarcely twenty-five thousand troops with which to meet
the immense power of Rome--a power that, given time, could muster to her defense more than
half a million disciplined soldiers.

FIRST VICTORIES OF HANNIBAL

The Romans were surprised by the boldness and rapidity of Hannibal's movements. They had expected
to conduct the war far away in foreign lands; they now knew that they must fight for their
own homes and firesides. The first battles were complete victories for the Carthaginians and
opened the road to Rome. Hannibal's plans, however, did not include a siege of the capital.
He would not shatter his victorious army in an assault on a fortified town. Hannibal's real
object was to bring the Italians over to his side, to ruin Rome through the revolts of her
allies. But now he learned, apparently for the first time, that Italy was studded with Latin
colonies, [3] each a miniature Rome, each prepared to resist to the bitter end. Not a single
city opened its gates to the invader. On such solid foundations rested Roman rule in Italy.

A DICTATORSHIP

The Senate faced the crisis with characteristic energy. New forces were raised and intrusted
to a dictator, [4] Quintus Fabius Maximus. He refused to meet Hannibal in a pitched battle,
but followed doggedly his enemy's footsteps, meanwhile drilling his soldiers to become a match
for the Carthaginian veterans. This strategy was little to the taste of the Roman populace,
who nicknamed Fabius Cunctator, "the Laggard." However, it gave Rome a brief breathing space,
until her preparations to crush the invader should be completed.

BATTLE OF CANNAE, 316 B.C.

After the term of Fabius as dictator had expired, new consuls were chosen. They commanded the
largest army Rome had ever put in the field. The opposing forces met at Cannae in Apulia. The
Carthaginians numbered less than fifty thousand men; the Romans had more than eighty thousand
troops. Hannibal's sole superiority lay in his cavalry, which was posted on the wings with
the infantry occupying the space between. Hannibal's center was weak and gave way before the
Romans, who fought this time massed in solid columns. The arrangement was a poor one, for it
destroyed the mobility of the legions. The Roman soldiers, having pierced the enemy's lines,
now found themselves exposed on both flanks to the African infantry and taken in the rear by
Hannibal's splendid cavalry. The battle ended in a hideous butchery. One of the consuls died
fighting bravely to the last; the other escaped from the field and with the wreck of his army
fled to Rome. A Punic commander who survived such a disaster would have perished on the cross;
the Roman commander received the thanks of the Senate "for not despairing of the republic." [5]

AFTER CANNAE

The battle of Cannae marks the summit of Hannibal's career. He maintained himself in Italy
for thirteen years thereafter, but the Romans, taught by bitter experience, refused another
engagement with their foe. Hannibal's army was too small and too poorly equipped with siege
engines for a successful attack on Rome. His brother, Hasdrubal, led strong reinforcements
from Spain to Italy, but these were caught and destroyed before they could effect a junction
with Hannibal's troops. Meanwhile the brilliant Roman commander, Publius Scipio, drove the
Carthaginians from Spain and invaded Africa. Hannibal was summoned from Italy to face this
new adversary. He came, and on the field of Zama (202 B.C.) met his first and only defeat.
Scipio, the victor, received the proud surname, Africanus.

PEACE IN 201 B.C.

Exhausted Carthage could now do no more than sue for peace on any terms that Rome was willing
to grant. In the hour of defeat she still trusted her mighty soldier, and it was Hannibal who
conducted the final negotiations. The conditions of peace were severe enough. The Carthaginians
gave up Spain and all their ships except ten triremes. They were saddled with a huge indemnity
and bound to engage in no war without the consent of Rome. Carthage thus became a dependent
ally of the Roman city.

VICTORIOUS ROME

In describing the course and outcome of the Second Punic War our sympathies naturally go out
to the heroic figure of Hannibal, who fought so long and so bravely for his native land. It
is clear, however, that Rome's victory in the gigantic struggle was essential to the continued
progress of classical civilization. The triumph of Carthage in the third century, like that
of Persia in the fifth century, [6] must have resulted in the spread of Oriental ideas and
customs throughout the Mediterranean. From this fate Rome saved Europe.

58. ROMAN SUPREMACY IN THE WEST AND IN THE EAST, 201-133 B.C.

THIRD PUNIC WAR BEGUN, 148 B.C.

Carthage had been humbled, but not destroyed. She still enjoyed the advantages of her magnificent
situation and continued to be a competitor of Rome for the trade of the Mediterranean. The
Romans watched with jealousy the reviving strength of the Punic city and at last determined
to blot it out of existence. In 149 B.C. a large army was landed in Africa, and the inhabitants
of Carthage were ordered to remove ten miles from the sea. They resolved to perish in the ruins
of their capital, rather than obey such a cruel command.

DESTRUCTION OF CARTHAGE, 146 B.C.

Carthage held out for three years. The doubtful honor of its capture belonged to Scipio Aemilianus,
grandson, by adoption, of the victor of Zama. For seven days the legionaries fought their way,
street by street, house by house, until only fifty thousand inhabitants were left to surrender
to the tender mercies of the Romans. The Senate ordered that the city should be burned and
that its site should be plowed up and dedicated to the infernal gods. Such was the end of the
most formidable rival Rome ever met in her career of conquest. [7]

SICILY

The two European countries, Sicily and Spain, which Rome had taken from Carthage, presented
to the conqueror very different problems. Sicily had been long accustomed to foreign masters.
Its civilized and peace-loving inhabitants were as ready to accept Roman rule as, in the past,
they had accepted the rule of Greeks and Carthaginians. Every year the island became more and
more a part of Italy and of Rome.

SPAIN

Spain, on the contrary, gave the Romans some hard fighting. The wild Spanish tribes loved their
liberty, and in their mountain fastnesses long kept up a desperate struggle for independence.
It was not until the Romans sent Scipio Aemilianus to Spain that the Spanish resistance was
finally overcome (133 B.C.).

ROMANIZATION OF SPAIN

All Spain, except the inaccessible mountain district in the northwest, now became Roman territory.
Many colonists settled there; traders and speculators flocked to seaports; even the legionaries,
quartered in Spain for long periods, married Spanish wives and, on retiring from active service,
made their homes in the peninsula. Perhaps she was starving: there is so much misery in Paris!'
continued Mademoiselle de Varenne, after a pause.

'She was very pale and thin,' said the hairdresser; 'but then so are
the generality of our young citizens.

Do not make yourself unhappy about it, mademoiselle; I shall see her again, probably, and shall
endeavour to find out every circumstance respecting her.' With these words, M. Lagnier respectfully
took leave, having by one more expressive glance testified his delighted approval of the alteration
which had taken place in the young lady's appearance.

Adelaide, having summoned her maid, continued her toilet in a listless
and absent manner. Her thoughts were fixed upon the young girl whose
beauty had been sacrificed for hers, and an unconquerable desire to
learn her fate took possession of her mind. Thus disappeared a great power, which Philip
had founded and which Alexander had led to the conquest of the world.

ROME AND GREECE

Having subdued Macedonia, Rome proclaimed Greece a free state. But this "freedom" really meant
subjection, as was amply proved when some of the Greek cities rose in revolt against Roman
domination. The heavy hand of Roman vengeance especially descended on Corinth, at this time
one of the most beautiful cities of the world. In 146 B.C., the same year in which the destruction
of Carthage occurred, Corinth was sacked and burned to the ground. [10] The fall of Corinth
may be said to mark the final extinction of Greek liberty. Though the Hellenic cities and states
were allowed to rule themselves, they paid tribute and thus acknowledged the supremacy of Rome.
A century later, Greece became in name, as well as in fact, a province of the Roman Empire. [11]

ROME AND SYRIA

Rome, in the meantime, was drawn into a conflict with the kingdom of Syria. That Asiatic power
proved to be no more capable than Macedonia of checking the Roman advance. The Syrian king
had to give up the greater part of his possessions in Asia Minor. The western part of the peninsula,
together with the Greek cities on the coast, was formed in 133 B.C. into the province of Asia.
Thus the same year that witnessed the complete establishment of Roman rule in Spain saw Rome
gain her first possessions at the opposite end of the Mediterranean.

POLITICAL SITUATION IN 133 B.C.

Roman supremacy over the Mediterranean world was now all but complete. In 264 B.C. Rome had
been only one of the five great Mediterranean states. In 133 B.C. no other power existed to
match its strength with that of Rome. To her had fallen in the West the heritage of Carthage,
in the East the heritage of Alexander. Rome had built up this mighty empire at a terrible cost
in blood and treasure. Let us see what use she was to make of it.

59. THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD UNDER ROMAN RULE

CREATION OF THE PROVINCIAL SYSTEM

Rome's dealings with the new dependencies across the sea did not follow the methods that had
proved so successful in Italy. The Italian peoples had been treated with great liberality.
Rome regarded them as allies, exempted them from certain taxes, and in many instances gave
them Roman citizenship. It did not seem possible to extend this wise policy to remote and often
barbarous lands beyond the borders of Italy. Rome adopted, instead, much the same system of
imperial rule that had been previously followed by Persia and by Athens. [12] She treated the
foreign peoples from Spain to Asia as subjects and made her conquered territories into provinces.
[13] Their inhabitants were compelled to pay tribute and to accept the oversight of Roman officials.

EVILS OF THE PROVINCIAL SYSTEM

As the Romans came more and more to relish the opportunities for plunder afforded by a wealthy
province, its inhabitants were often wretchedly misgoverned. Many governors of the conquered
lands were corrupt and grasping men. They tried to wring all the money they could from their
helpless subjects. To the extortions of the governors must be added those of the tax collectors,
whose very name of "publican" [14] became a byword for all that was rapacious and greedy. In
this first effort to manage the world she had won, Rome had certainly made a failure. A city-state
could not rule, with justice and efficiency, an empire.

THE PROFITS OF CONQUEST

In the old days, before Rome entered on a career of foreign conquest, her citizens were famous
among men for their love of country, their simple lives, and their conservative, old-fashioned
ways. The man of science is, as it were, a workman employed in rearing up a structure for the man
of the world to look at or live in. The latter has no more necessary concern with the processes
of investigation and compilation, than a gentleman has with the making of the mortar and hewing of the
stones used in a house which he has ordered to be built for his residence.

Were the facts of science thus generalised, it is surprising how comprehensive a knowledge
of the whole system of the universe every person might have. Only generalise enough, and no one
need to be ignorant. Just in proportion as a man has little time
to bestow on learning, condense the more what you wish to impart,
and the result, where there is any fair degree of preparedness, will
be all the better. The Romans, indeed, seem to have conquered the
world less for glory than for profit.

GROWTH OF LUXURY

So much wealth poured into Rome from every side that there could scarcely fail to be a sudden
growth of luxurious tastes. Rich nobles quickly developed a relish for all sorts of reckless
display. They built fine houses adorned with statues, costly paintings, and furnishings. They
surrounded themselves with troops of slaves. Instead of plain linen clothes they and their
wives wore garments of silk and gold. At their banquets they spread embroidered carpets, purple
coverings, and dishes of gilt plate. Pomp and splendor replaced the rude simplicity of an earlier
age.

DISAPPEARANCE OF THE PEASANTRY

But if the rich were becoming richer, it seems that the poor were also becoming poorer. After
Rome became mistress of the Mediterranean, her markets were flooded with the cheap wheat raised
in the provinces, especially in those granaries, Sicily and Africa. The price of wheat fell
so low that Roman peasants could not raise enough to support their families and pay their taxes.
When agriculture became unprofitable, the farmer was no longer able to remain on the soil.
He had to sell out, often at a ruinous sacrifice. His land was bought by capitalists, who turned
many small fields into vast sheep pastures and cattle ranches. Gangs of slaves, laboring under
the lash, gradually took the place of the old Roman peasantry, the very strength of the state.
Not unjust was the famous remark, "Great domains ruined Italy." [15]

THE EXODUS OF THE CITIES

The decline of agriculture and the disappearance of the small farmer under the stress of foreign
competition may be studied in modern England as well as in ancient Italy. Nowadays an English
farmer, under the same circumstances, will often emigrate to America or to Australia, where
land is cheap and it is easy to make a living. But these Roman peasants did not care to go
abroad and settle on better soil in Spain or in Africa. They thronged, instead, to the cities,
to Rome especially, where they labored for a small wage, fared plainly on wheat bread, and
dwelt in huge lodging houses, three or four stories high.

THE CITY MOB

We know very little about this poorer population of Rome. They must have lived from hand to
mouth. Since their votes controlled elections, [16] they were courted by candidates for office
and kept from grumbling by being fed and amused. Such poor citizens, too lazy for steady work,
too intelligent to starve, formed, with the other riffraff of a great city, the elements of
a dangerous mob. And the mob, henceforth, plays an ever- larger part in the history of the times.

HELLENIC INFLUENCE AT ROME

We must not imagine, however, that all the changes in Roman life worked for evil. If the Romans
were becoming more luxurious, they were likewise gaining in culture. The conquests which brought
Rome in touch, first with Magna Graecia and Sicily, then with Greece itself and the Hellenic
East, prepared the way for the entrance of Hellenism. Roman soldiers and traders carried back
to Italy an acquaintance with Greek customs and ideas. Thousands of cultivated Greeks, some
as slaves, others as freemen, settled in the capital as actors, physicians, artists, and writers.
There they introduced the Greek language, as well as the religion, literature, and art of their
native land. Roman nobles of the better type began to take an interest in other things than
simply farming, commerce, or war. They imitated Greek fashions in dress and manners, collected
Greek books, and filled their homes with the productions of Greek artists. Henceforth every
aspect of Roman society felt the quickening influence of the older, richer culture of the Hellenic
world. It was a Roman poet who wrote, "Captive Greece captured her conqueror rude." [17]

60. THE GRACCHI

TIBERIUS AND GAIUS GRACCHUS

In 133 B.C., a year otherwise made memorable by the final subjugation of Spain and the acquisition
of Asia, efforts began Rome to remedy some of the disorders which were now seen to be sapping
the strength of Roman society. The first persons to undertake the work of reform were the two
brothers, Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus. The Gracchi belonged to the highest nobility of Rome.
Their father had filled a consulship and a censorship and had celebrated triumphs. Cornelia,
their mother, was a daughter of Scipio Africanus, the conqueror of Hannibal. A fine type of
the Roman matron, she called her boys her "jewels," more precious than gold, and brought them
up to love their country better than their own lives. Tiberius, the elder brother, was only
thirty years of age when he became a tribune and began his career in Roman politics.

AGRARIAN LAW OF TIBERIUS GRACCHUS

Tiberius signalized his election to the tribunate by bringing forward his celebrated agrarian
law. He proposed that the public lands of Rome, then largely occupied by wealthy men who alone
had the money necessary to work them with cattle and slaves, should be reclaimed by the state,
divided into small tracts, and given to the poorer citizens. By getting the people back again
on the soil, Tiberius hoped to revive the declining agriculture of Italy.

DEFECTS OF THE AGRARIAN LAW

