What a beautiful civilization ours is, supposed to be growing in intelligence and simplicity,
and yet voluntarily taking upon itself this artificial burden in an already overtaxed life!
The angels in heaven must admire and wonder. The cynic wants to know what is gained for any
rational being when a city-full of women undertake to make and receive formal visits with persons
whom for the most part they do not wish to see. What is gained, he asks, by leaving cards with
all these people and receiving their cards? When a woman makes her tedious rounds, why is she
always relieved to find people not in? When she can count upon her ten fingers the people she
wants to see, why should she pretend to want to see the others? Is any one deceived by it?
Does anybody regard it as anything but a sham and a burden? Much the cynic knows about it!
Is it not necessary to keep up what is called society? Is it not necessary to have an authentic
list of pasteboard acquaintances to invite to the receptions? And what would become of us without
Receptions? Everybody likes to give them. Everybody flocks to them with much alacrity. When
society calls the roll, we all know the penalty of being left out. Is there any intellectual
or physical pleasure equal to that of jamming so many people into a house that they can hardly
move, and treating them to a Babel of noises in which no one can make herself heard without
screaming? There is nothing like a reception in any uncivilized country. It is so exhilarating!
When a dozen or a hundred people are gathered together in a room, they all begin to raise their
voices and to shout like pool-sellers in the noble rivalry of "warious langwidges," rasping
their throats into bronchitis in the bidding of the conversational ring. If they spoke low,
or even in the ordinary tone, conversation would be possible. But then it would not be a reception,
as we understand it. We cannot neglect anywhere any of the pleasures of our social life. We
train for it in lower assemblies. Half a dozen women in a "call" are obliged to shout, just
for practice, so that they can be heard by everybody in the neighborhood except themselves.
Do not men do the same? If they do, it only shows that men also are capable of the higher civilization.

But does society--that is, the intercourse of congenial people--depend upon the elaborate system
of exchanging calls with hundreds of people who are not congenial? Such thoughts will sometimes
come by a winter fireside of rational-talking friends, or at a dinner-party not too large for
talk without a telephone, or in the summer-time by the sea, or in the cottage in the hills,
when the fever of social life has got down to a normal temperature. We fancy that sometimes
people will give way to a real enjoyment of life and that human intercourse will throw off
this artificial and wearisome parade, and that if women look back with pride, as they may,
upon their personal achievements and labors, they will also regard them with astonishment.
Women, we read every day, long for the rights and privileges of men, and the education and
serious purpose in life of men. And yet, such is the sweet self-sacrifice of their nature,
they voluntarily take on burdens which men have never assumed, and which they would speedily
cast off if they had. What should we say of men if they consumed half their time in paying
formal calls upon each other merely for the sake of paying calls, and were low-spirited if
they did not receive as many cards as they had dealt out to society? Have they not the time?
Have women more time? and if they have, why should they spend it in this Sisyphus task? Would
the social machine go to pieces--the inquiry is made in good faith, and solely for information--if
they made rational business for themselves to be attended to, or even if they gave the time
now given to calls they hate to reading and study, and to making their household civilizing
centres of intercourse and enjoyment, and paid visits from some other motive than "clearing
off their list"? If all the artificial round of calls and cards should tumble down, what valuable
thing would be lost out of anybody's life?

The question is too vast for the Drawer, but as an experiment in sociology it would like to
see the system in abeyance for one season. If at the end of it there had not been just as much
social enjoyment as before, and there were not fewer women than usual down with nervous prostration,
it would agree to start at its own expense a new experiment, to wit, a kind of Social Clearing-House,
in which all cards should be delivered and exchanged, and all social debts of this kind be
balanced by experienced bookkeepers, so that the reputation of everybody for propriety and
conventionality should be just as good as it is now.

DINNER-TABLE TALK

Many people suppose that it is the easiest thing in the world to dine if you can get plenty
to eat. This error is the foundation of much social misery. The world that never dines, and
fancies it has a grievance justifying anarchy on that account, does not know how much misery
it escapes. A great deal has been written about the art of dining. From time to time geniuses
have appeared who knew how to compose a dinner; indeed, the art of doing it can be learned,
as well as the art of cooking and serving it. It is often possible, also, under extraordinarily
favorable conditions, to select a company congenial and varied and harmonious enough to dine
together successfully. The tact for getting the right people together is perhaps rarer than
the art of composing the dinner. But it exists. And an elegant table with a handsome and brilliant
company about it is a common conjunction in this country. Instructions are not wanting as to
the shape of the table and the size of the party; it is universally admitted that the number
must be small. The big dinner-parties which are commonly made to pay off social debts are generally
of the sort that one would rather contribute to in money than in personal attendance. Link an
arm and we'll parade the place. I guess by the time we've finished there's not much you won't know
about the Villa Camellia."

"Have you been here long?" asked Irene, accepting the proffered arm
with alacrity, and submitting to be led away by her cicerone. Why it does not go when the viands are good and
the company is bright is one of the acknowledged mysteries.

