"Very well, Bronsfield," said the captain, "I will go and mark the result on my chart. Now
have the sounding-line brought in--that is a work of several hours. Meanwhile the engineer
shall have his fires lighted, and we shall be ready to start as soon as you have done. It is
10 p.m., and with your permission, lieutenant, I shall turn in."

"Certainly, sir, certainly!" answered Lieutenant Bronsfield amiably.

The captain of the Susquehanna, a worthy man if ever there was one, the very humble servant
of his officers, went to his cabin, took his brandy-and-water with many expressions of satisfaction
to the steward, got into bed, not before complimenting his servant on the way he made beds,
and sank into peaceful slumber.

It was then 10 p.m. The eleventh day of the month of December was going to end in a magnificent
night.

The Susquehanna, a corvette of 500 horse power, of the United States Navy, was taking soundings
in the Pacific at about a hundred leagues from the American coast, abreast of that long peninsula
on the coast of New Mexico.

The wind had gradually fallen. There was not the slightest movement in the air. The colours
of the corvette hung from the mast motionless and inert.

The captain, Jonathan Blomsberry, cousin-german to Colonel Blomsberry, one of the Gun Club
members who had married a Horschbidden, the captain's aunt and daughter of an honourable Kentucky
merchant--Captain Blomsberry could not have wished for better weather to execute the delicate
operation of sounding. His corvette had felt nothing of that great tempest which swept away
the clouds heaped up on the Rocky Mountains, and allowed the course of the famous projectile
to be observed. All was going on well, and he did not forget to thank Heaven with all the fervour
of a Presbyterian.

The series of soundings executed by the Susquehanna were intended for finding out the most
favourable bottoms for the establishment of a submarine cable between the Hawaiian Islands
and the American coast.

It was a vast project set on foot by a powerful company. Its director, the intelligent Cyrus
Field, meant even to cover all the islands of Oceania with a vast electric network--an immense
enterprise worthy of American genius.

It was to the corvette Susquehanna that the first operations of sounding had been entrusted.
During the night from the 11th to the 12th of December she was exactly in north lat. 27° 7'
and 41° 37' long., west from the Washington meridian.

The moon, then in her last quarter, began to show herself above the horizon.

After Captain Blomsberry's departure, Lieutenant Bronsfield and a few officers were together
on the poop. As the moon appeared their thoughts turned towards that orb which the eyes of
a whole hemisphere were then contemplating. The best marine glasses could not have discovered
the projectile wandering round the demi-globe, and yet they were all pointed at the shining
disc which millions of eyes were looking at in the same moment.

"They started ten days ago," then said Lieutenant Bronsfield. "What can have become of them?"

"They have arrived, sir," exclaimed a young midshipman, "and they are doing what all travellers
do in a new country, they are looking about them."

"I am certain of it as you say so, my young friend," answered Lieutenant Bronsfield, smiling.

"Still," said another officer, "their arrival cannot be doubted. The projectile must have reached
the moon at the moment she was full, at midnight on the 5th. We are now at the 11th of December;
that makes six days. Now in six times twenty-four hours, with no darkness, they have had time
to get comfortably settled. It seems to me that I see our brave countrymen encamped at the
bottom of a valley, on the borders of a Selenite stream, near the projectile, half buried by
its fall, amidst volcanic remains, Captain Nicholl beginning his levelling operations, President
Barbicane putting his travelling notes in order, Michel Ardan performing the lunar solitudes
with his Londrès cigar--"

"Oh, it must be so; it is so!" exclaimed the young midshipman, enthusiastic at the ideal description
of his superior.

"I should like to believe it," answered Lieutenant Bronsfield, who was seldom carried away.
"Unfortunately direct news from the lunar world will always be wanting."

"Excuse me, sir," said the midshipman, "but cannot President Barbicane write?"

A roar of laughter greeted this answer.

"Not letters," answered the young man quickly. "The post-office has nothing to do with that."

"Perhaps you mean the telegraph-office?" said one of the officers ironically.

"Nor that either," answered the midshipman, who would not give in. "But it is very easy to
establish graphic communication with the earth."

"And how, pray?"

"By means of the telescope on Long's Peak. You know that it brings the moon to within two leagues
only of the Rocky Mountains, and that it allows them to see objects having nine feet of diameter
on her surface. Well, our industrious friends will construct a gigantic alphabet! They will
write words 600 feet long, and sentences a league long, and then they can send up news!"

The young midshipman, who certainly had some imagination was loudly applauded. Lieutenant Bronsfield
himself was convinced that the idea could have been carried out. He added that by sending luminous
rays, grouped by means of parabolical mirrors, direct communications could also be established--in
fact, these rays would be as visible on the surface of Venus or Mars as the planet Neptune
is from the earth. He ended by saying that the brilliant points already observed on the nearest
planets might be signals made to the earth. But he said, that though by these means they could
have news from the lunar world, they could not send any from the terrestrial world unless the
Selenites have at their disposition instruments with which to make distant observations.

"That is evident," answered one of the officers, "but what has become of the travellers? What
have they done? What have they seen? That is what interests us. Besides, if the experiment
has succeeded, which I do not doubt, it will be done again. The Columbiad is still walled up
in the soil of Florida. It is, therefore, now only a question of powder and shot, and every
time the moon passes the zenith we can send it a cargo of visitors."

"It is evident," answered Lieutenant Bronsfield, "that J.T. Maston will go and join his friends
one of these days."

"If he will have me," exclaimed the midshipman, "I am ready to go with him."

"Oh, there will be plenty of amateurs, and if they are allowed to go, half the inhabitants
of the earth will soon have emigrated to the moon!"

This conversation between the officers of the Susquehanna was kept up till about 1 a.m. It
would be impossible to transcribe the overwhelming systems and theories which were emitted
by these audacious minds. Since Barbicane's attempt it seemed that nothing was impossible to
Americans. They had already formed the project of sending, not another commission of savants,
but a whole colony, and a whole army of infantry, artillery, and cavalry to conquer the lunar
world.

At 1 a.m. the sounding-line was not all hauled in. Ten thousand feet remained out, which would
take several more hours to bring in. According to the commander's orders the fires had been
lighted, and the pressure was going up already. The Susquehanna might have started at once.

At that very moment--it was 1.17 a.m.--Lieutenant Bronsfield was about to leave his watch to
turn in when his attention was attracted by a distant and quite unexpected hissing sound.

His comrades and he at first thought that the hissing came from an escape of steam, but upon
lifting up his head he found that it was high up in the air.

They had not time to question each other before the hissing became of frightful intensity,
and suddenly to their dazzled eyes appeared an enormous bolis, inflamed by the rapidity of
its course, by its friction against the atmospheric strata.

This ignited mass grew huger as it came nearer, and fell with the noise of thunder upon the
bowsprit of the corvette, which it smashed off close to the stem, and vanished in the waves.

A few feet nearer and the Susquehanna would have gone down with all on board.

At that moment Captain Blomsberry appeared half-clothed, and rushing in the forecastle, where
his officers had preceded him--

"With your permission, gentlemen, what has happened?" he asked.

And the midshipman, making himself the mouthpiece of them all, cried out--

"Commander, it is 'they' come back again."

CHAPTER XXI.

J.T. MASTON CALLED IN.

Emotion was great on board the Susquehanna. Officers and sailors forgot the terrible danger
they had just been in--the danger of being crushed and sunk. They only thought of the catastrophe
which terminated the journey. Thus, therefore, the moat audacious enterprise of ancient and
modern times lost the life of the bold adventurers who had attempted it.

"It is 'they' come back," the young midshipman had said, and they had all understood. No one
doubted that the bolis was the projectile of the Gun Club. Opinions were divided about the
fate of the travellers.

"They are dead!" said one.

"They are alive," answered the other. "The water is deep here, and the shock has been deadened."

"But they will have no air, and will die suffocated!"

"Burnt!" answered the other. "Their projectile was only an incandescent mass as it crossed
the atmosphere."

"What does it matter?" was answered unanimously, "living or dead they must be brought up from
there."

Meanwhile Captain Blomsberry had called his officers together, and with their permission he
held a council. Something must be done immediately. The most immediate was to haul up the projectile--a
difficult operation, but not an impossible one. But the corvette wanted the necessary engines,
which would have to be powerful and precise. It was, therefore, resolved to put into the nearest
port, and to send word to the Gun Club about the fall of the bullet.

This determination was taken unanimously. The choice of a port was discussed. The neighbouring
coast had no harbour on the 27th degree of latitude. Higher up, above the peninsula of Monterey,
was the important town which has given its name to it. But, seated on the confines of a veritable
desert, it had no telegraphic communication with the interior, and electricity alone could
spread the important news quickly enough.

Some degrees above lay the bay of San Francisco. Through the capital of the Gold Country communication
with the centre of the Union would be easy. By putting all steam on, the Susquehanna, in less
than two days, could reach the port of San Francisco. She must, therefore, start at once.

The fires were heaped up, and they could set sail immediately. Two thousand fathoms of sounding
still remained in the water. Captain Blomsberry would not lose precious time in hauling it
in, and resolved to cut the line.

"We will fix the end to a buoy," said he, "and the buoy will indicate the exact point where
the projectile fell."

"Besides," answered Lieutenant Bronsfield, "we have our exact bearings: north lat. 27° 7',
and west long. 41° 37'."

"Very well, Mr. Bronsfield," answered the captain; "with your permission, have the line cut."

A strong buoy, reinforced by a couple of spars, was thrown out on to the surface of the ocean.
The end of the line was solidly struck beneath, and only submitted to the ebb and flow of the
surges, so that it would not drift much.

At that moment the engineer came to warn the captain that he had put the pressure on, and they
could start. The captain thanked him for his excellent communication. Then he gave N.N.E. as
the route. The corvette was put about, and made for the bay of San Francisco with all steam
on. It was then 3 a.m.

Two hundred leagues to get over was not much for a quick vessel like the Susquehanna. It got
over that distance in thirty-six hours, and on the 14th of December, at 1.27 p.m., she would
enter the bay of San Francisco.

At the sight of this vessel of the national navy arriving with all speed on, her bowsprit gone,
and her mainmast propped up, public curiosity was singularly excited. A compact crowd was soon
assembled on the quays awaiting the landing.

After weighing anchor Captain Blomsberry and Lieutenant Bronsfield got down into an eight-oared
boat which carried them rapidly to the land.

They jumped out on the quay.

"The telegraph-office?" they asked, without answering one of the thousand questions that were
showered upon them.

The port inspector guided them himself to the telegraph-office, amidst an immense crowd of
curious people.

Blomsberry and Bronsfield went into the office whilst the crowd crushed against the door.

A few minutes later one message was sent in four different directions:--1st, to the Secretary
of the Navy, Washington; 2nd, to the Vice-President of the Gun Club, Baltimore; 3rd, to the
Honourable J.T. Maston, Long's Peak, Rocky Mountains; 4th, to the Sub-Director of the Cambridge
Observatory, Massachusetts.

It ran as follows:--

"In north lat. 20° 7', and west long. 41° 37', the projectile of the Columbiad fell into the
Pacific, on December 12th, at 1.17 am. Send instructions.--BLOMSBERRY, Commander Susquehanna."

Five minutes afterwards the whole town of San Francisco knew the tidings. Before 6 p.m. the
different States of the Union had intelligence of the supreme catastrophe. After midnight,
through the cable, the whole of Europe knew the result of the great American enterprise.

It would be impossible to describe the effect produced throughout the world by the unexpected news.

On receipt of the telegram the Secretary of the Navy telegraphed to the Susquehanna to keep
under fire, and wait in the bay of San Francisco. She was to be ready to set sail day or night.

The Observatory of Cambridge had an extraordinary meeting, and, with the serenity which distinguishes
scientific bodies, it peacefully discussed the scientific part of the question.

At the Gun Club there was an explosion. All the artillerymen were assembled. The Vice-President,
the Honourable Wilcome, was just reading the premature telegram by which Messrs. Maston and
Belfast announced that the projectile had just been perceived in the gigantic reflector of
Long's Peak. This communication informed them also that the bullet, retained by the attraction
of the moon, was playing the part of sub-satellite in the solar world.

The truth on this subject is now known.

However, upon the arrival of Blomsberry's message, which so formally contradicted J.T. Maston's
telegram, two parties were formed in the bosom of the Gun Club. On the one side were members
who admitted the fall of the projectile, and consequently the return of the travellers. On
the other were those who, holding by the observations at Long's Peak, concluded that the commander
of the Susquehanna was mistaken. According to the latter, the pretended projectile was only
a bolis, nothing but a bolis, a shooting star, which in its fall had fractured the corvette.
Their argument could not very well be answered, because the velocity with which it was endowed
had made its observation very difficult. The commander of the Susquehanna and his officers
might certainly have been mistaken in good faith. One argument certainly was in their favour:
if the projectile had fallen on the earth it must have touched the terrestrial spheroid upon
the 27th degree of north latitude, and, taking into account the time that had elapsed, and
the earth's movement of rotation, between the 41st and 42nd degree of west longitude.

However that might be, it was unanimously decided in the Gun Club that Blomsberry's brother
Bilsby and Major Elphinstone should start at once for San Francisco and give their advice about
the means of dragging up the projectile from the depths of the ocean.

These men started without losing an instant, and the railway which was soon to cross the whole
of Central America took them to St. Louis, where rapid mail-coaches awaited them.

Almost at the same moment that the Secretary of the Navy, the Vice-President of the Gun Club,
and the Sub-Director of the Observatory received the telegram from San Francisco, the Honourable
J.T. Maston felt the most violent emotion of his whole existence--an emotion not even equalled
by that he had experienced when his celebrated cannon was blown up, and which, like it, nearly
cost him his life.

It will be remembered that the Secretary of the Gun Club had started some minutes after the
projectile--and almost as quickly--for the station of Long's Peak in the Rocky Mountains. The
learned J. Belfast, Director of the Cambridge Observatory, accompanied him. Arrived at the
station the two friends had summarily installed themselves, and no longer left the summit of
their enormous telescope.

We know that this gigantic instrument had been set up on the reflecting system, called "front
view" by the English. This arrangement only gave one reflection of objects, and consequently
made the view much clearer. The result was that J.T. Maston and Belfast, whilst observing,
were stationed in the upper part of the instrument instead of in the lower. They reached it
by a twisted staircase, a masterpiece of lightness, and below them lay the metal, well terminated
by the metallic mirror, 280 feet deep.

Now it was upon the narrow platform placed round the telescope that the two savants passed
their existence, cursing the daylight which hid the moon from their eyes, and the clouds which
obstinately veiled her at night.

Who can depict their delight when, after waiting several days, during the night of December
5th they perceived the vehicle that was carrying their friends through space? To that delight
succeeded deep disappointment when, trusting to incomplete observations, they sent out with
their first telegram to the world the erroneous affirmation that the projectile had become
a satellite of the moon gravitating in an immutable orbit.

After that instant the bullet disappeared behind the invisible disc of the moon. But when it
ought to have reappeared on the invisible disc the impatience of J.T. Maston and his no less
impatient companion may be imagined. At every minute of the night they thought they should
see the projectile again, and they did not see it. Hence between them arose endless discussions
and violent disputes, Belfast affirming that the projectile was not visible, J.T. Maston affirming
that any one but a blind man could see it.

"It is the bullet!" repeated J.T. Maston.

"No!" answered Belfast, "it is an avalanche falling from a lunar mountain!"

"Well, then, we shall see it to-morrow."

"No, it will be seen no more. It is carried away into space."

"We shall see it, I tell you."

"No, we shall not."

And while these interjections were being showered like hail, the well-known irritability of
the Secretary of the Gun Club constituted a permanent danger to the director, Belfast.

Their existence together would soon have become impossible, but an unexpected event cut short
these eternal discussions.

During the night between the 14th and 15th of December the two irreconcilable friends were
occupied in observing the lunar disc. J.T. Maston was, as usual, saying strong things to the
learned Belfast, who was getting angry too. The Secretary of the Gun Club declared for the
thousandth time that he had just perceived the projectile, adding even that Michel Ardan's
face had appeared at one of the port-lights. He was emphasising his arguments by a series of
gestures which his redoubtable hook rendered dangerous.

At that moment Belfast's servant appeared upon the platform--it was 10 p.m.--and gave him a
telegram. It was the message from the Commander of the Susquehanna.

Belfast tore the envelope, read the inclosure, and uttered a cry.

"What is it?" said J.T. Maston.

"It's the bullet!"

"What of that?"

"It has fallen upon the earth!"

Another cry; this time a howl answered him.

He turned towards J.T. Maston. The unfortunate fellow, leaning imprudently over the metal tube,
had disappeared down the immense telescope--a fall of 280 feet! Belfast, distracted, rushed
towards the orifice of the reflector.

He breathed again. J.T. Maston's steel hook had caught in one of the props which maintained
the platform of the telescope. He was uttering formidable cries.

Belfast called. Help came, and the imprudent secretary was hoisted up, not without trouble.

He reappeared unhurt at the upper orifice.

"Suppose I had broken the mirror?" said he.

"You would have paid for it," answered Belfast severely.

"And where has the infernal bullet fallen?" asked J.T. Maston.

"Into the Pacific."

"Let us start at once."

A quarter of an hour afterwards the two learned friends were descending the slope of the Rocky
Mountains, and two days afterwards they reached San Francisco at the same time as their friends
of the Gun Club, having killed five horses on the road.

Elphinstone, Blomsberry, and Bilsby rushed up to them upon their arrival.

"What is to be done?" they exclaimed.

"The bullet must be fished up," answered J.T. Maston, "and as soon as possible!"

CHAPTER XXII.

PICKED UP.

The very spot where the projectile had disappeared under the waves was exactly known. The instruments
for seizing it and bringing it to the surface of the ocean were still wanting. They had to
be invented and then manufactured. American engineers could not be embarrassed by such a trifle.
The grappling-irons once established and steam helping, they were assured of raising the projectile,
notwithstanding its weight, which diminished the density of the liquid amidst which it was plunged.

But it was not enough to fish up the bullet. It was necessary to act promptly in the interest
of the travellers. No one doubted that they were still living.

"Yes," repeated J.T. Maston incessantly, whose confidence inspired everybody, "our friends
are clever fellows, and they cannot have fallen like imbeciles. They are alive, alive and well,
but we must make haste in order to find them so. He had no anxiety about provisions and water.
They had enough for a long time! But air!--air would soon fail them. Then they must make haste!"

And they did make haste. They prepared the Susquehanna for her new destination. Her powerful
engines were arranged to be used for the hauling machines. The aluminium projectile only weighed
19,250 lbs., a much less weight than that of the transatlantic cable, which was picked up under
similar circumstances. The only difficulty lay in the smooth sides of the cylindro-conical
bullet, which made it difficult to grapple.

With that end in view the engineer Murchison, summoned to San Francisco, caused enormous grappling-irons
to be fitted upon an automatical system which would not let the projectile go again if they
succeeded in seizing it with their powerful pincers. He also had some diving-dresses prepared,
which, by their impermeable and resisting texture, allowed divers to survey the bottom of the
sea. He likewise embarked on board the Susquehanna apparatuses for compressed air, very ingeniously
contrived. They were veritable rooms, with port-lights in them, and which, by introducing the
water into certain compartments, could be sunk to great depths. These apparatuses were already
at San Francisco, where they had been used in the construction of a submarine dyke. This was
fortunate, for there would not have been time to make them.

Yet notwithstanding the perfection of the apparatus, notwithstanding the ingenuity of the savants
who were to use them, the success of the operation was anything but assured. Fishing up a bullet
from 20,000 feet under water must be an uncertain operation. And even if the bullet should
again be brought to the surface, how had the travellers borne the terrible shock that even
20,000 feet of water would not sufficiently deaden?

In short, everything must be done quickly. J.T. Maston hurried on his workmen day and night.
He was ready either to buckle on the diver's dress or to try the air-apparatus in order to
find his courageous friends.

Still, notwithstanding the diligence with which the different machines were got ready, notwithstanding
the considerable sums which were placed at the disposition of the Gun Club by the Government
of the Union, five long days (five centuries) went by before the preparations were completed.
During that time public opinion was excited to the highest point. Telegrams were incessantly
exchanged all over the world through the electric wires and cables. The saving of Barbicane,
Nicholl, and Michel Ardan became an international business. All the nations that had subscribed
to the enterprise of the Gun Club were equally interested in the safety of the travellers.

At last the grappling-chains, air-chambers, and automatic grappling-irons were embarked on
board the Susquehanna. J.T. Maston, the engineer Murchison, and the Gun Club delegates already
occupied their cabins. There was nothing to do but to start.

On the 21st of December, at 8 p.m., the corvette set sail on a calm sea with a rather cold
north-east wind blowing. All the population of San Francisco crowded on to the quays, mute
and anxious, reserving its hurrahs for the return.

The steam was put on to its maximum of tension, and the screw of the Susquehanna carried it
rapidly out of the bay.

It would be useless to relate the conversations on board amongst the officers, sailors, and
passengers. All these men had but one thought. Their hearts all beat with the same emotion.
What were Barbicane and his companions doing whilst they were hastening to their succour? What
had become of them? Had they been able to attempt some audacious manoeuvre to recover their
liberty? No one could say. The truth is that any attempt would have failed. Sunk to nearly
two leagues under the ocean, their metal prison would defy any effort of its prisoners.

On the 23rd of December, at 8 a.m., after a rapid passage, the Susquehanna ought to be on the
scene of the disaster. They were obliged to wait till twelve o'clock to take their exact bearings.
The buoy fastened on to the sounding-line had not yet been seen.

At noon Captain Blomsberry, helped by his officers, who controlled the observation, made his
point in presence of the delegates of the Gun Club. That was an anxious moment. The Susquehanna
was found to be at some minutes west of the very spot where the projectile had disappeared
under the waves.

The direction of the corvette was therefore given in view of reaching the precise spot.

At 12.47 p.m. the buoy was sighted. It was in perfect order, and did not seem to have drifted far.

"At last!" exclaimed J.T. Maston.

"Shall we begin?" asked Captain Blomsberry.

"Without losing a second," answered J.T. Maston.

Every precaution was taken to keep the corvette perfectly motionless.

Before trying to grapple the projectile, the engineer, Murchison, wished to find out its exact
position on the sea-bottom. The submarine apparatus destined for this search received their
provision of air. The handling of these engines is not without danger, for at 20,000 feet below
the surface of the water and under such great pressure they are exposed to ruptures the consequences
of which would be terrible.

J.T. Maston, the commander's brother, and the engineer Murchison, without a thought of these
dangers, took their places in the air-chambers. The commander, on his foot-bridge, presided
over the operation, ready to stop or haul in his chains at the least signal. The screw had
been taken off, and all the force of the machines upon the windlass would soon have brought
up the apparatus on board.

The descent began at 1.25 p.m., and the chamber, dragged down by its reservoirs filled with
water, disappeared under the surface of the ocean.

The emotion of the officers and sailors on board was now divided between the prisoners in the
projectile and the prisoners of the submarine apparatus. These latter forgot themselves, and,
glued to the panes of the port-lights, they attentively observed the liquid masses they were
passing through.

The descent was rapid. At 2.17 p.m. J.T. Maston and his companions had reached the bottom of
the Pacific; but they saw nothing except the arid desert which neither marine flora nor fauna
any longer animated. By the light of their lamps, furnished with powerful reflectors, they
could observe the dark layers of water in a rather large radius, but the projectile remained
invisible in their eyes.

The impatience of these bold divers could hardly be described. Their apparatus being in electric
communication with the corvette, they made a signal agreed upon, and the Susquehanna carried
their chamber over a mile of space at one yard from the soil.

They thus explored all the submarine plain, deceived at every instant by optical delusions
which cut them to the heart. Here a rock, there a swelling of the ground, looked to them like
the much-sought-for projectile; then they would soon find out their error and despair again.

"Where are they? Where can they be?" cried J.T. Maston.

And the poor man called aloud to Nicholl, Barbicane, and Michel Ardan, as if his unfortunate
friends could have heard him through that impenetrable medium!

The search went on under those conditions until the vitiated state of the air in the apparatus
forced the divers to go up again.

The hauling in was begun at 6 p.m., and was not terminated before midnight.

"We will try again to-morrow," said J.T. Maston as he stepped on to the deck of the corvette.

"Yes," answered Captain Blomsberry.

"And in another place."

"Yes."

J.T. Maston did not yet doubt of his ultimate success, but his companions, who were no longer
intoxicated with the animation of the first few hours, already took in all the difficulties
of the enterprise. What seemed easy at San Francisco in open ocean appeared almost impossible.
The chances of success diminished in a large proportion, and it was to chance alone that the
finding of the projectile had to be left.

The next day, the 24th of December, notwithstanding the fatigues of the preceding day, operations
were resumed. The corvette moved some minutes farther west, and the apparatus, provisioned
with air again, took the same explorers to the depths of the ocean.

All that day was passed in a fruitless search. The bed of the sea was a desert. The day of
the 25th brought no result, neither did that of the 26th.

It was disheartening. They thought of the unfortunate men shut up for twenty-six days in the
projectile. Perhaps they were all feeling the first symptoms of suffocation, even if they had
escaped the dangers of their fall. The air was getting exhausted, and doubtless with the air
their courage and spirits.

"The air very likely, but their courage never," said J.T. Maston.

On the 28th, after two days' search, all hope was lost. This bullet was an atom in the immensity
of the sea! They must give up the hope of finding it.

Still J.T. Maston would not hear about leaving. He would not abandon the place without having
at least found the tomb of his friends. But Captain Blomsberry could not stay on obstinately,
and notwithstanding the opposition of the worthy secretary, he was obliged to give orders to
set sail.

On the 29th of December, at 9 a.m., the Susquehanna, heading north-east, began to return to
the bay of San Francisco.

It was 10 a.m. The corvette was leaving slowly and as if with regret the scene of the catastrophe,
when the sailor at the masthead, who was on the look-out, called out all at once--

"A buoy on the lee bow!"

The officers looked in the direction indicated. They saw through their telescopes the object
signalled, which did look like one of those buoys used for marking the openings of bays or
rivers; but, unlike them, a flag floating in the wind surmounted a cone which emerged five
or six feet. This buoy shone in the sunshine as if made of plates of silver.

The commander, Blomsberry, J.T. Maston, and the delegates of the Gun Club ascended the foot-bridge
and examined the object thus drifting on the waves.

All looked with feverish anxiety, but in silence. None of them dared utter the thought that
came into all their minds.

The corvette approached to within two cables' length of the object.

A shudder ran through the whole crew.

The flag was an American one!

At that moment a veritable roar was heard. It was the worthy J.T. Maston, who had fallen in
a heap; forgetting on the one hand that he had only an iron hook for one arm, and on the other
that a simple gutta-percha cap covered his cranium-box, he had given himself a formidable blow.

They rushed towards him and picked him up. They recalled him to life. And what were his first
words?

"Ah! triple brutes! quadruple idiots! quintuple boobies that we are!"

"What is the matter?" every one round him exclaimed.

"What the matter is?"

"Speak, can't you?"

"It is, imbeciles," shouted the terrible secretary, "it is the bullet only weighs 19,250 lbs!"

"Well?"

"And it displaces 28 tons, or 56,000 lbs., consequently it floats!"

Ah! how that worthy man did underline the verb "to float!" And it was the truth! All, yes!
all these savants had forgotten this fundamental law, that in consequence of its specific lightness
the projectile, after having been dragged by its fall to the greatest depths of the ocean,
had naturally returned to the surface; and now it was floating tranquilly whichever way the
wind carried them.

The boats had been lowered. J.T. Maston and his friends rushed into them. The excitement was
at its highest point. All hearts palpitated whilst the boats rowed towards the projectile.
What did it contain--the living or the dead? The living. Yes! unless death had struck down
Barbicane and his companions since they had hoisted the flag!

Profound silence reigned in the boats. All hearts stopped beating. Eyes no longer performed
their office. One of the port-lights of the projectile was opened. Some pieces of glass remaining
in the frame proved that it had been broken. This port-light was situated actually five feet
above water.

A boat drew alongside--that of J.T. Maston. He rushed to the broken window.

At that moment the joyful and clear voice of Michel Ardan was heard exclaiming in the accents
of victory--"Double blank, Barbicane, double blank!"

Barbicane, Michel Ardan, and Nicholl were playing at dominoes.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE END.

It will be remembered that immense sympathy accompanied the three travellers upon their departure.
If the beginning of their enterprise had caused such excitement in the old and new world, what
enthusiasm must welcome their return! Would not those millions of spectators who had invaded
the Floridian peninsula rush to meet the sublime adventurers? Would those legions of foreigners
from all points of the globe, now in America, leave the Union without seeing Barbicane, Nicholl,
and Michel Ardan once more? No, and the ardent passion of the public would worthily respond
to the grandeur of the enterprise. Human beings who had left the terrestrial spheroid, who
had returned after their strange journey into celestial space, could not fail to be received
like the prophet Elijah when he returned to the earth. To see them first, to hear them afterwards,
was the general desire.

This desire was to be very promptly realised by almost all the inhabitants of the Union.

Barbicane, Michel Ardan, Nicholl, and the delegates of the Gun Club returned without delay
to Baltimore, and were there received with indescribable enthusiasm. The president's travelling
notes were ready to be given up for publicity. The New York Herald bought this manuscript at
a price which is not yet known, but which must have been enormous. In fact, during the publication
of the Journey to the Moon they printed 5,000,000 copies of that newspaper. Three days after
the travellers' return to the earth the least details of their expedition were known. The only
thing remaining to be done was to see the heroes of this superhuman enterprise.

The exploration of Barbicane and his friends around the moon had allowed them to control the
different theories about the terrestrial satellite. These savants had observed it de visu and
under quite peculiar circumstances. It was now known which systems were to be rejected, which
admitted, upon the formation of this orb, its origin, and its inhabitability. Its past, present,
and future had given up their secrets. What could be objected to conscientious observations
made at less than forty miles from that curious mountain of Tycho, the strangest mountain system
of lunar orography? What answers could be made to savants who had looked into the dark depths
of the amphitheatre of Pluto? Who could contradict these audacious men whom the hazards of
their enterprise had carried over the invisible disc of the moon, which no human eye had ever
seen before? It was now their prerogative to impose the limits of that selenographic science
which had built up the lunar world like Cuvier did the skeleton of a fossil, and to say, "The
moon was this, a world inhabitable and inhabited anterior to the earth! The moon is this, a
world now uninhabitable and uninhabited!"

In order to welcome the return of the most illustrious of its members and his two companions,
the Gun Club thought of giving them a banquet; but a banquet worthy of them, worthy of the
American people, and under such circumstances that all the inhabitants of the Union could take
a direct part in it.

All the termini of the railroads in the State were joined together by movable rails. Then,
in all the stations hung with the same flags, decorated with the same ornaments, were spread
tables uniformly dressed. At a certain time, severely calculated upon electric clocks which
beat the seconds at the same instant, the inhabitants were invited to take their places at
the same banquet.

During four days, from the 5th to the 9th of January, the trains were suspended like they are
on Sundays upon the railways of the Union, and all the lines were free.

One locomotive alone, a very fast engine, dragging a state saloon, had the right of circulating,
during these four days, upon the railways of the United States.

This locomotive, conducted by a stoker and a mechanic, carried, by a great favour, the Honourable
J.T. Maston, Secretary of the Gun Club.

The saloon was reserved for President Barbicane, Captain Nicholl, and Michel Ardan.

The train left the station of Baltimore upon the whistle of the engine-driver amidst the hurrahs
and all the admiring interjections of the American language. It went at the speed of eighty
leagues an hour. But what was that speed compared to the one with which the three heroes had
left the Columbiad?

Thus they went from one town to another, finding the population in crowds upon their passage
saluting them with the same acclamations, and showering upon them the same "bravoes." They
thus travelled over the east of the Union through Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Massachusetts,
Vermont, Maine, and New Brunswick; north and west through New York, Ohio, Michigan, and Wisconsin;
south through Illinois, Missouri, Arkansas, Texas, and Louisiana; south-east through Alabama
and Florida, Georgia, and the Carolinas; they visited the centre through Tennessee, Kentucky,
Virginia, and Indiana; then after the station of Washington they re-entered Baltimore, and
during four days they could imagine that the United States of America, seated at one immense
banquet, saluted them simultaneously with the same hurrahs.

This apotheosis was worthy of these heroes, whom fable would have placed in the ranks of demigods.

And now would this attempt, without precedent in the annals of travels, have any practical
result? Would direct communication ever be established with the moon? Would a service of navigation
ever be founded across space for the solar world? Will people ever go from planet to planet,
from Jupiter to Mercury, and later on from one star to another, from the Polar star to Sirius,
would a method of locomotion allow of visiting the suns which swarm in the firmament?

No answer can be given to these questions, but knowing the audacious ingenuity of the Anglo-Saxon
race, no one will be astonished that the Americans tried to turn President Barbicane's experiment
to account.

Thus some time after the return of the travellers the public received with marked favour the
advertisement of a Joint-Stock Company (Limited), with a capital of a hundred million dollars,
divided into a hundred thousand shares of a thousand dollars each, under the name of National
Company for Interstellar Communication--President, Barbicane; Vice-President, Captain Nicholl;
Secretary, J.T. Maston; Director, Michel Ardan--and as it is customary in America to foresee
everything in business, even bankruptcy, the Honourable Harry Trollope, Commissary Judge, and
Francis Dayton were appointed beforehand assignees.

THE END.