KALITAN

                        Our Little Alaskan Cousin

                         By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet

Author of "Our Little Spanish Cousin", "With a pessimist in Spain," "God, the King, My Brother,"
etc.

                                  1907

Illustrated

TO MY LITTLE SON John Nixon de Roulet

Preface

Away up toward the frozen north lies the great peninsula, which the United States bought from
the Russians, and thus became responsible for the native peoples from whom the Russians had
taken the land.

There are many kinds of people there, from Indians to Esquimos, and they are under the American
Government, yet they have no votes and are not called American citizens.

It is about this country and its people that this little story is written, and in the hope
of interesting American girls and boys in these very strange people, their Little Alaskan Cousins.

Contents

     I. KALITAN TENAS

    II. AROUND THE CAMP-FIRE

   III. TO THE GLACIER

    IV. TED MEETS MR. BRUIN

     V. A MONSTER OF THE DEEP

    VI. THE ISLAND HOME OF KALITAN

   VII. TWILIGHT TALES AND TOTEMS

  VIII. THE BERRY DANCE  IX. ON THE WAY TO NOME

     X. IN THE GOLD COUNTRY

    XI. AFTERNOON TEA IN AN EGLU

   XII. THE SPLENDOUR OF SAGHALIE TYEE

List of Illustrations

"KALITAN FISHED DILIGENTLY BUT CAUGHT LITTLE"

"AWAY WENT ANOTHER STINGING LANCE"

"A GROUP OF PEOPLE AWAITING THE CANOES"

"MOUNT SHISHALDIN"

"'LET'S WATCH THOSE TWO MEN. THEY HAVE EVIDENTLY STAKED A CLAIM TOGETHER'"

"TWO FUNNY LITTLE LAPP BABIES HE TOOK TO RIDE ON A LARGE REINDEER"

KALITAN

Our Little Alaskan Cousin

CHAPTER I

KALITAN TENAS

It was bitterly cold. Kalitan Tenas felt it more than he had in the long winter, for then it
was still and calm as night, and now the wind was blowing straight in from the sea, and the
river was frozen tight. A month before, the ice had begun to break and he had thought the cold
was over, and that the all too short Alaskan summer was at hand. Now it was the first of May,
and just as he had begun to think of summer pleasures, lo! a storm had come which seemed to
freeze the very marrow of his bones. However, our little Alaskan cousin was used to cold and
trained to it, and would not dream of fussing over a little snow-storm.

Kalitan started out to fish for his dinner, and though the snow came down heavily and he had
to break through the ice to make a fishing-hole, and soon the ice was a wind-swept plain where
even his own tracks were covered with a white pall, he fished steadily on. He never dreamed
of stopping until he had fish enough for dinner, for, like most of his tribe, he was persevering
and industrious.

Kalitan was a Thlinkit, though, if you asked him, he would say he was "Klinkit." This is a
tribe which has puzzled wise people for a long time, for the Thlinkits are not Esquimos, not
Indians, not coloured people, nor whites. They are the tribes living in Southeastern Alaska
and along the coast. Many think that a long, long time ago, they came from Japan or some far
Eastern country, for they look something like the Japanese, and their language has many words
similar to Japanese in it.

Perhaps, long years ago, some shipwrecked Japanese were cast upon the coast of Alaska, and,
finding their boats destroyed and the land good to live in, settled there, and thus began the
Thlinkit tribes.

The Chilcats, Haidahs, and Tsimsheans are all Thlinkits, and are by far the best of the brown
people of the Northland. They are honest, simple, and kind, and more intelligent than the Indians
living farther north, in the colder regions. The Thlinkit coast is washed by the warm current
from the Japan Sea, and it is not much colder than Chicago or Boston, though the winter is
a little longer.

Kalitan fished diligently but caught little. He was warmly clad in sealskin; around his neck
was a white bearskin ruff, as warm as toast, and very pretty, too, as soft and fluffy as a
lady's boa. On his feet were moccasins of walrus hide. He had been perhaps an hour watching
the hole in the ice, and knelt there so still that he looked almost as though he were frozen.
Indeed, that was what those thought who saw him there, for suddenly a dog-sledge came round
the corner of the hill and a loud halloo greeted his ears.

"Boston men," he said to himself as he watched them, "lost the trail."

They had indeed lost the trail, and Ted Strong had begun to think they would never find it again.

Chetwoof, their Indian guide, had not talked very much about it, but lapsed into his favourite
"No understan'," a remark he always made when he did not want to answer what was said to him.

Ted and his father were on their way from Sitka to the Copper River. Mr. Strong was on the
United States Geological Survey, which Ted knew meant that he had to go all around the country
and poke about all day among rocks and mountains and glaciers. He had come with his father
to this far Alaskan clime in the happiest expectation of adventures with bears and Indians,
always dear to the heart of a boy.

He was pretty tired of the sledge, having been in it since early morning, and he was cold and
hungry besides; so he was delighted when the dogs stopped and his father said:

"Hop out, son, and stretch your legs. We'll try to find out where we are before we go any farther."

Chetwoof meanwhile was interviewing the boy, who came quickly toward them, "Who are you?" demanded
Chetwoof.

"Kalitan Tenas," was the brief reply.

"Where are we?" was the next question.

"Near to Pilchickamin River."

"Where is a camp?"

"There," said the boy, pointing toward a clump of pine-trees. "Ours."

Ted by this time was tired of his own unwonted silence, and he came up to Kalitan, holding
out his hand.

"My name is Ted Strong," he said, genially, grinning cheerfully at the young Alaskan, "I say
this is a jolly place. I wish you would teach me to fish in a snow-hole. It must be great fun.
I like you; let's be friends!" Kalitan took the boy's hand in his own rough one.

"Mahsie" (thank you), he said, a sudden quick smile sweeping his dark face like a fleeting
sunbeam, but disappearing as quickly, leaving it grave again. "Olo?" (hungry).

"Yes," said Mr. Strong, "hungry and cold."

"Camp," said Kalitan, preparing to lead the way, with the hospitality of his tribe, for the
Thlinkits are always ready to share food and fire with any stranger. The two boys strode off
together, and Mr. Strong could scarcely help smiling at the contrast between them.

Ted was the taller, but slim even in the furs which almost smothered him, leaving only his
bright face exposed to the wind and weather. His hair was a tangle of yellow curls which no
parting could ever affect, for it stood straight up from his forehead like a golden fleece;
his mother called it his aureole. His skin was fair as a girl's, and his eyes as big and blue
as a young Viking's; but the Indian boy's locks were black as ink, his skin was swarthy, his
eyes small and dark, and his features that strange mixture of the Indian, the Esquimo, and
the Japanese which we often see in the best of our Alaskan cousins.

Boys, however, are boys all the world over, and friendly animals, and Ted was soon chattering
away to his newly found friend as if he had known him all his life.

"What's your name?" he asked.

"Kalitan," was the answer. "They call me Kalitan Tenas;[1] my father was Tyee."

[Footnote 1: Little Arrow.]

"Where is he?" asked Ted. He wanted to see an Indian chief.

"Dead," said Kalitan, briefly.

"I'm sorry," said Ted. He adored his own father, and felt it was hard on a boy not to have one.

"He was killed," said Kalitan, "but we had blood-money from them," he added, sternly.

"What's that?" asked Ted, curiously.

"Long time ago, when one man kill another, his clan must pay with a life. One must be found
from his tribe to cry? 'O-o-o-o-o-a-ha-a-ich-klu-kuk-ich-klu-kuk'" (ready to die, ready to
die). His voice wailed out the mournful chant, which was weird and solemn and almost made Ted
shiver. "But now," the boy went on? "Boston men" (Americans) "do not like the blood-tax, so
the murderer pays money instead. We got many blankets and baskets and moneys for Kalitan Tyee.
He great chief."

"Do you live here?" asked Ted.

"No, live on island out there." Kalitan waved his hand seaward. "Come to fish with my uncle,
Klake Tyee. This good fishing-ground."

"It's a pretty fine country," said Ted, glancing at the scene, which bore charm to other than
boyish eyes. To the east were the mountains sheltering a valley through which the frozen river
wound like a silver ribbon, widening toward the sea. A cold green glacier filled the valley
between two mountains with its peaks of beauty. Toward the shore, which swept in toward the
river's mouth in a sheltered cove, were clumps of trees, giant fir, aspen, and hemlock, green
and beautiful, while seaward swept the waves in white-capped loveliness.

Kalitan ushered them to the camp with great politeness and considerable pride.

"You've a good place to camp," said Mr. Strong, "and we will gladly share your fire until we
are warm enough to go on."

Ted's face fell. "Must we go right away?" he asked. "This is such a jolly place."

"No go to-day," said Kalitan, briefly, to Chetwoof. "Colesnass."[2]

[Footnote 2: Snow.]

"Huh!" said Chetwoof. "Think some."

"Here comes my uncle," said Kalitan, and he ran eagerly to meet an old Indian who came toward
the camp from the shore. He eagerly explained the situation to the Tyee, who welcomed the strangers
with grave politeness. He was an old-man, with a seamed, scarred faces but kindly eyes. Chief
of the Thlinkits, his tribe was scattered, his children dead, and Kalitan about all left to
him of interest in life.

"There will be more snow," he said to Mr. Strong. "You are welcome. Stay and share our fire
and food."

"Do let us stay, father," cried Ted, and his father smiled indulgently, but Kalitan looked
at him in astonishment. Alaskan boys are taught to hold their tongues and let their elders
decide matters, and Kalitan would never have dreamed of teasing for anything.

But Mr. Strong did not wish to face another snow-storm in the sledge, and knew he could work
but little till the storm was passed; so he readily consented to stay a few days and let Ted
see some real Alaskan hunting and fishing.

Both boys were delighted, and soon had the camp rearranged to accommodate the strangers. The
fire was built up, Ted and Kalitan gathering cones and fir branches, which made a fragrant
blaze, while Chetwoof cared for the dogs, and the old chief helped Mr. Strong pitch his tent
in the lee of some fragrant firs. Soon all was prepared and supper cooking over the coals,--a
supper of fresh fish and seal fat, which Alaskans consider a great delicacy, and to which Mr.
Strong added coffee and crackers from his stores,--and Indians and whites ate together in friendliness
and amity.

CHAPTER II

AROUND THE CAMP-FIRE

"How does if happen that you speak English, Kalitan?" asked Mr. Strong as they sat around the
camp-fire that evening. The snow had continued during the afternoon, and the boys had had an
exciting time coasting and snow-balling and enjoying themselves generally.

"I went for a few months to the Mission School at Wrangel," said Kalitan. "I learned much there.
They teach the boys to read and write and do sums and to work the ground besides. They learn
much more than the girls." "Huh!" said the old chief, grimly. "Girls learn too much. They no
good for Indian wives, and white men not marry them. Best for girls to stay at home at the
will of their fathers until they get husbands."

"So you've been in Wrangel," said Ted to Kalitan. "We went there, too. It's a dandy place.
Do you remember the fringe of white mountains back of the harbour? The people said the woods
were full of game, but we didn't have time to go hunting. There are a few shops there, but
it seemed to me a very small place to have been built since 1834. In the States whole towns
grow up in two or three weeks."

"Huh!" said Kalitan, with a quick shrug of his shoulders, "quick grow, sun fade and wind blow
down."

"I don't think the sun could ever fade in Wrangel," laughed Ted. "They told me there it hadn't
shone but fifteen days in three months. It rained all the time."

"Rain is nothing," said Kalitan. "It is when the Ice Spirit speaks in the North Wind's roar
and in the crackling of the floes that we tremble. The glaciers are the children of the Mountain
Spirit whom our fathers worshipped. He is angry, and lo! he hurls down icebergs in his wrath,
he tosses them about, upon the streams he tosses the kyaks like feathers and washes the land
with the waves of Sitth. When our people are buried in the ground instead of being burnt with
the fire, they must go for ever to the place of Sitth, of everlasting cold, where never sun
abides, nor rain, nor warmth."

Ted had listened spellbound to this poetic speech and gazed at Kalitan in open-mouthed amazement.
A boy who could talk like that was a new and delightful playmate, and he said: "Tell me more
about things, Kalitan," but the Indian was silent, ashamed of having spoken.

"What do you do all day when you are at home?" persisted the American.

"In winter there is nothing to do but to hunt and fish," said Kalitan. "Sometimes we do not
find much game, then we think of how, when a Thlinkit dies, he has plenty. If he has lived
as a good tribesman, his kyak glides smoothly over the silver waters into the sunset, until,
o'er gently flowing currents, it reaches the place of the mighty forest. A bad warrior's canoe
passes dark whirlpools and terrible rapids until he reaches the place we speak not of, where
reigns Sitth.

"In the summer-time we still hunt and fish. Many have learned to till the ground, and we gather
berries and wood for the winter. The other side of the inlet, the tree-trunks drift from the
Yukon and are stranded on the islands, so there is plenty for firewood. But upon our island
the women gather a vine and dry it. They collect seaweed for food in the early spring, and
dry it and press it into square cakes, which make good food after they have hung long In the
sun. They make baskets and sell them to the white people. Often my uncle and I take them to
Valdez, and once we brought back fifty dollars for those my mother made. There is always much
to do."

"Don't you get terribly cold hunting in the winter?" asked Ted.

"Thlinkit boy not a baby," said Kalitan, a trifle scornfully. "We begin to be hardened when
we are babies. When I was five years old, I left my father and went to my uncle to be taught.
Every morning I bathed in the ocean, even if I had to break ice to find water, and then I rolled
in the snow. After that my uncle brushed me with a switch bundle, and not lightly, for his
arm is strong. I must not cry out, no matter if he hurt, for a chief's son must never show,
pain nor fear. That would give his people shame."

"Don't you get sick?" asked Ted? who felt cold all over at the idea of being treated in such
a heroic manner.

"The Kooshta[3] comes sometimes," said Kalitan, "The Shaman[4] used to cast him out, but now
the white doctor can do it, unless the kooshta is too strong."

[Footnote 3: Kooshta, a spirit in animal's form which inhabits the body of sick persons and
must be cast out, according to Thlinkit belief.]

[Footnote 4: Shaman, native medicine-man.]

Ted was puzzled as to Kalitan's exact meaning, but did not like to ask too many questions for
fear of being impolite, so he only said: "Being sick is not very nice, anyhow."

"To be bewitched is the most terrible," said Kalitan, gravely.

"How does that happen?" asked Ted, eagerly, but Kalitan shook his head.

"It is not good to hear," he said. "The medicine-man must come with his drum and rattle, and
he is very terrible. If the white men will not allow any more the punishing of the witches,
they should send more of the white medicine-men, if we are not to have any more of our own."

"Boys should not talk about big things," said the old chief suddenly. He had been sitting quietly
over the fire, and spoke so suddenly that Kalitan collapsed into silence. Ted, too, quieted
down at the old chiefs stern voice and manner, and both boys sat and listened to the men talking,
while the snow still swirled about them.

Tyee Klake told Mr. Strong many interesting things about the coast country, and gave him valuable
information as to the route he should pursue in his search for interesting things in the mountains.

"It will be two weeks before the snow will break so you can travel in comfort," he said. "Camp
with us. We remain here one week, then we go to the island. We can take you there, you will
see many things, and your boy will hunt with Kalitan."

"Where is your island?" asked Mr. Strong.

Ted said nothing, but his eyes were fixed eagerly upon his father. It was easy to see that
he wished to accept the invitation.

"Out there." Tyee Klake pointed toward where the white coast-line seemed to fade into silvery blue.

"There are many islands; on some lives no one, but we have a village. Soon it will be nearly
deserted, for many of our people rove during the summer, and wander from one camping-ground
to another, seeking the best game or fish. But Kalitan's people remain always on the island.
Him I take with me to hunt the whale and seal, to gather the berries, and to trap the little
animals who bear fur. We find even seal upon our shores, though fewer since your people have
come among us."

"Which were the best, Russians or Americans?" asked Mr. Strong, curious to see what the old
Indian would say, but the Tyee was not to be caught napping.

"Men all alike." he said. "Thlinkit, Russian, American, some good, some bad. Russians used
Indians more, gave them hunting and fishing, and only took part of the skins. Americans like
to hunt and fish all themselves and leave nothing for the Indians. Russians teach quass, Americans
teach whiskey. Before white men came, Indians were healthy. They ate fish, game, berries; now
they must have other foods, and they're not good for Indians here."--he touched his stomach.
"Indian used to dress in skins and furs, now he must copy white man and shiver with cold. He
soon has the coughing sickness and then he goes into the unknown.

"But the government of the Americans is best because it tries to do some things for the Indian.
It teaches our boys useful things in the schools, and, if some of its people are bad, some
Indians are bad, too. Men all alike," he repeated with the calm stoicism of his race.

"The government is far away," said Mr. Strong, "and should not be blamed for the doings of
all its servants. I should like to see this island home of yours, and think we must accept
your invitation; shall we, Ted?" he smiled at the boy.

"Yes, indeed; thank you, sir," said Ted, and he and Kalitan grinned at each other happily.

"We shall stay in camp until the blue jay comes," said the old chief, smiling, "and then seek
the village of my people."

"What does the blue jay mean?" asked Ted, timidly, for he was very much in awe of this grave
old man.

Kalitan said something in Thlinkit to his uncle, and the old chief, looking kindly at the boy,
replied with, a nod:

"I will tell you the story of the blue jay," he said.

"My story is of the far, far north. Beside a salmon stream there dwelt people rich in slaves.
These caught and dried the salmon for the winter, and nothing is better to eat than dried salmon
dipped in seal oil. All the fish were caught and stored away, when lo! the whiteness fell from
heaven and the snows were upon them. It was the time of snow and they should not have complained,
but the chief was evil and he cursed the whiteness. No one should dare to speak evil of the
Snow Spirit, which comes from the Unknown! Deeper and deeper grew the snow. It flew like feathers
about the eglu,[5] and the slaves had many troubles in putting in limbs for the fire. Then
the snow came in flakes so large they seemed like the wings of birds, and the house was covered,
and they could no longer keep their kyaks on top of the snow. All were shut tight in the house,
and their fire and food ran low. They knew not how many days they were shut in, for there was
no way to tell the day from night, only they knew they were sore hungry and that the Snow Spirit
was angry and terrible in his anger.

[Footnote 5: Hut.]

"But each one spoke not; he only chose a place where he should lie down and die when he could
bear no more.

"Only the chief spoke, and he once. 'Snow Spirit,' he said aloud, 'I alone am evil. These are
not so. Slay me and spare!' But the Snow Spirit answered not, only the wind screamed around
the eglu, and his screams were terrible and sad. Then hope left the heart of the chief and
he prepared to die with all his people and all his slaves.

"But on the day when their last bit of food was gone, lo! something pecked at the top of the
smoke-hole, and it sang 'Nuck-tee,' and it was a blue jay. The chief heard and saw and wondered,
and, looking 'neath the smoke-hole, he saw a scarlet something upon the floor. Picking it up,
he found it was a bunch of Indian tomato berries, red and ripe, and quickly hope sprang in
his breast.

"'Somewhere is summer,' he cried, 'Let us up and away.'

"Then the slaves hastened to dig out the canoe, and they drew it with mighty labour, for they
were weak from fasting, over the snows to the shore, and there they launched it without sail
or paddle, with all the people rejoicing. And after a time the wind carried them to a beach
where all was summer. Birds sang, flowers bloomed, and berries gleamed scarlet in the sun,
and there were salmon jumping in the blue water. They ate and were satisfied, for it was summer
on the earth and summer in their hearts.

"That is how the Thlinkits came to our island, and so we say when the snow breaks, that now
comes the blue jays."

"Thank you for telling us such a dandy story." cried Ted, who had not lost a word of this quaint
tale, told so graphically over the camp-fire of the old chief Klake.

CHAPTER III

TO THE GLACIER

Ted slept soundly all night, wrapped in the bearskins from the sledge, in the little tent he
shared with his father. When the morning broke, he sprang to his feet and hurried out of doors,
hopeful for the day's pleasures. The snow had stopped, but the ground was covered with a thick
white pall, and the mountains were turned to rose colour in the morning sun, which was rising
in a blaze of glory.

"Good morning, Kalitan," shouted Ted to his Indian friend, whom he spied heaping wood upon
the camp-fire. "Isn't it dandy? What can we do to-day?"

"Have breakfast," said Kalitan, briefly. "Then do what Tyee says."

"Well, I hope he'll say something exciting." said Ted.

"Think good day to hunt," said Kalitan, as he prepared things for the morning meal.

"Where did you get the fish?" asked Ted.

"Broke ice-hole and fished when I got up," said the Thlinkit.

"You don't mean you have been fishing already," exclaimed the lazy Ted, and Kalitan smiled
as he said:

"White people like fish. Tyee said: 'Catch fish for Boston men's breakfast,' and I go."

"Do you always mind him like that?" asked Ted. He generally obeyed his father, but there were
times when he wasn't anxious to and argued a little about it. Kalitan looked at him in astonishment.

"He chief!" he said, simply.

"What will we do with the camp if we all go hunting?" asked Ted.

"Nothing," said Kalitan.

"Leave Chetwoof to watch, I suppose," I continued Ted.

"Watch? Why?" asked Kalitan.

"Why, everything; some one will steal our things," said Ted.

"Thlinkits not steal," said Kalitan, with dignity. "Maybe white man come along and steal from
his brothers; Indians not. If we go away to long hunt, we cache blankets and no one would touch."

"What do you mean by cache?" asked Ted.

"We build a mound hut near the house, and put there the blankets and stores. Sometime they
stay there for years, but no one would take from a cache. If one has plenty of wood by the
seashore or in the forest, he may cord it and go his way and no one will touch it. A deer hangs
on a tree where dogs may not reach it, but no stray hunter would slice even a piece. We are
not thieves."

"It is a pity you could not send missionaries to the States, you Thlinkits, my boy," said Mr.
Strong, who had come up in time to hear Kalitan's words, "I'm afraid white people are less honest."

"Teddy, do you know we are to have some hunting to-day, and that you'll get your first experience
with a glacier."

"Hurrah," shouted Ted, dancing up and down in excitement.

"Tyee Klake says we can hunt toward the base of the glacier, and I shall try to go a little
ways upon it and see how the land lies, or, rather, the ice. It is getting warmer, and, if
it continues a few days, the snow will melt enough to let us go over to that island you are
so anxious to see."

Ted's eyes shone, and the amount of breakfast he put away quite prepared him for his day's
work, which, pleasant though it might be, certainly was hard work. The chief said they must
seek the glacier first before the sun got hot, for it was blinding on the snow. So they set
out soon after breakfast, leaving Chetwoof in charge of the camp, and with orders to catch
enough fish for dinner.

"We'll be ready to eat them, heads and tails," said Ted, and his father added, laughingly:

"'Bible, bones, and hymn-book, too.'"

"What does that mean?" asked Ted, as Kalitan looked up inquiringly.

"Once a writer named Macaulay said he could make a rhyme for any word in the English language,
and a man replied, 'You can't rhyme Timbuctoo.' But he answered without a pause:

"If I were a Cassowary On the plains of Timbuctoo, I'd eat up a missionary, Bible, bones, and
hymn-book, too."

Ted laughed, but Kalitan said, grimly:

"Not good to eat Boston missionary, he all skin and bone!"

"Where did they get the name Alaska?" asked Ted, as they tramped over the snow toward the glacier.

"Al-ay-ck-sa--great country," said Kalitan.

"It certainly is," said Ted. "It's fine! I never saw anything like this at home," pointing
as he spoke to the scene in front of him.

A group of evergreen trees, firs and the Alaska spruce, so useful for fires and torches, fringed
the edge of the ice-field, green and verdant in contrast to the gleaming snows of the mountain,
which rose in a gentle slope at first, then precipitously, in a dazzling and enchanting combination
of colour. It was as if some marble palace of old rose before them against the heavens, for
the ice was cut and serrated into spires and gables, turrets and towers, all seeming to be
ornamented with fretwork where the sun's rays struck the peaks and turned them into silver
and gold. Lower down the ice looked like animals, so twisted was it into fantastic shapes;
fierce sea monsters with yawning mouths seeming ready to devour; bears and wolves, whales,
gigantic elephants, and snowy tigers, tropic beasts looking strangely out of place in this
arctic clime.

Deep crevices cut the ice-fields, and in their green-blue depths lurked death, for the least
misstep would dash the traveller into an abyss which had no bottom. Beyond the glacier itself,
the snow-capped mountains rose grand and serene, their glittering peaks clear against the blue
sky, which hue the glacier reflected and played with in a thousand glinting shades, from purpling
amethyst to lapis lazuli and turquoise.

As they gazed spellbound, a strange thing occurred, a thing of such wonder and beauty that
Ted could but grasp his father's arm in silence.

Suddenly the peaks seemed to melt away, the white ice-pinnacles became real turrets, houses
and cathedrals appeared, and before them arose a wonderful city of white marble, dream-like
and shadowy, but beautiful as Aladdin's palace in the "Arabian Nights." At last Ted could keep
silent no longer.

"What is it?" he cried, and the old chief answered, gravely:

"The City of the Dead," but his father said:

"A mirage, my boy. They are often seen in these regions, but you are fortunate in seeing one
of the finest I have ever witnessed."

"What is a mirage?" demanded Ted.

"An optical delusion," said his father, "and one I am sure I couldn't explain so that you would
understand it. The queer thing about a mirage is that you usually see the very thing most unlikely
to be found in that particular locality. In the Sahara, men see flowers and trees and fountains,
and here on this glacier we see a splendid city."

"It certainly is queer. What makes glaciers, daddy?" Ted was even more interested than usual
in his father's talk because of Kalitan, whose dark eyes never left Mr. Strong's face, and
who seemed to drink in every word of information as eagerly as a thirsty bird drinks water.

"The dictionaries tell you that glaciers are fields of ice, or snow and ice, formed in the
regions of perpetual snow, and moving slowly down the mountain slopes or valleys. Many people
say the glaciers are the fathers of the icebergs which float at sea, and that these are broken
off the glacial stream, but others deny this. When the glacial ice and snow reaches a point
where the air is so warm that the ice melts as fast as it is pushed down from above, the glacier
ends and a river begins. These are the finest glaciers in the world, except, perhaps, those
of the Himalayas.

"This bids fair to be a wonderfully interesting place for my work, Ted, and I'm glad you're
likely to be satisfied with your new friends, for I shall have to go to many places and do
a lot of things less interesting than the things Kalitan can show you.

"See these blocks of fine marble and those superb masses of porphyry and chalcedony,--but there's
something which will interest you more. Take my gun and see if you can't bring down a bird
for supper."

Wild ducks were flying low across the edge of the glacier and quite near to the boys, and Ted
grasped his father's gun in wild excitement. He was never allowed to touch a gun at home. Dearly
as he loved his mother, it had always seemed very strange to him that she should show such
poor taste about firearms, and refuse to let him have any; and now that he had a gun really
in his hands, he could hardly hold it, he was so excited. Of course it was not the first time,
for his father had allowed him to practise shooting at a mark ever since they had reached Alaska,
but this was the first time he had tried to shoot a living target. He selected his duck, aimed
quickly, and fired. Bang! Off went the gun, and, wonder of wonders! two ducks fell instead of one.

"Well done, Ted, that duck was twins," cried his father, laughing, almost as excited as the
boy himself, and they ran to pick up the birds. Kalitan smiled, too, and quietly picked up
one, saying:

"This one Kalitan's," showing, as he spoke, his arrow through the bird's side, for he had discharged
an arrow as Ted fired his gun.

"Too bad, Ted. I thought you were a mighty hunter, a Nimrod who killed two birds with one stone,"
said Mr. Strong, but Ted laughed and said:

"So I got the one I shot at, I don't care." They had wild duck at supper that night, for Chetwoof
plucked the birds and roasted them on a hot stone over the spruce logs, and Ted, tired and
wet and hungry, thought he had never tasted such a delicious meal in his life.

CHAPTER IV

TED MEETS MR. BRUIN

It seemed to Ted as if he had scarcely touched the pillow on the nights which followed before
it was daylight, and he would awake to find the sun streaming in at his tent flap. He always
meant to go fishing with Kalitan before breakfast, so the moment he woke up he jumped out of
bed, if his pile of fragrant pine boughs covered with skins could be called a bed, and hurried
through his toilet. Quick as he tried to be, however, he was never ready before Kalitan, for,
when Ted appeared, the Indian boy had always had his roll in the snow and was preparing his lines.

Kalitan was perfectly fascinated with the American boy. He thought him the most wonderful specimen
of a boy that he had ever seen. He knew so much that Kalitan did not, and talked so brightly
that being with Ted was to the Indian like having a book without the bother of reading. There
were some things about him that Kalitan could not understand, to be sure. Ted talked to his
father just as if he were another boy. He even spoke to Tyee Klake on occasions when that august
personage had not only not asked him a question, but was not speaking at all. From the Thlinkit
point of view, this was a most remarkable performance on Ted's part, but Kalitan thought it
must be all right for a "Boston boy," for even the stern old chief seemed to regard happy-go-lucky
Ted with approval.

Ted, on the other hand, thought Kalitan the most remarkable boy he had ever met in all his
life. He had not been much with boys. His "Lady Mother," as he always called the gentle, brown-eyed
being who ruled his father and himself had not cared to have her little Galahad mingle with
the rougher city boys who thronged the streets, and had kept him with herself a great deal.
Ted had loved books, and he and his little sister Judith had lived in a pleasant atmosphere
of refinement, playing happily together until the boy had grown almost to dread anything common
or low. His mother knew he had moral courage, and would face any issue pluckily, but his father
feared he would grow up a milksop, and thought he needed hardening.

Mrs. Strong objected to the hardening process if it consisted in turning her boy loose to learn
the ways of the city streets, but had consented to his going with his father, urged thereto
by fears for his health, which was not of the best, and the knowledge that he had reached the
"bear and Indian" age, and it was certainly a good thing for him to have his experiences first-hand.

To Ted the whole thing was perfectly delightful. When he lay down at night, he would often
like to see "Mother and Ju," but he was generally so tired that he was asleep before he had
time to think enough to be really homesick. During the day there was too much doing to have
any thinking time, and, since he had met this boy friend, he thought of little else but him
and what they were to do next. The Tyee had assured Mr. Strong that it was perfectly safe for
the boys to go about together.

"Kalitan knows all the trails," he said. "He take care of white brother. Anything come, call
Chetwoof."

As Mr. Strong was very anxious to penetrate the glacier under Klake's guidance, and wanted
Ted to enjoy himself to the full, he left the boys to themselves, the only stipulation being
that they should not go on the water without Chetwoof.

There seemed to be always something new to do. As the days grew warmer, the ice broke in the
river, and the boys tramped all over the country. Ted learned to use the bow and arrow, and
brought down many a bird for supper, and proud he was when he served up for his father a wild
duck, shot, plucked, and cooked all by himself.

They fished in the stream by day and set lines by night. They trapped rabbits and hares in
the woods, and one day even got a silver fox, a skin greatly prized by the fur traders on account
of its rarity. Kalitan insisted that Ted should have it, though he could have gotten forty
dollars for it from a white trader, and Ted was rejoiced at the idea of taking it home to make
a set of furs for Judith.

One day Ted had a strange experience, and not a very pleasant one, which might have been very
serious had it not been for Kalitan. He had noticed a queer-looking plant on the riverbank
the day before, and had stopped to pick it up, when he received such a sudden and unexpected
pricking as to cause him to jump back and shout for Kalitan. His hand felt as if it had been
pierced by a thousand needles, and he flew to a snow-bank to rub it with snow.

"I must have gotten hold of some kind of a cactus," he said to Kalitan, who only replied:

"Huh! picked hedgehog," as he pointed to where Ted's cactus was ambling indignantly away with
every quill rattling and set straight out in anger at having his morning nap disturbed. Kalitan
wrapped Ted's hand in soft mud, which took the pain out, but he couldn't use it much for the
next few days, and did not feel eager to hunt when his father and the Tyee started out in the
morning. Kalitan remained with him, although his eyes looked wistful, for he had heard the
chief talk about bear tracks having been seen the day before. Bears were quite a rarity, but
sometimes an old cinnamon or even a big black bruin would venture down in search of fresh fish,
which he would catch cleverly with his great paws.

Kalitan and Ted fished awhile, and then Ted wandered away a little, wondering what lay around
a point of rock which he had never yet explored. Something lay there which he had by no means
expected to see, and he scarcely knew what to make of it. On the river-bank, close to the edge
of the stream, was a black figure, an Indian fishing, as he supposed, and he paused to watch.
The fisherman was covered with fur from head to foot, and, as Ted watched him, he seemed to
have no line or rod. Going nearer, the boy grew even more puzzled? and, though the man's back
was toward him, he could easily see that there was something unusual about the figure. Just
as he was within hailing distance and about to shout, the figure made a quick dive toward the
water and sprang back again with a fish between his paws, and Ted saw that it was a huge bear.
He gave a sharp cry and then stood stock-still. The creature looked around and stood gnawing
his fish and staring at Ted as stupidly as the boy stared at him. Then Ted heard a halloo behind
him and Kalitan's voice:

"Run for Chetwoof, quick!"

Ted obeyed as the animal started to move off. He ran toward the camp, hearing the report of
Kalitan's gun as he ran. Chetwoof, hearing the noise, hurried out, and it was but a few moments
before he was at Kalitan's side. To Ted it seemed like a day before he could get back and see
what was happening, but he arrived on the scene in time to see Chetwoof despatch the animal.

"Hurrah!" cried Ted. "You've killed a bear," but Chetwoof only grunted crossly.

"Very bad luck!" he said, and Kalitan explained:

"Indians don't like to kill bears or ravens. Spirits in them, maybe ancestors."

Ted looked at him in great astonishment, but Kalitan explained:

"Once, long ago, a Thlinkit girl laughed at a bear track in the snow and said: 'Ugly animal
must have made that track!' But a bear heard and was angry. He seized the maiden and bore her
to his den, and turned her into a bear, and she dwelt with him, until one day her brother killed
the bear and she was freed. And from that day Thlinkits speak respectfully of bears, and do
not try to kill them, for they know not whether it is a bear or a friend who hides within the
shaggy skin."

The Tyee and Mr. Strong were greatly surprised when they came home to see the huge carcass
of Mr. Bruin, and they listened to the account of Kalitan's bravery. The old chief said little,
but he looked approvingly at Kalitan, and said "Hyas kloshe" (very good), which unwonted praise
made the boy's face glow with pleasure. They had a great discussion as to whom the bear really
belonged. Ted had found him, Kalitan had shot him first, and Chetwoof had killed him, so they
decided to go shares. Ted wanted the skin to take home, and thought it would make a splendid
rug for his mother's library, so his father paid Kalitan and Chetwoof what each would have
received as their share had the skin been sold to a trader, and they all had bear meat for
supper. Ted thought it finer than any beefsteak he had ever eaten, and over it Kalitan smacked
his lips audibly.

CHAPTER V

A MONSTER OF THE DEEP

The big bear occupied considerable attention for several days. He had to be carefully skinned
and part of the meat dried for future use. Alaskans never use salt for preserving meat. Indeed
they seem to dislike salt very much. It had taken Ted some time to learn to eat all his meat
and fish quite fresh, without a taste of salt, but he had grown to like it. There is something
in the sun and wind of Alaska which cures meat perfectly, and the bear's meat was strung on
sticks and dried in the sun so that they might enjoy it for a long time.

It seemed as if the adventure with Bruin was enough to last the boys for several days, for
Ted's hand still pained him from the porcupine's quills, and he felt tired and lazy. He lay
by the camp-fire one afternoon listening to Kalitan's tales of his island home, when his father
came in from a long tramp, and, looking at him a little anxiously, asked:

"What's the matter, son?"

"Nothing, I'm only tired," said Ted, but Kalitan said:

"Porcupine quills poison hand. Well in a few days."

"So your live cactus is getting in his work, is he? I'm glad it wasn't the bear you mistook
for an Alaskan posy and tried to pick. I'm tired myself," and Mr. Strong threw himself down
to rest.

"Daddy, how did we come to have Alaska, anyway?"

"Well, that's a long story," said his father, "but an interesting one."

"Do tell us about it," urged Ted. "I know we bought it, but what did we pay the Indians for
it? I shouldn't have thought they'd have sold such a fine country."

Kalitan looked up quickly, and there was a sudden gleam in his dark eyes that Ted had never
seen before.

"Thlinkits never sell," he said. "Russians steal."

Mr. Strong put his hand kindly on the boy's head.

"You're right, Kalitan," he said "The Russians never conquered the Thlinkits, the bravest tribe
in all Alaska.

"You see, Teddy, it was this way. A great many years ago, about 1740, a Danish sailor named
Bering, who was in the service of the Russians, sailed across the ocean and discovered the
strait named for him, and a number of islands. Some of these were not inhabited; others had
Indians or Esquimos on them, but, after the manner of the early discoverers, Bering took possession
of them all in the name of the Emperor of Russia. It doesn't seem right as we look at things
now, but in those days 'might made right,' and it was just the same way the English did when
they came to America.

"The Russians settled here, finding the fishing and furs fine things for trade, and driving
the Indians, who would not yield to them, farther and farther inland. In 1790 the Czar made
Alexander Baranoff manager of the trading company. Baranoff established trading-posts in various
places, and settled at Sitka, where you can see the ruins of the splendid castle he built.
The Russians also sent missionaries to convert the Indians to the Greek Church, which is the
church of Russia. The Indians, however, never learned to care for the Russians, and often were
cruelly treated by them. The Russians, however, tried to do something for their education,
and established several schools. One as early as 1775, on Kadiak Island, had thirty pupils,
who studied arithmetic, reading, navigation, and four of the mechanical trades, and this is
a better record than the American purchasers can show, I am sorry to say.

"One of the recent travellers[6] in Alaska says that he met in the country 'American citizens
who never in their lives heard a prayer for the President of the United States, nor of the
Fourth of July, nor the name of the capital of the nation, but who have been taught to pray
for the Emperor of Russia, to celebrate his birthday, and to commemorate the victories of ancient
Greece.' In March, 1867, the Russians sold Alaska to the United States for $7,200,000 in gold.
It was bought for a song almost, when we consider the immense amount of money made for the
government by the seal fisheries, the cod and salmon industries, and the opening of the gold
fields. The resources of the country are not half-known, and the government is beginning to
see this. That is one of the reasons they have sent me here, with the other men, to find out
what the earth holds for those who do not know how to look for its treasures. Gold is not the
best thing the earth produces. There is land in Alaska little known full of coal and other
useful minerals. Other land is covered with magnificent timber which could be shipped to all
parts of the world. There are pasture-lands where stock will fatten like pigs without any other
feeding; there are fertile soils which will raise almost any crops, and there are intelligent
Indians who can be taught to work and be useful members of society. I do not mean dragged off
to the United States to learn things they could never use in their home lives, but who should
be educated here to make the best of their talents in their home surroundings.

[Footnote 6: Dr. Sheldon Jackson, General Agent of Education in the Territory.]

"That is one crying shame to our government, that they have neglected the Alaskan citizens.
Forty years have been wasted, but we are beginning to wake up now, and twenty years more will
see the Indians of Kalitan's generation industrious men and women, not only clever hunters
and fishermen, but lumbermen, coopers, furniture makers, farmers, miners, and stock-raisers."

At this moment their quiet conversation was interrupted by a wild shout from the shore, and,
springing to their feet, they saw Chetwoof gesticulating wildly and shouting to the Tyee, who
had been mending his canoe by the riverbank. Kalitan dropped everything and ran without a word,
scudding like the arrow from which he took his name. Before Ted could follow or ask what was
the matter, from the ocean a huge body rose ten feet out of the water spouting jets of spray
twenty feet into the air, the sun striking his sides and turning them to glistening silver.
Then it fell back, the waters churning into frothy foam for a mile around.

"It's a whale, Ted, sure as you live. Luck certainly is coming your way," said his father;
but, at the word "whale," Ted had started after Kalitan, losing no time in getting to the scene
of action as fast as possible.

"Watch the Tyee!" called Kalitan over his shoulder, as both boys ran down to the water's edge.

The old chief was launching his kiak into the seething waters, and to Ted it seemed incredible
that he meant to go in that frail bark in pursuit of the mighty monster. The old man's face,
however, was as calm as though starting on a pleasure-trip in peaceful waters, and Ted watched
in breathless admiration to see what would happen next. Klake paddled swiftly out to sea, drawing
as near as he dared to where the huge monster splashed idly up and down like a great puppy
at play. He stopped the kiak and watched; then poised his spear and threw it, and so swift
and graceful was his gesture that Ted exclaimed in amazement.

"Tyee Klake best harpoon-thrower of all the Thlinkits;" said Kalitan, proudly. "Watch!"

Ted needed no such instructions. His keen eyes passed from fish to man and back again, and
no movement of the Tyee escaped him.

The instant the harpoon was thrown, the Tyee paddled furiously away, for when a harpoon strikes
a whale, he is likely to lash violently with his tail, and may destroy his enemy, and this
is a moment of terrible danger to the harpooner. But the whale was too much astonished to fight,
and, with a terrific splash, he dived deep, deep into the water, to get rid of that stinging
thing in his side, in the cold green waters below.

The Tyee waited, his grim face tense and earnest. It might have been fifteen minutes, for whales
often stay under water for twenty minutes before coming to the surface to breathe, but to Kalitan
and Ted it seemed an hour.

Then the spray dashed high into the air again, and the instant the huge body appeared, Klake
drew near, and away went another stinging lance again, swift and, oh! so sure of aim. This
time the whale struck out wildly, and Kalitan held his breath, while Ted gasped at the Tyee's
danger, for his kiak rocked like a shell and then was quite hidden from their sight by the
spray which was dashed heavenward like clouds of white smoke.

Once more the creature dived, and this time he stayed down only a few minutes, and, when he
came up, blood spouted into the air and dyed the sea crimson, and Kalitan exclaimed:

"Pierced his lungs! Now he must die."

There was one more bright, glancing weapon flying through the air, and Ted noticed attached
to it by a thong a curious-looking bulb, and asked Kalitan:

"What is on that lance?"

"Sealskin buoy," said Kalitan. "We make the bag and blow it up? tie it to the harpoon, and
when the lance sticks into the whale, the buoy makes it very hard for him to dive. After awhile
he dies and drifts ashore."

The waters about the whale were growing red, and the carcass seemed drifting out to sea, and
at last the Tyee seemed satisfied. He sent a last look toward the huge body, then turned his
kiak toward the watchers on the banks.

"If it only comes to shore," said Kalitan.

"What will you do with it?" asked Ted.

"Oh, there are lots of things we can do with a whale," said Kalitan. "The blubber is the best
thing to eat in all the world. Then we use the oil In a bowl with a bit of pith in it to light
our huts. The bones are all useful in building our houses. Whales were once bears, but they
played too much on the shore and ran away to sea, so they wore off all their fur on the rocks,
and had their feet nibbled off by the fishes."

"Well, this one didn't have his tail nibbled off at any rate," laughed Ted. "I saw it flap
at the Tyee, and thought that was the last of him, sure."

"Tyee much big chief," said Kalitan, and just then the old man's kiak drew near them, and he
stepped ashore as calmly as though he had not just been through so exciting a scene with a
mighty monster of the deep.

CHAPTER VI

THE ISLAND HOME OF KALITAN

Swift and even were the strokes of the paddles as the canoes sped over the water toward Kalitan's
Island home. Ted was so excited that he could hardly sit still, and Tyee Klake gave him a warning
glance and a muttered "Kooletchika."[7]

[Footnote 7: "Dangerous channel."]

The day before a big canoe had come to the camp, the paddlers bearing messages for the Tyee,
and he had had a long conversation with Mr. Strong. The result was astonishing to Teddy, for
his father told him that he was to go for a month to the island with Kalitan. This delighted
him greatly, but he was a little frightened when he found that his father was to stay behind.

"It's just this way, son," Mr. Strong explained to him. "I'm here in government employ, taking
government pay to do government work. I must do it and do it well in the shortest time possible.
You will have a far better time on the island with Kalitan than you could possibly have loafing
around the camp here. You couldn't go to many places where I am going, and, if my mind is easy
about you, I can take Chetwoof and do my work in half the time. I'll come to the island in
three or four weeks, and we'll take a week's vacation together, and then we'll hit the trail
for the gold-fields. Are you satisfied with this arrangement?"

"Yes, sir." Ted's tone was dubious, but his face soon cleared up. "A month won't be very long,
father."

"No, I'll wager you'll be sorry to leave when I come for you. Try and not make any trouble.
Of course Indian ways are not ours, but you'll get used to it all and enjoy it. It's a chance
most boys would be crazy over, and you'll have tales to tell when you get home to make your
playmates envy you. I'm glad I have a son I can trust to keep straight when he is out of my
sight," and he laid his hand affectionately on the boy's shoulder. Ted looked his father squarely
in the eye, but gave only a little nod in answer, then he laughed his clear, ringing laugh.

"Wouldn't mother have spasms!" he exclaimed. Mr. Strong laughed too, but said:

"You'll be just as well off tumbling around with Kalitan as falling off a glacier or two, as
you would be certain to do if you were with me."

Teddy felt a little blue when he said good-bye to his father, but Kalitan quickly dispelled
his gloom by a great piece of news. "Great time on island," he said, as the canoe glided toward
the dim outline of land to which Ted's thoughts had so often turned. "Tyee's whale came ashore.
We go to see him cut up."

"Hurrah!" cried Ted, delighted. "To think I shall see all that! What else will we do, Kalitan?"

"Hunt, fish, hear old Kala-kash stories. See berry dance if you stay long enough, perhaps a
potlatch; do many things," said the Indian.

One of the Indian paddlers said something to Kalitan, and he laughed a little, and Ted asked,
curiously: "What did he say?"

"Said Kalitan Tenas learned to talk as much as a Boston boy," said Kalitan, laughing heartily,
and Ted laughed, too.

The canoes were nearing the shore of a wooded island, and Ted saw a fringe of trees and some
native houses clustered picturesquely against them at the crest of a small hill which sloped
down to the water's edge where stood a group of people awaiting the canoes.

"My home," said Kalitan, pointing to the largest house, "my people." There was a great deal
of pride in his tone and look, and he received a warm welcome as the canoes touched land and
their occupants sprang on shore. The boys crowded around the young Indian and chattered and
gesticulated toward Ted, while a bright-looking little Malamute sprang upon Kalitan and nearly
knocked him down, covering his face with eager puppy kisses.

The girls were less boisterous, and regarded Teddy with shy curiosity. Some of them were quite
pretty, and the babies were as cunning as the puppies. They barked every time the dogs did,
in a funny, hoarse little way, and, indeed, Alaskan babies learn to bark long before they learn
to talk.

The Tyee's wife received Teddy kindly, and he soon found himself quite at home among these
hospitable people, who seemed always friendly and natural. Nearly all spoke some English, and
he rapidly added to his store of Chinook, so that he had no trouble in making himself understood
or in understanding. Of course he missed his father, but he had little time to be lonely. Life
in the village was anything but uneventful.

At first there was the whale to be attended to, and all the village turned out for that. The
huge creature had drifted ashore on the farther side of the island, and Ted was much interested
in seeing him gradually disposed of. Great masses of blubber were stripped from the sides to
be used later both for food and fuel, the whalebone was carefully secured to be sold to the
traders, and it seemed to Ted that there was not one thing in that vast carcass for which the
Indians did not have some use.

Ted soon tired of watching the many things done with the whale, but there was plenty to do
and see in the village. The village houses were all alike. There was one large room in which
the people cooked, ate, and slept. The girls had blankets strung across one corner, behind
which were their beds. Teddy was given one also for his corner of the great room in the Tyee's
house.

He learned to eat the food and to like it very much. There was dried fish, herons' eggs, berries,
or those put up in seal oil, which is obtained by frying the fat out of the blubber of the
seal. The Alaskans use this oil in nearly all their cooking, and are very fond of it. Ted ate
also dried seaweed, chopped and boiled in seal oil, which tasted very much like boiled and
salted leather, but he liked it very well. Indeed he grew so strong and well, out-of-doors
all day in the clear air and bright sunshine of the Alaskan June, that he could eat anything
and tramp all day without being too tired to sleep like a top all night, and wake ready for
a new day with a zest he never felt at home.

Fresh fish were plentiful. The boys caught salmon, smelts, and whitefish, and many were dried
for the coming winter, while clams, gum-boots, sea-cucumbers, and devil-fish, found on the
rocks of the shore, were every-day diet.

Kalitan's sister and Ted became great friends. She was older than Kalitan, and, though only
fifteen, was soon to be married to Tah-ge-ah, a fine young Indian who was ready to pay high
for her, which was not strange, for she was both pretty and sweet.

"At the next full moon," said Kalitan, "there will be a potlatch, and Tanana will be sold to
Tah-ge-ah. He says he will give four hundred blankets for her, and my uncle is well pleased.
Many only pay ten blankets for a wife, but of course we would not sell my sister for that.
She is of high caste, chief's daughter, niece, and sister," the boy spoke proudly, and Ted
answered:

"She's so pretty, too. She's not like the Indian girls I saw at Wrangel and Juneau. Why, there
the women sat around as dirty as dogs on the sidewalk, and didn't seem to care how they looked.
They had baskets to sell, and were too lazy to care whether any one bought them or not. They
weren't a bit like Tanana. She's as pretty as a Japanese."

Kalitan smiled, well pleased, and Ted added, "I guess the Thlinkits must be the best Indians
in Alaska."

Kalitan laughed outright at this.

"Thlinkits pretty good," he said. "Tanana good girl. She learned much
good at the mission school, marry Tah-ge-ah, and make people better. She
can weave blankets, make fine baskets, and keep house like a white girl."
 "She's all right," said Ted. "But, Kalitan, what is a potlatch?"

"Potlatch is a good-will feast," said his friend, "Very fine thing, but white men do not like.
Say Indian feasts are all bad. Why is it bad when an Indian gives away all his goods for others?
That is what a great potlatch is. When white men give us whiskey and it is drunk too much,
then it is very bad. But Tyee will not have that for Tanana's feast. We will drink only quass[8],
as my people made it before they learned evil drinks and fire-water, which make them crazy."

[Footnote 8: Quass is a native drink, harmless and acid, made with rye and water fermented.
The bad Indians mix it with sugar, flour, dried apples, and hops, and make a terribly intoxicating
drink.]

"I guess Tyee Klake was right when he said all men were alike," said Ted, sagely. "It seems
to me that there are good and bad ones in all countries. It's a pity you have had such bad
white ones here in Alaska, but I guess you have had good ones, too."

"Plenty good, plenty bad, Thlinkit men and Boston men," said Kalitan, "all same."

CHAPTER VII

TWILIGHT TALES AND TOTEMS

"Once a small girl child went by night to bring water. In the skies above she saw the Moon
shining brightly, pale and placid, and she put forth her tongue at it, which was an evil thing,
for the Moon is old, and a Thlinkit child should show respect for age. So the Moon would not
endure so rude a thing from a girl child, and it came down from the sky and took her thither.
She cried out in fear and caught at the long grass to keep herself from going up, but the Moon
was strong and took her with her water-bucket and her bunch of grass, and she never came back.
Her mother wept for her, but her father said: 'Cease. We have other girl children; she is now
wedded to the Moon; to him we need not give a potlatch.'

"You may see her still, if you will look at the Moon, there, grass in one hand, bucket in the
other, and when the new Moon tips to one side and the water spills from the clouds and it is
the months of rain, it is the bad Moon maiden tipping over her water-bucket upon the earth.
No Thlinkit child would dare ever to put her tongue forth at the Moon, for fear of a like fate
to that of Squiance, the Moon maiden."

Tanana's voice was soft and low and she looked very pretty as she sat in the moonlight at the
door of the hut and told Kalitan and Ted quaint old stories. Ted was delighted with her tales,
and begged for another and yet another, and Tanana told the quaint story of Kagamil.

"A mighty toyon[9] dwelt on the island of Kagamil. By name he was Kat-haya-koochat, and he
was of great strength and much to be feared. He had long had a death feud with people of the
next totem, but the bold warrior Yakaga, chieftain of the tribe, married the toyon's daughter,
and there was no more feud. Zampa was the son of Kat-haya-koochat, and his pride. He built
for this son a fine bidarka,[10] and the boy launched it on the sea. His father watched him
sail and called him to return, lest evil befall. But Zampa heard not his father's voice and
pursued diving birds,[11] and, lo! he was far from land and the dark fell. He sailed to the
nearest shore and beheld the village of Yakaga, where the people of his sister's husband made
him welcome, though Yakaga was not within his hut. There was feasting and merry-making, and,
according to their custom, he, the stranger, was given a chieftain's daughter to wife, and
her name was Kitt-a-youx; and Zampa loved her and she him, and he returned not home. But Kitt-a-youx's
father liked him not, and treated him with rudeness because of the old enmity with his Tyee
father, so Zampa said to Kitt-a-youx: 'Let us go hence. We cannot be happy here. Let us go
from your father, who is unfriendly to me, and seek the barrabora of my father, the mighty
chief, that happiness may come upon us,' and Kitt-a-youx said: 'What my lord says is well.'

[Footnote 9: Chieftain.]

[Footnote 10: Canoe.]

[Footnote 11: Ducks.]

"Then Zampa placed her in his canoe, and alone beneath the stars they sailed and it was well,
and Zampa's arm was strong at his paddle. But, lo! they heard another paddle, and one came
after them, and soon arrows flew about them, arrows swift and cruel, and one struck his paddle
from his hand and his canoe was overturned. The pursuer came and placed Kitt-a-youx in his
canoe, seeking, too, for Zampa, but, alas! Zampa was drowned. And when his pursuer dragged
his body to the surface, he gave a mighty cry, for, lo! it was his brother-in-law whom he had
pursued, for he was Yakaga. Then fearing the terrible rage of Zampa's father, he dared not
return with the body, so he left it with the overturned canoe in the kelp and weeds. Kitt-a-youx
he bore with him to his own island. There she was sad as the sea-gull's scream, for the lord
she loved was dead. And her father gave her to another toyon, who was cruel to her, and her
life was as a slave's, and she loathed her life until Zampa's child was born to her, and for
it she lived. Alas, it was a girl child and her husband hated it, and Kitt-a-youx saw nothing
for it but to be sold as a slave as was she herself. And she looked by day and by night at
the sea, and its cold, cold waves seemed warmer to her than the arms of men. 'With my girl
child I shall go hence,' she whispered to herself, 'and the Great Unknown Spirit will be kind.'

"So by night she stole away in a canoe and steered to sea, ere she knew where she was, reaching
the seaweeds where she had journeyed with her young husband. The morning broke, and she saw
the weeds and the kelp where her lover had gone from her sight, and, with a glad sigh, she
clasped Zampa's child to her breast and sank down among the weeds where he had died. So her
tired spirit was at rest, for a woman is happier who dies with him she loves.

"Now Zampa's father had found his boy's body and mourned over it, and buried it in a mighty
cave, the which he had once made for his furs and stores. With it he placed bows and arrows
and many valuables in respect for the dead. And Zampa's sister, going to his funeral feast,
fell upon a stone with her child, so that both were killed. Then broke the old chief's heart.
Beside her brother he laid her in the cave, and gave orders that he himself should be placed
there as well, when grief should have made way with him. Then he died of sorrow for his children,
and his people interred him in his burial cave, and with him they put much wealth and blankets
and weapons.

"When, therefore, the people of his tribe found the bodies of Kitt-a-youx and her child among
the kelp, having heard of her love for Zampa, they bore them to the same cave, and, wrapping
them in furs, they placed Kitt-a-youx beside her beloved husband, and in her burial she found
her home and felt the kindness of the Great Spirit. This, then, is the story of the burial
cave of Kagamil, and since that day no man dwelt upon the island, and it is known as the 'island
of the dead.'"

"I'd like to see it, I can tell you," said Ted. "Are there any burial caves around here?"

"The Thlinkits do not bury in caves," said Tanana. "We used to burn our dead, but often we
place them in totem-poles."

"I thought those great poles by your doors were totems," said Ted, puzzled.

"Yes," said the girl. "They are caste totems, and all who are of any rank have them. As we
belong to the Raven, or Bear, or Eagle clan, we have the carved poles to show our rank, but
the totem of the dead is quite different. It does not stand beside the door, but far away.
It is alone, as the soul of the dead in whose honour it is made. It is but little carved. 'But
what will you say, if I won't let it be sold?' cried David, at length losing all patience.

'Ah,
good sir,' said the tavern-keeper, 'you would not deprive a poor, struggling man like me of
this opening for getting a little ready money to enable me to lay
in a stock of beer.

As for that sign-painter, he is a drunken sot, who has left himself without as much as a stiver
to give his daughter, who ought to have been married a year ago.'

'Do
not believe him, sir,' cried David's brother-artist.

'Every one knows there is not a fonder father in the whole town; and more shame to me if I were
not, for never was there such a good daughter as my dear, pretty
Lizette.

I have no money to give her, to be sure, but she is betrothed to
an honest fellow, who is glad to get her, poor as she is.

He is a young Frenchman, a cabinet-maker, and no better workman in the whole city; and they are
to be married whenever he has anything saved.'

'A good child, and
a good workman, and only waiting for wherewithal to live!

This alters the matter entirely,' said David; 'and the young couple
shall have the picture.

We leave it to this gentleman's liberality to name the price he is
willing to give for it.'

'Illustrious artist,' said the Englishman,
'I rejoice in the decision you have come to: Solomon himself could
not have given a wiser one.

As for me, I have already offered a hundred guineas for the sign as it stands; but I will give
two hundred, if you will consent to inscribe on it the two words "Pierre David."'

The name was no sooner pronounced, than a cry of astonishment and
delight burst from all present; and the poor sign-painter, with tears
in his eyes, implored pardon for all his rudeness and presumption,
and poured out grateful thanks for the Master's kind intentions in
favour of the young couple.

By this time the news had reached the crowd without, and was received with repeated shouts,
and cries of 'Long live David!' 'Long live the prince of artists!'
But the cheers became almost deafening, when the pretty Lizette, having
heard the wonderful story of a sign having been painted that was to
hasten her marriage, and give her a dowry of 200 guineas, made her
appearance, and, without a moment's hesitation, threw her arms about
the neck of her benefactor, who returned her caresses most cordially;
declaring that, all things considered, he did not know any one who
had a better right to a kiss from the bride.

At this instant Talma, followed by Girodet and the collector, hurriedly
entered the tavern.

Not finding David at his house, and being told of his having left home very early, they became
uneasy lest some accident had befallen him, and set off in search of him.

'Thank Heaven, we have found him!' said Girodet.

'And very well employed, too, I declare,' cried Talma. 'If I could be sure of meeting such a
kind welcome from a pretty girl, I should not mind getting up early myself!'

'Bravo, bravo, my old friend!' said Girodet, as, after a warm embrace
from him, he turned to examine the picture: 'I never expected to hear
of your changing your style, and turning Flemish sign-painter.

But it is no shame for David to end as Rembrandt began.'

ADMIRAL
BLAKE.[1]

A good biography is ever welcome; and if it be the biography
of a good and a great man, the cordiality of the bienvenu is doubled.

Mr Prescott remarks,[2] that there is no kind of writing, having truth and instruction for its
main object, which, on the whole, is so interesting and popular as biography: its superiority,
in this point of view, to history, consisting in the fact, that the latter has to deal with
masses--with nations, which, like corporate societies, seem to have no soul, and whose chequered
vicissitudes may be contemplated rather with curiosity for the lessons they convey, than with personal
sympathy. Among contemporary biographers, Mr Hepworth Dixon has already established for himself
a name of some distinction by his popular lives of William Penn and John Howard; nor will his
credit suffer a decline in the instance of the memoir now before us--that of the gallant and single-minded
patriot, Robert Blake. Of this fine old English worthy, republican as he was, the Tory Hume
freely affirms, that never man, so zealous for a faction, was so
much respected and even esteemed by his opponents.

Mr Dixon has consulted several scarce works, of genuine though obsolete authority, and a large
mass of original documents and family papers, in preparing the present able and attractive memoir;
not omitting a careful examination of the squibs, satires, and broadsides of that time, in
his endeavour to trace, in forgotten nooks and corners, the anecdotes and details requisite,
as he says, to complete a character thus far chiefly known by a few heroic outlines. We propose
taking a brief survey of his life-history of the great admiral and general at sea--the 'Puritan
Sea-King,' as Mr Dixon more characteristically than accurately calls his hero. A sea-king he was,
every inch of him; but to dub him Puritan, is like giving up to party what was meant for British
mankind.

To many, the term suggests primarily a habit of speaking through the nose; and Blake had thundered
commands through too many a piping gale and battle blast for that.

Robert Blake was born at Bridgewater, in August 1599. His father, Humphrey Blake, was a merchant
trading with Spain--a man whose temper seems to have been too sanguine and adventurous for
the ordinary action of trade, finally involving him in difficulties which clouded his latter
days, and left his family in straitened circumstances: his name,
however, was held in general respect; and we find that he lived in
one of the best houses in Bridgewater, and twice filled the chair
of its chief magistrate.

The perils to which mercantile enterprise was then liable--the chance escapes and valorous
deeds which the successful adventurer had to tell his friends and
children on the dark winter nights--doubtless formed a part of the
food on which the imagination of young Blake, 'silent and thoughtful
from his childhood,' was fed in the 'old house at home.' At the Bridgewater
grammar-school, Robert received his early education, making tolerable
acquaintance with Latin and Greek, and acquiring a strong bias towards
a literary life.

This penchant was confirmed by his subsequent career at Oxford, where he matriculated at sixteen,
and where he strove hard but fruitlessly for scholarships and fellowships at different colleges. His
failure to obtain a Merton fellowship has been attributed to a crotchet
of the warden's, Sir Henry Savile, in favour of tall men: 'The young
Somersetshire student, thick-set, fair complexioned, and only five
feet six, fell below his standard of manly beauty;' and thus the Cavalier
warden, in denying this aspirant the means of cultivating literature
on a little university oatmeal, was turning back on the world one
who was fated to become a republican power of the age.

This shining light, instead of comfortably and obscurely merging in a petty constellation of Alma
Mater, was to become a bright particular star, and dwell apart. The avowed liberalism of Robert
may, however, have done more in reality to shock Sir Henry, than
his inability to add a cubit to his stature.

It is pleasant to know, that the 'admiral and general at sea' never outgrew a tenderness for
literature--his first-love, despite the rebuff of his advances. Even in the busiest turmoil
of a life teeming with accidents by flood and field, he made it a
point of pride not to forget his favourite classics.

Nor was it till after nine years' experience of college-life, and when his father was no longer
able to manage his res angusta vitæ, that Robert finally abandoned his long-cherished plans,
and retired with a sigh and last adieu from the banks of the Isis.

When he returned to Bridgewater, in time to close his father's eyes,
and superintend the arrangements of the family, he was already remarkable
for that 'iron will, that grave demeanour, that free and dauntless
spirit,' which so distinguished his after-course.

His tastes were simple, his manners somewhat bluntly austere; a refined dignity of countenance,
and a picturesque vigour of conversation, invested him with a social interest, to which his indignant
invectives against court corruptions gave distinctive character. To the Short Parliament he was sent
as member for his native town; and in 1645, was returned by Taunton to the Long Parliament.
At the dissolution of the former, which he regarded as a signal for action, he began to prepare
arms against the king; his being one of the first troops in the field, and engaged in almost
every action of importance in the western counties.

His superiority to the men about him lay in the 'marvellous fertility, energy, and comprehensiveness
of his military genius.' Prince Rupert alone, in the Royalist camp, could rival him as a 'partisan
soldier.' His first distinguished exploit was his defence of Prior's Hill fort, at the siege of Bristol--which
contrasts so remarkably with the pusillanimity of his chief, Colonel
Fiennes.

Next comes his yet more brilliant defence of Lyme--then a little fishing-town, with some 900
inhabitants, of which the defences were a dry ditch, a few hastily-formed
earth-works, and three small batteries, but which the Cavalier host
of Prince Maurice, trying storm, stratagem, blockade, day after day,
and week after week, failed to reduce or dishearten.

'At Oxford, where Charles then was, the affair was an inexplicable marvel and mystery: every
hour the court expected to hear that the "little vile fishing-town," as Clarendon contemptuously
calls it, had fallen, and that Maurice had marched away to enterprises of greater moment;
but every post brought word to the wondering council, that Colonel Blake still held out, and that
his spirited defence was rousing and rallying the dispersed adherents
of Parliament in those parts.' After the siege was raised, the Royalists
found that more men of gentle blood had fallen under Blake's fire
at Lyme, than in all the other sieges and skirmishes in the western
counties since the opening of the war.

The details of the siege are given with graphic effect by Mr Dixon, and are only surpassed in interest
by those connected with Blake's subsequent and yet more celebrated defence of Taunton, to which
the third chapter of this biography is devoted.

The hero's fame had become a spell in the west: it was seen that he rivalled Rupert in rapid and
brilliant execution, and excelled him in the caution and sagacity
of his plans.

He took Taunton--a place so important at that juncture, as standing on and controlling the great
western highway--in July 1644, within a week of Cromwell's defeat of Rupert at Marston Moor.
All the vigour of the Royalists was brought to bear on the captured town; Blake's defence of
which is justly characterised as abounding with deeds of individual heroism--exhibiting in its
master-mind a rare combination of civil and military genius. The spectacle of an unwalled town,
in an inland district, with no single advantage of site, surrounded by powerful castles and
garrisons, and invested by an enemy brave, watchful, numerous, and well provided with artillery,
successfully resisting storm, strait, and blockade for several months,
thus paralysing the king's power, and affording Cromwell time to remodel
the army, naturally arrested the attention of military writers at
that time; and French authors of this class bestowed on Taunton the
name of the modern Saguntum.

The rage of the Royalists at this prolonged resistance was extreme. Reckoning from the date
when Blake first seized the town, to that of Goring's final retreat, the defence lasted exactly
a year, and under circumstances of almost overwhelming difficulty
to the besieged party, who, in addition to the fatigue of nightly
watches, and the destruction of daily conflicts, suffered from terrible
scarcity of provisions.

'Not a day passed without a fire; sometimes eight or ten houses were burning at the same moment;
and in the midst of all the fear, horror, and confusion incident to such disasters, Blake and
his little garrison had to meet the storming-parties of an enemy
brave, exasperated, and ten times their own strength.

But every inch of ground was gallantly defended. A broad belt of ruined cottages and gardens
was gradually formed between the besiegers and the besieged; and on the heaps of broken walls
and burnt rafters, the obstinate contest was renewed from day to day.' At last relief arrived from
London; and Goring, in savage dudgeon, beat a retreat, notwithstanding the wild oath he had
registered, either to reduce that haughty town, or to lay his bones in its trenches.

Blake was now the observed of all observers; but, unlike most of his compeers, he abstained from using
his advantages for purposes of selfish or personal aggrandisement.

He kept aloof from the 'centre of intrigues,' and remained at his post, 'doing his duty humbly
and faithfully at a distance from Westminster; while other men, with less than half his claims,
were asking and obtaining the highest honours and rewards from a grateful and lavish country.'
Nor, indeed, did he at any time side with the ultras of his party,
but loudly disapproved of the policy of the regicides.

This, coupled with his influence, so greatly deserved and so deservedly great, made him an object
of jealousy with Cromwell and his party; and it was owing, perhaps,
to their anxiety to keep him removed from the home-sphere of action,
that the hero of Taunton was now appointed to the chief naval command.

Hitherto, and for years afterwards, no state, ancient or modern, as Macaulay points out, had
made a separation between the military and the naval service. Cimon and Lysander, Pompey and
Agrippa, had fought by sea as well as by land: at Flodden, the right
wing of the English was led by her admiral, and the French admiral
led the Huguenots at Jarnac, &c. Accordingly, Blake was summoned from
his pacific government at Taunton, to assume the post of 'General
and Admiral at Sea;' a title afterwards changed to 'General of the
Fleet.' Two others were associated with him in the command; but Blake
seems at least to have been recognised as primus inter pares.

The navy system was in deplorable need of reform; and a reformer it found in Robert Blake,
from the very day he became an admiral.

His care for the well-being of his men made him an object of their almost adoring attachment.
From first to last, he stood alone as England's model-seaman. 'Envy, hatred, and jealousy dogged
the steps of every other officer in the fleet; but of him, both then and afterwards, every man
spoke well.' The 'tremendous powers' intrusted to him by the Council
of State, he exercised with off-handed and masterly success--startling
politicians and officials of the ancien régime by his bold and open
tactics, and his contempt for tortuous bypaths in diplomacy.

His wondrous exploits were performed with extreme poverty of means. He was the first to repudiate
and disprove the supposed fundamental maxim in marine warfare, that
no ship could attack a castle, or other strong fortification, with
any hope of success.

The early part of his naval career was occupied in opposing and defeating the piratical performances
of Prince Rupert, which then constituted the support of the exiled
Stuarts, and which Mr Dixon refuses to interpret in such mild colours
as Warburton and others.

Blake's utmost vigilance and activity were required to put down this
extraordinary system of freebooting; and by the time that he had successively
overcome Rupert, and the minor but stubborn adventurers, Grenville
and Carteret, he was in request to conduct the formidable war with
Holland, and to cope with such veterans as Tromp, De Witt, De Ruyter,
&c. Of the various encounters in which he thus signalised himself,
his biographer gives most spirited descriptions, such as their length
alone deters us from quoting.

On one occasion only did Blake suffer a defeat; and this one is easily
explained by--first, Tromp's overwhelming superiority of force; secondly,
the extreme deficiency of men in the English fleet; and thirdly, the
cowardice or disaffection of several of Blake's captains at a critical
moment in the battle.

Notwithstanding this disaster, not a whisper was heard against the admiral either in the Council
of State or in the city; his offer to resign was flatteringly rejected; and he soon found,
that the 'misfortune which might have ruined another man, had given
him strength and influence in the country.' This disaster, in fact,
gave him power to effect reforms in the service, and to root out abuses
which had defied all his efforts in the day of his success.

He followed it up by the great battle of Portland, and other triumphant
engagements.

Then came his sweeping tours de force in the Mediterranean; in six months he established himself,
as Mr Dixon says, as a power in that great midland sea, from which his countrymen had been politically
excluded since the age of the Crusades--teaching nations, to which England's very name was
a strange sound, to respect its honours and its rights; chastising
the pirates of Barbary with unprecedented severity; making Italy's
petty princes feel the power of the northern Protestants; causing
the pope himself to tremble on his seven hills; and startling the
council-chambers of Venice and Constantinople with the distant echoes
of our guns.

And be it remembered, that England had then no Malta, Corfu, and Gibraltar as the bases of naval
operations in the Mediterranean: on the contrary, Blake found that in almost every gulf and island
of that sea--in Malta, Venice, Genoa, Leghorn, Algiers, Tunis, and
Marseilles--there existed a rival and an enemy; nor were there more
than three or four harbours in which he could obtain even bread for
love or money.

After this memorable cruise, he had to conduct the Spanish war--a
business quite to his mind; for though his highest renown had been
gained in his conflicts with the Dutch, he had secretly disliked such
encounters between two Protestant states; whereas, in the case of
Popish Spain, his soul leaped at the anticipation of battle--sympathising
as he did with the Puritan conviction, that Spain was the devil's
stronghold in Europe.

At this period, Blake was suffering from illness, and was sadly crippled in his naval equipments,
having to complain constantly of the neglect at home to remedy the exigencies of the service.
'Our ships,' he writes, 'extremely foul, winter drawing on, our victuals
expiring, all stores failing, our men falling sick through the badness
of drink, and eating their victuals boiled in salt water for two months'
space' (1655.) His own constitution was thoroughly undermined.

For nearly a year, remarks his biographer, 'he had never quitted
the "foul and defective" flag-ship.

 Then the Thlinkits grew and prospered, till darkness fell upon
the earth. A Thlinkit stole the sun and hid it in a box, but Yehl found it and set it so high
in the heavens that none could touch it. Then the Thlinkits grew and spread abroad. But a great
flood came, and all were swept away save two, who tossed long upon the flood on a raft of logs
until Yehl pitied, and carried them to Mt. Edgecomb, where they dwelt until the waters fell."

[Footnote 13: Yehl, embodied in the raven, is the Thlinkit Great Spirit]

"Old Kala-kash tells this story, and he says that one of these people, when very old, went
down through the crater of the mountain, and, given long life by Yehl, stays there always to
hold up the earth out of the water. But the other lives in the crater as the Thunder Bird,
Hahtla, whose wing-flap is the thunder and whose glance is the lightning. The osprey is his
totem, and his face glares in our blankets and totems."

"I've wondered what that fierce bird was," said Teddy, who was always quite carried away with
Kalitan's strange legends.

"Well, what else do we see on the way to Nome, father?"

"The most remarkable thing happening in the Bering Sea is the seal industry, but I do not think
we pass near enough to the islands to see any of that. You'd better run about and see the ship
now," and the boys needed no second permission.

It was not many days before they knew everybody on board, from captain to deck hands, and were
prime favourites with them all. Ted and Kalitan enjoyed every moment. There was always something
new to see or hear, and ere they reached their journey's end, they had heard all about seals
and sealing, although the famous Pribylov Islands were too far to the west of the vessel's
route for them to see them. They sighted the United States revenue cutter which plies about
the seal islands to keep off poachers, for no one is allowed to kill seals or to land on this
government reservation except from government vessels. The scent of the rookeries, where millions
of seals have been killed in the last hundred years, is noticed far out at sea, and often the
barking of the animals can be heard by passing vessels.

"Why is sealskin so valuable, father?" asked Ted.

"It has always been admired because it is so warm and soft," replied Mr. Strong. "All the ladies
fancy it, and it never seems to go out of fashion. There was a time, when the Pribylov Islands
were first discovered, that sealskins were so plentiful that they sold in Alaska for a dollar
apiece. Hunters killed so many, killing old and young that soon there were scarcely any left,
so a law was passed by the Russian government forbidding any killing for five years. Since
the Americans have owned Alaska they have protected the seals, allowing them to be killed only
at certain times, and only male seals from two to four years old are killed. The Indians are
always the killers, and are wonderfully swift and clever, never missing a blow and always killing
instantly, so that there is almost no suffering."

"How do they know where to find the seals?" asked Ted.

"For half the year the seals swim about the sea, but in May they return to their favourite
haunts. In these rookeries families of them herd on the rocks, the male staying at home with
his funny little black puppies, while the mother swims about seeking food. The seals are very
timid, and will rush into the water at the least strange noise. A story is told that the barking
of a little pet dog belonging to a Russian at one of the rookeries lost him a hundred thousand
dollars, for the seals took fright and scurried away before any one could say 'Jack Robinson!'"

"Rather an expensive pup!" commented Ted. "But what about the seals, daddy?"

"You seem to think I am an encyclopedia on the seal question," said his father. "There is not
much else to tell you."

"How can they manage always to kill the right ones?" demanded Ted.

"The gay bachelor seals herd together away from the rest and sleep at night on the rocks. Early
in the morning the Aleuts slip in between them and the herd and drive them slowly to the killing-ground,
where they are quickly killed and skinned and the skins taken to the salting-house. The Indians
use the flesh and blubber, and the climate is such that before another year the hollow bones
are lost in the grass and earth."

"What becomes of the skins after they are salted?"

"They are usually sent to London, where they are prepared for market. The work is all done
by hand, which is one reason that they are so expensive. They are first worked in saw-dust;
cleaned, scraped, washed, shaved, plucked, dyed with a hand-brush from eight to twelve times,
washed again and freed from the least speck of grease by a last bath in hot sawdust or sand."

"I don't wonder a sealskin coat costs so much," said Ted? "if they have got to go through all
that performance. I wish we could have seen the islands, but I'd hate to see the seals killed.
It doesn't seem like hunting just to knock them on the head. It's too much like the stock-yards
at home."

"Yes, but it's a satisfaction to know that it's done in the easiest possible way for the animals.

"What a lot you are learning way up here in Alaska, aren't you, son? To-morrow we'll be at
Nome, and then your head will be so stuffed with mines and mining that you will forget all
about everything else."

"I don't want to forget any of it," said Ted. "It's all bully."

CHAPTER X

IN THE GOLD COUNTRY

A low sandy beach, without a tree to break its level, rows of plain frame-houses, some tents
and wooden shanties scattered about, the surf breaking over the shore in splendid foam,--this
was Teddy's first impression of Nome. They had sailed over from St. Michael's to see the great
gold-fields, and both the boys were full of eagerness to be on land. It seemed, however, as
if their desires were not to be realized, for landing at Nome is a difficult matter.

Nome is on the south shore of that part of Alaska known as Seward Peninsula, and it has no
harbour. It is on the open seacoast and catches all the fierce storms that sweep northward
over Bering Sea. Generally seacoast towns are built in certain spots because there is a harbour,
but Nome was not really built, it "jes' growed," for, when gold was found there, the miners
sat down to gather the harvest, caring nothing about a harbour.

Ships cannot go within a mile of land, and passengers have to go ashore in small lighters.
Sometimes when they arrive they cannot go ashore at all, but have to wait several days, taking
refuge behind a small island ten miles away, lest they drag their anchors and be dashed to
pieces on the shore.

There had been a tremendous storm at Nome the day before Ted arrived, and landing was more
difficult than usual, but, impatient as the boys were, at last it seemed safe to venture, and
the party left the steamer to be put on a rough barge, flat-bottomed and stout, which was hauled
by cable to shore until it grounded on the sands. They were then put in a sort of wooden cage,
let down by chains from a huge wooden beam, and swung round in the air like the unloading cranes
of a great city, over the surf to a high platform on the land.

"Well, this is a new way to land," cried Ted, who had been rather quiet during the performance,
and his father thought a trifle frightened. "It's a sort of a balloon ascension, isn't it?"

"It must be rather hard for the miners, who have been waiting weeks for their mail, when the
boat can't land her bags at all," said Mr. Strong. "That sometimes happens. From November to
May, Nome is cut off from the world by snow and ice. The only news they receive is by the monthly
mail when it comes.

"Over at Kronstadt the Russians have ice-breaking boats which keep the Baltic clear enough
of ice for navigation, and plow their way through ice fourteen feet thick for two hundred miles.
The Nome miners are very anxious for the government to try this ice-boat service at Nome."

"Why did people settle here in such a forlorn place?" asked Ted, as they made their way to
the town, which they found anything but civilized. "I like the Indian houses on the island
better than this."

"Your island is more picturesque," said Mr. Strong, "but people came here for what they could get.

"In 1898 gold was discovered on Anvil Creek, which runs into Snake River, and this turned people's
eyes in the direction of Nome. Miners rushed here and set to work in the gulches inland, but
it was not till the summer of 1899 that gold was found on the beach. A soldier from the barracks--you
know this is part of a United States Military Reservation--found gold while digging a well
near the beach, and an old miner took out $1,200 worth in twenty days. Then a perfect frenzy
seized the people. They flocked to Nome from far and near; they camped on the beach in hundreds
and staked their claims. Between one and two thousand men were at work on the beach at one
time, yet so good-natured were they that no quarrels seem to have occurred. Doctors, lawyers,
barkeepers, and all dropped their business and went to-rocking, as they call beach-mining."

"Oh, dad, let's hurry and go and see it," cried Ted, as they hurried through their dinner at
the hotel. "I thought gold came out of deep mines like copper, and had to be melted out or
something, but this seems to be different. Do they just walk along the beach and pick it up?
I wish I could."

"Well, it's not quite so simple as that," said Mr. Strong, laughing. "We'll go and see, and
then you'll understand," and they went down the crooked streets to the sandy beach.

Men were standing about talking and laughing, others working hard. All manner of men were there
scattered over the tundra,[14] and Ted became interested in two who were working together in
silence.

[Footnote 14: The name given to the boggy soil of the beach.]

"What are they doing?" he asked his father. "I can't see how they expect to get anything worth
having out of this mess."

"Beach-mining is quite different from any other," said his father. "Let's watch those two men.
They have evidently staked a claim together, which means that nobody but these two can work
on the ground they have staked out, and that they must share all the gold they find. They came
here to prospect, and evidently found a block of ground which suited them. They then dug a
prospect hole down two to five feet until they struck 'bedrock,' which happens to be clay around
here. They passed through several layers of sand and gravel before reaching this, and these
were carefully examined to see how much gold they contained. Upon reaching a layer which seemed
to be a good one, the gravel on top was stripped off and thrown aside and the 'pay streak'
worked with the rocker."

"What is that?" asked Ted, who was all ears, while Kalitan was taking in everything with his
sharp black eyes.

"That arrangement that looks like a square pan on a saw-buck is the rocker. The rockers usually
have copper bottoms, and there is a great demand for sheet copper at Nome, but often there
is not enough of it, and the miners have been known to cover them with silver coins. That man
you are watching has silver dollars in his, about fifty, I should say. It seems extravagant,
doesn't it, but he'll take out many times that amount if he has good luck."

The man, who had glanced up at them, smiled at that and said:

"And, if I don't have luck, I'm broke, anyhow, so fifty or sixty plunks won't make much difference.
You going to be a miner, youngster?"

"Not this trip," said Ted, with a smile. "Say, I'd like to know how you get the gold out with
that."

"At first we used to put a blanket in the rocker, and wash the pay dirt on that. Our prospect
hole has water in it, and we can use it over and over. Some of the holes are dry, and there
the men have to pack their pay dirt down to the shore and use surf water for washing. Most
of our gold is so fine that the blanket didn't stop it, so now we use 'quick.' I reckon you'd
call it mercury, but we call it quick. You see, it saves time, and work-time up here is so
short, on account of winter setting in so early, that we have to save up our spare minutes
and not waste 'em on long words."

Ted grinned cheerfully and asked: "What do you do with the quick?" 

We agree. Once should be enough for the most grasping pedestrian.

* * *

"A Kensington lady," we read, "has just engaged a parlourmaid who
is only three feet seven inches in height." The shortage of servants
is becoming most marked.

"Sure we fry it in the frying-pan, and it's elegant pancakes it makes," said the man. "See
here," and he pulled from his pocket several flat masses that looked like pieces of yellow
sponge. "This is pure gold. All the quick has gone off, and this is the real stuff, just as
good as money. An ounce will buy sixteen dollars' worth of anything in Nome."

"It looks mighty pretty," said Ted. "Seems to me it's redder than any gold I ever saw."

"It is," said his father. "Nome beach gold is redder and brighter than any other Alaskan gold.
I guess I'll have to get you each a piece for a souvenir," and both boys were made happy by
the present of a quaintly shaped nugget, bought by Mr. Strong from the very miner who had mined
it, which of course added to its value.

"You're gathering quite a lot of souvenirs, Ted," said his father. "It's a great relief that
you have not asked me for anything alive yet. I have been expecting a modest request for a
Maiamute or a Husky pup, or perhaps a pet reindeer to take home, but so far you have been quite
moderate in your demands."

"Kalitan never asks for anything," said Ted. "I asked him once why it was, and he said Indian
boys never got what they asked for; that sometimes they had things given to them that they
hadn't asked for, but, if he asked the Tyee for anything, all he got was 'Good Indian get things
for himself,' and he had to go to work to get the thing he wanted. I guess it's a pretty good
plan, too, for I notice that I get just as much as I did when I used to tease you for things,"
Teddy added, sagely. "Wise boy," said his father. "You're certainly more agreeable to live
with. The next thing you are to have is a visit to an Esquimo village, and, if I can find some
of the Esquimo carvings, you shall have something to take home to mother. Kalitan, what would
you like to remember the Esquimos by?"

Kalitan smiled and replied, simply, "Mukluks."

"What are mukluks?" demanded Ted.

"Esquimo moccasins," said Mr. Strong. "Well, you shall both have a pair, and they are rather
pretty things, too, as the Esquimos make them."

CHAPTER XI

AFTERNOON TEA IN AN EGLU

The Esquimo village was reached across the tundra, and Teddy and Kalitan were much interested
in the queer houses. "And I know who he's laughing at," writes a railway traveller.

* * *

With reference to the Press controversy between Mr. H.G. WELLS and
Mr. HENRY ARTHUR JONES, we understand that they have decided to shake
hands and be enemies.

* * *

"In New Zealand," says a weekly paper, "there is a daisy which is often mistaken for a sheep by
the shepherds." This is the sort of statement that the Prohibitionist likes to make a note
of.

* * *

A statistician informs us that a man's body contains enough lime to whitewash a small room. It should
be pointed out however that it is illegal for a wife to break up
her husband for decorative purposes.

* * *

The Manchester Communist Party have decided to have nothing whatever
to do with Parliament.

We understand that the PREMIER has now decided to sell his St. Bernard dog.

* * *

"There are no very rich people in England," says a gossip-writer. We can only say we know a club porter
who recently stated that he had a cousin who knew a miner who ...
but we fear it was only gossip.

* * *

"It is possible for people to do quite well without a stomach," says a Parisian doctor. Judged
by the high prices, we know a grocer who seems to think along the same lines.

* * *
Special aeroplanes to carry fish from Holland to this country are
to run in the winter. The idea of keeping the fish long enough to
enable them to cross under their own power has been abandoned.

*
* *

An Ashford gardener has grown a cabbage which measures twelve
feet across. It is said to be uninhabited.

* * *

The Rules of Golf
Committee now suggest a standard ball for England and America. The
question of a standard long-distance expletive for foozlers is held
over.

* * *

A youth charged at a police-court in the South of London
with stealing five hundred cigars, valued at threepence each, admitted
that he had smoked twenty-six of them. We are glad to learn that no
further punishment was ordered.

* * *

The Waste Trade World states
that there is a great demand for rubbish. Editors, however, don't
seem to be moving with the times.

* * *

Off Folkestone, a few days
ago, a trawler captured a blue-nosed shark. Complaints about the temperature
of the sea have been very common among bathers this year.

* * *

"No
one has yet been successful in filming an actual murder," states a
Picture-goers' Journal. It certainly does seem a pity that our murderers
are so terribly self-conscious in the presence of a cinematograph
man.

* * *

The Daily Express states that Mrs. BAMBERGER has decided
not to appeal against her sentence. If that be so, this high-handed
decision will be bitterly resented by certain of the audience who
were in court during the trial and eagerly looked forward to the next
edition.

* * *

A Daily Mail reader writes to our contemporary to
say that he found forty-two toads in his garden last week.

"Where did you learn such English?" asked Mr. Strong of Alalik, wondering, too, where she learned
her pretty, modest ways, for Esquimo women are commonly free and easy.

"I was for two years at the Mission at Holy Cross," she said. "There I learned much that was
good. Then my mother died, and I came home."

She spoke simply, and Mr. Strong wondered what would be the fate of this sweet-faced girl.

"Did you learn to sew from the sisters?" asked Ted, who had been looking at the garments she
had made, in which the stitches, though made in skins and sewn with deer sinew, were as even
as though done with a machine.

"Oh, no," she said. "We learn that at home. When I was no larger than Zaksriner there, my mother
taught me to braid thread from deer and whale sinew, and we must sew very much in winter if
we have anything to sell when summer comes. It is very hard to get enough to live. Since the
Boston men come, our people waste the summer in idleness, so we have nothing stored for the
winter's food. Hundreds die and many sicknesses come upon us. In the village where my people
lived, in each house lay the dead of what the Boston men called measles, and there were not
left enough living to bury the dead. Only we escaped, and a Black Gown came from the Mission
to help, and he took me and Antisarlook, my brother, to the school. The rest came here, where
we live very well because there are in the summer, people who buy what we make in the winter."

"How do you get your skins so soft?" asked Ted, feeling the exquisite texture of a bag she
had just finished. It was a beautiful bit of work, a tobacco-pouch or "Tee-rum-i-ute," made
of reindeer skin, decorated with beads and the soft creamy fur of the ermine in its summer hue.

"We scrape it a very long time and pull and rub," she said. "Plenty of time for patience in
winter."

"Your hands are too small and slim. I shouldn't think you could do much with those stiff skins,"
said Teddy.

Alalik smiled at the compliment, and a little flush crept into the clear olive of her skin.
She was clean and neat, and the eglu, though close from being shut up, was neater than most
of the Esquimo houses. The bowl filled with seal oil, which served as fire and light, was unlighted,
and Alalik's father motioned to her and said something in Innuit, to which she smilingly replied:

"My father wishes you to eat with us," she said, and produced her flint bag. In this were some
wads of fibrous material used for wicks. Rolling a piece of this in wood ashes, she held it
between her thumb and a flint, struck her steel against the stone, and sparks flew out which
lighted the fibre so that it burst into flame. This was thrown into the bowl of oil, and she
deftly began preparing tea. She served it in cups of grass, and Ted thought he had never tasted
anything nicer than the cup of afternoon tea served in an eglu.

"Alalik, what were you singing as we came in?" asked Ted.

"A song my mother always sang to us," she replied. "It is called 'Ahmi,' and is an Esquimo
slumber song."

"Will you sing it now?" asked Mr. Strong, and she smiled in assent and sang the quaint, crooning
lullaby of her Esquimo mother--

"The wind blows over the Yukon. My husband hunts the deer on the Koyukun Mountains, Ahmi, Ahmi,
sleep, little one, wake not. Long since my husband departed. Why does he wait in the mountains?
Ahmi, Ahmi, sleep, little one, softly. Where is my own? Does he lie starving on the hillside?
Why does he linger? Comes he not soon, I will seek him among the mountains. Ahmi, Ahmi, sleep,
little one, sleep. The crow has come laughing. His beak is red, his eyes glisten, the false
one. 'Thanks for a good meal to Kuskokala the Shaman. On the sharp mountain quietly lies your
husband.' Ahmi, Ahmi, sleep, little one, wake not. 'Twenty deers' tongues tied to the pack
on his shoulders; Not a tongue in his mouth to call to his wife with, Wolves, foxes, and ravens
are fighting for morsels. Tough and hard are the sinews, not so the child in your bosom.' Ahmi,
Ahmi, sleep, little one, wake not. Over the mountains slowly staggers the hunter. Two bucks'
thighs on his shoulders with bladders of fat between them. Twenty deers' tongues in his belt.
Go, gather wood, old woman! Off flew the crow, liar, cheat, and deceiver! Wake, little sleeper,
and call to your father. He brings you back fat, marrow and venison fresh from the mountain.
Tired and worn, he has carved a toy of the deer's horn, While he was sitting and waiting long
for the deer on the hillside. Wake, and see the crow hiding himself from the arrow, Wake, little
one, wake, for here is your father."

Thanking Alalik for the quaint song, sung in a sweet, touching voice, they all took their departure,
laden with purchases and delighted with their visit. "But you must not think this is a fair
sample of Esquimo hut or Esquimo life," said Mr. Strong to the boys. "These are near enough
civilized to show the best side of their race, but theirs must be a terrible existence who
are inland or on islands where no one ever comes, and whose only idea of life is a constant
struggle for food."

"I think I would rather be an American," remarked Ted, while Kalitan said, briefly: "I like
Thlinkit."

CHAPTER XII

THE SPLENDOUR OF SAGHALIE TYEE

The tundra was greenish-brown in colour, and looked like a great meadow stretching from the
beach, like a new moon, gently upward to the cones of volcanic mountains far away. The ground,
frozen solid all the year, thaws out for a foot or two on the surface during the warm months,
and here and there were scattered wild flowers; spring beauties, purple primroses, yellow anemone,
and saxifrages bloomed in beauty, and wild honey-bees, gay bumblebees, and fat mosquitoes buzzed
and hummed everywhere.

Ted and Kalitan were going to see the reindeer farm at Port Clarence, and, as this was to be
their last jaunt in Alaska, they were determined to make the best of it. Next day they were
to take ship from Cape Prince of Wales and go straight to Sitka. Here Ted was to start for
home, and Mr. Strong was to leave Kalitan at the Mission School for a year's schooling, which,
to Kalitan's great delight, was to be a present to him from his American friends.

"Tell us about the reindeer farms, daddy. Have they always been here?" demanded Ted, as they
tramped over the tundra, covered with moss, grass, and flowers.

"No," said his father. "They are quite recent arrivals in Alaska. The Esquimos used to live
entirely upon the game they killed before the whites came. There were many walruses, which
they used for many things; whales, too, they could easily capture before the whalers drove
them north, and then they hunted the wild reindeer, until now there are scarcely any left.
There was little left for them to eat but small fish, for you see the whites had taken away
or destroyed their food supplies.

"One day, in 1891, an American vessel discovered an entire village of Esquimos starving, being
reduced to eating their dogs, and it was thought quite time that the government did something
for these people whose land they had bought. Finding that people of the same race in Siberia
were prosperous and healthy, they sent to investigate conditions, and found that the Siberian
Esquimos lived entirely by means of the reindeer. The government decided to start a reindeer
farm and see if it would not benefit the natives."

"How does it work?" asked Ted.

"Very well indeed," said his father. "At first about two hundred animals were brought over,
and they increased about fifty per cent, the first year. Everywhere in the arctic region the
tundra gives the reindeer the moss he lives on. It is never dry in summer because the frost
prevents any underground drainage, and even in winter the animals feed upon it and thrive.
There are, it is said, hundreds of thousands of square miles of reindeer moss in Alaska, and
reindeer stations have been established in many places, and, as the natives are the only ones
allowed to raise them, it seems as if this might be the way found to help the industrious Esquimos
to help themselves."

"But if it all belongs to the government, how can it help the natives?" asked Ted.

"Of course they have to be taught the business," said Mr. Strong. "The government brought over
some Lapps and Finlanders to care for the deer at first, and these took young Esquimos to train.
Each one serves five years as herder, having a certain number of deer set apart for him each
year, and at the end of his service goes into business for himself."

"Why, I think that's fine," cried Ted. "Oh, Daddy, what is that? It looks like a queer, tangled
up forest, all bare branches in the summer."

"That's a reindeer herd lying down for their noonday rest. What you see are their antlers.
How would you like to be in the midst of that forest of branches?" asked Mr. Strong.

"No, thank you," said Teddy, but Kalitan said:

"Reindeer very gentle; they will not hurt unless very much frightened."

"What queer-looking animals they are," said Ted, as they approached nearer. "A sort of a cross
between a deer and a cow."

"Perhaps they are more useful than handsome, but I think there is something picturesque about
them, especially when hitched to sleds and skimming over the frozen ground."

The farm at Teller was certainly an interesting spot. Teddy saw the deer fed and milked, the
Lapland women being experts in that line, and found the herders, in their quaint parkas tied
around the waist, and conical caps, scarcely less interesting than the deer. Two funny little
Lapp babies he took to ride on a large reindeer, which proceeding did not frighten the babies
half so much as did the white boy who put them on the deer. A reindeer was to them an everyday
occurrence, but a Boston boy was quite another matter.

Better than the reindeer, however, Teddy and Kalitan liked the draught dogs who hauled the
water at the station. A great cask on wheels was pulled by five magnificent dogs, beautiful
fellows with bright alert faces.

"They are the most faithful creatures in the world," said Mr. Strong, "devoted to their masters,
even though the masters are cruel to them. Reindeer can work all day without a mouthful to
eat, living on one meal at night of seven pounds of corn-meal mush, with a pound or so of dried
fish cooked into it. On long journeys they can live on dried fish and snow, and five dogs will
haul four hundred pounds thirty-five miles a day. They carry the United States mails all over
Alaska."

"I should think the dog would be worth more than the reindeer," said Ted.

"Many Alaskan travellers say he is by far the best for travelling, but he cannot feed himself
on the tundra, nor can he be eaten himself if necessary. The Jarvis expedition proved the value
of the reindeer," said Mr. Strong.

"What was that?" asked Ted.

"Some years ago a whale fleet was caught in the ice near Point Barrow, and in danger of starving
to death, and word of this was sent to the government. The President ordered the revenue cutter
Bear to go as far north as possible and send a relief party over the ice by sledge with provisions.
When the Bear could go no farther, her commander landed Lieutenant Jarvis, who was familiar
with the region, and a relief party. They were to seek the nearest reindeer station and drive
a reindeer herd to the relief of the starving people. The party reached Cape Nome and secured
some deer, and the rescue was made, but under such difficulties that it is one of the most
heroic stories of the age. These men drove four hundred reindeer over two thousand miles north
of the Arctic Circle, over frozen seas and snow-covered mountains, and found the starving sailors,
who ate the fresh reindeer meat, which lasted until the ice melted in the spring and set them
free." 

After two hours' hard fighting, he struck his flag; like a true French knight, he made a low
bow, kissed his sword affectionately, and delivered it to his conqueror.

Again: when Blake captured the Dutch herring-fleet off Bochness, consisting
of 600 boats, instead of destroying or appropriating them, he merely
took a tithe of the whole freight, in merciful consideration towards
the poor families whose entire capital and means of life it constituted.

       This 'characteristic act of clemency' was censured by many as Quixotic,
and worse.



"The splendour of Saghalie Tyee,"[16] said Kalitan, solemnly.

[Footnote 16: Way-up High Chief, i.e., God.]

"The Aurora Borealis," said Mr. Strong, "and very fortunate you are to see it. Indeed, Teddy,
you seem to have brought good luck, for everything has gone well this trip. Our faces are turned
homeward now, but we will have to come again next summer and bring mother and Judith."

"I'll be glad to get home to mother again," said Ted, then noting Kalitan's wistful face, "We'll
find you at Sitka and go home with you to the island," and he put his arm affectionately over
the Indian boy's shoulder. Kalitan pointed to the sky, whence the splendour was fading, and
a flock of birds was skimming southwards.

"From the sky fades the splendour of Saghalle Tyee," he said. "The summer is gone, the birds
fly southward. The light goes from me when my White Brother goes with the birds. Unless he
return with them, all is dark for Kalitan!"

THE END.

