In all active matters Columbus was what we call a lucky man.  It was luck that brought him
to Guanahani; and throughout his life this element of good luck continually helped him.  He
was lucky, that is to say, in his relation with inanimate things; but in his relations with
men he was almost as consistently unlucky.  First of all he was probably a bad judge of men.
His humble origin and his lack of education naturally made him distrustful.  He trusted people
whom he should have regarded with suspicion, and he was suspicious of those whom he ought to
have known he could trust.  If people pleased him, he elevated them with absurd rapidity to
stations far beyond their power to fill, and then wondered that they sometimes turned upon
him; if they committed crimes against him, he either sought to regain their favour by forgiving
them, or else dogged them with a nagging, sulky resentment, and expected every one else to
punish them also.  He could manage men if he were in the midst of them; there was something
winning as well as commanding about his actual presence, and those who were devoted to him
would have served him to the death.  But when he was not on the spot all his machineries and
affairs went to pieces; he had no true organising ability; no sooner did he take his hand off
any affair for which he was responsible than it immediately came to confusion.  All these defects
are to be attributed to his lack of education and knowledge of the world.  Mental discipline
is absolutely necessary for a man who would discipline others; and knowledge of the world is
essential for one who would successfully deal with men, and distinguish those whom he can from
those whom he cannot trust.  Defects of this nature, which sometimes seem like flaws in the
man's character, may be set down to this one disability--that he was not educated and was not
by habit a man of the world.

All his sins of misgovernment, then, may be condoned on the ground that governing is a science,
and that Columbus had never learned it.  What we do find, however, is that the inner light
that had led him across the seas never burned clearly for him again, and was never his guide
in the later part of his life.  Its radiance was quenched by the gleam of gold; for there is
no doubt that Columbus was a victim of that baleful influence which has caused so much misery
in this world.  He was greedy of gold for himself undoubtedly; but he was still more greedy
of it for Spain.  It was his ambition to be the means of filling the coffers of the Spanish
Sovereigns and so acquiring immense dignity and glory for himself.  He believed that gold was
in itself a very precious and estimable thing; he knew that masses and candles could be bought
for it, and very real spiritual privileges; and as he made blunder after blunder, and saw evil
after evil heaping itself on his record in the New World, he became the more eager and frantic
to acquire such a treasure of gold that it would wipe out the other evils of his administration.
And once involved in that circle, there was no help for him.

The man himself was a simple man; capable, when the whole of his various qualities were directed
upon one single thing, of that greatness which is the crown of simplicity.  Ambition was the
keynote of his life; not an unworthy keynote, by any means, if only the ambition be sound;
but one serious defect of Columbus's ambition was that it was retrospective rather than perspective.
He may have had, before he sailed from Palos, an ambition to be the discoverer of a New World;
but I do not think he had.  He believed there were islands or land to be discovered in the
West if only he pushed on far enough; and he was ambitious to find them and vindicate his belief.
Afterwards, when he had read a little more, and when he conceived the plan of pretending that
he had all along meant to discover the Indies and a new road to the East, he acted in accordance
with that pretence; he tried to make his acts appear retrospectively as though they had been
prompted by a design quite different from that by which they had really been prompted.  When
he found that his discovery was regarded as a great scientific feat, he made haste to pretend
that it had all along been meant as such, and was in fact the outcome of an elaborate scientific
theory.  In all this there is nothing for praise or admiration.  It indicates the presence
of moral disease; but fortunately it is functional rather than organic disease.  He was right
and sound at heart; but he spread his sails too readily to the great winds of popular favour,
and the result was instability to himself, and often danger of shipwreck to his soul.

The ultimate test of a man's character is how he behaves in certain circumstances when there
is no great audience to watch him, and when there is no sovereign close at hand with bounties
and rewards to offer. In a word, what matters most is a man's behaviour, not as an admiral,
or a discoverer, or a viceroy, or a courtier, but as a man.  In this respect Columbus's character
rings true.  If he was little on little occasions, he was also great on great occasions.  The
inner history of his fourth voyage, if we could but know it and could take all the circumstances
into account, would probably reveal a degree of heroic endurance that has never been surpassed
in the history of mankind.  Put him as a man face to face with a difficulty, with nothing but
his wits to devise with and his two hands to act with, and he is never found wanting.  And
that is the kind of man of whom discoverers are made.  The mere mathematician may work out
the facts with the greatest accuracy and prove the existence of land at a certain point; but
there is great danger that he may be knocked down by a club on his first landing on the beach,
and never bring home any news of his discovery.  The great courtier may do well for himself
and keep smooth and politic relations with kings; the great administrator may found a wonderful
colony; but it is the man with the wits and the hands, and some bigness of heart to tide him
over daunting passages, that wins through the first elementary risks of any great discovery.
Properly considered, Columbus's fame should rest simply on the answer to the single question,
"Did he discover new lands as he said he would?"  That was the greatest thing he could do,
and the fact that he failed to do a great many other things afterwards, failed the more conspicuously
because his attempts were so conspicuous, should have no effect on our estimate of his achievement.
The fame of it could no more be destroyed by himself than it can be destroyed by us.

True understanding of a man and estimate of his character can only be arrived at by methods
at once more comprehensive and more subtle than those commonly employed among men.  Everything
that he sees, does, and suffers has its influence on the moulding of his character; and he
must be considered in relation to his physical environment, no less than to his race and ancestry.
Christopher Columbus spent a great part of his active life on the sea; it was sea-life which
inspired him with his great Idea, it was by the conquest of the sea that he realised it; it
was on the sea that all his real triumphs over circumstance and his own weaker self were won.
The influences at work upon a man whose life is spent on the sea are as different from those
at work upon one who lives on the fields as the environment of a gannet is different from the
environment of a skylark: and yet how often do we really attempt to make due allowance for
this great factor and try to estimate the extent of its moulding influence?

To live within sound or sight of the sea is to be conscious of a voice or countenance that
holds you in unyielding bonds.  The voice, being continuous, creeps into the very pulses and
becomes part of the pervading sound or silence of a man's environment; and the face, although
it never regards him, holds him with its changes and occupies his mind with its everlasting
riddle.  Its profound inattention to man is part of its power over his imagination; for although
it is so absorbed and busy, and has regard for sun and stars and a melancholy frowning concentration
upon the foot of cliffs, it is never face to face with man: he can never come within the focus
of its great glancing vision.  It is somewhere beyond time and space that the mighty perspective
of those focal rays comes to its point; and they are so wide and eternal in their sweep that
we should find their end, could we but trace them, in a condition far different from that in
which our finite views and ethics have place.  In the man who lives much on the sea we always
find, if he be articulate, something of the dreamer and the mystic; that very condition of
mind, indeed, which we have traced in Columbus, which sometimes led him to such heights, and
sometimes brought him to such variance with the human code.

A face that will not look upon you can never give up its secret to you; and the face of the
sea is like the face of a picture or a statue round which you may circle, looking at it from
this point and from that, but whose regard is fixed on something beyond and invisible to you;
or it is like the face of a person well known to you in life, a face which you often see in
various surroundings, from different angles, now unconscious, now in animated and smiling intercourse
with some one else, but which never turns upon you the light of friendly knowledge and recognition;
in a word, it is unconscious of you, like all elemental things.  In the legend of the Creation
it is written that when God saw the gathering together of the waters which he called the Seas,
he saw that it was good; and he perhaps had the right to say so.  But the man who uses the
sea and whose life's pathway is laid on its unstable surface can hardly sum up his impressions
of it so simply as to say that it is good.  It is indeed to him neither good nor bad; it is
utterly beyond and outside all he knows or invents of good and bad, and can never have any
concern with his good or his bad.  It remains the pathway and territory of powers and mysteries,
thoughts and energies on a gigantic and elemental scale; and that is why the mind of man can
never grapple with the unconsciousness of the sea or his eye meet its eye.  Yet it is the mariner's
chief associate, whether as adversary or as ally; his attitude to things outside himself is
beyond all doubt influenced by his attitude towards it; and a true comprehension of the man
Columbus must include a recognition of this constant influence on him, and of whatever effect
lifelong association with so profound and mysterious an element may have had on his conduct
in the world of men.  Better than many documents as an aid to our understanding of him would
be intimate association with the sea, and prolonged contemplation of that face with which he
was so familiar.  We can never know the heart of it, but we can at least look upon the face,
turned from us though it is, upon which he looked.  Cloud shadows following a shimmer of sunlit
ripples; lines and runes traced on the surface of a blank calm; salt laughter of purple furrows
with the foam whipping off them; tides and eddies, whirls, overfalls, ripples, breakers, seas
mountains high-they are but movements and changing expressions on an eternal countenance that
once held his gaze and wonder, as it will always hold the gaze and wonder of those who follow
the sea.

