Christmas had passed,--and had passed uncomfortably enough at Popham Villa, in which retreat
neither of the three young ladies was at present very happy,--when Sir Thomas was invited by
Mr. Trigger to take further steps with reference to the petitions. It was thought necessary
that there should be a meeting in the conservative interest, and it was suggested that this
meeting should take place in Sir Thomas's chambers. Mr. Trigger in making the proposition seemed
to imply that a great favour was thereby conferred on Sir Thomas,--as that country is supposed
to be most honoured which is selected as the meeting-ground for plenipotentiaries when some
important international point requires to be settled. Sir Thomas could not see the arrangement
in that light, and would have shuffled out of the honour had it been possible. But it was not
possible. At this period of the year Mr. Griffenbottom had no house in town, and Mr. Trigger
explained that it was inexpedient that such meetings should take place at hotels. There was
no place so fitting as a lawyer's chambers. Sir Thomas, who regarded as a desecration the entrance
of one such man as Mr. Trigger into his private room, and who was particularly anxious not
to fall into any intimacy with Mr. Griffenbottom, was driven to consent, and at one o'clock
on the 29th, Stemm was forced to admit the deputation. The deputation from Percycross consisted
of Mr. Trigger, Mr. Spicer, and Mr. Pile; but with them came also the senior sitting member.
At first they were all very grave, and Sir Thomas asked them, indiscreetly, whether they would
take a glass of sherry. Pile and Spicer immediately acceded to this proposition, and sherry
was perhaps efficacious in bringing about speedy conversation.

"Well, Underwood," said Mr. Griffenbottom, "it seems that after all we are to have these d----
petitions." Sir Thomas lifted his left foot on his right knee, and nursed his leg,--but said
nothing. On one point he was resolved;--nothing on earth should induce him to call his colleague
Griffenbottom.

"No doubt about that, Mr. Griffenbottom," said Mr. Pile, "--that is, unless we can make Westmacott
right. T'other chap wouldn't be of much account."

"Mr. Pile, you're going a little too fast," said Trigger.

"No, I ain't," said Mr. Pile. But for the moment he allowed himself to be silenced.

"We don't like the looks of it at Percycross," said Mr. Spicer.

"And why don't we like the looks of it?" asked Sir Thomas.

"I don't know what your idea of pleasure is," said Mr. Griffenbottom, "but I don't take delight
in spending money for nothing. I have spent enough, I can tell you, and I don't mean to spend
much more. My seat was as safe as the Church."

"But they have petitioned against that as well as mine," said Sir Thomas.

"Yes;--they have. And now what's to be done?"

"I don't know whether Sir Thomas is willing to take the whole cost of the defence upon himself,"
said Mr. Trigger, pouring out for himself a second glass of sherry.

"No, I am not," said Sir Thomas. Whereupon there was a pause, during which Pile and Spicer
also took second glasses of sherry. "Why should I pay the cost of defending Mr. Griffenbottom's
seat?"

"Why should I pay it?" said Griffenbottom. "My seat was safe enough. The fact is, if money
was paid,--as to which I know nothing,--it was paid to get the second seat. Everybody knows
that. Why should any one have paid money for me? I was safe. I never have any difficulty; everybody
knows that. I could come in for Percycross twenty times running, without buying a vote. Isn't
that true, Trigger?"

"I believe you could, Mr. Griffenbottom."

"Of course I could. Look here, Underwood--"

"I beg your pardon for one moment, Mr. Griffenbottom," said Sir Thomas. "Will you tell me,
Mr. Trigger, whether votes were bought on my behalf?" Mr. Trigger smiled, and put his head
on one side, but made no answer. "I wish I might be allowed to hear the truth," continued Sir
Thomas. Whereupon Spicer grinned, and Mr. Pile looked as though he were about to be sick. How
was it that a set of gentlemen, who generally knew their business so well as did the political
leaders at Percycross, had got themselves into the same boat with a man silly enough to ask
such a question as that?

"I shan't spend money," said Griffenbottom; "it's out of the question. They can't touch me.
I've spent my money, and got my article. If others want the article, they must spend theirs."

Mr. Trigger thought it might be as well to change the subject for a moment, or, at any rate,
to pass on to another clause of the same bill. "I was very sorry, Sir Thomas," said he, "that
you wrote that letter to Mr. Givantake."

"I wrote no letter to Mr. Givantake. A man named Piper addressed me."

"Well, well, well; that's the same thing. It was Givantake, though of course he isn't going
to sign his name to everything. If you could just have written a line to your friend the Postmaster-General,
I really think we could have squared it all."

"I wouldn't have made a request so improper for all Percycross," said Sir Thomas.

"Patronage is open to everybody," suggested Mr. Griffenbottom.

"Those sort of favours are asked every day," said Trigger.

"We live in a free country," said Spicer.

"Givantake is a d---- scoundrel all the same," said Mr. Pile; "and as for his wife's Irish
cousin, I should be very sorry to leave my letters in his hands."

"It wouldn't have come off, Mr. Pile," said Trigger, "but the request might have been made.
If Sir Thomas will allow me to say as much, the request ought to have been made."

"I will allow nothing of the kind, Mr. Trigger," said Sir Thomas, with an assumption of personal
dignity which caused everyone in the room to alter his position in his chair. "I understand
these things are given by merit." Mr. Trigger smiled, and Mr. Griffenbottom laughed outright.
"At any rate, they ought to be, and in this office I believe they are." Mr. Griffenbottom,
who had had the bestowal of some local patronage, laughed again.

"The thing is over now, at any rate," said Mr. Trigger.

"I saw Givantake yesterday," said Spicer. "He won't stir a finger now."

"He never would have stirred a finger," said Mr. Pile; "and if he'd stirred both his fistesses,
he wouldn't have done a ha'porth of good. Givantake, indeed! He be blowed!" There was a species
of honesty about Mr. Pile which almost endeared him to Sir Thomas.

"Something must be settled," said Trigger.

"I thought you'd got a proposition to make," said Spicer.

"Well, Sir Thomas," began Mr. Trigger, as it were girding his loins for the task before him,
"we think that your seat wouldn't stand the brunt. We've been putting two and two together
and that's what we think." A very black cloud came over the brow of Sir Thomas Underwood, but
at the moment he said nothing. "Of course it can be defended. If you choose to fight the battle
you can defend it. It will cost about £1,500,--or perhaps a little more. That is, the two sides,
for both will have to be paid." Mr. Trigger paused again, but still Sir Thomas said not a word.
"Mr. Griffenbottom thinks that he should not be asked to take any part of this cost."

"Not a shilling," said Mr. Griffenbottom.

"Well," continued Mr. Trigger, "that being the case, of course we have got to see what will
be our best plan of action. I suppose, Sir Thomas, you are not altogether indifferent about
the money."

"By no means," said Sir Thomas.

"I don't know who is. Money is money all the world over."

"You may say that," put in Mr. Spicer.

"Just let me go on for a moment, Mr. Spicer, till I make this thing clear to Sir Thomas. That's
how we stand at present. It will cost us,--that is to say you,--about £1,500, and we should
do no good. I really don't think we should do any good. Here are these judges, and you know
that new brooms sweep clean. I suppose we may allow that there was a little money spent somewhere.
They do say now that a glass of beer would lose a seat."

Sir Thomas could not but remember all that he had said to prevent there being even a glass
of beer, and the way in which he had been treated by all the party in that matter, because
he had so endeavoured. But it was useless to refer to all that at the present moment. "It seems
to me," he said, "that if one seat be vacated, both must be vacated."

"It doesn't follow at all," said Mr. Griffenbottom.

"Allow me just for a moment longer," continued Trigger, who rose from his seat as he came to
the real gist of his speech. "A proposition has been made to us, Sir Thomas, and I am able
to say that it is one which may be trusted. Of course our chief anxiety is for the party. You
feel that, Sir Thomas, of course." Sir Thomas would not condescend to make any reply to this.
"Now the Liberals will be content with one seat. If we go on it will lead to disfranchising
the borough, and we none of us want that. It would be no satisfaction to you, Sir Thomas, to
be the means of robbing the borough of its privilege after all that the borough has done for you."

"Go on, Mr. Trigger," said Sir Thomas.

"The Liberals only want one seat. If you'll undertake to accept the Hundreds, the petition
will be withdrawn, and Mr. Westmacott will come forward again. In that case we shouldn't oppose.
Now, Sir Thomas, you know what the borough thinks will be the best course for all of us to pursue."

Sir Thomas did know. We may say that he had known for some minutes past. He had perceived what
was coming, and various recollections had floated across his mind. He especially remembered
that £50 for the poor old women which Mr. Trigger only a week since had recommended that he
should give,--and he remembered also that he had given it. He recollected the sum which he
had already paid for his election expenses, as to which Mr. Trigger had been very careful to
get the money before this new proposition was made. He remembered Mr. Pabsby and his cheque
for £20. He remembered his broken arm, and that fortnight of labour and infinite vexation in
the borough. He remembered all his hopes, and his girls' triumph. But he remembered also that
he had told himself a dozen times since his return that he wished that he might rid himself
altogether of Percycross and the seat in Parliament. Now a proposition that would have this
effect was made to him.

"Well, Sir Thomas, what do you think of it?" asked Mr. Trigger.

Sir Thomas required the passing of a few moments that he might think of it, and yet there was
a feeling strong at his heart telling him that it behoved him not even to seem to doubt. He
was a man not deficient in spirit when roused as he now was roused. He knew that he was being
ill used. From the first moment of his entering Percycross he had felt that the place was not
fit for him, that it required a method of canvassing of which he was not only ignorant, but
desirous to remain ignorant,--that at Percycross he would only be a catspaw in the hands of
other men. In adults it is most frequently met with in the humerus, the radius and ulna (Fig.
6), and the femur; in children in the bones of the leg and in the forearm.

In a radiogram the bones in the vicinity of the fracture, particularly the distal fragment,
cast a comparatively faint shadow, and there may even be a clear space between the fragments. When
the parts are exposed by operation, the bone is found to be soft and spongy and the ends of the
fragments are rarefied and atrophied; sometimes they are pointed, and occasionally absorption
has taken place to such an extent that a gap exists between the fragments. The bone is easily
penetrated by a bradawl, and if an attempt is made to apply plates,
the screws fail to bite. He could himself give evidence, the truth of which no judge in the land
would doubt, as to the purity of his own intentions, and as to the struggle to be pure which
he had made. And now they asked him to give way in order that Mr. Griffenbottom might keep
his seat!

He felt that he and poor Moggs had been fools together. At this moment there came upon him
a reflection that such men as he and Moggs were unable to open their mouths in such a borough
as Percycross without having their teeth picked out of their jaws. He remembered well poor
Moggs's legend, "Moggs, Purity, and the Rights of Labour;" and he remembered thinking at the
time that neither Moggs nor he should have come to Percycross. And now he was told of all that
the borough had done for him, and was requested to show his gratitude by giving up his seat,--in
order that Griffenbottom might still be a member of Parliament, and that Percycross might not
be disfranchised! Did he feel any gratitude to Percycross or any love to Mr. Griffenbottom?
In his heart he desired that Mr. Griffenbottom might be made to retire into private life, and
he knew that it would be well that the borough should be disfranchised.

These horrid men that sat around him,--how he hated them! He could get rid of them now, now
and for ever, by acceding to the proposition made to him. And he thought that in doing so he
could speak a few words which would be very agreeable to him in the speaking. And then all
that Mr. Trigger had said about the £1,500 had been doubtless true. If he defended his seat
money must be spent, and he did not know how far he might be able to compel Mr. Griffenbottom
to share the expense. He was not so rich but what he was bound to think of the money, for his
children's sake. And he did believe Mr. Trigger, when Mr. Trigger told him that the seat could
not be saved.

Yet he could not bring himself to let these men have their way with him. To have to confess
that he had been their tool went so much against the grain with him that anything seemed to
him to be preferable to that. The passage across his brain of all these thoughts had not required
many seconds, and his guests seemed to acknowledge by their silence that some little space
of time should be allowed to him. Mr. Pile was leaning forward on his stick with his eyes fixed
upon Sir Thomas's face. Mr. Spicer was amusing himself with a third glass of sherry. Mr. Griffenbottom
had assumed a look of absolute indifference, and was sitting with his eyes fixed upon the ceiling.
Mr. Trigger, with a pleasant smile on his face, was leaning back in his chair with his hands
in his trousers pockets. He had done his disagreeable job of work, and upon the whole he thought
that he had done it well.

"I shall do nothing of the kind," said Sir Thomas at last.

"You'll be wrong, Sir Thomas," said Mr. Trigger.

"You'll disfranchise the borough," said Mr. Spicer.

"You'll not be able to keep your seat," said Mr. Trigger.

"And there'll be all the money to pay," said Mr. Spicer.

"Sir Thomas don't mind that," said Mr. Griffenbottom.

"As for paying the money, I do mind it very much," said Sir Thomas. "As for disfranchising
the borough, I cannot say that I regard it in the least. As to your seat, Mr. Griffenbottom--"

"My seat is quite safe," said the senior member.

"As to your seat, which I am well aware must be jeopardised if mine be in jeopardy, it would
have been matter of more regret to me, had I experienced from you any similar sympathy for
myself. As it is, it seems that each of us is to do the best he can for himself, and I shall
do the best I can for myself. Good morning."

"What then do you mean to do?" said Mr. Trigger.

"On that matter I shall prefer to converse with my friends."

"You mean," said Mr. Trigger, "that you will put it into other hands."

"You have made a proposition to me, Mr. Trigger, and I have given you my answer. I have nothing
else to say. What steps I may take I do not even know at present."

"You will let us hear from you," said Mr. Trigger.

"I cannot say that I will."

"This comes of bringing a gentleman learned in the law down into the borough," said Mr. Griffenbottom.

"Gentlemen, I must ask you to leave me," said Sir Thomas, rising from his chair and ringing
the bell.

"Look here, Sir Thomas Underwood," said Mr. Griffenbottom. "This to me is a very important matter."

"And to me also," said Sir Thomas.

"I do not know anything about that. Like a good many others, you may like to have a seat in
Parliament, and may like to get it without any trouble and without any money. I have sat for
Percycross for many years, and have spent a treasure, and have worked myself off my legs. I
don't know that I care much for anything except for keeping my place in the House. The House
is everything to me,--meat and drink; employment and recreation; and I can tell you I'm not
going to lose my seat if I can help it. You came in for the second chance, Sir Thomas; and
a very good second chance it was if you'd just have allowed others who knew what they were
about to manage matters for you. That chance is over now, and according to all rules that ever
I heard of in such matters, you ought to surrender. Isn't that so, Mr. Trigger?"

"Certainly, Mr. Griffenbottom, according to my ideas," said Mr. Trigger.

"That's about it," said Mr. Spicer.

Sir Thomas was still standing. Indeed they were all standing now. "Mr. Griffenbottom," he said,
"I have nothing further that I can say at the present moment. To the offer made to me by Mr.
Trigger I at present positively decline to accede. I look upon that offer as unfriendly, and
can therefore only wish you a good morning."

"Unfriendly," said Mr. Griffenbottom with a sneer.

"Good-bye, Sir Thomas," said Mr. Pile, putting out his hand. Sir Thomas shook hands with Mr.
Pile cordially. "It's my opinion that he's right," said Mr. Pile. "I don't like his notions,
but I do like his pluck. Good-bye, Sir Thomas." Then Mr. Pile led the way out of the room,
and the others followed him.

"Oh!" said Stemm, as soon as he had shut the door behind their backs. "That's a deputation
from Percycross, is it, Sir Thomas? You were saying as how you didn't quite approve of the
Percycrossians." To this, however, Sir Thomas vouchsafed no reply.

CHAPTER XL.

WHAT SIR THOMAS THOUGHT ABOUT IT.

Sir Thomas Underwood had been engaged upon a very great piece of work ever since he had been
called to the Bar in the twenty-fifth year of his life. He had then devoted himself to the
writing of a life of Lord Verulam, and had been at it ever since. But as yet he had not written
a word. In early life, that is, up to his fortieth year, he had talked freely enough about
his opus magnum to those of his compeers with whom he had been intimate; but of late Bacon's
name had never been on his lips. Patience, at home, was aware of the name and nature of her
father's occupation, but Clarissa had not yet learned to know that he who had been the great
philosopher and little Lord Chancellor was not to be lightly mentioned. To Stemm the matter
had become so serious, that in speaking of books, papers, and documents he would have recourse
to any periphrasis rather than mention in his master's hearing the name of the fallen angel.
And yet Sir Thomas was always talking to himself about Sir Francis Bacon, and was always writing
his life.

