The Y.M.C.A. hut at Reherrey was a mile and a half behind the line. Briggs was the secretary.
His fine, erect carriage and soldierly bearing brought him many an unconscious salute from
the buck private. He was a Billy Sunday convert. "I have drunk enough rum to float a battleship"
was the way he told of his wild career. The boys at Reherrey loved and respected him. His Bible
class was the most enthusiastic I saw in France. The hag mumbled and scoffed, but the little girl named
Sue held her ground as she begged and then was able to shut the door
on the two people.

"Yay," Charlie yelled, before they both started doing what was necessary.


About half way through the talk a terrific explosion told us that Fritz was getting busy. Quietly
all candles were blown out. It was a military order. Aside from this not a man stirred. The
message went right on, punctuated by the exploding shells. There was no fear but an intense
interest in the great call of God to the duty of the hour. At the close the men pressed forward
to grip the speaker's hand, and as we walked out under the stars, a widow's only son acknowledged
that he had long been the victim of the drink curse and had broken his mother's heart. "I have
taken my last drink," he said; "I will write to my mother, but she cannot believe me. Won't
you write her too and tell her that her son has given himself to the Lord Jesus Christ?"

The most impressive thing to me about the religion of the soldiers was its wholesomeness. "Over
there" a man dared to be natural. The mask of pretense was torn off. Men were not hypocrites
in the face of death. They were free; and that freedom showed itself in their religion as well
as in their pleasures. The soldier whom I met in the front line trench with "I need Thee every
hour" printed across the front of his gas mask, was not considered a fanatic.

And when an American Bishop consented to share a Sunday night program with Elsie Janis, the
famous vaudeville actress, the great Bishop became suddenly greater in the estimation of Christian
and non-Christian alike, and the passionately expressive "Elsie" had a new and wholesome interpretation
put upon her fun and her jokes by the magic which that combination wrought.

My plea is for that type of Christianity, so pure as to be above reproach and question and
so genuinely human as to enjoy the wit and humor and even the frivolities of life, its Christliness
lifting its pleasures out of the mists of evil into which we have permitted the devil to drag
them, and placing them side by side with the more serious considerations of our life work. 

If God willed it,yes,said Aunt Betsey,who,how ever,was away from cheerful.
By this ,they pushed opened the door and the delicious smell of cooking
greeted them.

"Hi,Uncle Jake,what you think of this?What`s the meaning of all this?said
Aunt Betsey

 It fed them an abundance of plain but wholesome food. It gave them plenty of
hard exercise to convert that food into hard muscle. It demanded attention, so that a keen
mind directed a strong body. It provided the leisure hour with huts where the touch of home
suggested the writing of millions of home letters which otherwise would never have been written.
Concerts, lectures, reading rooms with books and magazines and games of all kinds were furnished
to all--free. Even something homemade to eat and drink, in addition to the regular canteen
supplies, which covered practically every legitimate desire of the men, could be purchased
at reasonable cost.

