    2358. The Dairy.--The object with which gentlemen keep cows is
    to procure milk unadulterated, and sweet butter, for themselves
    and families: in order to obtain this, however, great
    cleanliness is required, and as visitors, as well as the
    mistress of the house, sometimes visit the dairy, some efforts
    are usually made to render it ornamental and picturesque. The
    locality is usually fixed near to the house; it should neither
    be exposed to the fierce heat of the summer's sun nor to the
    equally unfavourable frosts of winter--it must be both sheltered
    and shaded. If it is a building apart from the house and other
    offices, the walls should be tolerably thick, and if hollow, the
    temperature will be more equable. The walls inside are usually
    covered with Dutch glazed tiles; the flooring also of glazed
    tiles set in asphalte, to resist water; and the ceiling, lath
    and plaster, or closely-jointed woodwork, painted. Its
    architecture will be a matter of fancy: it should have a
    northern aspect, and a thatched roof is considered most
    suitable, from the shade and shelter it affords; and it should
    contain at least two apartments, besides a cool place for
    storing away butter. One of the apartments, in which the milk is
    placed to deposit cream, or to ripen for churning, is usually
    surrounded by shelves of marble or slate, on which the
    milk-dishes rest; but it will be found a better plan to have a
    large square or round table of stone in the centre, with a
    water-tight ledge all round it, in which water may remain in hot
    weather, or, if some attempt at the picturesque is desired, a
    small fountain might occupy the centre, which would keep the
    apartment cool and fresh. Round this table the milk-dishes
    should be ranged; one shelf, or dresser, of slate or marble,
    being kept for the various occupations of the dairy-maid: it
    will be found a better plan than putting them on shelves and
    corners against the wall. There should be a funnel or ventilator
    in the ceiling, communicating with the open air, made to open
    and shut as required. By the beginning of
    
    
    the month of April, Ney, Kellermann, and Loison,
    
    with about 60,000 men, were in Old Castile and Leon, threatening
    the Portuguese frontier in that direction: as a preliminary
    
    
    step they had captured
    
    Astorga, and had made preparations for the siege of Ciudad
    Rodrigo. General Meigner was also
    
    at this time on the borders of Spanish Estramadura, menacing
    the frontier of Portugal on that side. Subsequently, as Napoleon
    was now engaged with his bride of Austria, he sent Massena to take the
command of the forces in Old Castile and Leon, which now assumed
the name of "The army of Portugal," thereby declaring its destination.

Massena arrived at Valladolid about the middle of May; and he not
only assumed the command over the forces of Ney, Kellermann, and Loison,
but also over those of Junot and Drouet, which had recently crossed
the Pyrenees from German.

    
    

    
    In the whole, Massena had a force of 80,000 men under arms for the field;
but the corps of Drouet, about 18,000 strong, and the forces of Régnier in
Estramadura did not immediately join him in his expedition into Portugal.
As it was, however, Massena had a force of about 62,000 men when
he first put himself in motion against Lord Wellington.
    

    
    
    
    Against these Wellington could only bring about 24,000 British troops, and
from 28,000 to 30,000 Portuguese regulars; a part of which he was compelled
to leave south of the Tagus, in order to guard against any sudden
movement of Soult's army of Andalusia.

    
    
    Moreover, Lord Wellington could only confidently
    
    rely on the British forces, as the Portuguese soldiers, whether regulars
or militia men, were as yet untried. On the other hand, Massena's soldiers
were skilled in the dreadful art of war, and flushed with recent
success; so that the odds against Wellington were alarmingly great.
The campaign commenced in earnest early in June, when Massena invested
Ciudad Rodrigo, which was defended by a Spanish garrison, but which
was almost within sight of the British advanced posts on the Azava.

    
The Spaniards made a brave defence; but on the 10th of July Massena made himself
master of the place by capitulation. Lord Wellington was taunted
by the French, by the Spaniards, and by many of his own officers,
for suffering the siege to proceed without making an attempt to relieve
the place.

His lordship, however, knew his business better than to take any false
step by a rash movement: his object and paramount duty was to defend
Portugal, and above all Lisbon

.
 The dasher consists of an axis of wood, to which
    the four beaters or fanners are attached; these fans are simply
    four pieces of elm strongly dovetailed together, forming an
    oblong square, with a space left open, two of the openings being
    left broader than the others; attached to an axle, they form an
    axis with four projecting blades; the axle fits into supports at
    the centre of the box; a handle is fitted to it, and the act of
    churning is done by turning the handle.

    2363. Such is the temple in which the dairy-maid presides: it
    should be removed both from stable and cowhouse, and larder; no
    animal smells should come near it, and the drainage should be
    perfect.

2364. The dairy-maid receives the milk from the cowkeeper, each pail being strained through
the hair-sieve into one of the milk-basins. This is left in the basins from twenty-four to
thirty-six hours in the summer, according to the weather; after which it is skimmed off by
means of the slicer, and poured into glazed earthenware jars to "turn" for churning. Some persons
prefer making up a separate churning for the milk of each cow; in which there is some advantage.
In this case the basins of each cow, for two days, would either be kept together or labelled.
As soon as emptied, the pails should be scalded and every particle of milk washed out, and
placed away in a dry place till next required; and all milk spilt on the floor, or on the table
or dresser, cleaned up with a cloth and hot water. Where very great attention is paid to the
dairy, the milk-coolers are used larger in winter, when it is desirable to retard the cooling
down and increase the creamy deposit, and smaller in summer, to hasten it; the temperature
required being from 55° to 50°, In summer it is sometimes expedient, in very sultry weather,
to keep the dairy fresh and cool by suspending cloths dipped in chloride of lime across the room.

2365. In some dairies it is usual to churn twice, and in others three times a week: the former
produces the best butter, the other the greatest quantity. With three cows, the produce should
be 27 to 30 quarts a day. The dairy-maid should churn every day when very hot, if they are
in full milk, and every second day in more temperate weather; besides supplying the milk and
cream required for a large establishment. The churning should always be done in the morning:
the dairy-maid will find it advantageous in being at work on churning mornings by five o'clock.
The operation occupies from 20 minutes to half an hour in summer, and considerably longer in
winter. A steady uniform motion is necessary to produce sweet butter; neither too quick nor
too slow. Rapid motion causes the cream to heave and swell, from too much air being forced
into it: the result is a tedious churning, and soft, bad-coloured butter.

2366. In spring and summer, when the cow has her natural food, no artificial colour is required;
but in winter, under stall-feeding, the colour is white and tallowy, and some persons prefer
a higher colour. This is communicated by mixing a little finely-powdered arnotto with the cream
before putting it into the churn; a still more, natural and delicate colour is communicated
by scraping a red carrot into a clean piece of linen cloth, dipping it into water, and squeezing
it into the cream.

2367. As soon as the butter comes, the milk is poured off, and the butter put into a shallow
wooden tub or bowl, full of pure spring water, in which it is washed and kneaded, pouring off
the water, and renewing it until it comes away perfectly free from milk. Imperfect washing
is the frequent cause of bad butter, and in nothing is the skill of the dairy-maid tested more
than in this process; moreover, it is one in which cleanliness of habits and person are most
necessary. In this operation we want the aid of Phyllis's neat, soft, and perfectly clean hand;
for no mechanical operation can so well squeeze out the sour particles of milk or curd.

2368. The operations of churning and butter-making over, the butter-milk is disposed of: usually,
in England, it goes to the pigs; but it is a, very wholesome beverage when fresh, and some
persons like it; the disposal, therefore, will rest with the mistress: the dairy-maid's duty
is to get rid of it. She must then scald with boiling water and scrub out every utensil she
has used; brush out the churn, clean out the cream-jars, which will probably require the use
of a little common soda to purify; wipe all dry, and place them in a position where the sun
can reach them for a short time, to sweeten them.

    2369. In Devonshire, celebrated for its dairy system, the milk
    is always scalded. The milk-pans, which are of tin, and contain
    from 10 to 12 quarts, after standing 10 or 12 hours, are placed
    on a hot plate of iron, over a stove, until the cream has formed
    on the surface, which is indicated by the air-bubbles rising
    through the milk, and producing blisters on the surface-coating
    of cream. This indicates its approach to the boiling point: and
    the vessel is now removed to cool. When sufficiently, that is,
    quite cool, the cream is skimmed off with the slice: it is now
    the clouted cream for which Devonshire is so famous. It is now
    placed in the churn, and churned until the butter comes, which
    it generally does in a much shorter time than by the other
    process. The butter so made contains more caseine than butter
    made in the usual way, but does not keep so long.

2370. It is a question frequently discussed, how far it is economical for families to keep
cows and make their own butter. It is calculated that a good cow costs from May 1 to October
1, when well but economically kept, £5. 16s. 6d; and from October 1 to April 30, £10. 2s. 6d.
During that time she should produce 227 lbs. of butter, besides the skimmed milk. Of course,
if new milk and cream are required, that will diminish the quantity of butter.

2371. Besides churning and keeping her dairy in order, the dairy-maid has charge of the whole
produce, handing it over to the cook, butler, or housemaid as required; and she will do well
to keep an exact account both of what she receives and how and when she disposes of it.

DUTIES OF THE LAUNDRY-MAID.

2372. The laundry-maid is charged with the duty of washing and getting-up the family linen,--a
situation of great importance where the washing is all done at home; but in large towns, where
there is little convenience for bleaching and drying, it is chiefly done by professional laundresses
and companies, who apply mechanical and chemical processes to the purpose. These processes,
however, are supposed to injure the fabric of the linen; and in many families the fine linen,
cottons, and muslins, are washed and got-up at home, even where the bulk of the washing is
given out. In country and suburban houses, where greater conveniences exist, washing at home
is more common,--in country places universal.

2373. The laundry establishment consists of a washing-house, an ironing and drying-room, and
sometimes a drying-closet heated by furnaces. The washing-house will probably be attached to
the kitchen; but it is better that it should be completely detached from it, and of one story,
with a funnel or shaft to carry off the steam. It will be of a size proportioned to the extent
of the washing to be done. A range of tubs, either round or oblong, opposite to, and sloping
towards, the light, narrower at the bottom than the top, for convenience in stooping over,
and fixed at a height suited to the convenience of the women using them; each tub having a
tap for hot and cold water, and another in the bottom, communicating with the drains, for drawing
off foul water. A boiler and furnace, proportioned in size to the wants of the family, should
also be fixed. The flooring should be York stone, laid on brick piers, with good drainage,
or asphalte, sloping gently towards a gutter connected with the drain.

2374. Adjoining the bleaching-house, a second room, about the same size, is required for ironing,
drying, and mangling. The contents of this room should comprise an ironing-board, opposite
to the light; a strong white deal table, about twelve or fourteen feet long, and about three
and a half feet broad, with drawers for ironing-blankets; a mangle in one corner, and clothes-horses
for drying and airing; cupboards for holding the various irons, starch, and other articles
used in ironing; a hot-plate built in the chimney, with furnace beneath it for heating the
irons; sometimes arranged with a flue for carrying the hot air round the room for drying. Where
this is the case, however, there should be a funnel in the ceiling for ventilation and carrying
off steam; but a better arrangement is to have a hot-air closet adjoining, heated by hot-air
pipes, and lined with iron, with proper arrangements for carrying off steam, and clothes-horses
on castors running in grooves, to run into it for drying purposes. This leaves the laundry
free from unwholesome vapour.

2375. The laundry-maid should commence her labours on Monday morning by a careful examination
of the articles committed to her care, and enter them in the washing-book; separating the white
linen and collars, sheets and body-linen, into one heap, fine muslins into another, coloured
cotton and linen fabrics into a third, woollens into a fourth, and the coarser kitchen and
other greasy cloths into a fifth. Every article should be examined for ink- or grease-spots,
or for fruit- or wine-stains. Ink-spots are removed by dipping the part into hot water, and
then spreading it smoothly on the hand or on the back of a spoon, pouring a few drops of oxalic
acid or salts of sorel over the ink-spot, rubbing and rinsing it in cold water till removed;
grease-spots, by rubbing over with yellow soap, and rinsing in hot water; fruit- and wine-spots,
by dipping in a solution of sal ammonia or spirits of wine, and rinsing.

2376. Every article having been examined and assorted, the sheets and fine linen should be
placed in one of the tubs and just covered with lukewarm water, in which a little soda has
been dissolved and mixed, and left there to soak till the morning. The greasy cloths and dirtier
things should be laid to soak in another tub, in a liquor composed of 1/2 lb. of unslaked lime
to every 6 quarts of water which has been boiled for two hours, then left to settle, and strained
off when clear. Each article should be rinsed in this liquor to wet it thoroughly, and left
to soak till the morning, just covered by it when the things are pressed together. Coppers
and boilers should now be filled, and the fires laid ready to light.

2377. Early on the following morning the fires should be lighted, and as soon as hot water
can be procured, washing commenced; the sheets and body-linen being wanted to whiten in the
morning, should be taken first; each article being removed in succession from the lye in which
it has been soaking, rinsed, rubbed, and wrung, and laid aside until the tub is empty, when
the foul water is drawn off. The tub should be again filled with luke-warm water, about 80°,
in which the articles should again be plunged, and each gone over carefully with soap, and
rubbed. Novices in the art sometimes rub the linen against the skin; more experienced washerwomen
rub one linen surface against the other, which saves their hands, and enables them to continue
their labour much longer, besides economizing time, two parts being thus cleaned at once.

2378. After this first washing, the linen should be put into a second water as hot as the hand
can bear, and again rubbed over in every part, examining every part for spots not yet moved,
which require to be again soaped over and rubbed till thoroughly clean; then rinsed and wrung,
the larger and stronger articles by two of the women; the smaller and more delicate articles
requiring gentler treatment.

2379. In order to remove every particle of soap, and produce a good colour, they should now
be placed, and boiled for about an hour and a half in the copper, in which soda, in the proportion
of a teaspoonful to every two gallons of water, has been dissolved. Some very careful laundresses
put the linen into a canvas bag to protect it from the scum and the sides of the copper. When
taken out, it should again be rinsed, first in clean hot water, and then in abundance of cold
water slightly tinged with fig-blue, and again wrung dry. It should now be removed from the
washing-house and hung up to dry or spread out to bleach, if there are conveniences for it;
and the earlier in the day this is done, the clearer and whiter will be the linen.

2380. Coloured muslins, cottons, and linens, require a milder treatment; any application of
soda will discharge the colour, and soaking all night, even in pure water, deteriorates the
more delicate tints. When ready for washing, if not too dirty, they should be put into cold
water and washed very speedily, using the common yellow soap, which should be rinsed off immediately.
One article should be washed at a time, and rinsed out immediately before any others are wetted.
When washed thoroughly, they should be rinsed in succession in soft water, in which common
salt has been dissolved, in the proportion of a handful to three or four gallons, and afterwards
wrung gently, as soon as rinsed, with as little twisting as possible, and then hung out to
dry. Delicate-coloured articles should not be exposed to the sun, but dried in the shade, using
clean lines and wooden pegs.

2381. Woollen articles are liable to shrink, unless the flannel has been well shrunk before
making up. This liability is increased where very hot water is used: cold water would thus
be the best to wash woollens in; but, as this would not remove the dirt, lukewarm water, about
85°, and yellow soap, are recommended. When thoroughly washed in this, they require a good
deal of rinsing in cold water, to remove the soap.

2382. Greasy cloths, which have soaked all night in the liquid described, should be now washed
out with soap-and-water as hot as the hands can bear, first in one water, and rinsed out in
a second; and afterwards boiled for two hours in water in which a little soda is dissolved.
When taken out, they should be rinsed in cold water, and laid out or hung up to dry.

2383. Silk handkerchiefs require to be washed alone. When they contain snuff, they should be
soaked by themselves in lukewarm water two or three hours; they should be rinsed out and put
to soak with the others in cold water for an hour or two; then washed in lukewarm water, being
soaped as they are washed. If this does not remove all stains, they should be washed a second
time in similar water, and, when finished, rinsed in soft water in which a handful of common
salt has been dissolved. In washing stuff or woollen dresses, the band at the waist and the
lining at the bottom should be removed, and wherever it is gathered into folds; and, in furniture,
the hems and gatherings. A black silk dress, if very dirty, must be washed; but, if only soiled,
soaking for four-and-twenty hours will do; if old and rusty, a pint of common spirits should
be mixed with each gallon of water, which is an improvement under any circumstances. Whether
soaked or washed, it should be hung up to drain, and dried without wringing.

2384. Satin and silk ribbons, both white and coloured, may be cleaned in the same manner.

2385. Silks, when washed, should be dried in the shade, on a linen-horse, taking care that
they are kept smooth and unwrinkled. If black or blue, they will be improved if laid again
on the table, when dry, and sponged with gin, or whiskey, or other white spirit.

2386. The operations should be concluded by rinsing the tubs, cleaning the coppers, scrubbing
the floors of the washing-house, and restoring everything to order and cleanliness.

2387. Thursday and Friday, in a laundry in full employ, are usually devoted to mangling, starching,
and ironing.

2388. Linen, cotton, and other fabrics, after being washed and dried, are made smooth and glossy
by mangling and by ironing. The mangling process, which is simply passing them between rollers
subjected to a very considerable pressure, produced by weight, is confined to sheets, towels,
table-linen, and similar articles, which are without folds or plaits. Ironing is necessary
to smooth body-linen, and made-up articles of delicate texture or gathered into folds. The
mangle is too well known to need description.

    2389. Ironing.--The irons consist of the common flat-iron,
    which is of different sizes, varying from 4 to 10 inches in
    length, triangular in form, and from 2-1/2 to 4-1/2 inches in
    width at the broad end; the oval iron, which is used for more
    delicate articles; and the box-iron, which is hollow, and heated
    by a red-hot iron inserted into the box. The Italian iron is a
    hollow tube, smooth on the outside, and raised on a slender
    pedestal with a footstalk. Into the hollow cylinder a red-hot
    iron is pushed, which heats it; and the smooth outside of the
    latter is used, on which articles such as frills, and plaited
    articles, are drawn. Crimping- and gauffering-machines are used
    for a kind of plaiting where much regularity is required, the
    articles being passed through two iron rollers fluted so as to
    represent the kind of plait or fold required.

2390. Starching is a process by which stiffness is communicated to certain parts of linen,
as the collar and front of shirts, by dipping them in a paste made of starch boiled in water,
mixed with a little gum Arabic, where extra stiffness is required.

TO MAKE STARCH.

2391. INGREDIENTS.--Allow 1/2 pint of cold water and 1 quart of boiling water to every 2 tablespoonfuls
of starch. 

The progress made in improving the land was very slow for the first
fifteen years, but thereafter went on rapidly, being aided by the
shelter derived from the growth of the plantations; and the whole
has now become fair land, bearing annually crops of oats, barley,
peas, potatoes, and turnips.

In spring 1838, exactly forty years from the time of putting down
the plantation, I sold four acres of larch and fir (average growth)
standing therein, for L.220, which, with the value of reserved trees
and average amount per acre of thinnings sold previously, gave a return
of L.67 per acre."--Vol. i, p. 367.

We are satisfied that in localities with which we are ourselves acquainted,
there are tens of thousand of acres which, by the simple protection of
sheltering plantations, would soon be made to exhibit an equal improvement
with either the moor of Methven, or the lands upon Shotley Fell, which
are also referred to in the work before us.

At a time when such strenuous endeavours are making to introduce and
extend a more efficient drainage among our clay lands, the more simple
amelioration of our cold uplands by judicious plantations, ought
neither to be lost sight of, nor by those who address themselves to
the landlords and cultivators, be passed by without especial and frequent
notice.

Did space permit, we could have wished to extract a paragraph or two upon the
mode of planting hedges, and forming ditches, for the purpose of
proving to our readers that Mr. Stephens is as complete a hedger and
ditcher, as we have seen him to be cunning as a drover and a cattle
surgeon.

But we must refer the reader to the passages in pp. 376 and 379. Strict cleanliness
with all the ironing utensils must be observed, as, if this is not the case, not the most expert
ironer will be able to make her things look clear and free from smears, &c. After wiping down
her ironing table, the laundry-maid should place a coarse cloth on it, and over that the ironing-blanket,
with her stand and iron-rubber; and having ascertained that her irons are quite clean and of
the right heat, she proceeds with her work.

2394. It is a good plan to try the heat of the iron on a coarse cloth or apron before ironing
anything fine: there is then no danger of scorching. For ironing fine things, such as collars,
cuffs, muslins, and laces, there is nothing so clean and nice to use as the box-iron; the bottom
being bright, and never placed near the fire, it is always perfectly clean; it should, however,
be kept in a dry place, for fear of its rusting. Gauffering-tongs or irons must be placed in
a clear fire for a minute, then withdrawn, wiped with a coarse rubber, and the heat of them
tried on a piece of paper, as, unless great care is taken, these will very soon scorch.

2395. The skirts of muslin dresses should be ironed on a skirt-board covered with flannel,
and the fronts of shirts on a smaller board, also covered with flannel; this board being placed
between the back and front.

2396. After things are mangled, they should also be ironed in the folds and gathers; dinner-napkins
smoothed over, as also table-cloths, pillow-cases, and sometimes sheets. The bands of flannel
petticoats, and shoulder-straps to flannel waistcoats, must also undergo the same process.

UPPER AND UNDER NURSEMAIDS.

2397. The nursery is of great importance in every family, and in families of distinction, where
there are several young children, it is an establishment kept apart from the rest of the family,
under the charge of an upper nurse, assisted by under nursery-maids proportioned to the work
to be done. The responsible duties of upper nursemaid commence with the weaning of the child:
it must now be separated from the mother or wet-nurse, at least for a time, and the cares of
the nursemaid, which have hitherto been only occasionally put in requisition, are now to be
entirely devoted to the infant. She washes, dresses, and feeds it; walks out with it, and regulates
all its little wants; and, even at this early age, many good qualities are required to do so
in a satisfactory manner. Patience and good temper are indispensable qualities; truthfulness,
purity of manners, minute cleanliness, and docility and obedience, almost equally so. She ought
also to be acquainted with the art of ironing and trimming little caps, and be handy with her
needle.

    2398. There is a considerable art in carrying an infant
    comfortably for itself and for the nursemaid. If she carry it
    always seated upright on her arm, and presses it too closely
    against her chest, the stomach of the child is apt to get
    compressed, and the back fatigued. For her own comfort, a good
    nurse will frequently vary this position, by changing from one
    arm to the other, and sometimes by laying it across both,
    raising the head a little. When teaching it to walk, and guiding
    it by the hand, she should change the hand from time to time, so
    as to avoid raising one shoulder higher than the other. This is
    the only way in which a child should be taught to walk;
    leading-strings and other foolish inventions, which force an
    infant to make efforts, with its shoulders and head forward,
    before it knows how to use its limbs, will only render it
    feeble, and retard its progress.

    2399. Most children have some bad habit, of which they must be
    broken; but this is never accomplished by harshness without
    developing worse evils: kindness, perseverance, and patience in
    the nurse, are here of the utmost importance. When
    finger-sucking is one of these habits, the fingers are sometimes
    rubbed with bitter aloes, or some equally disagreeable
    substance. Others have dirty habits, which are only to be
    changed by patience, perseverance, and, above all, by regularity
    in the nurse. She should never be permitted to inflict
    punishment on these occasions, or, indeed, on any occasion. But,
    if punishment is to be avoided, it is still more necessary that
    all kinds of indulgences and flattery be equally forbidden.
    Yielding to all the whims of a child,--picking up its toys when
    thrown away in mere wantonness, would be intolerable. A child
    should never be led to think others inferior to it, to beat a
    dog, or even the stone against which it falls, as some children
    are taught to do by silly nurses. Neither should the nurse
    affect or show alarm at any of the little accidents which must
    inevitably happen: if it falls, treat it as a trifle; otherwise
    she encourages a spirit of cowardice and timidity. But she will
    take care that such accidents are not of frequent occurrence, or
    the result of neglect. 

    Trek under General Walter Kitchener.

April
    
    13th till September 2nd, 1901.

    
    
    Lydenburg, Secoconi's
    
    country, Middleburg, Swazi Border, Bethel, Springs, Middleburg, Bothas
Berg, and country north of the railway line.

1006 miles in 141 days, including all halts.

On the evening of January 1st the Regiment embarked on the s.s. Armenian,
and was followed by the 2nd battalion Gordon Highlanders, who embarked
on January 2nd.

    
    

On January 3rd the ship conveying the two regiments sailed for Bombay,
which port was reached on January 18th.

Lord Northcote, the Governor of Bombay, received the two regiments
on disembarkation and addressed them, congratulating them on their
good work in South Africa.

The Devons entrained the same evening for Shahjehanpur in the United
Provinces. If properly checked in
    time, evil propensities may be eradicated; but this should not
    extend to anything but serious defects; otherwise, the intuitive
    perceptions which all children possess will construe the act
    into "spying" and "informing," which should never be resorted to
    in the case of children, nor, indeed, in any case.

2402. Such are the cares which devolve upon the nursemaid, and it is her duty to fulfil them
personally. In large establishments she will have assistants proportioned to the number of
children of which she has the care. The under nursemaid lights the fires, sweeps, scours, and
dusts the rooms, and makes the beds; empties slops, and carries up water; brings up and removes
the nursery meals; washes and dresses all the children, except the infant, and assists in mending.
Where there is a nursery girl to assist, she does the rougher part of the cleaning; and all
take their meals in the nursery together, after the children of the family have done.

2403. In smaller families, where there is only one nursemaid kept, she is assisted by the housemaid,
or servant-of-all-work, who will do the rougher part of the work, and carry up the nursery
meals. In such circumstances she will be more immediately under the eye of her mistress, who
will probably relieve her from some of the cares of the infant. In higher families, the upper
nurse is usually permitted to sup or dine occasionally at the housekeeper's table by way of
relaxation, when the children are all well, and her subordinates trustworthy.

2404. Where the nurse has the entire charge of the nursery, and the mother is too much occupied
to do more than pay a daily visit to it, it is desirable that she be a person of observation,
and possess some acquaintance with the diseases incident to childhood, as also with such simple
remedies as may be useful before a medical attendant can be procured, or where such attendance
is not considered necessary. All these little ailments are preceded by symptoms so minute as
to be only perceptible to close observation; such as twitching of the brows, restless sleep,
grinding the gums, and, in some inflammatory diseases, even to the child abstaining from crying,
from fear of the increased pain produced by the movement. Dentition, or cutting the teeth,
is attended with many of these symptoms. Measles, thrush, scarlatina, croup, hooping-cough,
and other childish complaints, are all preceded by well-known symptoms, which may be alleviated
and rendered less virulent by simple remedies instantaneously applied.

2405. Dentition is usually the first serious trouble, bringing many other disorders in its
train. The symptoms are most perceptible to the mother: the child sucks feebly, and with gums
hot, inflamed, and swollen. In this case, relief is yielded by rubbing them from time to time
with a little of Mrs. Johnson's soothing syrup, a valuable and perfectly safe medicine. Selfish
and thoughtless nurses, and mothers too, sometimes give cordials and sleeping-draughts, whose
effects are too well known.

2406. Convulsion Fits sometimes follow the feverish restlessness produced by these causes;
in which case a hot bath should be administered without delay, and the lower parts of the body
rubbed, the bath being as hot as it can be without scalding the tender skin; at the same time,
the doctor should be sent for immediately, for no nurse should administer medicine in this
case, unless the fits have been repeated and the doctor has left directions with her how to act.

2407. Croup is one of the most alarming diseases of childhood; it is accompanied with a hoarse,
croaking, ringing cough, and comes on very suddenly, and most so in strong, robust children.
A very hot bath should be instantly administered, followed by an emetic, either in the form
of tartar-emetic, croup-powder, or a teaspoonful of ipecacuanha, wrapping the body warmly up
in flannel after the bath. The slightest delay in administering the bath, or the emetic, may
be fatal; hence, the importance of nurses about very young children being acquainted with the
symptoms.

2408. Hooping-Cough is generally preceded by the moaning noise during sleep, which even adults
threatened with the disorder cannot avoid: it is followed by violent fits of coughing, which
little can be done to relieve. A child attacked by this disorder should be kept as much as
possible in the fresh, pure air, but out of draughts, and kept warm, and supplied with plenty
of nourishing food. Many fatal diseases flow from this scourge of childhood, and a change to
purer air, if possible, should follow convalescence.

2409. Worms are the torment of some children: the symptoms are, an unnatural craving for food,
even after a full meal; costiveness, suddenly followed by the reverse; fetid breath, a livid
circle under the eyes, enlarged abdomen, and picking the nose; for which the remedies must
be prescribed by the doctor.

2410. Measles and Scarlatina much resemble each other in their early stages: headache, restlessness,
and fretfulness are the symptoms of both. Again, a most serious peril has just been disclosed in the publication
of the Motu Proprio Papal Decree, under which the bringing by a Roman
Catholic layman of a clergyman of his Church into any civil or criminal
procedure in a court of law, whether as defendant or witness, without
the sanction previously ob tamed of his bishop, involves to that layman
the extreme penalty of excommunication.

The same penalty appears to be incurred ipso facto by any Roman Catholic
Member of Parliament who takes part in passing, and by every executive
officer of the Government who takes part in promulgating, a law or
decree which is held to invade the liberty or rights of the Church
of Rome.

This is a matter of supreme importance in our civil life.

2412. In all cases, cleanliness, fresh air, clean utensils, and frequent washing of the person,
both of nurse and children, are even more necessary in the nursery than in either drawing-room
or sick-room, inasmuch as the delicate organs of childhood are more susceptible of injury from
smells and vapours than adults.

2413. It may not be out of place if we conclude this brief notice of the duties of a nursemaid,
by an extract from Florence Nightingale's admirable "Notes on Nursing." Referring to children,
she says:--

    2414. "They are much more susceptible than grown people to all
    noxious influences. They are affected by the same things, but
    much more quickly and seriously; by want of fresh air, of proper
    warmth; want of cleanliness in house, clothes, bedding, or body;
    by improper food, want of punctuality, by dulness, by want of
    light, by too much or too little covering in bed or when up."
    And all this in health; and then she quotes a passage from a
    lecture on sudden deaths in infancy, to show the importance of
    careful nursing of children:--"In the great majority of
    instances, when death suddenly befalls the infant or young
    child, it is an accident; it is not a necessary, inevitable
    result of any disease. Describe cartilage
    
    and bone, and compare
    
    them with one another.

10.

Give an account of the amoeba,
and compare it with a typical tissue cell in a metazoon (e.g., the
rabbit).

11. Give a general account of connective tissue. What is tendon?

12.


    2415. Persons moving in the beat society will see, after
    perusing Miss Nightingale's book, that this "foul air," "want of
    light," "too much or too little clothing," and improper food, is
    not confined to Crown Street or St. Giles's; that Belgravia and
    the squares have their north room, where the rays of the sun
    never reach. "A wooden bedstead, two or three mattresses piled
    up to above the height of the table, a vallance attached to the
    frame,--nothing but a miracle could ever thoroughly dry or air
    such a bed and bedding,"--is the ordinary bed of a private
    house, than which nothing can be more unwholesome. "Don't treat
    your children like sick," she sums up; "don't dose them with
    tea. Let them eat meat and drink milk, or half a glass of light
    beer. Give them fresh, light, sunny, and open rooms, cool
    bedrooms, plenty of outdoor exercise, facing even the cold, and
    wind, and weather, in sufficiently warm clothes, and with
    sufficient exercise, plenty of amusements and play; more
    liberty, and less schooling, and cramming, and training; more
    attention to food and less to physic."

DUTIES OF THE SICK-NURSE.

