 Married quarters for some of the non-commissioned officers are
     provided, but not for privates. American barracks are interesting,
     as providing for perhaps a higher class of recruit than usual;
     they are well designed and superior finish internally is given. The
     barracks are arranged usually on the separate block system,
     and centre round a post-exchange or soldiers' club, which
     is a combined recreation establishment, gymnasium and sergeants'
     mess, with bath-house attached. Canteens for the sale of liquor were
     abolished in 1901.

See
     
     The Barrack Synopsis (1905); The Handbook of Design and Construction of
     Military Buildings (1905); The Army Regulations, India, vol. xii.

     (E. N. S.)

BARRANDE, JOACHIM (1799-1883), Austrian geologist and
palaeontologist, was born at Saugues, Haute Loire, on the 11th of
August 1799, and educated in the École Polytechnique at Paris.

Although he had received the training of an engineer, his first appointment was that of tutor to
the duc de Bordeaux (afterwards known as the comte de Chambord), grandson of Charles X., and
when the king abdicated in 1830, Barrande accompanied the royal exiles
to England and Scotland, and afterwards to Prague. Settling in that
city in 1831, he became occupied in engineering works, and his attention
was then attracted to the fossils from the Lower Palaeozoic rocks of Bohemia.
The publication in 1839 of Murchison's Silurian System incited Barrande
to carry on systematic researches on the equivalent strata in Bohemia.


A recent space medicine symposium heard this theory advanced by a prominent medical scholar:

     Attractive, indeed, for the space traveler would be the choice of
     hibernating during long periods when there was nothing he had to
     do. With the increase of speeds and the lowering of metabolism,
     consideration of flights running several hundred or even thousands
     of years cannot be offhandedly dismissed as mere fantasy. During
     prolonged flights of many months or years there will be very little
     to see and that of negligible interest. The most practical way of
     dealing with the problem might well be to have the pilot sleep 23
     of the 24 hours.[62]

Lowering the body temperature would be one way of inducing the necessary deep sleep. 

1. That thou shouldst not here looke to find any exact, accurate Treatise, since this discourse
was but the fruit of some lighter studies, and those too hudled up in a short time, being first
thought of and finished in the space of some few weekes, and therefore
you cannot in reason expect, that it should be so polished, as perhaps,
the subject would require, or the leisure of the Author might have
done it.

2. To remember that I promise onely probable arguments for the proofe of this opinion, and therefore
you must not looke that every consequence should be of an undeniable
dependance, or that the truth of each argument should be measured
by its necessity.

I grant that some Astronomicall appearances may possibly be solved otherwise then here they are.
But the thing I aime at is this, that probably they may so be solved, as I have here set them downe:
Which, if it be granted (as I thinke it must) then I doubt not, but
the indifferent reader will find some satisfaction in the maine thing
that is to be proved.

Many ancient Philosophers of the better note, have formerly defended
this assertion, which I have here laid downe, and it were to be wished,
that some of us would more apply our endeavours unto the examination of
these old opinions, which though they have for a long time lien neglected
by others, yet in them may you finde many truths well worthy your
paines and observation.

Tis a false conceit, for us to thinke, that amongst the ancient variety and search of opinions,
the best hath still prevailed. Time (saith the learned Verulam) seemes to be of the nature of a
river or streame, which carrieth downe to us that which is light, or blowne up, but sinketh
that which is weighty and solid.

It is my desire that by the occasion of this discourse, I may raise up some more active spirit
to a search after other hidden and unknowne truthes.

Since it must needes be a great impediment unto the growth of sciences, for men still so to
plod on upon beaten principles, as to be afraid of entertaining any
thing that may seeme to contradict them.

An unwillingnesse to take such things into examination, is one of those
errours of learning in these times observed by the judicious Verulam.
Questionlesse there are many secret truths, which the ancients have
passed over, that are yet left to make some of our age famous for
their discovery.

If by this occasion I may provoke any reader to an attempt of this
nature, I shall then thinke my selfe happy, and this work successefull.

Farewell.

[Decoration]

The

     First Proposition,
     
     by way of Preface.
     
     
     That the strangenesse of this opinion is no sufficient reason
     why it should be rejected, because other certaine truths have beene formerly
     esteemed ridiculous, and great absurdities entertayned by common
consent.
     

There is an earnestnesse and hungering after novelty, which doth still adhere unto all our natures,
and it is part of that primative image, that wide extent and infinite capacity at first created in the
heart of man, for this since its depravation in Adam perceiving it
selfe altogether emptied of any good doth now catch after every new
thing, conceiving that possibly it may finde satisfaction among some
of its fellow creatures.

But our enemy the divell (who strives still to pervert our gifts,
and beate us with our owne weapons) hath so contriv’d it, that any
truth doth now seeme distastefull for that very reason, for which
errour is entertain’d--Novelty, for let but some upstart heresie be
set abroach, and presently there are some out of a curious humour;
others, as if they watched an occasion of singularity, will take it
up for canonicall, and make it part of their creede and profession;
whereas solitary truth cannot any where finde so ready entertainement;
but the same Novelty which is esteemed the commendation of errour
and makes that acceptable, is counted the fault of truth, and causes
that to bee rejected.

How did the incredulous World gaze at Columbus when hee promised to discover another part of the
earth, and he could not for a long time by his confidence, or arguments, induce any of the
Christian Princes, either to assent unto his opinion, or goe to the
charges of an experiment. One publication has editorialized:

     We have received a surprising number of letters from young people
     who actually want to know how and where they can get started in a
     career in astronautics. These, for the most part, are high school
     students--and, evidently, they couldn't get the information they
     wanted from their own school. * * * Isn't the age of space yet
     important enough for all the high schools to sponsor interest in
     our space programs and to point out the need for a constant flow of
     young brains?[70]

The answer undoubtedly is that such grassroots demand will bring about increased academic curricula
in astronautics in direct proportion to its magnitude.

Meanwhile, the availability of work for persons with a background in space-related subjects
can be gaged to some extent by observing the variety of personnel requirements on major space
exploration projects.

A single American firm, for example, uses 49 different professional specialists in its work
for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and in its space work for the Department
of Defense.[71] Multiplied by the thousands of companies which are doing similar work, the
list gives an idea of the astronautic demand confronting the Nation's educational institutions:

  Acoustician
  Aerodynamicist
  Aeronautical engineer
  Agricultural engineer
  Astrodynamicist
  Astronomer
  Astrophysicist
  Biochemist
  Biophysicist
  Ceramics specialist
  Chemist
  Computer specialist
  Crystallographer
  Development engineer
  Doctor of medicine
  Electrical engineer
  Electronic engineer
  Experimental physicist
  Flight engineer
  Gyroscopics specialist
  Hydraulic engineer
  Information theory analyst
  Inorganic chemist
  Logical designer
  Magnetic device engineer
  Mathematician
  Mechanical applications engineer
  Mechanical engineer
  Mechanisms specialist
  Medical electronic engineer
  Metallurgical engineer
  Methods engineer
  Nuclear physicist
  Oceanographer
  Organic chemist
  Physical chemist
  Pneumatic engineer
  Process engineer
  Production engineer
  Project engineer
  Psychologist
  Reliability engineer
  Sociologist
  Solid state physicist
  Structural engineer
  System analyst
  Theoretical physicist
  Thermodynamicist
  Transducer engineer

FOOTNOTES:

[50] 25 supra. See also address to the American Bankers Association, Oct. 28, 1958.

[51] Space Business Daily, June 17, 1960.

[52] Feldman, George J., cited in a letter to the House Committee on Science and Astronautics,
Apr. 29, 1960.

[53] From Michelson, Edward J., "How Missile-Space Spending Enriches the Peacetime Economy,"
Missiles and Rockets, Sept. 14, 1959, pp. 13-17.

[54] Tischer, R. G., "A Search for the Spaceman's Food," Space Journal, December 1959, p. 46.

[55] Kraar, Louis, Wall Street Journal, May 4, 1960.

[56] 7 supra.

[57] Release No. 38-60, Air Research and Development Command, May 2, 1960.

[58] Lear, John, "Where Does Rain Begin?" New Scientist, Mar. 24, 1960, p. 724.

[59] "Wind and Soil," New Scientist, May 26, 1960, p. 1327.

[60] Wexler, Dr. Harry. Press conference conducted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
Apr. 22, 1960. 

It is a far cry from the days when games were introduced here by the
Mission.

Then the people's lives were so drab, and they had little idea of
the sporting qualities which every Englishman values so highly.

In those early days if in a game of football one side kicked a goal,
they had to wait till the other had done the same before the game
could proceed, or the play would have been turned into a battle.

Now everything in trousers in the place can be seen of an evening out on the harbour ice kicking
a ball about.

The harbour is our very roomy athletic field.

Twenty-two teams had entered for the dog race, and the start, when
the whole number were ranged up in the line, was pandemonium unloosed.
The dogs were barking out threatenings and slaughter to the teams
next them, their masters were shouting unheeded words of command, the
crowd were cheering their favourites, and altogether you would never
have guessed from the racket and confusion that you were north of
the Roaring Forties.

The last event on the sports programme was a scramble for coloured
candies by all the children of the village.

Our flock from the Home participated. The proceeding was as unhygienic
as it was alluring, and our surprise was great when a universally
healthy household greeted the morrow morn.

When I heard the amount the poor folk had raised for charity out of their meagre pittance, I felt
reproached.

It is a consistent fact here that the people give and do more than their
means justify, and it must involve a hard pinch for them in some other
quarter.

Coming from the sale at ten at night I looked for our "Yoho" in passing the churchyard, but was
unrewarded, though some of the harbour people assured me in the morning that they had seen it plainly.
Can there be anything in the current belief that the men of the sea
are more psychic than we case-hardened products of civilization, or
is it merely superstition?

  There is a story here of a man
  called Gaulton, which is vouched
  for by all the older men who can recall
  the incident. It seems
  that in Savage Cove this old George Gaulton lived till he was ninety.

He died on December 4, 1883.

On the 16th he appeared in the flesh to a former acquaintance at Port au Choix, fifty miles from the
spot at which he had died. This man Shenicks gives the following account of the curious visitation:

"I
was in the woods cutting timber for a day and a half. During the whole of that time I was sure
I heard footsteps near me in the snow, although I could see nothing. On the evening of the second
day, in consequence of heavy rain, I returned home early. I knew my cattle had plenty of food,
but something forced me to go to the hay-pook. While there, in a few
moments I stood face to face with old George Gaulton. I was not frightened.
We stood in the rain and talked for some time.

In the course of the conversation the old man gave me a message for
his eldest son, and begged me to deliver it to him myself before the
end of March.

Immediately afterwards he disappeared, and then I was terribly afraid."

A few weeks later Shenicks went all the way to Savage Cove and delivered the message given to him
in so strange a fashion.

A word of apology and I close. In an early letter to you I recall judging harshly a concoction called "brewis."
Experience here has taught me that our own delicacies meet with a
similar fate at the hands of my present fellow countrymen.

I offered Carmen on her arrival a cup of cocoa for Sunday supper.

After one sniff, biddable and polite child though she was, I saw
her surreptitiously pour the "hemlock cup" out of the open window
behind her.

May 23 New ways to produce food, new materials for better shelter,
new stimuli for education--all of these are coming from our space program. As for the matter
of adequate living room, space research may result in ways to permit an easy and efficient
scattering of the population without hurting its mobility. This might result from the development
of small subsidiary types of craft, or "gocarts," originally designed for local exploration
on other planets. Such craft, whether they operated by air cushion, nuclear energy, gravitational
force, power cell, or whatever, conceivably would permit Earth's population to spread out without
the need for expensive new roads--which, by the way, take millions of acres of land out of
productive use.

A development of this sort, together with new power sources to replace the fossil fuels on
which factory, home, and vehicle now depend, might also all but eliminate the growing smog
and air-pollution blight.

Water shortage

A direct result of the population increase, multiplied by the many new uses for which water
is being used in home appliances, etc., and plus the greatly increased demand for standard
uses such as indoor plumbing, irrigation, and factory processing, is the likelihood that water
shortage will be high on the list of future problems. Ways to conserve and reuse water, together
with economical desalting of sea water, will be essential in the decades ahead. Space research
may provide part of the answer here, too. (See New Water Sources and Uses, sec. III.)

Soil erosion

The Russian steppes of Kazakhstan are providing the world with a great contemporary dust bowl,
reminiscent of the middle 1930's when dust from the Great Plains stretched from Texas to Saskatchewan. Altogether these
works cost him almost £10,000 and he wrote a lot of small papers as well. Fortunately all of this
hard work resulted in him receiving the Wollaston medal from the Geological Society in London in 1855
in gratitude for his contribution to the field.

