The others were decidedly of De Beauxchamps's opinion, and it was enthusiastically resolved
that a vessel of this kind should be begun at once.

"If we don't need it for a flood," said De Beauxchamps, "we can employ it for a pleasure vessel
to visit the wonders of the deep. We will then make a reality of that marvelous dream of our
countryman of old, that prince of dreamers, Jules Verne."

"Let's name it for him!" cried one.

"Admirable! Charming!" they all exclaimed. "Vive le 'Jules Verne'!"

Within two days, but without the knowledge of the public, the keel of the submersible Jules
Verne was laid. But we shall hear of that remarkable craft again.

While animated, and in some cases violent, discussions were taking place in the learned circles
of Europe, and a few were making ready in such manner as they deemed most effective for possible
contingencies, waves of panic swept over the remainder of the Old World. There were yet hundreds
of millions in Africa and Asia to whom the advantages of scientific instruction had not extended,
but who, while still more or less under the dominion of ignorance and superstition, were in
touch with the news of the whole planet.

The rumor that a wise man in America had discovered that the world was to be drowned was not
long in reaching the most remote recesses of the African forests and of the boundless steppes
of the greater continent, and, however it might be ridiculed or received with skeptical smiles
in the strongholds of civilization, it met with ready belief in less enlightened minds.

Then, the three "signs"--the first great heat, the onslaught of storm and lightning, and the
Noche Triste, the great darkness--had been world-wide in their effects, and each had heightened
the terror caused by its predecessor. Moreover, in the less enlightened parts of the world
the reassurances of the astronomers and others did not penetrate at all, or, if they did, had
no effect, for not only does bad news run while good news walks, but it talks faster.

It will be recalled that one of the most disquieting incidents in America, immediately preceding
the catastrophal rising of the oceans, was the melting of the Arctic snows and ice-fields,
with consequent inundations in the north. This stage in the progress of the coming disaster
was accentuated in Europe by the existence of the vast glaciers of the Alps. The Rocky Mountains,
in their middle course, had relatively little snow and almost no true glaciers, and consequently
there were no scenes of this kind in the United States comparable with those that occurred
in the heart of Europe.

After the alarm caused by the great darkness in September had died out, and the long spell
of continuous clear skies began, the summer resorts of Switzerland were crowded as they had
seldom been. People were driven there by the heat, for one thing; and then, owing to the early
melting of the winter's deposit of snow, the Alps presented themselves in a new aspect.

Mountain-climbers found it easy to make ascents upon peaks which had always hitherto presented
great difficulties on account of the vast snow-fields, seamed with dangerous crevasses, which
hung upon their flanks. These were now so far removed that it was practicable for amateur climbers
to go where always before only trained Alpinists, accompanied by the most experienced guides,
dared to venture.

But as the autumn days ran on and new snows fell, the deep-seated glaciers began to dissolve,
and masses of ice that had lain for untold centuries in the mighty laps of the mountains, projecting
frozen noses into the valleys, came tumbling down, partly in the form of torrents of water
and partly in roaring avalanches.

The great Aletsch glacier was turned into a river that swept down into the valley of the Rhone,
carrying everything before it. The glaciers at the head of the Rhone added their contribution.
The whole of the Bernese Oberland seemed to have suddenly been dissolved like a huge mass of
sugar candy, and on the north the valley of Interlaken was inundated, while the lakes of Thun
and Brientz were lost in an inland sea which rapidly spread over all the lower lands between
the Alps and the Swiss Jura.

Farther east the Rhine, swollen by the continual descent of the glacier water, burst its banks,
and broadened out until Strasburg lay under water with the finger of its ancient cathedral
helplessly pointing skyward out of the midst of the flood. All the ancient cities of the great
valley from Basle to Mayence saw their streets inundated and the foundations of their most
precious architectural monuments undermined by the searching water.

The swollen river reared back at the narrow pass through the Taunus range, and formed a huge
eddy that swirled over the old city of Bingen. Then it tore down between the castle-crowned
heights, sweeping away the villages on the river banks from Bingen to Coblentz, lashing the
projecting rocks of the Lorelei, and carrying off houses, churches, and old abbeys in a rush
of ruin.

It widened out as it approached Bonn and Cologne, but the water was still deep enough to inundate
those cities, and finally it spread over the plain of Holland, finding a score of new mouths
through which to pour into the German Ocean, while the reclaimed area of the Zuyder Zee once
more joined the ocean, and Amsterdam and the other cities of the Netherlands were buried, in
many cases to the tops of the house doors.

West and south the situation was the same. The Mer de Glace at Chamonix, and all the other
glaciers of the Mont Blanc range, disappeared, sending floods down to Geneva and over the Dauphiny
and down into the plains of Piedmont and Lombardy. The ruin was tremendous and the loss of
life incalculable. Geneva, Turin, Milan, and a hundred other cities, were swept by torrents.

The rapidity of this melting of the vast snow-beds and glaciers of the Alps was inconceivable,
and the effect of the sudden denudation upon the mountains themselves was ghastly. Their seamed
and cavernous sides stood forth, gaunt and naked, a revelation of Nature in her most fearful
aspects such as men had never looked upon. Mont Blanc, without its blanket of snow and ice,
towered like the blackened ruin of a fallen world, a sight that made the beholders shudder.

But this flood ended as suddenly as it had begun. When the age-long accumulations of snow had
all melted the torrents ceased to pour down from the mountains, and immediately the courageous
and industrious inhabitants of the Netherlands began to repair their broken dikes, while in
Northern Italy and the plains of Southeastern France every effort was made to repair the terrible
losses.

Of course similar scenes had been enacted, and on even a more fearful scale, in the plains
of India, flooded by the melting of the enormous icy burden that covered the Himalayas, the
"Abode of Snow." And all over the world, wherever icy mountains reared themselves above inhabited
lands, the same story of destruction and death was told.

Then, after an interval, came the yet more awful invasion of the sea.

But few details can be given from lack of records. The Thames roared backward on its course,
and London and all central England were inundated. A great bore of sea-water swept along the
shores of the English Channel, and bursting through the Skager Rack, covered the lower end
of Sweden, and rushed up the Gulf of Finland, burying St. Petersburg, and turning all Western
Russia, and the plains of Pomerania into a sea. The Netherlands disappeared. The Atlantic poured
through the narrow pass of the Strait of Gibraltar, leaving only the Lion Rock visible above
the waves.

At length the ocean found its way into the Desert of Sahara, large areas of which had been
reclaimed, and were inhabited by a considerable population of prosperous farmers. Nowhere did
the sudden coming of the flood cause greater consternation than here--strange as that statement
may seem. The people had an undefined idea that they were protected by a sort of barrier from
any possible inundation.

It had taken so many years and such endless labor to introduce into the Sahara sufficient water
to transform its potentially rich soil into arable land that the thought of any sudden superabundance
of that element was far from the minds of the industrious agriculturalists. They had heard
of the inundations caused by the melting of the mountain snows elsewhere, but there were no
snow-clad mountains near them to be feared.

Accordingly, when a great wave of water came rushing upon them, surmounted, where it swept
over yet unredeemed areas of the desert, by immense clouds of whirling dust, that darkened
the air and recalled the old days of the simoom, they were taken completely by surprise. But
as the water rose higher they tried valiantly to escape. They were progressive people, and
many of them had aeros. Besides, two or three lines of aero expresses crossed their country.
All who could do so immediately embarked in airships, some fleeing toward Europe, and others
hovering about, gazing in despair at the spreading waters beneath them.

As the invasion of the sea grew more and more serious, this flight by airship became a common
spectacle over all the lower-lying parts of Europe, and in the British Isles. But, in the midst
of it, the heavens opened their flood-gates, as they had done in the New World, and then the
aeros, flooded with rain, and hurled about by contending blasts of wind, drooped, fluttered,
and fell by hundreds into the fast mounting waves. The nebula was upon them!

In the meantime those who had provided arks of one kind or another, tried desperately to get
them safely afloat. All the vessels that succeeded in leaving their wharves were packed with
fugitives. Boats of every sort were pressed into use, and the few that survived were soon floating
over the sites of the drowned homes of their occupants.

Before it was too late Yves de Beauxchamps and his friends launched their submarine, and plunged
into the bosom of the flood.

CHAPTER XIII

STRANGE FREAKS OF THE NEBULA

We return to follow the fortunes of Cosmo Versal's Ark.

After he had so providentially picked up the crazed billionaire, Amos Blank, and his three
companions, Cosmo ordered Captain Arms to bear away southeastward, bidding farewell to the
drowned shores of America, and sailing directly over the lower part of Manhattan, and western
Long Island. The navigation was not easy, and if the Ark had not been a marvelously buoyant
vessel it would not long have survived. At the beginning the heavy and continuous rain kept
down the waves, and the surface of the sea was comparatively smooth, but after a while a curious
phenomenon began to be noticed; immense billows would suddenly appear, rushing upon the Ark
now from one direction and now from another, canting it over at a dangerous angle, and washing
almost to the top of the huge ellipsoid of the dome. At such times it was difficult for anybody
to maintain a footing, and there was great terror among the passengers. But Cosmo, and stout
Captain Arms, remained at their post, relieving one another at frequent intervals, and never
entrusting the sole charge of the vessel to any of their lieutenants.

Cosmo Versal himself was puzzled to account for the origin of the mighty billows, for it seemed
impossible that they could be raised by the wind notwithstanding the fact that it blew at times
with hurricane force. But at last the explanation came of itself.

Both Cosmo and the captain happened to be on the bridge together when they saw ahead something
that looked like an enormous column as black as ink, standing upright on the surface of the
water. A glance showed that it was in swift motion, and, more than that, was approaching in
a direct line toward the Ark. In less than two minutes it was upon them.

The instant that it met the Ark a terrific roaring deafened them, and the rounded front of
the dome beneath their eyes disappeared under a deluge of descending water so dense that the
vision could not penetrate it. In another half minute the great vessel seemed to have been
driven to the bottom of the sea. But for the peculiar construction of the shelter of the bridge
its occupants would have been drowned at their posts. As it was they were soaked as if they
had been plunged overboard. Impenetrable darkness surrounded them.

But the buoyant vessel shook itself, rolled from side to side, and rose with a staggering motion
until it seemed to be poised on the summit of a watery mountain. Immediately the complete darkness
passed, the awful downpour ceased, although the rain still fell in torrents, and the Ark began
to glide downward with sickening velocity, as if it were sliding down a liquid slope.

It was a considerable time before the two men, clinging to the supports of the bridge, were
able to maintain their equilibrium sufficiently to render it possible to utter a few connected
words. As soon as he could speak with reasonable comfort Cosmo exclaimed:

"Now I see what it is that causes the billows, but it is a phenomenon that I should never have
anticipated. It is all due to the nebula. Evidently there are irregularities of some kind in
its constitution which cause the formation of almost solid masses of water in the atmosphere--suspended
lakes, as it were--which then plunge down in a body as if a hundred thousand Niagaras were
pouring together from the sky.

"These sudden accessions of water raise stupendous waves which sweep off in every direction,
and that explains the billows that we have encountered."

"Well, this nebular navigation beats all my experience," said Captain Arms, wiping the water
out of his eyes. "I was struck by a waterspout once in the Indian Ocean, and I thought that
that capped the climax, but it was only a catspaw to this. Give me a clear offing and I don't
care how much wind blows, but blow me if I want to get under any more lakes in the sky."

"We'll have to take whatever comes," returned Cosmo, "but I don't think there is much danger
of running directly into many of these downpours as we did into this one. Now that we know
what they are, we can, perhaps, detect them long enough in advance to steer out of their way.
Anyhow, we've got a good vessel under our feet. Anything but an ark of levium would have gone
under for good, and if I had not covered the vessel with the dome there would have been no
chance for a soul in her."

As a matter of fact, the Ark did not encounter any more of the columns of descending water,
but the frequent billows that were met showed that they were careering over the face of the
swollen sea in every direction.

But there was another trouble of a different nature. The absence of sun and stars deprived
them of the ordinary means of discovering their place. They could only make a rough guess as
to the direction in which they were going. The gyrostatic compasses gave them considerable
assistance, and they had perfect chronometers, but these latter could be of no use without
celestial observations of some kind.

At length Cosmo devised a means of obtaining observations that were of sufficient value to
partially serve their purpose. He found that while the disk of the sun was completely hidden
in the watery sky, yet it was possible to determine its location by means of the varying intensity
of the light.

Where the sun was a concentrated glow appeared, shading gradually off on all sides. With infinite
pains Cosmo, assisted by the experience of the captain, succeeded in determining the center
of the maximum illumination, and, assuming that to represent the true place of the sun, they
got something in the nature of observations for altitude and azimuth, and Captain Arms even
drew on his chart "Sumner lines" to determine the position of the Ark, although he smiled at
the thought of their absurd inaccuracy. Still, it was the best they could do, and was better
than nothing at all.

They kept a log going also, although, as the captain pointed out, it was not of much use to
know how fast they were traveling, since they could not know the precise direction, within
a whole point of the compass, or perhaps several points.

"Besides," he remarked, "what do we know of the currents? This is not the old Atlantic. If
I could feel the Gulf Stream I'd know whereabouts I was, but these currents come from all directions,
and a man might as well try to navigate in a tub of boiling water."

"But we can, at least, keep working eastward," said Cosmo. "My idea is first to make enough
southing to get into the latitude of the Sahara Desert, and then run directly east, so as to
cross Africa where there are no mountains, and where we shall be certain of having plenty of
water under our keel.

"Then, having got somewhere in the neighborhood of Suez, we can steer down into the region
of the Indian Ocean, and circle round south of the Himalayas. I want to keep an eye on those
mountains, and stay around the place where they disappear, because that will be the first part
of the earth to emerge from the flood and it is there that we shall ultimately make land."

"Well, we're averaging eight knots," said the captain, "and at that rate we ought to be in
the longitude of the African coast in about twenty days. How high will the water stand then?"

"My gages show," replied Cosmo, "that the regular fall amounts to exactly the same thing as
at the beginning--two inches a minute. Of course the spouts increase the amount locally, but
I don't think that they add materially to the general rise of the flood. Two inches per minute
means 4,800 feet in twenty days. That'll be sufficient to make safe navigation for us all the
way across northern Africa. We'll have to be careful in getting out into the Indian Ocean area,
for there are mountains on both sides that might give us trouble, but the higher ones will
still be in sight, and they will serve to indicate the location of the lower ranges already
submerged, but not covered deeply enough to afford safe going over them."

"All right," said Captain Arms, "you're the commodore, but if we don't hang our timbers on
the Mountains of the Moon, or the Alps, or old Ararat, I'm a porpoise. Why can't you keep circling
round at a safe distance, in the middle of the Atlantic, until all these reefs get a good depth
of water on 'em?"

"Because," Cosmo replied, "even if we keep right on now it will probably take two months, allowing
for delays in getting round dangerous places, to come within sight of the Himalayas, and in
two months the flood will have risen nearly 15,000 feet, thus hiding many of the landmarks.
If we should hold off here a couple of months before starting eastward nothing but the one
highest peak on the globe would be left in sight by the time we arrived there, and that wouldn't
be anything more than a rock, so that with the uncertainty of our navigation we might not be
able to find it at all. I must know the spot where Tibet sinks, and then manage to keep in
its neighborhood."

That ended the argument.

"Give me a safe port, with lights and bearings, and I'll undertake to hit it anywhere in the
two hemispheres, but blow me if I fancy steering for the top of the world by dead reckoning,
or no reckoning at all," grumbled the captain.

At night, of course, they had not even the slight advantage that their observations of the
probable place of the sun gave them when it was above the horizon. Then they had to go solely
by the indications of the compass. Still, they forged steadily ahead, and when they got into
what they deemed the proper latitude, they ran for the site of the drowned Sahara.

After about a week the billowing motion caused by the descent of the "lakes in the sky" ceased
entirely, to their great delight, but the lawless nebula was now preparing another surprise
for them.

On the ninth night after their departure from their lodgment on the Palisades Cosmo Versal
was sleeping in his bunk close by the bridge, where he could be called in an instant, dreaming
perhaps of the glories of the new world that was to emerge out of the deluge, when he was abruptly
awakened by the voice of Captain Arms, who appeared to be laboring under uncontrollable excitement.

"Tumble up quicker'n you ever did in your life!" he exclaimed, his big brown beard wagging
almost in Cosmo's face. "The flood's over!"

Cosmo sprang out of bed and pulled on his coat in a second.

"What do you mean?" he demanded.

"Look for yourself," said the captain, pointing overhead.

Cosmo Versal glanced up and saw the sky ablaze with stars! The rain had entirely ceased. The
surface of the sea was almost as smooth as glass, though rising and falling slowly, with a
long, rolling motion. The Ark rode steadily, shivering, like an ocean liner, under the impulse
of its engines, and the sudden silence, succeeding the ceaseless roar of the downpour, which
had never been out of their ears from the start of the voyage, seemed supernatural.

"When did this happen?" he demanded.

"It began not more than five minutes ago. I was just saying to myself that we ought to be somewhere
near the center of the old Atlantic as it used to be, and wondering whether we had got our
course laid right to go fairly between the Canaries and the Cape de Verdes, for I didn't want
to be harpooned by Gogo or the Peak of Teneriffe, when all of a sudden there came a lightening
in the nor'east and the stars broke out there.

"I was so set aback that I didn't do anything for two or three minutes but stare at the stars.
Then the rain stopped and a curtain seemed to roll off the sky, and in a minute more it was
clear down to the horizon all around. Then I got my wits together and ran to call you."

Cosmo glanced around and above, seeming to be as much astonished as the captain had been. He
rubbed his huge bald dome and looked all round again before speaking. At last he said:

"It's the nebula again. There must be a hole in it."

"Its whole bottom's knocked out, I reckon," said the captain. "Maybe it's run out of water--sort
o' squeezed itself dry."

Cosmo shook his head.

"We are not yet in the heart of it," he said. "It is evident to me now that what I took for
the nucleus was only a close-coiled spiral, and we're run out of that, but the worst is yet
to come. When we strike the center, then we'll catch it, and there'll be no more intermissions."

"How long will that be?" inquired Captain Arms.

"It may be a week, and it may be a month, though I hardly think it will be so long as that.
The earth is going about twelve miles a second--that's more than a million miles a day--directly
toward the center of the nebula. It has taken ten days to go through the spiral that we have
encountered, making that about ten million miles thick. It's not likely that the gap between
this spiral and the nucleus of the nebula is more than thirty million miles across, at the
most; so you see we'll probably be in the nucleus within a month, and possibly much less than
a month."

Captain Arms took a chew of tobacco.

"We can get our bearings now," he remarked. "Look, there's the moon just rising, and on my
word, she is going to occult Aldebaran within an hour. I'll get an observation for longitude,
and another on Polaris for latitude. No running on submerged mountains for us now."

The captain was as good as his word, and when his observations had been made and the calculations
completed he announced that the position of the Ark was: Latitude, 16 degrees 10 minutes north;
longitude, 42 degrees 28 minutes west.

"Lucky for us," he exclaimed, "that the sky cleared. If we'd kept on as we were going we'd
have struck the Cape de Verdes, and if that had happened at night we'd probably have left our
bones on a drowning volcano. We ought to have been ten or twelve degrees farther north to make
a safe passage over the Sahara. What's the course now? Are you still for running down the Himalaya
mountains?"

"I'll decide later what to do," said Cosmo Versal. "Make your northing, and then we'll cruise
around a little and see what's best to be done."

When day came on, brilliant with sunshine, and the astonished passengers, hurrying out of their
bunks, crowded about the now opened gangways and the portholes, which Cosmo had also ordered
to be opened, and gazed with delight upon the smooth blue sea, the utmost enthusiasm took possession
of them.

The flood was over!

They were sure of it, and they shook hands with one another and congratulated themselves and
hurrahed, and gave cheers for the Ark and cheers for Cosmo Versal. Then they began to think
of their drowned homes and of their lost friends, and sadness followed joy. Cosmo was mobbed
by eager inquiries wherever he made his appearance.

Was it all over for good? Would the flood dry up in a few days? How long would it be before
New York would be free of water? Were they going right back there? Did he think there was a
chance that many had escaped in boats and ships? Couldn't they pick up the survivors if they
hurried back?

Cosmo tried to check the enthusiasm.

"It's too early for rejoicing," he assured them. "It's only a break in the nebula. We've got
a respite for a short time, but there's worse coming. The drowning of the world will proceed.
We are the only survivors, except perhaps some of those who inhabited the highlands. Everything
less than 2,400 feet above the former level of the sea is now under water. When the flood begins
again it will keep on until it is six miles deep over the old sea margins."

"Why not go back and try to rescue those who you say may have found safety on the highlands?"
asked one.

"I have chosen my company," he said, "and I had good reasons for the choice I made. I have
already added to the number, because simple humanity compelled me, but I can take no more.
The quantity of provisions aboard the Ark is not greater than will be needed by ourselves.
If the rest of the world is drowned it is not my fault. I did my best to warn them. Besides,
we could do nothing in the way of rescue even if we should go back for that purpose. We could
not approach the submerged plateaus. We would be aground before we got within sight of them."

These words went far to change the current of feeling among the passengers. When they learned
that there would be danger for themselves in the course that had been proposed their humanity
proved to be less strong than their desire for self-preservation. Nevertheless, as we shall
see, the Ark ultimately went back to America, though not for any reason that had yet been suggested.

Meanwhile the unexpected respite furnished by the sudden cessation of the downpour from the
sky had other important results, to which we now turn.

CHAPTER XIV

THE ESCAPE OF THE PRESIDENT

When Professor Abiel Pludder indited his savage response to Cosmo Versal's invitation to become
one of the regenerators of mankind by embarking in the Ark, he was expressing his professional
prejudice rather than his intellectual conviction. As Cosmo had remarked, Pludder had a good
brain and great scientific acuteness, and, although he did not believe in the nebular theory
of a flood, and was obstinately opposed to everything that was not altogether regular and according
to recognized authority in science, yet he could not shut his eyes to the fact that something
was going wrong in the machinery of the heavens. But it annoyed him to find that his own explanations
were always falsified by the event, while Cosmo Versal seemed to have a superhuman foreglimpse
of whatever happened.

His pride would not allow him to recede from the position that he had taken, but he could not
free himself from a certain anxiety about the future. After he had refused Cosmo Versal's invitation,
the course of events strengthened this anxiety. He found that the official meteorologists were
totally unable to account for the marvelous vagaries of the weather.

Finally, when the news came of tremendous floods in the north, and of the overflowing of Hudson
Bay, he secretly determined to make some preparations of his own. He still rejected the idea
of a watery nebula, but he began to think it possible that all the lowlands of the earth might
be overflowed by the sea, and by the melting of mountain snows and glaciers, together with
deluging rainfall. After what had passed, he could not think of making any public confession
of his change of heart, but his sense of humanity compelled him to give confidential warning
to his friends that it would be well to be prepared to get on high ground at a moment's notice.

He was on the point of issuing, but without his signature, an official statement cautioning
the public against unprecedented inundations, when the first tidal wave arrived on the Atlantic
coast and rendered any utterance of that kind unnecessary. People's eyes were opened, and now
they would look out for themselves.

Pludder's private preparations amounted to no more than the securing of a large express aero,
in which, if the necessity for suddenly leaving Washington should arise, he intended to take
flight, together with President Samson, who was his personal friend, and a number of other
close friends, with their families. He did not think that it would be necessary, in any event,
to go farther than the mountains of Virginia.

The rising of the sea, mounting higher at each return, at length convinced him that the time
had come to get away. Hundreds of air craft had already departed westward, not only from Washington,
but from New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Boston, and other seaboard cities, before Professor
Pludder assembled his friends by telephone on the Capitol grounds, where his aero was waiting.

The lower streets of the city were under water from the overflow of the Potomac, which was
backed up by the influx of the Atlantic into Chesapeake Bay, and the most distressing scenes
were enacted there, people fleeing in the utmost disorder toward higher ground, carrying their
children and some of their household goods, and uttering doleful cries. Many, thinking that
the best way to escape, embarked in frail boats on the river, which was running up-stream with
frightful velocity, and rising perceptibly higher every second. Most of these boats were immediately
overturned or swamped.

If the start had been delayed but a little longer, the aero would have been mobbed by the excited
people, who uttered yells of disappointment and rage when they saw it rise from its tower and
sail over the city. It was the last airship that left Washington, and it carried the last persons
who escaped from the national capital before the downpour from the atmosphere began which put
an end to all possibility of getting away.

There were on board, in addition to a crew of three, twenty-two persons. These included President
Samson, with his wife and three children, seven other men with their families, making, together,
sixteen persons, and Professor Pludder, who had no family.

More because they wished to escape from the painful scenes beneath them than because they deemed
that there was any occasion for particular haste, they started off at high speed, and it was
probably lucky for them that this speed was maintained after they had left Washington out of
sight. They rapidly approached the Blue Ridge in the neighborhood of Luray, and Pludder was
about to order a landing there as night was approaching, when with great suddenness the sky
filled with dense clouds and a tremendous downpour began. This was the same phenomenon which
has already been described as following closely the attack at New York on Cosmo Versal's Ark.

The aero, luckily, was one of the best type, and well covered, so that they were protected
from the terrible force of the rain, but in the tumult there could be no more thought of descending.
It would have been impossible to make a landing in the midst of the storm and the pouring water,
which rushed in torrents down the mountainside. Professor Pludder was a brave man and full
of resources when driven into a corner. Being familiar with the construction and management
of aeros, for he had been educated as an engineer, he now took charge of the airship.

Within twenty minutes after the sky had opened its batteries--for the rain had almost the force
of plunging shot--a mighty wind arose, and the aero, pitching, tossing, and dipping like a
mad thing, was driven with frightful speed eastward. This wild rush continued for more than
an hour. By this time it was full night, and the pouring rain around them was as impenetrable
to the sight as a black wall.

They had their electric lamps inside, and their searchlights, but it was impossible to tell
where they were. Pludder turned the searchlight downward, but he could not make out the features
of the ground beneath them. It is likely that they were driven at least as far as Chesapeake
Bay, and they may have passed directly over Washington.

At last, however, the wind slewed round, and began to blow with undiminished violence from
the northeast. Plunging and swerving, and sometimes threatened with a complete somersault,
the aero hurried away in its crazy flight, while its unfortunate inmates clung to one another,
and held on by any object within reach, in the endeavor to keep from being dashed against the
metallic walls.

The crew of the aero were picked men, but no experience could have prepared them for the work
which they now had to do. Without the ready brain of Professor Pludder to direct their efforts,
and without his personal exertions, their aerial ship would have been wrecked within a quarter
of an hour after the storm struck it. He seemed transformed into another person. Hatless and
coatless, and streaming with water, he worked like a demon. He was ready at each emergency
with some device which, under his direction, had the effect of magic.

A hundred times the aero plunged for the ground, but was saved and turned upward again just
as it seemed on the point of striking. Up and down, right and left, it ran and pitched and
whirled, like a cork in a whirlpool. Sometimes it actually skimmed the ground, plowing its
way through a torrent of rushing water, and yet it rose again and was saved from destruction.

This terrible contest lasted another hour after the turning of the wind, and then the latter
died out. Relieved from its pressure, the aero ran on with comparative ease. Professor Pludder,
suspecting that they might now be getting into a mountainous district, made every effort to
keep the craft at a high elevation, and this, notwithstanding the depressing force of the rain,
they succeeded in doing. After the dying out of the wind they kept on, by the aid of their
propellers, in the same direction in which it had been driving them, because, in the circumstances,
one way was as good as another.

The terrible discomfort of the President and his companions in the cabin of the aero was greatly
relieved by the cessation of the wind, but still they were in a most unfortunate state. The
rain, driven by the fierce blasts, had penetrated through every crevice, and they were drenched
to the skin. No one tried to speak, for it would have been almost impossible to make oneself
heard amid the uproar. They simply looked at one another in dismay and prayed for safety.

Professor Pludder, not now compelled to spend every moment in the management of the craft,
entered the cabin occasionally, pressed the hand of the President, smiled encouragingly on
the women and children, and did all he could, in pantomime, to restore some degree of confidence.
Inside, the lights were aglow, but outside it was as dark as pitch, except where the broad
finger of the searchlight, plunging into the mass of tumbling water, glittered and flashed.

The awful night seemed endless, but at last a pale illumination appeared in the air, and they
knew that day had come. The spectacle of the skyey deluge was now so terrible that it struck
cold even to their already benumbed hearts. The atmosphere seemed to have been turned into
a mighty cataract thundering down upon the whole face of the earth. Now that they could see
as well as hear, the miracle of the preservation of the aero appeared incredible.

As the light slowly brightened, Professor Pludder, constantly on the outlook, caught a glimpse
of a dark, misty object ahead. It loomed up so suddenly, and was already so close, that before
he could sufficiently alter the course of the aero, it struck with such violence as to crush
the forward end of the craft and break one of the aeroplanes. Everybody was pitched headforemost,
those inside falling on the flooring, while Pludder and the three men of the crew were thrown
out upon a mass of rocks. All were more or less seriously injured, but none was killed or totally
disabled.

Pludder sprang to his feet, and, slipping and plunging amid the downpour, managed to get back
to the wreck and aid the President and the others to get upon their feet.

"We're lodged on a mountain!" he yelled. "Stay inside, under the shelter of the roof!"

The three men who, together with the professor, had been precipitated out among the rocks,
also scrambled in, and there they stood, or sat, the most disconsolate and despairing group
of human beings that ever the eye of an overseeing Providence looked down upon.

The President presented the most pitiable sight of all. Like the rest, his garments were sopping,
his eyes were bloodshot, his face was ghastly, and his tall silk hat, which he had jammed down
upon his brow, had been softened by the water and crushed by repeated blows into the form of
a closed accordion. Of the women and children it is needless to speak; no description could
convey an idea of their condition.

In these circumstances, the real strength of Professor Abiel Pludder's mind was splendidly
displayed. He did not lose his head, and he comprehended the situation, and what it was necessary
to do, in a flash. He got out some provisions and distributed them to the company, in some
cases actually forcing them to eat. With his own hands he prepared coffee, with the apparatus
always carried by express aeros, and made them drink it.

When all had thus been refreshed he approached President Samson and shouted in his ear:

"We shall have to stay here until the downpour ceases. To guard against the effects of a tempest,
if one should arise, we must secure the aero in its place. For that I need the aid of every
man in the party. We have, fortunately, struck in a spot on the mountain where we are out of
the way of the torrents of water that are pouring down through the ravines on either side.
We can make our lodgment secure, but we must go to work immediately."

Stimulated by his example, the President and the others set to work, and with great difficulty,
for they had to guard their eyes and nostrils from the driving rain, which, sometimes, in spite
of their precautions, nearly smothered them, they succeeded in fastening the aero to the rocks
by means of metallic cables taken from its stores. When this work was finished they returned
under the shelter of the cabin roof and lay down exhausted. So worn out were they that all
of them quickly fell into a troubled sleep.

It would be needless to relate in detail the sufferings, mental and physical, that they underwent
during the next ten days. While they were hanging there on the mountain the seaboard cities
of the world were drowned, and Cosmo Versal's Ark departed on the remarkable voyage that has
been described in a former chapter. They had plenty of provisions, for the aero had been well
stored, but partly through precaution and partly because of lack of appetite they ate sparingly.
The electric generators of the aero had not been injured in the wreck of the craft, and they
were able to supply themselves with sufficient heat, and with light inside the cabin at night.

Once they had a strange visitor--a half-drowned bear, which had struggled up the mountain from
its den somewhere below--but that was the only living creature beside themselves that they
saw. After gazing wistfully at the aero from the top of a rock the poor bear, fighting the
choking rain with its soaked paws, stumbled into one of the torrents that poured furiously
down on each side, and was swept from their sight.

Fortunately, the wind that they had anticipated did not come, but frequently they saw or heard
the roaring downpours of solid watery columns like those that had so much astonished Cosmo
Versal and Captain Arms in the midst of the Atlantic, but none came very near them.

Professor Pludder ventured out from time to time, clambering a little way up and down the projecting
ridge of the mountain on which they were lodged, and at length was able to assure his companions
that they were on the northwestern face of Mount Mitchell, the highest peak of the Appalachian
range. With the aid of his pocket aneroid, making allowance for the effect of the lifting of
the whole atmosphere by the flood, and summoning his knowledge of the locality--for he had
explored, in former years, all the mountains in this region--he arrived at the conclusion that
their place of refuge was elevated about four thousand feet above the former level of the sea.

At first their range of vision did not allow them to see the condition of the valleys below
them, but as the water crept higher it gradually came into view. It rose steadily up the slopes
beneath, which had already been stripped of their covering of trees and vegetation by the force
of the descending torrents, until on the tenth day it had arrived almost within reach. Since,
as has just been said, they were four thousand feet above the former level of the sea, it will
be observed that the water must have been rising much more rapidly than the measurements of
Cosmo Versal indicated. Its average rate of rise had been three instead of two inches per minute,
and the world was buried deeper than Cosmo thought. The cause of his error will be explained later.

The consternation of the little party when they thus beheld the rapid drowning of the world
below them, and saw no possibility of escape for themselves if the water continued to advance,
as it evidently would do, cannot be depicted. Some of them were driven insane, and were with
difficulty prevented by those who retained their senses from throwing themselves into the flood.

Pludder was the only one who maintained a command over his nerves, although he now at last
believed in the nebula. He recognized that there was no other possible explanation of the flood
than that which Cosmo Versal had offered long before it began. In his secret heart he had no
expectation of ultimate escape, yet he was strong enough to continue to encourage his companions
with hopes which he could not himself entertain.

When, after nightfall on the tenth day, the water began to lap the lower parts of the aero,
he was on the point of persuading the party to clamber up the rocks in search of the shelter
above, but as he stepped out of the door of the cabin to reconnoiter the way, with the aid
of the searchlight which he had turned up along the ridge, he was astonished to find the rain
rapidly diminishing in force; and a few minutes later it ceased entirely, and the stars shone out.

The sudden cessation of the roar upon the roof brought everybody to their feet, and before
Professor Pludder could communicate the good news all were out under the sky, rejoicing and
offering thanks for their deliverance. The women were especially affected. They wept in one
another's arms, or convulsively clasped their children to their breasts.

At length the President found his voice.

"What has happened?" he asked.

Professor Pludder, with the new light that had come to him, was as ready with an explanation
as Cosmo Versal himself had been under similar circumstances.

"We must have run out of the nebula."

"The nebula!" returned Mr. Samson in surprise. "Has there been a nebula, then?"

"Without question," was the professor's answer. "Nothing but an encounter with a watery nebula
could have had such a result."

"But you always said----" began the President.

"Yes," Pludder broke in, "but one may be in error sometimes."

"Then, Cosmo Versal----"

"Let us not discuss Cosmo Versal," exclaimed Professor Pludder, with a return of his old dictatorial
manner.

CHAPTER XV

PROFESSOR PLUDDER'S DEVICE

Morning dawned brilliantly on Mount Mitchell and revealed to the astonished eyes of the watchers
an endless expanse of water, gleaming and sparkling in the morning sunlight. It was a spectacle
at once beautiful and fearful, and calculated to make their hearts sink with pity no less than
with terror. But for a time they were distracted from the awful thoughts which such a sight
must inspire by anxiety concerning themselves. They could not drive away the fear that, at
any moment, the awful clouds might return and the terrible downpour be resumed.

But Professor Pludder, whose comprehension of the cause of the deluge was growing clearer the
more he thought about it, did not share the anxiety of the President and the others.

"The brightness of the sky," he said, "shows that there is no considerable quantity of condensing
vapor left in the atmosphere. If the earth has run out of the nebula, that is likely to be
the end of the thing. If there is more of the nebulous matter in surrounding space we may miss
it entirely, or, if not, a long time would elapse before we came upon it.

"The gaps that exist in nebulae are millions of miles across, and the earth would require days
and weeks to go such distances, granting that it were traveling in the proper direction. I
think it altogether probable that this nebula, which must be a small one as such things go,
consists of a single mass, and that, having traversed it, we are done with it. We are out of
our troubles."

"Well, hardly," said the President. "Here we are, prisoners on a mountain, with no way of getting
down, the whole land beneath being turned into a sea. We can't stay here indefinitely. For
how long a time are we provisioned?"

"We have compressed food enough to last this party a month," replied Professor Pludder; "that
is to say, if we are sparing of it. For water we cannot lack, since this that surrounds us
is not salt, and if it were we could manage to distil it. But, of course, when I said we were
out of our troubles I meant only that there was no longer any danger of being swallowed up
by the flood. It is true that we cannot think of remaining here. We must get off."

"But how? Where can we go?"

Professor Pludder thought a long time before he answered this question. Finally he said, measuring
his words:

"The water is four thousand feet above the former level of the sea. There is no land sufficiently
lofty to rise above it this side of the Colorado plateau."

"And how far is that?"

"Not less than eleven hundred miles in an air line."

The President shuddered.

"Then, all this vast country of ours from here to the feet of the Rocky Mountains is now under
water thousands of feet deep!"

"There can be no doubt of it. The Atlantic Coast States, the Southern States, the Mississippi
Valley, the region of the Great Lakes, and Canada are now a part of the Atlantic Ocean."

"And all the great cities--gone! Merciful Father! What a thought!"

The President mused for a time, and gradually a frown came upon his brow. He glanced at Professor
Pludder with a singular look. Then his cheek reddened, and an angry expression came into his
eyes. Suddenly he turned to the professor and said sternly:

"You said you did not wish to discuss Cosmo Versal. I should not think you would! Who predicted
this deluge? Did you?"

"I----" began Professor Pludder, taken aback by the President's manner.

"Oh, yes," interrupted the President, "I know what you would say. You didn't predict it because
you didn't see it coming. But why didn't you see it? What have we got observatories and scientific
societies for if they can't see or comprehend anything? Didn't Cosmo Versal warn you? Didn't
he tell you where to look, and what to look for? Didn't he show you his proofs?"

"We thought they were fallacious," stammered Professor Pludder.

"You thought they were fallacious--well, were they fallacious? Does this spectacle of a nation
drowned look 'fallacious' to you? Why didn't you study the matter until you understood it?
Why did you issue officially, and with my ignorant sanction--may God forgive me for my blindness!--statement
after statement, assuring the people that there was no danger--statements that were even abusive
toward him who alone should have been heard?

"And yet, as now appears, you knew nothing about it. Millions upon millions have perished through
your obstinate opposition to the truth. They might have saved themselves if they had been permitted
to listen to the many times reiterated warnings of Cosmo Versal.

"Oh, if I had only listened to him, and issued a proclamation as he urged me to do! But I followed
your advice--you, in whose learning and pretended science I put blind faith! Abiel Pludder,
I would not have upon my soul the weight that now rests on yours for all the wealth that the
lost world carried down into its watery grave!"

As the President ceased speaking he turned away and sank upon a rock, pressing his hands upon
his throat to suppress the sobs that broke forth despite his efforts. His form shook like an aspen.

The others crowded around excitedly, some of the women in hysterics, and the men not knowing
what to do or say. Professor Pludder, completely overwhelmed by the suddenness and violence
of the attack, went off by himself and sat down with his head in his hands. After a while he
arose and approached the President, who had not moved from his place on the rock.

"George," he said--they had known each other from boyhood--"I have made a terrible mistake.
And yet I was not alone in it. The majority of my colleagues were of my opinion, as were all
the learned societies of Europe. No such thing as a watery nebula has ever been known to science.
It was inconceivable."

"Some of your colleagues did not think so," said the President, looking up.

"But they were not really convinced, and they were aware that they were flying in the face
of all known laws."

"I am afraid," said the President dryly, "that science does not know all the laws of the universe
yet."

"I repeat," resumed Professor Pludder, "that I made a fearful mistake. I have recognized the
truth too late. I accept the awful burden of blame that rests upon me, and I now wish to do
everything in my power to retrieve the consequences of my terrible error."

The President arose and grasped the professor's hand.

"Forgive me, Abiel," he said, with emotion, "if I have spoken too much in the manner of a judge
pronouncing sentence. I was overwhelmed by the thought of the inconceivable calamity that has
come upon us. I believe that you acted conscientiously and according to your best lights, and
it is not for any mortal to judge you for an error thus committed. Let us think only of what
we must do now."

"To that thought," responded Professor Pludder, returning the pressure of the President's hand,
"I shall devote all my energy. If I can save only this little party I shall have done something
in the way of atonement."

It was a deep humiliation for a man of Professor Pludder's proud and uncompromising nature
to confess that he had committed an error more fearful in its consequences than had ever been
laid at the door of a human being, but Cosmo Versal had rightly judged him when he assured
Joseph Smith that Pludder was morally sound, and, in a scientific sense, had the root of the
matter in him. When his mental vision was clear, and unclouded by prejudice, no one was more
capable of high achievements.

He quickly proved his capacity now, as he had already proved it during the preceding, adventures
of the President's party. It was perfectly plain to him that their only chance was in getting
to Colorado at the earliest possible moment. The eastern part of the continent was hopelessly
buried, and even on the high plains of the Middle West the fury of the downpour might have
spread universal disaster and destroyed nearly all the vegetation; but, in any event, it was
there alone that the means of prolonging life could be sought.

With the problem squarely before his mind, he was not long in finding a solution. His first
step was to make a thorough examination of the aero, with the hope that the damage that it
had suffered might be reparable. He had all the tools that would be needed, as it was the custom
for express aeros to carry a complete equipment for repairs; but unfortunately one of the planes
of the aero was wrecked beyond the possibility of repair. He knew upon what delicate adjustments
the safety of the modern airship depended, and he did not dare undertake a voyage with a lame
craft.

Then the idea occurred to him of trying to escape by water. The aero was a machine of the very
latest type, and made of levium, consequently it would float better than wood.

If the opposition of shipbuilders, incited and backed by selfish interests, had not prevented
the employment of levium in marine construction, millions of lives might now have been saved;
but, as we have before said, only a few experimental boats of levium had been made.

Moreover, like all aeros intended for long trips, this one had what was called a "boat-bottom,"
intended to enable it to remain afloat with its burden in case of an accidental fall into a
large body of water. Pludder saw that this fact would enable him to turn the wreck into a raft.

It would only be necessary to reshape the craft a little, and this was the easier because the
aero was put together in such a manner with screw-bolts and nuts that it could be articulated
or disarticulated as readily as a watch. He had entire confidence in his engineering skill,
and in the ability of the three experienced men of the crew to aid him. He decided to employ
the planes for outriders, which would serve to increase the buoyancy and stability.

As soon as he had completed his plan in his mind he explained his intentions to the President.
The latter and the other members of the party were at first as much startled as surprised by
the idea of embarking on a voyage of eleven hundred miles in so questionable a craft, but Professor
Pludder assured them that everything would go well.

"But how about the propulsion?" asked Mr. Samson. "You can't depend on the wind, and we've
got no sails."

"I have thought that all out," said Pludder. "I shall use the engine, and rearrange one of
the aerial screws so that it will serve for a propeller. I do not expect to get up any great
speed, but if we can make only as much as two miles an hour we shall arrive on the borders
of the Colorado upland, five thousand feet above sea, within about twenty-three days. We may
be able to do better than that."

Nobody felt much confidence in this scheme except its inventor, but it appeared to be the only
thing that could be done, and so they all fell to work, each aiding as best he could, and after
four days of hard work the remarkable craft was ready for its adventurous voyage.

Professor Pludder had succeeded even better than he anticipated in transforming one of the
aerial screws into a propeller. Its original situation was such that it naturally, as it were,
fell into the proper place when the "hull" was partly submerged, and, the blades being made
of concentric rows of small plates, there was no difficulty in reducing them to a manageable
size. The position of the engine did not need to be shifted at all.

The "outriders," made up of the discarded planes, promised to serve their purpose well, and
the cabin remained for a comfortable "deck-house." A rudder had been contrived by an alteration
of the one which had served for guiding the aero in its flights.

The water was close to their feet, and there was no great difficulty in pushing the affair
off the rocks and getting it afloat. The women and children were first put aboard, and then
the men scrambled in, and Pludder set the motors going. The improvised propeller churned and
spluttered, but it did its work after a fashion, and, under a blue sky, in dazzling sunshine,
with a soft southerly breeze fanning the strange sea that spread around them, they soon saw
the bared rocks and deeply scored flanks of Mount Mitchell receding behind them.

They were delighted to find that they were making, at the very start, no less than three miles
an hour. Pludder clapped his hands and exclaimed:

"This is capital! In but little over two weeks we shall be safe on the great plains. I have
good hope that many have survived there, and that we shall find a plenty of everything needed.
With the instruments that were aboard the aero I can make observations to determine our position,
and I shall steer for the Pike's Peak region."

When the party had become accustomed to their situation, and had gained confidence in their
craft by observing how buoyantly it bore them, they became almost cheerful in their demeanor.
The children gradually lost all fear, and, with the thoughtless joy of childhood in the pleasures
and wonders of the present moment, amused themselves in the cabin, and about the deck, which
had been surrounded with guard lines made of wire cable.

The water was almost waveless, and, if no storm should arise, there appeared to be no reason
for anxiety concerning the outcome of their adventure. But as they drove slowly on over the
submerged range of the Great Smokies, and across the valleys of Eastern Tennessee, and then
over the Cumberland range, and so out above the lowlands, they could not keep their thoughts
from turning to what lay beneath that fearful ocean. And occasionally something floated to
the surface that wrenched their heart- strings and caused them to avert their faces.

Professor Pludder kept them informed of their location. Now they were over central Tennessee;
now Nashville lay more than three thousand feet beneath their keel; now they were crossing
the valley of the Tennessee River; now the great Mississippi was under them, hidden deep beneath
the universal flood; now they were over the highlands of southern Missouri; and now over those
of Kansas.

"George," said Professor Pludder one day, addressing the President, with more emotion than
was often to be detected in his voice, "would you like to know what is beneath us now?"

"What is it, Abiel?"

"Our boyhood home--Wichita."

The President bowed his head upon his hands and groaned.

"Yes," continued Professor Pludder musingly, "there it lies, three thousand feet deep. There
is the Arkansas, along whose banks we used to play, with its golden waters now mingling feebly
with the mighty flood that covers them. There is the schoolhouse and the sandy road where we
ran races barefoot in the hot summer dust. There is your father's house, and mine, and the
homes of all our early friends--and where are they? Would to God that I had not been so blind!"

"But there was another not so blind," said the President, with something of the condemnatory
manner of his former speech.

"I know it--I know it too well now," returned the professor. "But do not condemn me, George,
for what I did not foresee and could not help."

"I am sorry," said the President sadly, "that you have awakened these old memories. But I do
not condemn you, though I condemn your science--or your lack of science. But we can do nothing.
Let us speak of it no more."

The weather was wonderful, considering what had so recently occurred. No clouds formed in the
sky, there was only a gentle breeze stirring, at night the heavens glittered with starry gems,
and by day the sun shone so hotly that awnings were spread over those whose duties required
them to be employed outside the shelter of the cabin. The improvised propeller and rudder worked
to admiration, and some days they made as much as eighty miles in the twenty-four hours.

At length, on the fourteenth day of their strange voyage, they caught sight of a curiously
shaped "pike" that projected above the horizon far to the west. At the same time they saw,
not far away toward the north and toward the south, a low line, like a sea-beach.

"We are getting into shallow water now," said Professor Pludder. "I have been following the
course of the Arkansas in order to be sure of a sufficient depth, but now we must be very careful.
We are close to the site of Las Animas, which is surrounded with land rising four thousand
feet above sea-level. If we should get aground there would be no hope for us. That pike in
the distance is Pike's Peak."

"And what is that long line of beach that stretches on the north and south?" asked the President.

"It is the topographic line of four thousand feet," replied the professor.

"And we shall encounter it ahead?"

"Yes, it makes a curve about Las Animas, and then the land lies at an average elevation of
four thousand feet, until it takes another rise beyond Pueblo."

"But we cannot sail across this half-submerged area," said the President.

"There are depressions," Professor Pludder responded, "and I hope to be able to follow their
traces until we reach land that still lies well above the water."

Near nightfall they got so close to the "beach" that they could hear the surf, not a thundering
sound, but a soft, rippling wash of the slight waves. The water about them was ruddy with thick
sediment. Professor Pludder did not dare to venture farther in the coming darkness, and he
dropped overboard two of the aero's grapples, which he had heavily weighted and attached to
wire cables. They took the ground at a depth of only ten feet. There was no wind and no perceptible
current, and so they rode all night at anchor off this strangest of coasts.

At daybreak they lifted their anchors, and went in search of the depressions of which the professor
had spoken. So accurate was his topographic knowledge and so great his skill, that late in
the afternoon they saw a tall chimney projecting above the water a little ahead.

"There's all that remains of Pueblo," said Professor Pludder.

They anchored again that night, and the next day, cautiously approaching a bluff that arose
precipitously from the water, their hearts were gladdened by the sight of three men, standing
on a bluff, excitedly beckoning to them, and shouting at the top of their voices.

CHAPTER XVI

MUTINY IN THE ARK

We left Cosmo Versal and his arkful of the flower of mankind in the midst of what was formerly
the Atlantic Ocean, but which had now expanded over so many millions of square miles that had
once been the seats of vast empires that to an eye looking at it with a telescope from Mars
it would have been unrecognizable.

All of eastern North America, all of South America to the feet of the Andes, all but the highest
mountains of Europe, nearly all of Africa, except some of the highlands of the south, all of
northern and southwestern Asia, as well as the peninsula of India, all of China and the adjacent
lands and islands except the lofty peaks, the whole of Australia, and the archipelagoes of
the Pacific, had become parts of the floor of a mighty ocean which rolled unbroken from pole
to pole.

The Great Deep had resumed its ancient reign, and what was left of the habitable globe presented
to view only far separated islands and the serrated tops of such ranges as the Alps, the Caucasus,
the Himalayas, and the Andes. The astonished inhabitants of the ocean depths now swam over
the ruins of great cities, and brushed with their fins the chiseled capitals of columns that
had supported the proudest structures of human hands.

We have seen how the unexpected arrest of the flood had left Cosmo uncertain as to the course
that he ought to pursue. But he did not long remain in doubt. He was sure that the downpour
would be resumed after an interval which at the most could not exceed a few weeks, and he resolved
to continue his way toward the future land of promise in Asia.

But he thought that he would have time to turn his prow in the direction of Europe, for he
felt a great desire to know by actual inspection to what height the water had attained. He
was certain that it could not be less than he had estimated--the indications of his rain-gage
had been too unvarying to admit of doubt on that point--but he had no means of direct measurement
since he could not sound the tremendous depths beneath the Ark.

After long meditation on the probable effects of the descending columns of water which he had
seen, he concluded that they might have added more rapidly than he first supposed to the increase
of the general level. Besides, he reflected that there was no proof that the general downpour
might not have been greater over some parts of the earth than others. All these doubts could
be dissipated if he could get a good look at some lofty mountain range, such as the Sierra
Nevada of Spain, or the Pyrenees, or, if he could venture within sight of them, the Alps.

So he said to Captain Arms:

"Steer for the coast of Europe."

The fine weather had produced a good effect upon the spirits of the company. Not only were
the ports and the gangways all open, but Cosmo ordered the temporary removal of rows of adjustable
plates on the sides of the vessel, which transformed the broad outer gangways, running its
whole length, into delightful promenade decks. There, in cozy chairs, and protected with rugs,
the passengers sat, fanned by a refreshing breeze, and dazzled by the splendor of the ocean.

They recalled, by their appearance, a shipload of summer tourists bound for the wonders and
pleasures of foreign parts. This likeness to a pleasure cruise was heightened by the constant
attentions of the crew, under Cosmo's orders, who carried about refreshing drinks and lunches,
and conducted themselves like regular ocean "stewards."

It seemed impossible to believe that the world had been drowned, and some almost persuaded
themselves that the whole thing was a dream.

It must not be supposed that the thousand-odd persons who composed this remarkable ship's company
were so hard-hearted, so selfish, so forgetful, so morally obtuse, that they never thought
of the real horror of their situation, and of the awful calamity that had overwhelmed so many
millions of their fellow-creatures. They thought of all that only too seriously and in spite
of themselves. The women especially were overwhelmed by it. But they did not wish to dwell
upon it, and Cosmo Versal did not wish that they should.

At night he had musicians play in the grand saloon; he distributed books among the passengers
from a large library which he had selected; and at last he had the stage set, and invited his
friends, the players, to entertain the company.

But he would have no plays but those of Shakespeare.

There were, probably, not half a dozen persons in the Ark who had ever seen representations
of these great dramas, and very few who had read them, so that they had the advantage of complete
novelty.

The play selected for the first representation was the tragedy of "King Lear," a strange choice,
it would, at first sight, seem, but Cosmo Versal had a deep knowledge of human nature. He knew
that only tragedy would be endured there, and that it must be tragedy so profound and overmastering
that it would dominate the feelings of those who heard and beheld it. It was the principle
of immunizing therapeutics, where poison paralyzes poison.

It came out as he anticipated. I wondered what she was thinking about.
The Voodoos--that was the name of the mountains we were heading for--had killed
a good many men in their time."

Hardy took a long and thoughtful sip from the glass in front of him before
he began again. "I've knocked about a good deal in my life," he said; "I've
 been lost--once in the jungle; I've starved; I've reached the point
where I've imagined horrors, heard voices, you understand, and seen
great, bearded men mouthing at me--a man's pretty far gone when that
happens to him--but that trip across the desert was the worst I've
ever taken.

By day it was all right, just swaying in your saddle, half asleep a good part of the time, the
smell of warm dust in your nose, the three pack-mules plodding along behind; but the nights!--I
tell you, I've sat about camp-fires up the Congo and watched big,
oily black men eat their food, and I once saw a native village sacked,
but I'd rather be tied for life to a West Coast nigger than to a man
like Whitney.

It isn't good for two people to be alone in a place like that and for one to hate the other as
I hated him. God knows why I didn't kill him; I'd have to get up and leave the fire and go out into the
night, and, mind you, I'd be shuddering like a man with the ague under that warm, soft air.
And he never for a minute suspected it.

His mind was scarred with drink as if a worm had bored its slow way in and out of it. I can see
him now, cross-legged, beyond the flames, big, unshaven, heavy-jowled, dirty, what he thought
dripping from his mouth like the bacon drippings he was too lazy
to wipe away.

I won't tell you what he talked about; you know, the old thing; but not the way even the most
wrong-minded of ordinary men talks; there was a sodden, triumphant deviltry in him that was appalling.
He cursed the country for its lack of opportunity of a certain kind; he was like a hound held
in leash, gloating over what he would do when he got back to the
kennels of civilization again.

And all the while, at the back of my mind, was a picture of that white-and-gold woman of his, way
back toward the south, waiting his return because she owed him her life for the brilliant career
she had ruined. It made you sometimes almost want to laugh--insanely. I used to lie awake
at night and pray whatever there was to kill him, and do it quickly. I would have turned back, but
I felt that every day I could keep him away from Los Pinos was a
day gained for Mrs. Whitney.

He was a dangerous maniac, too. The first day he behaved himself fairly well, but the second, after
supper, when we had cleaned up, he began to fumble through the packs, and finally produced a
bottle of brandy.

"'Fine camping stuff!' he announced. 'Lots of results for very little weight. Have some?'

"'Are you going to drink that?' I asked.

"'Oh, go to the devil!' he snapped.

'I've been out as much as you have.' I didn't argue with him further;
I hoped if he drank enough the sun would get him.

But the third night he upset the water-kegs, two of them. He had been carrying on some sort
of weird celebration by himself, and finally staggered out into the desert, singing at the
top of his lungs, and the first thing I knew he was down among the kegs, rolling over and over,
and kicking right and left. The one that was open was gone; another he kicked the plug out
of, but I managed to save about a quarter of its contents.

The next morning I spoke to him about it. He blinked his red eyes and chuckled.

"'Poor sort of stuff, anyway,' he said.

"'Yes,' I agreed; 'but without it you would blow out like a candle
in a dust storm.' After that we didn't speak to each other except
when it was necessary.

"We were in the foot-hills of the Voodoos by now, and the next day we got into the mountains themselves--great,
bare ragged peaks, black and red and dirty yellow, like the cooled-off slake of a furnace.
Every now and then a dry gully came down from nowheres; and the only human thing one could see
was occasionally, on the sides of one of these, a shivering, miserable, half-dead piñon--nothing
but that, and the steel-blue sky overhead, and the desert behind
us, shimmering like a lake of salt.

It was hot--good Lord! The horn of your saddle burned your hand. That night we camped in a
canyon, and the next day went still higher up, following the course of a rutted stream that
probably ran water once in a year. Whitney wanted to turn east, and it was all a toss-up to
me; the place looked unlikely enough, anyway, although you never
can tell. A startled, though incredulous, expression appeared on Cosmo's face, and he sprang
to his feet, but before speaking he obeyed a sign from the captain and told Smith to leave
the room. Then he locked the door and returned to his table, where he dropped into a chair,
exclaiming in a guarded voice:

"Great Heaven, can this be possible! Have you not made a mistake?"

"No," returned the captain in a stridulous whisper, "I have made no mistake. I'm absolutely
sure. If something is not done instantly we are lost!"

"This is terrible!" returned Cosmo, taking his head in his hands. "You say it is that fellow
Campo? I never liked his looks."

"He is the ringleader," replied the captain. "The first suspicion of what he was up to came
to me through an old sailor who has been with me on many a voyage. He overheard Campo talking
with another man and he listened. Trust an old sea dog to use his ears and keep himself out
of notice."

"And what did they say?"

"Enough to freeze the marrow in your bones! Campo proposed to begin by throwing 'old Versal'
and me into the sea, and then he said, with us gone, and nobody but a lot of muddle-headed
scientists to deal with, it would be easy to take the ship; seize all the treasure in her;
make everybody who would not join the mutiny walk the plank, except the women, and steer for
some place where they could land and lead a jolly life.

"'You see,' says Campo, 'this flood is a fake. There ain't going to be no more flood; it's
only a shore wash. But there's been enough of it to fix things all right for us. We've got
the world in our fist! There's millions of money aboard this ship, and there's plenty of female
beauty, and we've only got to reach out and take it.'"

Cosmo Versal's brow darkened as he listened, and a look that would have cowed the mutineers
if they could have seen it came into his eyes. His hand nervously clutched a paper-knife which
broke in his grasp, as he said in a voice trembling with passion:

"They don't know me--you don't know me. Show me the proofs of this conspiracy. Who are the
others? Campo and his friend can't be alone."

"Alone!" exclaimed the captain, unconsciously raising his voice. "There's a dozen as black-handed
rascals in it as ever went unswung."

"Do you know them?"

"Jim Waters does."

"Why haven't you told me sooner? How long has it been going on?"

"Almost ever since the deluge stopped, I think; but it was only last night that Waters got
on the track of it, and only now that he told me. This fellow that Waters heard Campo talking
to is plainly a new recruit. I say there are a dozen, because Waters has found out that number;
but I don't know but that there may be a hundred."

"How did these wretches get aboard?" demanded Cosmo, fiercely opening and shutting his fists.

"Excuse me," said the captain, "but that is up to you to say."

"So it is," replied Cosmo, with a grim look; "and it's 'up to me' to say what'll become of
them. I see how it is, they must have got in with the last lot that I took--under assumed names,
very likely. I've been more than once on the point of calling that man Campo up and questioning
him. I was surprised by his hangdog look the first time I saw him. But I have been so busy."

"You'll have to get busy in another sense if you mean to save this ship and your life," said
the captain earnestly.

"So I shall. Are you armed? No? Then take these--and use 'em when I give the word."

He handed the captain two heavy automatic pistols, and put a pair in his own side pockets.

"Now," he continued, "the first thing is to make sure that we've got the right men--and all
of them. Call in Joseph Smith."

The captain went to the door, and as he approached it there was a knock. He turned the key
and cautiously opened a crack to look out. The door was instantly slammed in his face, and
six men rushed in, with Campo, a burly, black-browed fellow, at their head. Three of the men
threw the captain on his back, and pinioned his hands before he could draw a weapon, while
Campo and the others sprang toward Cosmo Versal, Campo pointing a pistol at his head.

"It's all up, Mr. Versal!" cried Campo with a sneer. "I'll take command of this ship, and you'll
go fish for nebulas."

Cosmo had one advantage; he was behind his desk, and it was a broad and long one, and placed
almost against the wall. They could not get at him without getting round the desk. Campo did
not fire, though he might have shot Cosmo in his tracks; but evidently he was nourishing the
idea of making him walk the plank. With a sign he commanded his co-conspirators to flank the
desk at each end, while he kept Cosmo covered with his pistol.

But with a lightning movement, Cosmo dropped under the desk, and, favored by his slight form
and his extreme agility, darted like a cat past Campo's legs, and, almost before the latter
could turn round, was out of the open door. Campo fired at the retreating form, but the bullet
went wide of the mark. The pistol was practically noiseless, and the sound reached no ears
in the staterooms.

It happened that a switch controlling the lights in the gangway was on the wall by Cosmo's
door, and in passing he swiftly reached up and turned it off. Thus he was in complete darkness,
and when Campo darted out of the door he could not see the fugitive. He could hear his footsteps,
however, and with two of his companions he rushed blindly after him, firing two or three shots
at random. But Cosmo had turned at the first cross passage, and then at the next, this part
of the Ark being a labyrinth of corridors, and the pursuers quickly lost all trace of him.

Campo and his companions made their way back to Cosmo's cabin, where their fellows were guarding
Captain Arms. They found the switch in the passage and turned on the light. They were almost
immediately joined by several other conspirators conducting Joseph Smith, bound and gagged.
They held a short consultation, and Campo, with many curses, declared that Cosmo Versal must
be caught at all hazards.

"The big-headed fiend!" he cried, gnashing his teeth. "Let me get my grippers on him and I'll
squelch him like a bug!"

They threw Joseph Smith into the room beside the helpless captain, after taking the latter's
pistols, locked the door from the outside, and hurried off on their search. In the passages
they encountered several more of their friends. They now numbered fifteen, all armed. This
may seem a small number to undertake to capture the Ark; but it must be remembered that among
the thousand-odd inmates, exclusive of the crew, only about one in three was a man, and the
majority of these were peaceable scientists who, it was to be presumed, had no fight in them.

At any rate, Campo, with the reckless courage of his kind, felt confident that if he could
get Cosmo Versal, with the captain and Joseph Smith, out of the way, he could easily overmaster
the others. He had not much fear of the crew, for he knew that they were not armed, and he
had succeeded in winning over three of their number, the only ones he had thought at all dangerous,
because he had read their character. More than half the crew were employed about the engines
or on the animal deck, and most of the others were simply stewards who would not stand before
the pistols.

But, while the mutineers were hurriedly searching the corridors, Cosmo had run straight to
the bridge, where he found two of his men in charge, and whence he sent an electric call to
all the men employed in the navigation of the vessel. They came running from various directions,
but a dozen of them were caught in the passages by the mutineers and bound before they could
comprehend what had happened. Seven, however, succeeded in reaching the bridge, and among these
was Jim Waters.

"There's a mutiny," said Cosmo. "We've got to fight for our lives. Have you got arms?"

Not one had a weapon except Waters, who displayed a pistol half as long as his arm.

"Here, Peterson, take this," said Cosmo, handing a pistol to one of the two mariners who had
been on the bridge. "They will be here in a minute. If Campo had been a sailor, he'd have had
possession here the first thing. I'll turn off all lights."

With that he pressed a button which put out every lamp in the ark. But there was a full moon,
and they concealed themselves in the shadows.

Presently they heard the mutineers approaching, stumbling and cursing in the darkness. Cosmo
directed Peterson and Waters to place themselves at his side, and told them to fire when he
gave the word.

The next instant four men appeared crossing a moonlit place at the foot of the steps on the
outside of the dome.

"Wait," whispered Cosmo. "The pistols go at a pull. We can sweep down a dozen in ten seconds.
Let them all get in sight first."

Half a minute later there were twelve men climbing the steps and cautiously looking up.

"Fire!" cried Cosmo, setting the example, and three streams of blue flame pulsated from the
bridge. The sound of the bullets striking made more noise than the explosions.

Five or six of the men below fell, knocking down their comrades, and a loud curse burst from
the lips of Campo, who had a bullet through his arm.

The mutineers tumbled in a heap at the bottom, and instantly Cosmo, switching on all lights,
led the way down upon them. His men, who had no arms, seized anything they could get their
hands on that would serve to strike a blow, and followed him.

The conspirators were overwhelmed by the suddenness and fury of the attack.

Four of them were killed outright and five were wounded, one so severely that he survived only
a few hours.

Cosmo's quick and overwhelming victory was due to the fact that the mutineers, in mounting
the steps, could not see him and his men in the shadows, and when the automatic weapons, which
fired three shots per second by repeated pressure of the trigger, from a chamber containing
twenty-one cartridges, once opened on them they could do nothing in the hail of missiles, especially
when crowded together on the steps.

Campo was the only one who had any fight left in him. He struck Cosmo a blow on the head that
felled him, and then darted out upon the forepart of the dome, running on the cleats, and made
his way to the top.

Cosmo was on his feet in a second and rushing in pursuit, closely followed by Jim Waters. The
fugitive ran for the ratlines leading to the lookout on the central mast. He climbed them like
a squirrel, and the man in the cro'nest, amazed at the sight below him, stared at the approaching
mutineer, unable to utter a cry. Campo, who, as the moonbeams showed, now had a knife in his
teeth, rapidly approached, and the lookout shrank in terror. But before Campo could reach the
cro'nest, a blinding light dazzled his eyes. Cosmo had shouted an order to Peterson to run
back to the bridge and turn a searchlight upon the mast. Then Campo heard a thundering voice
below him:

"Take another step and I'll blow you into the sea!"

He glanced below, and saw Cosmo and Waters covering him with their pistols.

"Not another step!" roared Cosmo again. "Come down, and I'll give you a trial for your life."

Campo hesitated; but, seeing that he could be shot down, and finding a gleam of hope in Cosmo's
words, he turned and came slowly down. The moment he touched the bottom he was seized by Waters
and another man, and, under Cosmo's directions, his hands were bound behind his back.

Ten minutes later the members of the crew who had been caught by the mutineers in the gangways
were all unbound, and then Cosmo broke open the door of his cabin, the key having been lost
or thrown away by Campo, and the captain and Joseph Smith were released.

"Well, we've got 'em," said Cosmo grimly to the captain. "The mutiny is at an end, and there'll
never be another."

In the meantime many of the passengers had been aroused by the unaccustomed noises, although
the pistols had not made enough sound to be heard from the place where they were fired. Nightcapped
heads appeared on all sides, and some, in scanty clothing, were wandering in the passageways,
demanding what the trouble was. Cosmo, the captain, and Joseph Smith reassured them, saying
that there was no danger, and that something had happened which would be explained in the morning.

The prisoners--and the whole fifteen were finally captured--were locked up in a strong room,
and a surgeon was sent to dress their wounds. Cosmo Versal and the captain resumed their accustomed
places on the bridge, where they talked over the affair, and Cosmo explained his plans for
the morrow.

"I'll give him his trial, as I promised," Cosmo said in conclusion, "and you'll see what it
will be. Mutiny aboard this Ark!" And he struck the rail a violent blow with his fist.

The next morning directly after breakfast Cosmo called all passengers and crew into the grand
saloon, where many wondering looks were exchanged and many puzzling questions asked. When the
mutineers, with hands tied behind their backs and their many bandages on arms and legs, were
led in, exclamations of astonishment were heard, and some of the timid ones shrank away in fear.

Cosmo lost no time with preliminaries.

"These men," he said, taking his stand upon the platform, "have mutinied and tried to capture
the Ark. This fellow"--pointing to Campo--"was the concocter and leader of the plot. He intended
to throw me and Captain Arms, and all of you whom he did not wish to retain for his fiendish
purposes, into the sea. But Heaven has delivered them into our hands. I have promised them
a trial, and they shall have it. But it will be a trial in which justice shall not be cheated.
I find that a moral poison has stolen into this selected company, and I will eliminate it for
once and all."

The expressions of amazement and alarm redoubled in intensity.

"Professor Abel Able, Professor Jeremiah Moses, Sir Wilfrid Athelstone, Costake Theriade,"
Cosmo continued, "you will please come forward to act as members of the jury, of which I name
myself also a member. I shall be both judge and juror here, but I will hear what the rest of
you may have to say."

The men named stepped forward with some evidences of embarrassment, and Cosmo gravely gave
them seats beside him. Then he commanded that the prisoners should confront the jury, and,
heavily guarded, they were led to the front.

The brutishness of Campo's face had never struck the passengers who had seen him before as
it did now. He looked a veritable jailbird. At the same time he was evidently in terror for
his life. He muttered something which nobody understood.

Cosmo, who had informed himself of all the circumstances from Waters, and by privately questioning
the others, had satisfied himself that the entire scheme of the mutiny was of Campo's contrivance,
and that they had been led into it solely by his persuasion and threats, ordered Waters to
speak. The seaman told a straight story of what he had heard and seen. Cosmo himself then related
the events of the night. When he had finished he turned to Campo and demanded what he had to say.

Campo again muttered under his breath, but made no attempt to defend himself, simply saying:

"You promised me a trial."

"And haven't I given you a trial?" demanded Cosmo with flashing eyes. "You thought you held
the world in your grasp. It is I that hold it in my grasp, and you, too! You were going to
make us 'walk the plank.' It is you who are going to walk it! Is that the verdict?" (turning
to the four jurymen).

Some of them nodded, some simply stared at Cosmo, surprised by the vehemence of his manner.

"Enough," he said. "As to you," addressing the other prisoners, "you have had your lesson;
see that you don't forget it! Release them, and lead Campo to the promenade deck."

Nobody thought that Cosmo would literally execute his threat to make the mutineer walk the
plank, but, as he had told Captain Arms, they didn't know him. They were about to see that
in Cosmo Versal they had not only a prophet, a leader, and a judge, but an inexorable master also.

A plank was prepared and placed sloping from the rail.

"Walk!" said Cosmo firmly.

To everybody's surprise Campo, with blinded eyes, started immediately up the plank, followed
its full length with quick, unfaltering step, and plunging from the end, disappeared in the sea.

Many had turned away, unable to look, but many also saw the tragedy to the end. Then a profound
sigh was heard from the whole company of the spectators. As they turned away, talking in awed
voices, they felt, as never before, that the world had shrunk to the dimensions of the Ark,
and that Cosmo Versal was its dictator.

That same afternoon Cosmo arranged one of his "conferences," and nobody dared to be absent,
although all minds were yet too much excited to follow the discussions which few could understand.
But at length Costake Theriade concentrated their attention by a wild burst of eloquence about
the wonders of the inter-atomic forces. Sir Athelstone, unable to endure the applause that
greeted his rival, abruptly sprang to his feet, his round face red with anger, and shouted:

"I say, you know, this is twaddle!"

"Will the Englishman interrupt not?" cried Theriade, with his eyes ablaze. "Shall I project
not the Sir Englishman to the feeshes?"

He looked as if he were about to try to execute his threat, and Sir Athelstone assumed a boxing
attitude; but before hostilities could begin a loud shout from the deck, followed by cries
and exclamations, caused everybody to rush out of the saloon.

Those who succeeded in getting a glimpse over the shoulders of the members of the crew, who
were already lined up along the only portion of the bulwarks available for seeing the part
of the ocean on which attention seemed to be fixed, stared open-mouthed at a round-backed mass
of shining metal, with a circular aperture on the top, the cover of which was canted to one
side, and there stood a man, waving a gold-laced red kepi, and bowing and smiling with great
civility.

CHAPTER XVII

THE JULES VERNE

The swell of the sea caused the strange-looking craft to rise and sink a little, and sometimes
the water ran bubbling all around the low rim of the aperture, in the center of which the red-capped
man stood, resting on some invisible support, repeating his salutations and amicable smiles,
and balancing his body to the rocking of the waves with the unconscious skill of a sailor.

The Ark was running slowly, but it would very soon have left the stranger in its wake if he
had not also been in motion. It was evident that the object under his feet must be a submersible
vessel of some kind, although it was of a type which Captain Arms, standing beside Cosmo on
the bridge, declared that he had never set eyes on before. It lay so low in the water that
nothing could be seen of its motive machinery, but it kept its place alongside the Ark with
the ease of a dolphin, and gradually edged in closer and closer.

When it was so near that he could be heard speaking in a voice hardly raised above the ordinary
pitch, the man, first again lifting his cap with an easy gesture, addressed Cosmo Versal by
name, using the English language with a scarcely perceptible accent:

"M. Versal, I offer you my felicitations upon the magnificent appearance of your Ark, and I
present my compliments to the ladies and gentlemen of your company."

And then he bowed once more to the passengers, who were almost crowding each other over the
side in their eagerness to both see and hear.

"Thank you," responded Cosmo, "but who are you?"

"Capitaine Yves de Beauxchamps, of the French army."

"Where's the navy, then?" blurted out Captain Arms.

De Beauxchamps glanced at the speaker a little disdainfully, and then replied gravely:

"Alas! At the bottom of the sea--with all the other navies."

"And how have you escaped?" demanded Cosmo Versal.

"As you see, in a submersible."

"Can it be possible!" exclaimed Cosmo. "And you have been in the sea ever since the beginning
of the flood?"

"Since the first rise of the ocean on the coast at Brest."

"Have you no companions?"

"Six--in truth, seven."

"Astonishing!" said Cosmo Versal. "But I heard nothing of the preparation of a submersible.
In fact, the idea of such a thing never occurred to me. You must have made your preparations
secretly."

"We did. We did not share your certainty, M. Versal, concerning the arrival of a deluge. Even
when we embarked we were not sure that it would be more than an affair of the coasts."

"But you must be on the point of starvation by this time. The flood has only begun. This cessation
is but for a time, while we are passing a gap in the nebula. You will come aboard the Ark.
I had chosen my company, but your gallant escape, and the ability that you have shown, prove
that you are worthy to aid in the re-establishment of the race, and I have no doubt that your
companions are equally worthy."

The Frenchman bowed politely, and with a slight smile replied:

"I believe, M. Versal, that the Jules Verne is as safe and comfortable, and proportionately
as well provisioned, as your Ark."

"So you call it the Jules Verne?" returned Cosmo, smiling in his turn.

"We were proud to give it that name, and its conduct has proved that it is worthy of it."

"But you will surely come aboard and shake hands, and let us offer you a little hospitality,"
said Cosmo.

"I should be extremely happy to pay my compliments to the ladies," responded De Beauxchamps,
"but I must postpone that pleasure for the present. In the meantime, however, I should be glad
if you would lower a landing stage, and permit me to send aboard the seventh member of our
party, who, I venture to think, may find the Ark a more comfortable abode than our submersible."

"And who may that person be?"

"The King of England."

Exclamations of surprise and wonder were heard on all sides.

"Yes," resumed the Frenchman, "we picked up his majesty the first day after the deluge began
to descend from the sky."

"I will lower a ladder at once," Cosmo called out, and immediately ran down to the lowest deck,
commanding his men to make haste.

The Jules Verne was skillfully brought close up to the side of the Ark, so that the visible
part of her rounded back was nearly in contact with the bottom of the companion-ladder when
it had been lowered. The sea was so calm that there was little difficulty in executing this
maneuver. De Beauxchamps disappeared in the depths of the submersible, and after a few minutes
re-emerged into sight, supporting on his arm a stout, rather short man, whose face, it was
evident, had once been full and ruddy, but now it was pale and worn.

"It is he!" exclaimed an English member of Cosmo's company to some of his fellow-countrymen
who had forced their way to the front.

"It is the king!"

And then occurred a singular thing, inspired by the marvelous circumstances of this meeting
of the sovereign of a drowned kingdom, upon the bosom of the waters that had destroyed it,
with the mere handful which remained alive out of all the millions of his subjects.

These loyal Englishmen bared their heads (and there were three women among them) and sang,
with a pathos that surely the old hymn had never expressed before, their national anthem: "God
Save the King."

The effect was immense. Every head aboard the Ark was immediately uncovered. De Beauxchamps
removed his cap, and one or two bared heads could be seen peering out of the interior of the
submersible below him. As the king was steadied across to the bottom of the companion-ladder,
the voices of the singers rose louder, and many of the other passengers, moved by sympathy,
or carried away by epidemic feeling, joined in the singing. Never had any monarch a greeting
like that! Its recipient was moved to the depths of his soul, and but for the aid given him
would have been unable to ascend the swaying steps.

As he was assisted upon the deck, the song ceased and a great cheer broke forth. There were
tears in his eyes, and he trembled in every limb, when he returned the welcoming pressure of
Cosmo Versal's hand.

The moment he saw that the king was safely aboard the Ark, De Beauxchamps, with a farewell
salutation, disappeared into the interior of the Jules Verne, and the submersible sank out
of sight as gently as if it had been a huge fish that had come to the top of the sea to take
a look about.

After the sensation caused by the arrival of the English monarch aboard the Ark had somewhat
quieted down, and after his majesty had had an opportunity to recover himself, Cosmo Versal
invited his new guest to tell the story of his escape. They were seated in Cosmo's cabin, and
there were present Joseph Smith, Professor Jeremiah Moses, Professor Abel Able, and Amos Blank,
beside several other members of the ship's company, including two of the loyal Englishmen who
quite naturally had been the first to strike up the national anthem on seeing their rescued king.

Richard Edward, or Richard IV as he was officially entitled, was one of the best kings England
ever had. He was popular not only because of his almost democratic manners and the simplicity
of his life, but more because he was a great lover of peace. We have already seen how he was
chosen, solely on that account, to be of the number of the rulers invited to go in the Ark.
He had not even replied to Cosmo's invitation, but that was simply because, like everybody
about him in whom he placed confidence, he regarded Cosmo Versal as a mere mountebank, and
thought that there was no more danger of a flood that would cover the earth than of the fall
of the moon out of the sky.

Before responding to Cosmo's request he made a gracious reference to the indifference with
which he had formerly treated his present host.

"I am sorry, Mr. Versal," he said, with a deprecatory smile, "that I did not sooner recognize
the fact that your knowledge surpassed that of my scientific advisers."

"Your majesty was not alone," replied Cosmo gravely, turning with his finger a small globe
that stood on his desk. "From all these deep-sunken continents" (waving his hand toward the
globe), "if the voices once heard there could now speak, there would arise a mighty sound of
lament for that great error."

The king looked at him with an expression of surprise. He glanced from Cosmo's diminutive figure
to his great overhanging brow, marked with the lines of thought, and a look of instinctive
deference came into his eyes.

"But," continued Cosmo Versal, "it is bootless to speak of these things now. I beg that your
majesty will condescend to enlighten us concerning the fate of that great kingdom, of ancient
renown, over which you so worthily reigned."

An expression of deepest pain passed across the face of Richard Edward. For some moments he
remained buried in a mournful silence, and many sighs came from his breast. All looked at him
with profound commiseration. At last he raised his head, and said, sorrowfully and brokenly:

"My kingdom is drowned--my subjects have perished, almost to the last soul --my family, my
gracious consort, my children--all, all--gone!"

Here he broke down, and could speak no more. Not a word was heard, for a time in the room,
and the two Englishmen present wept with their unfortunate king.

Cosmo Versal was no less deeply moved than the others. He sat, for a while, in complete silence.
Then he arose and, going to the king, put his hand upon his shoulder, and talked to him long,
in a low, consoling voice. At last the broken-spirited monarch was able to suppress his emotions
sufficiently to recite, but with many interruptions while he remastered his feelings, the story
of his woes and of his marvelous escape.

"Sir Francis Brook," he said, "prepared a barge, when the water invaded London, and in that
barge we escaped--her royal majesty, our children, and a number of members of the royal household.
The barge was the only vessel of levium that existed in England. Sir Francis had furnished
and provisioned it well, and we did not think that it would be necessary to go farther than
to some high point in the interior. Sir Francis was of the opinion that Wales would afford
a secure refuge.

"It was a terrible thing to see the drowning of London, the sweeping of the awful bore that
came up the Thames from the sea, the shipping wrecked by the tearing waves, the swirl of the
fast-rising water round the immense basin in which the city lay, the downfall of the great
buildings-- Westminster Abbey was one of the first that succumbed--the overturned boats, and
even great vessels floating on their sides, or bottom up, the awful spectacle of the bodies
of the drowned tossing in the waves--all these sights were before our horrified eyes while
the vast eddy swept us round and round until the water rose so high that we were driven off
toward the southwest.

"That we should have escaped at all was a miracle of miracles. It was the wonderful buoyancy
of the levium barge that saved us. But the terrors of that scene can never fade from my memory.
And the fearful sufferings of the queen! And our children--but I cannot go on with this!"

"Calm yourself, your majesty," said Cosmo sympathetically. "The whole world has suffered with
you. If we are spared and are yet alive, it is through the hand of Providence--to which all
of us must bow."

"We must have passed over Surrey and Hampshire," the king resumed, "the invasion of the sea
having buried the hills."

"I am surprised at that," said Cosmo. "I did not think that the sea had anywhere attained so
great an elevation before the nebula condensed. At New York the complete drowning of the city
did not occur until the downpour from the sky began."

"Oh! that deluge from the heavens!" cried the king. "What we had suffered before seemed but
little in comparison. It came upon us after night; and the absolute darkness, the awful roaring,
the terrific force of the falling water, the sense of suffocation, the rapid filling of the
barge until the water was about our necks--these things drove us wild with despair.

"I tried to sustain my poor queen in my arms, but she struggled to seize the children and hold
them above the water, and in her efforts she escaped from my hands, and henceforth I could
find her no more. I stumbled about, but it was impossible to see; it was impossible to hear.
At last I fell unconscious face downward, as it afterward appeared, upon a kind of bench at
the rear end of the barge, which was covered with a narrow metallic roofing, and raised above
the level of the bulwarks. It was there that I had tried to shelter the queen and the children.

"In some way I must have become lodged there, under the awning, in such a
position that the pitching of the barge failed to throw me off. I never
regained consciousness until I heard a voice shouting in my ear, and felt
some one pulling me, and when I had recovered my senses, I found myself in
 the submersible."

"And all your companions were gone?" asked Cosmo, in a voice shaking with pity.

"Yes, oh, Lord! All! They had been swept overboard by the waves--and would that I had gone
with them!"

The poor king broke down again and sobbed. After a long pause Cosmo asked gently:

"Did the Frenchman tell you how he came upon the barge?"

"He said that in rising to the surface to find out the state of things there the submersible
came up directly under the barge, canting it in such a way that I was rolled out and he caught
me as I was swept close to the opening."

"But how was it that the downpour, entering the submersible, when the cover was removed, did
not fill it with water?"

"He had the cover so arranged that it served as an almost complete protection from the rain.
Some water did enter, but not much."

"A wonderful man, that Frenchman," said Cosmo. "He would be an acquisition for me. What did
he say his name was? Oh, yes, De Beauxchamps--I'll make a note of that. I shouldn't wonder
if we heard of him again."

Cosmo Versal was destined to encounter Yves de Beauxchamps and his wonderful submersible Jules
Verne sooner, and under more dramatic circumstances than he probably anticipated.

CHAPTER XVIII

NAVIGATING OVER DROWNED EUROPE

After the English king had so strangely become a member of its company the Ark resumed its
course in the direction of what had once been Europe. The spot where the meeting with the Jules
Verne had occurred was west of Cape Finisterre and, according to the calculations of Captain
Arms, in longitude fifteen degrees four minutes west; latitude forty-four degrees nine minutes
north.

Cosmo decided to run into the Bay of Biscay, skirting its southern coast in order to get a
view of the Cantabrian Mountains, many of whose peaks, he thought, ought still to lie well
above the level of the water.

"There are the Peaks of Europa," said Captain Arms, "which lie less than twenty miles directly
back from the coast. The highest point is eight thousand six hundred and seventy feet above
sea level, or what used to be sea level. We could get near enough to it, without any danger,
to see how high the water goes."

"Do you know the locality?" demanded Cosmo.

"As well as I know a compass-card!" exclaimed the captain. "I've seen the Europa peaks a hundred
times. I was wrecked once on that coast, and being of an inquiring disposition, I took the
opportunity to go up into the range and see the old mines--and a curious sight it was, too.
But the most curious sight of all was the shepherdesses of Tresvido, dressed just like the
men, in homespun breeches that never wore out. You'd meet 'em anywhere on the slopes of the
Pico del Ferro, cruising about with their flocks. And the cheese that they made! There never
was any such cheese!"

"Well, if you know the place so well," said Cosmo, "steer for it as fast as you can. I'm curious
to find out just how high this flood has gone, up to the present moment."

"Maybe we can rescue a shepherdess," returned the captain, chuckling. "She'd be an ornament
to your new Garden of Eden."

They kept on until, as they approached longitude five degrees west, they began to get glimpses
of the mountains of northern Spain. The coast was all under deep water, and also the foothills
and lower ranges, but some of the peaks could be made out far inland. At length, by cautious
navigation, Captain Arms got the vessel quite close to the old shore line of the Asturias,
and then he recognized the Europa peaks.

"There they are," he cried. "I'd know 'em if they'd emigrated to the middle of Africa. There's
the old Torre de Cerredo and the Pena Santa."

"How high did you say the main peak is?" asked Cosmo.

"She's eight thousand six hundred and seventy feet."

"From your knowledge of the coast, do you think it safe to run in closer?"

"Yes, if you're sure the water is not less than two thousand four hundred feet above the old
level we can get near enough to see the water-line on the peaks, from the cro'nest, which is
two hundred feet high."

"Go ahead, then."

They got closer than they had imagined possible, so close that, from the highest lookout on
the Ark, they were able with their telescopes to see very clearly where the water washed the
barren mountainsides at what seemed to be a stupendous elevation.

"I'm sorry about your shepherdesses," said Cosmo, smiling. "I don't think you'd find any there
to rescue if you could get to them. They must all have been lost in the torrents that poured
down those mountains."

"More's the pity," said Captain Arms. "That was a fine lot of women. There'll be no more cheese
like what they made at Tresvido."

Cosmo inquired if the captain's acquaintance with the topography of the range enabled him to
say how high that water was. The captain, after long inspection, declared that he felt sure
that it was not less than four thousand feet above the old coast line.

"Then," said Cosmo, "if you're right about the elevation of what you call the Torre de Cerredo
there must be four thousand six hundred and seventy feet of its upper part still out of water.
We'll see if that is so."

Cosmo made the measurements with instruments, and announced that the result showed the substantial
accuracy of Captain Arms's guess.

"I suspected as much," he muttered. "Those tremendous downpours, which may have been worse
elsewhere than where we encountered them, have increased the rise nearly seventy per cent,
above what my gages indicated. Now that I know this," he continued, addressing the captain:
"I'll change the course of the Ark. I'm anxious to get into the Indian Ocean as soon as possible.
It would be a great waste of time to go back in order to cross the Sahara, and with this increase
of level it isn't necessary. We'll just set out across southern France, keeping along north
of the Pyrenees, and so down into the region of the Mediterranean."

Captain Arms was astonished by the boldness of this suggestion, and at first he strongly objected
to their taking such a course.

"There's some pretty high ground in southern France," he said. "There's the Cevennes Mountains,
which approach a good long way toward the Pyrenees. Are you sure the depth of water is the
same everywhere?"

"What a question for an old mariner to ask!" returned Cosmo. "Don't you know that the level
of the sea is the same everywhere? The flood doesn't make any difference. It seeks its level
like any other water."

"But it may be risky steering between those mountains," persisted the captain.

"Nonsense! As long as the sky is clear you can get good observations, and you ought to be navigator
enough not to run on a mountain."

Cosmo Versal, as usual, was unalterable in his resolution--he only changed when he had reasons
of his own--and the course of the Ark was laid, accordingly, for the old French coast of the
Landes, so low that it was now covered with nearly four thousand feet of water. The feelings
of the passengers were deeply stirred when they learned that they were actually sailing over
buried Europe, and they gazed in astonishment at the water beneath them, peering down into
it as if they sought to discover the dreadful secrets that it hid, and talking excitedly in
a dozen languages.

The Ark progressed slowly, making not more than five or six knots, and on the second day after
they dropped the Penas de Europa they were passing along the northern flank of the Pyrenees
and over the basin in which had lain the beautiful city of Pau. The view of the Pyrenees from
this point had always been celebrated before the deluge as one of the most remarkable in the world.

Now it had lost its beauty, but gained in spectacular grandeur. All of France, as far as the
eye extended, was a sea, with long oceanic swells slowly undulating its surface. This sea abruptly
came to an end where it met the mountains, which formed for it a coast unlike any that the
hundreds of eyes which wonderingly surveyed it from the Ark had ever beheld.

Beyond the drowned vales and submerged ranges, which they knew lay beneath the watery floor,
before them, rose the heads of the Pic du Midi, the Pic de Ger, the Pic de Bigorre, the Massif
du Gabizos, the Pic Monne, and dozens of other famous eminences, towering in broken ranks like
the bearskins of a "forlorn hope," resisting to the last, in pictures of old-time battles.

Here, owing to the configuration of the drowned land it was possible for the Ark to approach
quite close to some of the wading mountains, and Cosmo seized the opportunity to make a new
measure of the height of the flood, which he found to be surely not less than his former estimates
had shown.

Surveying with telescopes the immense shoulders of the Monne, the Viscos, the d'Ardiden, and
the nearer heights, when they were floating above the valley of Lourdes, Cosmo and the captain
saw the terrible effects that had been produced by the torrents of rain, which had stripped
off the vegetation whose green robe had been the glory of the high Pyrenees on the French side.

Presently their attention was arrested by some moving objects, and at a second glance they
perceived that these were human beings.

"Good Heaven!" exclaimed Cosmo Versal. "There are survivors here. They have climbed the mountains,
and found shelter among the rocks. I should not have thought it possible."

"And there are women among them," said Captain Arms, lowering his telescope. "You will not
leave them there!"

"But what can I do?"

"Lower away the boats," replied the captain. "We've got plenty of them."

"There may be thousands there," returned Cosmo, musing. "I can't take them all."

"Then take as many as you can. By gad, sir, I'll not leave 'em!"

By this time some of the passengers who had powerful glasses had discovered the refugees on
the distant heights, and great excitement spread throughout the Ark. Cries arose from all parts
of the vessel:

"Rescue them!" "Go to their aid!" "Don't let them perish!"

Cosmo Versal was in a terrible quandary. He was by no means without humanity, and was capable
of deep and sympathetic feeling, as we have seen, but he already had as many persons in the
Ark as he thought ought to be taken, considering the provision that had been made, and, besides,
he could not throw off, at once, his original conviction of the necessity of carefully choosing
his companions. He remained for a long time buried in thought, while the captain fumed with
impatience and at last declared that if Cosmo did not give the order to lower away the boats
he would do it himself.

At length Cosmo, yielding rather to his own humane feelings than to the urging of others, consented
to make the experiment. Half a dozen levium launches were quickly lowered and sent off, while
the Ark, with slowed engines, remained describing a circle as near the mountains as it was
safe to go. Cosmo himself embarked in the leading boat.

The powerful motors of the launches carried them rapidly to the high slopes where the unfortunates
had sought refuge, and as they approached, and the poor fugitives saw that deliverance was
at hand, they began to shout, and cheer, and cry, and many of them fell on their knees upon
the rocks and stretched their hands toward the heavens.

The launches were compelled to move with great caution when they got near the ragged sides
of the submerged mountains (it was the Peyre Dufau on which the people had taken refuge), but
the men aboard them were determined to effect the rescue, and they regarded no peril too closely.
At last Cosmo's launch found a safe landing, and the others quickly followed it.

When Cosmo sprang out on a flat rock a crowd of men, women, and children, weeping, crying,
sobbing, and uttering prayers and blessings, instantly surrounded him. Some wrung his hands
in an ecstasy of joy, some embraced him, some dropped on their knees before him and sought
to kiss his hands. Cosmo could not restrain his tears, and the crews of the launches were equally
affected.

Many of these people could only speak the patois of the mountains, but some were refugees from
the resorts in the valleys below, and among these were two English tourists who had been caught
among the mountains by the sudden rising of the flood. They exhibited comparative sang froid,
and served as spokesmen for the others.

"Bah Jove!" exclaimed one of them, "but you're welcome, you know! This has been a demnition
close call! But what kind of a craft have you got out there?"

"I'm Cosmo Versal."

"Then that's the Ark we've heard about! 'Pon honor, I should have recognized you, for I've
seen your picture often enough. You've come to take us off, I suppose?"

"Certainly," replied Cosmo. "How many are there?"

"All that you see here; about a hundred, I should say. No doubt there are others on the mountains
round. There must have been a thousand of us when we started, but most of them perished, overcome
by the downpour, or swept away by the torrents. Lord Swansdown (indicating his companion, who
bowed gravely and stiffly) and myself--I'm Edward Whistlington--set out to walk over the Pyrenees
from end to end, after the excitement about the great darkness died out, and we got as far
as the Marbore, and then running down to Gavarnie we heard news of the sea rising, but we didn't
give too much credit to that, and afterward, keeping up in the heights, we didn't hear even
a rumor from the world below.

"The sky opened on us like a broadside from an aerial squadron, and how we ever managed to
get here I'm sure I can hardly tell. We were actually carried down the mountainsides by the
water, and how it failed to drown us will be an everlasting mystery. Somehow, we found ourselves
among these people, who were trying to go up, assuring us that there was nothing but water
below. And at last we discovered some sort of shelter here--and here we've been ever since."

"You cannot have had much to eat," said Cosmo.

"Not too much, I assure you," replied the Englishman, with a melancholy smile. "But these people
shared with us what little they had, or could find--anything and everything that was eatable.
They're a devilish fine lot, I tell you!

"When the terrible rain suddenly ceased and the sky cleared," he resumed, "we managed to get
dry, after a day or two, and since then we've been chewing leather until there isn't a shoe
or a belt left. We thought at first of trying to build rafts--but then where could we go? It
wasn't any use to sail out over a drowned country, with nothing in sight but the mountains
around us, which looked no better than the one we were barely existing on."

"Then I must get you aboard the Ark before you starve," said Cosmo.

"Many have died of starvation already," returned Whistlington. "You can't get us off a moment
too quick."

Cosmo Versal had by this time freed himself of every trace of the reluctance which he had at
first felt to increasing the size of his ship's company by adding recruits picked up at random.
His sympathies were thoroughly aroused, and while he hastened the loading and departure of
the launches, he asked the Englishmen who, with the impassive endurance of their race, stayed
behind to the last, whether they thought that there were other refugees on the mountains whom
they could reach.

"I dare say there are thousands of the poor devils on these peaks around us, wandering among
the rocks," replied Edward Whistlington, "but I fancy you couldn't reach 'em."

"If I see any I'll try," returned Cosmo, sweeping with his powerful telescope all the mountain
flanks within view.

At last, on the slopes of the lofty Mont Aigu across the submerged valley toward the south,
he caught sight of several human figures, one of which was plainly trying to make signals,
probably to attract attention from the Ark. Immediately, with the Englishmen and the remainder
of those who had been found on the Peyre Dufau, he hastened in his launch to the rescue.

They found four men and three women, who had escaped from the narrow valley containing the
bains de Gazost, and who were in the last stages of starvation. These were taken aboard, and
then, no more being in sight, Cosmo returned to the Ark, where the other launches had already
arrived.

And these were the last that were rescued from the mighty range of the Pyrenees, in whose deep
valleys had lain the famous resorts of Cauterets, the Eaux Bonnes, the Eaux Chaudes, the Bagnieres
de Luchon, the Bagnieres de Bigorre, and a score of others. No doubt, as the Englishmen had
said, thousands had managed to climb the mountains, but none could now be seen, and those who
may have been there were left to perish.

There was great excitement in the Ark on the arrival of the refugees. The passengers overwhelmed
them with kind attentions, and when they had sufficiently recovered, listened with wonder and
the deepest sympathy to their exciting tales of suffering and terror.

Lord Swansdown and Edward Whistlington were amazed to find their king aboard the Ark, and the
English members of the company soon formed a sort of family party, presided over by the unfortunate
monarch. The rescued persons numbered, in all, one hundred and six.

The voyage of the Ark was now resumed, skirting the Pyrenees, but at an increasing distance.
Finally Captain Arms announced that, according to his observations, they were passing over
the site of the ancient and populous city of Toulouse. This recalled to Cosmo Versal's memory
the beautiful scenes of the fair and rich land that lay so deep under the Ark, and he began
to talk with the captain about the glories of its history. 

But the wind still blowing hurricanes, they would not venture the loss of one of their boats:
and during the hot contentions between him, and the ungrateful chief of the vessel he had
preserved, they were driven out far to sea; whence his swimming arm, had he plunged into the
boisterous deep, could have been of no use to him.

Indignation, despair, overwhelmed him. None appeared to understand the nature of his feelings;
all pretending to wonder that a European born, should not be grateful
to any occasion that would carry him away from a savage country like
that.

In vain Laonce remonstrated; in vain he talked of his wife and children;
the captain and his sailors laughed, promised him better of both sorts
among his kindred whites; and when he cursed their hardened hearts
and cruel treachery, they laughed again, and left him to his misery.

At last, when the protracted hurricane subsided, and the vessel's log-book proved that she had
been driven several degrees leeward of the Society Isles, abandoned to a sullen despair, he
ceased to accuse or to reproach; he ceased even to speak on any subject, but cast himself into
his lonely berth during the day, that he might not be irritated to continued unavailing madness,
by the sight of the ingrates who had betrayed him.

To his straining eyes, nothing but the silvery line of the starlit sea was on that distant
horizon; but his heart's vision pierced farther, and he beheld the
sleepers in that home;--no, not the sleepers!

His disconsolate, his despairing wife, tearing her bright locks, and beating the tender bosom
he must no longer clasp to his own.

His children--"Oh! my babes!" cried he, and the cry of a father's heart for once pierced the obdurate
bosom of the captain, who, in that moment, had happened to come upon
the deck to examine the night.

To ease his Otaheitan benefactor, he declared he had thus carried him off, to share in the honour
of his expected discoveries. The unhappy chief, in then answering him, begged, that if he had,
indeed, any spark of honesty towards him, he would prove it, by obeying
his wish in one thing at least; and that was, to set him on shore
on the first European settlement they should fall in with.

"Do this," said he, "and I may yet believe you have honour.

For honour is a man's own act; a discovery is fortune's; and for
its advantages, did I stay, I should not have to thank you.

But I want none such. Set me on shore, and there I will follow my own destiny."
 What were the seamen about?"

"What were our seamen about?" returned Cosmo. "How many of them got off? I warned them that
ships would not do. But it was a bright idea of this De Beauxchamps and his friends to build
a submersible. It didn't occur to me, or I would have advised their construction everywhere
for small parties. But it would never have done for us. A submersible would not have been capacious
enough for the party I wanted to take."

By this time the visitors were aboard, and Cosmo and the others who could get near enough to
grasp them by the hand greeted them effusively. King Richard received De Beauxchamps with emotion,
and thanked him again and again for having saved his life; but, in the end, he covered his
face and said in a broken voice:

"M. De Beauxchamps, my gratitude to you is very deep--but, oh, the queen--the queen--and the
children! I should have done better to perish with them."

Cosmo and De Beauxchamps soothed him as well as they could, and the former led the way into
the grand saloon, in order that as many as possible might see and greet their visitors, who
had come so mysteriously up out of the sea.

All of the Frenchmen were as affable as their leader, and he presented them in turn. De Beauxchamps
conversed almost gaily with such of the ladies as had sufficient command of their feelings
to join the throng that pressed about him and his companions. He was deeply touched by the
story of the recent rescue of his countrymen from the Pyrenees, and he went among them, trying
to cheer them up, with the elan that no misfortune can eradicate from the Gallic nature.

At length Cosmo reminded him that he had said that he had some interesting news to communicate.

"Yes," said De Beauxchamps, "I have just come from a visit to Paris."

Exclamations of amazement and incredulity were heard on all sides.

"It is true," resumed the Frenchman, though now his voice lost all its gayety. "I had conceived
the project of such a visit before I met the Ark and transferred His Majesty, the King of England,
to your care. As soon as that was done I set out to make the attempt."

"But tell me first," interrupted Cosmo, "how you succeeded in finding the Ark again."

"That was not very difficult," replied De Beauxchamps, smiling. "Of course, it was to some
extent accidental, for I didn't know that you would be here, navigating over France; but I
had an idea that you might come this way if you had an intention of seeing what had happened
to Europe. It is my regular custom to rise frequently to the surface to take a look around
and make sure of my bearings, and you know that the Ark makes a pretty large point on the waters.
I saw it long before you caught sight of me."

"Very well," said Cosmo. "Please go on with your story. It must, indeed, be an extraordinary one."

"I was particularly desirous of seeing Paris again, deep as I knew her to lie under the waves,"
resumed De Beauxchamps, "because it was my home, and I had a house in the Champs Elysees. You
cannot divorce the heart of a Frenchman from his home, though you should bury it under twenty
oceans."

"Your family were lost?"

"Thank God, I had no family. If I had had they would be with me. My companions are all like
myself in that respect. We have lost many friends, but no near relatives. As I was saying,
I started for France, poor drowned France, as soon as I left you. With the powerful searchlight
of the Jules Verne I could feel confident of avoiding obstructions; and, besides, I knew very
closely the height to which the flood had risen, and having the topography of my country at
my fingers' ends, as does every officer of the army, I was able to calculate the depth at which
we should run in order to avoid the hilltops."

"But surely," said Cosmo, "it is impossible--at least, it seems so to me--that you can descend
to any great depth--the pressure must be tremendous a few hundred feet down, to say nothing
of possible thousands."

"All that," replied the Frenchman, "has been provided for. You probably do not know to what
extent we had carried experiments in France on the deep submersion of submarines before their
general abandonment when they were prohibited by international agreement in war. I was myself
perhaps the leader in those investigations, and in the construction of the Jules Verne I took
pains to improve on all that had hitherto been done.

"Without going into any description of my devices, I may simply remind you nature has pointed
out ways of avoiding the consequences of the inconceivable pressures which calculation indicates
at depths of a kilometer, or more, in her construction of the deep-sea fishes. It was by a
study of them that I arrived at the secret of both penetrating to depths that would theoretically
have seemed entirely impossible and of remaining at such depths."

"Marvelous!" exclaimed Cosmo; "marvelous beyond belief!"

"I may add," continued De Beauxchamps, smiling at the effect that his words had had upon the
mind of the renowned Cosmo Versal, "that the peculiar properties of levium, which you so wisely
chose for your Ark, aided me in quite a different way. But I must return to my story.

"We passed over the coast of France near the point where I knew lay the mouth of the Loire.
I could have found my way by means of the compass sufficiently well; but since the sky was
clear I frequently came to the surface in order, for greater certainty, to obtain sights of
the sun and stars.

"I dropped down at Tours and at Blois, and we plainly saw the walls of the old chateaux in
the gleam of the searchlight below us. There were monsters of the deep, such as the eye of
man never beheld, swimming slowly about them, many of them throwing a strange luminosity into
the water from their phosphorescent organs, as if they were inspecting these novelties of the
sea-bottom.

"Arrived over Orleans, we turned in the direction of Paris. As we approached the site of the
city I sank the submersible until we almost touched the higher hills. My searchlight is so
arranged that it can be directed almost every way--up, down, to this side, and to that--and
we swept it round us in every direction.

"The light readily penetrated the water and revealed sights which I have no power to describe,
and some--reminders of the immense population of human beings which had there met its end--which
I would not describe if I could. To see a drowned face suddenly appear outside the window,
almost within touch--ah, that was too horrible!

"We passed over Versailles, with the old palace still almost intact; over Sevres, with its
porcelain manufactory yet in part standing--the tidal waves that had come up the river from
the sea evidently caused much destruction just before the downpour began--and finally we 'entered'
Paris.

"We could see the embankments of the Seine beneath us as we passed up its course from the Point
du Jour. From the site of the Champ de Mars I turned northward in search of the older part
of the Champs Elysees, where my house was, and we came upon the great Arc de Triomphe, which,
you remember, dates from the time of Napoleon.

"It was apparently uninjured, even the huge bronze groups remaining in their places, and the
searchlight, traversing its face, fell upon the heroic group on the east facade of the Marseillaise.
You must have seen that, M. Versal?"

"Yes, many a time," Cosmo replied. "The fury in the face of the female figure representing
the spirit of war, chanting the 'Marseillaise,' and, sword in hand, sweeping over the heads
of the soldiers, is the most terrible thing of human making that I ever looked upon."

"It was not so terrible as another thing that our startled eyes beheld there," said De Beauxchamps.
"Coiled round the upper part of the arch, with its head resting directly upon that of the figure
of which you speak, was a monstrous, ribbon-shaped creature, whose flat, reddish body, at least
a meter in width and apparently thirty meters long, and bordered with a sort of floating frill
of a pinkish color, undulated with a motion that turned us sick at heart.

"But the head was the most awful object that the fancy of a madman could conceive. There were
two great round, projecting eyes, encircled with what I suppose must have been phosphorescent
organs, which spread around in the water a green light that was absolutely horrifying.

"I turned away the searchlight, and the eyes of that creature stared straight at us with a
dreadful, stony look; and then the effect of the phosphorescence, heightened by the absence
of the greater light, became more terrible than before. We were unmanned, and I hardly had
nerve enough to turn the submersible away and hurry from the neighborhood."

"I had not supposed," said Cosmo, "that creatures of such a size could live in the deeper parts
of the sea."

"I know," returned De Beauxchamps, "that many have thought that the abysmal creatures were
generally of small size, but they knew nothing about it. What could one have expected to learn
of the secrets of life in the ocean depths from the small creatures which alone the trawls
brought to the surface? The great monsters could not be captured in that way. But we have seen
them--seen them taking possession of beautiful, drowned Paris--and we know what they are."

The fascinated hearers who had crowded about to listen to the narrative of De Beauxchamps shuddered
at this part of it, and some of the women turned away with exclamations of horror.

"I see that I am drawing my picture in too fearful colors," he said, "and I shall refrain from
telling of the other inhabitants of the abyss that we found in possession of what I, as a Frenchman,
must call the most splendid capital that the world contained.

"Oh, to think that all that beauty, all those great palaces filled with the master-works of
art, all those proud architectural piles, all that scene of the most joyous life that the earth
contained, is now become the dwelling-place of the terrible fauna of the deep, creatures that
never saw the sun; that never felt the transforming force of the evolution which had made the
face of the globe so glorious; that never quitted their abysmal homes until this awful flood
spread their empire over the whole earth!"

There was a period of profound silence while De Beauxchamps's face worked spasmodically under
the influence of emotions, the sight of which would alone have sufficed to convince his hearers
of the truth of what he had been telling. Finally Cosmo Versal, breaking the silence, asked:

"Did you find your home?"

"Yes. It was there. I found it out. I illuminated it with the searchlight. I gazed into the
broken windows, trying to peer through the watery medium that filled and darkened the interior.
The roof was broken, but the walls were intact. I thought of the happy, happy years that I
had passed there when I had a family, and when Paris was an Eden, the sunshine of the world.
And then I wished to see no more, and we rose out of the midst of that sunken city and sought
the daylight far above.

"I had thought to tell you," he continued, after a pause, "of the condition in which we found
the great monuments of the city--of the Pantheon, yet standing on its hill with its roof crushed
in; of Notre Dame--a wreck, but the towers still standing proudly; of the old palace of the
Louvre, through whose broken roofs and walls we caught glimpses of the treasures washed by
the water within--but I find that I have not courage to go on. I had imagined that it would
be a relief to speak of these things, but I do not find it so."

"After leaving Paris, then you made no other explorations?" said Cosmo.

"None. I should have had no heart for more. I had seen enough. And yet I do not regret that
I went there. I should never have been content not to have seen my beautiful city once more,
even lying in her watery shroud. I loved her living; I have seen her dead. It is finished.
What more is there, M. Versal?" With a sudden change of manner: "You have predicted all this,
and perhaps you know more. Where do we go to die?"

"We shall not die," replied Cosmo Versal forcefully. "The Ark and your Jules Verne will save us."

"To what purpose?" demanded the Frenchman, his animation all gone. "Can there be any pleasure
in floating upon or beneath the waves that cover a lost world? Is a brief prolongation of such
a life worth the effort of grasping for?"

"Yes," said Cosmo with still greater energy. "We may still save the race. I have chosen most
of my companions in the Ark for that purpose. Not only may we save the race of man, but we
may lead it up upon a higher plane; we may apply the principles of eugenics as they have never
yet been applied. You, M. De Beauxchamps, have shown that you are of the stock that is required
for the regeneration of the world."

"But where can the world be regenerated?" asked De Beauxchamps with a bitter laugh. "There
is nothing left but mountain-tops."

"Even they will be covered," said Cosmo.

"Do you mean that the deluge has not yet reached its height?"

"Certainly it has not. We are in an open space in the enveloping nebula. After a little we
shall enter the nucleus, and then will come the worst."

"And yet you talk of saving the race!" exclaimed the Frenchman with another bitter laugh.

"I do," replied Cosmo, "and it will be done."

"But how?"

"Through the re-emergence of land."

"That recalls our former conversation," put in Professor Abel Able. "It appears to me impossible
that, when the earth is once covered with a universal ocean, it can ever disappear or materially
lower its level. Geological ages would be required for the level of the water to be lowered
even a few feet by the escape of vapor into space."

"No," returned Cosmo Versal, "I have demonstrated that that idea is wrong. Under the immense
pressure of an ocean rising six miles above the ancient sea level the water will rapidly be
forced into the interstices of the crust, and thus a material reduction of level will be produced
within a few years--five at the most. That will give us a foothold. I have no doubt that even
now the water around us is slightly lowering through that cause.

"But in itself that will not be sufficient. I have gone all over this ground in my original
calculations. The intrusion of the immense mass of ocean water into the interior of the crust
of the earth will result in a grand geological upheaval. The lands will re-emerge above the
new sea level as they emerged above the former one through the internal stresses of the globe."

The scientific men present listened with breathless interest, but some of them with many incredulous
shakings of the head.

"You must be aware," continued Cosmo, addressing them particularly, "that it has been demonstrated
that the continents and the great mountain ranges are buoyed up, and, as it were, are floating
somewhat like slags on the internal magma. The mean density of the crust is less under the
land and the mountains than under the old sea-beds. This is especially true of the Himalayan
region.

"That uplift is probably the most recent of all, and it is there, where at present the highest
land of the globe exists, that I expect that the new upheaval will be most strongly manifested.
It is for that reason, and not merely because it is now the highest part of the earth, that
I am going with the Ark to Asia."

"But," said Professor Jeremiah Moses, "the upheaval of which you speak may produce a complete
revolution in the surface of the earth, and if new lands are upthrust they may appear at unexpected
points."

"Not at all," returned Cosmo. "The tectonic features of the globe were fixed at the beginning.
As Asia has hitherto been the highest and the greatest mass of land, it will continue to be
so in the future. It is there, believe me, that we shall replant the seed of humanity."

"Do you not think," asked Professor Alexander Jones, "that there will be a tremendous outburst
of volcanic energy, if such upheavals occur, and may not that render the re-emerging lands
uninhabitable?"

"No doubt," Cosmo replied, "every form of plutonic energy will be immensely re-enforced. You
remember the recent outburst of all the volcanoes when the sea burst over the borders of the
continents. But these forces will be mainly expended in an effort of uplifting. Unquestionably
there will be great volcanic spasms, but they will not prevent the occupation of the broadening
areas of land which will not be thus affected."

"Upon these lands," exclaimed Sir Wilfrid Athelstone, in a loud voice, "I will develop life
from the barren minerals of the crust. The age of chemical parthenogenesis will then have dawned
upon the earth, and man will have become a creator."

"Will the Sir Englishman give me room for a word!" cried Costake Theriade, raising his tall
form on his toes and agitating his arms in the air. "He will create not anything! It is I that
will unloose the energies of the atoms of matter and make of the new man a new god."

Cosmo Versal quieted the incipient outbreak of his jealous "speculative geniuses," and the
discussion of his theory was continued for some time. At length De Beauxchamps, shrugging his
shoulders, exclaimed, with a return of his habitual gayety:

"Tres bien! Vive the world of Cosmo Versal! I salute the new Eve that is to come!"

CHAPTER XX

THE ADVENTURES IN COLORADO

When Professor Pludder, the President, and their companions on the aero-raft, saw the three
men on the bluff motioning and shouting to them, they immediately sought the means of bringing
their craft to land. This did not prove to be exceedingly difficult, for there was a convenient
rock with deep water around it on which they could disembark.

The men ran down to meet them, and to help them ashore, exhibiting the utmost astonishment
at seeing them there.

"Whar in creation did you come from?" exclaimed one, giving the professor a pull up the bank.
"Mebbe you're Cosmo Versal, and that's yer Ark."

"I'm Professor Pludder, and this is the President of the United States."

"The President of the Un----See here, stranger, I'll take considerable from you, considering
the fix yer in, but you don't want to go too far."

"It's true," asseverated the professor. "This gentleman is the President, and we've escaped
from Washington. Please help the ladies."

"I'll help the ladies all right, but I'm blamed if I believe yer yarn. How'd you git here?
You couldn't hev floated across the continent on that thing."

"We came on the raft that you see," interrupted Mr. Samson. "We left the Appalachian Mountains
two weeks ago."

"Well, by--it must be true!" muttered the man. "They couldn't hev come from anywhar else in
that direction. I reckon the hull blamed continent is under water."

"So it is," said Professor Pludder, "and we made for Colorado, knowing that it was the only
land left above the flood."

All finally got upon the bluff, rejoiced to feel solid ground once more beneath their feet.
But it was a desolate prospect that they saw before them. The face of the land had been scoured
and gullied by the pouring waters, the vegetation had been stripped off, except where in hollows
it had been covered with new-formed lakes, some of which had drained off after the downpour
ceased, the water finding its way into the enveloping sea.

They asked the three men what had become of the other inhabitants, and whether there was any
shelter at hand.

"We've be'n wiped out," said the original spokesman. "Cosmo Versal has done a pretty clean
job with his flood. There's a kind of a cover that we three hev built, a ways back yonder,
out o' timber o' one kind and another that was lodged about. But it wouldn't amount to much
if there was another cloudburst. It wouldn't stand a minute. It's good to sleep in."

"Are you the only survivors in this region?" asked the President.

"I reckon you see all thet's left of us. The' ain't one out o' a hundred that's left alive
in these parts."

"What became of them?"

"Swept off!" replied the man, with an expressive gesture--"and drownded right out under the sky."

"And how did you and your companions escape?"

"By gitting up amongst some rocks that was higher'n the average."

"How did you manage to live--what did you have to eat?"

"We didn't eat much--we didn't hev much time to think o' eatin'. We had one hoss with us, and
he served, when his time come. After the sky cleared we skirmished about and dug up something
that we could manage to eat, lodged in gullies where the water had washed together what had
been in houses and cellars. We've got a gun and a little ammunition, and once in a while we
could kill an animal that had contrived to escape somehow."

"And you think that there are no other human beings left alive anywhere around here?"

"I know th' ain't. The's probably some up in the foothills, and around the Pike. They had a
better chance to git among rocks. We hed jest made up our minds to go hunting for 'em when
we ketched sight o' you, and then we concluded to stay and see who you was."

"I'm surprised that you didn't go sooner."

"We couldn't. There was a roarin' torrent coming down from the mountains that cut us off. It's
only last night that it stopped."

"Well, it's evident that we cannot stay here," said Professor Pludder. "We must go with these
men toward the mountains. Let us take what's left of the compressed provisions out of the raft,
and then we'll eat a good meal and be off."

The three men were invited to share the repast, and they ate with an appetite that would have
amused their hosts if they had not been so anxious to reserve as much as possible of their
provisions for future necessities.

The meal finished, they started off, their new friends aiding to carry provisions, and what
little extra clothing there was. The aspect of the country they traversed affrighted them.
Here and there were partially demolished houses or farm structures, or cellars, choked with
debris of what had once been houses.

Farm implements and machinery were scattered about and half buried in the torrent-furrowed
land. In the wreck of one considerable village through which they passed they found a stone
church, and several stone houses of considerable pretensions, standing almost intact as to
walls, but with roofs, doors, and windows smashed and torn off.

It was evident that this place, which lay in a depression of the land, had been buried by the
rushing water as high as high as the top stories of the buildings. From some of the sights
that they saw they shrank away, and afterward tried to forget them.

Owing to the presence of the women and children their progress was slower than it might overwise
have been. They had great difficulty in crossing the course of the torrent which their companions
had described as cutting them off from the foothills of the Pike's Peak range.

The water had washed out a veritable canon, a hundred or more feet deep in places, and with
ragged, precipitous walls and banks, which they had to descend on one side and ascend on the
other. Here the skill and local knowledge of their three new-found friends stood them in good
stead. There was yet enough water in the bottom of the great gully to compel them to wade,
carrying the women and children.

But, just before nightfall, they succeeded in reaching a range of rocky heights, where they
determined to pass the night. They managed to make a fire with brush that had been swept down
the mountain flanks and had remained wedged in the rocks, and thus they dried their soaked
garments, and were able to do some cooking, and to have a blaze to give them a little heat
during the night, for the air turned cold after the disappearance of the sun.

When the others had sunk into an uneasy slumber, the President and Professor Pludder sat long,
replenishing the fire, and talking of what would be their future course.

"I think," said the professor, "that we shall find a considerable population alive among the
mountains. There is nothing in Colorado below four thousand feet elevation, and not much below
five thousand. The great inner 'parks' were probably turned into lakes, but they will drain
off, as the land around us here has done already.

"Those who managed to find places of comparative shelter will now descend into the level lands
and try to hunt up the sites of their homes. If only some plants and grain have been preserved
they can, after a fashion, begin to cultivate the soil."

"But there is no soil," said the President, shuddering at the recollection of the devastation
he had witnessed. "It has all been washed off."

"No," replied the professor, "there's yet a good deal in the low places, where the water rested."

"But it is now the middle of winter."

"Reckoned by the almanac it is, but you see that the temperature is that of summer, and has
been such for months. I think that this is due in some way to the influence of the nebula,
although I cannot account for it. At any rate it will be possible to plant and sow.

"The whole body of the atmosphere having been raised four thousand feet, the atmospheric conditions
here now are virtually the same as at the former sea-level. If we can find the people and reassure
them, we must take the lead in restoring the land to fertility, and also in the reconstruction
of homes."

"Suppose the flood should recommence?"

"There is no likelihood of it."

"Then," said the President, putting his face between his hands and gazing sadly into the fire,
"here is all that remains of the mightiest nation of the world, the richest, the most populous--and
we are to build up out of this remnant a new fatherland."

"This is not the only remnant," said Professor Pludder. "One-quarter, at least, of the area
of the United States is still above sea-level. Think of Arizona, New Mexico, Utah, Nevada,
the larger part of California, Wyoming, a part of Montana, two-thirds of Idaho, a half of Oregon
and Washington--all above the critical level of four thousand feet, and all except the steepest
moutainsides can be reclaimed.

"There is hope for our country yet. Remember that the climate of this entire region will now
be changed, since the barometric isobars have been lifted up, and the line of thirty inches
pressure now meets the edge of the Colorado plateau. There may be a corresponding change in
the rainfall and in all the conditions of culture and fertility."

"Yes," sighed the President, "but I cannot, I cannot withdraw my mind from the thought of the
millions, millions, millions who have perished!"

"I do not say that we should forget them," replied Professor Pludder; "Heaven forbid! But I
do say that we must give our attention to those that remain, and turn our faces steadily toward
the future."

"Abiel," returned the President, pressing the professor's hand, "you are right. My confidence
in you was shaken, but now I follow you again."

Thus they talked until midnight, and then got a little rest with the others. They were up and
off at break of day, and as they mounted higher they began to encounter immense rocks that
had come tumbling down from above.

"How can you talk of people escaping toward the mountains if they had to encounter these?"
demanded the President.

"Some of these rocks have undoubtedly been brought down by the torrents," Professor Pludder
replied, "but I believe that the greater number fell earlier, during the earthquakes that accompanied
the first invasions of the sea."

"But those earthquakes may have continued all through."

"I do not think so. We have felt no trembling of the earth. I believe that the convulsions
lasted only for a brief period, while the rocks were yielding to the pressure along the old
sea-coast. After a little the crust below adjusted itself to the new conditions. And even if
the rocks fell while people were trying to escape from the flood below, they must, like the
water, have followed the gorges and hollow places, while the fugitives would, of course, keep
upon the ridges."

Whatever perils they may have encountered, people had certainly escaped as the professor had
averred. When the party, in the middle of the day, were seated at their lunch, on an elevated
point from which they could see far over the strange ocean that they had left behind them,
while the southern buttresses of Pike's Peak rose steeply toward the north, they discovered
the first evidence of the existence of refugees in the mountains. This was a smoke rising over
an intervening ridge, which their new companions declared could be due to nothing less than
a large camp-fire.

They hastened to finish their meal, and then climbed the ridge. As soon as they were upon it
they found themselves looking down into a broad, shallow canon, where there were nearly twenty
rudely constructed cabins, with a huge fire blazing in the midst of the place, and half a dozen
red-shirted men busy about it, evidently occupied in the preparation of the dinner of a large
party.

Their friends recognized an acquaintance in one of the men below and hailed him with delight.
Instantly men, women, and children came running out of the huts to look at them, and as they
descended into this improvised village they were received with a hospitality that was almost
hilarious.

The refugees consisted of persons who had escaped from the lower lands in the immediate vicinity,
and they were struck dumb when told that they were entertaining the President of the United
States and his family.

The entire history of their adventures was related on both sides. The refugees told how, at
the commencement of the great rain, when it became evident that the water would inundate their
farms and buildings, they loaded themselves with as many provisions as they could carry, and,
in spite of the suffocating downpour that filled the air, managed to fight their way to the
ridge overhanging the deep cut in which they were now encamped.

Hardly a quarter of those who started arrived in safety. They sheltered themselves to the number
of about thirty, in a huge cavern, which faced down the mountain, and had a slightly upward
sloping floor, so that the water did not enter. Here, by careful economy, they were able to
eke out their provisions until the sky cleared, after which the men, being used to outdoor
labor and hunting, contrived to supply the wants of the forlorn little community.

They managed to kill a few animals, and found the bodies of others recently killed, or drowned.
Later they descended into the lowlands, as the water ran off, and searching among the ruins
of their houses found some remnants of supplies in the cellars and about the foundations of
the barns. They were preparing to go down in a body and seek to re-establish themselves on
the sites of their old homes, when the President's party came upon them.

The meeting with these refugees was but the first of a series of similar encounters on the
way along the eastern face of the Pike's Peak range. In the aggregate they met several hundred
survivors who had established themselves on the site of Colorado Springs, where a large number
of houses, standing on the higher ground, had escaped.

They had been soaked with water, descending through the shattered roofs and broken windows,
and pouring into the basements and cellars. The fugitives came from all directions, some from
the caverns on the mountains, and some from the rocks toward the north and east. A considerable
number asserted that they had found refuge in the Garden of the Gods.

As near as could be estimated, about a quarter of the population remained alive.

The strong points of Professor Pludder now, once more, came out conspicuously. He proved himself
an admirable organizer. He explored all the country round, and enheartened everybody, setting
them to work to repair the damage as much as possible.

Some horses and cattle were found which, following their instincts, had managed to escape the
flood. In the houses and other buildings yet standing a great deal of food and other supplies
were discovered, so that there was no danger of a famine. As he had anticipated, the soil had
not all been washed away from the flat land, and he advised the inhabitants to plant quick-growing
seeds at once.

He utilized the horses to send couriers in all directions, some going even as far as Denver.
Everywhere virtually the same conditions were found--many had escaped and were alive, only
needing the guidance of a quicker intelligence, and this was supplied by the advice which the
professor instructed his envoys to spread among the people. He sought to cheer them still more
by the information that the President was among them, and looking out for their welfare.

One thing which his couriers at last began to report to him was a cause of surprise. They said
that the level of the water was rapidly falling. Some who had gone far toward the east declared
that it had gone down hundreds of feet. But the professor reflected that this was impossible,
because evaporation could not account for it, and he could not persuade himself that so much
water could have found its way into the interior of the crust.

He concluded that his informants had allowed their hopes to affect their eyesight, and, strong
as usual in his professional dogmas, he made no personal examination. Besides, Professor Pludder
was beginning to be shaken in his first belief that all trouble from the nebula was at an end.
Once having been forced to accept the hypothesis that a watery nebula had met the earth, he
began to reflect that they might not be through with it.

In any event, he deemed it wise to prepare for it if it should come back. Accordingly he advised
that the population that remained should concentrate in the stronger houses, built of stone,
and that every effort should be made to strengthen them further and to make the roofs as solid
as possible. He also directed that no houses should be occupied that were not situated on high
ground, surrounded with slopes that would give ready flow to the water in case the deluging
rain should recommence.

He had no fixed conviction that it would recommence, but he was uneasy, owing to his reflections,
and wished to be on the safe side. He sent similar instructions as far as his horsemen could reach.

The wisdom of his doubts became manifest about two weeks after the arrival of the President's
party. Without warning the sky, which had been perfectly blue and cloudless for a month, turned
a sickly yellow. Then mists hid the head, and in a little while the entire outline of Pike's
Peak, and after that a heavy rain began.

Terror instantly seized the people, and at first nobody ventured out of doors. But as time
went on and the rain did not assume the proportions of the former debacle, although it was
very heavy and continuous, hope revived. Everybody was on the watch for a sudden clearing up.

Instead of clearing, however, the rain became very irregular, gushing at times in torrents
which were even worse than the original downpour, but these tremendous gushes were of brief
duration, so that the water had an opportunity to run off the higher ground before the next
downpour occurred.

This went on for a week, and then the people were terrified at finding that water was pouring
up through all the depressions of the land, cutting off the highlands from Pike's Peak with
an arm of the sea. It was evident that the flood had been rapidly rising, and if it should
rise but little higher they would be caught in a trap. The inland sea, it was clear, had now
invaded the whole of Colorado to the feet of the mountains, and was creeping up on them.

Just at this time a series of earthquakes began. They were not severe, but were continuous.
The ground cracked open in places, and some houses were overturned, but there were no wall-shattering
shocks--only a continual and dreadful trembling, accompanied by awful subterranean sounds.

This terrible state of affairs had lasted for a day before a remarkable discovery was made,
which filled many hearts with joy, although it seemed to puzzle Professor Pludder as much as
it rejoiced him.

The new advance of the sea was arrested! There could be no question of that, for too many had
anxiously noted the points to which the water had attained.

We have said that Professor Pludder was puzzled. He was seeking, in his mind, a connection
between the seismic tremors and the cessation of the advance of the sea. Inasmuch as the downpour
continued, the flood ought still to rise.

He rejected as soon as it occurred to him the idea that the earth could be drinking up the
waters as fast as they fell, and that the trembling was an accompaniment of this gigantic deglutition.

Sitting in a room with the President and other members of the party from Washington, he remained
buried in his thoughts, answering inquiries only in monosyllables. Presently he opened his
eyes very wide and a long-drawn "A-ah!" came from his mouth. Then he sprang to his feet and
cried out, but only as if uttering a thought aloud to himself, the strange word:

"Batholite!"

CHAPTER XXI

"THE FATHER OF HORROR"

At the time when the President of the United States and his companions were beginning to discover
the refugees around Pike's Peak, Cosmo Versal's Ark accompanied by the Jules Verne, whose commander
had decided to remain in touch with his friends, was crossing the submerged hills and valleys
of Languedoc under a sun as brilliant as that which had once made them a land of gold.

De Beauxchamps remained aboard the Ark much of the time. Cosmo liked to have him, with himself
and Captain Arms, on the bridge, because there they could talk freely about their plans and
prospects, and the Frenchman was a most entertaining companion.

Meanwhile, the passengers in the saloons and on the promenade decks formed little knots and
coteries for conversation, for reading, and for mutual diversion, or strolled about from side
to side, watching the endless expanse of waters for the occasional appearance of some inhabitant
of the deep that had wandered over the new ocean's bottom.

These animals seemed to be coming to the surface to get bearings. Every such incident reminded
the spectators of what lay beneath the waves, and led them to think and talk of the awful fate
that had overwhelmed their fellow men, until the spirits of the most careless were subdued
by the pervading melancholy.

King Richard, strangely enough, had taken a liking for Amos Blank, who was frequently asked
to join the small and somewhat exclusive circle of compatriots that continually surrounded
the fallen monarch. The billionaire and the king often leaned elbow to elbow over the rail,
and put their heads companionably together while pointing out some object on the sea. Lord
Swansdown felt painfully cut by this, but, of course, he could offer no objection.

Finally Cosmo invited the king to come upon the bridge, from which passengers were generally
excluded, and the king insisted that Blank should go, too. Cosmo consented, for Blank seemed
to him to have become quite a changed man, and he found him sometimes full of practical suggestions.

So it happened that when Captain Arms announced that the Ark was passing over the ancient city
of Carcassonne, Cosmo, the king, De Beauxchamps, Amos Blank, and the captain were all together
on the bridge. When Captain Arms mentioned their location, King Richard became very thoughtful.
After a time he said musingly:

"Ah! how all these names, Toulouse, Carcassonne, Languedoc, bring back to me the memory of
my namesake of olden times, Richard I. of England. This, over which we are floating, was the
land of the Troubadours, and Richard was the very Prince of Troubadours. With all his faults
England never had a king like him!"

"Knowing your devotion to peace, which was the reason why I wished you to be of the original
company in the Ark, I am surprised to hear you say that," said Cosmo.

"Ah!" returned the King, "But Coeur de Lion was a true Englishman, even in his love of fighting.
What would he say if he knew where England lies to-day? What would he say if he knew the awful
fate that has come upon this fair and pleasant land, from whose poets and singers he learned
the art of minstrelsy?"

"He would say, 'Do not despair,'" replied Cosmo. "' Show the courage of an Englishman, and
fight for your race if you cannot for your country.'"

"But may not England, may not all these lands, emerge again from the floods?" asked the king.

"Not in our time, not in our children's time," said Cosmo Versal, thoughtfully shaking his head.

"In the remote future, yes--but I cannot tell how remote. Tibet was once an appanage of your
crown, before China taught the West what war meant, and in Tibet you may help to found a new
empire, but I must tell you that it will not resemble the empires of the past. Democracy will
be its corner stone, and science its law."

"Then I devote myself to democracy and science," responded King Richard.

"Good! Admirable!" exclaimed Amos Blank and De Beauxchamps simultaneously, while Captain Arms
would probably have patted the king on the back had not his attention, together with that of
the others, been distracted by a huge whale blowing almost directly in the course of the Ark.

"Blessed if I ever expected to see a sight like that in these parts!" exclaimed the captain.
"This lifting the ocean up into the sky is upsetting the order of nature. I'd as soon expect
to sight a cachalot on top of the Rocky Mountains."

"They'll be there, too, before long," said Cosmo.

"I wonder what he's looking for," continued Captain Arms. "He must have come down from the
north. He couldn't have got in through the Pyrenees or the Sierra Nevadas. He's just navigated
right over the whole country straight down from the English Channel."

The whale sounded at the approach of the Ark, but in a little while he was blowing again off
toward the south, and then the passengers caught sight of him, and there was great excitement.

He seemed to be of enormous size, and he sent his fountain to an extraordinary height in the
air. On he went, appearing and disappearing, steering direct for Africa, until, with glasses,
they could see his white plume blowing on the very edge of the horizon.

Not even the reflection that they themselves were sailing over Europe impressed some of the
passengers with so vivid a sense of their situation as the sight of this monstrous inhabitant
of the ocean taking a view of his new domain.

At night Cosmo continued the concerts and the presentation of the Shakespearian dramas, and
for an hour each afternoon he had a "conference" in the saloon, at which Theriade and Sir Athelstone
were almost the sole performers.

Their disputes, and Cosmo's efforts to keep the peace, amused for a while, but at length the
audiences diminished until Cosmo, with his constant companions, the Frenchman, the king, Amos
Blank, the three professors from Washington, and a few other savants were the only listeners.

But the music and the plays always drew immensely.

Joseph Smith was kept busy most of the time in Cosmo's cabin, copying plans for the regeneration
of mankind.

When they knew that they had finally left the borders of France and were sailing above the
Mediterranean Sea, it became necessary to lay their course with considerable care. Cosmo decided
that the only safe plan would be to run south of Sardinia, and then keep along between Sicily
and Tunis, and so on toward lower Egypt.

There he intended to seek a way over the mountains north of the Sinai peninsula into the Syrian
desert, from which he could reach the ancient valley of the Euphrates and the Persian Gulf.
He would then pass down the Arabian Sea, swing round India and Ceylon, and, by way of the Bay
of Bengal and the plains of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, approach the Himalayas.

Captain Arms was rather inclined to follow the Gulf of Suez and the depression of the Red Sea,
but Cosmo was afraid that they would have difficulty in getting the Ark safely through between
the Mt. Sinai peaks and the Jebel Gharib range.

"Well, you're the commodore," said the captain at the end of the discussion, "but hang me if
I'd not rather follow a sea, where I know the courses, than go navigating over mountains and
deserts in the land of Shinar. We'll land on top of Jerusalem yet, you'll see!"

Feeling sure of plenty of water under keel, they now made better speed and De Beauxchamps retired
into the Jules Verne, and detached it from the Ark, finding that he could distance the latter
easily with the submersible running just beneath the surface of the water.

"Come up to blow, and take a look around from the bridge, once in a while," the captain called
out to him as he disappeared and the cover closed over him. The Jules Verne immediately sank
out of sight.

They passed round Sardinia, and between the old African coast and Sicily, and were approaching
the Malta Channel when their attention was drawn to a vast smoke far off toward the north.

"It's Etna in eruption," said Cosmo to the captain.

"A magnificent sight!" exclaimed King Richard, who happened to be on the bridge.

"Yes, and I'd like to see it nearer," remarked Cosmo, as a wonderful column of smoke, as black
as ink, seemed to shoot up to the very zenith.

"You'd better keep away," Captain Arms said warningly. "There's no good comes of fooling round
volcanoes in a ship."

"Oh, it's safe enough," returned Cosmo. "We can run right over the southeastern corner of Sicily
and get as near as we like. There is nothing higher than about three thousand feet in that
part of the island, so we'll have a thousand feet to spare."

"But maybe the water has lowered."

"Not more than a foot or two," said Cosmo. "Go ahead."

The captain plainly didn't fancy the adventure, but he obeyed orders, and the Ark's nose was
turned northward, to the delight of many of the passengers who had become greatly interested
when they learned that the tremendous smoke that they saw came from Mount Etna.

Some of them were nervous, but the more adventurous spirits heartily applauded Cosmo Versal's
design to give them a closer view of so extraordinary a spectacle. Even from their present
distance the sight was one that might have filled them with terror if they had not already
been through adventures which had hardened their nerves. The smoke was truly terrific in appearance.

It did not spread low over the sea, but rose in an almost vertical column, widening out at
a height of several miles, until it seemed to canopy the whole sky toward the north.

It could be seen spinning in immense rolling masses, the outer parts of which were turned by
the sunshine to a dingy brown color, while the main stem of the column, rising directly from
the great crater, was of pitchy blackness.

An awful roaring was audible, sending a shiver through the Ark. At the bottom of the mass of
smoke, through which gleams of fire were seen to shoot as they drew nearer, appeared the huge
conical form of the mountain, whose dark bulk still rose nearly seven thousand feet above the
sea that covered the great, beautiful, and historic island beneath it.

They had got within about twenty miles of the base of the mountain, when a shout was heard
by those on the bridge, and Cosmo and the captain, looking for its source, saw the Jules Verne,
risen to the surface a little to starboard, and De Beauxchamps excitedly signaling to them.
They just made out the words, "Sheer off!" when the Ark, with a groaning sound, took ground,
and they were almost precipitated over the rail of the bridge.

"Aground again, by ----!" exclaimed Captain Arms, instantly signaling all astern. "I told you
not to go fooling round a volcano."

"This beats me!" cried Cosmo Versal. "I wonder if the island has begun to rise."

"More likely the sea has begun to fall," growled Captain Arms.

"Do you know where we are?" asked Cosmo.

"We can't be anywhere but on the top of Monte Lauro," replied the captain.

"But that's only three thousand feet high."

"It's exactly three thousand two hundred and thirty feet," said the captain. "I haven't navigated
the old Mediterranean a hundred times for nothing."

"But even then we should have near seven hundred and fifty feet to spare, allowing for the
draft of the Ark, and a slight subsidence of the water."

"Well, you haven't allowed enough, that's plain," said the captain.

"But it's impossible that the flood can have subsided more than seven hundred feet already."

"I don't care how impossible it is--here we are! We're stuck on a mountain-top, and if we don't
leave our bones on it I'm a porpoise."

By this time the Jules Verne was alongside, and De Beauxchamps shouted up:

"I was running twenty feet under water, keeping along with the Ark, when my light suddenly
revealed the mountain ahead. I hurried up and tried to warn you, but it was too late."

"Can't you go down and see where we're fast?" asked Cosmo.

"Certainly; that's just what I was about to propose," replied the Frenchman, and immediately
the submersible disappeared.

After a long time, during which Cosmo succeeded in allaying the fears of his passengers, the
submersible reappeared, and De Beauxchamps made his report. He said that the Ark was fast near
the bow on a bed of shelly limestone.

He thought that by using the utmost force of the Jules Verne, whose engines were very powerful,
in pushing the Ark, combined with the backing of her own engines, she might be got off.

"Hurry up, then, and get to work," cried Captain Arms. "This flood is on the ebb, and a few
hours more will find us stuck here like a ray with his saw in a whale's back."

De Beauxchamps's plan was immediately adopted. The Jules Verne descended, and pushed with all
her force, while the engines of the Ark were reversed, and within fifteen minutes they were
once more afloat.

Without waiting for a suggestion from Cosmo Versal, the Frenchman carefully inspected with
his searchlight the bottom of the Ark where she had struck, and when he came to the surface
he was able to report that no serious damage had resulted.

"There's no hole," he said, "only a slight denting of one of the plates, which will not amount
to anything."

Cosmo, however, was not content until he had made a careful inspection by opening some of the
manholes in the inner skin of the vessel. He found no cause for anxiety, and in an hour the
Ark resumed its voyage eastward, passing over the site of ancient Syracuse.

By this time a change of the wind had sent the smoke from Etna in their direction, and now
it lay thick upon the water, and rendered it, for a while, impossible to see twenty fathoms
from the bridge.

"It's old Etna's dying salute," said Cosmo. "He won't have his head above water much longer."

"But the flood is going down," exclaimed Captain Arms.

"Yes, and that puzzles me. There must have been an enormous absorption of water into the interior,
far greater than I ever imagined possible. But wait until the nucleus of the nebula strikes
us! In the meantime, this lowering of the water renders it necessary for us to make haste,
or we may not get over the mountains round Suez before the downpour recommences."

As soon as they escaped from the smoke of Etna they ran full speed ahead again, and, keeping
well south of Crete, at length, one morning they found themselves in the latitude and longitude
of Alexandria.

The weather was still superb, and Cosmo was very desirous of getting a line on the present
height of the water. He thought that he could make a fair estimate of this from the known elevation
of the mountains about Sinai. Accordingly they steered in that direction, and on the way passed
directly over the site of Cairo.

Then the thought of the pyramids came to them all, and De Beauxchamps, who had come aboard
the Ark, and who was always moved by sentimental considerations, proposed that they should
spend a few hours here, while he descended to inspect the condition in which the flood had
left those mighty monuments.

Cosmo not only consented to this, but he even offered to be a member of the party. The Frenchman
was only too glad to have his company. Cosmo Versal descended into the submersible after instructing
Captain Arms to hover in the neighborhood.

The passengers and crew of the Ark, with expressions of anxiety that would have pleased their
subject if he had heard them, watched the Jules Verne disappear into the depths beneath.

The submersible was gone so long that the anxiety of those aboard the Ark deepened into alarm,
and finally became almost panic. They had never before known how much they depended upon Cosmo
Versal.

He was their only reliance, their only hope. You know how purple--violet, really--those desert
evenings are. There was violet stretching away as far as I could see, from the faint violet
at my stirrups to the deep, almost black violet of the horizon. Way off to the north I could
make out the shadow of some big hills that had been ahead of me all
day.

The town, what there was of it, lay in a little gully. Along its single street there were
a few lights shining like small yellow flowers. I asked my way of a Mexican, and he showed
me up to where the Whitneys--that name will do as well as any--lived,
in a decent enough sort of bungalow, it would seem, above the gully.

He left me there, and I went forward and rapped at the door. Light shone from between the cracks
of a near-by shutter, and I could hear voices inside--a man's voice
mostly, hoarse and high-pitched.

Then a Chinaman opened the door for me and I had a look inside, into a big living-room beyond.
It was civilized all right enough, pleasantly so to a man stepping out of two days of desert
and Mexican adobes.

At a glance I saw the rugs on the polished floor, and the Navajo blankets about, and a big table
in the centre with a shaded lamp and magazines in rows; but the man
in riding-clothes standing before the empty fire-place wasn't civilized
at all, at least not at that moment.

I couldn't see the woman, only the top of her head above the back of a big chair, but as I
came in I heard her say, 'Hush!--Jim!--please!' and I noticed that what I could see of her hair
was of that fine true gold you so seldom find.

The man stopped in the middle of a sentence and swayed on his feet, then he looked over at
me and came toward me with a sort of bulldog, inquiring look.

He was a big, red-faced, blond chap, about forty, I should say, who might once have been handsome.
He wasn't now, and it didn't add to his beauty that he was quite
obviously fairly drunk.

'Well?' he said, and blocked my way.

"'I'm a friend of Henry Martin's,' I answered.
 But, nevertheless, the light was
so powerful that they could see distinctly at a distance of several rods.

The pyramid appeared to have been but little injured, although the tremendous tidal wave that
had swept up the Nile during the invasion of the sea before the downpour began had scooped
out the sand down to the bed-rock on all sides.

Finding nothing of particular interest in a circuit of the pyramid, they turned in the direction
of the Great Sphinx.

This, too, had been excavated to its base, and it now stood up to its full height, and a terrible
expression seemed to have come into its enigmatic features.

Cosmo wished to get a close look at it, and they ran the submersible into actual contact with
the forepart of the gigantic statue, just under the mighty chin.

While they paused there, gazing out of the front window of the vessel, a bursting sound was
heard, followed by a loud crash, and the Jules Verne was shaken from stem to stern. Every man
of them threw himself against the sides of the vessel, for the sound came from overhead, and
they had an instinctive notion that the roof was being crushed down upon them.

A second resounding crash was heard, shaking them like an earthquake, and the little vessel
rolled partly over upon its side.

"We are lost!" cried De Beauxchamps. "The Sphinx is falling upon us! We shall be buried alive
here!"

A third crash came over their heads, and the submersible seemed to sink beneath them as if
seeking to avoid the fearful blows that were rained upon its roof.

Still, the stout curved ceiling, strongly braced within, did not yield, although they saw,
with affright, that it was bulged inward, and some of the braces were torn from their places.
But no water came in.

Stunned by the suddenness of the accident, for a few moments they did nothing but cling to
such supports as were within their reach, expecting that another blow would either force the
vessel completely over or break the roof in.

But complete silence now reigned, and the missiles from above ceased to strike the submersible.
The searchlight continued to beam out of the fore end of the vessel, and following its broad
ray with their eyes, they uttered one cry of mingled amazement and fear, and then stared without
a word at such a spectacle as the wildest imagination could not have pictured.

The front of the Sphinx had disappeared, and the light, penetrating beyond the place where
it had stood, streamed upon the face and breast of an enormous black figure, seated on a kind
of throne, and staring into their faces with flaming eyes which at once fascinated and terrified
them.

To their startled imaginations the eyes seemed to roll in their sockets, and flashes of fire
to dart from them. Their expression was menacing and terrifying beyond belief. At the same
time the aspect of the face was so majestic that they cowered before it.

The cheekbones were high, massive, and polished until they shone in the light; the nose and
chin were powerful in their contours; and the brow wore an intimidating frown. It seemed to
the awed onlookers as if they had sacrilegiously burst into the sanctuary of an offended god.

But, after a minute or two of stupefaction, they thought again of the desperateness of their
situation, and turned from staring at the strange idol to consider what they should do.

The fact that no water was finding its way into the submersible somewhat reassured them, but
the question now arose whether it could be withdrawn from its position.

They had no doubt that the front of the Sphinx, saturated by the water after the thousands
of years that it had stood there, exposed to the desiccating influences of the sun and the
desert sands, had suddenly disintegrated, and fallen upon them, pinning their vessel fast under
the fragments of the huge head.

De Beauxchamps tried the engines and found that they had no effect in moving the Jules Verne.
He tried again and again by reversing to disengage the vessel, but it would not stir. Then
they debated the only other means of escape.

"Although I have levium life-suits," said the Frenchman, "and although the top of the Jules
Verne can probably be opened, for the door seems not to have been touched, yet the instant
it is removed the water will rush in, and it will be impossible to pump out the vessel."

"Are your life-suits so arranged that they will permit of moving the limbs?" demanded Cosmo.

"Certainly they are."

"And can they be weighted so as to remain at the bottom?"

"They are arranged for that," responded De Beauxchamps.

"And can the weights be detached by the inmates without permitting the entrance of water?"

"It can be done, although a very little water might enter during the operation."

"Then," said Cosmo, "let us put on the suits, open the door, take out the ballast so that,
if released, the submersible will rise to the surface through its own buoyancy, and then see
if we cannot loosen the vessel from outside."

It was a suggestion whose boldness made even the owner and constructor of the Jules Verne stare
for a moment, but evidently it was the only possible way in which the vessel might be saved;
and knowing that, in case of failure, they could themselves float to the surface after removing
the weights from the bottom of the suits, they unanimously decided to try Cosmo Versal's plan.

It was terribly hard work getting the ballast out of the submersible, working as they had to
do under water, which rushed in as soon as the door was opened, and in their awkward suits,
which were provided with apparatus for renewing the supply of oxygen; but at last they succeeded.

Then they clambered outside, and labored desperately to release the vessel from the huge fragments
of stone that pinned it down. Finally, exhausted by their efforts, and unable to make any impression,
they gave up.

De Beauxchamps approached Cosmo and motioned to him that it was time to ascend to the surface
and leave the Jules Verne to her fate. But Cosmo signaled back that he wished first to examine
more closely the strange statue that was gazing upon them in the still unextinguished beam
of the searchlight with what they might now have regarded as a look of mockery.

The others, accordingly, waited while Cosmo Versal, greatly impeded by his extraordinary garment,
clambered up to the front of the figure. There he saw something which redoubled his amazement.

On the broad breast he saw a representation of a world overwhelmed with a deluge and encircling
it was what he instantly concluded to be the picture of a nebula. Underneath, in ancient Egyptian
hieroglyphics, with which Cosmo was familiar, was an inscription in letters of gold, which
could only be translated thus:

  I Come Again--
  At the End of Time.

"Great Heavens!" he said to himself. "It is a prophecy of the Second Deluge!"

He continued to gaze, amazed, at the figure and the inscription, until De Beauxchamps clambered
to his side and indicated to him that it was necessary that they should ascend without further
delay, showing him by signs that the air-renewing apparatus would give out.

With a last lingering look at the figure, Cosmo imitated the others by detaching the weights
from below his feet, and a minute later they were all shooting rapidly toward the surface of
the sea, De Beauxchamps, as he afterwards declared, uttering a prayer for the repose of the
Jules Verne.

The imaginary time which Amos Blank had fixed as the limit set by Cosmo for the return from
the depths was nearly gone, and he was beginning to cast about for some other invention to
quiet the rising fears of the passengers, when a form became visible which made the eyes of
Captain Arms, the first to catch sight of it, start from their sockets. He rubbed them, and
looked again--but there it was!

A huge head, human in outline, with bulging, glassy eyes, popped suddenly out of the depths,
followed by the upper part of a gigantic form which was no less suggestive of a monstrous man,
and which immediately began to wave its arms!

Before the captain could collect his senses another shot to the surface, and then another and
another, until there were seven of them floating and awkwardly gesticulating within a radius
of a hundred fathoms on the starboard side of the vessel.

The whole series of apparitions did not occupy more than a quarter of a minute in making their
appearance.

By the time the last had sprung into sight Captain Arms had recovered his wits, and he shouted
an order to lower a boat, at the same time running down from the bridge to superintend the
operation. Many of the crew and passengers had in the meantime seen the strange objects, and
they were thrown into a state of uncontrollable excitement.

"It's them!" shouted the captain over his shoulder, in response to a hundred inquiries all
put at once, and forgetting his grammar in the excitement. "They've come up in diving-suits."

Amos Blank comprehended the situation at once; and while the captain was getting out the boat,
he explained matters to the crowd.

"The submersible must be lost," he said quietly, "but the men have escaped, so there is no
great harm done. It does great credit to that Frenchman that he should have been prepared for
such an emergency. Those are levium suits, and I've no doubt that he has got hydrogen somewhere
inside to increase their buoyancy."

Within a quarter of an hour all the seven had been picked up by the boat, and it returned to
the Ark. The strange forms were lifted aboard with tackle to save time; and as the first one
reached the deck, it staggered about on its big limbs for a moment.

Then the metallic head opened, and the features of De Beauxchamps were revealed.

Before anybody could assist him he had freed himself from the suit, and immediately he began
to aid the others. In ten minutes they all stood safe and sound before the astonished eyes
of the spectators. Cosmo had suffered from the confinement, and he sank upon a seat, but De
Beauxchamps seemed to be the most affected. With downcast look he said, sadly shaking his head:

"The poor Jules Verne! I shall never see her again."

"What has happened?" demanded Captain Arms.

"It was the Father of Horror," muttered Cosmo Versal.

"The Father of Horror--what's that?"

"Why, the Great Sphinx," returned Cosmo, gradually recovering his breath. "Didn't you know
that that was what the Arabs always called the Sphinx?

"It was that which fell upon the submersible--split right open and dropped its great chin upon
us as we were sailing round it, and pinned us fast. But the sight that we saw when the Sphinx
fell apart! Tell them, De Beauxchamps."

The Frenchman took up the narrative, while, with breathless attention, passengers and crew
crowded about to listen to his tale.

"When we got to the bottom," he said, "we first inspected the Great Pyramid, going all round
it with our searchlight. It was in good condition, although the tide that had come up the Nile
with the invasion of the sea had washed away the sands to a great depth all about. When we
had completed the circuit of the pyramid, we saw the Sphinx, which had been excavated by the
water so that it stood up to its full height.

"We ran close around it, and when we were under the chin the whole thing, saturated by the
water, which no doubt caused an expansion within--you know how many thousand years the gigantic
idol had been sun-dried--dropped apart.

"The submersible was caught by the falling mass, and partly crushed. We labored for hours and
hours to release the vessel, but there was little that we could do. It almost broke my heart
to think of leaving the Jules Verne there, but it had to be done.

"At last we put on the levium floating-suits, opened the cover at the top, and came to the
surface. The last thing I saw was the searchlight, still burning, and illuminating the most
marvelous spectacle that human eyes ever gazed upon."

"Oh, what was it? What was it?" demanded a score of voices in chorus.

"It is impossible to describe it. It was the secret of old Egypt revealed at last--at the end
of the world!"

"But what was it like?"

"Like a glimpse into the remotest corridors of time," interposed Cosmo Versal, with a curious
look in his eyes.

"Some of you may have heard that long ago holes were driven through the Sphinx in the hope
of discovering something hidden inside, but they missed the secret. The old god kept it well
until his form fell apart. We were pinned so close to it that we could not help seeing it,
even in the excitement of our situation.

"It had always been supposed that the Sphinx was the symbol of something--it was, and more
than a symbol! The explorers away back in the nineteenth century who thought that they had
found something mysterious in the Great Pyramid went wide of the mark when they neglected the
Sphinx."

"But what did you see?"

"We saw the prophecy of the Second Deluge," said Cosmo, rising to his feet, his piercing eyes
aflame. "In the heart of the huge mass, approachable, no doubt, by some concealed passage in
the rock beneath, known only to the priests, stood a gigantic idol, carved out of black marble.

"It had enormous eyes of some gem that blazed in the electric beam from the searchlight, with
huge golden ears and beard, and on its breast was a representation of a drowning world, with
a great nebula sweeping over it."

"It might have been a history instead of a prophecy," suggested one of the listening savants.
"Perhaps it only told what had once happened."

"No," replied Cosmo, shaking his big head. "It was a prophecy. Under it, in ancient Egyptian
hieroglyphics, which I recognized, was an inscription which could only be translated by the
words, 'I come again--at the end of time!'"

There was a quality in Cosmo Versal's voice which made the hearers shudder with horror.

"Yes," he added. "It comes again! The prophecy was hidden, but science had its means of revelation,
too, if the world would but have listened to its voice. Even without the prophecy I have saved
the flower of mankind."

CHAPTER XXII

THE TERRIBLE NUCLEUS ARRIVES

When the company in the Ark had recovered from the astonishment produced by the narratives
of De Beauxchamps and Cosmo Versal, and particularly the vivid description given by the latter
of the strange idol concealed in the breast of the "Father of Horror," and the inferences which
he drew concerning its prophetic character, the question again arose as to their future course.

Captain Arms was still for undertaking to follow the trough of the Red Sea, but Cosmo declared
that this course would be doubly dangerous now that the water had lowered and that they no
longer had the Jules Verne to act as a submarine scout, warning them of hidden perils.

They must now go by their own soundings, and this would be especially dangerous in the close
neighborhood of half-submerged mountains, whose buttresses and foothills might rise suddenly
out of the depths with slopes so steep that the lead would afford no certain guidance.

It was first necessary to learn if possible the actual height of the water, and whether it
was still subsiding. It was partly for this purpose that they had passed over Egypt instead
of keeping directly on toward the coast of lower Palestine.

But now Cosmo abandoned his purpose of taking his measurement by the aid of Mount Sinai or
some of its neighboring peaks, on account of the dangerous character of that rugged region.
If they had been furnished with deep-sea sounding apparatus they might have made a direct measurement
of the depth in Egypt, but that was one of the few things which Cosmo Versal had overlooked
in furnishing the Ark, and such an operation could not be undertaken.

He discovered that there was a mountain north of the Gulf of Akaba having an elevation of 3,450
feet, and since this was 220 feet higher than Monte Lauro, in Sicily, on which the Ark had
grounded, he counted on it as a gage which would serve his purpose.

So they passed almost directly over Suez, and about 120 miles farther east they found the mountain
they sought, rising to the west of the Wadi el Arabia, a continuation of the depression at
whose deepest point lay the famous "Dead Sea," so often spoken of in the books of former times.

Here Cosmo was able to make a very accurate estimate from the height of the peak above the
water, and he was gratified to find that the recession had not continued. The level of the
water appeared to be exactly the same as when they made their unfortunate excursion in the
direction of smoking Etna.

"It's all right," he said to Captain Arms. "We can get over into the Syrian desert without
much danger, although we must go slowly and carefully until we are well past these ranges that
come down from the direction of the Dead Sea. After that I do not see that there is anything
in our way until we reach the ancient plains of Babylon."

King Richard, who was full of the history of the Crusades, as well as of Bible narratives,
wished to have the Ark turn northward, so that they might sail over Jerusalem, and up the Valley
of the Jordan within sight of Mount Hermon and the Lebanon range.

Cosmo had had enough of that kind of adventure, while Captain Arms declared that he would resign
on the spot if there was to be any more "fool navigating on mountain tops." But there were
many persons in the Ark who would have been very glad if King Richard's suggestion had been
carried out.

The feelings of some were deeply stirred when they learned that they were now crossing the
lower end of Palestine, and that the scenes of so many incidents in the history of Abraham,
Moses, and Joshua lay buried beneath the blue water, whose almost motionless surface was marked
with a broad trail of foaming bubbles in the wake of the immense vessel.

Cosmo greatly regretted the absence of the submersible when they were picking their way over
this perilous region, but they encountered no real difficulty, and at length found, by celestial
observations, that they were beyond all dangers and safely arrived over the deeply submerged
desert.

They kept on for several days toward the rising sun, and then Captain Arms announced that the
observations showed that they were over the site of Babylon.

This happened just at the time of the midday dinner, and over the dessert Cosmo seized the
opportunity to make a little speech, which could be heard by all in the saloon.

"We are now arrived," he said, "over the very spot where the descendants of Noah are said to
have erected a tower, known as the Tower of Babel, and which they intended to build so high
that it would afford a secure refuge in case there should be another deluge.

"How vain were such expectations, if they were ever entertained, is sufficiently shown by the
fact that, at this moment, the water rolls more than three thousand feet deep over the place
where they put their tower, and before the present deluge is over it will be thirty thousand
feet deep.

"More than half a mile beneath our feet lie the broad plains of Chaldea, where tradition asserts
that the study of astronomy began. It was Berosus, a Chaldean, who predicted that there would
come a second deluge.

"It occurs to me, since seeing the astounding spectacle disclosed by the falling apart of the
Sphinx, that these people may have had an infinitely more profound knowledge of the secrets
of the heavens than tradition has assigned to them.

"On the breast of the statue in the Sphinx was the figure of a crowned man, encircled by a
huge ring, and having behind him the form of a boat containing two other human figures. The
boat was represented as floating in a flood of waters.

"Now, this corresponds exactly with figures that have been found among the most ancient ruins
in Chaldea. I regard that ring as symbolical of a nebula enveloping the earth, and I think
that the second deluge, which we have lived to see, was foretold here thousands of years ago."

"Who foretold it first, then, the people who placed the statue in the Sphinx, or these astronomers
of Chaldea?" asked Professor Abel Able.

"I believe," Cosmo replied, "that the knowledge originated here, beneath us, and that it was
afterward conveyed to the Egyptians, who embodied it in their great symbolical god."

"Are we to understand," demanded Professor Jeremiah Moses, "that this figure was all that you
saw on the breast of the statue, and that you simply inferred that the ring represented a nebula?"

"Not at all," Cosmo replied. "The principal representation was that of a world overwhelmed
with a flood, and of a nebula descending upon it."

"How do you know that it was intended for a nebula?"

"Because it had the aspect of one, and it was clearly shown to be descending from the high
heavens."

"A cloud," suggested Professor Moses.

"No, not a cloud. Mark this, which is a marvel in itself: It had the form of a spiral nebula.
It was unmistakable."

At this point the discussion was interrupted by a call to Cosmo Versal from Captain Arms on
the bridge. He hastily left the table and ascended to the captain's side.

He did not need to be told what to look for. Off in the north the sky had become a solid black
mass, veined with the fiercest lightning. The pealing of the thunder came in a continuous roll,
which soon grew so loud as to shake the Ark.

"Up with the side-plates!" shouted Cosmo, setting twenty bells ringing at once. "Close tight
every opening! Screw down the port shutters!"

The crew of the Ark was, in a few seconds, running to and fro, executing the orders that came
in swift succession from the commander's bridge, and the passengers were thrown into wild commotion.
But nobody had time to attend to them.

"It is upon us!" yelled Cosmo in the captain's ear, for the uproar had become deafening. "The
nucleus is here!"

The open promenade decks had not yet all been turned into inner corridors when the downpour
began upon the Ark. A great deal of water found its way aboard, but the men worked with a will,
as fearful for their own safety as for that of others, and in a little while everything had
been made snug and tight.

In a short time a tremendous tempest was blowing, the wind coming from the north, and the Ark,
notwithstanding her immense breadth of beam, was canted over to leeward at an alarming angle.
On the larboard side the waves washed to the top of the great elliptical dome and broke over
it, and their thundering blows shook the vessel to her center, causing many to believe that
she was about to founder.

The disorder was frightful. Men and women were flung about like tops, and no one could keep
his feet. Crash after crash, that could be heard amid the howling of the storm, the battering
of the waves, and the awful roar of the deluge descending on the roof, told the fate of the
tableware and dishes that had been hastily left in the big dining saloon.

Chairs recently occupied by the passengers on what had been the promenade decks, and from which
they had so serenely, if often sorrowfully, looked over the broad, peaceful surface of the
waters, were now darting, rolling, tumbling, and banging about, intermingled with rugs, hats,
coats, and other abandoned articles of clothing.

The pitching and rolling of the Ark were so much worse than they had been during the first
days of the cataclysm, that Cosmo became very solicitous about his collection of animals.

He hurried down to the animal deck, and found, indeed, that things were in a lamentable shape.
The trained keepers were themselves so much at the mercy of the storm that they had had all
they could do to save themselves from being trampled to death by the frightened beasts.

The animals had been furnished with separate pens, but during the long continued calm the keepers,
for the sake of giving their charges greater freedom and better air, had allowed many of them
to go at large in the broad central space around which the pens were placed, and the tempest
had come so unexpectedly that there had been no time to separate them and get them back into
their lodgings.

When Cosmo descended the scene that met his eyes caused him to cry out in dismay, but he could
not have been heard if he had spoken through a trumpet. The noise and uproar were stunning,
and the spectacle was indescribable. The keepers had taken refuge on a kind of gallery running
round the central space, and were hanging on there for their lives.

Around them, on the railings, clinging with their claws, wildly flapping their wings, and swinging
with every roll of the vessel, were all the fowls and every winged creature in the Ark except
the giant turkeys, whose power of wing was insufficient to lift them out of the melee.

But all the four-footed beasts were rolling, tumbling, and struggling in the open space below.
With every lurch of the Ark they were swept across the floor in an indistinguishable mass.

The elephants wisely did not attempt to get upon their feet, but allowed themselves to slide
from side to side, sometimes crushing the smaller animals, and sometimes, in spite of all their
efforts, rolling upon their backs, with their titanic limbs swaying above them, and their trunks
wildly grasping whatever came within their reach.

The huge Californian cattle were in no better case, and the poor sheep presented a pitiable
spectacle as they were tumbled in woolly heaps from side to side.

Strangest sight of all was that of the great Astoria turtles. They had been pitched upon their
backs and were unable to turn themselves over, and their big carapaces served admirably for
sliders.

They glided with the speed of logs in a chute, now this way, now that, shooting like immense
projectiles through the throng of struggling beasts, cutting down those that happened to be
upon their feet, and not ending their course until they had crashed against the nearest wall.

As one of the turtles slid toward the bottom of the steps on which Cosmo was clinging it cut
under the legs of one of the giant turkeys, and the latter, making a superphasianidaean effort,
half leaped, half flapped its way upon the steps to the side of Cosmo Versal, embracing him
with one of its stumpy wings, while its red neck and head, with bloodshot eyes, swayed high
above his bald dome.

The keepers gradually made their way round the gallery to Cosmo's side, and he indicated to
them by signs that they must quit the place with him, and wait for a lull of the tempest before
trying to do anything for their charges.

A few hours later the wind died down, and then they collected all that remained alive of the
animals in their pens and secured them as best they could against the consequences of another
period of rolling and pitching.

The experiences of the passengers had been hardly less severe, and panic reigned throughout
the Ark. After the lull came, however, some degree of order was restored, and Cosmo had all
who were in a condition to leave their rooms assemble in the grand saloon, where he informed
them of the situation of affairs, and tried to restore their confidence. The roar on the roof,
in spite of the sound-absorbing cover which had been re-erected, compelled him to use a trumpet.

"I do not conceal from you," he said in conclusion, "that the worst has now arrived. I do not
look for any cessation of the flood from the sky until we shall have passed through the nucleus
of the nebula. But the Ark is a stout vessel, we are fully provisioned, and we shall get through.

"All your chambers have been specially padded, as you may have remarked, and I wish you to
remain in them, only issuing when summoned for assembly here.

"I shall call you out whenever the condition of the sea renders it safe for you to leave your
rooms. Food will be regularly served in your quarters, and I beg you to have perfect confidence
in me and my assistants."

But the confidence which Cosmo Versal recommended to the others was hardly shared by himself
and Captain Arms. The fury of the blast which had just left them had exceeded everything that
Cosmo had anticipated, and he saw that, in the face of such hurricanes, the Ark would be practically
unmanageable.

One of his first cares was to ascertain the rate at which the downpour was raising the level
of the water. This, too, surprised him. His gages showed, time after time, that the rainfall
was at the rate of about four inches per minute. Sometimes it amounted to as much as six!

"The central part of the nebula," he said to the captain, through the speaking-tube which they
had arranged for their intercommunications on the bridge, "is denser than I had supposed. The
condensation is enormous, but it is irregular, and I think it very likely that it is more rapid
in the north, where the front of the globe is plunging most directly into the nebulous mass.

"From this we should anticipate a tremendous flow southward, which may sweep us away in that
direction. This will not be a bad thing for a while, since it is southward that we must go
in order to reach the region of the Indian Ocean. But, in order not to be carried too rapidly
that way, I think it would be the best thing to point the Ark toward the northeast."

"How am I to know anything about the points in this blackness?" growled the captain.

"You must go the best you can by the compass," said Cosmo.

Cosmo Versal, as subsequently appeared, was right in supposing that the nucleus of the nebula
was exceedingly irregular in density. The condensation was not only much heavier in the north,
but it was very erratic.

Some parts of the earth received a great deal more water from the opened flood-gates above
than others, and this difference, for some reason that has never been entirely explained, was
especially marked between the eastern and western hemispheres.

We have already seen that when the downpour recommenced in Colorado it was much less severe
than during the first days of the flood. This difference continued. It seems that all the denser
parts of the nucleus happened to encounter the planet on its eastern side.

This may have been partly due to the fact that as the rotating earth moved on in its eastward
motion round the sun the comparatively dense masses of the nebula were always encountered at
the times when the eastern hemisphere was in advance. The fact, which soon became apparent
to Cosmo, that the downpour was always the most severe in the morning hours, bears out this
hypothesis.

It accords with what has been observed with respect to meteors, viz., that they are more abundant
in the early morning. But then it must be supposed that the condensed masses in the nebula
were relatively so small that they became successively exhausted, so to speak, before the western
hemisphere had come fairly into the line of fire.

Of course the irregularity in the arrival of the water did not, in the end, affect the general
level of the flood, which became the same all over the globe, but it caused immense currents,
as Cosmo had foreseen.

But there was one consequence which he had overlooked. The currents, instead of sweeping the
Ark continually southward, as he had anticipated, formed a gigantic whirl, set up unquestionably
by the great ranges of the Himalayas, the Hindoo Koosh, and the Caucasus.

This tremendous maelstrom formed directly over Persia and Arabia, and, turning in the direction
of the hands of a watch, its influence extended westward beyond the place where the Ark now was.

The consequence was that, in spite of all their efforts, Cosmo and the captain found their
vessel swept resistlessly up the course of the valley containing the Euphrates and the Tigris.

They were unable to form an opinion of their precise location, but they knew the general direction
of the movement, and by persistent logging got some idea of the rate of progress.

Fortunately the wind seldom blew with its first violence, but the effects of the whirling current
could be but little counteracted by the utmost engine power of the Ark.

Day after day passed in this manner, although, owing to the density of the rain, the difference
between day and night was only perceptible by the periodical changes from absolute blackness
to a very faint illumination when the sun was above the horizon.

The rise of the flood, which could not have been at a less rate than six hundred feet every
twenty-four hours, lifted the Ark above the level of the mountains of Kurdistan by the time
that they arrived over the upper part of the Mesopotamian plain, and the uncertain observations
which they occasionally obtained of the location of the sun, combined with such dead reckoning
as they were able to make, finally convinced them that they must certainly be approaching the
location of the Black Sea and the Caucasus range.

"I'll tell you what you're going to do," yelled Captain Arms. "You're going to make a smash
on old Ararat, where your predecessor, Noah, made his landfall."

"Tres bien!" shouted De Beauxchamps, who was frequently on the bridge, and whose Gallic spirits
nothing could daunt. "That's a good omen! M. Versal should send out one of his turkeys to spy
a landing place."

They were really nearer Ararat than they imagined, and Captain Arms's prediction narrowly missed
fulfillment. Within a couple of hours after he had spoken a dark mass suddenly loomed through
the dense air directly in their track.

Almost at the same time, and while the captain was making desperate efforts to sheer off, the
sky lightened a little, and they saw an immense heap of rock within a hundred fathoms of the
vessel.

"Ararat, by all that's good!" yelled the captain. "Sta'board! Sta'board, I tell you! Full power
ahead!"

The Ark yielded slowly to her helm, and the screws whirled madly, driving her rapidly past
the rocks, so close that they might have tossed a biscuit upon them. The set of the current
also aided them, and they got past the danger.

"Mountain navigation again!" yelled the captain. "Here we are in a nest of these sky-shoals!
What are you going to do now?"

"It is impossible to tell," returned Cosmo, "whether this is Great or Little Ararat. The former
is over 17,000 feet high, and the latter at least 13,000. It is now twelve days since the flooding
recommenced.

"If we assume a rise of 600 feet in twenty-four hours, that makes a total of 7,200 feet, which,
added to the 3,300 that we had before, gives 10,500 feet for the present elevation. This estimate
may be considerably out of the way.

"I feel sure that both the Ararats are yet well above the water line. We must get out of this
region as quickly as possible. Luckily the swirl of the current is now setting us eastward.
We are on its northern edge. It will carry the Ark down south of Mount Demavend, and the Elburz
range, and over the Persian plateau, and if we can escape from it, as I hope, by getting away
over Beluchistan, we can go directly over India and skirt the southern side of the Himalayas.
Then we shall be near the goal which we have had in mind."

"Bless me!" said the captain, staring with mingled admiration and doubt at Cosmo Versal, "if
you couldn't beat old Noah round the world, and give him half the longitude. But I'd rather
you'd navigate this hooker. The ghost of Captain Sumner itself couldn't work a traverse over
Beluchistan."

"You'll do it all right," returned Cosmo, "and the next time you drop your anchor it will probably
be on the head of Mount Everest."

CHAPTER XXIII

ROBBING THE CROWN OF THE WORLD

Now that they were going with the current instead of striving to stem it, the Ark made much
more rapid way than during the time that it was drifting toward the Black Sea.

They averaged at least six knots, and, with the aid of the current, could have done much better,
but they thought it well to be cautious, especially as they had so little means of guessing
at their exact location from day to day. The water was rough.

There was, most of the time, little wind, and often a large number of the passengers assembled
in the saloon.

The noise of the deluge on the roof was so much greater than it had been at the start that
it was difficult to converse, but there was plenty of light, and they could, at least, see
one another, and communicate by signs if not very easily by the voice. Cosmo's library was
well selected, and many passed hours in reading stories of the world they were to see no more!

King Richard and Amos Blank imitated Cosmo and the captain by furnishing themselves with a
speaking-tube, which they put alternately to their lips and their ears, and thus held long
conversations, presumably exchanging with one another the secrets of high finance and kingly
government.

Both of them had enough historical knowledge and sufficient imagination to be greatly impressed
by the fact that they were drifting, amidst this terrible storm, over the vast empire that
Alexander the Great had conquered.

They mused over the events of the great Macedonian's long marches through deserts and over
mountains, and the king, who loved the story of these glories of the past, though he had cultivated
peace in his own dominions, often sighed while they recalled them to one another. Lord Swansdown
and the other Englishmen aboard seldom joined their king since he had preferred the company
of an untitled American to theirs.

The first named could not often have made a member of the party if he had wished, for he kept
his room most of the time, declaring that he had never been so beastly seasick in his life.
He thought that such an abominable roller as the Ark should never have been permitted to go
into commission, don't you know.

On the morning of the twelfth day after they left the neighborhood of Mount Ararat Captain
Arms averred that their position must be somewhere near longitude 69 degrees east, latitude
26 degrees north.

"Then you have worked your traverse over Beluchistan very well," said Cosmo, "and we are now
afloat above the valley of the River Indus. We have the desert of northwestern India ahead,
and from that locality we can continue right down the course of the Ganges. In fact it would
be perfectly safe to turn northward and skirt the Himalayas within reach of the high peaks.
I think that's what I'll do."

"If you go fooling round any more peaks," shouted Captain Arms, in a fog-horn voice, "you'll
have to do your own steering! I've had enough of that kind of navigation!"

Nevertheless when Cosmo Versal gave the order the captain turned the prow of the Ark toward
the presumable location of the great Himalayan range, although the rebellion of his spirit
showed in the erect set of his whiskers. They were now entirely beyond the influence of the
whirl that had at first got them into trouble, and then helped them out of it, in western Asia.

Behind the barrier of the ancient "Roof of the World" the sea was relatively calm, although,
at times, they felt the effect of currents pouring down from the north, which had made their
way through the lofty passes from the Tibetan side.

Cosmo calculated from his estimate of the probable rate of rise of the flood and from the direction
and force of the currents that all but the very highest of the Pamirs must already be submerged.

It was probable, he thought, that the water had attained a level of between seventeen and eighteen
thousand feet. This, as subsequent events indicated, was undoubtedly an underestimate. The
downpour in the north must have been far greater than Cosmo thought, and the real height of
the flood was considerably in excess of what he supposed.

If they could have seen some of the gigantic peaks as they approached the mountains in the
eastern Punjab, south of Cashmere, they would have been aware of the error.

As it was, owing to the impossibility of seeing more than a short distance even when the light
was brightest, they kept farther south than was really necessary, and after passing, as they
believed, over Delhi, steered south by east, following substantially the course that Cosmo
had originally named along the line of the Ganges valley.

They were voyaging much slower now, and after another ten days had passed an unexpected change
came on. The downpour diminished in severity, and at times the sun broke forth, and for an
hour or two the rain would cease entirely, although the sky had a coppery tinge, and at night
small stars were not clearly visible.

Cosmo was greatly surprised at this. He could only conclude that the central part of the nebula
had been less extensive, though more dense, than he had estimated. It was only thirty-four
days since the deluge had recommenced, and unless present appearances were deceptive, its end
might be close at hand.

Captain Arms seized the opportunity to make celestial and solar observations which delighted
his seaman's heart, and with great glee he informed Cosmo that they were in longitude 88 degrees
20 minutes east, latitude 24 degrees 15 minutes north, and he would stake his reputation as
a navigator upon it.

"Almost exactly the location of Moorshedabad, in Bengal," said Cosmo, consulting his chart.
"The mighty peak of Kunchingunga is hardly more than two hundred miles toward the north, and
Mount Everest, the highest point in the world, is within a hundred miles of that!"

"But you're not going skimming around them!" cried the captain with some alarm.

"I shall, if the sky continues in its present condition, go as far as Darjeeling," replied
Cosmo. "Then we can turn eastward and get over upper Burmah and so on into China. From there
we can turn north again.

"I think we can manage to get into Tibet somewhere between the ranges. It all depends upon
the height of the water, and that I can ascertain exactly by getting a close look at Kunchingunga.
I would follow the line of the Brahmaputra River if I dared, but the way is too beset with perils."

"I think you've made a big mistake," said the captain. "Why didn't you come directly across
Russia, after first running up to the Black Sea from the Mediterranean, and so straight into
Tibet?"

"I begin to think that that's what I ought to have done," responded Cosmo, thoughtfully, "but
when we started the water was not high enough to make me sure of that route, and after we got
down into Egypt I didn't want to run back. But I guess it would have been better."

"Better a sight than steering among these five-mile peaks," growled Captain Arms. "How high
does Darjeeling lie? I don't want to run aground again."

"Oh, that's perfectly safe," responded Cosmo. "Darjeeling is only about 7,350 feet above the
old sea-level. I think we can go almost to the foot of Kunchingunga without any danger."

"Well, the name sounds dangerous enough in itself," said the captain, "but I suppose you'll
have your way. Give me the bearings and we'll be off."

They took two days to get to the location of Darjeeling, for at times the sky darkened and
the rain came down again in tremendous torrents. But these spells did not last more than two
or three hours, and the weather cleared between them.

As soon as they advanced beyond Darjeeling, keeping a sharp outlook for Kunchingunga, Cosmo
began to perceive the error of his calculation of the height of the flood.

The mountain should still have projected more than three thousand feet above the waves, allowing
that the average rise during the thirty-six days since the recommencement of the flood had
been six hundred feet a day.

But, in fact, they did not see it at all, and thought at first that it had been totally submerged.
At last they found it, a little rocky island, less than two hundred feet above the water, according
to Cosmo's careful measure, made from a distance of a quarter of a mile.

"This is great news for us," he exclaimed, as soon as he had completed the work. "This will
save us a long journey round. The water must now stand at about 27,900 feet, and although there
are a considerable number of peaks in the Himalayas approaching such an elevation, there are
only three or four known to reach or exceed it, of which Kunchingunga is one.

"We can, then, run right over the roof of the world, and there we'll be, in Tibet. Then we
can determine from what side it is safest to approach Mount Everest, for I am very desirous
to get near that celebrated peak, and, if possible, see it go under."

"But the weather isn't safe yet," objected Captain Arms. "Suppose we should be caught in another
downpour, and everything black about us! I'm not going to navigate this ship by searchlight
among mountains twenty-eight thousand feet tall, when the best beam that ever shot from a mirror
won't show an object a hundred fathoms away."

"Very well," Cosmo replied, "we'll circle around south for a few days and see what will happen.
I think myself that it's not quite over yet. The fact is, I hope it isn't, for now that it
has gone so far, I'd like to see the top-knot of the earth covered."

"Well, it certainly couldn't do any more harm if it got up as high as the moon," responded
the captain.

They spent four days sailing to and fro over India, and during the first three of those days
there were intermittent downpours. But the whole of the last period of twenty-four hours was
entirely without rain, and the color of the sky changed so much that Cosmo declared he would
wait no longer.

"Everest," he said, "is only 940 feet higher than Kunchingunga, and it may be sunk out of sight
before we can get there."

"Do you think the water is still rising?" asked De Beauxchamps, while King Richard and Amos
Blank listened eagerly for the reply, for now that the weather had cleared, the old company
was all assembled on the bridge.

"Yes, slowly," said Cosmo. "There is a perceptible current from the north which indicates that
condensation is still going on there. You'll see that it'll come extremely close to the six
miles I predicted before it's all over."

By the time they had returned to the neighborhood of the mountains the sky had become blue,
with only occasionally a passing sunshower, and Cosmo ordered the promenades to be thrown open,
and the passengers, with great rejoicings, resumed their daily lounging and walking on deck.

It required a little effort of thought to make them realize their situation, but when they
did it grew upon them until they could not sufficiently express their wonder.

Here they were, on an almost placid sea, with tepid airs blowing gently in their faces, and
a scorching sun overhead, whose rays had to be shielded off, floating over the highest pinnacles
of the roof of the world, the traditional "Abode of Snow!"

All around them, beneath the rippled blue surface, lined here and there with little white windrows
of foam, stood submerged peaks, 24,000, 25,000, 26,000, 27,000, 28,000 feet in elevation! They
sailed over their summits and saw them not.

All began now to sympathize with Cosmo's desire to find Everest before it should have disappeared
with its giant brothers. Its location was accurately known from the Indian government surveys,
and Captain Arms had every facility for finding the exact position of the Ark. They advanced
slowly toward the northwest, a hundred glasses eagerly scanning the horizon ahead.

Finally, at noon on the third day of their search, the welcome cry of "Land ho!" came down
from the cro'nest. Captain Arms immediately set his course for the landfall, and in the course
of a little more than an hour had it broad abeam.

"It's Everest, without question," said Cosmo. "It's the crown of the world."

But how strange was its appearance! A reddish-brown mass of rock, rising abruptly out of the
blue water, really a kind of crown in form, but not more than a couple of square rods in extent,
and about three feet high at its loftiest point.

There was no snow, of course, for that had long since disappeared, owing to the rise of temperature,
and no snow would have fallen in that latitude now, even in mid-winter, because the whole base
of the atmosphere had been lifted up nearly six miles.

Sea-level pressures were prevailing where the barometric column would once have dropped almost
to the bottom of its tube. It was all that was left of the world!

North of them, under the all-concealing ocean, lay the mighty plateau of Tibet; far toward
the east was China, deeply buried with its 500,000,000 of inhabitants; toward the south lay
India, over which they had so long been sailing; northwestward the tremendous heights of the
Pamir region and of the Hindu-Kush were sunk beneath the sea.

"When this enormous peak was covered with snow," said Cosmo, "its height was estimated at 29,002
feet, or almost five and three-quarter miles. The removal of the snow has, of course, lowered
it, but I think it probable that this point, being evidently steep on all sides, and of very
small area, was so swept by the wind that the snow was never very deep upon it.

"If we allow ten, or even twenty feet for the snow, the height of this rock cannot be much
less than 29,000 feet above the former sea-level. But I do not dare to approach closer, because
Everest had a broad summit, and we might possibly ground upon a sharp ridge."

"And you are sure that the water is still rising?" asked De Beauxchamps again.

"Watch and you will see," Cosmo responded.

The Ark was kept circling very slowly within a furlong of the rocky crown, and everybody who
had a glass fixed his eyes upon it.

"The peak is certainly sinking," said De Beauxchamps at last. "I believe it has gone down three
inches in the last fifteen minutes."

"Keep your eyes fixed on some definite point," said Cosmo to the others who were looking, "and
you will easily note the rise of the water."

They watched it until nobody felt any doubt. Inch by inch the crown of the world was going
under. In an hour Cosmo's instruments showed that the highest point had settled to a height
of but two feet above the sea.

"But when will the elevation that you have predicted begin?" asked one.

"Its effects will not become evident immediately," Cosmo replied. "It may possibly already
have begun, but if so, it is masked by the continued rise of the water."

"And how long shall we have to wait for the re-emergence of Tibet?"

"I cannot tell, but it will be a long time. But do not worry about that. We have plenty of
provisions, and the weather will continue fine after the departure of the nebula."

They circled about until only a foot or so of the rock remained above the reach of the gently
washing waves. Suddenly struck by a happy thought, De Beauxchamps exclaimed:

"I must have a souvenir from the crown of the disappearing world. M. Versal, will you permit
me to land upon it with one of your boats?"

De Beauxchamps's suggestion was greeted with cheers, and twenty others immediately expressed
a desire to go.

"No," said Cosmo to the eager applicants, "it is M. De Beauxchamps's idea; let him go alone.
Yes," he continued, addressing the Frenchman, "you can have a boat, and I will send two men
with you to manage it. You'd better hurry, or there will be nothing left to land upon."

The necessary orders were quickly given, and in five minutes De Beauxchamps, watched by envious
eyes, was rapidly approaching the disappearing rock. They saw him scramble out upon it, and
they gave a mighty cheer as he waved his hand at them.

He had taken a hammer with him, and with breathless interest they watched him pounding and
prying about the rock. They could see that he selected the very highest point for his operations.

While he worked away, evidently filling his pockets, the interest of the onlookers became more
and more intense.

"Look out!" they presently began to shout at him, "you will be caught by the water."

But he paid no attention, working with feverish rapidity. Suddenly the watchers saw a little
ripple break over the last speck of dry land on the globe, and De Beauxchamps standing up to
his shoe-laces in water. Cries of dismay came from the Ark. De Beauxchamps now gave over his
work, and, with apparent reluctance, entered the boat, which was rowed close up to the place
where he was standing.

As the returning boat approached the Ark, another volley of cheers broke forth, and the Frenchman,
standing up to his full height, waved with a triumphant air something that sparkled brilliantly
in the sunshine.

"I congratulate you, M. De Beauxchamps," cried Cosmo, as the adventurer scrambled aboard. "You
have stood where no human foot has ever been before, and I see that you have secured your souvenir
of the world that was."

"Yes," responded De Beauxchamps exultantly, "and see what it is--a worthy decoration for such
a coronet."

He held up his prize, amid exclamations of astonishment and admiration from those who were
near enough to see it.

"The most beautiful specimen of amethyst I ever beheld!" cried a mineralogist enthusiastically,
taking it from De Beauxchamps's hand. "What was the rock?"

"Unfortunately, I am no mineralogist," replied the Frenchman, "and I cannot tell you, but these
gems were abundant. I could have almost filled the boat if I had had time.

"The amethyst," he added gayly, "is the traditional talisman against intoxication, but, although
these adorned her tiara, the poor old world has drunk her fill."

"But it is only water," said Cosmo, smiling.

"Too much, at any rate," returned the Frenchman.

"I should say," continued the mineralogist, "that the rock was some variety of syenite, from
its general appearance."

"I know nothing of that," replied De Beauxchamps, "but I have the jewels of the terrestrial
queen, and," he continued gallantly, "I shall have the pleasure of bestowing them upon the ladies."

He emptied his pockets, and found that he had enough to give every woman aboard the Ark a specimen,
with several left over for some of the men, Cosmo, of course, being one of the recipients.

"There," said De Beauxchamps, as he handed the stone to Cosmo, "there is a memento from the
Gaurisankar."

"I beg your pardon--Mount Everest, if you please," interposed Edward Whistlington.

"No," responded the Frenchman stoutly, "it is the Gaurisankar. Why will you English persist
in renaming everything in the world? Gaurisankar is the native name, and, in my opinion, far
more appropriate and euphonious than Everest."

This discussion was not continued, for now everybody became interested in the movements of
the Ark. Cosmo had decided that it would be safe to approach close to the point where the last
peak of the mountain had disappeared.

Cautiously they drew nearer and nearer, until, looking through the wonderfully transparent
water, they caught sight of a vast precipice descending with frightful steepness, down and
down, until all was lost in the profundity beneath.

The point on which De Beauxchamps had landed was now covered so deep that the water had ceased
to swirl about it, but lay everywhere in an unbroken sheet, which was every moment becoming
more placid and refulgent in the sunshine.

The world was drowned at last! As they looked abroad over the convex surface, they thought,
with a shudder, that now the earth, seen from space, was only a great, glassy ball, mirroring
the sun and the stars.

But they were ignorant of what had happened far in the west!

CHAPTER XXIV

THE FRENCHMAN'S NEW SCHEME

After the disappearance of Mt. Everest, Cosmo Versal made a careful measurement of the depth
of water on the peak, which he found to be forty feet, and then decided to cruise eastward
with the Ark, sailing slowly, and returning after a month to see whether by that time there
would be any indications of the reappearance of land.

No part of his extraordinary theory of the deluge was more revolutionary, or scientifically
incredible, than this idea that the continents would gradually emerge again, owing to internal
stresses set up in the crust of the earth.

This, he anticipated, would be caused by the tremendous pressure of the water, which must be
ten or twelve miles deep over the greatest depressions of the old ocean-bottoms. He expected
that geological movements would attend the intrusion of the water into subterranean cavities
and into the heated magma under volcanic regions.

He often debated the question with the savants aboard the Ark, and, despite their incredulity,
he persisted in his opinion. He could not be shaken, either, in his belief that the first land
to emerge would be the Himalayas, the Pamirs, and the plateau of Tibet.

"We may have to wait some years before any considerable area is exposed," he admitted, "but
it must not be forgotten that what land does first appear above the water will lie at the existing
sea-level, and will have an oceanic climate, suitable for the rapid development of plants.

"We have aboard all things needed for quick cultivation, and in one season we could begin to
raise crops."

"But at first," said Professor Jeremiah Moses, "only mountain tops will emerge, and how can
you expect to cultivate them?"

"There is every probability," replied Cosmo, "that even the rocks of a mountain will be sufficiently
friable after their submergence to be readily reduced to the state of soil, especially with
the aid of the chemical agents which I have brought along, and I have no fear that I could
not, in a few weeks, make even the top of Everest fertile.

"I anticipate, in fact, that it will be on that very summit that we shall begin the re-establishment
of the race. Then, as the plateaus below come to the surface, we can gradually descend and
enlarge the field of our operations."

"Suppose Everest should be turned into a volcano?"

"That cannot happen," said Cosmo. "A volcano is built up by the extrusion of lava and cinders
from below, and these cannot break forth at the top of a mountain already formed, especially
when that mountain has no volcanic chimney and no crater, and Everest had neither."

"If the lowering of the flood that caused our stranding on a mountain top in Sicily was due
to the absorption of water into the interior of the crust, why may not that occur again, and
thus bring the Himalayas into view, without any rising on their part?" demanded Professor Moses.

"I think," said Cosmo, "that all the water that could enter the crust has already done so,
during the time that the depression of level which so surprised us was going on. Now we must
wait for geologic changes, resulting from the gradual yielding of the internal mass to the
new forces brought to bear upon it.

"As the whole earth has gained in weight by the condensation of the nebula upon it, its plastic
crust will proportionally gain in girth by internal expansion, which will finally bring all
the old continents to the surface, but Asia first of all."

Whether Cosmo Versal's hypotheses were right or wrong, he always had a reply to any objection,
and the prestige which he had gained by his disastrously correct theory about the watery nebula
gave him an advantage so enormous that nobody felt enough confidence in himself to stand long
against anything that he might advance.

Accordingly, everybody in the Ark found himself looking forward to the re-emergence of Mount
Everest almost as confidently as did their leader, Cosmo Versal.

They began their waiting voyage by sailing across the plateau of Tibet and the lofty chain
of the Yung-ling Mountains out over China.

The interest of all aboard was excited to the highest degree when they found themselves sailing
over the mighty domains of the Chinese President-Emperor, who had developed an enormous power,
making him the ruler of the whole eastern world.

He, with his half-billion or more of subjects, now reposed at the bottom of an ocean varying
from three to five or six miles in depth. Deep beneath the Ark lay the broad and once populous
valleys of the Yangtse-Kiang and the Hoang-Ho, the "Scourge of China."

Finally they swung round northward and re-entered the region of Tibet, seeking once more the
drowned crown of the world. In the meantime Cosmo had had the theatrical exhibitions and the
concerts resumed in the evenings, and sometimes there was music, and even dancing on the long
promenades, open to the outer air.

Let not that be a matter of surprise or blame, for the spirit of joy in life is unconquerable,
as it should be if life is worth while. So it happened that, not infrequently, and not with
any blameworthy intention, or in any spirit of heartless forgetfulness, this remarkable company
of world-wanderers drifted, in the moonlight, above the universal watery grave of the drowned
millions, with the harmonies of stringed instruments stealing out upon the rippling waves,
and the soft sound of swiftly shuffling feet tripping over the smooth decks.

Costake Theriade and Sir Wilfrid Athelstone resumed their stormy efforts to talk each other
down, but now even Cosmo was seldom a listener, except when he had to interfere to keep the peace.

King Richard and Amos Blank, however, usually heard them out, but it was evident from their
expressions that they enjoyed the prospective fisticuffs rather more than the exposition of
strange scientific doctrines.

Perhaps the happiest man aboard was Captain Arms. At last he could make as many and as certain
observations as he chose, and he studied the charts of Asia until he declared that now he knew
the latitude and longitude of the mountains better than he did those of the seaports of the
old oceans.

He had not the least difficulty in finding the location of Mount Everest again, and when he
announced that they were floating over it, Cosmo immediately prepared to make another measurement
of the depth of water on the peak. The result was hardly gratifying. He found that it had diminished
but four inches. He said to Captain Arms:

"The range is rising, but less rapidly than I hoped. Even if the present rate should be doubled
it would require five years for the emergence of the highest point. Instead of remaining in
this part of the world we shall have an abundance of time to voyage round the earth, going
leisurely, and when we get back again perhaps there will be enough land visible to give us
a good start."

"Mr. Versal," said the captain, "you remember that you promised me that I should drop my anchor
on the head of Mount Everest if I worked a traverse across Beluchistan."

"Certainly I remember it; and also that you were not much disposed to undertake the task. However,
you did it well, and I suppose that now you want me to fulfill the bargain?"

"Exactly," replied the captain. "I'd just like to get a mud-hook in the top-knot of the earth.
I reckon that that'll lay over all the sea yarns ever spun."

"Very well," returned Cosmo. "Try it, if you've got cable enough."

"Enough and to spare," cried the captain, "and I'll have the Gaurisankar, as the Frenchman
calls it, hooked in a jiffy."

This was an operation which called everybody to the rails to watch it. Hundreds of eyes tried
to follow the anchor as it descended perpendicularly upon the mountain-top, nearly forty feet
beneath. Through the clear water they could dimly see the dark outline of the summit below,
and they gazed at it with wonder, and a sort of terror.

Somehow they felt that never before had they fully appreciated the awful depths over which
they had been floating. The anchor steadily dropped until it rested on the rock.

It got a hold finally, and in a few minutes the great vessel was swinging slowly round, held
by a cable whose grasp was upon the top of the world! When the sensation had been sufficiently
enjoyed the anchor was tripped, and the nose of the Ark was turned northwestward. Cosmo Versal
announced his intention to circumnavigate the drowned globe.

The news of what they were about to do was both welcome and saddening to the inmates of the
vessel. They wished to pass once more over the lands where they had first seen the light, and
at the same time they dreaded the memories that such a voyage would inevitably bring back with
overwhelming force. But, at any rate, it would be better than drifting for years over Tibet
and China.

While everybody else was discussing the prospects of the new voyage, and wondering how long
it would last, Yves de Beauxchamps was concentrating all his attention upon a new project which
had sprung up in his active mind as soon as Cosmo's intention was announced. He took Cosmo
aside and said to him:

"M. Versal, the dearest memory that I have treasured in my heart is that of the last sight
of my drowned home, my beautiful dead Paris. It may be that the home-loving instincts of my
race arouse in me a melancholy pleasure over such a sight which would not be shared by you,
of a different blood; but if, perchance, you do share my feelings on this subject I believe
that I can promise you a similar visit to the great metropolis where your life began, and where
you executed those labors whose result has been to preserve a remnant of humanity to repeople
the earth."

Cosmo Versal's quick intelligence instantly comprehended the Frenchman's design, but it startled
him, and apparently insuperable difficulties at once occurred to his mind.

"M. De Beauxchamps," he responded, grasping his friend warmly by the hand, "I thank you from
the bottom of my heart for your amiable intention, and I assure you that nothing could afford
me greater satisfaction than to see once more that mighty city, even though it can now be but
an awful ruin, tenanted by no life except the terrible creatures of the deep. But, while I
foresee what your plan must be, I can hardly conceive that its execution could be possible.
You are thinking, of course, of constructing a diving apparatus capable of penetrating to a
depth of nearly six miles in the sea. Setting aside the question whether we could find in the
stores of the Ark the materials that would be needed, it appears to me most improbable that
we could make the apparatus of sufficient strength to withstand the pressure, and could then
cause it to sink to so great a depth, and afterward bring it safely to the surface."

The Frenchman smiled.

"M. Versal," he replied, "I have taken the liberty to look over the stock of materials which
you have so wisely prepared for possible repairs to the Ark and for use after the Ark lands,
and I know that among them I can find all that I shall need. You yourself know how completely
you are provided with engineering tools and machines of all kinds. You have even an electric
foundry aboard. With the aid of your mechanical genius, and the skill of your assistants, together
with that of my own men, who are accustomed to work of this kind, I have not the faintest doubt
that I can design and construct a diving-bell, large enough to contain a half-dozen persons,
and perfectly capable of penetrating to any depth. Of course I cannot make it of levium, but
you have a sufficient supply of herculeum steel, the strength of which is so immense that the
walls of the bell can be made to remit the pressure even at a depth of six miles. From my previous
experiments I am confident that there will be no difficulty in sinking and afterward raising
this apparatus. It is only necessary that the mean specific gravity of the bell shall be greater
than that of the water at a given depth, and you know that as far back as the end of the nineteenth
century your own countrymen sent down sounding apparatus more than six miles in the Pacific
Ocean, near the island of Guam."

"But the air inside the bell--" Cosmo began.

"Excuse me," interrupted De Beauxchamps, "but that air need be under no greater pressure than
at the surface. I shall know how to provide for that. Remember the Jules Verne. Simply give
me carte blanche in this matter, let me have the materials to work with, afford me the advantage
of your advice and assistance whenever I shall need them, and I promise you that by the time
we have arrived over the site of New York we shall be prepared for the descent."

Cosmo was deeply impressed by the Frenchman's enthusiastic self-confidence. He had a great
admiration for the constructor of the Jules Verne, and, besides, the proposed adventure was
exactly after his own heart. After meditating a while, he said heartily:

"Well, M. De Beauxchamps, I give my consent. Everything you wish shall be at your disposal,
and you can begin as soon as you choose. Only, let the thing be kept a secret between us and
the workmen who are employed. If it should turn out a failure it would not do that the people
in the Ark should be aware of it. I can give you a working room on one of the lower decks,
where there will be no interference with your proceedings, and no knowledge of what you are
about can leak out."

"That is exactly what I should wish," returned De Beauxchamps, smiling with delight, "and I
renew my promise that you shall not be disappointed."

So, without a suspicion of what was going on entering the minds of any person in the great
company outside the small company of men who were actually employed in the work, the construction
of De Beauxchamps's great diving-bell was begun, and pushed with all possible speed, consistent
with the proper execution of the work. In the meantime the Ark continued its course toward
the west.

They ran slowly, for there was no hurry, and the Ark had now become to its inhabitants as a
house and a home--their only foothold on the whole round earth, and that but a little floating
island of buoyant metal. They crossed the Pamirs and the Hindu-Kush, the place where the Caspian
Sea had been swallowed up in the universal ocean, and ran over Ararat, which three months before
had put them into such fearful danger, but whose loftiest summit now lay twelve thousand feet
beneath their keel.

At length, after many excursions toward the north and toward the south, in the halcyon weather
that had seldom failed since the withdrawal of the nebula, they arrived at the place (or above
it) which had stood during centuries for a noon-mark on the globe.

It was midday when Captain Arms, having made his observations, said to Cosmo and the others
on the bridge:

"Noon at Greenwich, and noon on the Ark. Latitude, fifty-one degrees thirty minutes. That brings
you as nearly plumb over the place as you'd be likely to hit it. Right down there lies the
old observatory that set the chronometers of the world, and kept the clocks and watches up
to their work."

King Richard turned aside upon hearing the captain's words. They brought a too vivid picture
of the great capital, six miles under their feet, and a too poignant recollection of the disastrous
escape of the royal family from overwhelmed London seven months before.

As reckoned by the almanac, it was the 15th of September, more than sixteen months since Cosmo
had sent out his first warning to the public, when the Ark crossed the meridian of seventy-four
degrees west, in about forty-one degrees north latitude, and the adventurers knew that New
York was once more beneath them.

There was great emotion among both passengers and crew, for the majority of them had either
dwelt in New York or been in some way associated with its enterprises and its people, and,
vain as must be the hope of seeing any relic of the buried metropolis, every eye was on the alert.

They looked off across the boundless sea in every direction, interrogating every suspicious
object on the far horizon, and even peering curiously into the blue abyss, as if something
might suddenly appear there which would speak to them like a voice from the past.

But they saw only shafts of sunlight running into bottomless depths, and occasionally some
oceanic creature floating lazily far below. The color of the sea was wonderful. It had attracted
their attention after the submergence of Mount Everest, but at that time it had not yet assumed
its full splendor.

At first, no doubt, there was considerable dissolved matter in the water, but gradually this
settled, and the sea became bluer and bluer--not the deep indigo of the old ocean, but a much
lighter and more brilliant hue--and here, over the site of New York, the waters were of a bright,
luminous sapphire, that dazzled the eye.

Cosmo declared that the change of the sea-color was undoubtedly due to some quality in the
nebula from whose condensation the water had been produced, but neither his own analyses, nor
those of the chemists aboard the Ark, were able to detect the subtle element to whose presence
the peculiar tint was due.

But whatever it may have been, it imparted to the ocean an ethereal, imponderous look, which
was sometimes startling. There were moments when they almost expected to see it expand back
into the nebulous form and fly away.

CHAPTER XXV

NEW YORK IN HER OCEAN TOMB

During the long voyage from the sunken Himalayas to still deeper sunken New York, De Beauxchamps,
with his fellow-countrymen and the skilled mechanics assigned by Cosmo Versal to aid them,
had finished the construction of the huge diving-bell. No one not in the secret had the slightest
idea of what had been done, owing to the remote situation of the deck on which the construction
was carried out.

Now, while a thousand pairs of eyes were interrogating the smooth surface of the sea, and striving
to penetrate its cerulean depths, a great surprise was sprung upon the passengers. The rear
gangway of the lowest deck was cleared, a heavy crane-like beam was set projecting over the
water, and men began to rig a flexible cable, which had been specially prepared for the purpose
of lowering the bell into the depths, and of raising it again when the adventurers should wish
to return to the surface. Everybody's attention was immediately attracted to these strange
preparations, and the utmost curiosity was aroused. A chorus of wondering exclamations broke
out when a metallic globe, twenty feet in diameter, and polished until it shone like a giant
thermometer bulb, was rolled out and carefully attached to the cable by means of a strong ring
set in one side of the bell. The excitement of the passengers would soon have become uncontrollable
if Cosmo had not at this point summoned the entire ship's company into the great saloon. As
soon as all were assembled he mounted his dais and began to speak.

"My fellow-citizens of the old world, which has perished, and of the new, which is to take
its place," he said, "we owe to the genius of M. De Beauxchamps an apparatus which is about
to enable us to inspect, by an actual visit, the remains of the vast metropolis, which we saw
in all its majesty and beauty but so few months ago, and which now lies forever silent at the
bottom of this universal ocean.

"If it were practicable I should wish to afford to every one of you a farewell glimpse of that
mighty city, to which the hearts of so many here are bound, but you can readily understand
that that would be impossible. Only six persons can go in this exploring bell, and they have
been chosen; but a faithful account will be brought back to you of all that they see and learn.
The adventuring company will consist of M. De Beauxchamps, M. Pujol, his first assistant, Mr.
Amos Blank, King Richard, Professor Abel Able, and myself. Mind I tell you; they'll see it. Nancy,
you've heard of steamboats, and maybe you believed in them--of course you did. You've heard
these cattle here scoff at them and call them lies and humbugs,--but they're not lies and
humbugs, they're a reality and they're going to be a more wonderful thing some day than they are
now. They're going to make a revolution in this world's affairs that will make men dizzy to
contemplate. I've been watching--I've been watching while some people
slept, and I know what's coming.

"Even you and I will see the day that steamboats will come up that little Turkey river to within
twenty miles of this land of ours--and in high water they'll come right to it! And this is not
all, Nancy--it isn't even half! There's a bigger wonder--the railroad! These worms here have never
even heard of it--and when they do they'll not believe in it. But
it's another fact.

Coaches that fly over the ground twenty miles an hour--heavens and earth, think of that, Nancy!
Twenty miles an hour. It makes a main's brain whirl. Some day, when you and I are in our graves,
there'll be a railroad stretching hundreds of miles--all the way down from the cities of the Northern
States to New Orleans--and its got to run within thirty miles of this land--may be even touch
a corner of it. Well; do you know, they've quit burning wood in some places in the Eastern States?
And what do you suppose they burn? Coal!" [He bent over and whispered
again:] "There's world--worlds of it on this land!

"For the purposes of observation we have provided, on four sides of the bell, a series of circular
windows, with glass of immense thickness and strength, but of extraordinary transparency. Through
these windows we shall be able to see in almost all directions. It was our intention to provide
wireless telephone apparatus with which we might have kept you informed of all our doings and
discoveries, but unfortunately we have found it impracticable to utilize our control for that
purpose. We shall, however, be able to send and receive signals as long as we are connected
with the cable.

"I should add that the construction of the bell, although suggested by M. De Beauxchamps immediately
after our departure from Mount Everest, has been carried on in secret simply because we did
not wish to subject you to the immense disappointment which you would certainly have experienced
if this brilliant conception of our gifted friend, after being once made known to you, had
proved to be a failure. Our preparations have all been made, and within an hour we shall begin
the descent."

It is quite impossible to describe the excitement of the passengers while they listened to
this extraordinary communication. When Cosmo Versal had finished speaking he stood for some
minutes looking at his audience with a triumphant smile. First a murmur of excited voices arose,
and then somebody proposed three cheers, which were given and repeated until the levium dome
rang with the reverberations. Nobody knew exactly why he was cheering, but the infectious enthusiasm
carried everything before it. Then the crowd began to ask questions, addressed not to Cosmo
but to one another. The wildest suggestions were made. One woman who had left some treasured
heirlooms in a Fifth Avenue mansion demanded of her husband that he should commission Cosmo
Versal to recover them.

"I'm sure they're there," she insisted. "They were locked in the safe."

"But, don't you see," protested the poor man, "he can't get outside of that bell to get 'em."

"I don't see why he can't, if he should really try. I think it's too mean! They were my grandmother's
jewels."

"But, my dear, how could he get out?"

"Well, how does he get in? What's his radio-control good for; won't that help him? What is
he going down there for if he can't do a little thing like that, to oblige?"

She pouted at her husband because he persistently refused to present her request to Cosmo,
and declared that she would do it herself, then, for she must have those jewels, now that they
were so near.

But Cosmo was saved from this, and other equally unreasonable demands, by a warning from De
Beauxchamps that all was ready, and that no time should be lost. Then everybody hastened out
on the decks to watch the departure of the adventurers. Many thoughtfully shook their heads,
predicting that they would never be seen again. As soon as this feeling began to prevail the
enthusiasm quickly evaporated, and efforts were made to dissuade Cosmo and De Beauxchamps from
making the attempt. But they were deaf to all remonstrance, and pushing out of the chattering
crowd, Cosmo ordered the gangway about the bell to be cleared of all bystanders. The opposition
heated his blood a little, and he began to bear himself with an air which recalled his aspect
when he quelled and punished the mutiny. This was enough to silence instantly every objector
to his proceedings. Henceforth they kept their thoughts to themselves, although some muttered,
under their breath such epithets as "fool" and "harebrain."

In about half an hour after Cosmo's speech the bell, with its hardy explorers safely inclosed
within, was lowered away, and a minute later hundreds were craning their necks over the rails
to watch the shining globe engulf itself swiftly in the sapphire depths. It was about nine
o'clock in the morning when the descent was begun, and for a long time, so remarkable was the
transparency of the water, they could see the bell sinking, and becoming smaller until it resembled
a blue pearl. Sometimes a metallic flash shot from its polished sides like a gleam of violet
lightning. But at length it passed from view, swallowed up in the tremendous watery chasm.

We turn now to trace the adventures of the bell and its inmates as they entered the awful twilight
of the ocean, and, sinking deeper, passed gradually into a profundity which the sun's most
powerful rays were unable to penetrate. "We will go to Missouri. You are out of your place, here, among
these groping dumb creatures.

We will find a higher place, where you can walk with your own kind,
and be understood when you speak--not stared at as if you were talking
some foreign tongue. These
views were, of course, restricted by the combined effects of the smallness of the windows and
their great thickness; the inmates were somewhat like prisoners looking out of round ports
cut through massive walls, but the range of view was much widened when they placed themselves
close to the glasses, because the latter were in the form of truncated cones with the base outward.

Glancing through the ports on the upper side of the bell Cosmo and his companions could perceive
the huge form of the Ark, hanging like a cloud above them, but rapidly receding, while from
the side ports they saw great shafts of azure sunlight, thrown into wonderful undulations by
the disturbance of the water. These soon became fainter and gradually disappeared, but before
the gloom of the depths settled about them they were thrilled by the spectacle of sharks and
other huge fishes nosing about the outer side of the transparent cones, and sometimes opening
their jaws as if trying to seize them. Most of the cone-shaped windows had flat surfaces, but
a few were of spherical outline both without and within, and the radius of curvature had been
so calculated that these particular windows served as huge magnifying lenses for an eye placed
at a given distance. Once or twice a marine monster happened to place himself in the field
of one of these magnifying windows, startling the observers almost out of their senses with
his frightful appearance.

There were also four windows reserved for projecting a searchlight into the outer darkness.
The inner side of the bell corresponded in curvature with the outer, so that the adventurers
had no flat flooring on any side to stand upon, but this caused little inconvenience, since
the walls were abundantly provided with hand and foot holds, enabling the inmates to maintain
themselves in almost any position they could wish.

After a while they passed below the range of daylight, and then they turned on the searchlight.
The storage batteries which supplied energy for the searchlight and the propellers served also
to operate an apparatus for clearing the air of carbonic acid, and De Beauxchamps had carefully
calculated the limit of time that the air could be kept in a breathable condition. This did
not exceed forty-eight hours--but as we have seen they had no intention of remaining under
water longer than twenty hours at the utmost.

When the bell entered the night of the sea-depths they passed into an apparently lifeless zone,
where the searchlight, projected now on one side and now on another, revealed no more of the
living forms which they had encountered above, but showed only a desert of solid transparent
water. Here, amid this awful isolation, they experienced for the first time a feeling of dread
and terror. An overpowering sense of loneliness and helplessness came over them, and only the
stout heart of Cosmo Versal, and his reassuring words, kept the others from making the signal
which would have caused the bell to be hastily drawn back to the Ark.

"M. De Beauxchamps," said Cosmo, breaking the impressive silence, "to what depth have we now
descended?"

"A thousand fathoms," replied the Frenchman, consulting his automatic register.

"Good! We have been only thirty minutes in reaching this depth. We shall sink more slowly as
we get deeper, but I think we can count upon reaching the bottom in not more than four hours
from the moment of our departure. It will require only two hours for them to draw us back again
with the powerful engines of the Ark, especially when aided by our propellers. This will leave
fourteen hours for our explorations, if we stay out the limit that we have fixed."

There was such an air of confidence in Cosmo's manner and words that this simple statement
did much to enhearten the others.

"The absence of life in this part of the sea," Cosmo continued cheerfully, "does not surprise
me. It has long been known that the life of the ocean is confined to regions near the surface
and the bottom. We shall certainly find plenty of wonderful creatures below."

When they knew that they must be near the bottom they turned the light downward, and every
available window was occupied by an eager watcher. Presently a cry of "Look! Look there!" broke
from several voices at once.

The searchlight, penetrating far through the clear water beneath the bell, fell in a circle
round a most remarkable object--tall, gaunt, and spectral, with huge black ribs.

"Why, it's the Metropolitan tower, still standing!" cried Amos Blank. "Who would have believed
it possible?"

