THE AMERICAN NEWSPAPER

By Charles Dudley Warner

Our theme for the hour is the American Newspaper. It is a subject in which everybody is interested,
and about which it is not polite to say that anybody is not well informed; for, although there
are scattered through the land many persons, I am sorry to say, unable to pay for a newspaper,
I have never yet heard of anybody unable to edit one.

The topic has many points of view, and invites various study and comment. In our limited time
we must select one only. We have heard a great deal about the power, the opportunity, the duty,
the "mission," of the press. The time has come for a more philosophical treatment of it, for
an inquiry into its relations to our complex civilization, for some ethical account of it as
one of the developments of our day, and for some discussion of the effect it is producing,
and likely to produce, on the education of the people. Has the time come, or is it near at
hand, when we can point to a person who is alert, superficial, ready and shallow, self-confident
and half-informed, and say, "There is a product of the American newspaper"? The newspaper is
not a willful creation, nor an isolated phenomenon, but the legitimate outcome of our age,
as much as our system of popular education. And I trust that some competent observer will make,
perhaps for this association, a philosophical study of it. My task here is a much humbler one.
I have thought that it may not be unprofitable to treat the newspaper from a practical and
even somewhat mechanical point of view.

The newspaper is a private enterprise. Its object is to make money for its owner. Whatever
motive may be given out for starting a newspaper, expectation of profit by it is the real one,
whether the newspaper is religious, political, scientific, or literary. The exceptional cases
of newspapers devoted to ideas or "causes" without regard to profit are so few as not to affect
the rule. Commonly, the cause, the sect, the party, the trade, the delusion, the idea, gets
its newspaper, its organ, its advocate, only when some individual thinks he can see a pecuniary
return in establishing it.

This motive is not lower than that which leads people into any other occupation or profession.
To make a living, and to have a career, is the original incentive in all cases. Even in purely
philanthropical enterprises the driving-wheel that keeps them in motion for any length of time
is the salary paid the working members. So powerful is this incentive that sometimes the wheel
will continue to turn round when there is no grist to grind. It sometimes happens that the
friction of the philanthropic machinery is so great that but very little power is transmitted
to the object for which the machinery was made. I knew a devoted agent of the American Colonization
Society, who, for several years, collected in Connecticut just enough, for the cause, to buy
his clothes, and pay his board at a good hotel.

It is scarcely necessary to say, except to prevent a possible misapprehension, that the editor
who has no high ideals, no intention of benefiting his fellow-men by his newspaper, and uses
it unscrupulously as a means of money-making only, sinks to the level of the physician and
the lawyer who have no higher conception of their callings than that they offer opportunities
for getting money by appeals to credulity, and by assisting in evasions of the law.

If the excellence of a newspaper is not always measured by its profitableness, it is generally
true that, if it does not pay its owner, it is valueless to the public. Not all newspapers
which make money are good, for some succeed by catering to the lowest tastes of respectable
people, and to the prejudice, ignorance, and passion of the lowest class; but, as a rule, the
successful journal pecuniarily is the best journal. The reasons for this are on the surface.
The impecunious newspaper cannot give its readers promptly the news, nor able discussion of
the news, and, still worse, it cannot be independent. The political journal that relies for
support upon drippings of party favor or patronage, the general newspaper that finds it necessary
to existence to manipulate stock reports, the religious weekly that draws precarious support
from puffing doubtful enterprises, the literary paper that depends upon the approval of publishers,
are poor affairs, and, in the long run or short run, come to grief. Some newspapers do succeed
by sensationalism, as some preachers do; by a kind of quackery, as some doctors do; by trimming
and shifting to any momentary popular prejudice, as some politicians do; by becoming the paid
advocate of a personal ambition or a corporate enterprise, as some lawyers do: but the newspaper
only becomes a real power when it is able, on the basis of pecuniary independence, to free
itself from all such entanglements. An editor who stands with hat in hand has the respect accorded
to any other beggar.

The recognition of the fact that the newspaper is a private and purely business enterprise
will help to define the mutual relations of the editor and the public. His claim upon the public
is exactly that of any manufacturer or dealer. It is that of the man who makes cloth, or the
grocer who opens a shop--neither has a right to complain if the public does not buy of him.
If the buyer does not like a cloth half shoddy, or coffee half-chicory, he will go elsewhere.
If the subscriber does not like one newspaper, he takes another, or none. The appeal for newspaper
support on the ground that such a journal ought to be sustained by an enlightened community,
or on any other ground than that it is a good article that people want,--or would want if they
knew its value,--is purely childish in this age of the world. If any person wants to start
a periodical devoted to decorated teapots, with the noble view of inducing the people to live
up to his idea of a teapot, very good; but he has no right to complain if he fails.

On the other hand, the public has no rights in the newspaper except what it pays for; even
the "old subscriber" has none, except to drop the paper if it ceases to please him. The notion
that the subscriber has a right to interfere in the conduct of the paper, or the reader to
direct its opinions, is based on a misconception of what the newspaper is. The claim of the
public to have its communications printed in the paper is equally baseless. Whether they shall
be printed or not rests in the discretion of the editor, having reference to his own private
interest, and to his apprehension of the public good. Nor is he bound to give any reason for
his refusal. It is purely in his discretion whether he will admit a reply to any thing that
has appeared in his columns. No one has a right to demand it. Courtesy and policy may grant
it; but the right to it does not exist. If any one is injured, he may seek his remedy at law;
and I should like to see the law of libel such and so administered that any person injured
by a libel in the newspaper, as well as by slander out of it, could be sure of prompt redress.
While the subscribes acquires no right to dictate to the newspaper, we can imagine an extreme
case when he should have his money back which had been paid in advance, if the newspaper totally
changed its character. If he had contracted with a dealer to supply him with hard coal during
the winter, he might have a remedy if the dealer delivered only charcoal in the coldest weather;
and so if he paid for a Roman Catholic journal which suddenly became an organ of the spiritists.

The advertiser acquires no more rights in the newspaper than the subscriber. He is entitled
to use the space for which he pays by the insertion of such material as is approved by the
editor. He gains no interest in any other part of the paper, and has no more claim to any space
in the editorial columns, than any other one of the public. To give him such space would be
unbusiness-like, and the extension of a preference which would be unjust to the rest of the
public. Nothing more quickly destroys the character of a journal, begets distrust of it, and
so reduces its value, than the well-founded suspicion that its editorial columns are the property
of advertisers. Even a religious journal will, after a while, be injured by this.

Yet it must be confessed that here is one of the greatest difficulties of modern journalism.
The newspaper must be cheap. It is, considering the immense cost to produce it, the cheapest
product ever offered to man. Most newspapers cost more than they sell for; they could not live
by subscriptions; for any profits, they certainly depend upon advertisements. The advertisements
depend upon the circulation; the circulation is likely to dwindle if too much space is occupied
by advertisements, or if it is evident that the paper belongs to its favored advertisers. The
counting-room desires to conciliate the advertisers; the editor looks to making a paper satisfactory
to his readers. Between this see-saw of the necessary subscriber and the necessary advertiser,
a good many newspapers go down. This difficulty would be measurably removed by the admission
of the truth that the newspaper is a strictly business enterprise, depending for success upon
a 'quid pro quo' between all parties connected with it, and upon integrity in its management.

Akin to the false notion that the newspaper is a sort of open channel that the public may use
as it chooses, is the conception of it as a charitable institution. The newspaper, which is
the property of a private person as much as a drug-shop is, is expected to perform for nothing
services which would be asked of no other private person. There is scarcely a charitable enterprise
to which it is not asked to contribute of its space, which is money, ten times more than other
persons in the community, who are ten times as able as the owner of the newspaper, contribute.
The journal is considered "mean" if it will not surrender its columns freely to notices and
announcements of this sort. If a manager has a new hen-coop or a new singer he wishes to introduce
to the public, he comes to the newspaper, expecting to have his enterprise extolled for nothing,
and probably never thinks that it would be just as proper for him to go to one of the regular
advertisers in the paper and ask him to give up his space. Anything, from a church picnic to
a brass-band concert for the benefit of the widow of the triangles, asks the newspaper to contribute.
The party in politics, whose principles the editor advocates, has no doubt of its rightful
claim upon him, not only upon the editorial columns, but upon the whole newspaper. It asks
without hesitation that the newspaper should take up its valuable space by printing hundreds
and often thousands of dollars' worth of political announcements in the course of a protracted
campaign, when it never would think of getting its halls, its speakers, and its brass bands,
free of expense. Churches, as well as parties, expect this sort of charity. I have known rich
churches, to whose members it was a convenience to have their Sunday and other services announced,
withdraw the announcements when the editor declined any longer to contribute a weekly fifty-cents'
worth of space. No private persons contribute so much to charity, in proportion to ability,
as the newspaper. Perhaps it will get credit for this in the next world: it certainly never
does in this.

The chief function of the newspaper is to collect and print the news. Upon the kind of news
that should be gathered and published, we shall remark farther on. The second function is to
elucidate the news, and comment on it, and show its relations. A third function is to furnish
reading-matter to the general public.

Nothing is so difficult for the manager as to know what news is: the instinct for it is a sort
of sixth sense. To discern out of the mass of materials collected not only what is most likely
to interest the public, but what phase and aspect of it will attract most attention, and the
relative importance of it; to tell the day before or at midnight what the world will be talking
about in the morning, and what it will want the fullest details of, and to meet that want in
advance,--requires a peculiar talent. There is always some topic on which the public wants
instant information. It is easy enough when the news is developed, and everybody is discussing
it, for the editor to fall in; but the success of the news printed depends upon a pre-apprehension
of all this. Some papers, which nevertheless print all the news, are always a day behind, do
not appreciate the popular drift till it has gone to something else, and err as much by clinging
to a subject after it is dead as by not taking it up before it was fairly born. The public
craves eagerly for only one thing at a time, and soon wearies of that; and it is to the newspaper's
profit to seize the exact point of a debate, the thrilling moment of an accident, the pith
of an important discourse; to throw itself into it as if life depended on it, and for the hour
to flood the popular curiosity with it as an engine deluges a fire.

Scarcely less important than promptly seizing and printing the news is the attractive arrangement
of it, its effective presentation to the eye. Two papers may have exactly the same important
intelligence, identically the same despatches: the one will be called bright, attractive, "newsy";
the other, dull and stupid.

We have said nothing yet about that, which, to most people, is the most important aspect of
the newspaper,--the editor's responsibility to the public for its contents. It is sufficient
briefly to say here, that it is exactly the responsibility of every other person in society,--the
full responsibility of his opportunity. He has voluntarily taken a position in which he can
do a great deal of good or a great deal of evil, and he, should be held and judged by his opportunity:
it is greater than that of the preacher, the teacher, the congressman, the physician. He occupies
the loftiest pulpit; he is in his teacher's desk seven days in the week; his voice can be heard
farther than that of the most lusty fog-horn politician; and often, I am sorry to say, his
columns outshine the shelves of the druggist in display of proprietary medicines. Nothing else
ever invented has the public attention as the newspaper has, or is an influence so constant
and universal. It is this large opportunity that has given the impression that the newspaper
is a public rather than a private enterprise.

It was a nebulous but suggestive remark that the newspaper occupies the borderland between
literature and common sense. Literature it certainly is not, and in the popular apprehension
it seems often too erratic and variable to be credited with the balance-wheel of sense; but
it must have something of the charm of the one, and the steadiness and sagacity of the other,
or it will fail to please. The model editor, I believe, has yet to appear. Notwithstanding
the traditional reputation of certain editors in the past, they could not be called great editors
by our standards; for the elements of modern journalism did not exist in their time. The old
newspaper was a broadside of stale news, with a moral essay attached. Perhaps Benjamin Franklin,
with our facilities, would have been very near the ideal editor. There was nothing he did not
wish to know; and no one excelled him in the ability to communicate what he found out to the
average mind. He came as near as anybody ever did to marrying common sense to literature: he
had it in him to make it sufficient for journalistic purposes. He was what somebody said Carlyle
was, and what the American editor ought to be,--a vernacular man.

The assertion has been made recently, publicly, and with evidence adduced, that the American
newspaper is the best in the world. It is like the assertion that the American government is
the best in the world; no doubt it is, for the American people.

Judged by broad standards, it may safely be admitted that the American newspaper is susceptible
of some improvement, and that it has something to learn from the journals of other nations.
We shall be better employed in correcting its weaknesses than in complacently contemplating
its excellences.

Let us examine it in its three departments already named,--its news, editorials, and miscellaneous
reading-matter.

In particularity and comprehensiveness of news-collecting, it may be admitted that the American
newspapers for a time led the world. I mean in the picking-up of local intelligence, and the
use of the telegraph to make it general. And with this arose the odd notion that news is made
important by the mere fact of its rapid transmission over the wire. The English journals followed,
speedily overtook, and some of the wealthier ones perhaps surpassed, the American in the use
of the telegraph, and in the presentation of some sorts of local news; not of casualties, and
small city and neighborhood events, and social gossip (until very recently), but certainly
in the business of the law courts, and the crimes and mishaps that come within police and legal
supervision. The leading papers of the German press, though strong in correspondence and in
discussion of affairs, are far less comprehensive in their news than the American or the English.
The French journals, we are accustomed to say, are not newspapers at all. And this is true
as we use the word. Until recently, nothing has been of importance to the Frenchman except
himself; and what happened outside of France, not directly affecting his glory, his profit,
or his pleasure, did not interest him: hence, one could nowhere so securely intrench himself
against the news of the world as behind the barricade of the Paris journals. But let us not
make a mistake in this matter. We may have more to learn from the Paris journals than from
any others. If they do not give what we call news--local news, events, casualties, the happenings
of the day,--they do give ideas, opinions; they do discuss politics, the social drift; they
give the intellectual ferment of Paris; they supply the material that Paris likes to talk over,
the badinage of the boulevard, the wit of the salon, the sensation of the stage, the new movement
in literature and in politics. This may be important, or it may be trivial: it is commonly
more interesting than much of that which we call news.

Our very facility and enterprise in news-gathering have overwhelmed our newspapers, and it
may be remarked that editorial discrimination has not kept pace with the facilities. We are
overpowered with a mass of undigested intelligence, collected for the mast part without regard
to value. The force of the newspaper is expended in extending these facilities, with little
regard to discriminating selection. The burden is already too heavy for the newspaper, and
wearisome to the public.

The publication of the news is the most important function of the paper. How is it gathered?
We must confess that it is gathered very much by chance. A drag-net is thrown out, and whatever
comes is taken. An examination into the process of collecting shows what sort of news we are
likely to get, and that nine-tenths of that printed is collected without much intelligence
exercised in selection. The alliance of the associated press with the telegraph company is
a fruitful source of news of an inferior quality. Of course, it is for the interest of the
telegraph company to swell the volume to be transmitted. It is impossible for the associated
press to have an agent in every place to which the telegraph penetrates: therefore the telegraphic
operators often act as its purveyors. It is for their interest to send something; and their
judgment of what is important is not only biased, but is formed by purely local standards.
Our news, therefore, is largely set in motion by telegraphic operators, by agents trained to
regard only the accidental, the startling, the abnormal, as news; it is picked up by sharp
prowlers about town, whose pay depends upon finding something, who are looking for something
spicy and sensational, or which may be dressed up and exaggerated to satisfy an appetite for
novelty and high flavor, and who regard casualties as the chief news. Our newspapers every
day are loaded with accidents, casualties, and crimes concerning people of whom we never heard
before and never shall hear again, the reading of which is of no earthly use to any human being.

What is news? What is it that an intelligent public should care to hear of and talk about?
Run your eye down the columns of your journal. There was a drunken squabble last night in a
New York groggery; there is a petty but carefully elaborated village scandal about a foolish
girl; a woman accidentally dropped her baby out of a fourth-story window in Maine; in Connecticut,
a wife, by mistake, got into the same railway train with another woman's husband; a child fell
into a well in New Jersey; there is a column about a peripatetic horse-race, which exhibits,
like a circus, from city to city; a laborer in a remote town in Pennsylvania had a sunstroke;
there is an edifying dying speech of a murderer, the love-letter of a suicide, the set-to of
a couple of congressmen; and there are columns about a gigantic war of half a dozen politicians
over the appointment of a sugar-gauger. Granted that this pabulum is desired by the reader,
why not save the expense of transmission by having several columns of it stereotyped, to be
reproduced at proper intervals? With the date changed, it would always, have its original value,
and perfectly satisfy the demand, if a demand exists, for this sort of news.

