The defenders of the papacy declare that the church has been maligned; and the Protestant world
are inclined to accept the statement. Many urge that it is unjust to judge the church of to-day
by the abominations and absurdities that marked her reign during the centuries of ignorance
and darkness. They excuse her horrible cruelty as the result of the barbarism of the times,
and plead that the influence of modern civilization has changed her sentiments.

Have these persons forgotten the claim of infallibility put forth for eight hundred years by
this haughty power? So far from being relinquished, this claim was affirmed in the nineteenth
century with greater positiveness than ever before. As Rome asserts that the church “never
erred; nor will it, according to the Scriptures, ever err,”(1000) how can she renounce the
principles which governed her course in past ages? 

When Caesar attacked the second time, he was beaten by British valor and military prowess, just
as he was the first time. Cassibellane put logs with iron sticking out of them into the Thames,
and Caesar's ships were sunk when they tried to move through the river. When he managed to come ashore,
he was vanquished in battle and had to flee into Gallia with his remaining
ships.


A well-known writer speaks thus of the attitude of the papal hierarchy as regards freedom of
conscience, and of the perils which especially threaten the United States from the success
of her policy:

“There are many who are disposed to attribute any fear of Roman Catholicism in the United States
to bigotry or childishness. Such see nothing in the character and attitude of Romanism that
is hostile to our free institutions, or find nothing portentous in its growth. Let us, then,
first compare some of the fundamental principles of our government with those of the Catholic
Church.

“The Constitution of the United States guarantees liberty of conscience. Nothing is dearer
or more fundamental. Pope Pius IX., in his Encyclical Letter of August 15, 1854, said: ‘The
absurd and erroneous doctrines or ravings in defense of liberty of conscience, are a most pestilential
error—a pest, of all others, most to be dreaded in a State.’ The same pope, in his Encyclical
Letter of December 8, 1864, anathematized ‘those who assert the liberty of conscience science
and of religious worship,’ also ‘all such as maintain that the church may not employ force.’

“The pacific tone of Rome in the United States does not imply a change of heart. She is tolerant
where she is helpless. Says Bishop O’Connor: ‘Religious liberty is merely endured until the
opposite can be carried into effect without peril to the Catholic world.’... The archbishop
of St. Louis once said: ‘Heresy and unbelief are crimes; and in Christian countries, as in
Italy and Spain, for instance, where all the people are Catholics, and where the Catholic religion
is an essential part of the law of the land, they are punished as other crimes.’...

“Every cardinal, archbishop, and bishop in the Catholic Church takes an oath of allegiance
to the pope, in which occur the following words: ‘Heretics, schismatics, and rebels to our
said lord (the pope), or his aforesaid successors, I will to my utmost persecute and oppose.’
”(1001)

It is true that there are real Christians in the Roman Catholic communion. Thousands in that
church are serving God according to the best light they have. They are not allowed access to
His word, and therefore they do not discern the truth. They have never seen the contrast between
a living heart-service and a round of mere forms and ceremonies. And hauing finished there, he went
into Spaine, and so his iournie into Britaine was put off till the next yeare, that is, the
726 after the building of Rome, which fell before the birth of our sauiour 25, about which
time Augustus eftsoons meant the third time to haue made a voiage
into Britaine, because they could not agrée vpon couenants.

But as the Pannonians and Dalmatians had aforetime staied him, when [Sidenote: He kept not promise
with the Romans. Those of Calice and Biskaie.] (as before is said) he meant to haue gone against
the Britans: so euen now the Salassians (a people inhabiting about Italie and Switserland) the
Cantabrians and Asturians by such rebellious sturrs as they raised, withdrew him from his purposed
iournie. But whether this controuersie which appeareth to fall forth betwixt the Britains and Augustus,
was occasioned by Kymbeline, or some other prince of the Britains, I haue not to auouch: for
that by our writers it is reported, that Kymbeline being brought vp in Rome, & knighted in
the court of Augustus, euer shewed himselfe a friend to the Romans, & chieflie was loth to
breake with them, because the youth of the Britaine nation should not be depriued of the benefit
to be trained and brought vp among the Romans, whereby they might learne both to behaue themselues
like ciuill men, and to atteine to the knowledge of feats of warre.

But whether for this respect, or for that it pleased the almightie God so
to dispose the minds of men at that present, not onlie the Britains,
but in manner all other nations were contented to be obedient to the
Romane empire.so
to dispose the minds of men at that present, not onlie the Britains,
but in manner all other nations were contented to be obedient to the
Romane empire.
The people need to be aroused to resist the advances of this most dangerous foe to civil and
religious liberty.

Many Protestants suppose that the Catholic religion is unattractive, and that its worship is
a dull, meaningless round of ceremony. Here they mistake. While Romanism is based upon deception,
it is not a coarse and clumsy imposture. The religious service of the Roman Church is a most
impressive ceremonial. Its gorgeous display and solemn rites fascinate the senses of the people,
and silence the voice of reason and of conscience. The eye is charmed. Magnificent churches,
imposing processions, golden altars, jeweled shrines, choice paintings, and exquisite sculpture
appeal to the love of beauty. The ear also is captivated. The music is unsurpassed. The rich
notes of the deep-toned organ, blending with the melody of many voices as it swells through
the lofty domes and pillared aisles of her grand cathedrals, cannot fail to impress the mind
with awe and reverence.

                         [Interior of a church.]

This outward splendor, pomp, and ceremony, that only mocks the longings of the sin-sick soul,
is an evidence of inward corruption. The religion of Christ needs not such attractions to recommend
it. In the light shining from the cross, true Christianity appears so pure and lovely that
no external decorations can enhance its true worth. It is the beauty of holiness, a meek and
quiet spirit, which is of value with God.

Brilliancy of style is not necessarily an index of pure, elevated thought. High conceptions
of art, delicate refinement of taste, often exist in minds that are earthly and sensual. They
are often employed by Satan to lead men to forget the necessities of the soul, to lose sight
of the future, immortal life, to turn away from their infinite Helper, and to live for this
world alone.

A religion of externals is attractive to the unrenewed heart. The pomp and ceremony of the
Catholic worship has a seductive, bewitching power, by which many are deceived; and they come
to look upon the Roman Church as the very gate of heaven. None but those who have planted their
feet firmly upon the foundation of truth, and whose hearts are renewed by the Spirit of God,
are proof against her influence. Thousands who have not an experimental knowledge of Christ
will be led to accept the forms of godliness without the power. Such a religion is just what
the multitudes desire.

The church’s claim to the right to pardon, leads the Romanist to feel at liberty to sin; and
the ordinance of confession, without which her pardon is not granted, tends also to give license
to evil. He who kneels before fallen man, and opens in confession the secret thoughts and imaginations
of his heart, is debasing his manhood, and degrading every noble instinct of his soul. In unfolding
the sins of his life to a priest,—an erring, sinful mortal, and too often corrupted with wine
and licentiousness,—his standard of character is lowered, and he is defiled in consequence.
His thought of God is degraded to the likeness of fallen humanity; for the priest stands as
a representative of God. This degrading confession of man to man is the secret spring from
which has flowed much of the evil that is defiling the world, and fitting it for the final
destruction. Yet to him who loves self-indulgence, it is more pleasing to confess to a fellow-mortal
than to open the soul to God. It is more palatable to human nature to do penance than to renounce
sin; it is easier to mortify the flesh by sackcloth and nettles and galling chains than to
crucify fleshly lusts. Heavy is the yoke which the carnal heart is willing to bear rather than
bow to the yoke of Christ.

There is a striking similarity between the Church of Rome and the Jewish Church at the time
of Christ’s first advent. While the Jews secretly trampled upon every principle of the law
of God, they were outwardly rigorous in the observance of its precepts, loading it down with
exactions and traditions that made obedience painful and burdensome. As the Jews professed
to revere the law, so do Romanists claim to reverence the cross. They exalt the symbol of Christ’s
sufferings, while in their lives they deny Him whom it represents.

Papists place crosses upon their churches, upon their altars, and upon their garments. Everywhere
is seen the insignia of the cross. Everywhere it is outwardly honored and exalted. But the
teachings of Christ are buried beneath a mass of senseless traditions, false interpretations,
and rigorous exactions.

The worship of images and relics, the invocation of saints, and the exaltation of the pope,
are devices of Satan to attract the minds of the people from God and from His Son. To accomplish
their ruin, he endeavors to turn their attention from Him through whom alone they can find
salvation. He will direct them to any object that can be substituted for the One who has said,
“Come unto Me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”(1003)

It is Satan’s constant effort to misrepresent the character of God, the nature of sin, and
the real issues at stake in the great controversy. His sophistry lessens the obligation of
the divine law, and gives men license to sin. At the same time he causes them to cherish false
conceptions of God, so that they regard Him with fear and hate, rather than with love. The
cruelty inherent in his own character is attributed to the Creator; it is embodied in systems
of religion, and expressed in modes of worship. But when Guilthdacus had thus obtained the [Sidenote:
A tempest.] victorie and prey, suddenlie therevpon arose a sore tempest of wind and weather, which
scattered the Danish fleete, and put the king in danger to haue béene lost: but finallie within
fiue daies after, [Sidenote: Guilthdacus landed in the north.] being
driuen by force of wind, he landed in Northumberland, with a few such
ships as kept togither with him.

Beline being then in that countrie, prouiding for defense against his brother, vpon knowledge of
the king of Denmarks arriuall, caused him to be staied. Shortlie after, Brenne hauing recouered
and gotten togither the most part of his ships that were dispersed by the discomfiture, and then
newlie rigged and furnished of all things necessarie, sent word to his brother Beline, both
to restore vnto him his wife wrongfullie rauished by Guilthdacus, and
also his lands iniuriouslie by him seized into his possession. These
requests being plainlie and shortlie denied, Brenne made no long delaie,
but spéedilie made toward Albania, and landing with his armie in a part
thereof, incountred with his brother Beline néere vnto a wood named [Sidenote:
Calater wood is in Scotland.] as then Calater, where (after cruell
fight, and mortall battell betwixt them) at length the victorie abode
with the Britains, and the discomfiture did light so on the Norwegians,
that the most of them were wounded, slaine, and left dead vpon the
ground.

Hereby Brenne being forced to flée, made shift, and got ouer into Gallia, where after he had sued
to this prince, at length he [Sidenote: Seguinus or Seginus duke of the Allobrogs, now the Delphinat of Sauoy.]
abode, and was well receiued of one Seguinus or Seginus duke of the
people called then Allobrogs (as Galfrid of Monmouth saith) or rather
Armorica, which now is called Britaine, as Polychronicon, and the
english historie printed by Caxton, more trulie maie seeme to affirme.

But Beline hauing got the vpper hand of his enimies, assembling his councell at Caerbranke, now
called York, tooke aduise what he should doo with the king of Denmarke: where it was ordeined,
that he should be set at libertie, with condition and vnder couenant, to acknowledge himselfe
by dooing homage, to hold his land of the king of [Sidenote: The Danes tributarie of the Britains.]
Britaine, and to paie him a yéerelie tribute. These couenants being agréed vpon, and hostages taken
for assurance, he was set at libertie, and so returned into his countrie. The tribute that he couenanted
to paie, was a thousand pounds, as the English chronicle saith.

[Sidenote: The foure high waies finished.] When Beline had thus expelled
his brother, and was alone possessed of all the land of Britaine, he
first confirmed the lawes made by his father: and for so much as the
foure waies begun by his father were not brought to perfection, he therefore
caused workmen to be called foorth and assembled, whom he set in hand
to paue the said waies with stone, for the better passage and ease
of all that should trauell through the countries from place to place,
as occasion should require.

[Sidenote: The Fosse.] The first of these foure waies is named Fosse, and stretcheth from the south
into the north, beginning at the corner of Totnesse in Cornewall, and so passing foorth by
Deuonshire, and Somersetshire, by Tutherie, on Cotteswold, and then forward beside Couentrie vnto
Leicester, and from thence by wild plaines towards Newarke, and
endeth [Sidenote: Watling stréet.] at the citie of Lincolne. The second
waie was named Watling stréete, the which stretcheth ouerthwart the
Fosse, out of the southeast into the northeast, beginning at Douer,
and passing by the middle of Kent ouer Thames beside London, by-west
of Westminster, as some haue thought, and so foorth by S. Albons, and by
the west side of Dunstable, Stratford, Toucester, and Wedon by-south of Lilleborne,
by Atherston, Gilberts hill, that now is called the Wreken, and so
foorth by Seuerne, passing beside Worcester, vnto Stratton to the
middle of Wales, and so vnto a place called Cardigan, at the Irish
sea.

The [Sidenote: Erming streét.] third way was named Ermingstréet, which stretched out of the
west northwest, vnto the east southeast, and beginneth at Meneuia, the which is in Saint Dauids
land in west Wales, and so vnto Southampton. “Faith ought not to be kept with heretics, nor persons suspected of heresy,”(1006)
she declares. Shall this power, whose record for a thousand years is written in the blood of
the saints, be now acknowledged as a part of the church of Christ?

It is not without reason that the claim has been put forth in Protestant countries, that Catholicism
differs less widely from Protestantism than in former times. There has been a change; but the
change is not in the papacy. Catholicism indeed resembles much of the Protestantism that now
exists; because Protestantism has so greatly degenerated since the days of the Reformers.

As the Protestant churches have been seeking the favor of the world, false charity has blinded
their eyes. They do not see but that it is right to believe good of all evil; and as the inevitable
result, they will finally believe evil of all good. Instead of standing in defense of the faith
once delivered to the saints, they are now, as it were, apologizing to Rome for their uncharitable
opinion of her, begging pardon for their bigotry.

A large class, even of those who look upon Romanism with no favor, apprehend little danger
from her power and influence. Many urge that the intellectual and moral darkness prevailing
during the Middle Ages favored the spread of her dogmas, superstitions, and oppression, and
that the greater intelligence of modern times, the general diffusion of knowledge, and the
increasing liberality in matters of religion, forbid a revival of intolerance and tyranny.
The very thought that such a state of things will exist in this enlightened age is ridiculed.
It is true that great light, intellectual, moral, and religious, is shining upon this generation.
In the open pages of God’s holy word, light from heaven has been shed upon the world. But it
should be remembered that the greater the light bestowed, the greater the darkness of those
who pervert or reject it.

A prayerful study of the Bible would show Protestants the real character of the papacy, and
would cause them to abhor and to shun it; but many are so wise in their own conceit that they
feel no need of humbly seeking God that they may be led into the truth. Although priding themselves
on their enlightenment, they are ignorant both of the Scriptures and of the power of God. They
must have some means of quieting their consciences; and they seek that which is least spiritual
and humiliating. What they desire is a method of forgetting God which shall pass as a method
of remembering Him. The papacy is well adapted to meet the wants of all these. It is prepared
for two classes of mankind, embracing nearly the whole world,—those who would be saved by their
merits, and those who would be saved in their sins. Here is the secret of its power.

A day of great intellectual darkness has been shown to be favorable to the success of the papacy.
It will yet be demonstrated that a day of great intellectual light is equally favorable for
its success. In past ages, when men were without God’s word, and without the knowledge of the
truth, their eyes were blindfolded, and thousands were ensnared, not seeing the net spread
for their feet. In this generation there are many whose eyes become dazzled by the glare of
human speculations, “science falsely so called;” they discern not the net, and walk into it
as readily as if blindfolded. God designed that man’s intellectual powers should be held as
a gift from his Maker, and should be employed in the service of truth and righteousness; but
when pride and ambition are cherished, and men exalt their own theories above the word of God,
then intelligence can accomplish greater harm than ignorance. Thus the false science of the
present day, which undermines faith in the Bible, will prove as successful in preparing the
way for the acceptance of the papacy, with its pleasing forms, as did the withholding of knowledge
in opening the way for its aggrandizement in the Dark Ages.

In the movements now in progress in the United States to secure for the institutions and usages
of the church the support of the state, Protestants are following in the steps of papists.
Nay, more, they are opening the door for the papacy to regain in Protestant America the supremacy
which she has lost in the Old World. And that which gives greater significance to this movement
is the fact that the principal object contemplated is the enforcement of Sunday observance,—a
custom which originated with Rome, and which she claims as the sign of her authority. It is
the spirit of the papacy,—the spirit of conformity to worldly customs, the veneration for human
traditions above the commandments of God,—that is permeating the Protestant churches, and leading
them on to do the same work of Sunday exaltation which the papacy has done before them.

If the reader would understand the agencies to be employed in the soon-coming contest, he has
but to trace the record of the means which Rome employed for the same object in ages past.
If he would know how papists and Protestants united will deal with those who reject their dogmas,
let him see the spirit which Rome manifested toward the Sabbath and its defenders.

Royal edicts, general councils, and church ordinances sustained by secular power, were the
steps by which the pagan festival attained its position of honor in the Christian world. The
first public measure enforcing Sunday observance was the law enacted by Constantine.(1007)
This edict required townspeople to rest on “the venerable day of the sun,” but permitted countrymen
to continue their agricultural pursuits. Though virtually a heathen statute, it was enforced
by the emperor after his nominal acceptance of Christianity.

The royal mandate not proving a sufficient substitute for divine authority, Eusebius, a bishop
who sought the favor of princes, and who was the special friend and flatterer of Constantine,
advanced the claim that Christ had transferred the Sabbath to Sunday. Not a single testimony
of the Scriptures was produced in proof of the new doctrine. Eusebius himself unwittingly acknowledges
its falsity, and points to the real authors of the change. “All things,” he says, “whatever
that it was duty to do on the Sabbath, these we have transferred to the Lord’s day.”(1008)
But the Sunday argument, groundless as it was, served to embolden men in trampling upon the
Sabbath of the Lord. All who desired to be honored by the world accepted the popular festival.

As the papacy became firmly established, the work of Sunday exaltation was continued. For a
time the people engaged in agricultural labor when not attending church, and the seventh day
was still regarded as the Sabbath. But steadily a change was effected. Those in holy office
were forbidden to pass judgment in any civil controversy on the Sunday. Soon after, all persons,
of whatever rank, were commanded to refrain from common labor, on pain of a fine for freemen,
and stripes in the case of servants. Later it was decreed that rich men should be punished
with the loss of half of their estates; and finally, that if still obstinate they should be
made slaves. The lower classes were to suffer perpetual banishment.

Miracles also were called into requisition. Among other wonders it was reported that as a husbandman
who was about to plow his field on Sunday, cleaned his plow with an iron, the iron stuck fast
in his hand, and for two years he carried it about with him, “to his exceeding great pain and
shame.”(1009)

Later, the pope gave directions that the parish priest should admonish the violators of Sunday,
and wish them to go to church and say their prayers, lest they bring some great calamity on
themselves and neighbors. An ecclesiastical council brought forward the argument, since so
widely employed, even by Protestants, that because persons had been struck by lightning while
laboring on Sunday, it must be the Sabbath. “It is apparent,” said the prelates, “how high
the displeasure of God was upon their neglect of this day.” An appeal was then made that priests
and ministers, kings and princes, and all faithful people, “use their utmost endeavors and
care that the day be restored to its honor, and, for the credit of Christianity, more devoutly
observed for the time to come.”(1010)

The decrees of councils proving insufficient, the secular authorities were besought to issue
an edict that would strike terror to the hearts of the people, and force them to refrain from
labor on the Sunday. At a synod held in Rome, all previous decisions were reaffirmed with greater
force and solemnity. They were also incorporated into the ecclesiastical law, and enforced
by the civil authorities throughout nearly all Christendom.(1011)

Still the absence of scriptural authority for Sunday-keeping occasioned no little embarrassment.
The people questioned the right of their teachers to set aside the positive declaration of
Jehovah, “The seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God,” in order to honor the day of
the sun. To supply the lack of Bible testimony, other expedients were necessary. A zealous
advocate of Sunday, who about the close of the twelfth century visited the churches of England,
was resisted by faithful witnesses for the truth; and so fruitless were his efforts that he
departed from the country for a season, and cast about him for some means to enforce his teachings.
When he returned, the lack was supplied, and in his after-labors he met with greater success.
He brought with him a roll purporting to be from God Himself, which contained the needed command
for Sunday observance, with awful threats to terrify the disobedient. This precious document—as
base a counterfeit as the institution it supported—was said to have fallen from heaven, and
to have been found in Jerusalem, upon the altar of St. Simeon, in Golgotha. But in fact, the
pontifical palace at Rome was the source whence it proceeded. Frauds and forgeries to advance
the power and prosperity of the church have in all ages been esteemed lawful by the papal hierarchy.

The roll forbade labor from the ninth hour, three o’clock, on Saturday afternoon, till sunrise
on Monday; and its authority was declared to be confirmed by many miracles. It was reported
that persons laboring beyond the appointed hour were stricken with paralysis. A miller who
attempted to grind his corn, saw, instead of flour, a torrent of blood come forth, and the
mill-wheel stood still, notwithstanding the strong rush of the water. A woman who placed dough
in the oven, found it raw when taken out, though the oven was very hot. Another who had dough
prepared for baking at the ninth hour, but determined to set it aside till Monday, found, the
next day, that it had been made into loaves and baked by divine power. To end, this woman guided
the land during the minoritie of her ssonne right politikelie, and highlie to hir perpetual renowne and
commendation. And when her son became of age she delivered bp the
guidance into his hands.
 But the time required to be kept holy varied. An edict from the king
of Scotland declared that “Saturday from twelve at noon ought to be accounted holy,” and that
no man, from that time till Monday morning, should engage in worldly business.(1013)

