Within the Tides

Contents:

The Planter of Malata The Partner The Inn of the Two Witches Because of the Dollars

THE PLANTER OF MALATA

CHAPTER I

In the private editorial office of the principal newspaper in a great colonial city two men
were talking.  They were both young. The stouter of the two, fair, and with more of an urban
look about him, was the editor and part-owner of the important newspaper.

The other's name was Renouard.  That he was exercised in his mind about something was evident
on his fine bronzed face.  He was a lean, lounging, active man.  The journalist continued the
conversation.

"And so you were dining yesterday at old Dunster's."

He used the word old not in the endearing sense in which it is sometimes applied to intimates,
but as a matter of sober fact.  The Dunster in question was old.  He had been an eminent colonial
statesman, but had now retired from active politics after a tour in Europe and a lengthy stay
in England, during which he had had a very good press indeed.  The colony was proud of him.

"Yes.  I dined there," said Renouard.  "Young Dunster asked me just as I was going out of his
office.  It seemed to be like a sudden thought.  And yet I can't help suspecting some purpose
behind it. He was very pressing.  He swore that his uncle would be very pleased to see me.
Said his uncle had mentioned lately that the granting to me of the Malata concession was the
last act of his official life."

"Very touching.  The old boy sentimentalises over the past now and then."

"I really don't know why I accepted," continued the other. "Sentiment does not move me very
easily.  Old Dunster was civil to me of course, but he did not even inquire how I was getting
on with my silk plants.  Forgot there was such a thing probably.  I must say there were more
people there than I expected to meet.  Quite a big party."

"I was asked," remarked the newspaper man.  "Only I couldn't go. But when did you arrive from
Malata?"

"I arrived yesterday at daylight.  I am anchored out there in the bay--off Garden Point.  I
was in Dunster's office before he had finished reading his letters.  Have you ever seen young
Dunster reading his letters?  I had a glimpse of him through the open door. He holds the paper
in both hands, hunches his shoulders up to his ugly ears, and brings his long nose and his
thick lips on to it like a sucking apparatus.  A commercial monster."

"Here we don't consider him a monster," said the newspaper man looking at his visitor thoughtfully.

"Probably not.  You are used to see his face and to see other faces.  I don't know how it is
that, when I come to town, the appearance of the people in the street strike me with such force.
They seem so awfully expressive."

"And not charming."

"Well--no.  Not as a rule.  The effect is forcible without being clear. . . . I know that you
think it's because of my solitary manner of life away there."

"Yes.  I do think so.  It is demoralising.  You don't see any one for months at a stretch.
You're leading an unhealthy life."

The other hardly smiled and murmured the admission that true enough it was a good eleven months
since he had been in town last.

"You see," insisted the other.  "Solitude works like a sort of poison.  And then you perceive
suggestions in faces--mysterious and forcible, that no sound man would be bothered with.  Of
course you do."

Geoffrey Renouard did not tell his journalist friend that the suggestions of his own face,
the face of a friend, bothered him as much as the others.  He detected a degrading quality
in the touches of age which every day adds to a human countenance.  They moved and disturbed
him, like the signs of a horrible inward travail which was frightfully apparent to the fresh
eye he had brought from his isolation in Malata, where he had settled after five strenuous
years of adventure and exploration.

"It's a fact," he said, "that when I am at home in Malata I see no one consciously.  I take
the plantation boys for granted."

"Well, and we here take the people in the streets for granted.  And that's sanity."

The visitor said nothing to this for fear of engaging a discussion. What he had come to seek
in the editorial office was not controversy, but information.  Yet somehow he hesitated to
approach the subject.  Solitary life makes a man reticent in respect of anything in the nature
of gossip, which those to whom chatting about their kind is an everyday exercise regard as
the commonest use of speech.

"You very busy?" he asked.

The Editor making red marks on a long slip of printed paper threw the pencil down.

"No.  I am done.  Social paragraphs.  This office is the place where everything is known about
everybody--including even a great deal of nobodies.  Queer fellows drift in and out of this
room. Waifs and strays from home, from up-country, from the Pacific. And, by the way, last
time you were here you picked up one of that sort for your assistant--didn't you?"

"I engaged an assistant only to stop your preaching about the evils of solitude," said Renouard
hastily; and the pressman laughed at the half-resentful tone.  His laugh was not very loud,
but his plump person shook all over.  He was aware that his younger friend's deference to his
advice was based only on an imperfect belief in his wisdom--or his sagacity.  But it was he
who had first helped Renouard in his plans of exploration:  the five-years' programme of scientific
adventure, of work, of danger and endurance, carried out with such distinction and rewarded
modestly with the lease of Malata island by the frugal colonial government. To guard against the danger
of fires, each municipality encouraged its citizens to build their houses of
stone and to keep a tub full of water before every building; and
in each district a special official was equipped with a hook and cord
for pulling down houses on fire.

[Sidenote: Freedom of the Towns.] [Sidenote: Town Charters] Originally many a town had belonged to
some nobleman's extensive manor and its inhabitants had been under much the same servile obligations to the
lord as were the strictly rural serfs. But with the lapse of time and
the growth of the towns, the townsmen or burghers had begun a struggle
for freedom from their feudal lords.

They did not want to pay servile dues to a baron, but preferred to
substitute a fixed annual payment for individual obligations; they
besought the right to manage their market; they wished to have cases
at law tried in a court of their own rather than in the feudal court
over which the nobleman presided; and they demanded the right to pay
all taxes in a lump sum for the town, themselves assessing and collecting
the share of each citizen.

Rising from the midst of tumble-down dwellings might stand a magnificent
cathedral, town-hall, or gild building. In such cases it was necessary
for the gild to ransom the imprisoned "brother" and, if possible,
to punish the persons who had done the injury, so that thereafter
the liberties of the gild members would be respected. That the business
of the gild might be increased, it was often desirable to enter into
special arrangements with neighboring cities whereby the rights, lives,
and properties of gildsmen were guaranteed; and the gild as a whole
was responsible for the debts of any of its members.

[Sidenote: Regulative] The most important duty of the gild had been the regulation
of the home market.

Burdensome restrictions were laid upon the stranger who attempted
to utilize the advantages of the market without sharing the expense
of maintenance.

No goods were allowed to be carried away from the city if the townsmen
wished to buy; and a tax, called in France the octroi, was levied on goods
brought into the town. [Footnote: The octroi is still collected in
Paris.] Moreover, a conviction prevailed that the gild was morally
bound to enforce honest straightforward methods of business; and the
"wardens" appointed by the gild to supervise the market endeavored
to prevent, as dishonest practices, "forestalling"

It was the enterprise of the cities, with their growing industries and commerce,
which brought about the Commercial Revolution; and to the development of commerce,
industry, and the towns, we now must turn our attention. TOWNS ON
THE EVE OF THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION [Sidenote: Trade and the Towns]
Except for the wealthy Italian city-states and a few other cities
which traced their history back to Roman times, most European towns,
it must be remembered, dated only from the later middle ages.

At first there was little excuse for their existence except to sell to farmers salt, fish, iron,
and a few plows. But with the increase of commerce, which, as we shall
see, especially marked the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth
centuries, more merchants traveled through the country, ways of spending
money multiplied, and the little agricultural villages learned to
look on the town as the place to buy not only luxuries but such tools,
clothing, and shoes as could be manufactured more conveniently by
skillful town artisans than by clumsy rustics.

The towns, moreover, became exchanges where surplus farm products
could be marketed, where wine could be bartered for wool, or wheat
for flax.

And as the towns grew in size, the prosperous citizens proved to be the
best customers for foreign luxuries, and foreign trade grew apace. Town, trade,
and industry thus worked together: trade stimulated industry, industry
assisted trade, and the town profited by both.

And the merchant gild had then possessed the widest functions. (buying
outside of the regular market), "engrossing" (cornering the market),
[Footnote: The idea that "combinations in restraint of trade" are wrong quite
possibly goes back to this abhorrence of engrossing.] and "regrating"

(retailing at higher than market price). The dishonest green grocer
was not allowed to use a peck-measure with false bottom, for weighing
and measuring were done by officials. Cheats were fined heavily and,
if they persisted in their evil ways, they might be expelled from
the gild.

These merchant gilds, with their social, protective, and regulative
functions, had first begun to be important in the eleventh century.

In England,
where their growth was most rapid, 82 out of the total of 102 towns
had merchant gilds by the end of the thirteenth century.

Travel was largely on horseback,
and what few commodities were carried from place to place were transported
by pack-horses. Only a few old soldiers, and possibly a priest, had
traveled very much; they were the only geographies and the only books
of travel which the village possessed, for few peasants could read
or write.

Self-sufficient and secluded from the outer world, the rural village
went on treasuring its traditions, keeping its old customs, century
after century.

The country instinctively distrusted all novelties; it always preferred
old ways to new; it was heartily conservative.

Country-folk did not discover America. [Sidenote: Earlier Functions of
the Merchant Gild.] [Sidenote: Social] Its social and religious functions,
inherited from much earlier bodies, consisted in paying some special
honor to a patron saint, in giving aid to members in sickness or misfortune,
attending funerals, and also in the more enjoyable meetings when the
freely flowing bowl enlivened the transaction of gild business.

[Sidenote: Protective] As a protective organization, the gild had
been particularly effective. Backed by the combined forces of all
the gildsmen, it was able to assert itself against the lord who claimed
manorial rights over the town, and to insist that a runaway serf who
had lived in the town for a year and a day should not be dragged back
to perform his servile labor on the manor, but should be recognized
as a freeman.

The protection of the gild was accorded also to townsmen on their travels.
[Footnote: Several important places, such as London, Colchester, and
Norwich, belonged to the small minority without merchant gilds.]
On the Continent many towns, especially in Germany, had quite different
arrangements, and where merchant gilds existed, they were often exclusive
and selfish groups of merchants in a single branch of business.

[Sidenote: Decline of Merchant Guilds] With the expansion of trade and industry in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries the rule of the old merchant gilds, instead
of keeping pace with the times, became oppressive, limited, or merely nominal.
The craft gilds, with all their imperfections, were to continue in power
awhile longer, slowly giving away as new trades arose outside of
their control, gradually succumbing in competition with capitalists
who refused to be bound by gild rules and who were to evolve a new
"domestic system," [Footnote: See Vol.

II, ch xviii.] and slowly suffering diminution of prestige through
royal interference.

[Sidenote: Life in the Towns] In the year 1500 the European towns
displayed little uniformity in government or in the amount of liberty
they possessed.

Some were petty republics subject only in a very vague way to an extraneous
potentate; some merely paid annual tribute to a lord; some were administered
by officers of a king or feudal magnate; others were controlled by
oligarchical commercial associations.

But of the general appearance and life of sixteenth-century towns, it is possible to secure a more uniform
notion.

It must be borne in mind that the towns were comparatively small, for the great bulk of people still lived
in the country. At night respectable town-life was practically at a standstill: the gates were shut; the
curfew sounded; no street-lamps dispelled the darkness, except possibly an occasional lantern which an
altruistic or festive townsman might hang in his front-window; and
no efficient police-force existed-- merely a handful of townsmen
were drafted from time to time as "watchmen" to preserve order, and
the "night watch" was famed rather for its ability to sleep or to
roister than to protect life or purse.

Under these circumstances the citizen who would escape an assault by ruffians or thieves remained prudently
indoors at night and retired early to bed. Picturesque and quaint the sixteenth-century town may have
been; but it was also an uncomfortable and an unhealthful place
in which to live.

How keenly the cold pierced the dark huts of the poorest, is hard for us to
imagine. The winter diet of salt meat, the lack of vegetables, the chronic
filth and squalor, and the sorry ignorance of all laws of health opened
the way to disease and contagion.

And if the crops failed, famine was added to plague.

On the other hand we must not forget that the tenement-houses of our great
cities have been crowded in the nineteenth century with people more
miserable than always was serf of the middle ages.

The serf, at any rate, had the open air instead of a factory in which to work. When times were good,
he had grain and meat in plenty, and possibly wine or cider, and he hardly envied the tapestried chambers,
the bejeweled clothes, and the spiced foods of the nobility, for he looked upon them as belonging
to a different world. In one place nobleman and peasant met on a common footing-- in the village
church. There, on Sundays and feast-days, they came together as Christians to hear Mass; and afterwards,
perhaps, holiday games and dancing on the green, benignantly patronized by the lord's family, helped
the common folk to forget their labors. The village priest, [Footnote: Usually
very different mate from the higher clergy, who had large landed
estates of their own, the parish priests had but modest incomes from
the tithes of their parishioners and frequently eked out a living
by toiling on allotted patches of ground.

The regulation of the processes of manufacture, once designed to
keep up the standard of skill, came in time to be a powerful hindrance
to technical improvements; and in the method as well as in the amount
of his work, the enterprising master found himself handicapped. Here
and there a prosperous merchant would have his luxurious home, built
in what we now call the Gothic style, with pointed windows and gables,
and, to save space in a walled town, with the second story projecting
out over the street.

The streets
were usually in deplorable condition. There might be one or two broad
highways, but the rest were mere alleys, devious, dark, and dirty.

Often their narrowness made them impassable for wagons.

In places the pedestrian waded gallantly through mud and garbage; pigs grunted ponderously as he pushed them
aside; chickens ran under his feet; and occasionally a dead dog obstructed the way. There were no sidewalks,
and only the main thoroughfares were paved. Dirt and filth and refuse were ordinarily
disposed of only when a heaven-sent rain washed them down the open
gutters constructed along the middle, or on each side, of a street.

Not only was there no general sewerage for the town, but there was likewise no public water supply. In many of
the garden plots at the rear of the low-roofed dwellings were dug wells
which provided water for the family; and the visitor, before he left
the town, would be likely to meet with water-sellers calling out their
ware.

In those days all strangers were regarded as suspicious persons,
and not infrequently when a merchant of the gild traveled to another
town he would be set upon and robbed or cast into prison.

A town of 5000 inhabitants was then accounted large; and even the largest
places, like Nuremberg, Strassburg, London, Paris, and Bruges, would
have been only small cities in our eyes. The approach to an ordinary
city of the time lay through suburbs, farms, and garden-plots, for the townsman
still supplemented industry with small-scale agriculture.

Usually the town itself was inclosed by strong walls, and admission
was to be gained only by passing through the gates, where one might
be accosted by soldiers and forced to pay toll.

Inside the walls were clustered houses of every description. Where the merchant gilds became oppressive
oligarchical associations, as they did in Germany and elsewhere on the Continent, they lost their
power by the revolt of the more democratic "craft gilds." In England
specialized control of industry and trade by craft gilds, journeymen's
gilds, and dealers'associations gradually took the place of the general
supervision of the older merchant gild.

After suffering the loss of its vital functions, the merchant gild
by the sixteenth century either quietly succumbed or lived on with
power in a limited branch of trade, or continued as an honorary organization
with occasional feasts, or, and this was especially true in England,
it became practically identical with the town corporation, from which
originally it had been distinct.

[Sidenote: Industry: the Craft Guilds] Alongside of the merchant gilds, which had been associated with
the growth of commerce and the rise of towns, were other guilds connected
with the growth of industry, which retained their importance long
after 1500.

These were the craft gilds. [Footnote: The craft gild was also called
a company, or a mistery, or metier (French), or Zunft (German).] Springing
into prominence in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, the craft
gild sometimes, as in Germany, voiced a popular revolt against corrupt
and oligarchical merchant gilds, and sometimes most frequently so
in England-- worked quite harmoniously with the merchant gild, to
which its own members belonged.

In common with the merchant gild, the craft gild had religious and social aspects, and like the merchant gild
it insisted on righteous dealings; but unlike the merchant gild it
was composed of men in a single industry, and it controlled in detail
the manufacture as well as the marketing of commodities.

TRADE PRIOR TO THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION Just as agriculture is the
ultimate basis of human society, so town-life has always been an index
of culture and civilization.

And the fortunes of town-life have ever depended upon the vicissitudes
of trade and commerce.

So the reviving commerce of the later middle ages between Europe
and the East meant the growth of cities and betokened an advance in
civilization.

[Sidenote:
Revival of Trade with the East] Trade between Europe and Asia, which
had been a feature of the antique world of Greeks and Romans, had been
very nearly destroyed by the barbarian invasions of the fifth century
and by subsequent conflicts between Mohammedans and Christians, so
that during several centuries the old trade-routes were traveled only
by a few Jews and with the Syrians.

It was useless to attempt to breed fine cattle when all were herded together.
The breed deteriorated, and both cattle and sheep were undersized and poor.
A full-grown ox was hardly larger than a good-sized calf of the present time.
Moreover, there were no potatoes or turnips, and few farmers grew
clover or other grasses for winter fodder.

It was impossible, therefore, to keep many cattle through the winter;
most of the animals were killed off in the autumn and salted down
for the long winter months when it was impossible to secure fresh
meat.

[Sidenote: Peasant Life on the Manor] Crude farm-methods and the
heavy dues exacted by the lord [Footnote: In addition to the dues paid to
the lay lord, the peasants were under obligation to make a regular contribution
to the church, which was called the "tithe" and amounted to a share,
less than a tenth, of the annual crops.] of the manor must have left
the poor man little for himself.

Compared with the comfort of the farmer today, the poverty of sixteenth-century
peasants must have been inexpressibly distressful.

There were bakers'gilds, brewers'gilds, smiths'gilds, saddlers'gilds, shoemakers'gilds, weavers'gilds,
tailors'gilds, tanners'gilds, even gilds of masters of arts who constituted the teaching staff of colleges
and universities. When to-day we speak of a boy "serving his apprenticeship" in a trade, we seldom reflect
that the expression is derived from a practice of the medieval craft gilds,
a practice which survived after the gilds were extinct. Apprenticeship
was designed to make sure that recruits to the trade were properly
trained. The apprentice was usually selected as a boy by a master-workman
and indentured-- that is, bound to work several years without wages,
while living at the master's house.

After the reduction of several gilds to a dependent position.

These concessions they eventually had won, and each city had its charter,
in which its privileges were enumerated and recognized by the authority
of the nobleman, or of the king, to whom the city owed allegiance.

In England
these charters had been acquired generally by merchant gilds, upon payment
of a substantial sum to the nobleman; in France frequently the townsmen
had formed associations, called communes, and had rebelled successfully
against their feudal lords; in Germany the cities had leagued together
for mutual protection and for the acquisition of common privileges.
On the other hand it became increasingly difficult for journeymen
and apprentices to rise to the station of masters; oftentimes they
remained wage-earners for life.

In order to better their condition they formed new associations, which in England were called journeymen's
or yeomen's companies. These new organizations were symptomatic of
injustice but otherwise unimportant. Even the old conscientiousness
often gave way to greed, until in many places inferior workmanship received
the approval of the gild.

Many craft gilds exhibited in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
a tendency to split somewhat along the present lines of capital and
labor.

On the one hand the old gild organization would be usurped and controlled
by the wealthier master-workmen, called "livery men," because they wore
rich uniforms, or a class of dealers would arise and organize a "merchants'company"
to conduct a wholesale business in the products of a particular industry.

 Thus the rich drapers sold all the cloth, but did not help to make it. By the sixteenth
century the towns had grown out of their infancy and were maintaining a great measure
of political and economic freedom. Other towns, formerly founded in the
expiration of this period of apprenticeship, during which he had learned
his trade thoroughly, the youth became a "journeyman," and worked for
wages, until he should finally receive admission to the gild as a master,
with the right to set up his own little shop, with apprentices and
journeymen of his own, and to sell his wares directly to those who
used them.

This restriction of membership was not the only way in which the trade
was supervised. The gild had rules specifying the quality of materials
to be used and often, likewise, the methods of manufacture; it might
prohibit night-work, and it usually fixed a "fair price" at which goods
were to be sold.

By means of such provisions, enforced by wardens or inspectors, the
gild not only perpetuated the "good old way" of doing things, but
guaranteed to the purchaser a thoroughly good article at a fair price.
[Sidenote: Partial Decay of Craft Gilds] By the opening of the sixteenth
century the craft gilds, though not so weakened as the merchant gilds,
were suffering from various internal diseases which sapped their vitality.

They tended to become exclusive and to direct their power and affluence in hereditary grooves. They steadily
raised their entrance fees and qualifications. Struggles between gilds
in allied trades, such as spinning, weaving, fulling, and dyeing,
often resulted by bishops, abbots, or counts, had received charters
at the very outset.

[Sidenote: Merchant Gilds] A peculiar outgrowth of the need for protection
against oppressive feudal lords, as well as against thieves, swindlers,
and dishonest workmen, had been the typically urban organization known
as the merchant gild or the merchants'company. In the year 1500 the merchant
gilds were everywhere on the decline, but they still preserved many
of their earlier and more glorious traditions. At the time of their
greatest importance they had embraced merchants, butchers, bakers,
and candlestick-makers: in fact, all who bought or sold in the town were
included in the gild. The monks too were ordinarily poor, although
the monastery might be wealthy, and they likewise often tilled the
fields.] himself often of humble birth, though the most learned man
on the manor, was at once the friend and benefactor of the poor and
the spiritual director of the lord.

Occasionally a visit of the bishop to administer confirmation to the children,
afforded an opportunity for gayety and universal festivity. [Sidenote:
Rural Isolation and Conservatism] At other times there was little to
disturb the monotony of village life and little to remind it of the
outside world, except when a gossiping peddler chanced along, or
when the squire rode away to court or to war.

Intercourse with other villages was unnecessary, unless there were no blacksmith or miller on
the spot. The roads were poor and in wet weather impassable.
  I have a notion she isn't the kind of everyday young lady who may
be permitted to gallop about the world all by herself--eh?  Well, I think it rather fine of
her, but I quite understand that the professor needed all his philosophy under the circumstances.
She is his only child now--and brilliant--what? Willie positively spluttered trying to describe
her to me; and I could see directly you came in that you had an uncommon experience."

Renouard, with an irritated gesture, tilted his hat more forward on his eyes, as though he
were bored.  The Editor went on with the remark that to be sure neither he (Renouard) nor yet
Willie were much used to meet girls of that remarkable superiority.  Willie when learning business
with a firm in London, years before, had seen none but boarding-house society, he guessed.
As to himself in the good old days, when he trod the glorious flags of Fleet Street, he neither
had access to, nor yet would have cared for the swells. Nothing interested him then but parliamentary
politics and the oratory of the House of Commons.

He paid to this not very distant past the tribute of a tender, reminiscent smile, and returned
to his first idea that for a society girl her action was rather fine.  All the same the professor
could not be very pleased.  The fellow if he was as pure as a lily now was just about as devoid
of the goods of the earth. And there were misfortunes, however undeserved, which damaged a
man's standing permanently.  On the other hand, it was difficult to oppose cynically a noble
impulse--not to speak of the great love at the root of it.  Ah!  Love!  And then the lady was
quite capable of going off by herself.  She was of age, she had money of her own, plenty of
pluck too.  Moorsom must have concluded that it was more truly paternal, more prudent too,
and generally safer all round to let himself be dragged into this chase.  The aunt came along
for the same reasons.  It was given out at home as a trip round the world of the usual kind.

Renouard had risen and remained standing with his heart beating, and strangely affected by
this tale, robbed as it was of all glamour by the prosaic personality of the narrator.  The
Editor added:  "I've been asked to help in the search--you know."

Renouard muttered something about an appointment and went out into the street.  His inborn
sanity could not defend him from a misty creeping jealousy.  He thought that obviously no man
of that sort could be worthy of such a woman's devoted fidelity.  Renouard, however, had lived
long enough to reflect that a man's activities, his views, and even his ideas may be very inferior
to his character; and moved by a delicate consideration for that splendid girl he tried to
think out for the man a character of inward excellence and outward gifts--some extraordinary
seduction.  But in vain.  Fresh from months of solitude and from days at sea, her splendour
presented itself to him absolutely unconquerable in its perfection, unless by her own folly.
It was easier to suspect her of this than to imagine in the man qualities which would be worthy
of her.  Easier and less degrading.  Because folly may be generous- -could be nothing else
but generosity in her; whereas to imagine her subjugated by something common was intolerable.

Because of the force of the physical impression he had received from her personality (and such
impressions are the real origins of the deepest movements of our soul) this conception of her
was even inconceivable.  But no Prince Charming has ever lived out of a fairy tale.  He doesn't
walk the worlds of Fashion and Finance--and with a stumbling gait at that.  Generosity.  Yes.
It was her generosity.  But this generosity was altogether regal in its splendour, almost absurd
in its lavishness--or, perhaps, divine.

In the evening, on board his schooner, sitting on the rail, his arms folded on his breast and
his eyes fixed on the deck, he let the darkness catch him unawares in the midst of a meditation
on the mechanism of sentiment and the springs of passion.  And all the time he had an abiding
consciousness of her bodily presence.  The effect on his senses had been so penetrating that
in the middle of the night, rousing up suddenly, wide-eyed in the darkness of his cabin, he
did not create a faint mental vision of her person for himself, but, more intimately affected,
he scented distinctly the faint perfume she used, and could almost have sworn that he had been
awakened by the soft rustle of her dress.  He even sat up listening in the dark for a time,
then sighed and lay down again, not agitated but, on the contrary, oppressed by the sensation
of something that had happened to him and could not be undone.

CHAPTER III

In the afternoon he lounged into the editorial office, carrying with affected nonchalance that
weight of the irremediable he had felt laid on him suddenly in the small hours of the night--that
consciousness of something that could no longer be helped.  His patronising friend informed
him at once that he had made the acquaintance of the Moorsom party last night.  At the Dunsters,
of course.  Dinner.

"Very quiet.  Nobody there.  It was much better for the business. I say . . ."

Renouard, his hand grasping the back of a chair, stared down at him dumbly.

"Phew!  That's a stunning girl. . . Why do you want to sit on that chair?  It's uncomfortable!"

"I wasn't going to sit on it."  Renouard walked slowly to the window, glad to find in himself
enough self-control to let go the chair instead of raising it on high and bringing it down
on the Editor's head.

"Willie kept on gazing at her with tears in his boiled eyes.  You should have seen him bending
sentimentally over her at dinner."

"Don't," said Renouard in such an anguished tone that the Editor turned right round to look
at his back.

"You push your dislike of young Dunster too far.  It's positively morbid," he disapproved mildly.
"We can't be all beautiful after thirty. . . . I talked a little, about you mostly, to the
professor.  He appeared to be interested in the silk plant--if only as a change from the great
subject.  Miss Moorsom didn't seem to mind when I confessed to her that I had taken you into
the confidence of the thing.  Our Willie approved too.  Old Dunster with his white beard seemed
to give me his blessing.  All those people have a great opinion of you, simply because I told
them that you've led every sort of life one can think of before you got struck on exploration.
They want you to make suggestions.  What do you think 'Master Arthur' is likely to have taken to?"

"Something easy," muttered Renouard without unclenching his teeth.

"Hunting man.  Athlete.  Don't be hard on the chap. When his will was opened, it was by the side of Sarah he wished
to be buried: "as to my Body, i desire it may be interred under the Tombstone in the enclosed ground
in the presbyterian Yard near where my first wife and children are
interred."

[76]
this house was the social and political center of Alexandria. Such men
as Charles Carroll, Aaron Burr, John Paul Jones, John marshall, Thomas Jefferson,
George Mason, George Washington, and the two Fairfaxes are but a
few of those who gathered here for good food, good wine, and better
talk.

Any visitor of importance was entertained at "coffee"; the house was
often filled with music, and "balls" were common.

The "Congress of Alexandria" met here Monday, April 14, 1755, and on the following Tuesday and
Wednesday, when with Braddock and the five colonial governors plans were made for concerted
action against the french and Indians.

Here that famous letter, still in existence, was written, urging
upon the british government the necessity of taxing the colonies.

This letter set into movement a chain of events disastrous to the mother country. It resulted in the
loathed Stamp Act and led ultimately to the Revolution of 1775.

Carlyle was appointed collector of his Majesty's customs on the South
Potomac in 1758, succeeding his father-in-law, William Fairfax.

In 1762 he was importing race horses into the colony. These were imported, "just as they imported Madeira
wine and other luxuries." one of the early Maryland gazettes of July
29, 1762 carries the following advertisement: imported by Carlyle&
Dalton in the ship christian, Captain stanly, and for sale, three
horses [Thorne's Starling: Smith's Hero, and leary's old England]
and three mares [the other two being the Rock-mares nos.

1 and 2] of full blood, viz: a ch. M. With a star and two white heels behind,
eight years old: got by Wilson's Chestnut arabian: her dam by slipby,
brother to snap's dam; and out of Menil [sic] the dam of Trunnion.

Menil was got by Partner: out of Sampson's-Sister, which was got by Greyhound: her grandam by Curwen's Bay Barb: her
g. Grandam by ld. D'Arcy's arabian: her dam by Whiteshirt: out of
a famous mare of Ld.

Montagu's. JOHN CARLYLE [77] Alexandria, va., July 1762. In 1772 Carlyle
took over the incompleted work on Christ Church and carried it to
completion. In 1773 he bought pew no. 19. In 1774 he built the presbyterian
meetinghouse.

In between times he was hunting at Belvoir and mount Vernon, dancing at Alexandria assemblies, sitting
as town trustee and gentleman justice, journeying to England and back, laying out and planting his
garden, taking part in long, hot arguments with his family and neighbors
in the only-widening breach between the colonies and the mother country,
breeding race horses, and joining in the frolics of the Jockey Club.

Heir to a title old and honorable as it was, he ardently espoused
the cause of the colonies.

Too ill for active military service, he nevertheless served as a
member of the Committee of Safety until his death in 1780, at the
age of sixty.

Toilet Carlyle divided his lands, named after the scottish family holdings, Limkiln, Bridekirk,
Torthorwald taken, between his two grandsons, Carlyle Fairfax Whiting
and John Carlyle Herbert.

To his daughter,
Sarah Herbert, he left thirty feet on Fairfax Street and one hundred feet on Cameron Street, to
include his dryware house. The mansion and all other property were
for a brief period the property of his ever son. In his will he expressed
the utmost concern for the education of this boy, George William
Carlyle, and urged his executors to spare no expense and to send him to
a best schools.

Alas, for the plans of men! the lad, fired by the talk of father
and friends, was serving in Lee's Legion in 1781, and ere John Carlyle was moldering
in his grave this boy of seventeen years, spirited, brave, heir to large
estates, great fortune and honorable name, and to the title of Lord
Carlyle, was dead at eutaw springs, led by that boy hardly older than
himself "light Horse Harry"

Lee. Enough of serious and sad history; let us in lighter vein go once more into the lovely paneled
blue room where not only weighty conferences occurred, but where, in
lace and satin, noble figures threw aside the cares of state and
trod a measure to the tinkling of the spinet; where games of cards
were indulged in and the pistoles changed hands.

Let us go into the dining room with its fine Adam mantel and its mahogany doors, and visualize again
the terrapin and the canvasback, the Madeira and Port so abundantly provided from that great kitchen below, and
the most famous wine cellar of its day in Alexandria.

Let us stroll in the still lovely garden where the aroma of box and honeysuckle
mingle, and turn our thoughts once more to the inmates of this fine, old house.
Built in the days when Virginia was a man's world, when men who wore
satin, velvet and damask were masters of the art of fighting, riding, drinking,
eating, and wooing. When a man knew what he wanted, and got it by God's
help and his own tenacity, enjoying himself right lustily in the getting.
Perchance major John Carlyle, clad in Saxon green laced with silver,
will be wandering up and down his box-bordered paths with his first
love, Sarah Fairfax, watching the moon light up the rigging of Carlyle&
Dalton's great ships at anchor just at the foot of the garden.

Chapter 3 the married Houses [209-211 North Fairfax Street.

Owner: Mrs. Herbert
E. Marshburn.] when the new town of Alexandria was laid out, John Dalton
purchased, on July 13, 1749, the first lot put down for sale (no.
36) for the sum of nineteen pistoles. The lot faced the Potomac River
and was bounded by Water (now Lee) Street, Fairfax Street and lot no.
37.

When the latter lot, which lay
on Cameron and Fairfax, was put up later in the day, it was purchased
by Dalton for sixteen pistoles. Within three years Dalton had finished
a small frame-and-brick cottage, neatly paneled, in which he is purported
to have lived and died.

The house faced on Cameron Street, standing about the middle of lot no. 37, with an extensive garden
running the depth of the premises to the river, surrounded by outbuildings,
orchards, wells, and so on, as was the custom of the times.

His will mentioned the fact that he lived on this lot and left to his
daughter, Jenny Dalton (later Mrs. Thomas Herbert), his new brick building
on the corner of Fairfax and Cameron.

His will further stated that the house must be finished out of his
estate.

To his daughter, Catherine
(later Mrs. William Bird), he left the remainder of the lot which included
his dwelling and another house on that same lot, at the time occupied by
John Page. On February 27, 1750, John Dalton succeeded Richard Osborn
as a trustee of the town.

His appointment was the first after the original selection of trustees
by the assembly in Williamsburg.

John Dalton was a partner of John Carlyle in the firm of Carlyle&
Dalton, which for many years acted as agent for the Mount Vernon produce.

He was a pew owner with George Washington at Christ Church, which
he served as vestryman.

With his wife and daughter, he was a frequent visitor at Mount Vernon
and a later chronicler has asserted that he barely missed becoming
the general's father-in-law.

A fox-hunter and horse-lover, in a company of Alexandria gentlemen or
alone, he run with Washington and bred his mares to the blooded
Mount Vernon stud.

On January 12, 1769, Washington went up to Alexandria to "ye Monthly Ball."
he lodged with Captain Dalton and the next day being very bad he was "confined
there till afternoon by rain." [78] sometimes when attending court he
"lodged at captn.

Dalton's." [79] John Dalton's bequest to his daughter, Catherine, included
the home place. On April 24, 1793, Catherine and her husband, William
Bird, sold to Jonah Thompson and David Findley for£ 1,500 (about$ 7,500)
the property described as being in Fairfax Street, 60 feet to the
north of Cameron, and extending north upon Fairfax Street 119 feet
3 inches to the line of Herbert, Potts and Wilson, thence East parallel
to Cameron to cross Water and Union Streets into the Potomac River,
thence with a line parallel to Fairfax south 119 feet 3 inches, and
included houses, buildings, streets, lanes, alleys, and so on.

But the Birds reserved the right to the "use and occupation of the
dwelling House now occupied" and the kitchen and garden, until the "1st
day of October next" and also reserved unto Lanty Crowe the house
"demised unto him to the end of his term, he paying the annual rent
thereof unto the said Jonah Thompson and David Findley."

[80] Findley died within the year and Jonah Thompson bought from Amelia Findley,
the mother and heir of David Findley, equal and undivided portion of the already
described lot and paid her the sum of£ 500 12s. Jonah Thompson was an important
citizen of Alexandria.

He was a shipping merchant, banker and large property owner. He married
Margaret Peyton and they had three sons, Israel, William Edward, and James;
a daughter, Mary Ann, married a Mr. Popham, and another daughter,
Eugenia, married a Mr. Morgan.

In 1809 Jonah Thompson mortgaged this property to the Bank of Alexandria
for$ 13,500, which he paid within four years. In May 1850, the heirs
of Jonah Thompson sold to Benjamin Hallowell for$ 4,600 a lot beginning
at the south side of the alley which divided the block, running south
43 feet 7 inches.

Benjamin Hallowell, in turn, sold to James S. Hallowell for nine
thousand dollars in April 1854, and from James S. Hallowell and his
wife the property passed through various hands until it became St.
Mary's Academy.

The Jonah Thompson house, part of it at least already built in 1793, is one of the most interesting
houses to be found anywhere. It is unusually large and has two handsome arched stone
entrances. One, although similar, obviously was added, as the line of demarcation
is plainly seeable between the bricks.

The
house has been sadly abused with no thought given its architectural merits
and much of the woodwork has been removed. The stair is perhaps the
finest in Alexandria, with spindles and clothes hung to dry flap on the
gallery, the outline is so chaste in its classic form that nothing
can destroy the illusion of beauty.

No search of records reveals how or why these two houses stand back
to back.

Whether Jonah Thompson built the first for his bank or business offices, or
whether his family outgrew the house and he needed more room is
not known. The two are treated as one house in all the documentary
evidence, and one's curiosity, interest, and imagination are excited
by the twin or married houses. One story has it that Jonah Thompson built
the rear or twin bungalow for his eldest son so that the two families
might be together but with separate ménages. Captain John Dalton forged
a link between Mount Vernon, his family, and his posterity that was stronger
than he knew.

It was his granddaughter who was so deeply distressed at the ruin and desolation of the home of Washington
that she fired her daughter's imagination with an idea that saved the spot
for the nation. This great-granddaughter of John Dalton was Ann Pamela
Cunningham, whose name will ever be indissolubly connected with Mount
Vernon. In 1853 she formed the Mount Vernon Ladies'Association, and
as its first regent stirred the women of America with her ardor and
directed the entire campaign until adequate funds were collected.
In 1859 John Augustine Washington sold the Mount Vernon estate to
Miss Cunningham for two hundred thousand dollars-- after the Virginia
Law-makers and the federal government had both refused to acquire it.

This sale was negotiated by the Alexandria banker, John W. Burke,
who was appointed executor and guardian of John Augustine Washington's
estate after he was killed during the civil War while on active duty
as a member of General Robert E. Lee's staff.

When the war broke out, Alexandria was occupied by Union troops. The Union authorities knew
of the sale of mount Vernon and repeated but futile efforts were made to find the securities. Mr. Burke's
home was searched no less than three times.

The funds were never found in their hiding place of the soiled-clothes basket.
There they reposed until Mrs. Burke (née Trist, great-granddaughter of
Thomas Jefferson) and Mrs. Upton Herbert (née Tracy), both Philadelphia-born
ladies, sewed the bonds in their petticoats and with high heads carried
them through the Union lines to Washington and delivered them to
George W. Riggs, who held them for the duration of the war, when he
returned them to Alexandria-- and Mr. Burke.

An interesting sequel to the story occurred only a short time ago
when the last of John Augustine Washington's children died. Mr. Taylor Burke,
grandson of John W. Burke, and president of the Burke& Herbert Bank,
administered the estate of the late Mrs. Eleanor Washington Howard,
and distributed her estate, composed of the remainder of that purchase
price, among her heirs.

[81] Chapter 4 the Fairfaxes of Belvoir and Alexandria of the families
in Virginia closely associated with George Washington, none bore
so intimate a relation as that of Fairfax. William Fairfax, founder of the
Virginia branch of the family, was born in 1691 in Towlston in Yorkshire,
England, the son of the honorable Henry Fairfax, Sheriff of Yorkshire,
and grandson of the fourth Lord Fairfax.

Educated as a member of the governing paradigm, he began his career in the navy, later entering
the colonial service. Before he was twenty-six he had acted as chief justice of the Bahamas and Governor
of the Isle of Providence. Prior to 1717 he married Sarah Walker of Nassau,
daughter of Colonel Walker, by whom he had four children, George William, Thomas,
Anne, and Sarah. In 1729, Colonel Fairfax was appointed Collector of the
Port of Salem, Massachusetts, and removed to that colony. In 1731 his wife
died, and very shortly afterward he married Deborah, widow of Francis
Clarke and daughter of Colonel Bartholomew Gedney of Salem, by whom
he had three children, Bryan, William Henry, and Hannah.

In 1734 Fairfax came to Virginia as agent for his first cousin, Thomas, sixth Lord Fairfax (who, by
direct inheritance left in the old seaport.

A pure Adam loggia, executed in stone, runs across the garden façade.
While arches are now filled in and risers carved in a more elaborate
fashion than was the practice of the thrifty Scotsmen of Alexandria.

At the rear of this large house, separated only by a narrow area, stands another house, facing
the long garden and originally the river. The front of this house boasts the loveliest bit
of georgian architecture from a royal grant of Charles ii, had come
into possession of some five million acres of Virginia land lying between
the Rappahannock and the Potomac, and extending from Chesapeake Bay to
the foothills of the blue Ridge Mountains, known to Virginians as
the northern Neck); and to serve as Collector of Customs for the South
Potomac.

Fairfax first went to Westmoreland, where he was associated with the Washington and Lee families. Next he moved
to King George, and lived at Falmouth. By 1741 he was representing Prince William County in the House
of Burgesses. Colonel Fairfax was elevated to "his Majesty's Council of State" three years later.
Becoming President of the Council in 1744, he continued in that office
until his death.

About this time William Fairfax completed his dwelling house, Belvoir,
situated on a high bluff overlooking the Potomac River, halfway between
Mount Vernon and Gunston Hall.

It was described by Washington in an advertisement as having "four convenient rooms and a wide
Hall on the first floor." in one of these "convenient rooms," more than two hundred years ago on July 19,
1743, Anne, eldest daughter of Colonel Fairfax was married to Lawrence Washington of Mount Vernon.


He used to go from her on board the schooner exhausted, broken, shaken up, as though he had
been put to the most exquisite torture. When he saw her approaching he always had a moment
of hallucination.  She was a misty and fair creature, fitted for invisible music, for the shadows
of love, for the murmurs of waters.  After a time (he could not be always staring at the ground)
he would summon up all his resolution and look at her. There was a sparkle in the clear obscurity
of her eyes; and when she turned them on him they seemed to give a new meaning to life. He
would say to himself that another man would have found long before the happy release of madness,
his wits burnt to cinders in that radiance.  But no such luck for him.  His wits had come unscathed
through the furnaces of hot suns, of blazing deserts, of flaming angers against the weaknesses
of men and the obstinate cruelties of hostile nature.

Being sane he had to be constantly on his guard against falling into adoring silences or breaking
out into wild speeches.  He had to keep watch on his eyes, his limbs, on the muscles of his
face. Their conversations were such as they could be between these two people:  she a young
lady fresh from the thick twilight of four million people and the artificiality of several
London seasons; he the man of definite conquering tasks, the familiar of wide horizons, and
in his very repose holding aloof from these agglomerations of units in which one loses one's
importance even to oneself.  They had no common conversational small change.  They had to use
the great pieces of general ideas, but they exchanged them trivially.  It was no serious commerce.
Perhaps she had not much of that coin.  Nothing significant came from her.  It could not be
said that she had received from the contacts of the external world impressions of a personal
kind, different from other women.  What was ravishing in her was her quietness and, in her
grave attitudes, the unfailing brilliance of her femininity.  He did not know what there was
under that ivory forehead so splendidly shaped, so gloriously crowned.  He could not tell what
were her thoughts, her feelings.  Her replies were reflective, always preceded by a short silence,
while he hung on her lips anxiously.  He felt himself in the presence of a mysterious being
in whom spoke an unknown voice, like the voice of oracles, bringing everlasting unrest to the
heart.

He was thankful enough to sit in silence with secretly clenched teeth, devoured by jealousy--and
nobody could have guessed that his quiet deferential bearing to all these grey-heads was the
supreme effort of stoicism, that the man was engaged in keeping a sinister watch on his tortures
lest his strength should fail him.  As before, when grappling with other forces of nature,
he could find in himself all sorts of courage except the courage to run away.

It was perhaps from the lack of subjects they could have in common that Miss Moorsom made him
so often speak of his own life.  He did not shrink from talking about himself, for he was free
from that exacerbated, timid vanity which seals so many vain-glorious lips. He talked to her
in his restrained voice, gazing at the tip of her shoe, and thinking that the time was bound
to come soon when her very inattention would get weary of him.  And indeed on stealing a glance
he would see her dazzling and perfect, her eyes vague, staring in mournful immobility, with
a drooping head that made him think of a tragic Venus arising before him, not from the foam
of the sea, but from a distant, still more formless, mysterious, and potent immensity of mankind.

CHAPTER V

One afternoon Renouard stepping out on the terrace found nobody there.  It was for him, at
the same time, a melancholy disappointment and a poignant relief.

The heat was great, the air was still, all the long windows of the house stood wide open. 
At the further end, grouped round a lady's work-table, several chairs disposed sociably suggested
invisible occupants, a company of conversing shades.  Renouard looked towards them with a sort
of dread.  A most elusive, faint sound of ghostly talk issuing from one of the rooms added
to the illusion and stopped his already hesitating footsteps.  He leaned over the balustrade
of stone near a squat vase holding a tropical plant of a bizarre shape. Now, if you pronounce
hinges in the french fashion, you give forth an exclamation of distressful
pain.

The name cannot be shouted from a motor-cycle. It has its difficulties
even for the student of French.

So we all called it, plainly and bluntly, hinges, as though it were
connected to a door.

The inhabitants noticed this.

Thinking that they and their forefathers had been wrong-- for surely these
fine men with red hats knew better than they-- the english pronunciation
spread.

The village became'Ingees, and now only some unfashionable dotards in Béthune preserve the tradition
of the old pronunciation. It is not only hinges that has been thus decently attired in british
garb. Le Cateau is Lee catòo. Boescheppe is bo-peep. Ouderdon is
Eiderdown.

Béthune was full of simple pleasures. First there were the public baths, cheap and good, and sundry
coiffeurs who were much in demand, for they made you smell sweetly.

Then there was a little blue and white café. The daughter of the house was well-favoured and played
the piano with some skill. One of us spent all his spare time at this café in silent adoration-- of
the piano, for his French was exiguous in the extreme.

There was a patisserie crammed full of the most delicious cream-cakes.

The despatch rider who went to hinges about 3.30 P. M. And did not return
with cakes for tea, found life unpleasant. Near the station three damsels
ruled a tavern. They were friendly and eager to teach us French. We
might have left them with a sigh of regret if we had not once arrived
as they were eating their midday meal.

At one time the Germans sink a few shells into Béthune, but did little damage. Bombs fell too. One
nearly ended the existence of "Sadders"-- also known as "boo." it
dropped on the other side of the street; doing our despatch rider
no damage, it slightly wounded Sergeant Croucher of the Cyclists in
a portion of his body that made him swear when he was classed as a
"sitting-up case." of all the towns behind the lines-- Béthune, Estaires,
Armentières, Bailleul, Poperinghe-- Béthune is the pleasantest.

The people are charming. There is nothing you cannot buy there. It is
clean and well-ordered, and cheerful in the rain. I pray that Béthune
may survive the war-- that after peace has been declared and Berlin
has been entered, i may spend a week there and much money to the
profit of the people and the satisfaction of myself.

Now i will give some account of our adventures out with the brigades
round La Bassée. FOOTNOTES: [15] the first-- in October and November.

[16] this is not an unthinking advertisement. After despatch riding from August 16 to February 18
my judgment should be worth something. I am firmly convinced that if the Government could have provided
all despatch riders with Blackburnes, the percentage-- at all times
small-- of messages undelivered owing to mechanical breakdowns or
the badness of the roads would have been reduced to zero.

I have no interest in the Blackburne Company beyond a sincere admiration
of the machine it produces.

CHAPTER ix.

Round LA BASSÉE.

It had been a melancholy day, full of rain and doubting news.

Those of us who were not "out" were strolling up and down the platform
arranging the order of cakes from home and trying to gather from
the sound of the gunning and intermittent visits to the Signal Office
what was happening.

Someone had been told that the old 15th was being hard pressed.
Each of us regretted loudly that we had not been attached to it, though
our hearts spoke differently. Despatch riders have muddled thoughts.
There is a longing for the excitement of danger and a very earnest
desire to keep away from it.

The C. O. Walked on to the platform hurriedly, and in a minute or
two I was off.

It was
lucky that the road was covered with unholy grease, that the light
was bad and there was transport on the road-- for it is not good for
a despatch rider to think too much of what is before him.

My instructions were to report to the general and make myself useful.

I was also cheerfully informed that the H. Q. Of the 15th were under a robust shell-fire. Little parties of
sad-looking wounded that i passed, the noise of the guns, and the evil dusk
heartened me. I rode into Festubert, which was full of noise, and,
very hastily dismounting, put my motor-cycle under the cover of an
arch and reported to the general.

He was sitting at a table in the stuffy room of a particularly dirty tavern. At the far end a fat and frightened
woman was crooning to her child. Beside her sat a wrinkled, leathery old
man with bandaged head. He had wandered into the street, and he had been cut about
by shrapnel.

The few wits he had ever possessed were gone, and he gave every few
seconds little croaks of hate.

Three telephone operators were working with strained faces at their highest
speed. The windows had been smashed by shrapnel, and bits of glass and
things crunched under foot.

The room was full of noises-- the crackle of the telephones, the
crooning of the woman, the croak of the wounded old man, the clear
and incisive tones of the general and his brigade-major, the rattle
of not too distant rifles, the booming of guns and occasionally the
terrific, overwhelming crash of a shell bursting in the village.

I was given a glass of wine. Cadell, the Brigade Signal Officer, and
the veterinary Officer, came up to me and talked cheerfully in whispered
tones about our friends.

There was the sharp cry of shrapnel in the street and a sudden rattle against the whole house. The woman
and child fled somewhere through a door, followed feebly by the old man. The brigade-major persuaded
the general to work in some less unhealthy place. The telephone operators
moved. A moment's delay as the general endeavoured to persuade the brigade-major
to go first, and we found ourselves under a stalwart arch that led
into the courtyard of the tavern.

We lit pipes and cigarettes. The crashes of bursting shells grew more
frequent, and the general remarked in a dry and injured tone-- "their
usual little evening shoot before putting up the shutters, i suppose."
but first the Germans "searched" the village.

Now to search a village means to start at one end of the village and
place shells at discreet intervals until the other end of the village
is reached.

It is an unpleasant process for those in the middle of the village, even
though they be standing, as we were, in comparatively good shelter.

We heard the Germans start at the other end of the village street. The crashes
came nearer and nearer, until a shell burst with a scream and a thunderous
roar just on our right. We puffed away at our cigarettes for a second,
and a certain despatch rider wished he were anywhere but in the cursed
village of Festubert by Béthune.

There was another scream and overwhelming relief. The next shell burst three houses away on
our left. I knocked my pipe out and filled another. The Germans
finished their little evening shoot.

We marched back very slowly in the darkness to 1910 Farm. This farm was
neither savoury nor safe.

It was built round a courtyard which consisted of a gigantic hole crammed
with manure in all the stages of unpleasant putrefaction. One side is
a barn; two sides consist of stables, and the third is the house
inhabited not only by us but by an incredibly filthy and stinking old woman
who was continually troubling the general because some months ago a french
cuirassier took one of her chickens.

The day after we arrived at this farm I had few despatches to take,
so i wrote to Robert.

Here is some of the letter and bits of other letters i wrote during
the following days.

They will give you an idea
of our state of mind: [17] if you want something of the dramatic--
I am writing in a farm under shrapnel fire, smoking a pipe that was
broken by a shell.

For true effect I suppose i should not tell you that the shrapnel
is bursting about fifty yards the other side of the house, that i
am in a room lying on the floor, and consequently that, so long as
they go on firing shrapnel, i am perfectly safe.

It's the dismallest of places. Two miles farther back the heavies are banging away over our heads. There
are a couple of batteries near the farm.

Two miles along the road the four battalions of our brigade are holding
on for dear life in their trenches.

The country is open plough, with little clumps of trees, sparse hedges,
and isolated cottages giving a precarious cover.

It's all very damp and miserable, for it was raining hard last night
and the day before. I am in a little bare room with the floor covered with
straw. Two telegraph operators are making that infernal jerky clicking sound I have
begun so to hate. Half a dozen men of the signal staff are lying about
the floor looking at week-old papers.

In the next room i can hear the general, seated at a table and intent
on his map, talking to an officer that has just come from the firing
line.

Outside the window a gun is making a fiendish row, shaking the whole house.
Occasionally there is a bit of a rattle-- that's shrapnel bullets
falling on the tiles of an outhouse.

If you came out you might probably find this exhilarating. I have just
had a talk with our mutual friend Cadell, the Signal Officer of this
brigade, and we have decided that we are fed up with it.

For one thing-- after two months'experience of shell fire the sound
of a shell bursting within measurable distance makes you start and
shiver for a moment-- reflex action of the nerves.

That is annoying. We both decided we would willingly change places with you
and take a turn at defending your doubtless excellently executed
trenches at Liberton.

The line to the---- [18] has just gone. It's almost certain death to relay
it in the day-time. Cadell and his men are discussing the chances while
somebody else has started a musical-box. A man has gone out; i wonder if
he will come front. The rest of the men have gone to sleep again.

That gun outside the window is getting on my nerves. Well, well! the
shrapnel fire appears to have stopped for the present. No, there's a couple
together.

If they fire over this farm i hope they don't send me back to D.
H. Q. Do you know what i long for more than anything else? a clean,
unhurried breakfast with spotless napery and shining silver and porridge
and kippers.

I don't think these long, lazy after-breakfast hours
at Oxford were wasted. They are a memory and a hope out here. The
shrapnel is getting nearer and more frequent.

We are all hoping it will kill some chickens in the courtyard. The laws against
looting are so strict. What an excellent musical-box, playing quite
a good imitation of Cavalleria Rusticana. I guess we shall have to move
away. Too many shells.

Too dark to write any more---- after all, quite the most important things out here are a fine meal
and a good bath.

If you consider the vast area of the war the facts that we have lost two guns or advanced five miles
are of very little importance.

War, making one gain the hopeless insignificance of the individual, creates in one such an immense regard
for self, that so long as one does well it matters little if four
officers have been killed reconnoitring or some wounded have had to
be left under an abandoned gun all night.

I started with an immense interest in tactics. This has nearly all left
me and i remain a more or less efficient despatch-carrying animal--
a part of a machine realising the hopeless, enormous size of the machine.

The infantry officer after two months of modern war is a curious phenomenon.
[19] he is probably one of three survivors of an original twenty-eight.
He is not frightened of being killed; he has forgotten to think about
it.

But there is a sort of reflex fright. He becomes either cautious and liable to sudden panics,
or very rash indeed, or absolutely mechanical in his actions. The first state means the approach
of a nervous breakdown, the second a near death.

There are very few, indeed, who retain a nervous balance and a calm
judgment.

And all have a harsh frightened voice. If you come suddenly out here,
you would think they were all mortally afraid.

But
it is only giving orders for hours together under a heavy fire. Battle noises are terrific. At
the present moment a howitzer is going strong behind this, and the concussion is tremendous. The
noise is like dropping a traction-engine on a huge tin tray. A shell passing away from you over your
head is like the loud crackling of a newspaper close to your ear. It
makes a sort of deep reverberating crackle in the air, gradually
lessening, until there is a dull boom, and a mile or so soon you see
a thick little cloud of white smoke in the air or a pear-shaped cloud
of grey-black smoke on the ground.

Coming towards you a shell makes a cutting, swishing note, gradually
getting higher and higher, louder and louder. There is a longer
note one instant and then it ceases.

Shrapnel bursting close to you has the worst sound.

It is
almost funny in a village that is being shelled.

Things simply disappear. You are standing in an archway a little
back from the road-- a shriek of shrapnel.

The windows are broken and the tiles rush clattering into the street,
while little bullets and bits of shell jump like red-hot devils from
side to side of the street, ricochetting until their force is spent.

Or a deeper bang, a crash, and a whole house tumbles down.

3/ 4-hour later.-- curious life this.

Just after i had finished the last sentence, i was called out to
take a message to a battery telling them to shell a certain village.

Here am i wandering out, taking orders for the complete destruction
of a village and probably for the death of a couple of hundred men
[20] without a thought, except that the roads are very greasy and
that lunch time is near.

Again, yesterday, i put our Heavies in action, and in a quarter of
an hour a fine old church, with what appeared from the distance a
magnificent tower, was nothing but a grotesque dunghill of ruins.

The Germans were loopholing it for defence.

Oh
the waste, the utter damnable waste of everything out here-- men,
horses, buildings, cars, everything.

Those who talk about war being a salutary discipline are those who remain
at home.

In a modern war there is little room for picturesque gallantry or picture-book
heroism.

We are all either animals or machines, with little gained except
our emotions dulled and brutalised and nightmare flashes of scenes
that cannot be written about because they are unbelievable.

I wonder what difference you will find in us when we come home----
do you know what a night scare is? in our last H. Q. We were all dining
when suddenly there was a terrific outburst of rifle-fire from our
lines.

We went out into the road that passes the farm and stood there in
the pitch darkness, wondering.

The fire increased in intensity until every soldier within five miles
seemed to be revelling in a lunatic succession of "mad minutes." was
it a heavy attack on our lines? soon pom-poms joined in sharp, heavy
taps-- and machine guns.

The lines to the battalions were at the moment working feebly, and what the
operators could get through was scarcely intelligible.

Ammunition limbers were hurried up, and i stood ready to dart anywhere.

For twenty minutes the rifle-fire seemed to grow wilder and wilder.

At last stretcher-bearers came in with a few wounded and reported that
we seemed to be holding our own.

Satisfactory so far. Then there were great flashes of shrapnel over
our lines; that comforted us, for if your troops are advancing you
don't fire shrapnel over the enemy's lines.

You never know how soon they may be yours. The firing soon died down until
we heard nothing but little desultory bursts. Finally an orderly came--
the Germans had half-heartedly charged our trenches but had been driven off
with loss.

We returned
to the farm and found that in the few minutes we had been outside
everything had been packed and half-frightened men were standing about
for orders.

The explanation
of it all came later and was simple enough. The french, without letting us
know, had assail the Germans on our right, and the Germans to keep
us engaged had made a feint attack upon us.

So we went back to dinner. In modern war the infantryman hasn't much of a chance.
Strategy nowadays consists in arranging for the mutual slaughter
of infantry by the opposing guns, each general trusting that his guns
will do the greater slaughter.

And half gunnery is luck. The day before yesterday we had a little afternoon
shoot at where we thought the german trenches might be.

The Germans unaccountably retreated, and yesterday
when we advanced we found the trenches crammed full of dead. By a combination
of intelligent anticipation and good luck we had hit them exactly----
from these letters you will be able to gather what mood we were in
and something of what the brigade despatch rider was doing.

After the first day the Germans ceased
shrapnelling the fields round the farm and left us nearly in peace. There
i met major Ballard, commanding the 15th Artillery Brigade, one of the finest
officers of my acquaintance, and Captain Frost, the sole remaining officer
of the Cheshires.

He was charming to me; i was particularly grateful for the loan of a
razor, for my own had disappeared and there were no despatch riders
handy from whom i could borrow. Talking of the Cheshires reminds me
of a story illustrating the troubles of a brigadier. The general was dining
calmly one night after having arranged an attack. All orders had
been sent out. Everything was complete and ready. Suddenly there was a
knock at the door and in walked Captain M----, who reported his arrival
with 200 reinforcements for the Cheshires, a pleasant but irritating
addition. The situation was further complicated by the general's discovery
that M---- was senior to the officer then in command of the Cheshires.

Poor M---- was not left long in command.

A fortnight later the Germans broke through and over the Cheshires,
and M---- died where a commanding officer should.

From 1910 Farm I had one good ride to the battalions, through Festubert
and along to the cuinchy bridge. For me it was interesting because it was
one of the few times i had ridden just behind our trenches, which at the
moment were just north of the road and were occupied by the Bedfords.
In a day or two we returned to Festubert, and Cadell gave me a shake-down
on a mattress in his billet-- gloriously comfortable.

The way was a little draughty because the fuse
of a shrapnel had gone right through the door and the fireplace opposite.

Except for a peppering on the walls and some broken glass the house
was not damaged; we almost laughed at the father and mother and daughter
who, returning while we were there, wept because their home had been
touched.

  All the family were coming
to London to live there, for some little time at least.

"I hope you will go and tell them something of me.  Something seen," he said pressingly.

By this miserable subterfuge, like a man about to part with his life, he hoped to make her
remember him a little longer.

"Certainly," she said.  "I'll be glad to call when I get back.  But that 'when' may be a long
time."

He heard a light sigh.  A cruel jealous curiosity made him ask -

"Are you growing weary, Miss Moorsom?"

A silence fell on his low spoken question.

"Do you mean heart-weary?" sounded Miss Moorsom's voice.  "You don't know me, I see."

"Ah!  Never despair," he muttered.

"This, Mr. Renouard, is a work of reparation.  I stand for truth here.  I can't think of myself."

He could have taken her by the throat for every word seemed an insult to his passion; but he
only said -

"I never doubted the--the--nobility of your purpose."

"And to hear the word weariness pronounced in this connection surprises me.  And from a man
too who, I understand, has never counted the cost."

"You are pleased to tease me," he said, directly he had recovered his voice and had mastered
his anger.  It was as if Professor Moorsom had dropped poison in his ear which was spreading
now and tainting his passion, his very jealousy.  He mistrusted every word that came from those
lips on which his life hung.  "How can you know anything of men who do not count the cost?"
he asked in his gentlest tones.

"From hearsay--a little."

"Well, I assure you they are like the others, subject to suffering, victims of spells. . . ."

"One of them, at least, speaks very strangely."

She dismissed the subject after a short silence.  "Mr. Renouard, I had a disappointment this
morning.  This mail brought me a letter from the widow of the old butler--you know.  I expected
to learn that she had heard from--from here.  But no.  No letter arrived home since we left."

Her voice was calm.  His jealousy couldn't stand much more of this sort of talk; but he was
glad that nothing had turned up to help the search; glad blindly, unreasonably--only because
it would keep her longer in his sight--since she wouldn't give up.

"I am too near her," he thought, moving a little further on the seat.  He was afraid in the
revulsion of feeling of flinging himself on her hands, which were lying on her lap, and covering
them with kisses.  He was afraid.  Nothing, nothing could shake that spell--not if she were
ever so false, stupid, or degraded. She was fate itself.  The extent of his misfortune plunged
him in such a stupor that he failed at first to hear the sound of voices and footsteps inside
the drawing-room.  Willie had come home--and the Editor was with him.

They burst out on the terrace babbling noisily, and then pulling themselves together stood
still, surprising--and as if themselves surprised.

CHAPTER VII

They had been feasting a poet from the bush, the latest discovery of the Editor.  Such discoveries
were the business, the vocation, the pride and delight of the only apostle of letters in the
hemisphere, the solitary patron of culture, the Slave of the Lamp-- as he subscribed himself
at the bottom of the weekly literary page of his paper.  He had had no difficulty in persuading
the virtuous Willie (who had festive instincts) to help in the good work, and now they had
left the poet lying asleep on the hearthrug of the editorial room and had rushed to the Dunster
mansion wildly.  The Editor had another discovery to announce.  Swaying a little where he stood
he opened his mouth very wide to shout the one word "Found!"  Behind him Willie flung both
his hands above his head and let them fall dramatically.  Renouard saw the four white-headed
people at the end of the terrace rise all together from their chairs with an effect of sudden
panic.

"I tell you--he--is--found," the patron of letters shouted emphatically.

"What is this!" exclaimed Renouard in a choked voice.  Miss Moorsom seized his wrist suddenly,
and at that contact fire ran through all his veins, a hot stillness descended upon him in which
he heard the blood--or the fire--beating in his ears.  He made a movement as if to rise, but
was restrained by the convulsive pressure on his wrist.

"No, no."  Miss Moorsom's eyes stared black as night, searching the space before her.  Far
away the Editor strutted forward, Willie following with his ostentatious manner of carrying
his bulky and oppressive carcass which, however, did not remain exactly perpendicular for two
seconds together.

"The innocent Arthur . . . Yes.  We've got him," the Editor became very business-like.  "Yes,
this letter has done it."

He plunged into an inside pocket for it, slapped the scrap of paper with his open palm.  "From
that old woman.  William had it in his pocket since this morning when Miss Moorsom gave it
to him to show me.  Forgot all about it till an hour ago.  Thought it was of no importance.
Well, no!  Not till it was properly read."

Renouard and Miss Moorsom emerged from the shadows side by side, a well-matched couple, animated
yet statuesque in their calmness and in their pallor.  She had let go his wrist.  On catching
sight of Renouard the Editor exclaimed:

"What--you here!" in a quite shrill voice.

There came a dead pause.  All the faces had in them something dismayed and cruel.

"He's the very man we want," continued the Editor.  "Excuse my excitement.  You are the very
man, Renouard.  Didn't you tell me that your assistant called himself Walter?  Yes?  Thought
so.  But here's that old woman--the butler's wife--listen to this.  She writes:  All I can
tell you, Miss, is that my poor husband directed his letters to the name of H. Walter."

Renouard's violent but repressed exclamation was lost in a general murmur and shuffle of feet.
The Editor made a step forward, bowed with creditable steadiness.

"Miss Moorsom, allow me to congratulate you from the bottom of my heart on the happy--er--issue.
. . "

"Wait," muttered Renouard irresolutely.

The Editor jumped on him in the manner of their old friendship. "Ah, you!  You are a fine fellow
too.  With your solitary ways of life you will end by having no more discrimination than a
savage. Fancy living with a gentleman for months and never guessing.  A man, I am certain,
accomplished, remarkable, out of the common, since he had been distinguished" (he bowed again)
"by Miss Moorsom, whom we all admire."

She turned her back on him.

"I hope to goodness you haven't been leading him a dog's life, Geoffrey," the Editor addressed
his friend in a whispered aside.

Renouard seized a chair violently, sat down, and propping his elbow on his knee leaned his
head on his hand.  Behind him the sister of the professor looked up to heaven and wrung her
hands stealthily. Mrs. Dunster's hands were clasped forcibly under her chin, but she, dear
soul, was looking sorrowfully at Willie.  The model nephew! In this strange state!  So very
much flushed!  The careful disposition of the thin hairs across Willie's bald spot was deplorably
disarranged, and the spot itself was red and, as it were, steaming. 

CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy man,
the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the mountains of
Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia, Diocese
of Metz. In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight
o'clock in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and
the servant, he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the
ground turn round three or four times, without its being set in motion
by any one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the
next room into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons, without their seeing
the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass
were broken, and through these panes were thrown some stones, with what appeared
to them supernatural dexterity. The spirit never hurt anybody, and never
did anything in the night time, but always during the day. The curé
employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his house,
and thenceforth the genius broke no more panes of glass; but he continued
to throw stones at the curé's people, without hurting them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the bucket; and afterwards he began to serve
in the kitchen. One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden, he pulled
them up as fast as she planted them, and laid them in a heap.

It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the style; the genius continued to play his tricks.
One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the
spade was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any
trace being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed
that on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of
two soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter, and putting it either all round
the kitchen, or in the porch, or even in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight. One day he filled
an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees, and, having put some water in it, carried it
to the ally or walk in the garden; another time he suspended it to the pot-hook
over the fire. The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for
the curé's supper, the genius broke two more into it in his presence, the
maid having merely turned to get some salt. The curé having gone to
say mass, on his return found all his earthenware, furniture, linen, bread,
milk, and other things scattered about over the house. Sometimes the
spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one time with stones,
at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment, before the eyes of all
present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the curé send for the mayor of the place, and told
him he was resolved to quit the parsonage house. Whilst this was passing,
the curé's niece came in, and told them that the genius had torn
up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money in a hole in
the ground.

They went there, and found things exactly as she had said. They picked
up the money, which what the curé had put away in a place not locked
up; and in a moment after they found it anew, with some liards, two
by two, scattered about the kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went to the curé's house, and persuaded
him that it was all the effect of a spell; they told him to take two
pistols, and fire them off at the place where he might observe there
were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these officers two pieces of silver;
and from that time he was no longer perceived in the house. The circumstances
of two pistols terminating the scenes with which the elf had disturbed
the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting imp was no other
than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had been obliged to
send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself had done all
that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had
had credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled
the curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house,
what had he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired
at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible? I have been told several times that
a monk of the Cistercian order had a familiar genius who attended
upon him, arranged his chamber, and prepared everything ready for
him when he was coming back from the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these
signs, and he always arrived. It is affirmed of another monk of the same order
that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not only of what passed
in the house, but also of which fell down the following night. [287]
The same story is related, with a little difference, by another author,
who says that the circumstance happened at Paris; [288] that the genius
spoke in Syriac, and that M. de Saumaise being consulted, replied,
"Go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day, at nine o'clock
in the evening."

It
is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to add a few
circumstances by way of embellishment. Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch,
relates that M. Peiresch, going one day to Nismes, with one of his
friends, named M. Rainier, the latter, having heard Peiresch talking
in his sleep in the night, waked him, and asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler
had offered me a medal of Julius Cæsar, for which he asked four crowns,
and as I was going to count him down his money, you waked me, to my
great sorrow."

They arrived at Nismes, and going about the town, Peiresch recognized
the goldsmith whom he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him
if he had nothing curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal,
or coin, of Julius Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch paid them, and
was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished. Here is a dream much more singular than
the preceding, although a little in the same style. [289] A learned man of Dijon, after having wearied
himself all day with an important passage in a Greek poet, without
being able to comprehend it at all, went to bed thinking of this
difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm, introduced him into the palace of Queen
Christina, conducted him into the library, and showed him a small volume, which was precisely what
he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely cleared up the difficulty which
had so long beset him; he awoke, and wrote down the verses he had seen at Stockholm. On the morrow, he
wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and begged of him to look
in such a place, and in such a division of the library, if the book,
of which he sent him the description, were there, and if the Greek
verses which he sent him were to be read in it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also the verses he had sent were in
the place he pointed out; that one of his friends had promised him
a copy of that work, and he would send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of Socrates, which prevented him from doing
certain things, but did not lead him to do others. It is asserted [290] that, after the defeat of the
Athenian army, commanded by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others,
with this Athenian general, and being arrived at a spot where several
roads met, Socrates would not follow the road taken by the other fugitives;
and when they asked him the reason, he replied, because his genius
drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other road were either killed or
made prisoners by the enemy's in the morning to awaken him; and as
that person mistrusted all these things, fearing that it might be
an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad day, striking gently
on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench. When he desired to do anything
good and useful, the spirit touched his right ear; but if it was
anything wrong and dangerous, he touched his left ear; so that from
that time nothing occurred to him of which he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent danger, he saw his genius,
under the form of a child of extraordinary beauty, who saved him from it. William, Bishop of Paris, [286]
says that he knew a rope-dancer who had a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging
off the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened
to him in the open country, and in the day time, to feel his cloak
and boots pulled at, and his hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts
of laughter and the voice of a person deceased and well known to him,
who seemed to rejoice at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams, or otherwise, can hardly be ascribed
to anything but to familiar spirits. A man who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise,
senior, a counselor of the Parliament of Dijon, and showed him these words, which he had heard in the night,
as he slept, and which he wrote down in French characters on awaking: "Apithi
ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian." He asked him what that meant. M. de
Saumaise told him it meant, "Save yourself; do you not perceive the
death with which you are threatened?" Upon this hint, the man removed,
and left his house, what happened out of it; and one day he was awakened
three times, and warned that some monks were quarreling, and were
ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot, and put an end to the
dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus [284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons
and false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from them
many secret things.

One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he had not thought proper to be present,
but the decisions of which he desired to know, being in a boat with St.
Sulpicius, but apart from others, as usual with him, an angel appeared,
and informed him what had passed in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made
as to the day and hour when the council was held, and it was found to be at the same hour at which the angel
had appeared to Martin. We have been told several times that a young
ecclesiastic, in a seminary at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him,
and arranged his room and his clothes. One day, when the superior was
passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard him talking with some one;
he entered, and asked who he was conversing with. The youth affirmed that
there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior could neither
see nor discover any one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some
years he had been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him every
service that a domestic could have done, and had promised him great advantages
in the ecclesiastical profession. The superior pressed him to give some
proofs of what he said. He ordered the genius to set a chair for the superior;
the genius obeyed. Information of this was sent to the archbishop, who
did not think proper to give it publicity. The young clerk was sent
away, and this singular adventure was buried in silence.

Bodin [285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living at the time
he wrote, which was in 1588.

This person had a familiar who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting his conduct,
sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice virtue, or to assist him; resolving the difficulties
which he might find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon his own affairs. He usually
rapped at his door at three or four o'clock cavalry. It is doubtful whether the
elves, of which so many things are related, are good or bad spirits;
for the faith of the church admits nothing between these two kinds
of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many mansions,
as the Gospel says, [291] and as there are among the blessed, various degrees
of glory, differing from each other, so we may believe that there are
in hell various degrees of pain and punishment for the damned and the
demons. But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible,
and divert themselves in disquieting the living? Why do they attach
themselves to certain spots, and certain persons, rather than to
others?

Why do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and that sometimes a short
space? I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy and prejudice; but their
reality has been so often experienced by the discourse they have
held, and the actions they have performed in the presence of many wise
and enlightened persons, that I cannot persuade myself that among
the great number of stories related of them there are not at least
some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to prayer,
or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions. If they do
no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of the damned,
on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt not those men
or animals which are found on the spot where they may be perceived,
it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us. All those to whom these genii attach themselves have
a horror of them, mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that
these familiar demons do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless
they deliver themselves from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "I
no more doubt the truth of than if I had been a witness of it." Count
Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers,
was in winter quarters in Flanders.

One of his men came to him one day to beg that he would change his
landlord, saying that every night there came into his bed-room a
spirit, which would not allow him to sleep. The Count Despilliers
sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity. Some days after, the same
horseman came back and made the same adventure to me within a short
time, as having heard it from his father.

The person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes
return; but I have found myself in a great many places which it was
said they haunted. I have even tried several times to see them, but
I have never seen any.

I found myself once with more house of his new host. M. Despilliers related this adventure to any
one who would listen to it. He was an intrepid man, who had never
known what it was to fall back before danger. He died field-marshal of
the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. and governor of the fortress of Ségedin.
His son has confirmed this request to him; the only reply of the captain
would have been a volley of blows with a stick, had not the soldier avoided
them by a prompt flight. At last, he returned a third time to the
charge, and protested to his captain that he could bear it no longer, and
should be obliged to desert if his lodgings were not changed.

Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said to
him, with an oath," I will go this night and sleep with you, and see
what is the matter.

"At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's lodging,
and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table, he lay down
in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier, in a bed without
curtains. About midnight he heard something which came into the
room, and in a moment turned the bed upside down, covering the captain
and the soldier with the mattress and paillasse.

Despilliers had great trouble to disengage himself and find again his sword and pistols, and he returned
home much confounded. The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept quietly in the than
four thousand persons, who all said they saw the spirit; I was the
only one in the assembly who saw nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same letter
wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers. Footnotes: [284]
St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15. [285] Bodin Demonomania,
lib. ii. c. 2. [286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8. [287] Grot.
Epist. Part. ii. Ep. 405. [288] They affirm that it happened at The,
in the family of the MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has
perpetuated the memory of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p. 55. [290] Cicero, de Divinat.
lib. i. [291] John xiv. 2. CHAPTER XXXI. SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH
OVER TREASURE. Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches
buried in the earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy
that the demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon,
the Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian,
of these treasures.

We know also that the ancients very often interred vast wealth in
the tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them
in the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them
in those gloomy places.

Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom, when he says, [293] "Would to God I had never
been born: I should now sleep with the kings and great ones of the
earth, who built themselves solitary places; like unto those who seek
for treasure, and are rejoiced when they find a tomb;" doubtless
because they hope to find great riches therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus.
  He had a sensation of eternity close at hand, demanding no effort--offering
its peace.  It was easy to swim like this beyond the confines of life looking at a star.  But
the thought:  "They will think I dared not face them and committed suicide," caused a revolt
of his mind which carried him on.  He returned on board, as he had left, unheard and unseen.
He lay in his hammock utterly exhausted and with a confused feeling that he had been beyond
the confines of life, somewhere near a star, and that it was very quiet there.

CHAPTER IX

Sheltered by the squat headland from the first morning sparkle of the sea the little bay breathed
a delicious freshness.  The party from the schooner landed at the bottom of the garden.  They
exchanged insignificant words in studiously casual tones.  The professor's sister put up a
long-handled eye-glass as if to scan the novel surroundings, but in reality searching for poor
Arthur anxiously.  Having never seen him otherwise than in his town clothes she had no idea
what he would look like.  It had been left to the professor to help his ladies out of the boat
because Renouard, as if intent on giving directions, had stepped forward at once to meet the
half-caste Luiz hurrying down the path.  In the distance, in front of the dazzlingly sunlit
bungalow, a row of dark-faced house-boys unequal in stature and varied in complexion preserved
the immobility of a guard of honour.

Luiz had taken off his soft felt hat before coming within earshot. Renouard bent his head to
his rapid talk of domestic arrangements he meant to make for the visitors; another bed in the
master's room for the ladies and a cot for the gentleman to be hung in the room opposite where--where
Mr. Walter--here he gave a scared look all round--Mr. Walter--had died.

"Very good," assented Renouard in an even undertone.  "And remember what you have to say of him."

"Yes, master.  Only"--he wriggled slightly and put one bare foot on the other for a moment
in apologetic embarrassment--"only I--I-- don't like to say it."

Renouard looked at him without anger, without any sort of expression.  "Frightened of the dead?
Eh?  Well--all right.  I will say it myself--I suppose once for all. . . Immediately he raised
his voice very much.

"Send the boys down to bring up the luggage."

"Yes, master."

Renouard turned to his distinguished guests who, like a personally conducted party of tourists,
had stopped and were looking about them.

"I am sorry," he began with an impassive face.  "My man has just told me that Mr. Walter .
. ." he managed to smile, but didn't correct himself . . . "has gone in a trading schooner
on a short tour of the islands, to the westward."

This communication was received in profound silence.

Renouard forgot himself in the thought:  "It's done!"  But the sight of the string of boys
marching up to the house with suit- cases and dressing-bags rescued him from that appalling
abstraction.

"All I can do is to beg you to make yourselves at home . . . with what patience you may."

This was so obviously the only thing to do that everybody moved on at once.  The professor
walked alongside Renouard, behind the two ladies.

"Rather unexpected--this absence."

"Not exactly," muttered Renouard.  "A trip has to be made every year to engage labour."

"I see . . . And he . . . How vexingly elusive the poor fellow has become!  I'll begin to think
that some wicked fairy is favouring this love tale with unpleasant attentions."

Renouard noticed that the party did not seem weighed down by this new disappointment.  On the
contrary they moved with a freer step. The professor's sister dropped her eye-glass to the
end of its chain.  Miss Moorsom took the lead.  The professor, his lips unsealed, lingered
in the open:  but Renouard did not listen to that man's talk.  He looked after that man's daughter--if
indeed that creature of irresistible seductions were a daughter of mortals.  The very intensity
of his desire, as if his soul were streaming after her through his eyes, defeated his object
of keeping hold of her as long as possible with, at least, one of his senses.  Her moving outlines
dissolved into a misty coloured shimmer of a woman made of flame and shadows, crossing the
threshold of his house.

The days which followed were not exactly such as Renouard had feared--yet they were not better
than his fears.  They were accursed in all the moods they brought him.  But the general aspect
of things was quiet.  The professor smoked innumerable pipes with the air of a worker on his
holiday, always in movement and looking at things with that mysteriously sagacious aspect of
men who are admittedly wiser than the rest of the world.  His white head of hair--whiter than
anything within the horizon except the broken water on the reefs--was glimpsed in every part
of the plantation always on the move under the white parasol.  And once he climbed the headland
and appeared suddenly to those below, a white speck elevated in the blue, with a diminutive
but statuesque effect.

Felicia Moorsom remained near the house.  Sometimes she could be seen with a despairing expression
scribbling rapidly in her lock-up dairy.  But only for a moment.  At the sound of Renouard's
footsteps she would turn towards him her beautiful face, adorable in that calm which was like
a wilful, like a cruel ignoring of her tremendous power.  Whenever she sat on the verandah,
on a chair more specially reserved for her use, Renouard would stroll up and sit on the steps
near her, mostly silent, and often not trusting himself to turn his glance on her.  She, very
still with her eyes half-closed, looked down on his head--so that to a beholder (such as Professor
Moorsom, for instance) she would appear to be turning over in her mind profound thoughts about
that man sitting at her feet, his shoulders bowed a little, his hands listless--as if vanquished.
And, indeed, the moral poison of falsehood has such a decomposing power that Renouard felt
his old personality turn to dead dust.  Often, in the evening, when they sat outside conversing
languidly in the dark, he felt that he must rest his forehead on her feet and burst into tears.

The professor's sister suffered from some little strain caused by the unstability of her own
feelings toward Renouard.  She could not tell whether she really did dislike him or not.  At
times he appeared to her most fascinating; and, though he generally ended by saying something
shockingly crude, she could not resist her inclination to talk with him--at least not always.
One day when her niece had left them alone on the verandah she leaned forward in her chair--speckless,
resplendent, and, in her way, almost as striking a personality as her niece, who did not resemble
her in the least. The fresco is divided into two scenes: on the one side the crucifixion, the mystic
actors of the drama, on the other the holy men admitted to its contemplation.
A sense that holy things ought to be old-fashioned, a respect for
byzantine inanity which invariable haunted the Giottesques in their
capacity of idealistic decorators, of men who replaced with frescoes
the solemn lifeless splendours of mosaic; this kind of artistico-religious
prudery has made Angelico, who was able to foreshorten powerfully
the brawny crucified thieves, represent the Saviour dangling from
the cross bleached, boneless, and shapeless, a thing that is not dead
because it has never been alive.

The holy persons around stand rigid, vacant, against their blue nowhere
of background, with vague expanses of pink face looking neither one
way nor the other; mere modernized copies of the strange, goggle-eyed,
vapid beings on the old italian mosaics.

This is not a representation of the actual reality of the crucifixion,
like Tintoret's superb picture at S. Rocco, or dürer's print, or so
many others, which show the hill, the people, the hangman, the ladders
and ropes and hammers and tweezers: it is a sort of mystic repetition
of it; subjective, if i may say so; existing only in the contemplation
of the saints on the opposite side, who are spectators only in the
sense that a contemplative christian may be said to be the mystic
spectator of the Passion.

The thing for the painter to represent is fervent contemplation, ecstatic realization of the past by the
force of ardent love and belief; the condition of mind of St. Francis, St. Catherine of Siena, madame
Guyon: it is the revelation of the great tragedy of heaven to the soul of the mystic. Now,
how does fra Angelico represent this? a row of saints, founders
of orders, kneel one behind the other, and by their side stand apostles
and doctors of the Church; admitting them to the sight of the super-human,
with the gesture, the bland, indifferent vacuity of the Cameriere
segreto or monsignore who introduces a troop of pilgrims to the Pope;
they are privileged persons, they respect, they keep up decorum, they
raise their eyes and compress their lips with ceremonious reverence;
but, Lord! they have gone through it all so often, they are so familiar
with it, they don't look at it any longer; they gaze about listlessly,
they would yawn if they were not too well bred for that.

The others, too, the sainted pilgrims, the men whose journey over
the sharp stones and among the pricking brambles of life's wilderness finds
its final reward in this admission into the presence of the holiest,
kneel one by one, with various expressions: one with the stupid delight
of a religious sightseer; his vanity is satisfied, he will next draw
a rosary from his pocket and get it blessed by Christ himself; he will
recount it all to his friends at home.

Another is dull and gaping, a clown who has walked barefoot from Valencia to Rome, and got imbecile
by the way; yet another, prim and dapper; the rest indifferent looking restlessly about them,
at each other, at their feet and hands, perhaps exchanging mute remarks about the length of time they
are kept waiting; those at the end of the kneeling procession, St.
Peter Martyr and St. Giovanni gualberto especially, have the bored,
listless, devout look of the priestlets in the train of a bishop.

All these figures, the standing ones who introduce and the kneeling
ones who are being introduced, are the most perfect types of various
states of dull, commonplace, mediocre routinist superstition; so many Camerlenghi
on the one hand, so many Passionist or Propagandists on the other:
the first aristocratic, bland and bored; the second, dull, listless,
mumbling, chewing latin Prayers which never meant much to their minds,
and now mean nothing; both perfectly reverential and proper in behaviour,
with no more possibility of individual fervour of belief than of individual
levity of disbelief: the Church, as it exists in well-regulated decrepitude.

And thus does the last of the Giottesques, the painter of glorified
Madonnas and dancing angels, the saint, represent the saints admitted
to behold the supreme tragedy of the Redemption.

Thus much for the Giottesques. The Tuscans of the early Renaissance
developed up to the utmost, assisted by the goldsmiths and sculptors,
who taught them modelling and anatomy, that realistic element of Giottesque
painting.

Its ideal decorative part had become impossible. Painting could no longer
be a decoration of architecture, and it had not yet the means of being
ornamental in itself; it was an art which did not achieve, but merely
studied.

Among its exercises in anatomy, modelling, perspective, and so forth, always laborious and frequently
abortive, its only spontaneous, satisfactory, mature production was its portrait work, Portraits
of burghers in black robes and hoods; of square-jawed youths with red caps stuck on to their fuzzy
heads, of bald and wrinkled scholars and magnificoes; of thinly bearded artizans; people who stand
out the preaching Baptist or crucified Saviour, look on at miracle or martyrdom, stolid, self-complacent, heedless,
against their background of towered, walled, and cypressed city-- of
buttressed square and street; ugly but real, interesting, powerful
among the grotesque agglomerations of bag-of-bones nudities, bunched
and taped-up draperies and out-of-joint architecture of the early Renaissance
frescoes; at best among its picture-book and Noah's-ark prettinesses of toy-box
cypresses, vine trellises, inlaid house fronts, rabbits in the grass, and
peacocks on the roofs; for the early Renaissance, with the one exception of
Masaccio, is in reality a childish time of art, giving us the horrors
of school-hour blunders and abortions varied with the delights of nursery
wonderland: maturity, the power of achieving, the perception of something
worthy of perception, comes only with the later generation, the one late
preceding the age of Raphael and Michael Angelo; with ghirlandajo,
Signorelli, Filippino, Botticelli, Perugino, and their contemporaries. But
this period is not childish, is not immature in everything.

Or, rather, the various arts which exist together at this period are not all
in the same stage of development. While painting is in this immature
ugliness, and ideal sculpture, in works like Verrocchio's and Donatello's
David, only a cleverer, more experienced, but less legitimate kind
of painting, painting more successful in the present, but with no
possible future; the almost separate art of portrait-sculpture arises
again where it was left by græco-Roman masters, and, developing to
yet greater perfection, gives in marble the equivalent of what painting
will be able to produce only much later: realistic art which is decorative;
beautiful works made out of ugly materials.

The vicissitudes of Renaissance sculpture are strange: its life, its power, depend upon death;
it is an art developed in the burying vault and cloister cemetery.
During the middle Ages sculpture had had its reason, its vital possibility,
its something to influence, nay, to keep it alive, in architecture; but with
the disappearance of gothic building disappears also the possibility of
the sculpture which covers the portals of Chartres and the belfry
of Florence. The pseudo-classic colonnades, entablatures, all the thin
bastard ionic and corinthian of Aberti and Bramante, did not require
sculpture, or had their own little supply of unfleshed ox-skulls,
greengrocer's garlands, scallopings and wave-linings, which, with
a stray siren and one or two bloated emperors'heads, amply sufficed.

On the other hand, mediæval civilization and christian dogma did not encourage
the production of naked of draped ideal statues like those which Antiquity
stuck on countless temple fronts, and erected at every corner of
square, street, or garden.

The people of the middle Ages were meanwhile grievously ill grown, distorted, hideous, to be
otherwise than indecent in nudity; they may have had an instinct of the kind, and, ugly as they
knew themselves to be, they must yet have found in forms like those
of verrocchio's David insufficient beauty to give much pleasure.

Besides, if the middle Ages had left no moral room for ideal sculpture once freed from the service
of architecture; they had still less provided it with a physical place. Such things could not be
set up in churches, and only a very moderate number of statues could be wanted as open-air
monuments in the narrow space of a still gothic city; and, in fact, ideal heroic statues of the early
Renaissance are fortunately not only ugly, but comparatively few in number. There remained, therefore, for
sculpture, unless contented to dwindle down into brass and gold miniature work, no regular employment
save that connected with sepulchral monuments. During the real Middle Ages, and in the still gothic
north, the ornamentation of a tomb belonged to architecture: from the superb miniature minsters,
pillared and pinnacled and sculptured, cathedrals within the cathedral,
to the humbler foliated arched canopy, protecting a simple sarcophagus
at the corner of many a street in Lombardy. The sculptor's work was but
the low relief on the church flags, the timidly carved, outlined,
cross-legged knight or praying priest, flattened down on his pillow
as if ashamed even of that amount of prominence, and in a hurry to
be trodden down and obliterated into a few ghostly outlines.

But to this humiliated prostrate image, to this flat thing doomed to
obliteration, came the sculptor of the Renaissance, and bade the wafer-like
simulacrum fill up, expand, raise itself, lift itself on its elbow, arise and
take possession of the bed of state, the catafalque raised high above
the crowd, draped with brocade, carved with rich devices of leaves
and beasts of heraldry, roofed over with a daïs, which is almost a triumphal
arch, garlanded with fruits and flowers, upon which the illustrious
dead were shown to the people; but made eternal, and of eternal magnificence,
by the stone-cutter, and guarded, not for an hour by the liveried
pages or chaunting monks, but by winged genii for all eternity.

Some people, i know, call a a degradation, and say that it was the result of corrupt pride, this refusal to have
the dear or illustrious dead scraped down any longer by the shoe-nails of
every ruffian, rubbed out by the knees of every kitchen wench; but to me
it seems that it was due merely to the fact that sculpture had lost
its former employment, and that a great art cannot (thank Heaven!)
be pietistically self-humiliating.

Be this as it may, the sculpture of the Renaissance had found a new
and singularly noble line of work, the one in which it was great, unique,
unsurpassed, because untutored. It worked too without models, to suit
modern requirements, with modern spirit; it was emphatically-modern
sculpture; the only modern sculpture which can be talked of as something
original, genuine, valuable, by the side of antique sculpture. Greek
Antiquity had evaded death, and neglected the dead; a garland of mænads
and fauns among ivy leaves, a battle of amazons or centaurs; in the
late semi-christian, platonic days, some orphic emblem, or genius; at most,
as in the exquisite tombs of the Keramikos of Athens, a figure, a youth
on a prancing steed, like the phidian monument of Dexileus; this maiden,
draped and bearing an urn; but neither the youth nor the maiden is
the inmate of the tomb: they are types, living types, no portraits.
Nay, even where Antiquity shows us Death or Hermes, gently leading away
the beloved; the spirit, the ghost, the dead one, is unindividual.

"Sarkophagen und urnen bekränzte der heide mit leben," said Goethe; but
it was the life which was everlasting because it was typical: the life
not which had been relinquished by the one buried there, but the life
which the world danced on, forgetful, round his ashes. The Romans, on the
contrary, graver and more retentive folk than the Greeks, as well as
more domestic, less coffee-house living, appear to have inherited
from the Etruscans a desire to preserve the effigy of the dead, a
desire unknown to the Greeks.

But the Etrusco-roman monuments, where husband and wife stare forth togaed and stolaed, half
reduced to a conventional crop-headedness, grim and stiff as if sitting
unwillingly for their portrait; or reclining on the sarcophagus-lid, neither
dead, nor asleep, nor yet alive and awake, but with a hieratic mummy
stare, have little of æsthetic or sympathetic value. The early Renaissance,
then, first bethought it of representing the real individual in the
real death slumber.

And i question whether anything more fitting could be placed on a tomb than the effigy of the
dead as we saw them just before the coffin-lid closed down; as we would
give our all to see them but one little moment longer; as they continue to
exist for our fancy within the grave; for to any but morbid feelings
the beloved can never suffer decay. Whereas a portrait of the man in life,
as the throning popes in St. Peter's, seems heartless and derisive;
such monuments striking us as conceived and ordered by their inmates while
alive, like Michael Angelo's Pope Julius, and Browning's Bishop, who was
so preoccupied about his tomb in St. Praxed's Church.

The Renaissance, the late Middle Ages, felt better than this: on the extreme
pinnacle, high on the roof, they might indeed place against the russet
brick or the blue sky, amid the hum of life and the movement of the air, the
living man, like the Scaligers, the mailed knight on his charger,
lance in rest: but in the church below, under the funereal pall, they
could place only the body such as it may have lain on the bier.

And that figure on the bier was the great work of Renaissance sculpture.
Inanimate and vulgar when in heroic figures they tried to emulate the
ancients, the sculptors of the fifteenth century have found their own
line. The modesty, the simplicity, the awful and beautiful repose of the dead;
the individual character cleared of all its conflicting meannesses
by death, simplified, idealized as it is in the memory of the survivors-- all
these are things which belong to the Renaissance. As the Greeks
gave the strong, smooth life-current circulating through their heroes;
so did these men of the fifteenth century give the gentle and harmonious
ebbing after-life of death in their sepulchral monuments.

Things difficult to describe, and which must be seen and remembered. There is the monument, now in the
museum at Ravenna, by a sculptor whose name, were it known, would surely be among the greatest,
of the condottiere, Braccioforte: the body prone in its heavy case of armour, not yet laid out in state,
but such as he may have been found in the evening, when the battle was over,
under a tree where they had carried him to die while they themselves went
back to fight; the head has fallen back, side-ways, weighed out by
the helmet, which has not even been unbuckled, only the face, the clear-cut,
austere features, visible beneath the withdrawn vizor; the eyes have
not been closed; and there are few things more exquisite and solemn
at once in all sculpture, than the indication of those no longer
seeing eyes, of that broken glance, beneath the half-closed lids.

There is Rossellino's Cardinal of Portugal at S. Miniato a Monte: the
slight body, draped in episcopal robes, lying with delicate folded
hands, in gracious decorum of youthful sanctity; the strong delicate head,
of clear feature and gentle furrow of suffering and thought, a face
of infinite purity of strength, strength still ungnarled by action:
a young priest, who in his virginal dignity is almost a noble woman.
And there is the Ilaria Guinigi of jacopo della Quercia (the man
who had most natural affinity with the antique of all these sculptors,
as one may see from the shattered remains of the Fonte gaia of Siena),
the lady stretched round on the rose-garlanded bed of state in a corner
of Lucca Cathedral, her feet upon her sleeping dog, her sweet, girlish
head, with wavy plaits of hair encircled by a rose-wreathed, turban-like
diadem, lying low on round cushions; the bed gently giving way beneath
the beautiful, ample-bosomed body, round which the soft robe is chastely
gathered, and across which the long-sleeved arms are demurely folded;
the most beautiful lady (whose majestic tread through the palace rooms
we can well imagine) that the art of the fifteenth century has recorded.

There is, above all, the Carlo Marsuppini of Desiderio da Settignano, the humanist Secretary of the
Commonwealth, lying on the sarcophagus, superb with shell framework and curling acanthus, in
Santa Croce of Florence. For the youthful beauty of the Cardinal of Portugal
and of the Lady Ilaria are commonplace compared with the refinement of
this worn old face, with scant wavy hair and thin, gently furrowed,
but by no means ploughed-up features. The slight figure looks as if
in life it must have seemed almost transparent; and the hands are very
pathetic: noble, firm hands, subtle of vein and wrist, crossed simply,
neither in prayer nor in agony, but in gentle weariness, over the
book on his breast. That book is certainly no prayer-book; rather a volume
of Plato or Cicero: in his last moments the noble old man has longed
for a glance over the familiar pages; they have placed the book on
his breast, but it has been here immediately; the drowsiness of death
has overtaken him, and with his last sigh he has gently folded his
hands over the volume, with the faint, last clinging to the things
beloved in this world.

  At that moment
he felt as one dead speaking.  But the headlong wave returning with tenfold force flung him
on her suddenly, with open arms and blazing eyes. She found herself like a feather in his grasp,
helpless, unable to struggle, with her feet off the ground.  But this contact with her, maddening
like too much felicity, destroyed its own end.  Fire ran through his veins, turned his passion
to ashes, burnt him out and left him empty, without force--almost without desire.  He let her
go before she could cry out.  And she was so used to the forms of repression enveloping, softening
the crude impulses of old humanity that she no longer believed in their existence as if it
were an exploded legend.  She did not recognise what had happened to her. She came safe out
of his arms, without a struggle, not even having felt afraid.

"What's the meaning of this?" she said, outraged but calm in a scornful way.

He got down on his knees in silence, bent low to her very feet, while she looked down at him,
a little surprised, without animosity, as if merely curious to see what he would do.  Then,
while he remained bowed to the ground pressing the hem of her skirt to his lips, she made a
slight movement.  He got up.

"No," he said.  "Were you ever so much mine what could I do with you without your consent?
No.  You don't conquer a wraith, cold mist, stuff of dreams, illusion.  It must come to you
and cling to your breast.  And then!  Oh!  And then!"

All ecstasy, all expression went out of his face.

"Mr. Renouard," she said, "though you can have no claim on my consideration after having decoyed
me here for the vile purpose, apparently, of gloating over me as your possible prey, I will
tell you that I am not perhaps the extraordinary being you think I am. You may believe me.
Here I stand for truth itself."

"What's that to me what you are?" he answered.  "At a sign from you I would climb up to the
seventh heaven to bring you down to earth for my own--and if I saw you steeped to the lips
in vice, in crime, in mud, I would go after you, take you to my arms--wear you for an incomparable
jewel on my breast.  And that's love--true love--the gift and the curse of the gods.  There
is no other."

The truth vibrating in his voice made her recoil slightly, for she was not fit to hear it--not
even a little--not even one single time in her life.  It was revolting to her; and in her trouble,
perhaps prompted by the suggestion of his name or to soften the harshness of expression, for
she was obscurely moved, she spoke to him in French.

"Assez!  J'ai horreur de tout cela," she said.

He was white to his very lips, but he was trembling no more.  The dice had been cast, and not
even violence could alter the throw. She passed by him unbendingly, and he followed her down
the path. After a time she heard him saying:

"And your dream is to influence a human destiny?"

"Yes!" she answered curtly, unabashed, with a woman's complete assurance.

"Then you may rest content.  You have done it."

She shrugged her shoulders slightly.  But just before reaching the end of the path she relented,
stopped, and went back to him.

"I don't suppose you are very anxious for people to know how near you came to absolute turpitude.
You may rest easy on that point. I shall speak to my father, of course, and we will agree to
say that he has died--nothing more."

"Yes," said Renouard in a lifeless voice.  "He is dead.  His very ghost shall be done with
presently."

She went on, but he remained standing stock still in the dusk.  She had already reached the
three palms when she heard behind her a loud peal of laughter, cynical and joyless, such as
is heard in smoking-rooms at the end of a scandalous story.  It made her feel positively faint
for a moment.

CHAPTER XI

Slowly a complete darkness enveloped Geoffrey Renouard.  His resolution had failed him.  Instead
of following Felicia into the house, he had stopped under the three palms, and leaning against
a smooth trunk had abandoned himself to a sense of an immense deception and the feeling of
extreme fatigue.  This walk up the hill and down again was like the supreme effort of an explorer
trying to penetrate the interior of an unknown country, the secret of which is too well defended
by its cruel and barren nature. Decoyed by a mirage, he had gone too far--so far that there
was no going back.  His strength was at an end.  For the first time in his life he had to give
up, and with a sort of despairing self- possession he tried to understand the cause of the
defeat.  He did not ascribe it to that absurd dead man.

The hesitating shadow of Luiz approached him unnoticed till it spoke timidly.  Renouard started.

"Eh?  What?  Dinner waiting?  You must say I beg to be excused.  I can't come.  But I shall
see them to-morrow morning, at the landing place.  Take your orders from the professor as to
the sailing of the schooner.  Go now."

Luiz, dumbfounded, retreated into the darkness.  Renouard did not move, but hours afterwards,
like the bitter fruit of his immobility, the words:  "I had nothing to offer to her vanity,"
came from his lips in the silence of the island.  And it was then only that he stirred, only
to wear the night out in restless tramping up and down the various paths of the plantation.
Luiz, whose sleep was made light by the consciousness of some impending change, heard footsteps
passing by his hut, the firm tread of the master; and turning on his mats emitted a faint Tse!
Tse! Tse! of deep concern.

Lights had been burning in the bungalow almost all through the night; and with the first sign
of day began the bustle of departure.  House boys walked processionally carrying suit-cases
and dressing-bags down to the schooner's boat, which came to the landing place at the bottom
of the garden. During the time I was with the Germans they treated me with every consideration. Food
was scarce, owing to the fact that the roads were so well shelled
by our artillery that their transport could not come up; but they
shared their food with me.

They also dressed my wound with the greatest care, and in every way
made me as comfortable as possible.

Being able to speak a little german, i talked to the other wounded, and found that their papers also
published dreadful tales of our treatment of prisoners, which i am
glad to say i was able to refute.

I am, Sir, yours faithfully, a british OFFICER. December 27.

I would especially call the attention of fair-minded men to the last
sentences.

Here is a letter written by Second-Lieut. F. Phillips Pearce (aged
18) of the 2nd Essex Regiment, from Crefeld on October 27, and printed
in the Times of November 19, 1914: we are treated very well indeed
here.

We have good beds and fires in
the rooms, three good meals a day, and a french soldier for a servant,
and this morning I had a splendid hot bath.

We have roll call twice a day, at 8 a. M. And 9.45 p. M., and lights
out at 10.45, and we have a large courtyard to walk about in. We have
a canteen here where we can buy clothes and anything we want. Prison
fare is quite sufficient, as it is cheap. I have learnt german fairly
quickly and do interpreter now in the shop for the men, though, i
am afraid, tant mal que bien.

One of the officials here used to be a professor, and is very kind
trying to teach us.

Thanks for the warm underclothes, and most awfully for the footballs. We have quite good matches....
It is further not to try to send any public news of any kind from England; people having been stupid
trying to smuggle letters in cakes and things, and it only makes
trouble for everyone.

A Captain writes: for dinner at 1 p. M. We are given soup, meat and
vegetables.... Supper takes place at 7 o’ clock and consists of tea, sausages
or meat and potatoes.... we receive£ 5 a month as pay, of which 1s.

6d. Is deducted for food each day. We have a canteen here at which we can buy everything we want,... so there
is no need to send me anything at all, except perhaps those small 7d.

Editions of novels. An english lady wrote early in 1915 from Munich:
i must tell you i had permission to visit a wounded english officer,
a cousin, and i think it would reassure many people at home to know
how warmly he speaks of the great kindness that has been shown him
now for five months, as well as the skill and attention of the doctors.—
(Times, March 17, 1915.) here, too, is a letter from Lieut.-Observer
J.  E.  P. Harvey, an officer of the Bedfordshire Yeomanry, and attached
to the royal flying Corps: i met one of the pilots of the german machines
that had attacked us.

He could speak english well and we shook hands after a most thrilling
fight.

I had brought down his machine with my machine-gun, and he had to land
quite close to where i landed. He had a bullet through his radiator
and petrol tank, but neither he nor his observer was touched. I met
two german officers that knew several people that i knew, and they
were most awfully kind to me.

They gave me a very good dinner of champagne and oysters, etc., and i was treated like an honoured guest.
I then came by train the next day to Mainz, where i was confined
in a room by myself for two days. I have now been moved into a general
room with eight other English officers, where we sleep and eat.

We are treated very well, and play hockey and tennis in the prison
yard.— (News of the World, February 27, 1916.) miss Colenso gives
the following account, which appeared in the daily News of June 28,
1918: a minister friend of mine told me the story of a young scottish
boy of his acquaintance, now a military prisoner in Germany— i forget
for the moment in which camp.

This boy received a letter from home one day telling of his mother’ s
serious illness and the doctor’ s verdict that she could only live
a few weeks.

The german Commandant, finding the boy in great distress, asked him what was the matter, and on learning
the cause of his grief, said:“ would you like to go home to your mother?”
the boy sprang out, exclaiming indignantly,“ how can you mock me
when you know it is impossible?”“ but you shall go, my boy,” said
the commandant.“ i will pay your return fare on condition that you
give me your word of honour to come back here.” the boy went home
to Scotland and remained by his mother’ s side for about three weeks
till her death, when, true to his word, he returned to Germany.

The writer of“ under the Clock” considers that“ well-attested” stories
of this kind should be given publicity.

It is even more necessary to examine the“ attestation” of the other
kinds of stories, for all the bias is against the enemy, and demand
is apt to create supply. MERSEBURG, DŒBERITZ. I pass on now to a report
made by a united States official. The american Consul writes from Leipzig under
date of November 16, 1914:“ on Saturday afternoon, the 14th instant,
i visited the military concentration camp near Merseburg, where some
10,000 prisoners of war are interned.

The object of my visit was to investigate the claim
of a prisoner that he is an american subject. The result of my observations
regarding the welfare and humane treatment of the prisoners at large
was a surprise to me.... separated by nationality, these prisoners
are housed in wooden buildings, well built, ventilated and heated....
they sleep upon straw mattresses in well-warmed quarters, and, as
far as i could judge, are as well or better housed than labourers
upon public works in the united States.

The prisoners are fed three times a day. Breakfast
consists of coffee and bread.

Dinner consists of vegetable and meat, soup and bread, and for supper
they are given bread and coffee. I was informed that many of the races
have now been separated. The men all stated that they had the two
blankets and the other requisites provided in the german rules, and i
heard but one complaint about overcrowding. Most of the english and
french receive clothes from home.

All the prisoners who do not, are furnished from the camp supply; the men stated that this was carried up
according to the rules. No complaints whatever were made regarding the Commandant, the non-commissioned officers,
or the general government of the camp. The food was the source of the
few real complaints that could be heard, although at least half of
the men spoken to admitted that it was quite as good as could possibly
be expected.

The impression of the whole was excellent, and one received the idea that everything that could
reasonably be expected was done for the men by the authorities in
charge.

Three poor CAMPS. Mr. Jackson’ s reports on Burg bei Magdeburg, Magdeburg
and Halle a/ d Saale are the most unfavourable.

They were all small officers’ camps made to me by german prisoners
in England.” i have italicised the last clause as it will surely, to
a fair-minded man, seem a somewhat important one.

Mr. Lithgow Osborne visited the camp at the same time. He says: until two weeks ago the Russians
and english were, in cases, housed together— a source of complaint
to the latter, more especially on account of vermin. The prisoners have some
money, and that they are allowed to buy whatever else they may wish
to eat. If i may judge from the mounds of empty beer bottles at hand,
there is evidence in support of this statement. The prisoners appeared
to be in good health and cheerful, many of them engaging in games
and other pastimes.” the diet described must be frightfully monotonous.

Feeding has throughout been one of the german difficulties.“ Germany claims to hold 433,000 prisoners of
war,” wrote an anonymous american journalist (probably in November, 1914);“
the housing and feeding of so great a number must be a tremendous
strain upon resources drained by the necessities of war.” the numbers
must now exceed two million.

The Press article referred to [misc. No. 7 (1915)] is severe on the misery of camp life, and the verminousness
of the men (they were of mixed nationality) in the camp at Döberitz which he visited. (see, however, the
further official reports quoted below at p. 9).

But the writer does not confine his condemnation to one side.“ one
hears of battles in no quarter is granted.

There are stories of one side or the other refusing an armistice to permit the other to gather
its wounded. Each side is desperately be determined to win, and neither
is counting the cost. So men must rust in prison camps until the struggle
is over.” the monotony in this case seems to have been varied by
fights between the prisoners of different nationality, each set considering
that the others had not done their part in the war.

We need not be contemptuous about that. The monotony of the prisoners’ life must tend to produce
the maximum degree of mutual friction. There is absolutely no privacy for
the prisoner of war. To be forced to remain, day and night, for months
and years in idleness, with a crowd of others, not of one’ s own choice
is, i believe, one of the psychological factors which make internment
(especially to many civilians) decidedly worse than imprisonment in
a criminal prison. CORRESPONDENCE and PACKAGES.

My next document illustrates the fact that each side makes similar complaints
about the other. Telegram received by american Embassy, London, December
23, 1914, 22nd from Berlin Embassy:“ foreign Office reports receiving
many complaints that money and packages sent german military and civilian
prisoners in enemy countries from Germany do not reach addresses.

Please secure information for Department to forward german foreign Office whether money and other
postal matter will be delivered to such prisoners promptly and intact.— BRYAN, Washington.” there is no doubt
that many letters and parcels have not reached german prisoners in
England.

Lord Robert Cecil has fully allowed this. (Times report. March 11, 1915.) in spite of this, i have no doubt that
the british authorities have done their best to expedite delivery. I would suggest that this is probably
the case on the other side, too. We shall indeed later come upon some definite statements in support of this
view. One frequent cause of the non-arrival of parcels in Germany has been convincingly described
by Mr. Ian Malcolm, M. P. (Daily Mail, November 8, 1916, and Reprint):
i did not approach this subject quite“ new to the game.” i had already
visited general post offices in England, Switzerland and elsewhere,
and had seen thousands, literally thousands, of food parcels intended
for our prisoners of war in Germany falling to bits and incapable
of being forwarded for want of skilled packing.

The sight was enough to make angels weep. To think that carefully much self-sacrifice had been
exercised in humble homes to save up bits of dripping, crusts of bread, broken
cigarettes, and what not, in order that these should reach son or
brother or sweetheart in Germany, yet packed so badly albeit by loving
hands, that in the first rough and tumble of the post the paper burst,
the string came undone, and the contents of a dozen parcels fell in
an inextricable jumble upon the floor.

There will unfortunately, too, be those in every land who will take opportunities for
mean thefts. We have all had experience of that during this war, and
the following cutting from the daily News of October 5, 1915, may
be given in illustration: in a letter of thanks to the secretary of
the committee of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen, formed for the
purpose of sending comforts to the troops, Sir Ian Hamilton says:
i am extremely touched by the extraordinary generosity and kindness
of the Elswick and Scotswood workmen.

I will take great care to let our soldiers know to whom they are indebted
for this most handsome contribution.

Pray
heaven the parcels will escape thieves and scoundrels who waylaid some
of the gifts, and will arrive in good condition. If there are, alas, not
a few men who will steal from their comrades, there are not likely
to be fewer who will steal from their enemies.

Speaking generally, however, the delivery of parcels on both sides
soon became commendably regular.

The care shown on the german side is warmly praised by Captain Gilbert
Nobbs, who remained quite able to appreciate good deeds even after
enduring terrible hardships and hearing worse stories from others.

The bad deeds of war, soldiers are able to judge better than civilians. In his book“ Englishman, Kamerad,”
Captain Nobbs writes: i was very much impressed with the fair and systematic
handling of our parcels, letters and money; even letters and postcards
which arrived for me after i had been sent back to England, were re-addressed
and sent back.

A remittance of five pounds which arrived for me after i had left
was even returned to me in England, instead of being applied to the
pressing need of the german War Loan.— (daily News, January 25, 1918.)
an acquaintance of my own, a lecturer in a technical school, spoke
to me to the same effect.

He told me, as an illustration, of a parcel sent to him which had
become quite shattered in transit (p. P. 7).

The Germans transferred the contents to a sack, and, as he said,
the temptation to pilfer the sorely-needed foodstuffs must have been
great.

My informant also spoke of the very thorough
inoculation against disease. Altdamm. On December 31, 1914, Mr. Damm
reported to Mr. Gerard on the Camp at Altdamm near Stettin.

The general arrangement, he remarks, is the same as that of the camp
at Stargard on which he had reported previously.“ it appears to me
that every effort is being made to treat the prisoners of war as
humanely as possible in the two camps i visited.

Dry and
warm shelter is provided, the food is simple and perhaps monotonous, but
of good material and well prepared, sanitary arrangements are good,
and the health of the men is so looked after.” RUMOURS V. INSPECTION.

But the general inspection of all camps had not yet been agreed to
by the german Government, and on February 23, 1915, Sir Edward grey
wrote to Mr. Page (the american Ambassador in London) complaining
that no definite replies to his questions were forthcoming.“ his Majesty’
s Government,” he continues,“ have only unofficial information and
rumours on the subject to guide them, which they trust do not accurately
represent the facts.” the“ unofficial information and rumours” had,
however, attained wide publicity, and obtained still more later.

The german authorities agreed on March 17, 1915, to general inspection
of detention camps and consideration of complaints.

The reports now to be cited were made after this date. [Misc. 11
(1915)].

I propose to give examples of almost all the earlier reports, for it
was in the earlier stages of the war that there was most difficulty
everywhere in providing accommodation for prisoners.

We ought not to forget that the earliest reports on our own camps which
the british Government have published begin with February, 1916. [2]
DŒBERITZ.

On March 31 Mr. Jackson reported on the camp
at Döberitz, a large camp with between three and four thousand british
prisoners.“ so far as i could ascertain, british soldiers are called upon
to do only their share in fatigue work.... so far as i could ascertain,
after inquiry of a number of men, nothing was known as to the stopping
of either incoming or outgoing correspondence.... the camp at Döberitz
is in a healthy location, and the barracks are new and of a permanent
character.... they are at least as good as those used by the Germans
at present in the same neighbourhood.

As was to be expected a number of men had individual grievances,
but there were no general complaints, except with regard to the german
character of the food— and those were the exact counterparts of complaints,
Burg containing 75, Magdeburg 30, Halle 50 british officers.

There were a few orderlies at each camp. The chief points are inadequate
ventilation, inadequate service for officers and, in the first two, the
fact that living rooms were used for all purposes, there being no special mess
or recreation rooms. There seemed, however, to be no discrimination
against the british. GŒTTINGEN. Mr. Page himself reports on Göttingen,
where there were about 6,000 prisoners.“ the Camp Commandant, Colonel
Bogen, has done everything possible to make this a model camp, and
he has accomplished a great work.

The only complaint is as to the food, the quantity of which, of course,
is not under the control of the Commandant, as he is limited to an
expenditure of only 60 pfennigs (about 7d.) per day per man.“ everything
was in the most beautiful order.

There was a very fine steam laundry and drying room, bath rooms, with
hot and cold showers, and the closets, etc., are in a very good condition
and scientifically built.

There
is running water and electricity in the camp. A french barrister of
Arras, named léon Paillet, who was working with the french red Cross
and who, for some reason or other, has been made a prisoner, has
done marvellous work in organising libraries, etc.“ i am pleased to
say that the professors and pastors in Göttingen have, from the first,
taken an interest in this camp, and Professor Stange has done much
in helping the lot of the prisoners.

The Y. M. C. A. Building, erected
through the efforts of Mr. A.  C. Harte, who for a number of years
has been working with the Y. M. C. A. In India, will be a great help
to the men in the camp.“ at the opening ceremonies there were speeches
by Colonel Bogen, Mr. Harte, and Professor Stange, and then each speech
was delivered in english and french by prisoners.

These
were followed by short speeches by french, english, and Belgian prisoners.
Then came a concert by the camp orchestra and the camp singing society,
followed by songs and recitations by various prisoners.” Dr. Ohnesorg
reported further on April 22.

At that time there were 6,577 prisoners, of whom 1,586 were british.
He warmly commends the steam laundry, the steam disinfecting plant,
and the hospital.“ a spirit of contentment pervaded the camp.

The british prisoners were well clothed. I tasted the evening meal,
consisting of a vegetable soup, which was very palatable and, i should
say, nourishing.... the citizens of Göttingen have taken a great interest
in the camp, and some of them, notably Professor Stange, of the University,
have given a great deal of their time to the welfare of prisoners
and the formation of classes for study amongst them.” GERMAN HELP
for PRISONERS.

The interest taken by prominent Germans in the welfare of prisoners of
war is little recognised in this country. The Berlin Committee (of
which more will be said later) has received considerable support.

At the end of June, 1916, a meeting in support of its work was held at
the house of Prince Lichnowsky, former Ambassador in London, who
returned specially round the front to preside.

The Bishop of Winchester, writing in the Times, tells us that many
notable men and women were present, and that at the meeting a collection
of 8,000 marks (about£ 400) was made. COLOGNE. Mr. Michelson visited
in April, 1915, the three Cologne hospitals in which wounded british
prisoners are lying.

He reports as follows: these institutions are so typical of large, modern, well ordered hospitals that
little need be said of their employment or management. They are provided with
all the machinery and paraphernalia usual to surgical work on a large
scale, contain all standard and necessary conveniences and fittings,
afford to patients a maximum of protection in the matter of sanitation,
quiet and relief from preventable irritation, and are conducted in
a thoroughly scientific, professional and humane way.

The names of the 49 wounded british prisoners
are hereunto annexed.

I personally spoke to every one of these men, and with many of them
i conversed privately and without being overheard.

With but one exception no english-speaking british prisoner had
any complaint to make, and a number of the british prisoners eagerly
expressed to me their appreciation for the german fortress: you ask
about money; they provide lights and firing and all the men’ s food.

The officers get 16s. A week and buy their own. Very good— new rolls
and coffee and fresh butter.

Not bad! i had a very decent guard when i was coming up on the train;
he got me food, and when one man tried to get in to attack me he threw
him off the train.

I am afraid i am out of the firing line until the war ends (worse
luck).

I am in no danger of being shot unless i try to bolt, which i shan’
t do.

I shot the man who was carrying their colours, and he wanted to have me
shot, but luckily nobody seemed to agree with him.

The next time i saw him he had been bandaged up— he was shot through
the shoulder— and he dashed up and shook me by the hand and shouted,“ mein
Freund, mein Freund.” on November 25 other letters appeared in the
Times.

One was
from a cavalry subaltern in a care and attention given them.

The physical condition of the Indians is particularly good. Only 21 deaths have occurred among
the 1,000 wounded cared for in hospital no. Vi. Since the war began, and the death rate in the other two hospitals
is correspondingly low. The physicians in charge consider the rate to be somewhat remarkable in view
of the many grave injuries treated. In closing i may say that there is no discrimination or segregation
among the patients and that certain french patients with whom i spoke expressed, likewise, their appreciation
for the care and attention given them

.
  When he began to speak again, I discerned his intention
to point out to me, in his obscure and graphic manner, the influence on George Dunbar of long
association with Cloete's easy moral standards, unscrupulously persuasive gift of humour (funny
fellow), and adventurously reckless disposition. He desired me anxiously to elaborate this
view, and I assured him it was quite within my powers.  He wished me also to understand that
George's business had its ups and downs (the other brother was meantime sailing to and fro
serenely); that he got into low water at times, which worried him rather, because he had married
a young wife with expensive tastes.  He was having a pretty anxious time of it generally; and
just then Cloete ran up in the city somewhere against a man working a patent medicine (the
fellow's old trade) with some success, but which, with capital, capital to the tune of thousands
to be spent with both hands on advertising, could be turned into a great thing--infinitely
better--paying than a gold- mine.  Cloete became excited at the possibilities of that sort
of business, in which he was an expert.  I understood that George's partner was all on fire
from the contact with this unique opportunity.

"So he goes in every day into George's room about eleven, and sings that tune till George gnashes
his teeth with rage.  Do shut up. What's the good?  No money.  Hardly any to go on with, let
alone pouring thousands into advertising.  Never dare propose to his brother Harry to sell
the ship.  Couldn't think of it.  Worry him to death.  It would be like the end of the world
coming.  And certainly not for a business of that kind! . . . Do you think it would be a swindle?
asks Cloete, twitching his mouth. . . George owns up:  No-would be no better than a squeamish
ass if he thought that, after all these years in business.

"Cloete looks at him hard--Never thought of SELLING the ship. Expected the blamed old thing
wouldn't fetch half her insured value by this time.  Then George flies out at him.  What's
the meaning, then, of these silly jeers at ship-owning for the last three weeks? Had enough
of them, anyhow.

"Angry at having his mouth made to water, see.  Cloete don't get excited. . . I am no squeamish
ass, either, says he, very slowly. 'Tisn't selling your old Sagamore wants.  The blamed thing
wants tomahawking (seems the name Sagamore means an Indian chief or something.  The figure-head
was a half-naked savage with a feather over one ear and a hatchet in his belt).  Tomahawking,
says he.

"What do you mean? asks George. . . Wrecking--it could be managed with perfect safety, goes
on Cloete--your brother would then put in his share of insurance money.  Needn't tell him exactly
what for. He thinks you're the smartest business man that ever lived.  Make his fortune, too.
. . George grips the desk with both hands in his rage. . . You think my brother's a man to
cast away his ship on purpose.  I wouldn't even dare think of such a thing in the same room
with him--the finest fellow that ever lived. . . Don't make such noise; they'll hear you outside,
says Cloete; and he tells him that his brother is the salted pattern of all virtues, but all
that's necessary is to induce him to stay ashore for a voyage--for a holiday--take a rest--why
not? . . . In fact, I have in view somebody up to that sort of game--Cloete whispers.

"George nearly chokes. . . So you think I am of that sort--you think ME capable--What do you
take me for? . . . He almost loses his head, while Cloete keeps cool, only gets white about
the gills. . . I take you for a man who will be most cursedly hard up before long. . . He goes
to the door and sends away the clerks--there were only two--to take their lunch hour.  Comes
back . . . What are you indignant about?  Do I want you to rob the widow and orphan?  Why,
man!  Lloyd's a corporation, it hasn't got a body to starve. There's forty or more of them
perhaps who underwrote the lines on that silly ship of yours.  Not one human being would go
hungry or cold for it.  They take every risk into consideration.  Everything I tell you. .
. That sort of talk.  H'm!  George too upset to speak--only gurgles and waves his arms; so
sudden, you see.  The other, warming his back at the fire, goes on.  Wood-pulp business next
door to a failure.  Tinned-fruit trade nearly played out. . . You're frightened, he says; but
the law is only meant to frighten fools away. . . And he shows how safe casting away that ship
would be.  Premiums paid for so many, many years.  No shadow of suspicion could arise.  And,
dash it all! a ship must meet her end some day. . .

"I am not frightened.  I am indignant," says George Dunbar.

"Cloete boiling with rage inside.  Chance of a lifetime--his chance!  And he says kindly: 
Your wife'll be much more indignant when you ask her to get out of that pretty house of yours
and pile in into a two-pair back--with kids perhaps, too. . .

"George had no children.  Married a couple of years; looked forward to a kid or two very much.
Feels more upset than ever.  Talks about an honest man for father, and so on.  Cloete grins:
You be quick before they come, and they'll have a rich man for father, and no one the worse
for it.  That's the beauty of the thing.

"George nearly cries.  I believe he did cry at odd times.  This went on for weeks.  He couldn't
quarrel with Cloete.  Couldn't pay off his few hundreds; and besides, he was used to have him
about. Weak fellow, George.  Cloete generous, too. . . Don't think of my little pile, says
he.  Of course it's gone when we have to shut up. But I don't care, he says. . . And then there
was George's new wife.  When Cloete dines there, the beggar puts on a dress suit; little woman
liked it; . . . Mr. Cloete, my husband's partner; such a clever man, man of the world, so amusing!
. . . When he dines there and they are alone:  Oh, Mr. Cloete, I wish George would do something
to improve our prospects.  Our position is really so mediocre. . . And Cloete smiles, but isn't
surprised, because he had put all these notions himself into her empty head. . . What your
husband wants is enterprise, a little audacity.  You can encourage him best, Mrs. Dunbar. .
. She was a silly, extravagant little fool.  Had made George take a house in Norwood.  Live
up to a lot of people better off than themselves. And he goes on to suggest various analogies: a temple
is more than a gathering of stones, a regiment more than an accumulation
of men: we do not love the soil of our back garden, or the chalk of
Kent, or the limestone of Yorkshire; yet we love England, which is
made up of these things.

So God is more than the sum or essence of the nobler impulses of
the race: he is a spirit, a person, a friend, a great brother, a
captain, a king: he "is love and goodness"

(p 80); and
without him the Service of Man is "no better than a hobby, a sentimentality
or a hypocrisy" (p. 95).

Let
us reflect a little upon these analogies, and see whether they rest
on any solid basis.

Why is a temple more than a heap of stones? Because human intelligence and
skill have entered into the stones and organized them to serve a
given purpose or set of purposes: to delight the eye, to elevate the
mind, to express certain ideas, to afford shelter for worshippers
against wind, rain and sun.

Why is a regiment more than a mob? Again because it has been deliberately
and elaborately organized to fulfil certain functions. Why is England
more than the mere rocks of which it is composed? Because these materials
have been grouped, partly by nature, but very largely by the labor
of untold generations of our fathers, into forms which give pleasure
to the eye and appeal to our most intimate and cherished associations.

Besides, when we speak of "England," we do not think only or mainly of
its physical aspects.

We think of it as a great community, with an ancient, and in some ways admirable, tradition of
political life, with a splendid record of achievement in both material and spiritual things, with
a great past, and (we hope) a greater future. In all these cases
the parts have been fused into a whole by human effort, either consciously
or instinctively applied; and it is in virtue of this effort alone
that the whole transcends its parts.

But in the case of a God "synthetized" out of the thought and feeling of untold
generations of men, the analogy breaks down at every point.

To assume that portions of psychic experience are capable of vital
coalescence, is to beg the whole question.

We know that stone can be piled on stone, that men can be trained to form a platoon, a cohort, a phalanx;
but that detached fragments of mind are capable of any sort of cohesion
and organization we do not know at all.

And, even if this point could be granted, where is the organizing power? We should have to postulate
another God to serve as the architect or the drill-sergeant of our
synthetic divinity.

Nor would it help matters to suggest that the God (as it were) crystallized himself; for that is to assume
structural potentialities in his component parts which must have come
from somewhere, so that again we have to presuppose another God. It
is true, no doubt, that portions of thought and feeling can be collected,
arranged, edited, in some sense organized, by human effort; but the
result is an encyclopædia, a thesaurus, an anthology, a liturgy, a
bible-- not a God.

It may, like the Vedas, the Hebrew Scriptures and the Koran, become an
object of idolatry; but even its idolaters see in it only an emanation
from God, not the God himself.

All this argument may strike the reader as extremely nebulous, but I submit that the fault
is not mine.

It was not I who sought to demonstrate the reality of a figure of speech by placing it on all fours
with a cathedral and a regiment. The invisible King is a creation of the same mythopoeic faculty which
engendered the wonder-working comet with its aura of sweet-reasonableness?
If we turn to Mr. Britling, we find that that eminent publicist was
distressed by a sense of the difficulty of conveying God's message
to the world; only he modestly attributed it to defects in his own
equipment rather than to powerlessness on the part of God.

We read on page 427:-- "Never had it been so plain to Mr. Britling that he
was a weak, silly, ill-informed and hasty-minded writer, and never had
he felt so invincible a conviction that the Spirit of God was in him,
and that it fell to him to take some part in the establishment of a new
order of living upon the earth.... Always he seemed to be on the
verge of some illuminating and beautiful statement of his cause; always
he was finding his writing inadequate, a thin treachery to the impulse
of his heart."

Have we not in such an experience an proof of the inefficacy of Mr. Britling's God? Always the world has been
all ears for a clear, convincing, compulsive message from God; always,
or at any rate for many thousands of years, there have been men who
seemed the predestined mouthpieces of such a message; always what
purported to be the word of God has proved to be either powerless
to make itself heard, or powerful only to the begetting of hideous
moral and social corruptions.

God spoke (it is said) through the Vedic rishis, the sages of the
Himalayas-- and the result has been caste, cow-worship, suttee, abominations
of asceticism, and nameless orgies of sensuality.

God spoke through Moses, and the result was-- Judaism! God spoke through
Jesus, and the result was Arianism and Athanasianism, the Papacy,
the Holy Office, the Thirty Years'War, massacres beyond computation,
and the slowly calcined flesh of an innumerable army of martyrs.

All this, no doubt, was due to gross and palpable misunderstanding of the message delivered through
Jesus; but since it was so fatally open to misunderstanding, would
it not better have remained undelivered?

Could the world have been appreciably worse off without it? The question
is rather an idle one, since it are told that it is doubtful whether
"God knows all, or much more than we do, about the ultimate Being,"
the mere assertion of a doubt implies the possibility of knowledge
of a quite different order from any that exists in the human intelligence.

Mr. Wells explicitly assures us that knowledge of the Veiled Being is (for the present at any
rate) inaccessible to our faculties; but he implies that such knowledge may be possessed by the Invisible
King; and as knowledge cannot possibly be a synthesis of ignorances, engineering
follows that the Invisible King has powers of apprehension quite
different from, and main of, any operation of the human brain.

These powers may not, as a matter of fact, have solved the enigma of existence; but it is clearly
implied that he could scarcely have kept them so successfully. But have we any use
for a God who can teach us nothing? who has to be taught by us before he
can do anything worth mentioning?

The old Gods who professed to teach were much more rational in theory, if only as a refuge from the
hypothesis of survival after death. If, then, we have a divine mind applying
itself to the problems of humanity, and capable of suggesting ideas
to the mind of man-- appealing, as a "still small voice" (p. 18), to
his intelligence, his emotions and his will-- one cannot but figure
its power for good as almost illimitable.

What is to prevent it from achieving a very rapid elimination of the ape and the
tiger, the Junker and the Tory, and substituting social enthusiasms
for individual passions as the motive-power of human conduct? We may
admit that the brain of man must first be developed up to a certain
point before divine suggestion could effectively work upon it.

But we know that men and races of magnificent brainpower must have existed on the planet thousands and
thousands of years ago. What, then, has the Invisible King made of his opportunities? Frankly,
he has made a terrible hash of them. It is hard to see how the progress of the race could possibly
have been slower, more laborious, more painful than in fact it has
been. No doubt there have been a few splendid spurts, which we may,
if we please, trace to the genial goading of the Invisible King.
But all the great movements have dribbled away into frustration and
impotence. There was, for example, the glorious intellectual efflorescence
of Greece. There, you may say, the Invisible King was almost visibly
at work.

But, after all, what a flash-in-the-pan it was! Hellas was a little island of light surrounded
by gloomy immensities of barbarism; yet, instead of stablishing and
fortifying a political cosmos, its leading men had nothing better
to do than to plunge into the bloody chaos of the Peloponnesian War,
and set back the clock of civilization by untold centuries.

What was the Invisible King about when that catastrophe happened?

Similarly, the past two centuries, and especially the past seventy-five years, have witnessed a
marvellous onrush in man's intellectual apprehension of the universe
and mastery over the latent energies of matter.

But because moral and political development has lagged hopelessly behind material progress, the world is
plunged into a war of unexampled proportion and almost unexampled
fury, wherein the heights of the air and depths of the sea are pressed
into the service of slaughter.

Where was the Invisible King in July, 1914? Or, for that matter, what has he been doing since July,
1870? "Either he was musing, or he was on a journey, or peradventure he slept." Truly it would seem that he
might have advised Mr. Wells to wait for the "Cease fire!" before
proclaiming his godhead.

Of course Mr. Wells will remind me that he claims for him no material potency; and I must own that no happier
moment could have been chosen for the annunciation of an impotent
God.

But the plea does not quite tally with the facts. In the first place (as
we have seen) the Invisible King is going to do things-- he is going
to do very remarkable things as soon as he knows how. And in the
second place it is impossible to conceive that the tremendous psychical
influence which is claimed for this God can be exercised without producing
external reactions.

Why, he is actually stated to be-- like another God, his near relative, whom he rather unkindly disowns--
he is stated to be "the light of the world"

(p. 18). Is there any meaning in such a statement if it be not pertinent
to ask what sort of light has led the world into the ghastly quagmire
in which it is to-day agonizing?

The truth is that Mr. Wells attributes to his God powers which, even if he had no greater knowledge
than Mr. Wells himself possesses, could be used to epoch-making advantage.

Fancy an omnipresent H. G. Wells, able to speak in a still small voice
to all men of good-will throughout the world! What a marvellous revolution might
he not effect! Mr. Wells himself has outlined such a revolution in
one of his most thoughtful romances, In the Days of the Comet. From
the fact that it does not occur, may we not fairly suspect that the
Whole contention is so baffling that reason staggers and flounders
as in a quicksand.

It rests upon a mixture of categories, as palpable and yet as elusive
as anything in The Hunting of the Snark. If you tell me that Public
Opinion is a God, I am quite willing to consider whether the metaphor
is a luminous and helpful one. But if you protest that it is no metaphor
at all, but a literal statement of fact, like the statement that Mr. Woodrow
Wilson is President of the United States, I no longer know where
we are.

Mr. Wells's view of the matter when he wrote ironically:-- It's a simple thing that I demand, Though
humble as can be-- A statement fair in my Maker's hand To a gentleman like me-- A clean account, writ
fair and broad, And a plain apologee-- Or deevil a ceevil word to God
From a gentleman like me. But why this irony?

What an infinity of trouble and pain would have been saved if such
a "clean account, writ fair and broad," had been vouchsafed, and
had been found to tally with the facts! Nor have the reputedly wise
and good of this world seen any presumption in desiring such a communiqué.

Most of them thought they had received it, and many wasted half their lives in attempting to reconcile new
knowledge with old ignorance, promulgated under the guarantee of God. I cannot but think that the poet
got nigher the heart of the matter who wrote:-- Was Moses upon Sinai
taught How Sinai's mighty ribs were wrought?

Did Buddha,'neath the bo-tree's shadow, Learn how the stars were poised and swayed? Did Jesus still pain's
raging storm, And dower the world with chloroform? Or Mahomet a jehad
decree'Gainst microbe-harboring gnat and flea? Has revelation e'er revealed
Aught from its age and hour concealed?

Or miracle, since time began, Conferred a single boon on Man? Truly,
we may agree with Mr. Wells that the Invisible King was probably
not in the secrets of the Veiled Being, else they might conceivably
do so; and indeed the text positively asserts that God knows something
more of the Veiled Being than we do, though perhaps not "much." In
view of this passage, and many others of a like nature, we cannot
fall back on the theory that Mr. Wells is merely trying, by dint
of highly imaginative writing, to infuse life into a deliberate personification,
like Robespierre's Goddess of Reason or Matthew Arnold's Zeitgeist.

However difficult it may be, we must accustom ourselves to the belief
that his assertions of the personal existence of his God represent the
efficient element in his thought, and that if other passages seem
inconsistent with that idea-- seem to point to mere abstraction or
allegorization of the mind of the race-- it is these passages, and
not the more full-blooded pronouncements, that must be cancelled as
misleading or inadequate.

There can be no doubt that the God to whom Mr. Wells seeks to convert us is
(in his apostle's conception) much more of a President Wilson than of a
Zeitgeist.***** It would be possible, of course, for a God, however dubious
and even inconceivable the method of his "synthesis," to manifest
himself in his effects-- to prove his existence by his actions.

But this, as we have seen, the Invisible King scorns to do. His adherents,
we are told, "advance no proof whatever of the existence of God but
their realization of him"

(p. 98). There is a sort of implication that the Deity will not descend
to vulgar miracle-working. "An evil and adulterous generation seeketh
after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it"-- not even
"the sign of Jonah the prophet."

But to ask for some sort of visible or plausibly conjecturable effect
is not at all the same thing as to ask for miracles. Mr. Wells proclaims
with all his might that the Invisible King works the most marvellous
and beneficent changes in the minds of his devotees; why, then, do
these changes produce no recognizable effect on the course of events?

The God who can work upon the human mind has the key to the situation
in his hands-- why, then, does he make such scant use of it? Is God only
a luxury for the intellectually wealthy?

The champagne of the spiritual life? A stimulant and anodyne highly
appreciated in the best circles, but inaccessible to the man of small
spiritual means, whether he be a dweller in palaces or in the slums?

To say that a given Power can and does potently affect the human
mind, and yet cannot, or at least does not, produce any appreciable or
demonstrable effect on the external aspects of human life, is like
asking us to believe that a man is a heaven-born conductor who can
get nothing out of his orchestra but discords and cacophonies.

Mr. Wells may perhaps reply that his God does recognizably influence
the course of events-- there, that everything in history which we
see to be good and desirable is the work of the Invisible King-- but
that he does not advance this fact as a proof of God's existence,
because it is discernible only to the eye of faith and cannot be brought
home to unregenerate reason.

I do not imagine that he will take this line, for it would come dangerously
near to identifying God with Providence-- a heresy which he abhors.

But supposing some other adept in "modern religion" were to make
this claim on behalf of the Invisible King, would it go any way towards
persuading us that we owe him our allegiance?

The assumption would be, as I understand it, that of a finite God, unable to modify the operations of matter,
but with an unlimited, or at any rate a very great, power of influencing
the workings of the human mind.

He would have no control over meteorological conditions: he could
not "ride in the whirlwind and direct the storm"; he could not subdue
the earthquake or prevent the Greenland glacier from "calving" growler
into the Atlantic.

He could not release the human body from the rhythms of growth and
decay; he could not eradicate that root of all evil, the association
of consciousness with a mechanism requiring to be constantly stoked
with a particular sort of fuel which exists only in limited quantities.

If God could arrange for life to be maintained on a diet of inorganic substances-- if he could enable animals,
like plants, to go direct to minerals and gases for their sustenance, instead
of having it, so to speak, half-digested in the vegetable kingdom--
or even if, under the present system, he could make fecundity, in
any given species, automatically proportionate to the supply of food--
he would at one stroke refashion earthly life in an extremely desirable
sense.

But this we assume to be beyond his competence: the Veiled Being has autocratically imposed the struggle for existence
as an inexorable condition of the Invisible King's activities, except in so far as it can be eluded
by and through the human intelligence. His problem, then, will be to guide the
minds of men towards a realization that their higher destiny lies
in using their intelligence to substitute ordered co-operation for
the sanguinary competition above which merely instinctive organism
are incapable of rising.

Observe that in exercising this power of psychical influence there
would be no sort of miracle-working, no interference with the order
of nature.

The influence of mind upon mind, even without the intervention of words
or other symbols, is a part of the order of nature which no one to-day dreams
of questioning.

Hypnotic suggestion is a department of orthodox medical practice,
and telepathy is more and more widely admitted, if only their teaching
had not been all wrong. Man has built up his knowledge of the universe
he lives in by slow, laborious degrees, not helped, but constantly
and cruelly hindered, by his Gods.

Yet Mr. Wells will surely not deny that an approximately true conception
of the process of nature, and of his own origin and history, was an
indispensable basis for all right and lasting social construction.

What colossal harm!
"Mr. Wells, moreover, speaks slightingly of revelation (pp. 19, 163) in a tone that seems to imply that"
modern religion "would have nothing to do with it even if it could. But the demand for a revelation is eminently
reasonable and justified; and the only trouble about the historic
revelations is that they have all been so shockingly ill-informed,
and have revealed nothing to the purpose.

Robert Louis Stevenson anticipated Mr. Wells's" undying human memory
and increasing human will "cannot exactly be identified with Public Opinion,
but it belongs to the same order of ideas.

Here there is an actual workable analogy.

But there is no practicable analogy between a purely mental concept
and a physical construction. You will not help me to believe in (say)
the doctrine of Original Sin, by assuring me that it is built, like
the Tower Bridge, on the cantilever principle.

It is quite certain that, if passionate conviction and the free use of anthropomorphic
language who can make a figure of speech a God, the Invisible King
is an individual entity, as detached from Mr. Wells as Michelangelo's
Moses from Michelangelo.

Paradoxically enough, he has put on" individuation "that his worshippers
may escape from it. Mr. Wells's book teems with expressions-- I have
given many examples of them-- which are wholly inapplicable to any
metaphor, however galvanized into a semblance of life by ecstatic
contemplation in the devotional mind.

For example, when we turns on" might have beens.

"That the element of good in the message of Jesus has been to some
extent efficient, no one would deny. But the alloy of potential evil
has made itself so overpoweringly actual that to strike a balance
between the two forces is impossible, and the question is generally
decided by throwing a solid agglomeration of prejudice into one scale
or the other.

There has never been a time when a really well-informed revelation,
uttered with charm and power, might not have revolutionized the world."
A well-informed revelation!

"the reader may cry:" What terrible bathos has been wrought, for instance, by the fairy-tale of the Fall,
and all its theological consequences!

Yet, age after age, the Invisible King did nothing to shake its calamitous prestige. Of late it is true that the progress
of knowledge has seemed no longer slow, but amazingly rapid; but that
is because the amount of energy devoted to it has been multiplied a hundredfold.
Each new step is still a very short one: it is generally found that
several investigators have independently arrived at the verge of a
new discovery, and it is often a matter of chance which of them first
crosses the line and is lucky enough to associate his name with the
completed achievement.


Some of the men made her out far away and also two more tugs.  But the gale has come on again,
and everybody knows that no tug will ever dare come near the ship.

"That's the end, Captain Harry says, very low. . . . Cloete thinks he never felt so cold in
all his life. . . And I feel as if I didn't care to live on just now, mutters Captain Harry
. . . Your wife's ashore, looking on, says Cloete . . . Yes.  Yes.  It must be awful for her
to look at the poor old ship lying here done for. Why, that's our home.

"Cloete thinks that as long as the Sagamore's done for he doesn't care, and only wishes himself
somewhere else.  The slightest movement of the ship cuts his breath like a blow.  And he feels
excited by the danger, too.  The captain takes him aside. . . The life-boat can't come near
us for more than an hour.  Look here, Cloete, since you are here, and such a plucky one--do
something for me. . . He tells him then that down in his cabin aft in a certain drawer there
is a bundle of important papers and some sixty sovereigns in a small canvas bag.  Asks Cloete
to go and get these things out.  He hasn't been below since the ship struck, and it seems to
him that if he were to take his eyes off her she would fall to pieces.  And then the men--a
scared lot by this time--if he were to leave them by themselves they would attempt to launch
one of the ship's boats in a panic at some heavier thump--and then some of them bound to get
drowned. . . There are two or three boxes of matches about my shelves in my cabin if you want
a light, says Captain Harry.  Only wipe your wet hands before you begin to feel for them. . .

"Cloete doesn't like the job, but doesn't like to show funk, either--and he goes.  Lots of
water on the main-deck, and he splashes along; it was getting dark, too.  All at once, by the
mainmast, somebody catches him by the arm.  Stafford.  He wasn't thinking of Stafford at all.
Captain Harry had said something as to the mate not being quite satisfactory, but it wasn't
much. Cloete doesn't recognise him in his oilskins at first.  He sees a white face with big
eyes peering at him. . . Are you pleased, Mr. Cloete . . . ?

"Cloete is moved to laugh at the whine, and shakes him off.  But the fellow scrambles on after
him on the poop and follows him down into the cabin of that wrecked ship.  And there they are,
the two of them; can hardly see each other. . . You don't mean to make me believe you have
had anything to do with this, says Cloete. . .

"They both shiver, nearly out of their wits with the excitement of being on board that ship.
She thumps and lurches, and they stagger together, feeling sick.  Cloete again bursts out laughing
at that wretched creature Stafford pretending to have been up to something so desperate. .
. Is that how you think you can treat me now? yells the other man all of a sudden. . .

"A sea strikes the stern, the ship trembles and groans all round them, there's the noise of
the seas about and overhead, confusing Cloete, and he hears the other screaming as if crazy.
. . Ah, you don't believe me!  Go and look at the port chain.  Parted?  Eh?  Go and see if
it's parted.  Go and find the broken link.  You can't. There's no broken link.  That means
a thousand pounds for me.  No less.  A thousand the day after we get ashore--prompt.  I won't
wait till she breaks up, Mr. Cloete.  To the underwriters I go if I've to walk to London on
my bare feet.  Port cable!  Look at her port cable, I will say to them.  I doctored it--for
the owners-- tempted by a low rascal called Cloete.

"Cloete does not understand what it means exactly.  All he sees is that the fellow means to
make mischief.  He sees trouble ahead. . . Do you think you can scare me? he asks,--you poor
miserable skunk. . . And Stafford faces him out--both holding on to the cabin table: No, damn
you, you are only a dirty vagabond; but I can scare the other, the chap in the black coat. . .

"Meaning George Dunbar.  Cloete's brain reels at the thought. "many a time one could barely find a place
to step in his office for the pictures and books.

I pledge you their support in the work which you have come to Opportunity to make blessed and beautiful
their lives, given pastime by our great teacher; and they would have felt had he gone by sudden
accident." in the furtherance of Dr. Washington's work, the graduates
stand ready to say: "'i'll go where you know he could maneuver on
over an insult and never see it." then he had a way of kicking organizations
to pieces for a few minutes.

If
some rural school had a creditable exhibit he would order that the senior
class, whoever that person may be. "you want me to go, dear Lord, O'er
the mountain, or plain, or sea; i'll say what you want me to say, dear
Lord; i'll be what you want me to be.'" in the Survey article, after
briefly describing the ups and downs of Mr. Washington's long fight
against a breaking constitution, Mr. Richardson says: "with such perpetual
rallying power who could cope? and so, Mr. Chairman, in the name of
the Alumni Association and in the spirit of him whose body lies buried
just beyond those walls, i pledge you and the Trustees the loyalty
of the Tuskegee graduates to whatever work they are called in connection
with the realization of Dr. Washington's great purpose.

By this time to-morrow night another prophet will have been raised up to serve in the room of the great
founder of a school. In all things he received, but to share. Loyally from
all his heaps of correspondence, from business engagements, from matters
of national importance, he would turn away and go through these himself,
culling them out. The real Dr. Washington is buried in the graduates
who sat at his feet and imbibed his spirit, but he lives in them." King
David, pondering over God's mercies and goodness to him, thinking of how
he had been taken from minding sheep and placed upon the throne of
Israel; and how God had guided and protected him and made his name
great in the earth, exclaimed reverently, one day,'what shall i render
unto the Lord for all his benefits unto me?'and he answered his question,
in part, by saying:'i will pay my vows unto the Lord now in the presence
of all the people.'"if all our graduates could speak to-night, they
would have me pay their vows of gratitude for the tuskegee to perform;
because we are learning self-government and wish to help prove to
the world that we can pass the succession to the Principalship that
without revolution.

He would have the boxes opened and books and pictures brought in to
his office.

A latent feeling crept among many that he was immune to pain as he had been to insult and abuse. He
would sort a pile here for the family; one there for another, according
to what he considered would suit each. A tireless worker himself, aha he
imposed heavy tasks upon others.

Now
he would send around a basket of Trustees to know that when the proclamation
is made that'the King is dead!'his Alumni Association will be ready
to reply:'long live this King!'and we will faithfully, honestly, and
away support the person-hour later in the morning.

How Tuskegee took Dr. Washington's death can probably best be appreciated
by an account of what his life meant among his teachers. There he was
a stern and exacting task master.

In the home, however, he had a genius for cheering by little kindnesses and by a word. Some of us
shook our heads and said,'why he is good for ten years yet.'seeing
that he thus defied nerves and baffled pain, we hoped.

It was in the hour of hope here the last stroke came, and we felt that pulling at the last throat which
we should have me give public assurance of their fealty to the work
for which Mr. Washington gave his life." i want you, Sir, and the
Board of vegetables from his garden, now a cut of one of his pigs
which he had killed and in which he took great delight.

People who sent books and pictures to Tuskegee can hardly realize what a pleasure they were shipping: the
pleasure they gave him and others through him. Now he would declare a half holiday; now
he would allow the students to sleep this half you elect to succeed our
great father, 150 strong, should be taken again, whether it was one
mile or ten miles then.

He would order the class out to see how some poor, illiterate farmer had raised a bumper crop of
peas, corn, sugar cane, and peanuts, how he surrounded himself with conveniences, both inside and
outside the home.
  There's a lull in the wind, and Stafford's voice seems to be speaking
very fast to the coxswain; he tells him that of course he was near his skipper, was all the
time near him, till the old man said at the last moment that he must go and get the ship's
papers from aft; would insist on going himself; told him, Stafford, to get into the life-boat.
. . He had meant to wait for his skipper, only there came this smooth of the seas, and he thought
he would take his chance at once.

"Cloete opens his eyes.  Yes.  There's Stafford sitting close by him in that crowded life-boat.
The coxswain stoops over Cloete and cries:  Did you hear what the mate said, sir? . . . Cloete's
face feels as if it were set in plaster, lips and all.  Yes, I did, he forces himself to answer.
The coxswain waits a moment, then says: I don't like it. . . And he turns to the mate, telling
him it was a pity he did not try to run along the deck and hurry up the captain when the lull
came.  Stafford answers at once that he did think of it, only he was afraid of missing him
on the deck in the dark. For, says he, the captain might have got over at once, thinking I
was already in the life-boat, and you would have hauled off perhaps, leaving me behind. . .
True enough, says the coxswain.  A minute or so passes.  This won't do, mutters the coxswain.
Suddenly Stafford speaks up in a sort of hollow voice:  I was by when he told Mr. Cloete here
that he didn't know how he would ever have the courage to leave the old ship; didn't he, now?
. . . And Cloete feels his arm being gripped quietly in the dark. . . Didn't he now?  We were
standing together just before you went over, Mr. Cloete? . . .

"Just then the coxswain cries out:  I'm going on board to see. . . Cloete tears his arm away:
I am going with you. . . 

Old Missie give me the cloth and dye for my weddin'dress and my mother spun and dyed the cloth, and
i made it. "i never worked in the field,'cept to chase the calves in, till i was most growed." i was
married durin'the action and it was at church, with a white preacher.

Massa done say he'd let the niggers go without fightin'. "i was borned and raised on William Jackson's
place, jus'twelve miles east of Gilmer. Me and my narrow'come to Marshall the year after surrender, and
i is lived here every since. Massa done all the bossin'his own self." the Kluxers come gallopin'down
that road and when the hosses hit that grapevine, it throwed them every which way and broke some
their arms.

He didn't think war was right, but he had to go. Missie cried. Me and my husban'stays'bout
a year, but my folks stays till she marries'gain. Massa was good
to us. Old Missie freed us but said we had a home as long as she did.

I was growed and had one bairn at surrender, and my mother told me i was a woman of my own when
old Missie sot us free, jus'after resignation, so you can figurate
my age from that.

Him and some niggers was out one night and the Kluxers chases them on hosses. "my brother-in-law,
Sam Pitman, tells us how he put one by the Ku Kluxers." Course, i now went to school, but old Missie sent
my brother, Alex, two years after the war, with her own chillen.

Sam used to laugh and tell how them Kluxers cussed them niggers. "it was
homespun but nothin'cheap'bout it for them days.

One of them says,'Jackson, we ain't gwine take you with us never, but we'll fix you so you
can't run off till we git back.'they put red pepper in his eyes and left. He'serts and comes home
befo'the war gits goin'good and the soldiers come after him. I seed the soldiers comin'and
gwine to the war, and'members when Massa William left to go fight for the
South. Then they rode away and we never seed massa'gain. After the weddin'massa
give us a big dinner and we had a time. He run off to the bottoms,
but they was on hosses and overtook him.

Every sat'day night we had a candy pullin'and played games, and allus had plenty of clothes and shoes.
One day my brother, Alex, hollers out,'oh, Missie, yonder is the hoss, at the gate, and ain't nobody ridin'him.'Missie throwed
up her hands and says,'o, Lawdy, my husban'am dead!'she knowed somehow
when he left he wasn't comin'back." he never whipped me, but old
Missie had to switch me a little for piddlin'round,'stead of doin'what
she said.

They come back for him in a day or two and made my father saddle up Hawk-eye, massa's best hoss. I was
there in the room when they brung him back.

They scat down a husban road and tied four ply of grapevine'cross the road,'bout breast high to a hoss.
Massa William raised lots of cotton and corn and tobacco and most everything
we et. My first child was borned the January befo'surrender in June,
and i'members hoeing in the field befo'the war come on. His boy, Billie,
was sixteen, and tended the place while massa's away.
 Here!  The owner's
agent wants you. . . Cloete tucks the fellow's arm under his own and walks away with him to
the left, where the fishing-harbour is. . . I suppose I haven't misunderstood you.  You wish
me to look after you a bit, says he.  The other hangs on him rather limp, but gives a nasty
little laugh:  You had better, he mumbles; but mind, no tricks; no tricks, Mr. Cloete; we are
on land now.

"There's a police office within fifty yards from here, says Cloete. He turns into a little
public house, pushes Stafford along the passage.  The landlord runs out of the bar. . . This
is the mate of the ship on the rocks, Cloete explains; I wish you would take care of him a
bit to-night. . . What's the matter with him? asks the man.  Stafford leans against the wall
in the passage, looking ghastly.  And Cloete says it's nothing--done up, of course. . . I will
be responsible for the expense; I am the owner's agent.  I'll be round in an hour or two to
see him.

And Cloete gets back to the hotel.  The news had travelled there already, and the first thing
he sees is George outside the door as white as a sheet waiting for him.  Cloete just gives
him a nod and they go in.  Mrs. Harry stands at the head of the stairs, and, when she sees
only these two coming up, flings her arms above her head and runs into her room.  Nobody had
dared tell her, but not seeing her husband was enough.  Cloete hears an awful shriek. . . Go
to her, he says to George.

"While he's alone in the private parlour Cloete drinks a glass of brandy and thinks it all
out.  Then George comes in. . . The landlady's with her, he says.  And he begins to walk up
and down the room, flinging his arms about and talking, disconnected like, his face set hard
as Cloete has never seen it before. . . What must be, must be.  Dead--only brother.  Well,
dead--his troubles over. But we are living, he says to Cloete; and I suppose, says he, glaring
at him with hot, dry eyes, that you won't forget to wire in the morning to your friend that
we are coming in for certain. . .

"Meaning the patent-medicine fellow. . . Death is death and business is business, George goes
on; and look--my hands are clean, he says, showing them to Cloete.  Cloete thinks:  He's going
crazy. He catches hold of him by the shoulders and begins to shake him: Damn you--if you had
had the sense to know what to say to your brother, if you had had the spunk to speak to him
at all, you moral creature you, he would be alive now, he shouts.

"At this George stares, then bursts out weeping with a great bellow.  He throws himself on
the couch, buries his face in a cushion, and howls like a kid. . . That's better, thinks Cloete,
and he leaves him, telling the landlord that he must go out, as he has some little business
to attend to that night.  The landlord's wife, weeping herself, catches him on the stairs:
Oh, sir, that poor lady will go out of her mind. . .

"Cloete shakes her off, thinking to himself:  Oh no!  She won't. She will get over it.  Nobody
will go mad about this affair unless I do.  It isn't sorrow that makes people go mad, but worry.

"There Cloete was wrong.  What affected Mrs. Harry was that her husband should take his own
life, with her, as it were, looking on. She brooded over it so that in less than a year they
had to put her into a Home.  She was very, very quiet; just gentle melancholy. She lived for
quite a long time.

"Well, Cloete splashes along in the wind and rain.  Nobody in the streets--all the excitement
over.  The publican runs out to meet him in the passage and says to him:  Not this way.  He
isn't in his room.  We couldn't get him to go to bed nohow.  He's in the little parlour there.
We've lighted him a fire. . . You have been giving him drinks too, says Cloete; I never said
I would be responsible for drinks.  How many? . . . Two, says the other.  It's all right. I
don't mind doing that much for a shipwrecked sailor. . . Cloete smiles his funny smile:  Eh?
Come.  He paid for them. . . The publican just blinks. . . Gave you gold, didn't he?  Speak
up! . . . What of that! cries the man.  What are you after, anyway?  He had the right change
for his sovereign.

"Just so, says Cloete.  He walks into the parlour, and there he sees our Stafford; hair all
up on end, landlord's shirt and pants on, bare feet in slippers, sitting by the fire.  When
he sees Cloete he casts his eyes down.

"You didn't mean us ever to meet again, Mr. Cloete, Stafford says, demurely. . . That fellow,
when he had the drink he wanted--he wasn't a drunkard--would put on this sort of sly, modest
air. . . But since the captain committed suicide, he says, I have been sitting here thinking
it out.  All sorts of things happen. Conspiracy to lose the ship--attempted murder--and this
suicide. For if it was not suicide, Mr. Cloete, then I know of a victim of the most cruel,
cold-blooded attempt at murder; somebody who has suffered a thousand deaths.  And that makes
the thousand pounds of which we spoke once a quite insignificant sum.  Look how very convenient
this suicide is. . .

"He looks up at Cloete then, who smiles at him and comes quite close to the table.

"You killed Harry Dunbar, he whispers. . . The fellow glares at him and shows his teeth:  Of
course I did!  I had been in that cabin for an hour and a half like a rat in a trap. . . Shut
up and left to drown in that wreck.  Let flesh and blood judge.  Of course I shot him!  I thought
it was you, you murdering scoundrel, come back to settle me.  He opens the door flying and
tumbles right down upon me; I had a revolver in my hand, and I shot him.  I was crazy.  Men
have gone crazy for less.

"Cloete looks at him without flinching.  Aha!  That's your story, is it? . . . And he shakes
the table a little in his passion as he speaks. . . Now listen to mine.  What's this conspiracy?
Who's going to prove it?  You were there to rob.  You were rifling his cabin; he came upon
you unawares with your hands in the drawer; and you shot him with his own revolver.  You killed
to steal--to steal! His brother and the clerks in the office know that he took sixty pounds
with him to sea.  Sixty pounds in gold in a canvas bag.  He told me where they were.  The coxswain
of the life-boat can swear to it that the drawers were all empty.  And you are such a fool
that before you're half an hour ashore you change a sovereign to pay for a drink.  Listen to
me. Take care that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly and cause the pie to fall when taken
out. PASTRY. Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one salt spoon salt,
enough water to make a very soft paste. Mock CHERRY PIE. MRS. W.
W. HENRY.

One cup cranberries cut up, one half cup of raisins chopped, one half cup of cold water, one
teaspoonful vanilla, one tablespoonful corn-starch, two-thirds cup
sugar, a little salt.

This makes one pie. MINCE MEAT. MRS. HENRY THOMSON. One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue,
one pound apples, one pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants,
two nutmegs, a large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt,
one half pound of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT. Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs
(hard boiled), one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine,
two tablespoons of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into moderately small pieces, mash the yolks of the
eggs with a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream. Place the
butter in a granite ware saucepan, add the flour, let it cook slowly
for one minute and then pour in the balance of the cream and stir
until the liquid thickens.

Add the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of
the eggs sliced, season with cayenne pepper, and salt, add the wine
and serve at once.

LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

MRS.
HARRY LAURIE. Stir together in a dish, pour on boiling water to
make a thick custard; stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs,
bring to a boil.

Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over them.
Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three eggs
well beaten with sugar.

Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and
return to the oven for a few minutes.

The CHAFING DISH.

A Relish and a Savory. Welsh RAREBIT. MISS GRACE M'MILLAN. Allow for each
person one egg, one tablespoonful of grated cheese, one half teaspoonful
of butter, one saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne.

Cook like custard until smooth. Spread on toast and serve at once.

Welsh RAREBIT. MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best american cheese, (Canadian will do), the
milder the better, as melting brings out strength.

To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan; add
ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a
wine glassful to each rarebit.

Place
over the fire, stir until it is melted. Have ready a slice of toast
for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put a slice on each plate, and
pour cheese enough over each piece to cover it.

Serve at once. Golden BUCK a "golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put carefully on
top of rarebit. LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG.

Everyone should try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream could be enveloped in the
crust while it is an exceedingly good dish for a dinner course or for
lunch or tea. When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled in the egg and bread
crumbs.

The moment the egg touches the hot lard it hardens and secures the
pudding which softens to a creamy substance very delicious.

Ingredients, one pint of milk, five ounces of sugar (little more
than half a cupful,) butter the size of a hickory nut, yolks of three
eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and one tablespoonful of
flour, (a generous half cupful altogether), stick of cinnamon one
inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the
fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take
it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a platter
until one third of an inch high.

When cold and stiff cut the pudding into parallelograms, about three
inches long and two inches wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted
cracker crumbs then in eggs (slightly beaten and sweetened) then again
in cracker-crumbs.

Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire basket should be used if convenient)
and when of fine color, take them out and place them in the oven for
four or five minutes to better soften the pudding. Sprinkle over pulverized
sugar and serve immediately.

FEATHER PUDDING. MRS. W. R. DEAN. One tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little
salt, one cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups
of flour, one and one half teaspoons flavoring.

Steam one hour.

Eat with sauce.

FIG PUDDING. MRS. Thom. When nearly cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water
and lastly the cocoanut.

Bake
three quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with
white sugar sifted over it.

Dutch APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE.

MRS. STOCKING. Fried CREAM. MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH. Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel
and scoop out the seeds from the stem end.

Place the tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill
with celery that has been chopped fine and mixed with mayonnaise.

Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or plate.

To be eaten cold.

BREAD PUDDING. MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE. Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer of bread, one layer
of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter.

Continue until bowl is full, put a plate on top and steam for at least
two hours, more will do no harm. Turn out a few minutes before wanted
to let the juice penetrate the bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE PUDDING. MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing
together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of butter, add two eggs,
and after beating the mixture until light, add a cupful of milk; mix
well in a sieve a pint of sifted flour and three teaspoons of baking
powder, rub through the sieve into the mixture already made, beat
quickly and pour the batter into one large pudding dish or two small
ones.

Sprinkle with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes or
thirty if there be two.

Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley
on top of each tomato. Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers. Be
generous with the filling. Use plenty of the mayonnaise and celery
and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING. MRS. R. STUART. Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant)
one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted). Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly.
Set in kettle of boiling water and stir till it thickens, (about
four minutes), when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream.

SALAD SANDWICHES.

MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes,
one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one
tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt. Shred all the salad finely. Mix
well with the dressing and put a little on half the bread and butter.

Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.

SALAD
DRESSING without OIL.

MRS. GILMOUR.

The yolks of two egg boiled half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard,
one dessert spoon of sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING for TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT. Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoon of salt,
two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar and cayenne, and four
eggs. PUMPKIN PIE. "the proof of the pudding lies in the eating."
ALMOND PUDDING MRS. STOCKING. One pint of milk, two eggs, two heaping
tablespoons of maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon of cornstarch,
flavor with almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch in double boiler,
adding yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding dish, cover with
whites of the eggs, and brown in oven, to be served cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter on top: one egg, one tablespoon
each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder,
bake forty five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING.

MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold water, one cup of
white sugar and one third of a cup of butter.

Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy paste. After
poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely chopped
parsley over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley. ANCHOVY EGGS. MADAME J. T. Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the
first two minutes.

Let boil for one hour; cut off two, remove the yolks and leave the
whites in cold water not to discolor.

Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small
pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne, one half teaspoon lemon juice
and the yolks of the eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs.

Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies. Stuffed EGGS. MRS. W. CLINT. Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch
and yolk of one egg in half cup milk stir in the mixture letting it boil until thick. Beat whites
of two eggs into stiff froth for frosting. LEMON PIE. MRS. STRANG.
Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, eight
tablespoonfuls white sugar; squeeze the juice of the lemons and grate
the rind of one, stir together the yolks of three eggs and white of
one with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then one (coffee) cup
of sweet cream or milk, beat all for a minute or two; have ready a
plate lined with paste, into which pour the mixture which will be
sufficient for two pies of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done.

Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth and stir in
four spoonfuls of white sugar.

Take the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each
and return them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley. METHOD: Scald the milk
and melt the butter with it, pour this on the eggs well beaten, add the
salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly, and stir all the while.

Cook a little longer if set in a basin of hot water, take from the
fire, and add juice of lemon.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse
radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top.

Serve in small tumblers on a plate with pounded ice around them and with oyster
biscuits. Crustine. MRS. A. COOK. Boil the liver of two chickens,
(or turkey will do), pound them to a paste with a piece of butter
the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy and a little cayenne.

Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies whole, laid on top are an improvement.
PIES. "Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."-- longfellow.
COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. MR. JOSEPH FLEIG.

(Baker, grenoble Hotel, N. Y.) Place on a deep pie plate a thin layer
of cornstarch, beat all together, then add one cup of boiling water,
cook five minutes, boiling all the time.

Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when
cold add the mustard.-- prepared mustard is made as follows: two tablespoons
mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon salt, enough boiling
water to mix.

Half a quantity is enough for ordinary use. The above recipe is also
good for chicken.

Put the
eggs in boiling water.

Preserving EGGS.

Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream. CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS. W. W. WELCH. Two
tablespoons of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth, add one cup of cream, let it
heat through, then add one can of lobster. Pepper and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine,
if desired; serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned chicken or salmon can be done the same way. Curée EGGS. Miss
MITCHELL. Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half;
have drawn butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder.

Place your eggs on a side dish, pour your curée round and finish with
parsley: makes a pretty lunch dish. Poached EGGS. One pint of milk,
one pound of brown sugar, one coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two
heaping tablespoons of cornstarch, pinch of salt.

Put the
milk in a double boiler, when boiling put in cornstarch dissolved
in a little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in the sugar
which has been previously burnt a little, then add the nuts, stir
this few minutes, flavor with vanilla, put into a mould, and eat with
whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS LAMPSON. Two cups of stale sponge cake crumbs, two cups of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks
of two eggs and whites of four, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful of rose water, a little
nutmeg. Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

(which
keeps them from June to June.) half a gallon of fresh lime to five
gallons of water added by degrees, two and one half gallons the first
day, the rest next, then add one half gallon coarse salt, stir two
or three times a day for three days, after this drop in four eggs
gently.

To test the strength of the lime-water drop in an egg that you know
to be fresh, and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another
gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well beaten,
add gradually one cup sugar.

With the eggs and sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping
tablespoons grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into
the milk until a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve
with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER.

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea cup of sugar,
three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one half teaspoonful
essence of vanilla.

One cup
sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of pie plant,
bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon sugar
over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE.

One
cup chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four tablespoons
vinegar, one tablespoon cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one
cup sugar, pinch of salt, mix together, bake with two crusts.

Sour CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup sugar,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar,
and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two
crusts.

PUDDINGS.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons
minced ham. Boil the eggs for ten minutes; take in the shells, cut
lengthwise, take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter
melted, the minced ham and the parsley. Put the mixture into the whites
of the eggs. Put the two halves together.

Serve on shallow dish with the following white sauce: one tablespoon
each of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon pepper.

Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper
and salt.

Baked OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE. One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four
eggs, add hot milk, and a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls
flour in a little cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt
and pepper to taste. Bake twenty minutes. CHEESE OMELET. MRS. HENRY
THOMSON.

Three eggs, well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt,
three tablespoons of fresh cream.

OMELET. MISS M'gee.

Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one
teaspoonful flour, parsley, pepper and salt. Beat the whites and yolks
separately, add the milk, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley and the
flour dissolved in a little milk, then add the whites, put in the
frying pan, leave on top of the stove for three minutes and put in
the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE. MISS MAUD THOMSON. The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons
of milk, a pinch of salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff
as possible, add to the above, turn into a frying pan, until the
mixture sets and then put in the oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES.

CHEESE STRAWS.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON. Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with one
cupful of flour, one half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper
and butter the size of an egg. Add enough cold water to enable you
to roll thin. Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a
quick oven. CHEESE SCALLOP. MISS FRASER. Serve hot with lemon sauce
or any sweet sauce. LEMON SAUCE.-- Beat two eggs very light, and
add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of melted butter, one small
tablespoon of pie crust, put a good rim on the side and put into this
one half cup of dried cocoanut; fill up with a custard made as follows:
three eggs, three ounces of sugar beaten together with flavoring of
lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little salt and add one pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch
thick. LEMON PIE FILLING. MRS. JAMES LAURIE. Mix together two cups of white
sugar, yolks of three eggs, juice of two lemons, grated rind of half
a lemon; put it on the stove to boil and add at once one tea-cup
boiling water, stir smooth, then add two tablespoons of corn starch,
mixed in a little cold water, and one tablespoon of butter, boil until
it almost.

LEMON PIE.
MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN. Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with
two-thirds of a cup of water for ten minutes, strain through fine
sieve, then add one cup sugar, the juice of a lemon and butter half
the size of an egg, let freeze a few minutes.

Let the milk come to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when custards
cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to the
bread and milk.

Bake one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat the whites of three eggs
and put meringues. CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS. RATTRAY.

Take one coffee cup full of brown sugar, put it in a frying pan over
a slow fire and burn it, then pour it into one and a half pints of
milk in a saucepan and place the latter on the fire to come to a boil,
but do not stir it in case the milk should crack.

Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with a little cold milk,
and when the milk and sugar boil stir the starch in.

MISS
BEEMER. PASTE. Soak one cup of dried bread police in fresh milk. Into
this beat the yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter, and half
a pound of grated cheese.

Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate brown.

One
cup suet, one half pound figs cut fine, two cups bread-crumbs, one
cup flour, one half cup brown sugar, one egg, one cup of milk, two
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam three hours.

Gelatine PUDDING (Pink.) MRS. W. R. DEAN. Put one ounce pink gelatine and
one quart of milk in a bowl on the stove where it will not get hot; when dissolved
add yolks of four eggs, beaten with four tablespoons sugar, stir
well, let it just come to the boil, then add the whites well beaten,
with four tablespoons of sugar and a dessert spoon vanilla.

Turn into a mould and let it cool, then turn out and garnish with
flog cream.

This
is a very pretty dish.

GRAHAM PUDDING.
  Byrne watched him step out on a narrow
path.  In a thick pea-jacket with a pair of pistols in his belt, a cutlass by his side, and
a stout cudgel in his hand, he looked a sturdy figure and well able to take care of himself.
He turned round for a moment to wave his hand, giving to Byrne one more view of his honest
bronzed face with bushy whiskers.  The lad in goatskin breeches looking, Byrne says, like a
faun or a young satyr leaping ahead, stopped to wait for him, and then went off at a bound.
Both disappeared.

Byrne turned back.  The hamlet was hidden in a fold of the ground, and the spot seemed the
most lonely corner of the earth and as if accursed in its uninhabited desolate barrenness.
Before he had walked many yards, there appeared very suddenly from behind a bush the muffled
up diminutive Spaniard.  Naturally Byrne stopped short.

The other made a mysterious gesture with a tiny hand peeping from under his cloak.  His hat
hung very much at the side of his head. "Senor," he said without any preliminaries.  "Caution!
It is a positive fact that one-eyed Bernardino, my brother-in-law, has at this moment a mule
in his stable.  And why he who is not clever has a mule there?  Because he is a rogue; a man
without conscience. Because I had to give up the macho to him to secure for myself a roof to
sleep under and a mouthful of olla to keep my soul in this insignificant body of mine.  Yet,
senor, it contains a heart many times bigger than the mean thing which beats in the breast
of that brute connection of mine of which I am ashamed, though I opposed that marriage with
all my power.  Well, the misguided woman suffered enough. Either she has shown herself, as a seeker after
notoriety, to be a most foolish or ill-judging person,-- or else, as
was said of Washington's being a villain, "the epithet is not felicitous."
THE ROB ROY THEORY "The Saturday Review," in an article which denounces
all equality in marriage laws and all plans of woman suffrage, admits
frankly the practical obstacles in the way of the process of voting.

"Possibly the presence of women as voters would tend still further to promote order than has been done
by the ballot." It plants itself wholly on one objection, which goes
far deeper, thus:-- "If men choose to say that women are not their
equals, women have nothing to do but to give in.

Physical force, the ultimate basis of all society and all government, must be on the side of
the men; and those who have the key of the position will not consent
permanently to abandon it." It is a great pleasure when an opponent
of justice is willing to fall back thus frankly upon the Rob Roy
theory:-- "The good old rule Sufficeth him, the simple plan That they
should take who have the power, And they should keep who can."

It is easy, I think, to show that the theory is utterly false, and
that the basis of civilized society is not physical force, but, on the
contrary, brains.

In the city where
the "Saturday Review" is published, there are three regiments of "Guards" which are the boast of the English
army, and are believed by their officers to be the finest troops in the world. They have deteriorated
in size since the Crimean war; but I believe that the men of one regiment
still average six feet two inches in height; and I am sure that nobody
ever saw them in line without noticing the contrast between these
magnificent men and the comparatively puny officers who command them.

These officers are from the highest social rank in England, the governing classes;
and if it were the whole object of this military organization to give
a visible proof of the utter absurdity of the "Saturday Review's" theory,
it could not be better done. There is no country in Europe, I suppose,
where the hereditary aristocracy is physically equal to that of England,
or where the intellectual class has so good a physique.

Very well: why, then, do not all the landless men in a town unite,
and take away the landed property of all the women?

But it is only in the very first stage of barbarism that mere physical strength
makes mastery; and the long head has controlled the long arm since
the beginning of recorded time. And it must be remembered that even these
statistics very imperfectly represent the case.

They do not apply to
the whole male sex, but actually to the picked portion only, to the men presumed to be of military
age, excluding the very old and the very young.

Were these included, the proportion unfit for military duty would
of course be far greater.

Moreover, it takes no account of courage or cowardice, patriotism or zeal. How much all these considerations
tell upon the actual proportion may be seen from the fact that in
the town where I am writing, for instance, out of some twelve thousand
inhabitants and about three thousand voters, there are only some three
hundred who actually served in the civil war,-- a number too small
to exert a perceptible influence on any local election.

Read Froissart's Chronicles, and Scott's novels of chivalry, and you
will see how thoroughly the difference between patrician and plebeian
was then a difference of physical strength.

From kings to nobles, from nobles to burghers, from burghers to yeomen;
in short, from strong to weak, from high to low, from rich to poor.

All
this is but the unconscious following out of one sure principle,-- that
legislation is mainly for the protection of the weak against the strong,
and that for this purpose the weak must be directly represented.
The strong are already protected by their strength: it is the weak who
need all the vantage-ground that votes and legislatures can give
them.

The feudal chiefs were stronger without laws than with them. "Take care
of yourselves in Sutherland," was the anxious message of the old
Highlander: "the law has come as far as Tain."

It was the peaceful citizen
who needed the guaranty of law against brute force. But can laws be
executed without brute force?

Not without a certain amount of it, but that amount under civilization
grows less and less. Just in proportion as the masses are enfranchised, statutes
execute themselves without crossing bayonets.

"In a republic," said De Tocqueville, "if laws are not always respectable,
they are always respected." If every step in freedom has brought about
a more peaceable state of society, why should that process stop at
this precise point?

Besides, there is no possibility in nature of a political division in which all the men shall be
on one side and all the women on the other. The mutual influence of the
sexes forbids it. The very persons who hint at such a fear refute
themselves at other times, by arguing that "women will always be sufficiently
represented by men," or that "every woman will vote as her husband thinks,
and it will merely double the numbers." As a matter of fact, the law will
prevail in all English-speaking nations: a few men fighting for it will be
stronger than many fighting against it; and if those few have both
the law and the women on their side, there will be no trouble.

The truth is that in this age cedant arma togae: it is the civilian who rules on the throne or
behind it, and who makes the fighting-men his mere agents. Yonder policeman
at the corner looks big and formidable: he protects the women and overawes
the boys. But away in some corner of the City Hill there is some
quiet man, out of uniform, perhaps a consumptive or a dyspeptic or a
cripple, who can overawe the burliest policeman by his authority
as city marshal or as mayor.

So an army is but a larger police; and its official head is that plain man at the White House,
who makes or unmakes, not merely brevet-brigadiers, but major-generals
in command,-- who can by the stroke of the pen convert the most powerful
man of the army into the most powerless.

Take away the occupant of the position, and put in a woman, and will she become impotent because
her name is Elizabeth or Maria Theresa?

It is brains that more and more govern the world; and whether those brains be on the throne, or at the
ballot-box, they will soon make the owner's sex a subordinate affair.

If woman is also strong in the affections, so much the better. "Win the hearts
of your subjects," said Lord Burleigh to Queen Elizabeth, "and you
will have their hands and purses." War is the last appeal, and happily
in these days the rarest appeal, of statesmanship.

In the multifarious other duties that make up statesmanship we cannot
spare the brains, the self-devotion, and the enthusiasm of woman.

One of the most important treaties of modern history, the peace of Cambray, in 1529, was negotiated,
after previous attempts had failed, by two women,-- Margaret, aunt of Charles V., and Louisa, mother of Francis
I. Voltaire said that Christina of Sweden was the only sovereign of
her time who maintained the dignity of the throne against Mazarin
and Richelieu.

Frederick the Great said that the Seven Years'War was waged against three
women,-- Elizabeth of Russia, Maria Theresa, and Mme.

The same net result could have been won with far less expenditure
in other ways. There is not a woman connected with it who could not
have achieved far more real publicity as a manager of charity fairs
or as a sensation letter-writer.

She could have
done this, too, with far less trouble, without the loss of a single genteel
friend, without forfeiting a single social attention, without having
a single ill-natured thing said about her-- except perhaps that she
bored people, a charge to which the highest and lowest forms of prominence
are equally open.

Nay, she might have done even more than this, if notoriety was her sole aim: for she might have become a "variety"
minstrel or a female pedestrian; she might have written a scandalous
novel; she might have got somebody to aim at her that harmless pistol,
which has helped the fame of so many a wandering actress, while its
bullet somehow never hits anything but the wall.

All this she might have done, and obtained a notoriety beyond doubt. Instead of this,
she has preferred to prowl about, picking up a precarious publicity by
giving lectures to willing lyceums, writing books for eager publishers,
organizing schools, setting up hospitals, and achieving for her sex
something like equal rights before the law.

In the volume containing the medical statistics of the Provost Marshal General's Bureau, we have
the tabulated reports of about 600,000 persons subject to draft,
and of about 500,000 recruits, substitutes, and drafted men; showing
the precise physical condition of more than a million men.

It appears that, out of the whole number examined, rather more than 257 in each 1000 were found unfit
for military service. It is curious to see how generally the physical power among these men is in inverse
ratio to the social and political prominence of the class they represent.

Out of 1000 unskilled laborers, for instance, only 348 are physically disqualified;
among tanners, only 216; among iron-workers, 189. With this greater
strength went naturally the assumption of greater political power.

But set either the House of Lords or the "Saturday Review" contributors upon a hand-to-hand fight
against an equal number of "navvies" or "coster-mongers," and the
patricians would have about as much chance as a crew of Vassar girls
in a boat-race with Yale or Harvard.

Take the men of England alone, and it is hardly too much to say that physical force, instead of being
the basis of political power in any class, is apt to be found in
inverse ratio to it.

In case of revolution, the strength of the governing class in any country
is not in its physical, but in its mental power.

Rank and money, and the power to influence and organize and command,
are merely different modifications of mental training, brought to
bear by somebody.

In our country, without class distinctions, the same truth can be easily shown. Physical power
lies mainly in the hands of the masses: wherever a class or profession
possesses more than its numerical share of power, it has usually
less than its proportion of physical vigor.

When we see the community yielding up its voting power into the hands of those who have actually
done military service, it will be time enough to exclude women for
not doing such service. If the alleged physical basis operates as an
exclusion of all non-combatants, it should surely give a monopoly
to the actual combatants.

THE VOTES OF NON-COMBATANTS The tendency of modern society is not to concentrate power in the hands
of the few, but to give a greater and greater share to the many. Boswell,
who was of an old Scotch family, had a difference of opinion with
his father about an entailed estate which had descended to them.

Boswell
wished the title so adjusted as to cut off all possibility of female heirship.
His father, on the other hand, wished to recognize such a contingency.

Boswell wrote to Johnson in 1776 for advice, urging a series of objections,
physiological and moral, to the inheritance of a family estate by
a woman; though, as he magnanimously admits, "they should be treated
with great affection and tenderness, and always participate of the
prosperity of the family."

This admirable statement should be carefully pondered by those who
hold that suffrage should be only coextensive with military duty. The
position that woman cannot properly vote because she cannot fight for her
vote efficiently is precisely like the position of feudalism and of
Boswell, that she could not properly hold real estate because she could not
fight for it. Each position may have had some plausibility in its day,
but the same current of events has made each obsolete. Those who in
these days believe in giving woman the ballot argue precisely as
Dr. Johnson did in 1776.

Times have changed, manners have softened, education has advanced, public opinion
now acts more forcibly; and the reference to physical force, though
still implied, is implied more and more remotely.

The political event of the age, the overthrow of American slavery, would not have been accomplished
without the "secular arm" of Grant and Sherman, let us agree: but
neither would it have been accomplished without the moral power of Garrison
the non-resistant, and Harriet Beecher Stowe the woman.

When the work is done, it is unfair to disfranchise any of the participants.
Under the feudal system it would have been absurd that women should
hold real estate, for the next armed warrior could dispossess her.

By Gail Hamilton's reasoning, it is equally absurd now: "One man
is stronger than one woman, and ten men are stronger than ten women;
and the nineteen millions of men in this country will subdue, capture,
and execute or expel the nineteen millions of women just as soon as
they set about it."

It will be precisely the same with voting. When any community is civilized
up to the point of enfranchising women, it will be civilized up to the point
of sustaining their vote, as it now sustains their property rights, by the
whole material force of the community. When the thing is once established,
it will no more occur to anybody that a woman's vote is powerless because she
cannot fight, than it now occurs to anybody that her title to real estate
is invalidated by the same circumstance. Woman is in the world; she
cannot be got rid of: she must be a serf or an equal; there is no
middle ground.

We have outgrown the theory of serfdom in a thousand ways, and may as well abandon the whole. Women have
now a place in society: their influence will be exerted, at any rate, in war and in peace, legally or illegally;
and it had better be exerted in direct, legitimate, and responsible methods, than in ways that are dark,
and by tricks that have not even the merit of being plain.

DANGEROUS VOTERS One of the few plausible objections brought against
women's voting is this: that it would demoralize the suffrage by
letting in very dangerous voters; that virtuous women would not vote,
and vicious women would.

The moral is that the love of notoriety is soon amply filled, in a reformer's
experience, and that he will not, as a rule, sacrifice home and comfort, money and
friends, without some stronger inducement. If we were to distribute
political power with reference to the "physical basis" which the
"Saturday Review" talks about, it would be a wholly new distribution,
and would put things more hopelessly upside down than did the worst
phase of the French Commune.

If, then, a political theory so utterly breaks down when applied to men, why should we insist on resuscitating
it in order to apply it to women? The truth is that as civilization
advances the world is governed more and more unequivocally by brains;
and whether those brains are deposited in a strong body or a weak
one becomes a matter of less and less importance.

On the other hand, among lawyers, 544 out of 1000 are disqualified; among journalists, 740; among clergymen,
954. Grave divines are horrified at the thought of admitting women
to vote, since they cannot fight; though not one in twenty of their own
number is fit for military duty, if he volunteered. Of the editors
who denounce woman suffrage, only about one in four could himself carry
a musket; while of the lawyers who fill Congress, the majority could
not be defenders of their country, but could only be defended.

To the heroes of "Ivanhoe," or "The Fair Maid of Perth," it would have seemed
as absurd that yeomen and lackeys should have any share in the government,
as it would seem to the members in an American legislature that women
should have any such share.

In a contest of mailed knights, any number of unarmed men were but
so many women. As Sir Philip Sidney said, "The wolf asketh not how many
the sheep may be."

But time and advancing civilization have tended steadily in one direction. "He giveth power to
the weak, and to them who have no might He increaseth strength." Every step in the extension of
political rights has consisted in opening them to a class hitherto humbler. The knight, being better
nourished and better trained, was apt to be the bodily superior of the peasant, to begin with; and this
strength was reinforced by armor, weapons, horse, castle, and all the resources
of feudal warfare. Simply because we now live in civilized society and under
a reign of law; because those men's respect for law is greater than
their appetite for property; or, if you prefer, because even those
landless men know that their own interest lies, in the long-run, on
the side of law.

This is easily shown from the vast body of evidence collected during our civil war. Pompadour. There
is nothing impotent in the statesmanship of women when they are admitted to exercise it:
they are only powerless for good when they are obliged to obtain
by wheedling and flattery a sway that should be recognized, responsible,
and limited.

MANNERS REPEAL LAWS There is in Boswell's "Life of Johnson" a correspondence
which is well worth reading by both advocates and opponents of woman suffrage.
This is certainly true of most of the men who have interested themselves
in this particular movement, the "weak-minded men," as the reporters,
with witty antithesis, still describe them; and it must be much the
same with the "strong-minded women" who share their base career.

And it is to be remembered, above all, that, considered as an engine
for obtaining notoriety, the woman-suffrage agitation is a great
waste of energy.


And he smiled at her.

He rested now in the ease of security.  His advent not having been expected there could be
no plot against him in existence. Drowsiness stole upon his senses.  He enjoyed it, but keeping
a hold, so he thought at least, on his wits; but he must have been gone further than he thought
because he was startled beyond measure by a fiendish uproar.  He had never heard anything so
pitilessly strident in his life.  The witches had started a fierce quarrel about something
or other.  Whatever its origin they were now only abusing each other violently, without arguments;
their senile screams expressed nothing but wicked anger and ferocious dismay. The gipsy girl's
black eyes flew from one to the other.  Never before had Byrne felt himself so removed from
fellowship with human beings.  Before he had really time to understand the subject of the quarrel,
the girl jumped up rattling her castanets loudly.  A silence fell.  She came up to the table
and bending over, her eyes in his -

"Senor," she said with decision, "You shall sleep in the archbishop's room."

Neither of the witches objected.  The dried-up one bent double was propped on a stick.  The
puffy faced one had now a crutch.

Byrne got up, walked to the door, and turning the key in the enormous lock put it coolly in
his pocket.  This was clearly the only entrance, and he did not mean to be taken unawares by
whatever danger there might have been lurking outside.

When he turned from the door he saw the two witches "affiliated to the Devil" and the Satanic
girl looking at him in silence.  He wondered if Tom Corbin took the same precaution last might.
And thinking of him he had again that queer impression of his nearness. The world was perfectly
dumb.  And in this stillness he heard the blood beating in his ears with a confused rushing
noise, in which there seemed to be a voice uttering the words:  "Mr. Byrne, look out, sir."
Tom's voice.  He shuddered; for the delusions of the senses of hearing are the most vivid of
all, and from their nature have a compelling character.

It seemed impossible that Tom should not be there.  Again a slight chill as of stealthy draught
penetrated through his very clothes and passed over all his body.  He shook off the impression
with an effort.

It was the girl who preceded him upstairs carrying an iron lamp from the naked flame of which
ascended a thin thread of smoke.  Her soiled white stockings were full of holes.

With the same quiet resolution with which he had locked the door below, Byrne threw open one
after another the doors in the corridor.  All the rooms were empty except for some nondescript
lumber in one or two.  And the girl seeing what he would be at stopped every time, raising
the smoky light in each doorway patiently.  Meantime she observed him with sustained attention.
The last door of all she threw open herself.

"You sleep here, senor," she murmured in a voice light like a child's breath, offering him
the lamp.

"Buenos noches, senorita," he said politely, taking it from her.

She didn't return the wish audibly, though her lips did move a little, while her gaze black
like a starless night never for a moment wavered before him.  He stepped in, and as he turned
to close the door she was still there motionless and disturbing, with her voluptuous mouth
and slanting eyes, with the expression of expectant sensual ferocity of a baffled cat.  He
hesitated for a moment, and in the dumb house he heard again the blood pulsating ponderously
in his ears, while once more the illusion of Tom's voice speaking earnestly somewhere near
by was specially terrifying, because this time he could not make out the words.

He slammed the door in the girl's face at last, leaving her in the dark; and he opened it again
almost on the instant.  Nobody.  She had vanished without the slightest sound.  He closed the
door quickly and bolted it with two heavy bolts.

A profound mistrust possessed him suddenly.  Why did the witches quarrel about letting him
sleep here?  And what meant that stare of the girl as if she wanted to impress his features
for ever in her mind?  His own nervousness alarmed him.  He seemed to himself to be removed
very far from mankind.

He examined his room.  It was not very high, just high enough to take the bed which stood under
an enormous baldaquin-like canopy from which fell heavy curtains at foot and head; a bed certainly
worthy of an archbishop.  There was a heavy table carved all round the edges, some arm-chairs
of enormous weight like the spoils of a grandee's palace; a tall shallow wardrobe placed against
the wall and with double doors.  He tried them.  Locked.  A suspicion came into his mind, and
he snatched the lamp to make a closer examination.  No, it was not a disguised entrance.  That
heavy, tall piece of furniture stood clear of the wall by quite an inch. He glanced at the
bolts of his room door.  No!  No one could get at him treacherously while he slept.  But would
he be able to sleep? he asked himself anxiously.  If only he had Tom there--the trusty seaman
who had fought at his right hand in a cutting out affair or two, and had always preached to
him the necessity to take care of himself.  "For it's no great trick," he used to say, "to
get yourself killed in a hot fight.  Any fool can do that.  The proper pastime is to fight
the Frenchies and then live to fight another day."

Byrne found it a hard matter not to fall into listening to the silence.  Somehow he had the
conviction that nothing would break it unless he heard again the haunting sound of Tom's voice.
He had heard it twice before.  Odd!  And yet no wonder, he argued with himself reasonably,
since he had been thinking of the man for over thirty hours continuously and, what's more,
inconclusively.  For his anxiety for Tom had never taken a definite shape.  "Disappear," was
the only word connected with the idea of Tom's danger.  It was very vague and awful.  "Disappear!"
What did that mean?

Byrne shuddered, and then said to himself that he must be a little feverish.  But Tom had not
disappeared.  Byrne had just heard of him.  And again the young man felt the blood beating
in his ears. He sat still expecting every moment to hear through the pulsating strokes the
sound of Tom's voice.  He waited straining his ears, but nothing came.  Suddenly the thought
occurred to him:  "He has not disappeared, but he cannot make himself heard."

He jumped up from the arm-chair.  How absurd!  Laying his pistol and his hanger on the table
he took off his boots and, feeling suddenly too tired to stand, flung himself on the bed which
he found soft and comfortable beyond his hopes.

He had felt very wakeful, but he must have dozed off after all, because the next thing he knew
he was sitting up in bed and trying to recollect what it was that Tom's voice had said.  Oh!
He remembered it now.  It had said:  "Mr. Byrne!  Look out, sir!"  A warning this.  But against
what? 

Select round tomatoes of equal size; peel and scoop out the seeds from the stem end. Place the
tomatoes on the ice till shortly before serving; then fill with celery that has been chopped
fine and mixed with mayonnaise. Arrange the filled tomatoes on lettuce leaves on a flat dish or
plate. Garnish the dish further by placing the ends of celery and sprigs of parsley on top of each tomato.
Serve with toasted cheese, biscuits, or salted wafers. Be generous with the filling. Use plenty of
the mayonnaise and celery and fill tomatoes to the top.

SALAD DRESSING.

MRS. R. STUART.

Two eggs (well beaten), one cup sweet milk, one half cup vinegar (scant)
one teaspoon mixed mustard, one tablespoon butter (melted).

Pepper and salt to taste, mix thoroughly. Cut in strips and bake five or to ten minutes in a quick
oven. CHEESE SCALLOP. MISS FRASER. Soak one cup of dried bread crumbs
in fresh milk.

Into this beat the yolks of three eggs, add one teaspoon of butter,
and half a pound of grated cheese.

Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs, and bake a delicate brown.

Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth; put on top and return
to the oven for a few minutes. Each CHAFING DISH. A Relish and a Savory.
Welsh RAREBIT. MISS GRACE M'MILLAN. Allow for each person one egg, one
tablespoonful of grated cheese, one half teaspoonful of butter, one
saltspoon of salt, and a few grains of cayenne.

Cook like custard until smooth. Spread on toast and serve at once.

Welsh RAREBIT. MISS BEEMER.

Select richest and best american cheese, (Canadian will do), the
milder the better, as melting brings out strength.

To make five rarebits take one pound cheese grate and put in the saucepan; add
ale (old is best) enough to thin the cheese sufficiently, say about a wine
glassful to each rarebit.

Place over the fire, stir until it is melted.

Have ready a slice of toast for each rarebit (crusts trimmed); put
a slice on each plate, and pour cheese enough over each piece to cover
it.

Serve at once. Golden BUCK a "golden Buck" is merely the addition of a poached egg which is put carefully
on top of rarebit. LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG. MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

Two pounds of lobster, one half cup of cream, two eggs (hard boiled),
one tablespoon flour, two tablespoons of Sherry wine, two tablespoons
of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to taste.

Break the lobster meat into then small pieces, mash the yolks of the eggs with
a silver spoon and gradually add half the cream. Place the butter in a granite
ware saucepan, add the flour, let it cook slowly for one minute and
so pour in the balance of the cream and stir until the liquid thickens.

Add the first mixture and then the lobster meat and the whites of the eggs sliced, season with cayenne
pepper, and salt, add the wine and serve at once. LOBSTER À LA NEWBURG. MRS. HARRY LAURIE. Two tablespoons
of butter, one tablespoon of flour, stir until smooth, add one cup
of cream, let it heat through, then add one can of lobster.

Pepper
and salt to taste and one half cup of Sherry or Port wine, if desired;
serve at once on squares of toast.

Canned chicken
or salmon can be done the same way.

OYSTER COCKTAIL.

MISS RITCHIE.

One dessertspoonful tomato sauce, one shake of tabasco, a sprinkle of horse
radish, about half a dozen oysters, and the same on top. Serve in small tumblers
on a plate with pounded ice around them and with oyster biscuits. Crustine.
MRS. A. COOK.

Boil the liver of two chickens, (or turkey will do), pound them to a paste with a piece of butter
the size of a walnut, a teaspoon of anchovy and a little cayenne. Serve on hot toast. Small anchovies
whole, laid on top are an improvement.

PIES.

"Who dare deny the truth, there's poetry in pie."-- longfellow.

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. MR. JOSEPH FLEIG. (Baker, grenoble Hotel, N. Y.) Place on a deep pie plate a thin
layer of pie crust, put a good rim on the side and put into this one
half cup of dried cocoanut; fill out the shells, cut lengthwise,
take out the yolks, mash them in a basin, add the butter melted, the
minced ham and the parsley.

Put the mixture into the whites of the eggs.

Put the two halves together. Serve on shallow dish with the following white sauce:
one tablespoon the of butter, flour, and salt, one cup milk, one saltspoon capsicum.
Melt the butter add the flour, then the milk (gradually) and pepper
and salt.

Baked OMELET.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One cupful boiling milk, beat the yolks of four eggs, add hot milk, and
a tablespoonful melted butter, wet three teaspoonfuls flour in a little
cold milk add the beaten whites and beat all, salt and pepper to taste.
Bake twenty minutes. CHEESE OMELET. MRS. HENRY THOMSON. Three eggs,
well beaten, grated cheese the size of an egg, salt, three tablespoons
of fresh cream.

OMELET. MISS M'gee. Seven eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful
flour, parsley, pepper and salt.

Beat the whites and yolks separately, add the milk, pepper, salt,
and chopped parsley and the flour dissolved in a little milk, then
add the whites, put in the frying pan, leave on top of the stove for
three minutes and put in the oven for five minutes.

OMELETTE.

MISS MAUD THOMSON. The yolks of four beaten eggs, four tablespoons
of milk, a pinch of salt: beat the whites of the four eggs as stiff
as possible, add to the above, turn into a frying pan, until the mixture
sets and then put in the oven until a golden brown.

CHEESE DISHES. CHEESE STRAWS. MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON. Mix one cupful of any good cheese grated with
one cupful of flour, one half saltspoonful of salt, a pinch of cayenne pepper and butter
the size of an egg. Add enough cold water to enable you to roll thin. Set in kettle of boiling water
and stir till it thickens, (about four minutes), when ready to use it add two tablespoons cream. SALAD
SANDWICHES. MRS. J. LAURIE.

For twenty four slices of bread and butter, take two small tomatoes,
one small lettuce, one bunch cress, two tablespoons salad oil, one
tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt.

Shred all the salad finely.

Mix well with the vinaigrette and put a little on half the bread and
butter. Cover with the other half, press together and trim neatly.
SALAD DRESSING without OIL. MRS. GILMOUR. The yolks of two egg boiled
half an hour, one half egg spoon of mustard, one dessert spoon of
sugar, pinch of salt, a little pepper.

One cup of sour or sweet cream, one dessert spoon of vinegar.

SALAD DRESSING for TOMATOES.

MRS. A. J. ELLIOT.

Half a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one cup of vinegar, one tablespoon
of salt, two tablespoons of made mustard, a dash of sugar and cayenne,
and four eggs.

Slice tomatoes and arrange in layers.

Garnish dish with either salad or parsley.

METHOD: Scald the milk and melt the butter with it, pour this on the
eggs well beaten, add the salt and then the vinegar, this last slowly,
and stir all the time.

Then cook in a pot in hot water, until as thick as custard, when cold add the mustard.-- prepared
mustard is made as follows: two tablespoonful mustard, one teaspoon sugar, half a teaspoon
salt, enough boiling water to mix. Half this quantity is enough for
ordinary use.

The above recipe is also good for chicken.

Put the eggs in churn water.

Preserving EGGS. MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH. (which keeps them from June to June.)
half a gallon of fresh lime to five gallons of water added by degrees,
two and one half gallons the first day, the rest next, then add one
half gallon coarse salt, stir two or three times a day for three
days, after this drop in four eggs gently.

To test the strength of the lime-water drop in an egg that you know
to be fresh, and if it floats the lime is too strong, add another
gallon or more of water until you find the egg dropping to the bottom.

Curée EGGS.

Miss MITCHELL.

Boil six eggs quite hard, then shell and cut them in half; have drawn
butter not too thick, flavor with curée powder. Place your eggs on
a side dish, pour your curée round and finish with parsley: makes
a pretty lunch dish.

Poached EGGS. Have nicely cut hot buttered toast, with a little anchovy
paste.

After poaching your eggs, put them on the toast and sprinkle finely
chopped parsley over them.

Garnish the dish with parsley.

ANCHOVY EGGS. MADAME J. T. Boil three eggs hard, turn in the water for the first two minutes.
Let boil for one hour; cut in two, remove the yolks and leave the whites in cold water not to discolor.
Pound three anchovies in a mortar with one tablespoon butter, small pinch of pepper, one shake cayenne,
one half teaspoon lemon juice and the yolks of the eggs.

When pounded smooth put back into the eggs.

Sardines can be used instead of the anchovies.

Stuffed EGGS.

MRS. W. CLINT.

Three eggs, one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of parsley, two tablespoons minced ham. Boil the eggs
for ten minutes; take off with a custard made as follows: three eggs, three ounces of sugar beaten together
with flavoring of lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, little salt and add one
pint of milk.

The custard must be three quarters of an inch thick.

LEMON PIE FILLING.

MRS. JAMES LAURIE. Mix together two cups of white sugar, yolks of three
eggs, juice of two lemons, grated rind of half a lemon; put it on
the stove to boil and add at once one tea-cup boiling water, stir
smooth, then add two tablespoons of corn starch, mixed in a little
cold water, and one tablespoon of butter, boil until it custards.

LEMON PIE. MRS. GEORGE CRESSMAN. Grate one lemon, put this down to boil with two-thirds of a cup
of water for ten minutes, strain through fine sieve, then add one cup sugar, the juice of a lemon
and butter half the size of an egg, let boil a few minutes. Mix two teaspoonfuls of corn-starch
and yolk of one egg in half cup milk stir in the mixture letting
it boil until thick.

Beat whites of two eggs into stiff froth for frosting.

LEMON PIE.

MRS. STRANG. Take two lemons, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls melted
butter, eight tablespoonfuls black sugar; squeeze the juice of the
lemons and grate the rind of one, stir together the yolks of three
eggs and white of one with the sugar, butter, juice and rind, then
one (coffee) cup of sweet cream or milk, beat all for a minute or
two; have ready a plate lined with paste, into which pour the mixture
which will be sufficient for two pies of the ordinary size.

Bake till the pastry is done.

Meanwhile beat the remaining whites to a stiff froth and stir in
four spoonfuls of white sugar.

Take the pies from the oven and spread over equal parts upon each and
return them quickly to the oven and bake a delicate brown. Take care
that the oven be not too hot, or they will brown too quickly and
cause the pie to fall when taken up.

PASTRY.
Four tablespoons of butter, ten teaspoons flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one salt spoon salt,
enough water to make a very soft paste.

Mock CHERRY PIE. MRS. W. W. HENRY. One cup cranberries cut up, one
half cup of raisins chopped, one half cup of cold water, one teaspoonful
vanilla, one tablespoonful corn-starch, two-thirds cup sugar, a little
salt.

This makes one pie. MINCE
MEAT. MRS. HENRY THOMSON. One pound of suet, one pound of fresh tongue,
one pound apples, one pound sugar, one pound raisins, one pound currants,
two nutmegs, a large teaspoon of cinnamon, ditto of cloves and salt,
one half pound of candied peel.

PIE PLANT PIE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

One cup sugar, well beaten with yolks of two eggs; add one pint of pie
plant, bake with one crust, then spread beaten whites, with tablespoon
sugar over top; return to oven a few moments.

RAISIN PIE. One beaker chopped raisins, one half cup chopped apples, four containerful vinegar, one tablespoon
cornstarch, one cup of boiling water, one cup sugar, pinch of salt,
mix together, bake with two crusts.

Sour CREAM PIE.

One cup thick sour cream, pinch of salt, one egg, one half cup caramel,
scant tea-spoon of flour, one half cup raisins; beat cream, sugar,
and flour together, lay the raisins round on the top; bake with two
crusts.

PUMPKIN PIE. MISS BEEMER. PASTE. PUDDINGS. "the proof of the pudding
lies in the eating." ALMOND PUDDING MRS. STOCKING. One pint of milk,
two eggs, two heaping tablespoons of maple sugar, one heaping tablespoon
of cornstarch, flavor with almond; cook milk, sugar, and cornstarch
in double boiler, adding yolks of eggs when boiling; pour into pudding
dish, cover with whites of the eggs, and brown in oven, to be served
cold.

APPLE BATTER PUDDING.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

Stew
the apples in a pie dish, when soft place the following batter on top:
one egg, one tablespoon each of sugar and butter, two tablespoonfuls
each of milk and flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, bake forty
five minutes in a slow oven, serve with cream.

BANANA PUDDING. MISS J. P. M'GIE.

Two tablespoonfuls of cornstarch wet with cold liquid, one cup of
white sugar and one third of a cup of butter.

Stir
together in a dish, pour on boiling water to make a thick custard;
stir in the well beaten yolks of three eggs, bring to a boil.

Slice thin a few ripe bananas, pour the custard over them.

Put whipped cream on top or if not cream the whites of the three
eggs well beaten with sugar.

To be eaten cold. BREAD PUDDING. MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE. Sliced bread to fill a pudding bowl; one layer
of bread, one layer of fruit with sugar to taste and small lumps of butter. Continue until bowl
is full, put a plate on top and steam for at least two hours, more
will do no harm.

Turn out a few minutes before wanted to let the juice penetrate the
bread that was uppermost.

COTTAGE PUDDING.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

After rubbing together a cupful of sugar and a tablespoon of butter, add
two eggs, and after beating the mixture until light, add a cupful of milk;
mix well in a sieve a pint of sifted flour and three teaspoons of baking
powder, rub through the sieve into the mixture already made, beat quickly
and pour the batter into one large pudding dish or two small ones.

Sprinkle with sugar, bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes or
thirty if there be two.

Service hot with lemon sauce or any sweet sauce.

LEMON SAUCE.-- Beat two eggs very light, and add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon
of melted butter, one little tablespoon of cornstarch, beat all together,
then add one cup of boiling water, cook five minutes, boiling all the
while.

Cook a little longer if set in a basin
of hot water, take from the fire, and add juice of lemon. CHOCOLATE
PUDDING. One quart of milk scalded, two eggs well beaten, add gradually
one cup sugar.

With
the eggs and sugar mix two thirds cup of cornstarch, and three heaping
tablespoons grated chocolate dissolved over hot water, stir into the
milk until a soft custard, add one teaspoon of vanilla, serve with
whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING.

MRS. W. J. FRASER. One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, one tea cup of sugar,
three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of chocolate, one half teaspoonful essence
of vanilla. Let the milk come to a boil, scald the bread crumbs, when
almost cool, beat the yolks of three eggs, add sugar and chocolate, to
the bread and milk. Bake one half hour, slow oven. When cool, beat
the whites of three eggs and put meringues. CARAMEL PUDDING. MRS.
RATTRAY. Take one coffee cup full of brown carbohydrate, put it in
a frying pan over a slow fire and burn it, then pour it into one and
a half pints of milk in a saucepan and place the latter on the fire
to come to a boil, but do not stir it in case the milk should crack.
Blend three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with a little cold milk,
and when the milk and sugar boil stir the starch in.

Put it in a mould to get cold and eat with whipped cream.

CARAMEL
PUDDING. MRS. W. W. WELCH. One pint of milk, one pound of brown sugar, one
coffee cup of chopped walnuts, two heaping tablespoons of cornstarch,
pinch of salt.

Put
the milk in a double boiler, when boiling put in cornstarch dissolved
in a little cold milk; let it cook a few minutes, put in the sugar
which has been previously burnt a little, then add the nuts, stir
a few minutes, flavor with vanilla, put into a mould, and eat with
whipped cream.

COCOANUT SPONGE.

MISS LAMPSON. Two cups of stale sponge
cake crumbs, two cups of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, yolks of
two eggs and whites of four, one cup of white sugar, one tablespoonful
of rose water, a little nutmeg.

Scald the milk and beat into this the cake crumbs.

When nearly cold add the eggs, sugar, rose water and lastly the cocoanut.

Broil three
quarters of an hour in a buttered pudding dish. Eat cold, with white sugar
sifted over it. Dutch APPLE CAKE, LEMON SAUCE. MRS. STOCKING. Fried
CREAM. MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Everyone
should try this receipt; it will surprise many to know how soft cream
could be enveloped in the crust while it is an exceedingly good dish
for a dinner course or for lunch or tea.

When the pudding is hard, it can be rolled in the egg and bread crumbs.

The moment the egg touches the hot
lard it hardens and secures the pudding which softens to a creamy
substance very delicious. Ingredients, one pint of milk, five ounces
of sugar (little more than half a cupful,) butter the size of a hickory
nut, yolks of three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of corn starch, and one
tablespoonful of flour, (a generous half cupful altogether), stick
of cinnamon one inch long, one half teaspoonful of vanilla.

Put the cinnamon into the milk and when it is just about to boil,
stir in the sugar, cornstarch and flour, the two latter rubbed smooth
with two or three tablespoons of extra cold milk: stir it over the
fire for fully two minutes, to cook well the starch and flour; take
it from the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs and return
it a few minutes to set them; now again taking it from the fire remove
the cinnamon, stir in the butter and vanilla and pour it on a buttered
platter until one third of an inch high.

When cold and stiff cut the
pudding into parallelograms, about three inches long and two inches
wide: roll them carefully, first in sifted cracker crumbs then in eggs
(slightly beaten and sweetened) then again in cracker-crumbs.

Dip these into boiling hot lard (a wire hoop should be used if convenient)
and when of fine color, take them out and place them in the oven for
four or five minutes to better soften the pudding.

Sprinkle over
pulverized sugar and serve immediately. FEATHER PUDDING. MRS. W. R. DEAN.
One tablespoon butter, one cup white sugar, two eggs, a little salt, one
cup sweet milk, two tablespoons baking powder three cups of flour,
one and one half teaspoons flavoring.

Steam one hour.

Eat
with sauce.

FIG PUDDING.

MRS. Thom.

One cup suet, one half pound figs cut
fine, two cups bread-crumbs, one cup flour, one half cup brown sugar,
one egg, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, steam
three hours.

Gelatine PUDDING (Pink.) MRS. W. R. DEAN.

Put one ounce pink gelatine and one quart of milk in a bowl on the
stove where it will not get hot; when dissolved add yolks of four
eggs, beaten with four tablespoons sugar, stir well, let it just come
to the boil, moderately add the whites well beaten, with four tablespoons
of sugar and a dessert spoon vanilla.

Turn into a mould and let it
cool, then turn out and garnish with whipped cream. This is a very
pretty dish. GRAHAM PUDDING.


"The best of Chinamen as employers is that they have such gentlemanly instincts.  Once they
become convinced that you are a straight man, they give you their unbounded confidence.  You
simply can't do wrong, then.  And they are pretty quick judges of character, too.  Davidson's
Chinaman was the first to find out his worth, on some theoretical principle.  One day in his
counting- house, before several white men he was heard to declare:  'Captain Davidson is a
good man.'  And that settled it.  After that you couldn't tell if it was Davidson who belonged
to the Chinaman or the Chinaman who belonged to Davidson.  It was he who, shortly before he
died, ordered in Glasgow the new Sissie for Davidson to command."

We walked into the shade of the Harbour Office and leaned our elbows on the parapet of the quay.

"She was really meant to comfort poor Davidson," continued Hollis. "Can you fancy anything
more naively touching than this old mandarin spending several thousand pounds to console his
white man? Well, there she is.  The old mandarin's sons have inherited her, and Davidson with
her; and he commands her; and what with his salary and trading privileges he makes a lot of
money; and everything is as before; and Davidson even smiles--you have seen it?  Well, the
smile's the only thing which isn't as before."

"Tell me, Hollis," I asked, "what do you mean by good in this connection?"

"Well, there are men who are born good just as others are born witty.  What I mean is his nature.
No simpler, more scrupulously delicate soul had ever lived in such a--a--comfortable envelope.
How we used to laugh at Davidson's fine scruples!  In short, he's thoroughly humane, and I
don't imagine there can be much of any other sort of goodness that counts on this earth.  And
as he's that with a shade of particular refinement, I may well call him a 'REALLY good man.'"

I knew from old that Hollis was a firm believer in the final value of shades.  And I said:
"I see"--because I really did see Hollis's Davidson in the sympathetic stout man who had passed
us a little while before.  But I remembered that at the very moment he smiled his placid face
appeared veiled in melancholy--a sort of spiritual shadow.  I went on.

"Who on earth has paid him off for being so fine by spoiling his smile?"

"That's quite a story, and I will tell it to you if you like. Confound it!  It's quite a surprising
one, too.  Surprising in every way, but mostly in the way it knocked over poor Davidson--and
apparently only because he is such a good sort.  He was telling me all about it only a few
days ago.  He said that when he saw these four fellows with their heads in a bunch over the
table, he at once didn't like it.  He didn't like it at all.  You mustn't suppose that Davidson
is a soft fool.  These men -

"But I had better begin at the beginning.  We must go back to the first time the old dollars
had been called in by our Government in exchange for a new issue.  Just about the time when
I left these parts to go home for a long stay.  Every trader in the islands was thinking of
getting his old dollars sent up here in time, and the demand for empty French wine cases--you
know the dozen of vermouth or claret size--was something unprecedented.  The custom was to
pack the dollars in little bags of a hundred each.  I don't know how many bags each case would
hold.  A good lot.  Pretty tidy sums must have been moving afloat just then.  But let us get
away from here.  Won't do to stay in the sun.  Where could we--?  I know! let us go to those
tiffin-rooms over there."

We moved over accordingly.  Our appearance in the long empty room at that early hour caused
visible consternation amongst the China boys.  But Hollis led the way to one of the tables
between the windows screened by rattan blinds.  A brilliant half-light trembled on the ceiling,
on the whitewashed walls, bathed the multitude of vacant chairs and tables in a peculiar, stealthy
glow.

"All right.  We will get something to eat when it's ready," he said, waving the anxious Chinaman
waiter aside.  He took his temples touched with grey between his hands, leaning over the table
to bring his face, his dark, keen eyes, closer to mine.

"Davidson then was commanding the steamer Sissie--the little one which we used to chaff him
about.  He ran her alone, with only the Malay serang for a deck officer.  The nearest approach
to another white man on board of her was the engineer, a Portuguese half- caste, as thin as
a lath and quite a youngster at that.  For all practical purposes Davidson was managing that
command of his single-handed; and of course this was known in the port.  I am telling you of
it because the fact had its influence on the developments you shall hear of presently.

"His steamer, being so small, could go up tiny creeks and into shallow bays and through reefs
and over sand-banks, collecting produce, where no other vessel but a native craft would think
of venturing.  It is a paying game, often.  Davidson was known to visit in her places that
no one else could find and that hardly anybody had ever heard of.

"The old dollars being called in, Davidson's Chinaman thought that the Sissie would be just
the thing to collect them from small traders in the less frequented parts of the Archipelago.
It's a good business.  Such cases of dollars are dumped aft in the ship's lazarette, and you
get good freight for very little trouble and space.

"Davidson, too, thought it was a good idea; and together they made up a list of his calls on
his next trip.  Then Davidson (he had naturally the chart of his voyages in his head) remarked
that on his way back he might look in at a certain settlement up a mere creek, where a poor
sort of white man lived in a native village. Davidson pointed out to his Chinaman that the
fellow was certain to have some rattans to ship.

"'Probably enough to fill her forward,' said Davidson.  'And that'll be better than bringing
her back with empty holds.  A day more or less doesn't matter.'

"This was sound talk, and the Chinaman owner could not but agree. But if it hadn't been sound
it would have been just the same. Davidson did what he liked.  He was a man that could do no
wrong. However, this suggestion of his was not merely a business matter. There was in it a
touch of Davidsonian kindness.  For you must know that the man could not have continued to
live quietly up that creek if it had not been for Davidson's willingness to call there from
time to time.  And Davidson's Chinaman knew this perfectly well, too.  So he only smiled his
dignified, bland smile, and said:  'All right, Captain.  You do what you like.'

"I will explain presently how this connection between Davidson and that fellow came about.
Now I want to tell you about the part of this affair which happened here--the preliminaries of it.

"You know as well as I do that these tiffin-rooms where we are sitting now have been in existence
for many years.  Well, next day about twelve o'clock, Davidson dropped in here to get something
to eat.

"And here comes the only moment in this story where accident--mere accident--plays a part.
If Davidson had gone home that day for tiffin, there would be now, after twelve years or more,
nothing changed in his kindly, placid smile.

"But he came in here; and perhaps it was sitting at this very table that he remarked to a friend
of mine that his next trip was to be a dollar-collecting trip.  He added, laughing, that his
wife was making rather a fuss about it.  She had begged him to stay ashore and get somebody
else to take his place for a voyage.  She thought there was some danger on account of the dollars.
He told her, he said, that there were no Java-sea pirates nowadays except in boys' books. 
He had laughed at her fears, but he was very sorry, too; for when she took any notion in her
head it was impossible to argue her out of it.  She would be worrying herself all the time
he was away.  Well, he couldn't help it.  There was no one ashore fit to take his place for
the trip.

"This friend of mine and I went home together in the same mail- boat, and he mentioned that
conversation one evening in the Red Sea while we were talking over the things and people we
had just left, with more or less regret.

"I can't say that Davidson occupied a very prominent place.  Moral excellence seldom does.
He was quietly appreciated by those who knew him well; but his more obvious distinction consisted
in this, that he was married.  Ours, as you remember, was a bachelor crowd; in spirit anyhow,
if not absolutely in fact.  There might have been a few wives in existence, but if so they
were invisible, distant, never alluded to.  For what would have been the good?  Davidson alone
was visibly married.

"Being married suited him exactly.  It fitted him so well that the wildest of us did not resent
the fact when it was disclosed. Directly he had felt his feet out here, Davidson sent for his
wife. She came out (from West Australia) in the Somerset, under the care of Captain Ritchie--you
know, Monkey-face Ritchie--who couldn't praise enough her sweetness, her gentleness, and her
charm.  She seemed to be the heaven-born mate for Davidson.  She found on arrival a very pretty
bungalow on the hill, ready for her and the little girl they had.  Very soon he got for her
a two-wheeled trap and a Burmah pony, and she used to drive down of an evening to pick up Davidson,
on the quay.  When Davidson, beaming, got into the trap, it would become very full all at once.

"We used to admire Mrs. Davidson from a distance. The ego which Fichte conceives as universal reason becomes
for them the subjective empirical self, the unique personality, in which the unconscious, spontaneous,
impulsive, instinctive phase constitutes the original element, the
more extravagant among them transforming the rational moral ego into
a romantic ego, an ego full of mystery and caprice, and even a lawless
ego.

Such an ego is read into nature; for, filled with occult magic forces, nature must be what it is,
an order ruled by the iron law of causality. This cheerless conception of nature-- which, however,
was not Fichte's endure word on the subject, since he afterward came
to conceive it as the revelation of universal life, or the expression
of a pantheistic God-- did not attract Romanticism.

It was Schelling, the erstwhile follower and admirer of Fichte, who turned his attention to the
philosophy of nature and so more thoroughly satisfied the romantic
yearnings of the age.

Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling was born at Leonberg, Würtemberg,
January 27, 1775, the son of a learned clergyman and writer on theology.
He was a precocious child and made rapid progress in his studies,
entering the Theological Seminary at Tübingen at the age of fifteen.

Between the ages of nineteen and twenty-two he wrote a number of able
treatises in the spirit of the new idealism, and was recognized as the most
talented pupil of Fichte and his best interpreter.

After the completion of his course at the University (1795), he became
the tutor and handle of two young noblemen with whom he remained
for two years (1796-98) at the University of Leipzig, during which
time he devoted himself to the study of mathematics, physics, and
medicine, and published a number of philosophical articles.

In 1798 he received a call to a professorship at Jena, where Fichte, Schiller, Wilhelm Schlegel,
and Hegel became his colleagues, and where he entered into friendly relations
with the Romantic circle of which Caroline Schlegel, who afterward
became his wife, was a shining light.

This was the most productive period of his life; during the next few years
he developed his own system of philosophy and gave to the world his
most brilliant writings. It is moral truth that both sets us free and
demonstrates our freedom, and that makes harmony possible between the
mechanical theory of science and the teleological conception of philosophy.

The scientific understanding would plunge us into determinism and agnosticism;
from these, faith in the moral law alone can deliver us. In this
sense Kant destroyed knowledge to make room for a rational faith
in a supersensible world, to save the independence and dignity of
the human self and the spiritual values of his people.

In claiming a place for the autonomous personality in what appeared
to be a mechanical universe, Kant gave voice to some of the deeper
yearnings of the age.

The German Enlightenment, the new humanism, mysticism, pietism, and
the faith-philosophy were all interested in the human soul, and unwilling
to sacrifice it to the demands of a rationalistic science or metaphysics.

In seeking to rescue it, the great criticist, piloted by the moral law, steered his course between
the rocks of rationalism, sentimentalism, and scepticism. It was his solution of the controversy between
the head and the heart that influenced Fichte, Schelling, and Schleiermacher.

They differed from Kant and among themselves in many respects, but they all glorified the spirit,
Geist, as the living, active element of reality, and they all rejected the intellect as the source
of ultimate truth. They followed him in his anti-intellectualism,
its intuition, the high value it placed upon the personality, its
historical viewpoint, and its faith in the uniqueness of duty and
to free himself from the bondage of nature, to be a person, not a
thing, to coöperate in the realization of the eternal purpose which
is working itself out in the history of humanity, to sacrifice himself
for the ideal of freedom.

Every individual has his particular place in which to labor for the social whole; how to do it, his conscience
will tell him without fail. And so, too, the German people has its peculiar
place in civilization, its unique contribution to make in the struggle
of the human race for the development of free personality. It is Germany's
mission to regain its nationality, in order that it may take the
philosophical leadership in the work of civilization, and to establish
a State based upon personal liberty, a veritable kingdom of justice,
such as has never appeared on earth, which shall realize freedom based
upon the equality of all who bear the human form.

The Fichtean philosophy holds the mirror up to its age. With the Enlightenment it glorifies reason,
the free personality, nationality, humanity, civilization, and progress; in this regard it
expresses the spirit of all modern philosophy. It goes beyond the Aufklärung in emphasizing the living,
moving, developing nature of reality; for it, life and consciousness
constitute the essence of things, and universal life reveals itself
in a progressive history of mankind.

Moreover, the dynamic spiritual process cannot be comprehended by conceptual thought, by the categories
of a rationalistic science and philosophy, but only by itself, by the living experience of a free agent.
In the categorical imperative, and not in logical reasonings, the individual becomes aware of his destiny;
in the sense of duty, the love of truth, loyalty to country, respect for the rights of man, and
reverence for ideals, spirit speaks to spirit and man glimpses the
eternal. Among the elements in this idealism that appealed to the Romanticists
were its anti-intellectualism, but they did not avoid, as he did, the attractive
doctrine of an inner intuition; according to them we can somehow grasp
the supersensible in an inner experience which Fichte called intellectual,
Schelling artistic, Schleiermacher religious.

The bankruptcy of the intelligence was overcome in their systems by the discovery of a faculty
that revealed to them the living, dynamic nature of the universe. They were all more or less
influenced by the romantic currents of the times, seeking with Herder and Jacobi an approach to the heart
of things other than through the categories of logic. Like Lessing
and Goethe, they were also attracted to the pantheistic teaching of
Spinoza, though rejecting its rigid determinism so far as it might
affect the human will. They likewise accepted the idea of development
which the leaders of Teuton literature, Lessing, Herder, and Goethe, had already
opposed to the unhistorical Aufklärung, and which came to play such
a prominent part in the great system of Hegel.

Johann Gottlieb Fichte was born in Ramenau, Oberlausitz, May 19, 1762, the son of a poor weaver. Through
the generosity of a nobleman, the gifted lad was enabled to follow his intellectual bent; after
attending the schools at Meissen and Schulpforta he studied theology at the universities of Jena, Leipzig,
and Wittenberg with the purpose of entering the ministry. His poverty
frequently compelled him to interrupt his studies by accepting private
tutorships in families, so that he never succeeded in preparing him
self for the examinations. In 1790 he became acquainted with Kant's philosophy,
which two students had asked him to expound to them, and to which
he now devoted himself with feverish zeal. It revolutionized his entire
mode of thought and determined the course of his life.

The anonymous publication of his book, Attempt at a Critique of all Revelation, in 1792, written from
the Kantian point of view and mistaken at first for a work of the
great criticist, won him fame and a professorship at Jena (1794).

Here, in the intellectual centre of Germany, Fichte became the eloquent exponent of the new idealism,
which aimed at the reform of life as well as of Wissenschaft; he not
only taught philosophy, but preached it, as Kuno Fischer has aptly
said.

During the Jena period he laid the foundations for his "Science of Knowledge" (Wissenschaftslehre)
which he presented in numerous works: The Conception of the Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation
of the Entire Science of Knowledge, 1794; The Foundation of Natural Rights,
1796; The System of Ethics, 1798-- (all these translated by Kroeger);
the two Introductions to the Science of Knowledge, 1797 (trans. by
Kroeger in Journal of Speculative Philosophy).

The appearance of an article Concerning the Ground of our Belief in a Divine World-Order,
1798, in which Fichte seemed to identify God with the moral world-order, brought
down upon him the charge of atheism, against which he vigorously defended himself
in his Appeal to the Public and a series of other writings. Full of indignation
over the attitude which his government assumed in the matter, be
offered his resignation (1799) and removed to Berlin, where he presented
his philosophical notions in popular public lectures and in writings
which were characterized by clearness, force, and moral earnestness
rather than by their systematic form.

There appeared: The Vocation of Man, 1800 (translated by Dr. Smith); A Sun-Clear Statement concerning
the Nature of the New Philosophy, 1801 (trans. by Kroeger in Journal of Speculative
Philosophy); The Nature of the Scholar, 1806 (trans. by Smith); Characteristics
of the Present Age, 1806 (trans. by Smith); The Way towards the Blessed Life,
1806 (trans. by Smith). After the overthrow of Prussia by Napoleon,
in 1806, Fichte fled from Berlin to Königsberg and Sweden, but returned
when peace was declared in 1807, and delivered his celebrated Addresses
to the German Nation, 1807-08, in which he sought to arouse the German
people to a consciousness of their national mission and their duty
even while the French army was still occupying the Prussian capital.

Fichte was appointed professor of philosophy (1810) in the new University of Berlin, for which he had been
invited to construct a plan and in the establishment of which he took
a lively interest. During the last period of his life he devoted himself
to the development of his thoughts in systematic form and wrote a
number of books; most of these were published after his death, which
occurred January 27, 1814.

Among them we mention: General Outline of the Science of Knowledge, 1810 (trans. by Smith); The Facts
of Consciousness, 1813; Theory of the State, published 1820. The Complete Works, edited by his son, J. H. Fichte,
appeared 1843-46. New editions of particular works are now appearing. The world for Fichte is at
bottom a spiritual order, the revelation of a self-determining ego or reason; hence the science
of the ego, or reason, the Wissenschaftslehre, is the key to all
knowledge, and we can understand nature and man only when we have
caught the secret of the self-active ego.

Philosophy must, therefore, be Wissenschaftslehre, for in it all natural and
mental sciences find their ultimate roots; they can yield genuine
knowledge only when and in so far as they are based on the principles
of the Science of Knowledge-- mere empirical sciences having no real
cognitive value.

The ego-principle itself, however, without which there could be
no knowledge, cannot be grasped by the ordinary discursive understanding
with its spatial, temporal, and causal categories.

Kant is right: if we were limited to the scientific intellect, we could
never rise above the conception of a phenomenal order absolutely ruled
by the causal law.

But there is another source of knowledge: in an act of inner vision or intellectual intuition, which
is itself an act of freedom, we become conscious of the universal moral purpose; the law of duty or the categorical
imperative commands us to be free persons. We cannot refuse to accept
this law without abandoning ourselves as persons, without conceiving
ourselves as things, or mere products of nature; the choice of one's
philosophy interest was centred upon the ego; nature he regarded as
a product of the absolute ego in the individual consciousness, intended
as a necessary obstacle for the free will.

Without opposition the self cannot act; without overcoming resistance
it cannot become free. In order to make free action possible, to enable
the ego to realize its ends, nature can be understood only by the sympathetic
divining insight of the poetic genius.

And so, too, authority and tradition, as representing the instinctive and
historical side of social life, come into their own again. Fichte's
chief, therefore, depends upon what kind of man one is-- upon one's
values, upon one's will.

The type of man who is a slave of things, who cannot raise himself
out of the causal mechanism, who is not free, will never be able
to conceive himself otherwise than as a cog in a wheel. Fichte accepts the
ego, or spirit, as the ultimate and absolute principle, because it
alone can give our life worth and meaning.

Thus he grounds his entire philosophy upon a moral imperative which presents
itself to the ego in an inner vision. He also tells us that we can become
immediately aware of the pure activity of the ego, of our free action,
in a similar act of intellectual intuition.

But we cannot know this free act unless we perform it ourselves;
no one can understand the philosophy who is not free; hence philosophy begins
with an act of freedom-- im Anfang war die Tat. In order that we may
rise to free action, opposition is needed, and this we get in the spatial-temporal
world of phenomena, or nature, which the ego creates for itself in
order to have resistance to overcome.

Fichte conceives of nature as "the material of our duty," as the obstacle
against which the ego can exercise its freedom.

There could be no free action without something to act upon, and there
could be no purposive action without a world in which everything
happens according to law; and such a causal world we have in our
phenomenal order, which is the product of the absolute spiritual principle.

By the ego Fichte did not mean the subjective ego, the particular individual self with all its
idiosyncrasies, but the universal ego, the reason that manifests itself in all conscious individuals
as universal and necessary truth. In his earlier period he did not
define his thought very carefully, but in time the absolute ego came
to be conceived as the principle of all life and consciousness, as
universal life, and ultimately identified with God.

His philosophy is, therefore, not subjective idealism, although it
was so misinterpreted, but objective idealism; nature is not the creation
of the particular individual ego, but the phenomenal expression, or
reflection, in the subject of the universal spiritual principle.

Upon such an idealistic world-view Fichte based the ethical teachings through which he exercised a lasting
influence upon the German people and the history of human thought. The universal ego is a moral ego, an ego
with an ethical purpose, that realizes itself in nature and in man;
it is, therefore, the vocation of man to obey the voice of German culture.
They welcomed the Wissenschaftslehre as a valuable ally, and exaggerated
those features of it which seemed to chime with their own views.

  Harry was the only man she
had loved.  The others -

"She shrugged her shoulders.  But she prided herself on her loyalty to the successive partners
of her dismal adventures.  She had never played any tricks in her life.  She was a pal worth
having.  But men did get tired.  They did not understand women.  She supposed it had to be.

"Davidson was attempting a veiled warning as to Bamtz, but she interrupted him.  She knew what
men were.  She knew what this man was like.  But he had taken wonderfully to the kid.  And
Davidson desisted willingly, saying to himself that surely poor Laughing Anne could have no
illusions by this time.  She wrung his hand hard at parting.

"'It's for the kid, Davy--it's for the kid.  Isn't he a bright little chap?'

CHAPTER II

"All this happened about two years before the day when Davidson, sitting in this very room,
talked to my friend.  You will see presently how this room can get full.  Every seat'll be
occupied, and as you notice, the tables are set close, so that the backs of the chairs are
almost touching.  There is also a good deal of noisy talk here about one o'clock.

"I don't suppose Davidson was talking very loudly; but very likely he had to raise his voice
across the table to my friend.  And here accident, mere accident, put in its work by providing
a pair of fine ears close behind Davidson's chair.  It was ten to one against, the owner of
the same having enough change in his pockets to get his tiffin here.  But he had.  Most likely
had rooked somebody of a few dollars at cards overnight.  He was a bright creature of the name
of Fector, a spare, short, jumpy fellow with a red face and muddy eyes.  He described himself
as a journalist as certain kind of women give themselves out as actresses in the dock of a
police-court. 

And he goes on to suggest various analogies: a temple is more than a gathering of stones, a regiment
more than an accumulation of men: we do not love the soil of our
back garden, or the chalk of Kent, or the limestone of Yorkshire;
yet we love England, which is made up of these things.

So
God is more than the sum or essence of the nobler impulses of the race:
he is a spirit, a person, a friend, a great brother, a captain, a king:
he "is love and goodness" (p 80); and without him the Service of Man
is "no better than a hobby, a sentimentality or a hypocrisy"

(p. 95).

Let us reflect a little upon these analogies, and see whether they rest on any solid basis. Why
is a temple more than a heap of stones? because human intelligence
and skill have entered into the stones and organized them to serve
a given purpose or set of purposes: to delight the eye, to elevate
the mind, to express certain ideas, to afford shelter for worshippers
against wind, rain and sun.

Why is a regiment more than a mob? again because it has been deliberately and elaborately organized to fulfil
certain functions. Why is England more than the mere rocks of which it is composed?
because these materials have been grouped, partly by nature, but
very largely by the labor of untold generations of our fathers, into
forms which give pleasure to the eye and appeal to our most intimate
and cherished associations.

Besides, when we speak of "England," we do not think only or mainly of its physical aspects. We think
of it as a great community, with an ancient, and in some ways admirable,
tradition of political life, with a splendid record of achievement
in both material and spiritual things, with a great past, and (we hope)
a greater future. In all these cases the parts have been fused into
a whole by human effort, either consciously or instinctively applied;
and it is in virtue of this effort alone that the whole transcends
its parts.

But in the case of a God "synthetized" out of the thought and feeling of untold generations
of men, the analogy breaks down at every point. To assume that portions of psychic experience are capable
of vital coalescence, is to beg the whole question. We know that stone can be piled on stone, that
men can be trained to form a platoon, a cohort, a phalanx; but that
detached fragments of mind are capable of any sort of cohesion and
organization we do not know at all.

And, even if this point could be granted, where is the organizing
power? we should have to postulate another God to serve as the architect
or the drill-sergeant of our synthetic divinity. Nor would it help matters
to suggest that the God (as it were) crystallized himself; for that
is to assume structural potentialities in his component parts which must
have travel from somewhere, so that again we have to presuppose another
God.

It is true, no doubt, that portions of thought and feeling can be collected, arranged, edited, in some sense
organized, by human effort; but the result is an encyclopædia, a thesaurus,
an anthology, a liturgy, a bible-- not a God. It may, like the Vedas,
the hebrew Scriptures and the Koran, become an object of idolatry;
but even its idolaters see in it only an emanation from God, not the
God himself.

All this argument may strike the reader as extremely nebulous, but i submit that the fault is
not mine. It was not i who sought to demonstrate the reality of a figure
of speech by placing it on all fours with a cathedral and a regiment.
The whole contention is so baffling that reason staggers and flounders as
in a quicksand.

It rests
upon a mixture of categories, as palpable and yet as elusive as anything in the Hunting of the Snark.
If you tell me that public Opinion is a God, i am quite willing
to consider whether the metaphor is a luminous and helpful one.

But if you protest that it is no metaphor at all, but a literal statement of
fact, like the statement that Mr. Woodrow Wilson is President of the
united States, i no longer know where we are.

Mr. Wells's "undying human memory and increasing human will" cannot
exactly be identified with public Opinion, but it belongs to the
same order of ideas.

Here there is an actual workable analogy. But there is no practicable
analogy between a purely mental concept and a physical construction.

You will not help me
to believe in (say) the doctrine of Original Sin, by assuring me that
it is built, like the Tower Bridge, on the cantilever principle. It is
quite certain that, if passionate conviction and the free use of
anthropomorphic language can make a figure of speech a God, the invisible
King is an individual entity, as detached from Mr. Wells as Michelangelo's
Moses from Michelangelo.

Paradoxically enough, he has put on "individuation" that his worshippers may
escape from it.

Mr. Wells's book teems with expressions-- I have given many examples of them-- which are wholly inapplicable
to any metaphor, however galvanized into a semblance of life by ecstatic
contemplation in the devotional mind.

For example, when we are told that it is doubtful whether "God knows
all, or much more than we do, about the ultimate Being," the mere assertion
of a doubt implies the possibility of knowledge of a quite different
order from any that exists in the human intelligence. Mr. Wells explicitly
assures us that knowledge of the veiled Being is (for the present
at any rate) inaccessible to our faculties; but he implies that such
knowledge may be possessed by the invisible King; and as knowledge
cannot possibly be a synthesis of ignorances, it follows that the
invisible King has powers of apprehension quite different from, and
independent of, any operation of the human brain.

These powers may not, as a matter of fact, have solved the enigma of existence;
but it is clearly implied that they might conceivably do so; and indeed the
text positively asserts that God knows something more of the veiled
Being than we do, though perhaps not "much." in view of this passage,
and many others of a like nature, we cannot fall back on the theory
that Mr. Wells is merely trying, by dint of highly imaginative writing,
to infuse life into a deliberate personification, like Robespierre's
Goddess of Reason or Matthew Arnold's Zeitgeist.

However difficult it may be, we must accustom ourselves to the belief
that his assertions of the personal existence of his God represent
the efficient element in his thought, and that if other passages seem
inconsistent with that idea-- seem to point to mere abstraction or
allegorization of the mind of the race-- it is these passages, and
not the more full-blooded pronouncements, that must be cancelled as
misleading or inadequate.

There can be no doubt that the God to whom Mr. Wells seeks to convert us is (in his apostle's conception)
much more of a President Wilson than of a zeitgeist.***** It would be
possible, of course, for a God, however dubious and even inconceivable
the method of his "synthesis," to manifest himself in his effects--
to prove his existence by his actions.

But this, as we have seen, the invisible King scorns to do. His adherents, we are told, "advance no
proof whatever of the existence of God but their realization of
him" (p. 98). There is a sort of implication that the Deity will not
descend to vulgar miracle-working.

"an evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it"-- not such "the
sign of Jonah the prophet." but to ask for some sort of visible or plausibly
conjecturable effect is not at all the same thing as to ask for miracles.
Mr. Wells proclaims with all his might that the invisible King works the most
marvellous and beneficent changes in the minds of his devotees; why,
then, do these changes produce no recognizable effect on the course
of events? the God who can work upon the human mind has the key to
the situation in his hands-- why, then, does he make such scant use
of it? is God only a luxury for the intellectually wealthy? the champagne
of the spiritual life? a stimulant and anodyne highly appreciated
in the best circles, but inaccessible to the man of small spiritual
means, whether he be a dweller in palaces or in the slums? to say
that a given Power can and does potently affect the human mind, and
yet cannot, or at least does not, produce any appreciable or demonstrable
effect on the external aspects of human life, is like asking us to
believe that a man is a heaven-born conductor who can get nothing
out of his orchestra but discords and cacophonies.

Mr. Wells may perhaps answer that his God does recognizably influence the course of events-- indeed, that
everything in history which we see to be good and desirable is the work of the invisible King-- but that
he does not advance this fact as a proof of God's existence, because
it is discernible merely to the eye of faith and cannot be brought
home to unregenerate reason.

I
do not imagine that he will take this line, for it would come dangerously
near to identifying God with Providence-- a heresy which he abhors. But
supposing some other adept in "modern religion" were to make this claim
on behalf of the invisible King, would it go any way towards persuading
us that we owe him our allegiance? the assumption would be, as i understand
it, that of a finite God, unable to modify the operations of matter,
but with an unlimited, or at any rate a very great, power of influencing
the workings of the human mind.

He would have no control over meteoric conditions: he could not "ride in the whirlwind and direct
the storm"; he could not subdue the earthquake or prevent the Greenland
glacier from "calving" icebergs into the Atlantic. He could not release
the human body from the rhythms of growth and decay; he could not
eradicate that root of all evil, the association of consciousness with a
mechanism requiring to be constantly stoked with a particular sort
of fuel which exists only in limited quantities.

If God could arrange for life to be maintained on a diet of inorganic
substances-- if he could enable animals, like plants, to go direct
to minerals and gases for their sustenance, instead of having it,
so to speak, half-digested in the vegetable kingdom-- or even if,
under the present system, he could make fecundity, in any given species,
automatically proportionate to the supply of food-- he would at one
stroke refashion earthly life in an extremely desirable sense.

But this we assume to be beyond his competence: the veiled Being
has autocratically imposed the struggle for existence as an inexorable
condition of the unseeable King's activities, except in so far as
it can be eluded by and through the human intelligence.

His problem, then, will be to guide the minds of men towards a realization
that their higher destiny lies in using their intelligence to substitute
ordered co-operation for the sanguinary competition above which merely
instinctive organism are incapable of rising.

Observe that in exercising this power of psychical influence there would be no sort of miracle-working,
no interference with the order of nature. The influence of mind
upon mind, even without the intervention of words or other symbols,
is a part of the order of nature which no one to-day dreams of questioning.

Hypnotic suggestion is a department of orthodox medical practice, and telepathy is more and more widely
admitted, if only as a refuge from the hypothesis of survival after
death.

If, then, we have a divine mind applying itself to the problems of humanity,
and capable of suggesting ideas to the mind of man-- appealing, as
a "still small voice"

(p. 18), to his intelligence, his emotions and his will-- one cannot
but figure its power for good as almost illimitable. What is to prevent
it from achieving a very rapid elimination of the ape and the tiger,
the Junker and the tory, and substituting social enthusiasms for
individual passions as the motive-power of human conduct? we may admit
that the brain of man must first be developed up to a certain point
before divine suggestion could effectively work upon it.

But we know that men and races of magnificent brainpower must have existed on the planet thousands and
thousands of years ago. What, then, has the invisible King made of his opportunities? frankly, he
has made a terrible hash of them. It is hard to see how the progress of the race could possibly have
been slower, more laborious, more painful than in fact it has been. No
doubt there have been a few splendid spurts, which we may, if we
please, trace to the genial goading of the invisible King.

But all the great movements have dribbled away into frustration and impotence. There was, for example,
the glorious intellectual efflorescence of Greece. There, you may say, the invisible King was
almost visibly at work. But, after all, what a flash-in-the-pan it was! Hellas was a little island of light
surrounded by gloomy immensities of barbarism; yet, instead of stablishing
and fortifying a political cosmos, its leading men had nothing better
to do than to plunge into the bloody chaos of the peloponnesian War,
and set back the clock of civilization by untold centuries.

What was the invisible King about when that catastrophe happened? similarly,
the past two centuries, and especially the past seventy-five years,
have witnessed a marvellous onrush in man's intellectual apprehension
of the universe and mastery over the latent energies of matter. But
because moral and political development has lagged hopelessly behind material
progress, the world is plunged into a war of unexampled magnitude
and almost unexampled fury, wherein the heights of the air and depths
of the sea are pressed into the service of slaughter.

Where was the invisible King in July, 1914? and, for that matter, what has
he has been doing since July, 1870? "either he was musing, or he was on
a journey, or peradventure he slept." truly it would seem that he
might have advised Mr. Wells to wait for the "cease fire!" before
proclaiming his godhead.

Of course Mr. Wells will remind me that he claims for him no material
potency; and i must own that no happier moment could have been chosen
for the annunciation of an impotent Deity. But the plea does not
quite tally with the facts.

In the first place (as we have seen) the invisible King is going to do things--
he is going to do very remarkable things as soon as he knows how. And in the
second place it is impossible to conceive that the tremendous psychical
influence which is claimed for this God can be exercised without
producing external reactions.

Why, he is actually stated to be-- like another God, his near relative,
whom he rather unkindly disowns-- he is stated to be "the light of the
world" (p. 18). Is there any meaning in such a statement if it be not
pertinent to ask what sort of light has led the world into the ghastly
quagmire in which it is to-day agonizing? the truth is that Mr. Wells
attributes to his God powers which, even if he had no greater knowledge
than Mr. Wells himself possesses, could be used to epoch-making advantage.

Fancy an omnipresent H. G. Wells, able to speak in a still small voice
to all men of good-will throughout the world! what a marvellous revolution
might he not effect! Mr. Wells himself has outlined such a revolution
in one of his most thoughtful romances, in the Days of the Comet. From
the fact that it does not occur, may we not fairly suspect that the
invisible King is a creation of the same mythopoeic faculty which
engendered the wonder-working comet with its aura of sweet-reasonableness?
if we turn to Mr. Britling, we find that that eminent publicist was
distressed by a sense of the difficulty of conveying God's message
to the world; only he modestly attributed it to defects in his own
equipment rather than to powerlessness on the part of God.

I cannot but think that the poet got nearer the heart of the matter
who wrote:-- was Moses upon Sinai taught how Sinai's mighty ribs were
wrought? did Buddha,'neath the bo-tree's shade, learn how the stars
were poised and swayed? did Jesus still pain's raging storm, and
dower the world with chloroform? or Mahomet a jehad decree'gainst
microbe-harboring gnat and flea? has revelation e'er revealed aught
from its age and hour concealed? or miracle, since time began, conferred
a single boon on Man? truly, we may agree with Mr. Wells that the
invisible King was probably not in the secrets of the clear, convincing,
compulsive message from God; always, or at any rate for many thousands
of years, there have been men who seemed the predestined mouthpieces
of such a message; always what purported to be the word of God has
proved to be either powerless to make itself heard, or powerful only
to the begetting of hideous moral and social corruptions.

God spoke (it is said) through the vedic rishis, the sages of the Himalayas--
and the result has been caste, cow-worship, suttee, abominations of asceticism,
and nameless orgies of sensuality. God spoke through Moses, and the result
was-- Judaism!

God spoke through Jesus, and the result was Arianism and Athanasianism,
the Papacy, the holy Office, the thirty Years'War, massacres beyond
computation, and the slowly calcined flesh of an innumerable army
of martyrs.

All this, no doubt, was due to gross and palpable misunderstanding
of the message delivered through Jesus; but since it was so fatally
open to misunderstanding, would it not better have remained undelivered?
could the world have been appreciably worse off without it? the question
is rather an idle one, since it turns on "might have beens." that
the element of good in the message of Jesus has been to some extent
efficient, no one would deny.

But the alloy of potential evil has made itself so overpoweringly
actual that to strike a balance between the two forces is impossible,
and the question is generally decided by throwing a solid chunk of
prejudice into one scale or the other.

There has never been a time when a really well-informed revelation,
uttered with charm and power, might not have revolutionized the world. "a
well-informed revelation!" the reader may cry: "what terrible bathos!"

Mr. Wells, moreover, speaks slightingly of revelation (pp. 19, 163)
in a tone that seems to imply that "modern religion" would have nothing
to do with it even if it could.

But the demand for a revelation is eminently reasonable and justified;
and the only trouble about the historic revelations is that they have all
been so shockingly ill-informed, and have revealed nothing to the
purpose.

Robert Louis Stevenson anticipated Mr. Wells's view of the matter
when he wrote ironically:-- It's a simple thing that i demand, though
humble as can be-- A statement fair in my Maker's hand to a gentleman
like me-- A clean account, writ fair and broad, and a plain apologee--
or deevil a ceevil word to God from a gentleman like me.

But why this irony? what an infinity of trouble and pain would have
been saved if such a "clean account, writ fair and broad," had been
vouchsafed, and had been found to tally with the facts! nor have the
reputedly wise and good of this world seen any presumption in desiring
such a communiqué.

Most of them thought they had received it, and many wasted half their
lives in attempting to reconcile new knowledge with old ignorance,
promulgated under the guarantee of God.

We read on page 427:-- "never had it been so plain to Mr. Britling
that he was a weak, silly, ill-informed and hasty-minded writer, and
never had he felt so invincible a conviction that the Spirit of Deity
was in him, and that it fell to him to take some part in the establishment
of a new order of living upon the earth.... always he seemed to be
on the verge of some illuminating and beautiful statement of his cause;
always he was finding his writing inadequate, a thin treachery to
the impulse of his heart." have we not in even an experience an irrefutable
proof of the inefficacy of Mr. Britling's God? always the world has
been all ears for a veiled Being, else he could scarcely have kept
them so successfully.

But have we any use for a God who can teach us nothing? who has to
be taught by us before he can do anything worth mentioning? the old
Gods who professed to teach were much more rational in theory, if
only their teaching had not been all wrong.

Man
has built up his knowledge of the universe he lives in by slow, laborious degrees, not helped,
but constantly and cruelly hindered, by his Gods.

Yet Mr. Wells will surely not deny that an approximately true conception of the process of nature, and
of his own origin and history, was an indispensable basis for all right
and lasting social construction. What colossal harm has been wrought,
for instance, by the fairy-tale of the Fall, and all its theological
consequences! yet, age after age, the invisible King did nothing to
shake its calamitous prestige.

Of late it is true that the progress of knowledge has seemed no longer
slow, but amazingly rapid; but that is because the amount of energy
devoted to it has been multiplied a hundredfold. Each new step is still
a very short one: it is generally found that several investigators
have independently arrived at the verge of a new discovery, and it
is often a matter of chance which of them first crosses the line and
is lucky enough to associate his name with the completed achievement.

  The stillness
of the black universe wearied him.  There was not even the lapping of the water to keep him
company, for the tide was out and the Sissie was lying on soft mud.  Suddenly in the breathless,
soundless, hot night an argus pheasant screamed in the woods across the stream.  Davidson started
violently, all his senses on the alert at once.

"The candle was still burning in the house.  Everything was quiet again, but Davidson felt
drowsy no longer.  An uneasy premonition of evil oppressed him.

"'Surely I am not afraid,' he argued with himself.

"The silence was like a seal on his ears, and his nervous inward impatience grew intolerable.
He commanded himself to keep still. But all the same he was just going to jump out of the boat
when a faint ripple on the immensity of silence, a mere tremor in the air, the ghost of a silvery
laugh, reached his ears.

"Illusion!

"He kept very still.  He had no difficulty now in emulating the stillness of the mouse--a grimly
determined mouse.  But he could not shake off that premonition of evil unrelated to the mere
danger of the situation.  Nothing happened.  It had been an illusion!

"A curiosity came to him to learn how they would go to work.  He wondered and wondered, till
the whole thing seemed more absurd than ever.

"He had left the hanging lamp in the cabin burning as usual.  It was part of his plan that
everything should be as usual.  Suddenly in the dim glow of the skylight panes a bulky shadow
came up the ladder without a sound, made two steps towards the hammock (it hung right over
the skylight), and stood motionless.  The Frenchman!

"The minutes began to slip away.  Davidson guessed that the Frenchman's part (the poor cripple)
was to watch his (Davidson's) slumbers while the others were no doubt in the cabin busy forcing
off the lazarette hatch.

"What was the course they meant to pursue once they got hold of the silver (there were ten
cases, and each could be carried easily by two men) nobody can tell now.  But so far, Davidson
was right. They were in the cabin.  He expected to hear the sounds of breaking-in every moment.
But the fact was that one of them (perhaps Fector, who had stolen papers out of desks in his
time) knew how to pick a lock, and apparently was provided with the tools.  Thus while Davidson
expected every moment to hear them begin down there, they had the bar off already and two cases
actually up in the cabin out of the lazarette.

"In the diffused faint glow of the skylight the Frenchman moved no more than a statue.  Davidson
could have shot him with the greatest ease--but he was not homicidally inclined.  Moreover,
he wanted to make sure before opening fire that the others had gone to work. Not hearing the
sounds he expected to hear, he felt uncertain whether they all were on board yet.

"While he listened, the Frenchman, whose immobility might have but cloaked an internal struggle;
moved forward a pace, then another. Davidson, entranced, watched him advance one leg, withdraw
his right stump, the armed one, out of his pocket, and swinging his body to put greater force
into the blow, bring the seven-pound weight down on the hammock where the head of the sleeper
ought to have been.

"Davidson admitted to me that his hair stirred at the roots then. But for Anne, his unsuspecting
head would have been there.  The Frenchman's surprise must have been simply overwhelming. 
He staggered away from the lightly swinging hammock, and before Davidson could make a movement
he had vanished, bounding down the ladder to warn and alarm the other fellows.

"Davidson sprang instantly out of the boat, threw up the skylight flap, and had a glimpse of
the men down there crouching round the hatch.  They looked up scared, and at that moment the
Frenchman outside the door bellowed out 'Trahison--trahison!'  They bolted out of the cabin,
falling over each other and swearing awfully. The shot Davidson let off down the skylight had
hit no one; but he ran to the edge of the cabin-top and at once opened fire at the dark shapes
rushing about the deck.  These shots were returned, and a rapid fusillade burst out, reports
and flashes, Davidson dodging behind a ventilator and pulling the trigger till his revolver
clicked, and then throwing it down to take the other in his right hand.

"He had been hearing in the din the Frenchman's infuriated yells 'Tuez-le! tuez-le!' above
the fierce cursing of the others.  But though they fired at him they were only thinking of
clearing out. In the flashes of the last shots Davidson saw them scrambling over the rail.
That he had hit more than one he was certain.  Two different voices had cried out in pain.
But apparently none of them were disabled.

"Davidson leaned against the bulwark reloading his revolver without haste.  He had not the
slightest apprehension of their coming back. On the other hand, he had no intention of pursuing
them on shore in the dark.  What they were doing he had no idea.  Looking to their hurts probably.
Not very far from the bank the invisible Frenchman was blaspheming and cursing his associates,
his luck, and all the world.  He ceased; then with a sudden, vengeful yell, 'It's that woman!--it's
that woman that has sold us,' was heard running off in the night.

"Davidson caught his breath in a sudden pang of remorse.  He perceived with dismay that the
stratagem of his defence had given Anne away.  He did not hesitate a moment.  It was for him
to save her now.  He leaped ashore.  But even as he landed on the wharf he heard a shrill shriek
which pierced his very soul.

"The light was still burning in the house.  Davidson, revolver in hand, was making for it when
another shriek, away to his left, made him change his direction.

"He changed his direction--but very soon he stopped.  It was then that he hesitated in cruel
perplexity.  He guessed what had happened.  The woman had managed to escape from the house
in some way, and now was being chased in the open by the infuriated Frenchman.  He trusted
she would try to run on board for protection.

"All was still around Davidson.  Whether she had run on board or not, this silence meant that
the Frenchman had lost her in the dark.

"Davidson, relieved, but still very anxious, turned towards the river-side.  He had not made
two steps in that direction when another shriek burst out behind him, again close to the house.

"He thinks that the Frenchman had lost sight of the poor woman right enough.  Then came that
period of silence.  But the horrible ruffian had not given up his murderous purpose.  He reasoned
that she would try to steal back to her child, and went to lie in wait for her near the house.

"It must have been something like that.  As she entered the light falling about the house-ladder,
he had rushed at her too soon, impatient for vengeance.  She had let out that second scream
of mortal fear when she caught sight of him, and turned to run for life again.

"This time she was making for the river, but not in a straight line.  Her shrieks circled about
Davidson.  He turned on his heels, following the horrible trail of sound in the darkness. 
He wanted to shout 'This way, Anne!  I am here!' but he couldn't.  At the horror of this chase,
more ghastly in his imagination than if he could have seen it, the perspiration broke out on
his forehead, while his throat was as dry as tinder.  A last supreme scream was cut short suddenly.

"The silence which ensued was even more dreadful.  Davidson felt sick.  He tore his feet from
the spot and walked straight before him, gripping the revolver and peering into the obscurity
fearfully.  Suddenly a bulky shape sprang from the ground within a few yards of him and bounded
away.  Instinctively he fired at it, started to run in pursuit, and stumbled against something
soft which threw him down headlong.

"Even as he pitched forward on his head he knew it could be nothing else but Laughing Anne's
body.  He picked himself up and, remaining on his knees, tried to lift her in his arms.  He
felt her so limp that he gave it up.  She was lying on her face, her long hair scattered on
the ground.  Some of it was wet.  Davidson, feeling about her head, came to a place where the
crushed bone gave way under his fingers.  But even before that discovery he knew that she was
dead.  The pursuing Frenchman had flung her down with a kick from behind, and, squatting on
her back, was battering in her skull with the weight she herself had fastened to his stump,
when the totally unexpected Davidson loomed up in the night and scared him away.

"Davidson, kneeling by the side of that woman done so miserably to death, was overcome by remorse.
She had died for him.  His manhood was as if stunned.  For the first time he felt afraid. Let us
not make any mistake concerning these; they are exceptions to the
sodomy; the revelations of many Divorce Court concerning the condition
of what is called national nobility would, and upper classes, as well
as the unclean spirit which attaches to "society papers," has revealed
a condition which is widely diffused.-- good men have indeed lamented
an pernicious influence of a depraved and perverted literature.

Brothels
are recruited from this more than any other source. The stimulation of the emotional nature, the
instilling of sentimental ideas into the minds of the young, has a tendency
to turn the thoughts into a channel which leads in the direction
of the formation of vicious habits.

5. A search such trunks of convicted criminals are thus sure to find in them one of more of these works;
and few prisoners who can read at all fail to enumerate among the causes which led them into
crime the unhealthy stimulus of this depraved and poisonous literature.***** startling SINS. They are
simply the devil's decoys.

You have only almost to look into the faces of these men to see that their countenances, eyes, and speech betray
them. Idleness is their curse, their opportunity for sin; you may know them as the loungers over refreshment-bars,
as the retailers of the latest filthy joke, or as the vendors of some disgusting scandal; systematically,
it is appalling the number of these lepers found both in our business and social circles.***** poisonous
LITERATURE and bad PICTURES. Thousands of elevator boys, clerks, students,
traveling men, and others, patronize the questionable literature counter to
exaggerating the alarming extent. It weakens the moral ingenious harlot
draws in the victims like the heavily weighted lodestone; these appearance
of health in them is but the grossness of sensuality. 6. IMPRESSIONS
left by READING questionable LITERATURE.-- It is painful to see strong
intelligent men and youths reading bad books, or feasting their eyes
on filthy pictures, for the practice is sure to affect their personal
purity.

But the literature has never been widely thus and perfectly diffused
as at the present case.

1. Carefully disgusting.

The DEVIL'S
decoys.-- some may be ready to affirm that physical and moral penalties do not appear to overtake
all men; that many men known to be given to intemperance and sensuality
are strong, well, and live to those good age.

9. This is owing to two causes, its cheapness and the facility of conveyance.
8. When the devil determines to take charge of the young soul, be often employs
a very forces of the young, and they thereby fall an easy prey before
the subtle schemes of the libertine.

1. Public taste may demand it. And it is for this that tens of thousands of strong men in our large
cities are selling their birthright. The nude in ART.-- for years there has
been a great craze after a nude in art, and the realistic in literature.

11. 4. Inflame the PASSIONS.-- these very large proportion in the darkest
works ever put in circulation are of the worst character, tending
to corrupt the principles, to inflame the passions, to excite impure
desire, and spread a take over all the powers of the soul.

Bad BOOKS.-- bad books play not a small part in the corruption of
the youth.

Impressions will be left which cannot fail to breed a legion of impure
thoughts, and in many instances criminal deeds.

Moral FORCES.-- the world is full of such literature.

Obscene LITERATURE.-- no other source contributes so much to sexual
immorality as obscene literature.

It is easily accessible, for it is cheap, and the young will procure it, and therefore become
easy prey to its baneful influence and effects. He slyly hands a little novel filled with "voluptuous
forms," "reclining on bosoms," "languishing eyes," etc. 2. 12. Sentimental
LITERATURE of LOW FICTION.-- sentimental literature, whether impure in
its subject matter or not, has the direct tendency in the direction
of impurity.

3. The art galleries abound in pictures and statuary which cannot fail
to fan the fires of sensualism, unless the thoughts of the visitor are
trained to the purity. 10. Why should artists and sculptors persist
in shocking the finer sensibilities of old and young of both sexes
by herd upon their view representations of naked human forms in attitudes
of luxurious abandon?

GROSSNESS of SENSUALITY.-- a poor degraded method. Nameless CRIMES.-- the nameless crimes identified with
the hushed-up sodomite cases; the revolting condition of a school
of Rule; a men are found in large numbers throughout the entire community;
they would make fine men were they not charged with the grossness
of sensuality; as it is, they frequent the race-course, the card-table,
the drinking-saloon, the music-hall, and the low theaters, which abound
in our cities and towns; the great majority of the are men of means
and leisure.

7. But let
those who have the power endeavor to reform public taste. The mass of stories
published in the great weeklies and the cheap novels are mischievous.

  He was
only startled and disappointed at the air of cold surprise and the suspicious look with which
she received his imperfect tale.  But she did not say much.  She never had much to say.  She
was a fool of the silent, hopeless kind.

"What story Davidson's crew thought fit to set afloat in Malay town is neither here nor there.
Davidson himself took some of his friends into his confidence, besides giving the full story
officially to the Harbour Master.

"The Harbour Master was considerably astonished.  He didn't think, however, that a formal complaint
should be made to the Dutch Government.  They would probably do nothing in the end, after a
lot of trouble and correspondence. How is an oath administered in court? what persons may not serve
as witnesses?

Name some things "exempt from execution" in this state.

Again, the circumstances being different, the regulations must be
different in this part of the town.

If he can guarantee this by bail he is set at liberty, otherwise he
is confined in jail.

The nearness of the houses to each other renders it necessary to take
special precautions for the prevention of fires, and for their extinguishment
in case they break out.

Practical Work. What is to hinder a bitter enemy of yours, if you
have one, from having you committed to prison.

But to provide and maintain all these things takes money, and the
people living in the other parts of the town not sharing the benefits
would hardly like to help pay for them.

The distances traveled being short, people go about principally on
foot; hence the need of sidewalks. To reduce the danger of going about
after dark, street-lamps are needed. If a criminal should make confession
of the crime to his lawyer, could the lawyer be subpoenaed as a witness
on the trial? to make each homestead civil, streets are laid out.

Hence it is but just that the people living in the thickly settled portion
of the town should be permitted to separate from the rest and form
an organization by themselves.

Living in a limited area, the amount of land occupied by each family
is small, and the territory is surveyed into lots and blocks.

Why are there two justices in each town? the incorporated VILLAGE. (see
p. 231.) pertinent Questions.

Are the justices and constables town, county or state officers? how is
it known at the county seat who the justices and constables in each
town are? define docket, summons, warrant, pleading, subpoena, crime,
felony, misdemeanor, venire, costs, execution, recognizance.

Need of.-- owing to conditions, natural and artificial, favorable
to business enterprises, people group together in certain places.

What is meant by "change of venue?" can a accessible suit proceed
in the absence of the defendant? assume that John Smith bought from
reuben White a cow, the price agreed upon being$ 30; that Smith refuses
to pay, and white sues him.

Write up all the papers in the case, make proper entries in the docket,
assessing costs, etc. CHAPTER iv

.


"She didn't say yes or no.  All she said was, 'Send that brat away at once.'

"'I can't throw him out into the street,' cried Davidson.  'You don't mean it.'

"'I don't care.  There are charitable institutions for such children, I suppose.'

"'That I will never do,' said Davidson.

"'Very well.  That's enough for me.'

"Davidson's home after this was like a silent, frozen hell for him. A stupid woman with a sense
of grievance is worse than an unchained devil. He seeks dark places and apparently prefers to be by himself.

In this
stage of the disease the dog'mho appetite is good and may be excessive;
he responds to orders although his attention can be attracted only
for a moment at a time.

As the malady progresses the animal becomes more and more marked, and
develops a desire to tear those things about him into pieces.

There is described the then bark at this stage of the disease; instead
of ending as it ordinarily does, it is prolonged and terminates in a higher
pitched note simulating a cry.

This is supposed to be very characteristic at this stage of the affection. A appetency generally
develops, beginning in the hind legs and soon involving the body.
If the animal be now carefully observed it will be understand that
he swallow swallow.

There is no dread of water, as the name "hydrophobia" implies, and
as is commonly comforted, the animal often attempting to drink, but owing
to the paralysis of the muscles of the disease paralysis gradually diminishes,
food is refused, and swallowing becomes difficult.

As the symptoms gradually progress the dog shows signs of delirium and begins
to wander. As a rule, he goes about with his tail hung, mouth wide
entire, and with a wild look in his eyes, biting as he goes, anything
that occur to be finally in his path; seldom does he turn aside to
disturb anything or anybody.

In the later stages of the throat this is impossible. Inability restless
to cannot either water or liquid food is one of the surest and most
reliable signs of rabies. Weakness becomes very peculiar, and the
beast directly lies down in a stupor and dies.

The open
course of this type may last from six to ten days; generally it is
four or five.

The paralytic type of the disease occurs in fifteen or twenty per cent. Of
the cases. The onset is, as a rule, the same as that observed in the furious
type

.
  They tell him he
has a special disposition for mission work, too.  So Laughing Anne's boy will lead a saintly
life in China somewhere; he may even become a martyr; but poor Davidson is left out in the
cold.  He will have to go downhill without a single human affection near him because of these
old dollars."

Jan. 1914

Footnotes:

{1}  The gallows, supposed to be widowed of the last executed criminal and waiting for another.

