     Here, verdure starts up as we scratch the ground,
     Who owns it, strips it into pieces round;
     Beneath our sun there's nought but gayest sound.
     You tell me, true, that in your Paris hot-house,
     You ripen two months sooner 'neath your glass, of course.
     What is your fruit? Mostly of water clear,
     The heat may redden what your tendrils bear.
     But, lady dear, you cannot live on fruits alone while here!
     Now slip away your glossy glove
     And pluck that ripened peach above,
     Then place it in your pearly mouth
     And suck it--how it 'lays your drouth--
     Melts in your lips like honey of the South!

     Dear Madame, in the North you have great sights--
     Of churches, castles, theatres of greatest heights;
     Your works of art are greater far than here.
     But come and see, quite near
     The banks of the Garonne, on a sweet summer's day,
     All works of God! and then you'll say
     No place more beautiful and gay!
     You see the rocks in all their velvet greenery;
     The plains are always gold; and mossy very,
     The valleys, where we breathe the healthy air,
     And where we walk on beds of flowers most fair!

     The country round your Paris has its flowers and greensward,
     But 'tis too grand a dame for me, it is too dull and sad.
     Here, thousand houses smile along the river's stream;
     Our sky is bright, it laughs aloud from morn to e'en.
     Since month of May, when brightest weather bounds
     For six months, music through the air resounds--
     A thousand nightingales the shepherd's ears delight:
     All sing of Love--Love which is new and bright.
     Your Opera, surprised, would silent hearken,
     When day for night has drawn aside its curtain,
     Under our heavens, which very soon comes glowing.
     Listen, good God! our concert is beginning!
     What notes! what raptures?  Listen, shepherd-swains,
     One chaunt is for the hill-side, the other's for the plains.

     "Those lofty mountains
     Far up above,
     I cannot see
     All that I love;
     Move lower, mountains,
     Plains, up-move,
     That I may see
     All that I love."{2}

     And thousand voices sound through Heaven's alcove,
     Coming across the skies so blue,
     Making the angels smile above--
     The earth embalms the songsters true;
     The nightingales, from tree to flower,
     Sing louder, fuller, stronger.
     'Tis all so sweet, though no one beats the measure,
     To hear it all while concerts last--such pleasure!
     Indeed my vineyard's but a seat of honour,
     For, from my hillock, shadowed by my bower,
     I look upon the fields of Agen, the valley of Verone.{3}
     How happy am I 'mongst my vines!  Such pleasures there are none.

     For here I am the poet-dresser, working for the wines.
     I only think of propping up my arbours and my vines;
     Upon the road I pick the little stones--
     And take them to my vineyard to set them up in cones,
     And thus I make a little house with but a sheltered door--
     As each friend, in his turn, now helps to make the store.
     And then there comes the vintage--the ground is firm and fast,
     With all my friends, with wallets or with baskets cast,
     We then proceed to gather up the fertile grapes at last.

     Oh! my young vine,
     The sun's bright shine
     Hath ripened thee
     All--all for me!
     No drizzling showers
     Have spoilt the hours.
     My muse can't borrow;
     My friends, to-morrow
     Cannot me lend;
     But thee, young friend,
     Grapes nicely drest,
     With figs the finest
     And raisins gather
     Bind them together!
     Th' abundant season
     Will still us bring
     A glorious harvesting;
     Close up thy hands with bravery
     Upon the luscious grapery!

     Now all push forth their tendrils; though not past remedy,
     At th' hour when I am here, my faithful memory
     Comes crowding back; my oldest friends
     Now make me young again--for pleasure binds
     Me to their hearts and minds.
     But now the curtained night comes on again.

     I see, the meadows sweet around,
     My little island, midst the varying ground,
     Where I have often laughed, and sometimes I have groaned.

     I see far off the leafy woodland,
     Or near the fountain, where I've; often dreamed;
     Long time ago there was a famous man{4}
     Who gave its fame to Agen.
     I who but write these verses slight
     Midst thoughts of memory bright.

     But I will tell you all--in front, to left, to right,
     More than a hedgerow thick that I have brought the light,
     More than an apple-tree that I have trimmed,
     More than an old vine-stalk that I have thinned
     To ripen lovely Muscat.
     Madame, you see that I look back upon my past,
     Without a blush at last;
     What would you?  That I gave my vineyard back--
     And that with usury?  Alack!
     And yet unto my garden I've no door--
     Two thorns are all my fence--no more!
     When the marauders come, and through a hole I see their nose,
     Instead of taking up a stick to give them blows,
     I turn aside; perhaps they never may return, the horde!
     He who young robs, when older lets himself be robbed!

Endnotes to MY VINEYARD.

{1} Jasmin purchased a little piece of ground, which he dedicated to his "Curl-papers" (Papilhoto),
on the road to Scaliger's villa, and addressed the above lines to his lady-admirer in Paris,
Madame Louis veill.

{2} From a popular song by Gaston Phebus.

{3} Referring to Verona, the villa of Scaliger, the great scholar.

{4} Scaliger.

FRANCONNETTE.

FIRST PART.

   Blaise de Montluc--Festival at Roquefort--The Prettiest
   Maiden--The Soldier and the Shepherds--Kissing and Panting--
   Courage of Pascal--Fury of Marcel--Terrible Contest.

   'Twas at the time when Blaise the murderous
   Struck heavy blows by force of arms.
   He hewed the Protestants to pieces,
   And, in the name of God the Merciful,
   Flooded the earth with sorrow, blood, and tears.

   Alas! 'twas pitiful--far worse beyond the hills,
   Where flashing gun and culverin were heard;
   There the unhappy bore their heavy cross,
   And suffered, more than elsewhere, agonising pain,
   Were killed and strangled, tumbled into wells;
   'Tween Penne and Fumel the saddened earth was gorged.
   Men, women, children, murdered everywhere,
   The hangman even stopped for breath;
   While Blaise, with heart of steel, dismounted at the gate
   Of his strong castle wall,
   With triple bridge and triple fosse;
   Then kneeling, made his pious prayers,
   Taking the Holy Sacrament,
   His hands yet dripping with fraternal blood!{1}

   Now every shepherd, every shepherd lass,
   At the word Huguenot shuddered with affright,
   Even 'midst their laughing courtship.
   And yet it came to pass
   That in a hamlet, 'neath a castled height,
   One Sunday, when a troop of sweethearts danced
   Upon the day of Roquefort fete,
   And to a fife the praises sang
   Of Saint James and the August weather--
   That bounteous month which year by year,
   Through dew-fall of the evening bright,
   And heat of Autumn noons doth bring
   Both grapes and figs to ripening.

   It was the finest fete that eyes had ever seen
   Under the shadow of the leafy parasol,
   Where aye the country-folk convene.
   O'erflowing were the spaces all,
   From cliff, from dale, from every home
   Of Montagnac and Sainte-Colombe,
   Still they do come,
   Too many far to number;
   More, ever more, while flames the sunshine o'er,
   There's room for all, their coming will not cumber,
   The fields shall be their chamber, and the little hillocks green
   The couches of their slumber.

   What pleasure! what delight! the sun now fills the air;
   The sweetest thing in life
   Is the music of the fife
   And the dancing of the fair.
   You see their baskets emptying
   Of waffles all home-made.
   They quaff the nectar sparkling
   Of freshest lemonade.
   What crowds at Punchinello,
   While the showman beats his cymbal!
   Crowds everywhere!
   But who is this appears below?
   Ah! 'tis the beauteous village queen!
   Yes, 'tis she; 'tis Franconnette!
   A fairer girl was never seen.

   In the town as in the prairie,
   You must know that every country
   Has its chosen pearl of love.
   Ah, well! This was the one--
   They named her in the Canton,
   The prettiest, sweetest dove.

   But now, you must not fancy, gentlemen,
   That she was sad and sighing,
   Her features pale as any lily,
   That she had dying eyes, half-shut and blue,
   And slender figure clothed with languishing,
   Like to a weeping willow by a limpid lake.
   Not so, my masters. Franconnette
   Had two keen flashing eyes, like two live stars;
   Her laughing cheeks were round, where on a lover might
   Gather in handfuls roses bright;
   Brown locks and curly decked her head;
   Her lips were as the cherry red,
   Whiter than snow her teeth; her feet
   How softly moulded, small and fleet;
   How light her limbs!  Ah, well-a-day!
   And of the whole at once I say,
   She was the very beau-ideal
   Of beauty in a woman's form, most fair and real.

   Such loveliness, in every race,
   May sudden start to light.
   She fired the youths with ready love,
   Each maiden with despair.
   Poor youths, indeed!  Oh! how they wished
   To fall beneath her feet!
   They all admired her, and adored,
   Just as the priest adores the cross--
   'Twas as if there shone a star of light
   The young girl's brow across!

   Yet, something vexing in her soul began to hover;
   The finest flower had failed her in this day of honour.
   Pascal, whom all the world esteemed,
   Pascal, the handsomest, whose voice with music beamed,
   He shunned the maid, cast ne'er a loving glance;
   Despised!  She felt hate growing in her heart,
   And in her pretty vengeance
   She seized the moment for a brilliant dart
   Of her bright eyes to chain him.
   What would you have?  A girl so greatly envied,
   She might become a flirt conceited;
   Already had she seemed all this,
   Self-glorious she was, I fear,
   Coquetting rarely comes amiss,
   Though she might never love, with many lovers near!
   Grandmother often said to her, "Child, child!" with gentle frown,
   "A meadow's not a parlour, and the country's not a town,
   And thou knowest well that we have promised thee lang syne
   To the soldier-lad, Marcel, who is lover true of thine.
   So curb thy flights, thou giddy one,
   The maid who covets all, in the end mayhap hath none."
   "Nay, nay," replied the tricksy fay,
   With swift caress, and laughter gay,
   "There is another saw well-known,
   Time enough, my grannie dear, to love some later day!
   'She who hath only me, hath 'none.'"

   Now, such a flighty course, you may divine,
   Made hosts of melancholy swains,
   Who sighed and suffered jealous pains,
   Yet never sang reproachful strains,
   Like learned lovers when they pine,
   Who, as they go to die, their woes write carefully
   On willow or on poplar tree.
   Good lack! thou could'st not shape a letter,
   And the silly souls, though love-sick, to death did not incline,
   Thinking to live and suffer on were better!
   But tools were handled clumsily,
   And vine-sprays blew abroad at will,
   And trees were pruned exceeding ill,
   And many a furrow drawn awry.

   Methinks you know her now, this fair and foolish girl;
   Watch while she treads one measure, then see her dip and twirl!
   Young Etienne holds her hand by chance,
   'Tis the first rigadoon they dance;
   With parted lips, right thirstily
   Each rustic tracks them as they fly,
   And the damsel sly
   Feels every eye,
   And lighter moves for each adoring glance.
   Holy cross! what a sight! when the madcap rears aright
   Her shining lizard's head! her Spanish foot falls light,
   Her wasp-like figure sways
   And swims and whirls and springs again.
   The wind with corner of her 'kerchief plays.
   Those lovely cheeks where on the youths now gaze,
   They hunger to salute with kisses twain!

   And someone shall; for here the custom is,
   Who tires his partner out, salutes her with a kiss;
   The girls grow weary everywhere,
   Wherefore already Jean and Paul,
   Louis, Guillaume, and strong Pierre,
   Have breathless yielded up their place
   Without the coveted embrace.

   Another takes his place, Marcel the wight,
   The soldier of Montluc, prodigious in his height,
   Arrayed in uniform, bearing his sword,
   A cockade in his cap, the emblem of his lord,
   Straight as an I, though bold yet not well-bred,
   His heart was soft, but thickish was his head.
   He blustered much and boasted more and more,
   Frolicked and vapoured as he took the floor
   Indeed he was a very horrid bore.
   Marcel, most mad for Franconnette, tortured the other girls,
   Made her most jealous, yet she had no chance,
   The swelled-out coxcomb called on her to dance.
   But Franconnette was loth, and she must let him see it;
   He felt most madly jealous, yet was maladroit,
   He boasted that he was beloved; perhaps he did believe it quite--

   The other day, in such a place,
   She shrank from his embrace!

   The crowd now watched the dancing pair,
   And marked the tricksy witching fair;
   They rush, they whirl!  But what's amiss?
   The bouncing soldier lad, I wis,
   Can never snatch disputed kiss!
   The dancing maid at first smiles at her self-styled lover,
   "Makes eyes" at him, but ne'er a word does utter;
   She only leaped the faster!
   Marcel, piqued to the quick, longed to subdue this creature,
   He wished to show before the crowd what love he bore her;
   One open kiss were sweeter far
   Than twenty in a corner!
   But, no! his legs began to fail, his head was in a trance,
   He reeled, he almost fell, he could no longer dance;
   Now he would give cockade, sabre, and silver lace,
   Would it were gold indeed, for her embrace!

   Yet while the pair were still afoot, the girl looked very gay--
   Resolved never to give way!
   While headstrong Marcel, breathless, spent, and hot in face,
   He reeled and all but fell; then to the next gave place!
   Forth darted Pascal in the soldier's stead,
   They make two steps, then change, and Franconnette,
   Weary at last, with laughing grace,
   Her foot stayed and upraised her face!
   Tarried Pascal that kiss to set?
   Not he, be sure! and all the crowd
   His vict'ry hailed with plaudits loud.
   The clapping of their palms like battle-dores resounded,
   While Pascal stood among them quite confounded!

   Oh, what a picture for the soldier who so loved his queen!
   Him the kiss maddened!  Measuring Pascal with his een,
   He thundered, "Peasant, you have filled my place most sly;
   Not so fast, churl!"--and brutally let fly
   With aim unerring one fierce blow,
   Straight in the other's eyes, doubling the insult so.
   All this was to our Pascal's soul the knell
   Of hope!  But to be thus tormented
   By flagrant insult, as the soldier meant it;
   Now without fear he must resent it!
   It does not need to be a soldier nor a "Monsieur,"
   An outrage placidly to bear.
   Now fiery Pascal let fly at his foe,
   Before he could turn round, a stunning blow;
   'Twas like a thunder peal,
   And made the soldier reel;
   Trying to draw his sabre,
   But Pascal, seeming bigger,
   Gripped Marcel by the waist, and sturdily
   Lifted him up, and threw his surly
   Foe on the ground, breathless, and stunned severely.

   "Now then!" while Pascal looked on the hound thrown by him,
   "The peasant grants thee chance of living!"
   "Despatch him!" cried the surging crowd.
   "Thou art all cover'd o'er with blood!"
   But Pascal, in his angry fit of passion,
   Had hurt his wrist and fist in a most serious fashion.

   "No matter!  All the same I pardon him!
   You must have pity on the beaten hound!"
   "No, finish him!  Into morsels cut him!"
   The surging, violent crowd now cried around.
   "Back, peasants, back!  Do him no harm!"
   Sudden exclaimed a Monsieur, speaking with alarm;
   The peasants moved aside, and then gave place
   To Montluc, glittering with golden lace;
   It was the Baron of Roquefort!

   The frightened girls, like hunted hares,
   At once dispers'd, flew here and there.
   The shepherds, but a moment after,
   With thrilling fife and beaming laughter,
   The brave and good Pascal attended on his way,
   Unto his humble home, as 'twere his nuptial day.

   But Marcel, furious, mad with rage, exclaimed,
   "Oh! could I stab and kill them!  But I'm maimed!"
   Only a gesture of his lord
   Restrained him, hand upon his sword.
   Then did he grind his teeth, as he lay battered,
   And in a low and broken voice he muttered:
   "They love each other, and despise my kindness,
   She favours him, and she admires his fondness;
   Ah, well! by Marcel's patron, I'll not tarry
   To make them smart, and Franconnette
   No other husband than myself shall marry!"

   SECOND PART.

   The Enamoured Blacksmith--His Fretful Mother--The Busking
   Soiree--Pascal's Song--The Sorcerer of the Black Forest--
   The Girl Sold to the Demon.

   Since Roquefort fete, one, two, three months have fled;
   The dancing frolic, with the harvest ended;
   The out-door sports are banished--
   For winter comes; the air is sad and cold, it sighs
   Under the vaulted skies.
   At fall of night, none risks to walk across the fields,
   For each one, sad and cheerless, beelds
   Before the great fires blazing,
   Or talks of wolfish fiends{3} amazing;
   And sorcerers--to make one shudder with affright--
   That walk around the cots so wight,
   Or 'neath the gloomy elms, and by farmyards at night.

   But now at last has Christmas come,
   And little Jack, who  beats the drum,
   Cries round the hamlet, with his beaming face:
   "Come brisken up, you maidens fair,
   A merry busking{4} shall take place
   On Friday, first night of the year!"

   Ah! now the happy youths and maidens fair
   Proclaimed the drummer's words, so bright and rare.
   The news were carried far and near
   Light as a bird most fleet
   With wings to carry thoughts so sweet.
   The sun, with beaming rays, had scarcely shone
   Ere everywhere the joyous news had flown;
   At every fireside they were known,
   By every hearth, in converse keen,
   The busking was the theme.

   But when the Friday came, a frozen dew was raining,
   And by a fireless forge a mother sat complaining;
   And to her son, who sat thereby,
   She spoke at last entreatingly:
   "Hast thou forgot the summer day, my boy, when thou didst come
   All bleeding from the furious fray, to the sound of music home?
   How I have suffered for your sorrow,
   And all that you have had to go through.
   Long have I troubled for your arm!  For mercy's sake
   Oh! go not forth to-night!  I dreamt of flowers again,
   And what means that, Pascal, but so much tears and pain!"

   "Now art thou craven, mother! and see'st that life's all black,
   But wherefore tremble, since Marcel has gone, and comes not
   back!"
   "Oh yet, my son, do you take heed, I pray!
   For the wizard of the Black Wood is roaming round this way;
   The same who wrought such havoc, 'twas but a year agone,
   They tell me one was seen to come from 's cave at dawn
   But two days past--it was a soldier; now
   What if this were Marcel?  Oh, my child, do take care!
   Each mother gives her charms unto her sons; do thou
   Take mine; but I beseech, go not forth anywhere!"

   "Just for one little hour, mine eyes to set
   On my friend Thomas, whom I'm bound to meet!"

   "Thy friend, indeed!  Nay, nay!  Thou meanest Franconnette,
   Whom thou loves dearly!  I wish thou'd love some other maid!
   Oh, yes!  I read it in thine eyes!
   Though thou sing'st, art gay, thy secret bravely keeping,
   That I may not be sad, yet all alone thou'rt weeping--
   My head aches for thy misery;
   Yet leave her, for thine own good, my dear Pascal;
   She would so greatly scorn a working smith like thee,
   With mother old in penury;
   For poor we are--thou knowest truly.

   "How we have sold and sold fill scarce a scythe remains.
   Oh, dark the days this house hath seen
   Since, Pascal, thou so ill hast been;
   Now thou art well, arouse! do something for our gains
   Or rest thee, if thou wilt; with suffering we can fight;
   But, for God's love, oh! go not forth to-night!"

   And the poor mother, quite undone,
   Cried, while thus pleading with her son,
   Who, leaning on his blacksmith's forge
   The stifling sobs quelled in his gorge.
   "'Tis very true," he said, "that we are poor,
   But had I that forgot?... I go to work, my mother, now, be sure!"

   No sooner said than done; for in a blink
   Was heard the anvil's clink,
   The sparks flew from the blacksmith's fire
   Higher and still higher!
   The forgeman struck the molten iron dead,
   Hammer in hand, as if he had a hundred in his head!

   But now, the Busking was apace,
   And soon, from every corner place
   The girls came with the skein of their own making
   To wind up at this sweethearts' merry meeting.

   In the large chamber, where they sat and winded
   The threads, all doubly garnished,
   The girls, the lads, plied hard their finger,
   And swiftly wound together
   The clews of lint so fair,
   As fine as any hair.

   The winding now was done; and the white wine, and rhymsters,
   Came forth with rippling glass and porringers,
   And brought their vivid vapours
   To brighten up their capers--
   Ah! if the prettiest were the best, with pride
   I would my Franconnette describe.

   Though queen of games, she was the last, not worst,
   It is not that she reigned at present, yet was first.

   "Hold!  Hold!" she cried, the brown-haired maid,
   Now she directed them from side to side--
   Three women merged in one, they said--
   She dances, speaks, sings, all bewitching,
   By maiden's wiles she was so rich in;
   She sings with soul of turtle-dove,
   She speaks with grace angelic;
   She dances on the wings of love--
   Sings, speaks, and dances, in a guise
   More than enough to turn the head most wise!

   Her triumph is complete; all eyes are fixed upon her,
   Though her adorers are but peasants;
   Her eyes are beaming,
   Blazing and sparkling,
   And quite bewitching;
   No wonder that the sweetheart lads are ravished with her!

   Then Thomas rose and, on the coquette fixing
   His ardent eyes, though blushing,
   In language full of neatness,
   And tones of lute-like sweetness,
   This song began to sing:

   THE SYREN WITH A HEART OF ICE.

   The songster finished, and the ardent crowd
   Of listeners clapped their hands in praises loud.

   "Oh! what a lovely song!" they cried. "Who is the poet?"
   "'Tis Pascal," answered Thomas, "that has made it!"
   "Bravo!  Long live Pascal!" exclaimed the fervent crowd.

   Nothing said Franconnette; but she rejoiced--was proud--
   At having so much love evoked,
   And in a song so touching,
   Before this crowd admiring.

   Then she became more serious as she thought of Pascal;
   "How brave he is!  'Tis all for him; he has not got his equal!
   How he paints love!  All praise him without doubt;
   And his sweet song--so touching!" for now by heart she knows it.
   "But if he loves at last, why does he hide away?"
   Then turning suddenly, she says--
   "Thomas, he is not here, away he stays;
   I would him compliment; can he not come?"
   "Oh! now he cannot; but remains at home."

   Then spoke the jealous Lawrence: "Pascal knows
   He cannot any other songs compose;
   Poor fellow! almost ruined quite he is;
   His father's most infirm--stretched out, and cannot rise;
   The baker will not give him bread, he is constrained to debts."

   Then Franconnette grew pale, and said, "And he so very good!
   Poor lad! how much he suffers; and now he wants his food!"

   "My faith!" said Lawrence, a heart of goodness aping,
   "They say that now he goes a-begging!"
   "You lie!" cried Thomas, "hold thy serpent's tongue!
   Pascal, 'tis true, is working, yet with harm,
   Since, for this maiden, he has suffered in his arm;
   But he is cured; heed not this spiteful knave!
   He works now all alone, for he is strong and brave."
   If someone on the girl his eyes had set,
   He would have seen tears on the cheeks of Franconnette.

   "Let's 'Hunt the Slipper!"' cried the maids;
   Round a wide ring they sat, the jades.
   Slipper was bid by Franconnette,
   But in a twinkle, Marionette--
   "Lawrence, hast thou my slipper?" "No, demoiselle!"
   "Rise then, and seek it now, ah, well!"
   Lawrence, exulting in his features,
   Said, "Franconnette, hast thou my slipper?"
   "No, sir!" "'Tis false!" It was beneath her seat!
   "Thou hast it!  Rise!  Now kiss me as the forfeit!"

   A finch, just taken in a net,
   First tries some gap to fly at;
   So Franconnette, just like a bird, escaped
   With Lawrence, whom she hated;
   Incensed he turned to kiss her;
   He swiftly ran, but in his pursuit warm,
   The moment she was caught he stumbled,
   Slipped, fell, and sudden broke his arm.

   Misfortunes ne'er come single, it is said.
   The gloomy night was now far spent;
   But in that fright of frights, quite in a breath,
   The house-door creaked and ope'd!  Was it a wraith?
   No! but an old man bearded to the waist,
   And now there stood before the throng the Black Wood Ghaist!
   "Imprudent youths!" he cried; "I come from gloomy rocks up
   yonder,
   Your eyes to ope: I'm filled with wrath and wonder!
   You all admire this Franconnette;
   Learn who she is, infatuate!

   From very cradle she's all evil;
   Her wretched father, miserable,

   Passed to the Hugnenots and sold her to the Devil;
   Her mother died of shame--
   And thus the demon plays his game.
   Now he has bought this woman base,
   He tracks her in her hiding-place.
   You see how he has punished Pascal and Lawrence
   Because they gave her light embrace!
   Be warned!  For who so dares this maid to wed,
   Amid the brief delight of their first nuptial night,
   Will sudden hear a thunder-peal o'er head!
   The demon cometh in his might
   To snatch the bride away in fright,
   And leave the ill-starred bridegroom dead!"

   The Wizard said no more; but angry, fiery rays,
   From scars his visage bore, seemed suddenly to blaze.
   Four times he turned his heel upon,
   Then bade the door stand wide, or ere his foot he stayed;
   With one long creak the door obeyed,
   And lo! the bearded ghaist was gone!

   He left great horror in his wake!  None stirred in all the
   throng;
   They looked nor left nor right, when he away had gone,
   They seemed all changed to stone--
   Only the stricken maid herself stood brave against her wrong;

   And in the hope forlorn that all might pass for jest,
   With tremulous smile, half bright, half pleading,
   She swept them with her eyes, and two steps forward pressed;
   But when she saw them all receding,
   And heard them cry "Avaunt!" then did she know her fate;
   Then did her saddened eyes dilate
   With speechless terror more and more,
   The while her heart beat fast and loud,
   Till with a cry her head she bowed
   And sank in swoon upon the floor.
   Such was the close of Busking night,
   Though it began so gay and bright;
   The morrow was the New Year's day,
   It should have been a time most gay;
   But now there went abroad a fearful rumour--
   It was remembered long time after
   In every house and cottage home throughout the land--
   Though 'twas a fiction and a superstition,--
   It was, "The De'il's abroad!  He's now a-roaming;
   How dreadful!  He is now for lost souls seeking!"

   The folks were roused and each one called to mind
   That some, in times of yore, had heard the sound
   Of Devil's chains that clanked;
   How soon the father vanished,
   The mother, bent in agony,
   A maniac she died!
   That then all smiled; they felt nor hurt nor harm,
   They lived quite happy on their cottage farm,
   And when the fields were spoilt with hail or rain,
   Their ground was covered o'er with plums and grain.

   It was enough; the girls believed it all,
   Grandmothers, mothers--thoughts did them appal--
   Even infants trembled at the demon's name;
   And when the maiden hung her head in pain,.
   And went abroad, they scarce would give her passage;
   They called to her, "Away!  Avaunt! thou imp of evil,
   Behold the crime of dealing with the Devil!"

   THIRD PART.

   The Maid at Estanquet--A Bad Dream--The Grandmother's Advice--
   Blessed Bread--Satisfaction and Affection--First Thought of Love
   --Sorrowfulness--The Virgin.

   Beside a cot at Estanquet,
   Down by a leafy brooklet,
   The limpid stream
   Enshadowed sheen,
   Lapped o'er the pebbles murmuring.
   Last summer sat a maid, with gathered flowers,
   She was engaged in setting,
   Within her grassy bowers;
   She sang in joy her notes so thrilling,
   As made the birds, their sweet songs trilling,
   Most jealous.

   Why does she sing no more? midst fields and hedgerows verdant;
   'The nightingales that came within her garden,
   With their loud "jug! jug!" warbling,
   And their sweet quavers singing;
   Can she have left her cottage home?

   No!  There's her pretty hat of straw
   Laid on the bench; but then they saw
   There was no ribbon round it;
   The garden all neglected;
   The rake and wat'ring-pot were down
   Amongst the jonquils overthrown;
   The broken-branched roses running riot;
   The dandelion, groundsell, all about;
   And the nice walks, laid out with so much taste,
   Now cover'd with neglected weeds and wanton waste.

   Oh! what has happened here?  Where is the lively maid?
   The little birds now whispering said;
   Her home is sparkling there beyond,
   With tufted branch of hazel round;
   Let's just peep in, the door is open,
   We make no noise, but let us listen.
   Ah! there's grandmother, on her arm-chair, fast asleep!
   And here, beside the casement deep,
   The maid of Estanquet, in saddened pain and grief,
   The tears down-falling on her pretty hand;
   To whom no joy nor hope can ever give relief!

   Ah! yes,'twas dark enough! for it is Franconnette,
   Already you've divined it is our pet!

   And see her now, poor maiden,
   Bending beneath the falsest blow, o'erladen;
   She sobs and weeps alternately--
   Her heart is rent and empty,
   Oft, to console herself, she rises, walks, and walks again;
   Alas! her trouble is so full of pain--
   Awake or sleeping--
   she's only soothed by weeping.
   Daughter of Huguenot accursed,
   And banished from the Church!
   Sold to the demon; she's for ever cursed!
   Grandmother, waking, said, "Child, 'tis not true;
   It matters not; 'tis but thy father fled,
   No one can contradict that raving crew;
   They know not where he is, and could they see him,
   They would so frightened be, they'd not believe their een!"

   "How changed things are," said Franconnette, "before I was so
   happy;
   Then I was village queen, all followed love in harmony;
   And all the lads, to please me,
   Would come barefooted, e'en through serpents' nests, to bless me!
   But now, to be despised and curst,
   I, who was once the very first!
   And Pascal, too, whom once I thought the best,
   In all my misery shuns me like a pest!
   Now that he knows my very sad mishaps,
   He ne'er consoles with me at all--perhaps----"

   She did deceive herself. Her grief to-day was softened
   By hearing that Pascal 'gainst slanders her defended;
   Such magic help, it was a balm
   Her aching soul to calm;
   And then, to sweeten all her ill,
   She thought always of Pascal--did this softened girl.

   What is that sound?  A sudden shriek!
   Grandmother dreamt--she was now wide awake;
   The girl sprang to her; she said, "Isn't the house aflame?
   Ah! twas a dream!  Thank God!" her murmur came.

   "Dear heart," the girl said softly; "what was this dream of
   thine?"
   "Oh, love! 'twas night, and loud ferocious men, methought
   Came lighting fires all round our little cot,
   And thou did'st cry unto them, daughter mine,
   To save me, but did'st vainly strive,
   For here we too must burn alive!
   The torment that I bore!  How shall I cure my fright
   Come hither, darling, let me hold thee tight!"

   Then the white-headed dame, in withered arms of love,
   With yearning tenderness folded the brown-haired girl, who
   strove,
   By many a smile, and mute caress,
   To hearten her, until at length
   The aged one cried out, her love gave vital strength,
   "Sold to the Demon, thou?  It is a hideous lie!
   Therefore, dear child, weep not so piteously;
   Take courage!  Be thou brave in heart once more,
   Thou art more lovely than before--
   Take grannie's word for that!  Arise!
   Go forth; who hides from envious eyes
   Makes wicked people spiteful; I've heard this, my pet;
   I know full well there's one who loves thee yet--
   Marcel would guard thee with his love;
   Thou lik'st not him?  Ah! could he move
   Thy feelings, he would shield thee, dear,
   And claim thee for his own.
   But I am all too feeble grown;
   Yet stay, my darling, stay!  To-morrow's Easter Day,
   Go thou to Mass, and pray as ne'er before!
   Then take the blessed bread, if so the good God may
   The precious favour of his former smile restore,
   And on thy sweet face, clear as day,
   Own thou art numbered with his children evermore!"

   Then such a gleam of hope lit the old face again,
   Furrowed so deep with years and pain,
   That, falling on her neck, the maiden promised well,
   And once more on the white cot silence fell.

   When, therefore, on the morrow, came the country-side,
   To hear the Hallelujas in the church of Saint Pierre;
   Great was the wonderment of those that spied
   The maiden, Franconnette, silently kneeling there,

   Telling her beads with downcast eyes of prayer.
   She needs, poor thing, Heaven's mercy to implore,
   For ne'er a woman's will she win!
   But then, beholding her sweet mien,
   Were Marvel and Pascal, eyeing her fondly o'er;
   She saw them with her glances, dark as night,
   Then shrinking back, they left her all alone,
   Midway of a great circle, as they might
   Some poor condemned one
   Bearing some stigma on her brow in sight.

   This was not all, poor child!  It was well known--
   The warden, uncle to Marcel,
   Carried the Blessed Bread;
   And like a councillor, did swell
   In long-tailed coat, with pompous tread:
   But when the trembling maid, making a cross, essayed
   To take a double portion, as her dear old grandame bade,
   Right in the view of every eye,
   The sacred basket he withdrew, and passed her wholly
   And so, denied her portion of the bread whereby we live,
   She, on glad Easter, doth receive
   Dismissal from God's house for aye.

   The maid, trembling with fear, thought all was lost indeed!
   But no! she hath a friend at need;
   'Twas Pascal, who had seen her all the while--
   Pacal, whose young foot walked along the aisle,
   He made the quest, and nothing loth,
   In view of uncle and of nephew both,
   Doth quietly to her present,

   Upon a silver plate, with flowers fair blossoming,
   The crown-piece{5} of the Holy Sacrament--
   And all the world beholds the pious offering.

   Oh! moment full of joy; her blood sprang into fleetness;
   Warmth was in all her frame, her senses thrilled with sweetness;
   She saw the bread of God arisen
   Out of its earthly prison,
   Thus life unto her own was given:
   But wherefore did her brow quite blushing grow?
   Because the angel bright of love, I trow,
   Did with her glowing breath impart
   Life to the flame long smouldering in her heart.
   It did become a something strange, and passing all desire
   As honey sweet, and quick as fire
   Did her sad soul illuminate
   With a new being; and, though late,
   She knew the word for her delight,
   The fair enigma she could guess.
   People and priest all vanish'd from her sight,
   She saw in all the church only one man aright--
   He whom she loved at last, with utmost gratefulness.

   Then from Saint Peter's church the throng widely dispersed,
   And of the scandal they had seen, now eagerly conversed;
   But lost not sight of her at all
   Who bore the Bread of Honour to the ancient dame, ere this,
   She sitteth now alone, shut in her chamber small,
   While Franconnette beams brightly with her new-found bliss.

   But when the saddened heart controls us quite,
   It quickly turns to gall the sweets of our delight.
   Then she remembered all!  The opening heaven turned grey,
   Dread thought now smites her heavily.
   Dreams she of love?  Why, what is she?
   Sweet love is not for her!  The dreaded sorcerer
   Hath said she's fore-sold for a price--a murderer!
   With heart of dev'lish wrath, which whoso dares to brave
   To lie with her one night, therein shall find his grave.
   She, to see Pascal perish at her side!
   "Oh God! have pity on me now!" she cried.
   So, rent with cruel agonies,
   And weeping very sore,
   Fell the poor child upon her knees,
   Her little shrine before.

   "Oh, Holy Virgin!"--sighing--"on thee alone relying,
   I come; I'm all astray!  Father and mother too
   Are dead lang syne, and I accursed!  All tongues are crying
   This hideous tale!  Yet save me if't be true;
   If they have falsely sworn, be it on their souls borne
   When I shall bring my taper on the fete-day morn{6}
   Oh! blessed Mother, let me see
   That I am not denied of thee!"

   Brief prayer,
   Though 'tis sincere,
   To Heaven mounts quickly,
   Sure to have won a gracious ear;
   The maid her purpose holds, and ponders momently,
   And oftentimes grows sick, and cannot speak for fear,
   But sometimes taketh heart, and sudden hope and strong
   Shines in her soul, as brightest meteor gleams the sky along.

   FOURTH PART.

   The Fete at Notre Dame--Offering to the Virgin--Thunderstroke
   and Taper Extinguished--The Storm at Roquefort--
   Fire at Estanquet--Triumph of Pascal--Fury of Marcel--
   Power of a Mother--Bad Head and Good Heart--Conclusion.

   At last, behold the day she longed for, yet so fearfully,
   But lo! the sun rose cheerfully;
   And long, long lines of white-robed village girls
   From all the country round, walked tow'rds the tinkling bells,
   And soon, proud Notre Dame appeared in sight,
   As 'midst a cloud of perfume!
   'Twas if the thirty hamlets in their might
   Were piled together into one.

   What priests!  What candles!  Crucifixes!  Garlands!
   What Angels,{7} and what banners!

