IRELAND

HISTORIC AND PICTURESQUE

BY

CHARLES JOHNSTON

ILLUSTRATED

1902

CONTENTS.

I. VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE.

II. THE GREAT STONE MONUMENTS.

III. THE CROMLECH BUILDERS.

IV. THE DE DANAANS.

V. EMAIN OF MACA.

VI. CUCULAIN THE HERO.

VII. FIND AND OSSIN.

VIII. THE MESSENGER OF THE NEW WAY.

IX. THE SAINTS AND SCHOLARS.

X. THE RAIDS OF THE NORTHMEN.

XI. THE PASSING OF THE NORSEMEN.

XII. THE NORMANS.

XIII. THE TRIUMPH OF FEUDALISM.

XIV. THE JACOBITE WARS.

XV. CONCLUSION.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Photogravures made by A.W. ELSON & Co.

PEEP HOLE, BLARNEY CASTLE
IN THE DARGLE, CO. WICKLOW
MUCKROSS ABBEY, KILLARNEY
BRANDY ISLAND, GLENGARRIFF
SUGAR LOAF MOUNTAIN, GLENGARRIFF
RIVER ERNE, BELLEEK
WHITE ROCKS, PORTRUSH
POWERSCOURT WATERFALL, CO. WICKLOW
HONEYCOMB, GIANT'S CAUSEWAY
GRAY MAN'S PATH, FAIR HEAD
COLLEEN BAWN CAVES, KILLARNEY
RUINS ON SCATTERY ISLAND
VALLEY OF GLENDALOUGH AND RUINS OF THE SEVEN
  CHURCHES
ANCIENT CROSS, GLENDALOUGH
ROUND TOWER, ANTRIM
GIANT'S HEAD AND DUNLUCE CASTLE, CO. ANTRIM
ROCK CASHEL, RUINS OF OLD CATHEDRAL, KING CORMAC'S
  CHAPEL AND ROUND TOWER
DUNLUCE CASTLE
MELLIFONT ABBEY, CO. LOUTH
HOLY CROSS ABBEY, CO. TIPPERARY
DONEGAL CASTLE
TULLYMORE PARK, CO. DOWN
THOMOND BRIDGE, LIMERICK
SALMON FISHERY, GALWAY
O'CONNELL'S STATUE, DUBLIN

IRELAND.

I.

VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE.

Here is an image by which you may call up and remember the natural form and appearance of Ireland:

Think of the sea gradually rising around her coasts, until the waters, deepened everywhere
by a hundred fathoms, close in upon the land. Of all Ireland there will now remain visible
above the waves only two great armies of islands, facing each other obliquely across a channel
of open sea. These two armies of islands will lie in ordered ranks, their lines stretching
from northeast to southwest; they will be equal in size, each two hundred miles along the front,
and seventy miles from front to rear. And the open sea between, which divides the two armies,
will measure seventy miles across.

Not an island of these two armies, as they lie thus obliquely facing each other, will rise
as high as three thousand feet; only the captains among them will exceed a thousand; nor will
there be great variety in their forms. All the islands, whether north or south, will have gently
rounded backs, clothed in pastures nearly to the crest, with garments of purple heather lying
under the sky upon their ridges. Yet for all this roundness of outline there will be, towards
the Atlantic end of either army, a growing sternness of aspect, a more sombre ruggedness in
the outline of the hills, with cliffs and steep ravines setting their brows frowning against
the deep.

Hold in mind the image of these two obliquely ranged archipelagoes, their length thrice their
breadth, seaming the blue of the sea, and garmented in dark green and purple under the sunshine;
and, thinking of them thus, picture to yourself a new rising of the land, a new withdrawal
of the waters, the waves falling and ever falling, till all the hills come forth again, and
the salt tides roll and ripple away from the valleys, leaving their faces for the winds to
dry; let this go on till the land once more takes its familiar form, and you will easily call
up the visible image of the whole.

As you stand in the midst of the land, where first lay the channel of open sea, you will have,
on your northern horizon, the beginning of a world of purple-outlined hills, outliers of the
northern mountain region, which covers the upper third of the island. On all sides about you,
from the eastern sea to the western ocean, you will have the great central plain, dappled with
lakes and ribbed with silver rivers, another third of the island. Then once more, to the south,
you will have a region of hills, the last third of Ireland, in size just equal to the northern
mountains or the central plain.

The lines of the northern hills begin with the basalt buttresses of Antrim and the granite
ribs of Down, and pass through northern Ulster and Connacht to the headlands of Mayo and Galway. It is probable
that there was originally a row of equidistant windows in the east
and west walls, one to each bay on each side; but of these, if they
ever existed, no trace remains.

There must also have been a window at the north end, and probably one at
the south end also. The present windows are plainly modern.

The room is known to have suffered from a fire, which tradition assigns to 1609; and probably
the original windows were changed during the repairs rendered necessary
at that time.

It is not easy to decide how this library was approached. It has been
suggested that the stone newel stair at the north-west corner of the
Chapter-House was used for this purpose; but, if that be the case, how
are we to explain the words in the above order "the Stair Case thereto
removed"; and an item which occurs in the Cathedral Accounts for 1789,
"taking down the old stairs, strings, and banisters, 14s."?

It appeared to me, when examining the building, that there had been
originally a door on the east side, now replaced by a window, as
shewn on the plan (fig. 38).

Possibly the staircase destroyed in 1789 led to this door, which was conveniently situated in the
centre of a bay.

The staircase built in 1789 is the one still existing at the north-east corner
of the old library (fig. 40, A).

At Salisbury Bishop Osmund (1078-99) is stated to have "got together
a quantity of books, for he himself did not disdain either to write
books or to bind them after they had been written"[246]; but the library,
as elsewhere, was a work of the fifteenth century.

The foundation is very clearly recorded in an act of the Chapter, dated 15 January, 1444-45. The members
present decide that as it is desirable, "for divers reasons, to have certain schools suitable for lectures,
together with a library for the safe keeping of books and the convenience of those who wish to study therein--which
library up to the present time they have been without--such schools and library
shall be built as soon as possible over one side of the cloister
of the church, at the cost of William [Ayscough] now Bishop of Salisbury,
the Dean, and the Canons of the aforesaid church[247]."

Accordingly, a building
was erected, extending over the whole length of the east cloister,
conveniently approached by the staircase at the south-west corner of the
south transept, which originally led only to the roof. This library
was curtailed to its present dimensions, and otherwise altered, in
consequence of a Chapter Order dated 25 November, 1758, part of which
I proceed to quote:

That the southern part of the library be taken
down as far as the partitions within which the manuscripts are placed,
the whole being found much too heavy to be properly supported by the
Cloysters, which were never designed originally to bear so great a
weight.

That the roof of the northern part of the library (where the Theological
lecture antiently used to be given by the Chancellor of the Church)
be taken down; the walls lowered, and a new and lighter roof be placed
in its room; and that the same be fitted up in a neat and convenient
manner for the reception of the present books and any others which
shall hereafter be added to them.

The appearance of the library, as the execution of the above order left
it, will be understood from the view (fig. 41), taken from the roof of
an adjoining alley of the cloister. Internally the room is 66 feet
long, 20 feet wide, and 12 ft. 9 in. high.

It has a flat plaster ceiling, part of the "new and lighter roof"
imposed on the lowered walls in 1758. The fittings are wholly modern.

The library attached to S. Paul's Cathedral, London, by which I mean
the medieval cathedral commonly called Old S. Paul's, was in a similar
position. Its history is succinctly recorded by Dugdale.

After describing the cemetery called Pardon Church Hawgh, with the
cloister that surrounded it, he proceeds:

The Library.

Over the East quadrant of the before mentioned Cloyster, was a fair
Library built, at the costs of Walter Shiryngton, Chancelour of the
Duchy of Lancaster in King Henry the 6th's time: But in the year MDXLIX.

10. Apr. both Chapell, Cloyster, and Monuments, excepting onely that side where the Library was, were
pulled down to the ground, by the appointment of Edward Duke of Somerset,
then Lord Protector to King Edward 6. and the materialls carried into
the Strand, towards the building of that stately fabrick called Somerset-House,
which he then erected; the ground where they stood being afterwards
converted into a Garden, for the Pettie Canons[248].

Nothing is known of the dimensions or arrangement of the above room;
but, as it was over a cloister, it must have been long and narrow,
like that which still exists in a similar position at Wells Cathedral,
which I will briefly mention next.

The Chapter Library at Wells Cathedral occupies the south end of a long, narrow
room over the east pane of the cloister, approached by a spiral staircase
from the south transept. This room is about 162 feet long by 12 feet
wide; the portion assigned to the library is about 106 feet long (fig.
42).

The roof was originally divided into 13 spaces by oak principals, very
slightly arched, resting on stone corbels. There were two windows
on each side to each space. In the part fitted up as a library the principals
have been plastered over to imitate stone, and the joists between
them concealed by a ceiling.

There is a tradition that this room was fitted up as a library in 1472. The present fittings,
which I shall have occasion to mention in a subsequent chapter, were put up when the library was
refitted and stocked with books after the Restoration[249].

These four examples--at Lincoln, Salisbury, S. Paul's, and Wells--are typical of Cathedral libraries built
over a cloister. I will next notice some that were detached.

The library of Lichfield Cathedral[250] stood on the north side of
the cathedral, west of the north door, at some little distance from
the church (fig. 43).

It was begun in 1489, when Thomas Heywood, dean, "gave £40 towards building a library of brick,"
and completed in 1493. It was about 60 feet long by 15 feet wide,
approached by a flight of stairs.

As the Chapter Order (9 December, 1757) which authorised its destruction speaks
of the "Library, Chapter Clerk's House, and Cloisters," I suspect
that it stood on a colonnade, after the manner of the beautiful structure
at Noyon, a cathedral town in eastern France, at no great distance
from Amiens.

This library--which I have carefully examined on two occasions--was built in pursuance of the following
Order of the Chapter, 16 November, 1506.

Le 16. iour de Nouembre audit an, l'affaire de la Librairie se remet
sus.

Le sieur Doyen offre cent francs pour cet oeuure. Et le 20. iour de Nouembre,
ouy le Maistre de Fabrique et Commissaires à ce deputez, fut arrestée le
long de l'allée qui meine de l'Eglise à la porte Corbaut; et à cet effect
sera tiré le bois à ce necessaire de nos forests, et se fera ladite
Librairie suiuant le pourtrait ou patron exhibé au Chapitre le sixiesme
iour de Mars 1506.

Le Bailly de Chapitre donne cent sols pour ce bastiment, à condition
qu'il en aura une clef[251].

This library (fig. 44) is, so far as I know, an unique specimen of a
library built wholly of wood, supported on wooden pillars with stone
bases, so that it is raised about 10 feet above the stone floor on
which they rest, probably for the sake of dryness.

There is a legend that a market used to be held there; but at present the spaces between the pillars
have been filled in on the south side. The one here represented (fig.
45) stands on the north side, in a small yard between the library and
the cathedral.

The site selected for the building is on the south side of the choir
of the cathedral, with its longest axis north and south.

It measures 72 feet in length by 17 feet in width between walls, but
was originally longer, a piece having been cut off at the south end,
where the entrance now is, and where the library is now terminated
by a stone wall of classical character.

Tradition places the entrance at the opposite end, by means of an external staircase; an arrangement which would
have been more convenient for the members of the Chapter, as they could have approached it through their
vestry, which is on the south side of the choir. There are now nine windows on the east side--originally
there were at least ten; but none on the west side, and it is doubtful
if there ever were any, as they would be rendered useless by the proximity
of other structures.

The fittings are modern and without interest.

At Bayeux also the Chapter-library is a detached building--of stone,
in two floors, about 40 feet long by 26 feet wide, but I have not
been able to discover the date at which it was built; and at York
a detached library was built 1421-22 at the south-west corner of the
south transept.

This building, in two floors, the upper of which appears to have held the books, is still in
existence.

The Cathedral library at Troyes, built by Bishop Louis Raguier between
1477 and 1479, to replace an older structure, was in an unusual position,
and arranged in an unusual manner.

It abutted against the south-east angle of the south transept, from
which it could be entered. It was nearly square, being 30 feet long by 24
feet broad; and the vault was supported on a central pillar, from which
radiated the six desks which contained the books (fig. 46).

It was called La Theologale, because lectures on theology were given
in it, as in the library at Salisbury. The desks were taken down in
1706, and the whole structure swept away in 1841-42, by the Departmental
Architect, in the course of "a thorough restoration[252]."

At this point I cannot refrain from mentioning a somewhat anomalous library-foundation at Worcester,
due to the zeal of Bishop Carpenter (1444-76), though both structure
and foundation have been long since swept away[253].

In 1464 he built and endowed a library in connexion with the charnel-house
or chapel of S. Thomas, martyr, a detached building on the north
side of the cathedral.

The deed in which this foundation is recorded contains so many interesting particulars that I will
state briefly the most important points insisted upon[254].

The Bishop begins by stating that by ancient arrangement the sacrist of the
cathedral, assisted by a chaplain, is bound to celebrate mass daily
in the charnel-house or chapel aforesaid, to keep it in repair, and
to supply it with ornaments and vestments.

For
this purpose an annual endowment of 15 marks has been provided. He then describes his own foundation.

In
accordance with the intention of his predecessors, and actuated by a desire to increase the knowledge
of our holy faith, he has built a library in the aforesaid charnel-house,
and caused certain books to be chained therein.

Further, lest these volumes should be left uncared for, and so be damaged or abstracted, he has caused
a dwelling-house for a master or keeper of the said books to be erected
at the end of the said library; and he has conferred on the said keeper
a new stipend, in addition to the old stipend of 15 marks.

This keeper must be a graduate in theology, and a good preacher. He is
to live in the said chantry, and say mass daily in the chapel thereof.

He is to take care of all the books in the library, which he is to open on every week-day for two hours
before None, and for two hours after None, to all who wish to enter
for the purpose of study.

He is to explain hard and doubtful passages of scripture when asked to do so, and once in every
week to deliver a public lecture in the library.

Moreover on Holy Thursday he is to preach in the cathedral, or at the
cross in the burial-ground.

Further, in order to prevent any book being alienated, or carried
away, or stolen from the library, a tripartite list of all the books
is to be made, wherein the true value of each is to be set down.

One of these lists is to be retained by the Bishop, another by the
sacrist, and a third by the keeper.

Whenever a book is bequeathed or given to the library it is to be
at once set down in this list together with its true value.

On the Friday after the feast of Relics (27 January) in each year, the sacrist
and the keeper are carefully to compare the books with the list;
and should any book have disappeared from the library through the
carelessness of the keeper, he is to replace it or the value of it
within one month, under a penalty of forty shillings, whereof twenty
shillings is to be paid to the Bishop, and twenty shillings to the
sacrist.

When the aforesaid month has fully expired, the sacrist is to set apart out of his own salary a sum sufficient to pay the
above fine, and to purchase and chain in the library as soon as possible another book of the
same value and material.

The keeper is to receive from the sacrist an annual salary of ten pounds,
and four yards of woollen cloth to make him a gown and hood.

The sacrist is to keep the chapel, library, books, and chains, together
with the house built for the use of the keeper, in good repair; and
he is, moreover, to find and maintain the vestments and lights required
for the chapel.

All these duties he is to swear on the Holy Gospels that he will faithfully
perform.

My enumeration of Cathedral libraries would be sadly incomplete if
I did not say a few words about the splendid structure which is attached
to the Cathedral of Rouen[255].

The Chapter
possessed a respectable collection of books at so early a date as
1120; this grew, and, 29 July, 1424, it was decided to build "a study
or library (quoddam studium seu vnam librariam)," which was completed
in 1428.

Fifty years afterwards--in 1477--it was decided that the library should be extended. The first thought
of the Chapter was that it should be built of wood, and the purchase of good stout timber (bona et grossa
ligna) is ordered.

This plan, however, was evidently abandoned almost as soon as it was formed, for two years afterwards
(20 April 1479) "the library lately erected" is mentioned. These words can only refer to the existing
structure which is built wholly of stone. A week later (28 April) William Pontis, master-mason,
was asked to prepare a design for a staircase up to the library. This he supplied on the following
day.

In June of the same year the Chapter had a serious difference of opinion with him on the ground that
he had altered the design and exceeded the estimate. They came, however, to
the wise conclusion that he should go on with the work and be requested
to finish it with all dispatch.

In the following spring (20 March 1480) it was decided to prolong the library as far as the street;
and in 1481 (18 September) to build the beautiful stone gate surmounted by a screen in open-work
through which the court is now entered.

This was completed by the end of 1482. The whole structure had therefore
occupied about five years in building.

The
library, together with a building of older date next to the Cathedral
which serves as a sort of vestibule to it, occupies the west side of
what is still called, from the booksellers' shops which used to stand
there, La Cour des Libraires.

The whole building measures 105 ft. in length, by 25 ft. in breadth. The library proper is lighted
by six windows in the east wall, and by two windows in the north wall. The masonry
of the wall under these windows and the two lancets by which it is
pierced indicate that advantage had been taken of an earlier building
to form the substructure of the library.

The
west wall must always have been blank. Access to the library was obtained
directly from the transept by means of the beautiful stone staircase
in two flights which Pontis built in 1479. This staircase leads up
to a door marked BIBLIOTHECA which opens into the vestibule above
mentioned.

In 1788 a room was built over the library to contain the archives of the church, and the staircase was
then ingeniously prolonged so as to reach the new second-floor.

Unfortunately the minutes of the Chapter tell us nothing about the
original fittings of this room[256].

In 1718 the books were kept in cupboards protected by wire-work, over
which were the portraits of benefactors to the library[257].

At present the archives have disappeared; the few books that remain have
replaced them in the upper storey, and the library is used as a second
vestry.

The illustration (fig. 47) shews the interior of the Cour des Libraires,
with the beautiful gate of entrance from the street.

The library occupies the first floor.

Beneath
are the arches under which the shops used to be arranged; and above is
the library of 1788.

FOOTNOTES:

[208] Catalogi Bibliothecarum antiqui; ed. G. Bekker, 8vo. 1885, pp.
24-28.

[209] Ibid., pp. 43-53.

[210] Ibid., pp. 64-73.

[211] Ibid. p. 82-120.

[212] Catalogi Veteres Librorum Eccl. Cath. Dunelm., ed. Surtees Soc.
1838, pp. 1-10.

[213] See a letter by Dr M. R. James in The Guardian, 18 May, 1898.
This catalogue is dated Easter, 1395.

[215] Ibid. pp. 10-34. This catalogue is dated 1391.

[216]
Ibid. pp. 34-38. Of the same date.

[217] Ibid. pp. 80, 81.
These volumes are recorded in the first of the above catalogues.

[218] Ibid. pp. 81-84. The date is 1395. For a description of the Spendment
see Rites of Durham, ut supra, p. 71.

[219]
Printed in Catalogue général des manuscrits des Bibliothèques Publiques
de France, V. 339-452.

[220] Inventarium librorum monasterii Cistercii, Cabilonensis diocesis,
factum per nos, fratrem Johannem, abbatem eiusdem loci, anno Domini
millesimo CCCC octuagesimo, postquam per duos annos continuos labore
duorum et sepius trium ligatorum eosdem libros aptari, ligari, et
cooperiri, cum magnis sumptibus et expensis fecimus.

[221] Et primo librorum existencium in libraria dormitorii, quam ut est
disposuimus, cum locus ipse prius diu fuisset inutilis et dudum arti
sutorie et vestiario serviebat, sicut per aliquas annexas armariorumque
dispositiones apparebat, sed a II^o annis vel circa nichil aut parum
ibi fuerat.

[222] Dictionnaire
raisonné de l'Architecture, I. 271.

He does not give the date, but,
when I examined the original in the Bibliothèque Nationale, I found
it plainly dated 1674.

It is a most valuable record, as it shews the monastic
buildings, which were greatly altered at the beginning of the last
century, in their primitive state.

[223] With this use of the word linea may be compared the word rayon,
now usually used in France for a shelf, especially a book-shelf.

[224] Godwin, De Præsulibus
Angliæ, ed. Richardson, I. 126.
 Where the two bays join their waters, a mountain rises precipitous, its gray
limestone rocks soaring sheer upwards, rugged and formidable. Within the shadow of the mountain
is hidden a wonderful glen--a long tunnel between cliffs, densely arched over with trees and
fringed with ferns; even at midday full of a green gloom. It is a fitting gateway to the beauty
and mystery of the mountain.

Slowly climbing by stony ways, the path reaches the summit, a rock table crowned with a pyramid
of loose boulders, heaped up in olden days as a memorial of golden-haired Maeve. From the dead
queen's pyramid a view of surpassing grandeur and beauty opens over sea and land, mingled valley
and hill. The Atlantic stretches in illimitable blue, curved round the rim of the sky, a darker
mirror of the blue above. It is full of throbbing silence and peace. Across blue fields of
ocean, and facing the noonday brightness of the sun, rise the tremendous cliffs of Slieve League,
gleaming with splendid colors through the shimmering air; broad bands of amber and orange barred
with deeper red; the blue weaves beneath them and the green of the uplands above.

The vast amber wall rises out of the ocean, and passes eastward in a golden band till it merges
in the Donegal highlands with their immeasurable blue. Sweeping round a wide bay, the land
drawls nearer again, the far-away blue darkening to purple, and then to green and brown. The
sky is cut by the outlines of the Leitrim and Sligo hills, a row of rounded peaks against the
blue, growing paler and more translucent in the southern distance. 

He had also his daughters, and he was a loving and sympathetic father, realizing that children need
brightness in their lives as well as mere care, and taking his little
family about whenever he could to parties and shows; and he had a
growing reputation in the literary world.

"Pendennis" was published in 1848, and before it had finished running Thackeray suffered from a severe illness,
that left its mark on all his succeeding life.

It was after this that Miss Brontë came to dine with him in Young Street.
She had admired "Vanity Fair" immensely, and was ready to offer hero-worship;
but the sensitive, dull little governess did not reveal in society
the fire that had made her books live, and we are told that Thackeray,
although her host, found the dinner so dull that he slipped away to
his club before she left.

He had now a good income from his books, and added to it by lecturing.

"Esmond"
appeared in 1852, and the references to my Lady Castlewood's house
in Kensington Square and the Greyhound tavern (the name of the inn
opposite to Thackeray's own house) will be remembered by everyone.

The novelist visited America shortly after, and then went with his children
to Switzerland, and it was in Switzerland that the idea for "The
Newcomes" came to him.

Young Street can only claim a part of that book, for in 1853 he moved
to Onslow Square, and the last number of "The Newcomes" did not appear
until 1855.

However, this was not his last connection with this part of Kensington,
for in 1861 he built himself a house in Palace Green, but he only
occupied it for two years, when his death occurred at the early age
of fifty-two.

The houses in Kensington Court, near by, are elaborately decorated with ornamental terra-cotta
mouldings. They stand just about the place where once was Kensington
House, which had something of a history. It was for a while the residence
of the Duchess of Portsmouth (Louise de Querouaille), and later was the school
of Dr. Elphinstone, referred to in Boswell's "Life of Johnson," and supposed,
on the very slightest grounds, to have been the original of one of
Smollett's brutal schoolmasters in "Roderick Random"; though the
driest of pedagogues, Elphinstone was the reverse of brutal.

The house was subsequently a Roman Catholic seminary, and then a boarding-house, where Mrs. Inchbald
lodged, and in which she died in 1821.

Close by was another old house, made notorious by its owner's miserliness;
this man, Sir Thomas Colby, died intestate, and his fortune of £200,000
was divided among six or seven day labourers, who were his next of
kin.

A new Kensington
House was built on the site of these two, and is said to have cost £250,000, but its owner got into difficulties,
and eventually the costly house was pulled down, and its fittings sold for a twentieth part
of their value.

Near at hand are De Vere Gardens, to which Robert Browning came in
June, 1887, from Warwick Crescent.

Further eastward we come to Palace
Gate.

Some of this property belongs to the local charities. It is known as Butts
Field Estate, and was so called from the fact that the butts for archery
practice were once set up here.

KENSINGTON GARDENS
AND PALACE.

The Gardens are so intimately connected with the Palace that it is impossible to touch upon the one without
the other, and though Leigh Hunt caustically remarked that a criticism
might be made on Kensington that it has "a Palace which is no palace,
Gardens which are no gardens, and a river called the Serpentine which
is neither serpentine nor a river," yet in spite of this the Palace,
the Gardens, and the river annually give pleasure to thousands, and
possess attractions of their own by no means despicable.

The flower-beds in the gardens nearest to Kensington Road are beautiful
enough in themselves to justify the title of gardens.

This is the quarter most patronized by nursemaids and their charges. There are shady narrow paths,
also the Broad Walk, with its leafy overarching boughs resembling one of Nature's aisles, and the
Round Pond, pleasant in spite of its primness. The Gardens were not always open to the public,
but partly belonged to the palace of time-soiled bricks to which the public
is now also admitted.

The
first house on this site of which we have any reliable detail is
that built by Sir Heneage Finch, the second of the name, who was Lord
Chancellor under Charles I. and was created Earl of Nottingham in
1681, though it is probable that there had been some building on or
near the same place before, possibly the manor-house of the Abbot.

The first Earl of Nottingham had bought the estate from his younger brother, Sir John, and it
was from his successor, the second earl, that William III. bought
Nottingham House, as it was then called.

William suffered much from asthma, and the gravel pits of Kensington
were then considered very healthy, and combined the advantages of
not being very far from town with the pure air of the country.
They bear no relation at all to the land as it is to-day. The very dispersion of these great
stone monuments, scattered equally among places familiar or wild, speaks of a remote past--a
past when all places were alike wild, or all alike familiar.

Where the gale-swept moors of Achill Island rise up toward the slope of Slievemore Mountain,
there are stone circles and cromlechs like the circles of Carrowmore. The wild storms of the
Atlantic rush past them, and the breakers roar under their cliffs. The moorland round the towering
mountain is stained with ochre and iron under a carpet of heather rough as the ocean winds. 

The parishes are only thirty-two in number. The population in 1841 was 56,454. Of monumental
remains there are but few in the county.

"Arthur's Round Table," near Eamont Bridge, is worthy of a visit, as well as other fragments, supposed
to be druidical, in the same district. There are several ancient
castles which will attract the attention of the antiquary, if he should be
near, in his journeyings, to the site of any of them.

The most conspicuous remnant of other days in Cumberland is the druidical
temple near Kirkoswald, consisting of a circle of sixty-seven unhewn
stones, called Long Meg and her Daughters.

A brief description of the leading towns within the Lake District will be useful.

* * * * *

KENDAL, as we have already stated, is about twenty miles by railway
from Lancaster.

It is a market-town, pleasantly situated on the slope of a hill rising from the river Kent; contains two churches,
and several dissenting places of worship; the ruins of the old castle of the barons of Kendal; and a
town-hall, the town being governed by a Corporation under the Municipal Reform Act.

The Kendal and Windermere Railway runs no farther than Birthwaite, which
is nine miles from Kendal, two from Bowness, and five from Ambleside. From
the railway terminus coaches and omnibuses meet all the trains in the
summer, and convey passengers onwards to Bowness, Ambleside, and other
places.

* * * * *

BOWNESS is a picturesque village placed on the banks of Windermere, and contains an ancient church,
with square tower, dedicated to St. Martin.

In the churchyard are deposited the remains of the celebrated Bishop Watson, author of "The Apology
for the Bible," he having resided at Calgarth Park, in the neighbourhood,
for several years. In the vicinity are the residences of Professor
Wilson (Elleray), the Earl of Bradford (St. Catherine's), and the Rev. Thomas
Staniforth (Storrs Hall, formerly the residence of Colonel Bolton,
of Liverpool, the intimate friend of the late Mr. Canning).

From the school-house, which stands on an eminence,
delightful views of Windermere, and other parts of the district, are seen
to great advantage, Belle Isle, on the lake, appearing to be part of the
mainland. This island is more than a mile in circumference, and comprises
about thirty acres. We may add, that Storrs Hall, whilst occupied by Colonel
Bolton, was frequently the retreat of many "choice spirits," Canning,
Wordsworth, Southey, and Wilson, of the number.

Mr. Bolton was a princely merchant of Liverpool, and Colonel of a Volunteer
Regiment whilst England was in dread of French invasion.

He was one of Mr. Canning's warmest political friends, and always took an
active part in the electioneering contests for Liverpool in which Canning
was engaged. Lockhart, referring to one of these "gatherings," says:--"A
large company had been assembled at Mr. Bolton's seat in honour of the minister;
it included Mr. Wordsworth and Mr. Southey. There was high discourse,
intermingled with as gay flashings of courtly wit as ever Canning
displayed.

There were beautiful and accomplished women to adorn and enjoy this
circle.

The weather
was as Elysian as the scenery. There were brilliant cavalcades through the
woods in the mornings, and delicious boatings on the lake by moonlight;
and the last day Professor Wilson ('the Admiral of the Lake,' as Canning
called him) presided over one of the most splendid regattas that ever
enlivened Windermere. The three bards of the lakes led the cheers that hailed
Scott and Canning."

* * * * *

WINDERMERE has been termed, not inaptly,
the English Zurich. Before its diversified beauties were "married
to immortal verse," it was the favourite resort of thousands who admired
external nature. But the "Lake Poets," as Wordsworth, Southey, Coleridge
and others were once derisively termed, have linked the Lake District
with the language of the nation. Windermere Lake is eleven miles in
length, and one mile in breadth.

At Killee and Breagho, near Enniskillen, the peat has once more been cut away, restoring some
of these great stones to the light. If we count the layers and measure the thickness of the
peat, we can tell how many years are represented by its growth. We can, therefore, tell that
the great stone circle, which the first growth of peat found already there, must be at least
as old, and may be indefinitely older. By careful count it is found that one foot of black
peat is made up of eight hundred layers; eight hundred summers and eight hundred winters went
to the building of it. One foot of black peat, therefore, will measure the time from before
the founding of Rome or the First Olympiad to the beginning of our era. Another foot will bring
us to the crowning of Charlemagne. Yet another, to the death of Shakespeare and Cervantes.
Since then, only a few inches have been added. Here is a chronometer worthy of our great cromlechs
and stone circles.

Some of these, as we saw, rest on the clay, with a sea of peat twelve feet deep around and
above them. Every foot of the peat stands for eight centuries. Since the peat began to form,
eight or ten thousand years have passed, and when that vast period began, the great monuments
of stone were already there. How long they had stood in their silence before our chronometer
began to run we cannot even guess.

At Cavancarragh, on the shoulder of Toppid Mountain, some four miles from Enniskillen, there
is one of these circles; a ring of huge stone boulders with equal spaces between stone and
stone. A four-fold avenue of great blocks stretches away from it along the shoulder of the
hill, ending quite abruptly at the edge of a ravine, the steep channel of a torrent. It looks
as if the river, gradually undermining the hillside, had cut the avenue in halves, so that
the ravine seems later in date than the stones. But that we cannot be quite sure of. This,
however, we do certainly know: that since the avenue of boulders and the circle of huge red
stones were ranged in order, a covering of peat in some parts twelve feet thick has grown around
and above them, hiding them at last altogether from the day. In places the peat has been cut
away again, leaving the stones once more open to the light, standing, as they always stood,
on the surface of the clay.

Here again we get the same measurement. At eight hundred annual layers to the foot, and with
twelve feet of peat, we have nine thousand six hundred years,--not for the age of the stone
circles, but for that part of their age which we are able to measure. For we know not how long
they were there before the peat began to grow. It may have been a few years; it may have been
a period as great or even greater than the ten thousand years we are able to measure.

The peat gradually displaced an early forest of giant oaks. Their stems are still there, standing
rooted in the older clay. Where they once stood no trees now grow. The whole face of the land
has changed. Some great change of climate must lie behind this vanishing of vast forests, this
gradual growth of peat-covered moors. A dry climate must have changed to one much damper; heat
must have changed to cold, warm winds to chilly storms. In the southern promontories, among
red sandstone hills, still linger survivors of that more genial clime--groves of arbutus that
speak of Greece or Sicily; ferns, as at Killarney, found elsewhere only in the south, in Portugal,
or the Canary Islands.

On the southwestern horizon from Toppid Mountain, when the sky is clear after rain, you can
trace the outline of the Curlew hills, our southern limit of view from Knocknarea. Up to the
foot of the hills spreads a level country of pastures dappled with lakes, broken into a thousand
fantastic inlets by the wasting of the limestone rock. This is, as we have seen already, extremely
improbable.

The student of architecture will find very much to interest him in
this Chapel of the Nine Altars. The beautiful sculpture and variety in
the capitals of the shafts of wall arcading, not to mention the rich
carving of the vaulting bosses and capitals of the vaulting shafts,
will well repay his earnest study.

The #Galilee# or #Lady Chapel# is situated at the west end of the nave. It is well known that for some
reason women were not allowed to enter any church where S. Cuthbert's
shrine stood, nor even any church dedicated to him.

At Lindisfarne a separate church was provided for them, and at Durham the Galilee Chapel was
added for the same purpose. It was alleged that S. Cuthbert himself
had made this rule, but there is no proof that he ever issued such
a command.

The Venerable Bede makes no mention of any special feeling of antipathy
to women on the part of the saint. Bede was contemporary with, and
survived S. Cuthbert forty-eight years.

Whatever may have been the origin of the practice, it is certain that in later times women were jealously
excluded from the churches of S. Cuthbert, and to this circumstance
we owe, in the chapel under our consideration, the most beautiful
and perfect example of Transitional Norman architecture existing in
England.

Let us recall briefly the circumstances attending its erection.

Hugh Pudsey, who occupied the episcopal throne, 1153 to 1195, commenced
to build a Lady Chapel at the east end of the church. The work had not gone
far before accidents happened, and cracks and fissures appeared in the walls,
which the builder thought "gave manifest indication that it was not
acceptable to God and His servant S. Cuthbert."[5] The work was therefore
abandoned, and another chapel was commenced at the west end of the
church, "into which women might lawfully enter, so that they who
had not bodily access to the secret things of the holy place, might
have some solace from the contemplation of them"

(Geoffrey de Coldingham).

Pudsey caused to be moved here the marble shafts and bases he had previously brought from "beyond
the sea," and intended to be used in the construction of his chapel
at the east end.

Entering the chapel by the steps leading from the Norman nave, the
visitor is at once impressed with the lightness and delicacy of the
work before him, as compared with the massive grandeur of the Norman
cathedral behind.

Here we have, in fact, one of the latest uses of the round arch influenced
by the rapidly developing Early English Gothic. In plan the chapel consists
of a nave with double aisles, which perhaps might be more properly
called five aisles.

These are divided by arcades, each of which is of four bays.

These arches and the columns which support them are the chief beauty and characteristic of the
chapel. The arches are semi-circular, of one order, with three lines of chevron, one on each face,
and one on the soffit between two roll mouldings. The capitals are light
and graceful and carved with a volute, and the columns clusters of
marble and freestone shafts.

The arches, however, rest on the marble columns, which are, no doubt,
those previously alluded to.

The whole seems to have been coloured in fresco, and remains of this
are still to be seen.

The stone
shafts, which alternate with those of marble, do not carry any of the weight of the arch, and
are, undoubtedly, an addition, probably in the time of Cardinal Langley,
when they must have been added, with a view to improving the appearance.

The dimensions of the chapel are forty-seven feet from east to west,
and seventy-six feet from north to south.

The existing roof and the three perpendicular windows on the west end
are also additions by Cardinal Langley.

On the walls above what were once the altars of the Virgin and Our Lady
of Pity, remains of fresco painting may be noticed, all that remains
of what has evidently been beautiful work.

These were only brought to light by the removal of successive coats
of whitewash with which they had been covered.

[5] Geoffrey de Coldingham.

When the Galilee was erected, access from the church was by the great
west door of the cathedral.

This was, however, closed up by Cardinal Langley, who constructed
the two doorways at the end of the aisles by which the chapel is now
entered.

Those
portions of the Norman wall arcading, which had to be removed by reason of the
breaking through of the new doorways, were used to fill up the lower
part of the great west door. The latter was again removed in 1846,
when the west doorway was re-opened. Langley's two doorways have four
centred arches enclosed beneath a square label moulding, with shields
bearing the Cardinal's coat-of-arms in each spandrel.

To Langley also may be attributed the five massive buttresses on
the exterior of the western wall of the chapel, which partly cover
the arcading and panelling with which it was decorated.

In adding the new roof Langley raised the walls above the arches to
carry it, giving a somewhat peculiar effect to the interior. The original
roof lines can still be made out on the west wall.

Of the contents of the chapel remaining, perhaps the most interesting
to the visitor is the grave and site of the shrine of the Venerable
Bede.

The shrine, like that of S. Cuthbert's, is gone, and all that remains
is the stone slab on which it once stood, and which bears the inscription
(placed there in 1831):

Hac sunt in Fossa Bædæ Venerabilis Ossa

This
remarkable man was contemporary with S. Cuthbert, whom, as we have
said, he survived forty-eight years.

His holiness and piety, together with his great learning, earned for him the title Venerable, and after
his death, in 735, his bones were enshrined. Of his parentage we
know nothing, except that, from his own writings, he was born in
the territory of the Abbey of Wearmouth.

At the age of seven he was being educated in that monastery, and by the time he was ten years old
he moved to the newly-founded Abbey on the Tyne, at Jarrow.

He had able and learned teachers in Benedict Bishop and Ceolfrid,
and appears to have turned his advantages to the best account.

Deacon at nineteen, and priest at twenty-nine years of age, he led
a holy and studious life.

After his ordination he wrote his "Commentaries on the Scriptures," and
writings on all the known sciences--geography, arithmetic, and astronomy.
The greatest work of his life is, however, his "Ecclesiastical History
of the English Nation," to which we owe all our knowledge of the introduction
of Christianity into Great Britain, and the early history of the English
Church.

It is dedicated to King Ceolwulf. His information was collected from various
sources--by letter as to Canterbury, by communication with bishops
and priors as to England generally, and from personal knowledge and
very recent tradition as to Northumbria.

He lived most of his long life between the monasteries of Monkwearmouth
and Jarrow, and was buried at the latter. In the year 1022 his remains
were secretly removed from Jarrow by Elfrid, who was the most unscrupulous
relic-hunter of that time, who deposited a portion of them in the
same coffin with those of S. Cuthbert.

From here they were removed by Bishop Pudsey, and placed in the newly-erected
Galilee Chapel, where he caused them to be enclosed in a magnificent
shrine.

"There, in a silver casket gilt with gold, hee laid the bones of Venerable
Bede, and erected a costly and magnificent shrine over it."[6] When the shrine
was destroyed at the suppression of the monastery, in 1542, the bones
were interred beneath the place it occupied, where they remained undisturbed
till the year 1831. In that year they were exhumed and examined, and,
after being enclosed in a lead-lined coffin, were replaced in the tomb, with
a parchment giving full details of the exhumation.

Some coins and a ring which were found at this time are preserved
in the Dean and Chapter Library.

The inscription previously quoted was then cut on the upper slab
of the tomb.

[6] "Rites of Durham."

In the
Galilee Chapel is also the tomb of its restorer, Cardinal Langley, which was erected by himself
in front of the principal altar. On its head may be seen three shields
bearing the arms of the cardinal.

Four of the western windows of the chapel originally contained beautiful
stained glass, a most careful description of which may be found in
the "Rites of Durham."

Why this chapel has always been known as the "Galilee" Chapel has been
the subject of much discussion and conjecture, and is still a matter
of uncertainty.

That it was erected for a Lady Chapel there can, however, be no doubt. In the nave of the church, between
the piers immediately to the west of the north and south doorways,
the visitor will notice a dark-coloured marble cross, beyond which
no woman was allowed to pass eastward.

#Monuments in the Nave and Transepts.#--The church of Durham is not
rich in tombs and monuments to the dead.

This is to be accounted for partly by the fact that for some centuries
the Bishops of the diocese were interred in the chapter-house, and
even most of these tombs have been lost or destroyed.

Another reason for the scarcity of monuments is that no layman was allowed
to be buried in the church until 1367, when Lord Ralph Neville obtained
that distinction for himself and his wife, the Lady Alice de Neville,
who was buried in 1374.

This monument occupies the third sub-bay from the east, on the south
side of the nave.

It is an altar tomb, and though it has suffered severely from mutilation
during the unsettled times of the Reformation, sufficient remains
to enable us to see that it was once a well-designed and noble monument.

Its mouldings are bold, and there are indications of the places where
figures were once attached to the sides. The recumbent effigies of
the noble lord and his wife, on the top of the tomb, are, however,
hopelessly smashed.

It is probable that Lord Ralph Neville obtained this honour for himself through his services and
victory at the Battle of Neville's Cross, near Durham, in 1346. In the next bay westward is the tomb
of Lord John Neville, who died in 1386.

This is also an altar tomb, and has suffered severely, though it remains
in a better state of preservation than the one just described.

Its sides each have six niches, with elaborately ornamented canopies,
and containing figures, while the ends have three similar niches with
figures. The carving of the canopies is exceedingly beautiful.

Between each of the niches are two square panels with trefoiled heads, each
panel bearing a shield with the arms of Neville and Percy. Both above and
below the niches much delicate carving may be noticed. Surmounting all
are the broken effigies of Lord John and his wife, who was the daughter
of Lord Henry Percy, the well-known Hotspur.

All the figures on this tomb, including the recumbent figures, are headless,
but sufficient remains to show that they were of great excellence.

Remains of colouring and gilding can also be distinguished in places on
the monument.

Close to this is the slab and matrix of a brass to Robert Neville, who was bishop of the diocese from
1438 to 1457.

The brass has all been removed, but the matrix shows a dignified figure of the bishop holding a crozier
and a scroll, while an inscription formerly existed on a plate at
his feet.

Bishop Neville was known for his generous qualities, as well as for his
high descent.

In the western wall, on its south side, near to the entrance to the
Galilee, is a mural tablet to a former Prebendary in the cathedral,
and a well-known antiquary, Sir George Wheler, who died in the latter
part of the seventeenth century.

On the northern side is a slab to the memory of Captain R.M. Hunter, who
was killed while charging a Sikh battery at Ferozeshah.

Opposite to the monument of Ralph Neville is a modern altar tomb to
a former headmaster of Durham Grammar School, the Rev. James Britton,
D.D., erected by his pupils.

It is surmounted by a reclining figure of Dr. Britton, in academic robes, reading a book.

In the south transept is a fine monument, by Chantrey, to the memory
of Bishop Barrington, who held the see from 1791 to 1826, dying at
the advanced age of 92 years, beloved by all.

He was a great prelate, and used his immense powers as Prince Palatine with great wisdom. The kneeling figure,
with bowed head, the left hand resting on a book, in an attitude of deep reverence, is worthy of the
name of its sculptor. On the west wall of the same transept is a tablet
to the memory of the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates
of the Durham Light Infantry who were slain or died during the Crimean
War.

Near to this is a recently inserted brass to the memory of the officers and men of the 2nd Durham Regiment
who died in Egypt and the Soudan.

In the north transept we may give some attention to a monument to
the Rev. John Carr, a former headmaster of Durham School.

It was erected to his memory by his pupils. The monument was designed
by Rickman, and is in the style known as Decorated Gothic.

The #Font# stands at the west end of the nave. It is a comparatively modern
work, covered by a tall wooden canopy which was erected by Bishop
Cosin in 1663.

The original Norman font was destroyed by the Scottish prisoners in
1650, and was replaced by a large marble basin by Bishop Cosin.

This font, in its turn, was removed to Pittington Church, where it is now in use, its place being
filled by the present modern one. It is designed in the Norman style, and is square, supported on short
columns.

The sides are carved with medallions, copied from illuminated MSS.,
which represent scenes from the life of S. Cuthbert. The cover deserves
attention as a specimen of the woodwork of the seventeenth century,
exhibiting a curious and characteristic mixture of Classic and Gothic
forms and details.

CHAPTER IV

HISTORY OF THE SEE

The earlier history of the see of Durham has already
been referred to in order to lead up to the founding of the cathedral.

We have seen how the bishop and monks of Lindisfarne fled and wandered
with the relics of their beloved S. Cuthbert, eventually settling at
Chester-le-Street, until, in the year 990, Bishop Aldhun, in terror
of the Danes, again fled southward to Ripon.

The country at this time was ruled by that weak monarch, Ethelred the Unready,
and the Danes, finding no determined opposition, continually made
piratical incursions, and eventually, through the treachery of three
chieftains, the Castle of Bamburgh fell into their hands.

After an interval of three or four months peace was made with the
invaders, and Aldhun and his monks ventured to return towards Chester-le-Street.

It was during this journey, at a place called Wredelau, that
the car carrying the saint stuck fast, and the incidents previously
related occurred, which led to the founding of the Bishopric of Durham.

#Aldhun#

may
therefore be called the first Bishop of Durham. He held the see for twenty-nine
years, and died in 1018. Aldhun it was who built the first or White Church,
now destroyed. It is extremely probable that some of the stones of this church
were used in the foundations of Carileph's choir and apses.

After Aldhun's death the see remained vacant for three years, when he
was succeeded by

#Edmund# (1020-1040).

It is said that the monks could
not agree as to who should succeed Aldhun, when one day Edmund, a presbyter,
asked in a joke, "Why not appoint me?" Being a pious and a faithful
man, they took him at his word, and, after much persuasion and fasting
and prayer, he was consecrated.

The choice was a good one.

Edmund was an energetic and beloved prelate.

He died at Gloucester in 1041. One of the most important events during his episcopate
was the invasion of Northumbria by Duncan, King of the Scots.

He besieged Durham, but was beaten off, with great slaughter, and the
heads of many of his men were exposed in the market-place.

#Egelric# (1042-1056) was the next bishop.

He was an alien, and made himself obnoxious to the clergy and people.
With the intention of rebuilding, he pulled down the wooden church at Chester-le-Street,
which had been the seat of the bishopric for one hundred and thirteen
years.

A large quantity of treasure was found while digging foundations, and this
Egelric appropriated and sent to his monastery at Peterborough, where
he soon followed it.

Before resigning the see of Durham, however,
he secured the appointment of his brother to the bishopric. Some years later William
the Conqueror called him to account for his behaviour in the matter
of the treasure, and threw him into prison at Westminster, where he
died in 1072.

#Egelwin# (1056-1071) succeeded, through the influence of his brother. He took
part in the rebellion of Eadwin and Morcar, and, like his predecessor, died in prison.
He was the last of the Saxon bishops.

#Walcher# (1071-1080). William I. found the Church in great disorder
and made many changes.

He filled most of the sees by the appointment of Norman bishops.

To Durham he elected Walcher. The latter was a man of gentle disposition,
but his chaplain, Leobwin, and Gilbert, a kinsman of his own, to
whom he entrusted most of his affairs, were hated by the people, over
whom they exercised great tyranny.

At length
a noble, named Lyulph, ventured to remonstrate with them, and in their
rage they had him assassinated.

The
people were furious, and the bishop vainly denied any knowledge of
the deed.

He called a meeting at Gateshead. Here a tremendous tumult arose, the mob crying,
"Good rede, short rede, slay ye the bishop," and eventually setting fire
to the church. The bishop was eventually reduced to a choice of facing
the mob or being burnt in the church. He chose the former, and, covering
his face with his robe, went out.

He was immediately slain on the
threshold, and dreadfully mutilated.

His body was removed by the monks to Jarrow, and afterwards
to Durham, where he was buried.

#William of S. Carileph# (1080-1096) was next appointed bishop. He was
a man of great attainments. To him we owe the founding of the present
cathedral.

Carileph
also made an important change, by the removal from Durham of the secular
clergy, and their replacement by Benedictine monks drawn from Jarrow
and Monkwearmouth.

The foundations of the new church were
laid on 29th July 1093, the Bishop and Prior Turgot being present. He
did not live to see it very far advanced, being taken ill at Windsor.

He died about
Christmas 1096.

#Ranulph Flambard# (1099-1128).--The see was kept vacant for three years
by William Rufus, when he appointed Flambard, a great builder.

He built the nave and
aisles, the west doorway and lower part of the western towers, and
vaulted the aisles.

 More numerous to the south and west, they yet spread all
over Britain, including remote northern Scotland and the Western Isles. Finally, there is a
streamer stretching still northeastward, to Norway and some of the Baltic Islands.

We are, therefore, confronted with the visible and enduring evidence of a mighty people, spreading
in two main directions from the Pillars of Hercules--eastward through Gibraltar Strait to sunny
Algeria, to southern Spain and the Mediterranean isles; and northward, along the stormy shores
of the Atlantic, from within sight of Africa almost to the Arctic Circle, across Spain, Portugal,
France, Ireland, Britain, and the lands of the Baltic and the North Sea. Throughout this vast
territory there must have been a common people, a common purpose and inspiration, a common
striving towards the hidden world; there must have been long ages of order, of power, of peace,
during which men's hearts could conceive and their hands execute memorials so vast, so evidently
meant to endure to a far distant future, so clearly destined to ideal ends. There must have
been a great spiritual purpose, a living belief in the invisible world, and a large practical
power over natural forces, before these huge monuments could be erected. Some of the stones
upheld in the air in the Irish cromlechs weigh eighty or ninety or a hundred tons. If we estimate
that a well-built man can lift two hundred pounds, it would demand the simultaneous work of
a thousand men to erect them; and it is at least difficult to see how the effort of a thousand
men could be applied.

We are led, therefore, by evidence of the solidest material reality to see this great empire
on the Atlantic and along the western Mediterranean; this Atlantean land of the cromlech-builders,
as we may call it, for want of a better name. As the thought and purpose of its inhabitants
are uniform throughout its whole vast extent, we are led to see in them a single homogeneous
race, working without rivals, without obstacles, without contests, for they seem everywhere
to have been free to choose what sites they would for their gigantic structures. And we are
irresistibly led to believe that these conditions must have endured throughout a vast extent
of time, for no nation which does not look back to a distant past will plan for a distant future.
The spiritual sweep and view of the cromlech-builders are, therefore, as great as the extent
of their territory. This mysterious people must have had a life as wonderful as that of Greece
or Rome or Egypt, whose territories we find them everywhere approaching, but nowhere invading.

What we now know of the past history of our race is so vast, so incredibly enormous, that we
have ample space for such a territory, so widespread, so enduring, as we have seen demanded
by the position of the cromlechs and standing stones; more than that, so overwhelming are the
distances in the dark backward and abysm of time, to which we must now carry the dawn of human
history, that the time needed for the building of the cromlechs may seem quite recent and insignificant,
in view of the mightier past, stretching back through geologic ages. The nineteenth century
may well be called the age of resurrection, when long-forgotten epochs of man were born again
into our knowledge. We can carry back that knowledge now to the early Miocene period, to which
belong the human relics found by the Abbé Bourgeois on the uplands of Thenay, in central France;
and no one believes that the early Miocene age can be as recent as a million years ago. A vast
space separates the Thenay relics from the later traces of man found in Pliocene sands with
the bones of the archaic meridional elephant,--at a date when the German ocean was a forest,
full of southern trees and huge beasts now long since departed from the earth. A period hardly
less vast must separate these from the close of the glacial age, when man roamed the plains
of Europe, and sketched the herds of mammoths as they cropped the leaves. That huge beast,
too, has long since departed into the abyss; but man the artist, who recorded the massive outline,
the huge bossed forehead, the formidable bulk of the shaggy arctic elephant, engraved in firm
lines on a fragment of its tusk,--man still remains. Man was present when rhinoceros and elephant
were as common in Britain as they are to-day in Southern India or Borneo; when the hippopotamus
was as much at home in the waters of the Thames as in the Nile and Niger; when huge bears like
the grizzly of the Rockies, cave-lions and sabre-toothed tigers lurked in Devon caverns or
chased the bison over the hills of Kent. Yet this epoch of huge and ferocious monsters, following
upon the Age of Ice, is a recent chapter of the great epic of man; there lies far more behind
it, beyond the Age of Ice to the immensely distant Pliocene; beyond this as far as the early
Miocene; beyond this, again, how much further we know not, towards the beginningless beginning,
the infinite.

We are, therefore, face to face with an ordered series of almost boundless ages, geologic epochs
of human history succeeding each other in majestic procession, as the face of our island was
now tropical, now arctic; as the seas swelled up and covered the hills, or the bottom of the
deep drove back the ocean and became dry land, an unbroken continent. The wild dreams of romance
never approached the splendid outlines of this certain history.

There are dim outlines of man throughout all these ages, but only at a comparatively recent
date have we traditions and evidence pointing to still surviving races. At a period of only
a few thousand years ago, we begin to catch glimpses of a northern race whom the old Greeks
and Romans called Hyperboreans or Far-Northerners; a race wild and little skilled in the arts
of life; a race of small stature, slight, dusky, with piercing eyes, low brows, and of forbidding
face. This race was scattered over lands far north of the Mediterranean, dwelling in caves
and dens of the earth, and lingering on unchanged from the days of mammoth and cave-bear. It is probable
that there was originally a row of equidistant windows in the east
and west walls, one to each bay on each side; but of these, if they
ever existed, no trace remains.

There must also have been a window at the north end, and probably one at the south end also. The present
windows are plainly modern.

The room is known to have suffered from a fire, which tradition assigns to 1609;
and probably the original windows were changed during the repairs rendered
necessary at that time.

It is not easy to decide how this library was approached. It has been suggested
that the stone newel stair at the north-west corner of the Chapter-House
was used for this purpose; but, if that be the case, how are we to explain
the words in the above order "the Stair Case thereto removed"; and
an item which occurs in the Cathedral Accounts for 1789, "taking down
the old stairs, strings, and banisters, 14s."?

It appeared to me, when examining the building, that there had been originally a door on the east side, now
replaced by a window, as shewn on the plan (fig. 38). Possibly the
staircase destroyed in 1789 led to this door, which was conveniently
situated in the centre of a bay.

The staircase built in 1789 is the one still existing at the north-east corner of the old library (fig.
40, A).

At Salisbury Bishop Osmund (1078-99) is stated to have "got together a quantity
of books, for he himself did not disdain either to write books or to bind
them after they had been written"[246]; but the library, as elsewhere,
was a work of the fifteenth century. The foundation is very clearly
recorded in an act of the Chapter, dated 15 January, 1444-45. The members
present decide that as it is desirable, "for divers reasons, to have
certain schools suitable for lectures, together with a library for the
safe keeping of books and the convenience of those who wish to study
therein--which library up to the present time they have been without--such
schools and library shall be built as soon as possible over one side
of the cloister of the church, at the cost of William [Ayscough] now
Bishop of Salisbury, the Dean, and the Canons of the aforesaid church[247]."

Accordingly, a building was erected, extending over the whole length of the east cloister, conveniently approached
by the staircase at the south-west corner of the south transept,
which originally led only to the roof.

This library was curtailed to its present dimensions, and otherwise altered, in consequence of a Chapter
Order dated 25 November, 1758, part of which I proceed to quote:

That
the southern part of the library be taken down as far as the partitions
within which the manuscripts are placed, the whole being found much
too heavy to be properly supported by the Cloysters, which were never
designed originally to bear so great a weight.

That the roof of the northern part of the library (where the Theological
lecture antiently used to be given by the Chancellor of the Church)
be taken down; the walls lowered, and a new and lighter roof be placed
in its room; and that the same be fitted up in a neat and convenient
manner for the reception of the present books and any others which
shall hereafter be added to them.

The appearance of the library, as the execution of the above order left
it, will be understood from the view (fig. 41), taken from the roof
of an adjoining alley of the cloister. Internally the room is 66 feet
long, 20 feet wide, and 12 ft. 9 in. high.

It has a flat plaster ceiling, part of the "new and lighter roof" imposed on the lowered walls
in 1758. The fittings are wholly modern.

The library attached to S. Paul's Cathedral, London, by which I mean the medieval cathedral commonly called
Old S. Paul's, was in a similar position.

Its history is succinctly recorded by Dugdale. After describing the
cemetery called Pardon Church Hawgh, with the cloister that surrounded
it, he proceeds:

The Library.

Over the East quadrant of the before mentioned Cloyster, was a fair
Library built, at the costs of Walter Shiryngton, Chancelour of the
Duchy of Lancaster in King Henry the 6th's time: But in the year MDXLIX.

10.

Apr. both Chapell, Cloyster, and Monuments, excepting onely that side where the Library was, were
pulled down to the ground, by the appointment of Edward Duke of Somerset, then Lord Protector to King
Edward 6. and the materialls carried into the Strand, towards the
building of that stately fabrick called Somerset-House, which he then
erected; the ground where they stood being afterwards converted into
a Garden, for the Pettie Canons[248].

Nothing is known of the dimensions or arrangement of the above room; but, as
it was over a cloister, it must have been long and narrow, like that
which still exists in a similar position at Wells Cathedral, which
I will briefly mention next.

The Chapter Library at Wells Cathedral occupies the south end of a long, narrow room over the east pane
of the cloister, approached by a spiral staircase from the south transept. This room is about 162
feet long by 12 feet wide; the portion assigned to the library is
about 106 feet long (fig. 42).

The roof was originally divided into 13 spaces by oak principals,
very slightly arched, resting on stone corbels. There were two windows
on each side to each space.

In the part fitted up as a library the principals have been plastered over to imitate stone,
and the joists between them concealed by a ceiling. There is a tradition that this room was fitted
up as a library in 1472.

The present fittings, which I shall have occasion to mention in a
subsequent chapter, were put up when the library was refitted and
stocked with books after the Restoration[249].

These four examples--at Lincoln, Salisbury, S. Paul's, and Wells--are
typical of Cathedral libraries built over a cloister. I will next
notice some that were detached.

The library of Lichfield Cathedral[250] stood on the north side of the cathedral, west of the north door,
at some little distance from the church (fig. 43).

It
was begun in 1489, when Thomas Heywood, dean, "gave £40 towards building
a library of brick," and completed in 1493. It was about 60 feet long
by 15 feet wide, approached by a flight of stairs.

As the Chapter Order (9 December, 1757) which authorised its destruction speaks of the "Library,
Chapter Clerk's House, and Cloisters," I suspect that it stood on a colonnade, after the manner of
the beautiful structure at Noyon, a cathedral town in eastern France, at no great distance from
Amiens.

This library--which I have carefully examined on two occasions--was
built in pursuance of the following Order of the Chapter, 16 November,
1506.

Le 16. iour de Nouembre audit an, l'affaire de la Librairie se remet
sus.

Le sieur Doyen offre cent francs pour cet oeuure. Et le
20. iour de Nouembre, ouy le Maistre de Fabrique et Commissaires
à ce deputez, fut arrestée le long de l'allée qui meine de l'Eglise
à la porte Corbaut; et à cet effect sera tiré le bois à ce necessaire
de nos forests, et se fera ladite Librairie suiuant le pourtrait ou
patron exhibé au Chapitre le sixiesme iour de Mars 1506.

Le Bailly de Chapitre donne cent sols pour ce bastiment, à condition
qu'il en aura une clef[251].

This library (fig. 44) is, so far as I know, an unique specimen of a
library built wholly of wood, supported on wooden pillars with stone
bases, so that it is raised about 10 feet above the stone floor on
which they rest, probably for the sake of dryness.

There is a legend that a market used to be held there; but at present the spaces between the pillars
have been filled in on the south side.

The one here represented (fig. 45) stands on the north side, in a
small yard between the library and the cathedral.

The site selected for the building is on the south side of the choir
of the cathedral, with its longest axis north and south.

It measures 72 feet in length by 17 feet in width between walls,
but was originally longer, a piece having been cut off at the south
end, where the entrance now is, and where the library is now terminated
by a stone wall of classical character.

Tradition places the entrance at the opposite end, by means of an
external staircase; an arrangement which would have been more convenient
for the members of the Chapter, as they could have approached it
through their vestry, which is on the south side of the choir.

There are now nine windows on the east side--originally there were at least ten; but none on the
west side, and it is doubtful if there ever were any, as they would
be rendered useless by the proximity of other structures.

The fittings are modern and without interest.

At Bayeux also the Chapter-library is a detached building--of stone,
in two floors, about 40 feet long by 26 feet wide, but I have not been
able to discover the date at which it was built; and at York a detached
library was built 1421-22 at the south-west corner of the south transept.

This building, in two floors, the upper of which appears to have held
the books, is still in existence.

The Cathedral library at Troyes, built by Bishop Louis Raguier between
1477 and 1479, to replace an older structure, was in an unusual position,
and arranged in an unusual manner.

It abutted against the south-east angle of the south transept, from
which it could be entered. It was nearly square, being 30 feet long by 24
feet broad; and the vault was supported on a central pillar, from
which radiated the six desks which contained the books (fig. 46).

It was called La Theologale, because lectures on theology were given
in it, as in the library at Salisbury.

The desks were taken down in 1706, and the whole structure swept away
in 1841-42, by the Departmental Architect, in the course of "a thorough
restoration[252]."

At this point I cannot refrain from mentioning a somewhat anomalous library-foundation
at Worcester, due to the zeal of Bishop Carpenter (1444-76), though
both structure and foundation have been long since swept away[253].

In 1464 he built and endowed a library in connexion with the charnel-house
or chapel of S. Thomas, martyr, a detached building on the north side
of the cathedral. The deed in which this foundation is recorded contains
so many interesting particulars that I will state briefly the most
important points insisted upon[254].

The Bishop begins by stating that by ancient arrangement the sacrist
of the cathedral, assisted by a chaplain, is bound to celebrate mass
daily in the charnel-house or chapel aforesaid, to keep it in repair,
and to supply it with ornaments and vestments.

For this purpose an annual endowment of 15 marks has been provided.

He then describes his own foundation.

In accordance with the intention of his predecessors, and actuated
by a desire to increase the knowledge of our holy faith, he has built
a library in the aforesaid charnel-house, and caused certain books
to be chained therein.

Further, lest these volumes should be left uncared for, and so be damaged
or abstracted, he has caused a dwelling-house for a master or keeper
of the said books to be erected at the end of the said library; and he
has conferred on the said keeper a new stipend, in addition to the
old stipend of 15 marks.

This keeper must be a graduate in theology, and a good preacher. He
is to live in the said chantry, and say mass daily in the chapel thereof.
He is to take care of all the books in the library, which he is to
open on every week-day for two hours before None, and for two hours
after None, to all who wish to enter for the purpose of study.

He is to explain hard and doubtful passages of scripture when asked
to do so, and once in every week to deliver a public lecture in the
library.

Moreover on Holy Thursday he is to preach in the cathedral, or at
the cross in the burial-ground.

Further, in order to prevent any book being alienated, or carried
away, or stolen from the library, a tripartite list of all the books
is to be made, wherein the true value of each is to be set down.

One of these lists is to be retained by the Bishop, another by the
sacrist, and a third by the keeper.

Whenever a book is bequeathed or given to the library it is to be at
once set down in this list together with its true value.

On the Friday after the feast of Relics (27 January) in each year, the sacrist
and the keeper are carefully to compare the books with the list; and
should any book have disappeared from the library through the carelessness
of the keeper, he is to replace it or the value of it within one month,
under a penalty of forty shillings, whereof twenty shillings is to
be paid to the Bishop, and twenty shillings to the sacrist.

When the aforesaid month has fully expired, the sacrist is to set
apart out of his own salary a sum sufficient to pay the above fine,
and to purchase and chain in the library as soon as possible another
book of the same value and material.

The keeper is to receive
from the sacrist an annual salary of ten pounds, and four yards of woollen
cloth to make him a gown and hood.

The
sacrist is to keep the chapel, library, books, and chains, together with
the house built for the use of the keeper, in good repair; and he
is, moreover, to find and maintain the vestments and lights required
for the chapel.

All these duties he is to swear on the Holy Gospels that he will faithfully
perform.

My enumeration of Cathedral libraries would be sadly incomplete if I did not say a few words about
the splendid structure which is attached to the Cathedral of Rouen[255]. The Chapter possessed a respectable
collection of books at so early a date as 1120; this grew, and, 29
July, 1424, it was decided to build "a study or library (quoddam studium
seu vnam librariam)," which was completed in 1428.

Fifty years afterwards--in 1477--it was decided that the library should
be extended.

The first thought of the Chapter was that it should be built of wood, and the purchase of good stout
timber (bona et grossa ligna) is ordered.

This plan, however, was evidently abandoned almost as soon as it was formed, for two years afterwards
(20 April 1479) "the library lately erected" is mentioned.

These words can only refer to the existing structure which is built wholly of stone. A week later (28
April) William Pontis, master-mason, was asked to prepare a design
for a staircase up to the library.

This
he supplied on the following day.

In June of the same year the Chapter had a serious difference of
opinion with him on the ground that he had altered the design and
exceeded the estimate.

They came, however, to the wise conclusion that he should go on with
the work and be requested to finish it with all dispatch.

In the following spring (20 March 1480) it was decided to prolong the
library as far as the street; and in 1481 (18 September) to build
the beautiful stone gate surmounted by a screen in open-work through
which the court is now entered.

This was completed by the end of 1482. The whole structure had therefore
occupied about five years in building.

The library, together with a building of older date next to the Cathedral
which serves as a sort of vestibule to it, occupies the west side
of what is still called, from the booksellers' shops which used to
stand there, La Cour des Libraires.

The whole building measures 105 ft. in length, by 25 ft. in breadth.

The
library proper is lighted by six windows in the east wall, and by
two windows in the north wall.

The masonry
of the wall under these windows and the two lancets by which it is
pierced indicate that advantage had been taken of an earlier building to form
the substructure of the library. The west wall must always have been
blank. Access to the library was obtained directly from the transept by
means of the beautiful stone staircase in two flights which Pontis
built in 1479.

This staircase leads up to a door marked BIBLIOTHECA which opens into the
vestibule above mentioned. In 1788 a room was built over the library
to contain the archives of the church, and the staircase was then
ingeniously prolonged so as to reach the new second-floor.

Unfortunately
the minutes of the Chapter tell us nothing about the original fittings of
this room[256].

In 1718 the books were kept in cupboards protected by wire-work, over
which were the portraits of benefactors to the library[257].

At present the archives have disappeared; the few books that remain have
replaced them in the upper storey, and the library is used as a second vestry.
The illustration (fig. 47) shews the interior of the Cour des Libraires,
with the beautiful gate of entrance from the street.

The library occupies the first floor.

Beneath
are the arches under which the shops used to be arranged; and above
is the library of 1788.

FOOTNOTES:

[208] Catalogi Bibliothecarum antiqui; ed.

G. Bekker,
8vo. 1885, pp. 24-28.

[209] Ibid., pp. 43-53.

[210] Ibid., pp.
64-73.

[211] Ibid. p. 82-120.

[212] Catalogi Veteres Librorum
Eccl. Cath. Dunelm., ed. Surtees Soc. 1838, pp. 1-10.

[213] See a letter by Dr M. R. James in The Guardian,
18 May, 1898. This catalogue is dated Easter, 1395.

[215] Ibid. pp. 10-34. This catalogue is dated 1391.

[216] Ibid. pp. 34-38. Of the same date.

[217] Ibid. pp. 80, 81. These volumes
are recorded in the first of the above catalogues.

[218] Ibid. pp. 81-84. The date is 1395. For a description of the Spendment
see Rites of Durham, ut supra, p. 71.

[219] Printed in Catalogue général des manuscrits des Bibliothèques
Publiques de France, V. 339-452.

[220] Inventarium librorum monasterii Cistercii,
Cabilonensis diocesis, factum per nos, fratrem Johannem, abbatem eiusdem
loci, anno Domini millesimo CCCC octuagesimo, postquam per duos annos
continuos labore duorum et sepius trium ligatorum eosdem libros aptari,
ligari, et cooperiri, cum magnis sumptibus et expensis fecimus.

[221] Et primo librorum existencium in libraria dormitorii, quam ut
est disposuimus, cum locus ipse prius diu fuisset inutilis et dudum
arti sutorie et vestiario serviebat, sicut per aliquas annexas armariorumque
dispositiones apparebat, sed a II^o annis vel circa nichil aut parum
ibi fuerat.

[222] Dictionnaire raisonné de l'Architecture, I. 271. He does not
give the date, but, when I examined the original in the Bibliothèque
Nationale, I found it plainly dated 1674. It is a most valuable record,
as it shews the monastic buildings, which were greatly altered at
the beginning of the last century, in their primitive state.

[223]
With this use of the word linea may be compared the word rayon, now
usually used in France for a shelf, especially a book-shelf.

[224]
Godwin, De Præsulibus Angliæ, ed. Richardson, I. 126.

There, still within sight of the Caledonian isles and headlands hovering in blue shadows over
the sea, they entered, where the sun rose over long silver sands and hills of chalk, with a
grim headland on the west towering up into sombre mountains. Once within the strait, they had
a wide expanse of quiet waters on all sides, running deep among the rugged hills, and receiving
at its further end the river Foyle, tempting them further and further with their ships. Up
the Foyle went the De Danaan fleet, among the oak-woods, the deer gazing wide-eyed at them
from dark caverns of shadow, the wolves peering after them in the night. Then, when their ships
would serve them no further, they landed, and, to set the seal on their coming, burned their
boats, casting in their lot with the fate of their new home. 209) contain a note by Mr. E. H.
Binney on Roman remains on the known Roman site, Nythe Farm, about
three miles east of Swindon.

Worcestershire

(45) The same Proceedings (xxvi.

206) contain an account by Dr. G. B. Grundy of two sections which
he dug lately across the line of Rycknield Street on the high ground
south-east of Broadway, thereby helping to fix the road at this point.

A sketch-map is added.

Yorkshire

(46) In the Bradford Antiquary for October 1914 (iv. The Firbolgs had their central stronghold at Douin Cain, the Beautiful Eminence,
which, tradition tells us, later bore the name of Tara. The chief among their chiefs was Eocaid,
son of Ere, remembered as the last ruler of the Firbolgs. Every man of them was a hunter, used
to spear and shield, and the skins of deer and the shaggy hides of wolves were their garments;
their dwellings were built of well-fitted oak. To the chief, Eocaid, Erc's son, came rumor
of the strangers near the Lakes of Erne; their ships, burned at their debarking, were not there
to tell of the manner of their coming, and the De Danaans themselves bruited it abroad that
they had come hither by magic, borne upon the wings of the wind. The chiefs of Tara gathered
together, within their fort of earth crowned with a stockade, and took counsel how to meet
this new adventure. After long consultation they chose one from among them, Sreng by name,
a man of uncommon strength, a warrior tried and proven, who should go westward to find out
more of the De Danaans.

Doubtless taking certain chosen companions with him, Sreng, the man of valor from among the
Firbolgs, set forth on his quest. As in all forest-covered countries, the only pathways lay
along the river-banks, or, in times of drought, through the sand or pebbles of their beds.
Where the woods pressed closest upon the streams, the path wound from one bank to the other,
crossing by fords or stepping-stones, or by a bridge of tree-trunks. So went Sreng, careful
and keen-eyed, up the stream of the Blackwater, and thence to the Erne, and so drew near to
the Plain of the Headland, where was the De Danaan camp. They, too, had word of his coming
from their scouts and hunters, and sent forth Breas, one among their bravest, to meet the envoy.

They sighted each other and halted, each setting his shield in the earth, peering at his adversary
above its rim. Then, reassured, they came together, and Breas first spoke to Sreng. After the
first words they fell, warrior-like, to examining each other's weapons; Sreng saw that the
two spears of Breas the De Danaan were thin, slender and long, and sharp-pointed, while his
own were heavy, thick and point-less, but sharply rounded.

Here we have a note of reality, for spears of these two types are well known to us; those of
Sreng were chisel-shaped, round-edged, socketed celts; the De Danaan lances were long and slender,
like our spears. There are two materials also--a beautiful golden bronze, shining and gleaming
in the sunlight, and a darker, ruddier metal, dull and heavy; and these darker spears have
sockets for greatly thicker hafts. Both also carried swords, made, very likely, the one of
golden, the other of dull, copper-colored bronze.

Then, putting these pleasant things aside, they turned to weightier matters, and Breas made
a proposal for the De Danaan men. The island was large, the forests wide and full of game,
the waters sweet and well-stocked with fish. Might they not share it between them, and join
hands to keep out all future comers? Sreng could give no final answer; he could only put the
matter before the Firbolg chiefs; so, exchanging spears in sign of friendship and for a token
between them, they returned each to his own camp.

Sreng of the Firbolgs retraced his path some four-score miles among the central forests, and
came to the Beautiful Eminence, where the Firbolgs had their settlement. Eocaid, Erc's son,
their chieftain, called the lesser chiefs around him, and Sreng made full report of what he
had seen and heard. The Firbolgs, pressed on by their fate, decided to refuse all terms with
the De Danaans, but to give them battle, and drive them from the island. So they made ready,
each man seeing to the straps of his shield, the burnishing of his thick sword and heavy spear.
Eyes gleamed out beneath lowering brows all about the dwellings of Tara, and hot words were
muttered of the coming fight. The dark faces of the Firbolgs were full of wrath.

Breas, returning to the camp of the Tuata De Danaan, gave such account of the fierceness and
strength of Sreng, and the weight and sturdiness of his weapons, that the hearts of the golden-haired
newcomers misgave them, and they drew away westward to the strip of land that lies between
the lakes of Corrib and Mask. There, tradition tells us, they made an encampment upon the hill
of Belgadan, near the stream that flows through caverns beneath the rocks from the northern
to the southern lake. Survey); both works contain references to original papers.

(J. A. H.)

BAJOUR, or BAJAUR, a small district peopled by Pathan races of Afghan
origin, in the North-West Frontier Province of India. It is about 45
m. long by 20. broad, and lies at a high level to the east of the
Kunar valley, from which it is separated by a continuous line of rugged
frontier hills, forming a barrier easily passable at one or two points.

Across this barrier the old road from Kabul to India ran before the
Khyber Pass was adopted as the main route.

Bajour
is inhabited almost exclusively by Tarkani (Tarkalanri) Pathans,
sub-divided into Mamunds, Isazai, and Ismailzai, numbering together
with a few Mohmands, Utmauzais, &c., about 100,000.

To the south of Bajour is the wild mountain district of the Mohmands,
a Pathan race. To the east, beyond the Panjkora river, are the hills
of Swat, dominated by another Pathan race. To the north is an intervening
watershed between Bajour and the small state of Dir; and it is over
this watershed and through the valley of Dir that the new road from
Malakand and the Punjab runs to Chitral.

The drainage of Bajour flows eastwards, starting from the eastern slopes of the dividing ridge which
overlooks the Kunar and terminating in the Panjkora river, so that
the district lies on a slope tilting gradually downwards from the
Kunar ridge to the Panjkora.

Nawagai is the chief town of Bajour, and the khan of Nawagai is under British protection for the
safeguarding of the Chitral road.

Jandol, one of the northern valleys of Bajour, has ceased to be of political importance since the failure
of its chief, Umra Khan, to appropriate to himself Bajour, Dir, and a great part of the Kunar
valley.

It was the active hostility between the amir of Kabul (who claimed sovereignty of the same districts)
and Umra Khan that led, firstly to the demarcation agreement of 1893 which fixed the boundary
of Afghanistan in Kunar; and, secondly, to the invasion of Chitral by Umra Khan (who was no party
to the boundary settlement) and the siege of the Chitral fort in
1895.

An interesting feature in Bajour topography is a mountain spur from
the Kunar range, which curving eastwards culminates in the well-known
peak of Koh-i-Mor, which is visible from the Peshawar valley.

It was here, at the foot of the mountain, that Alexander found the ancient city of Nysa and the
Nysaean colony, traditionally said to have been founded by Dionysus. The Koh-i-Mor has been
identified as the Meros of Arrian's history--the three-peaked mountain
from which the god issued.

It is also interesting to find that a section of the Kafir community of Kamdesh still claim the
same Greek origin as did the Nysaeans; still chant hymns to the god who
sprang from Gir Nysa (the mountain of Nysa); whilst they maintain that
they originally migrated from the Swat country to their present habitat
in the lower Bashgol.

Long after Buddhism had spread to Chitral, Gilgit, Dir and Swat; whilst Ningrahar was still full of monasteries
and temples, and the Peshawar valley was recognized as the seat of Buddhist learning, the Kafirs or Nysaeans
held their own in Bajour and in the lower Kunar valley, where Buddhism
apparently never prevailed.

It is probable that the invader Baber (who has much to say about Bajour)
fought them there in the early years of the 16th century, when on
his way to found the Mogul dynasty of India centuries after Buddhism
has been crushed in northern India by the destroyer Mahmud.

The Gazetteers and Reports of the Indian government contain nearly all the modern
information available about Bajour.

The autobiography of Baber (by Leyden and Erskine) gives interesting details about the country in the 16th
century.

For the connexion between the Kafirs and the ancient Nysaeans of
Swat, see R. G. S. Journal, vol. vii., 1896.

(T. H. H.*)

BAJZA, JOSEPH (1804-1858), Hungarian poet and critic, was born at Szücsi in 1804. His earliest contributions
were made to Kisfaludy's Aurora, a literary paper of which he was editor from 1830 to 1837. He
also wrote largely in the Kritische Blätter, the Athenaeum, and the
Figyelmezö or Observer.

His criticisms on dramatic art were considered the best of these miscellaneous
writings.

In 1830 he published translations of some foreign dramas, Ausländische Bühna,
and in 1835 a collection of his own poems. In 1837 he was made director
of the newly established national theatre at Pest. He then, for some years,
devoted himself to historical writing, and published in succession
the Historical Library (Törtereti Könyvtár), 6 vols., 1843-1845; the
Modern Plutarch (Uj Plutarch), 1845-1847; and the Universal History
(Világtörétet), 1847.

These works are to some extent translations from German authors. In
1847 Bajza edited the journal of the opposition, Ellenör, at Leipzig,
and in March 1848 Kossuth made him editor of his paper, Kossuth Hirlapja.

In 1850 he was attacked with brain
disease and died in 1858.

BAKALAI (BAKALÉ, BANGOUENS), a Bantu negroid tribe inhabiting a wide tract
of French Congo between the river Ogowé and 2° S. They appear to be immigrants
from the south-east, and have been supposed to be connected racially
with the Galoa, one of the Mpongwe tribes and the chief river-people
of the Ogowé.

The Bakalai have suffered much from the incursions of their neighbours
the Fang, also arrivals from the south-east, and it may be that they
migrated to their present abode under pressure from this people at
an earlier date.

They are keen hunters and were traders in slaves and rubber; the slave traffic has been prohibited
by the French authorities.

Their women display considerable ingenuity in dressing their hair,
often taking a whole day to arrange a coiffure; the hair is built
up on a substructure of clay and a good deal of false hair incorporated;
a coat of red, green or yellow pigment often completes the effect.

The same colours are used to decorate the hut doors. The villages,
some of which are fortified with palisades, are usually very dirty; chiefs
and rich men own plantations which are situated at some distance
from the village and to which their womenfolk are sent in times of
war.

The Bakalai of Lake Isanga cremate their dead; those of the Upper
Ogowé throw the bodies into the river, with the exception of those
killed in war.

The body of a chief is placed secretly in a hut erected in the depths of the forest, and the village
is deserted for that night, in some cases altogether; the slaves of the
deceased are (or were) sacrificed, and his wives scourged and secluded
in huts for a week.

"Natural" deaths are attributed to the machinations of a sorcerer, and the
poison-ordeal is often practised.

Of their social organization little is known, but it appears that
nearly all individuals refrain from eating the flesh of some particular
animal.

BAKE, JAN (1787-1864), Dutch philologist and critic, was born at Leiden
on the 1st of September 1787, and from 1817 to 1854 he was professor
of Greek and Roman literature at the university.

He died on the 26th of March 1864. His principal works are:--Posidonii Rhodii Reliquiae Doctrinae (1810);
Cleomedis Circularis Doctrina de Sublimitate (1820); Bibliotheca [v.03 p.0227] Critica Nova (1825-1831)
and Scholica Hypomnemata (1837-1862), a collection of essays dealing mainly with Cicero and the Attic orators;
Cicero, De Legibus (1842) and De Oratore (1863); the Rhetorica of
Apsines and Longinus (1849).

His biography was written (in Dutch) by his pupil Bakhuizen van der Brink (1865); for
an appreciation of his services to classical literature see L. Müller,
Geschichte der klassischen Philologie in den Niederlanden (1869).

BAKER, SIR BENJAMIN (1840-1907), English engineer, was born near Bath
in 1840, and, after receiving his early training in a South Wales
ironworks, became associated with Sir John Fowler in London.

He took part in the construction of the Metropolitan railway (London), and in designing the cylindrical
vessel in which Cleopatra's Needle, now standing on the Thames Embankment, London, was brought over
from Egypt to England in 1877-1878.

By this time he had already made himself an authority on bridge-construction, and shortly afterwards
he was engaged on the work which made his reputation with the general public--the
design and erection of the Forth Bridge. On the completion of this
undertaking in 1890 he was made K.C.M.G., and in the same year the
Royal Society recognized his scientific attainments by electing him
one of its fellows.

Twelve years later at the formal opening of the Assuan dam, for which
he was consulting-engineer, he was created K.C.B. Sir Benjamin Baker,
who also had a large share in the introduction of the system widely adopted
in London of constructing intra-urban railways in deep tubular tunnels
built up of cast iron segments, obtained an extremely large professional
practice, ranging over almost every branch of civil engineering, and
was more or less directly concerned with most of the great engineering
achievements of his day.

He was also the author of many papers on engineering subjects. He died
at Pangbourne, Berks, on the 19th of May 1907.

BAKER, HENRY (1698-1774), English naturalist, was born in London on the
8th of May 1698. After serving an apprenticeship with a bookseller,
he devised a system of instructing the deaf and dumb, by the practice
of which he made a considerable fortune.

It brought him to the notice of Daniel Defoe, whose youngest daughter Sophia he married in 1729.
A year before, under the name of Henry Stonecastle, he was associated with Defoe in starting the
Universal Spectator and Weekly Journal.

In 1740 he was elected fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and of the Royal Society. He contributed
many memoirs to the Transactions of the latter society, and in 1744
received the Copley gold medal for microscopical observations on
the crystallization of saline particles.

He was one of the founders of the Society of Arts in 1754, and for
some time acted as its secretary.

He died in London on the 25th of November 1774. Among his publications were The Microscope made Easy
(1743), Employment for the Microscope (1753), and several volumes of verse, original and
translated, including The Universe, a Poem intended to restrain the
Pride of Man (1727).

His name is perpetuated by the Bakerian lecture of the Royal Society, for the foundation of
which he left by will the sum of £100.

BAKER, SIR RICHARD (1568-1644/5), author of the Chronicle of the Kings
of England and other works, was probably born at Sissinghurst in Kent,
and entered Hart Hall, Oxford, as a commoner in 1584.

He left the university without taking a degree, studied law in London
and afterwards travelled in Europe.

In 1593 he was chosen member of parliament for Arundel, in 1594 his university
conferred upon him the degree of M.A., and in 1597 he was elected
to parliament as the representative of East Grinstead.

In 1603 he was knighted by King James I., in 1620 he acted as high sheriff at Oxfordshire where he owned
some property, and soon afterwards he married Margaret, daughter
of Sir George Mainwaring, of Ightfield, Shropshire.

By making himself responsible for some debts of his wife's family, he was reduced to great poverty,
which led to the seizure of his Oxfordshire property in 1625.

Quite penniless, he took refuge in the Fleet prison in 1635, and was still in confinement when he died on
the 18th of February 1644 (1645). He was buried in the church of St Bride,
Fleet Street, London.

During his imprisonment Baker spent his time mainly in writing. His chief work is the Chronicle of the Kings
of England from the Time of the Romans' Government unto the Death of King James (1643, and
many subsequent editions). It was translated into Dutch in 1649,
and was continued down to 1658 by Edward Phillips, a nephew of John
Milton.

For many
years the Chronicle was extremely popular, but owing to numerous inaccuracies its historical value
is very slight. Baker also wrote Cato Variegatus or Catoes Morall Distichs, Translated and Paraphrased by Sir Richard
Baker, Knight (London, 1636); Meditations on the Lord's Prayer (1637); Translation
of New Epistles by Moonsieur D'Balzac (1638); Apologie for Laymen's
Writing in Divinity, with a Short Meditation upon the Fall of Lucifer
(1641); Motives for Prayer upon the seaven dayes of ye weeke (1642);
a translation of Malvezzi's Discourses upon Cornelius Tacitus (1642),
and Theatrum Redivivum, or The Theatre Vindicated, a reply to the
Histrio-Mastix of William Prynne (1642).

He also wrote Meditations upon several of the psalms of David, which have been collected and edited
by A. B. Grosart (London, 1882).

See J. Granger, Biographical History of England to the Revolution (London, 1804); Biographia Britannica,
corrected by A. Kippis (London, 1778-1793).

BAKER, SIR SAMUEL WHITE (1821-1893), English explorer, was born in London on
the 8th of June 1821.

He was educated partly in England and partly in Germany. His father, a West
India merchant, destined him for a commercial career, but a short experience
of office work proved him to be entirely unsuited to such a life.
On the 3rd of August 1843 he married Henrietta Biddulph Martin, daughter
of the rector of Maisemore, Gloucestershire, and after two years
in Mauritius the desire for travel took him in 1846 to Ceylon, where
in the following year he founded an agricultural settlement at Nuwara
Eliya, a mountain health-resort.

Aided by his brother, he brought emigrants thither from England, together with choice breeds of cattle,
and before long the new settlement was a success.

During his residence in Ceylon he published, as a result of many adventurous hunting expeditions, The
Rifle and the Hound in Ceylon (1853), and two years later Eight Years' Wanderings in Ceylon (1855). After
a journey to Constantinople and the Crimea in 1856, he found an outlet
for his restless energy by undertaking the supervision of the construction
of a railway across the Dobrudja, connecting the Danube with the Black
Sea.

After its completion he spent some months in a tour in south-eastern
Europe and Asia Minor. It was during this time that he met in Hungary the lady
who (in 1860) became his second wife, Florence, daughter of Finnian von Sass,
his first wife having died in 1855. In March 1861 he started upon
his first tour of exploration in central Africa. After a year spent
on the Sudan-Abyssinian border, during which time he learnt Arabic,
explored the Atbara and other Nile tributaries, and proved that the
Nile sediment came from Abyssinia, he arrived at Khartum, leaving
that city in December 1862 to follow up the course of the White Nile.

Two
months later at Gondokoro he met Speke and Grant, who, after discovering
the source of the Nile, were following the river to Egypt.

Their
success made him fear that there was nothing left for his own expedition
to accomplish; but the two explorers generously gave him information
which enabled him, after separating from them, to achieve the discovery
of Albert Nyanza, of whose existence credible assurance had already
been given to Speke and Grant. Baker first sighted the lake on the
14th of March 1864. After some time spent in the exploration of the
neighbourhood, during which Baker demonstrated that the Nile flowed
through the Albert Nyanza--of whose size he formed an exaggerated
idea--he started upon his return journey, and reached Khartum after
many checks in May 1865. In the following October he returned to England
with his wife, who had accompanied him throughout the whole of the
perilous and arduous journey. In recognition of the achievements by
which Baker had indissolubly linked his name [v.03 p.0228] with the
solution of the problem of the Nile sources, the Royal Geographical
Society awarded him its gold medal, and a similar distinction was
bestowed on him by the Paris Geographical Society. In August 1866
he was knighted. In 1868 he published a popular story called Cast
up by the Sea.

In 1869 he attended the prince of Wales, afterwards
King Edward VII., in a tour through Egypt. In the same year, at the
request of the khedive Ismail, Baker undertook the command of a military
expedition to the equatorial regions of the Nile, with the object
of suppressing the slave-trade there and opening the way to commerce
and civilization.

Before starting from Cairo with a force of 1700
Egyptian troops--many of them discharged convicts--he was given the
rank of pasha and major-general in the Ottoman army. Lady Baker, as
before, accompanied him.

The khedive appointed him governor-general
of the new territory for four years at a salary of £10,000 a year;
and it was not until the expiration of that time that Baker returned
to Cairo, leaving his work to be carried on by the new governor, Colonel
Charles George Gordon.
But the Sons of Milid showed the way. They may have come by Bantry Bay or the Kenmare River
or Dingle Bay; more probably the last, for tradition still points to the battlefield where
they were opposed, on the hills of Slieve Mish, above the Dingle fiord.

But wherever they debarked on that southwestern coast they found a land warm and winning as
the south they had left behind--a land of ever-green woods, yew and arbutus mingling with beech
and oak and fir; rich southern heaths carpeting the hillsides, and a soft drapery of ferns
upon the rocks. There were red masses of overhanging mountain, but in the valleys, sheltered
and sun-warmed, they found a refuge like the Isles of the Blest. The Atlantic, surging in great
blue rollers, brought the warmth of tropical seas, and a rich and vivid growth through all
the glens and vales responded to the sun's caress.

The De Danaans must ere this have spread through all of the island, except the western province
assigned to the Firbolgs; for we find them opposing,--but vainly opposing,--the Sons of Milid,
at the very place of their landing. Here again we find the old tradition verified; for at the
spot recorded of old by the bards and heralds, among the hills by the pass that leads from
Dingle to Tralee Bay, numberless arrow-heads have been gathered, the gleanings after a great
combat. The De Danaans fought with sword and spear, but, unless they had added to their weapons
since the days of Breas and Sreng, they did not shoot with the bow; this was, perhaps, the
cause of their defeat, for the De Danaans were defeated among the hills on that long headland.

From their battlefield they could see the sea on either hand, stretching far inland northward
and southward; across these arms of the sea rose other headlands, more distant, the armies
of hills along them fading from green to purple, from purple to clear blue. The general appearance of
the room will be understood from the view of the north aisle reduced
from a photograph (fig. 53)[314].

.]

There are eighteen bookcases,
or desks; namely, ten on the south side of the room, and eight on
the north side (fig. 52).

The material is oak; the workmanship very rude and rough.

I will describe those on the
south side first. Each is 9 feet long by 5 feet 5¼ inches high, measured
from the floor to the top of the finial on the end; and the lower
edge of the desk on which the books lie is 2 feet 6¼ inches above
the floor; but the general plan, and the relative dimensions of the
different parts, will be best understood from the photograph of a
single desk at which a reader is seated (fig. 54), and from the elevation
of one of the ends (fig. 55, A), beside which I have placed the elevation
of one of the desks at Queens' College (B).

The photograph shews that in fixing the height of the desk above
the ground the convenience of readers has been carefully considered.

The iron bar that carries the chains is locked into the ornamental
upright, passes through a staple in the middle of the desk, and into
the upright at the opposite end, which is left plain.

This bar is half an inch in diameter, and one inch above the level of the top of the desk. It is prevented
from bending by passing through a staple fixed in the centre of the desk. A piece of ornamental
iron-work is fixed to the upright. It is made to represent a lock, but is in reality a mere plate of metal,
and the tongue, which looks as though it were intended to move, is only
an ornament, and is pierced by the keyhole. The lock is sunk in the
thickness of the wood, behind this plate, and the bar, which terminates
in a knob, is provided with two nicks, into which the bolts of the
lock are shot when the key is turned (fig. 56).

Between
each pair of desks there is a seat for the reader.

The desks on the north side of the room differ slightly from those on the south side. They are rather
larger, the ends are of a different shape and devoid of ornament (fig. 57), and there is
a wider interval between the bar and the top of the desk. It seems to me probable that the more highly ornamented
desks are those which were put in when the room was first fitted up, and that the others were added
from time to time as new books had to be accommodated.

The books are attached to the desk by the following process.

A chain was taken about 12 inches long, more or less, consisting
of long narrow links of hammered iron. These links exactly resemble,
both in shape and size, those of a chain which may still be seen in the
library of the Grammar School at Guildford, Surrey[316].

This chain, of which a piece is here figured (fig. 58), was probably
made in 1586, or only 23 years after the building of the library at
Zutphen.

It terminates, like those at Zutphen (fig. 59), in a swivel (to prevent
entanglement), attached to the ring which is strung upon the bar.

The attachment of the chain to the book was effected by means of a piece
of metal bent round so as to form a loop through which the last link of
the chain was passed.

The ends of the loop, flattened out, were attached by nail or rivet to the edge of the stout wooden
board which formed the side of the book. This mode of attachment will be best seen in the volume
which I figure next (fig. 60)--a collection of sermons printed at
Nuremberg in 1487.

It is believed to have once belonged to a Dominican House at Bamberg, in the library of which it was chained[317].

The
iron loop in this specimen (fig. 60) is fastened to what I call the right-hand board of the book; by which
I mean the board which is to the right hand of a reader when the
book lies open before him; but the selection of the right-hand or
the left-hand board depended on individual taste.

Further the mode
of attachment is never the same in two examples. The iron and rivets are
often clumsy, and do considerable damage to the leaves, by forcing
them out of shape and staining them with rust.

In this method of chaining no provision is made for removing any book from
the desk when not wanted, and placing it on a shelf beneath the desk,
as was done in some Italian modifications of the system. Each volume must lie
on the desk, attached by its chain, like a Bible on a church-lectern. The smallest
number of volumes on any desk at Zutphen is six; the largest, eleven;
the total, 316.

Most
of those on the south side of the room were printed during the first half
of the sixteenth century; those on the north side are much later, some
as late as 1630. I did not see any manuscripts.

If we now reconsider the indications preserved at Queens' College, it will, I feel sure, be
recognised that the desks at Zutphen explain them, and enable us to realise the aspect of what I conceive
to have been the most ancient method of fitting up a collegiate
or a monastic library.

When such a room first became necessary in a monastery, and furniture suitable for it was debated,
a lectern would surely suggest itself, as being used in the numerous daily services, and proving
itself singularly convenient for the support of books while they
were being read.

Another example of such fittings was once to be seen at Pembroke College,
Cambridge, in the library above the hall (fig. 48). In Dr Matthew Wren's
account of that library already quoted there is a passage which may
be translated as follows:

I would have you know that in the year
1617 the Library was completely altered and made to assume an entirely
new appearance.

This alteration was rendered necessary by the serious damage which, to our
great sorrow, we found the books had suffered--a damage which was increasing
daily--partly from the sloping form of the desks, partly from the inconvenient
weight of the chains (tum ex declivi pluteorum fabricâ, tum ex ineptâ
mole catenarum)[318].

These desks were copied at S. John's College in the same University.
A contract dated 20 June, 1516, provides that the contractor

shall make all the Desks in the Library wythin the said college of
good and substanciall and abyll Tymber of Oke mete and convenient
for the same Library, aftir and accordyng to the Library within ...
Pembroke Hall[319].

The Library here referred to was on the first floor to the south of
the Great Gate of the college.

It is now divided into chambers, but its original extent can be readily made out by its range of equidistant
windows.

The wall-spaces dividing these are 28½ inches wide, practically the
same as those at Queens' College.

At Peterhouse also a similar arrangement seems to have subsisted when
the catalogue of 1418 was made.

The very first
book, a Bible, is said to stand "in the sixth lectern on the west
side (lectrino 6^o ex parte occidentali)." The word lectrinum is unusual,
but it emphasizes the form of the desk more clearly than any other.

A splendid example of this type of case is to be seen at Lincoln (fig.
61), where three "stalls" or desks, belonging to the old library already
described[320], are still preserved.

Each is about 7 ft. long, 3 ft. broad, and 4 ft. 4 in. high to the
top of the sloping portion.

At each end, and in the centre, is a massive molded standard, 7 ft.
2 in. high, terminating in a boldly carved finial; and these three
standards are connected together by a band of open-work, of a design
similar to that of the cornice of the library.

Half way between this band and the top of the desk is the bar to carry
the chains, now of wood, but formerly of course of iron; and below
this again is a shelf 18 in. wide, projecting slightly beyond the sloping
portion of the desk.

The edge of the desk is protected by a ledge, as usual, and under it
is a second shelf extending the whole width of the piece of furniture.

What was the use of these shelves? As the bar is above the desk, not below it,
the books must have reposed, as a general rule, upon the desk, instead
of being laid on their sides on the shelf below it when not wanted
by a reader.

The chains would not have been long enough to allow of any other
arrangement.

I think, therefore, that the lower shelf must have been a constructional
contrivance, to assist in keeping the standards in their places.

The narrow upper shelf, on the other hand, was probably intended for
the convenience of the reader.

He might place on it, temporarily, any book that he was not using,
and which got in his way while he was reading one of those beside
it; or, if he was making extracts, he might set his inkstand upon it.

These desks evidently stood in the old library against the shafts
of the roof, for one of the ends has been hollowed out in each to
receive the shaft; and the finial, which is left plain on that side,
is bent over slightly, to admit it under the brace (fig. 39).

As I have now described three varieties of the lectern-system, I will
place before my readers, side by side, elevations of each of the three
(fig. 62) drawn to the same scale. It will be seen that they resemble
each other exactly in essentials.

The differences observable are accidental, and may be referred to individual
taste.

That this form of desk was recognised on the continent as typical
of library-fittings is proved by its appearance in a French translation
of the first book of the Consolation of Philosophy of Boethius, which
I had the good fortune to find in the British Museum[321] (fig. 63).

This manuscript was written in Flanders towards the end of the fifteenth
century. In such a work the library shewn requires what I may term
generalised fittings.

An eccentric peculiarity would have been quite inadmissible.

In the Stadtbibliothek of Nuremberg some of the oldest works on jurisprudence
still preserve their chains.

Each has a short chain about 12 in. long fixed on the upper edge
of the left-hand board.

The title is written on the middle of the upper edge of the right-hand board. It is obvious that
these volumes must have lain on a desk with their titles uppermost[322].

It

is probable that similar fittings were used in the library of the
Sorbonne, Paris, which was first established in 1289, with books chained
for the common convenience of the Fellows (in communem sociorum utilitatem)[323].

This library was divided into two separate collections, which formed, so to speak, two distinct libraries.
The first, called the great library, or the common library, contained the books most frequently studied.
They were chained, and could only be taken out under the most exceptional
circumstances.

A statute, dated 1321, the provisions of which recall the collegiate statutes summarised above, directed
that the best book the society possessed on each subject should be thus chained. The second division
of the library, called the small library, contained duplicates, books
rarely consulted, and generally all those of which the loan was authorised
under certain conditions[324].

The following description of this library has been given by Claude Héméré (Librarian 1638-43) in his
MS. history. This I proceed to translate:

The old library was contained under one roof. It was firmly and solidly built,
and was 120 feet long by 36 feet broad.... Each side was pierced
with 19 windows of equal size, that plenty of daylight both from the
east and the west (for this was the direction of the room) might fall
upon the desks, and fill the whole length and breadth of the library.

There were 28 desks, marked with the letters of the alphabet, five
feet high, and so arranged that they were separated by a moderate interval.
They were loaded with books, all of which were chained, that no sacrilegious
hand might [carry them off.

These chains were attached to the right-hand board of every book]
so that they might be readily thrown aside, and reading not be interfered
with.

Moreover the volumes could be opened and shut without difficulty. A reader who sat down in the
space between two desks, as they rose to a height of five feet as
I said above, neither saw nor disturbed any one else who might be
reading or writing in another place by talking or by any other interruption,
unless the other student wished it, or paid attention to any question
that might be put to him.

It was required, by the ancient rules of the library, that reading, writing,
and handling of books should go forward in complete silence[325].

This description indicates desks similar to those of Zutphen. Even the
height is the same.

A library which vividly recalls the above account, with 19 windows
on one side and probably the same number on the other, was built in 1506
for the Collège de Navarre, Paris, now the École Polytechnique[326].

My illustration (fig. 64) is from a photograph taken shortly before
its destruction in 1867.

I have calculated that it was about 108 ft. long by 30 ft. wide.

The library of the Collège d'Autun, Paris, was similarly arranged. An inventory taken 29 July, 1462,
records: "dix bancs doubles, à se seoir d'une part et d'autre, et ung poupitre; esquelz bancs et poupitre
out esté trouvez enchaisnez les livres qui s'ensuyvent, qui sont intitulez
sur la couverture d'iceulx[327]."

The catalogue enumerates 174 volumes, or rather more than 17 for each "banc"
or lectern. The expression bancs doubles is interesting, as it seems
to imply that there were at that time libraries in which bancs simples
were used; that is to say, lecterns with only one sloping surface
instead of two.

A study
of the catalogue drawn up in 1513 for the Augustinian House of S. Victor,
Paris, by Claude de Grandrue, one of the monks, shews that the same
system must have been in use there. Further, his catalogue is an excellent
specimen of the pains taken in a large monastery to describe the books
accurately, and to provide ready access to them.

A brief prefatory note informs us that the desks are arranged in three
rows, and marked with a triple series of letters. The first row is marked A,
B, C, etc.; the second AA, BB, etc.; the third AAA, BBB, etc. To each of these
letters are appended the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and so on, to shew the position
of the required volume. For instance--to take one at random--Abælardi
confessio is marked P. 13: that is, it is the thirteenth book on
the desk in the first row marked P. When the catalogue proper--in
which each manuscript is carefully described--was finished, the author
increased its usefulness by the composition of an alphabetical index[328].

How,

I shall be asked, can the form
of the bookcase or desk (pulpitum) be inferred from this catalogue?

I reply: In the first place, because there are no shelf-marks. The librarian notes the letter of the
desk, and the place of each book on it, but nothing more. Secondly,
because the number of manuscripts accommodated on each desk is so small.
There are 50 desks, and 988 manuscripts--or, an average of little more
than 19 to each.

At Zutphen
the average is exactly 18. This piece of evidence, however, is so important that I will give it in detail. The
following table, compiled by myself from the catalogue, gives the
letters used to mark the desks, and the number of manuscripts on each.

A 13 | AA 13 | AAA 15 B 21 | BB 16 | BBB 16 C 13 | CC 19 | CCC 17
D 18 | DD 18 | DDD 19 E 17 | EE 21 | EEE 17 F 20 | FF 17 | FFF 29
G 18 | GG 18 | GGG 24 H 16 | HH 17 | HHH 29 I 16 | II 23 | III 25
K 17 | KK 21 | KKK 29 L 22 | LL 21 | LLL 23 M 21 | MM 20 | MMM 26
N 18 | NN 20 | ---- O 14 | OO 13 | 269 P 19 | PP 23 | Q 22 | QQ 27
| R 14 | RR 26 | S 14 | SS 28 | T 21 | TT 24 | ----| ----| 334 | 385
|

These totals give a general total of 988 manuscripts, which, divided
by 50, makes the average number for each desk, as stated above, 19·76.

Further, my theory is supported by the positive evidence of a description of this library (unfortunately
without date) quoted by M. Delisle: "Les livres estoient couchez
et enchaisnez, sur de longs pupitres, et une allée entre deux[329]."

It is obvious that the English system of placing each lectern between
a pair of windows could not have been maintained here.

At Queens' College, Cambridge, the catalogue, dated 1472, enumerates
192 volumes, divided over 10 desks and 4 half-desks, each called a
step (gradus).

There were (avoiding fractions) 8 books on each half-desk, and 15
on each complete desk; so that by comparing the plan (fig. 50) and
elevation of a desk (fig. 51) with the views of the library at Zutphen,
a good idea of a college library in the fifteenth century can be obtained.

Before

I leave the lectern-system, I will describe two eccentric specimens
of it. The first is still to be seen at Trinity Hall, Cambridge; the
second once existed at the University of Leyden.

The library of Trinity Hall is thoroughly medieval in plan, being a
long narrow room on the first floor of the north side of the second
court, 65 feet long by 20 feet wide, with eight equidistant windows
in each side-wall, and a window of four lights in the western gable.

It was built about 1600, but the fittings are even later, having been
added between 1626 and 1645 during the mastership of Thomas Eden,
LL.D. They are therefore a deliberate return to ancient forms at
a time when a different type had been adopted elsewhere.

There are five desks and six seats on each side of the room, placed,
as usual, at right angles to the side-walls, in the inter spaces of the
windows, and in front of the windows, respectively.

Their arrangement, and the details of their construction, will be understood from the general view (fig. 65),
and from the elevation (fig. 66).

These lecterns are of oak, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 7 feet high,
measured to the top of the ornamental finial.

There is a sloping desk at the top, beneath which is a single shelf
(fig. 66, A).

The bar for the chains passes under the desk, through the two vertical ends of the case. At the end
farthest from the wall, the hasp of the lock is hinged to the bar
and secured by two keys (fig. 67).

Beneath the shelf there is at either end a slip of wood (fig. 66,
B), which indicates that there was once a moveable desk which could
be pulled out when required.

The reader
could therefore consult his convenience, and work either sitting
or standing (fig. 65).

For both these positions the heights are very suitable, and at the bottom
of the case was a plinth (fig. 66, C), on which he could set his
feet.

The seats
between each pair of desks were of course put up at the same time
as the desks themselves.

They shew an advance in comfort, being divided into two, so as to
allow support to the reader's back.

Similar desks occur in a beautiful miniature (fig. 68) from a manuscript (now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge[330])
written in France about 1480. They appear to be solid--possibly fitted
with cupboards for books under the sloping portion. No seats are
shewn, and, as a reader is standing between them consulting a book,
it may be concluded that they could only be used by students in that
position.

Lastly, I reproduce (fig. 69) a print by Jan Cornelis Woudanus, shewing
the library of the University of Leyden in 1610[331].

The bookcases were evidently contrived with the view of getting the largest
number possible into the room. Each contained a single row of books,
chained to a bar in front of the shelf; and, also for the purpose
of saving the space usually occupied by a seat, readers were obliged
to consult them standing.

There are eleven bookcases on each side of the room, each containing from 40 to 48 volumes. At
the end of the room are two cupboards, probably for manuscripts;
and to the right of the spectator is a third press, marked Legatum
Josephi Scaligeri.

He died in January, 1609. Further, as an illustration of the usual appliances for study found
in libraries at this period, and often mentioned in catalogues and
account-books, I would draw attention to the globes and maps.

I present these bookcases at this point of my researches with some
diffidence, for they can hardly be said to represent the lectern-system.

On the other
hand, they do not exactly represent any other; and I therefore submit that they may be looked at here,
as transitional specimens, bridging over the interval between the desks
we have lately been considering, and those which we shall have to
consider in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[258] The Statutes of the Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge bearing on the
care of books have been thoroughly analysed by Professor Willis in his
essay on "The Library," Arch.

     
     
     Hist. III. pp. 387-471, which I edited and
     completed. I have therefore not thought it necessary to acknowledge each
quotation separately, but I wish it to be understood that this section
of my present book is to a great extent borrowed from him.

     
     
     
     
[259] Wood, History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford, ed.

     
     
     Gutch, 4to. Oxford, 1796, Vol. II.
     Part 2, p. 910.

[260] Commiss.

     
     
     Docts. (Oxford), Vol. 1. Statutes of Merton College, Cap. 2, p. 24.

     

[261] Sketch of the Life of Walter de Merton, by Edmund [Hobhouse], Bishop
of Nelson, New Zealand, 8vo. Oxford, 1859, p. 39.

[262] Annals of University College, by Wm. Smith, 8vo. 1728, pp. 37-39.
I have compared Mr Smith's version with the Statute as printed by Anstey,
Munimenta Academica, I. 58, 59, and have made a few corrections.

[263] Commiss.

Docts. (Oxford),
Vol. I. Statutes of Oriel College, p. 14.

[264] Ibid. p. 22.

[265] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 38. De omnibus libris Domus, Munimentis,
et Chartis custodiendis.

[266] Ibid. p. 17. De Duobus Decanis et eorum officio.

[267] Commiss.
Docts. (Cambridge), II. 44. Statutum de libris Collegii.

[268] Commiss.

Docts. (Cambridge), II. 432. De libris Collegii.

[269] The words are "in libraria communi ... ad sociorum communem usum continue remanere."


For Fergus, son of Roeg, former king over Emain, who had stayed behind his charges feasting
and banqueting, came presently to Emain, fearing nothing and thinking no evil, but still warm
with the reconciliation that he had accomplished; and, coming to Emain of Maca, found the sons
of Usnac dead, with the sods still soft on their graves, and his own son also dead, Deirdré
in the hands of Concobar, and the plighted word of Fergus and his generous pledge of safety
most traitorously and basely broken; broken by Concobar, whom he himself had guarded and set
upon the throne.

Fergus changed from gladness to fierce wrath, and his countenance was altered with anger, as
he uttered his bitter indignation against Concobar to the warriors and heroes of Emain and
the men of Ulad. The warriors were parted in two by his words, swaying to the right and to
the left, as tall wheat sways before one who passes through it. For some of them sided with
Fergus, saying that he had done great wrong to put Concobar on the throne, and that even now
he should cast him down again, for the baseness and treachery of his deed; but others took
Concobar's part, saying that the first betraying was Naisi's, who stole away Deirdré,--the
hostage, as it were, of evil doom, so that he drew the doom upon himself. They further said
that Concobar was chief and ruler among them, the strong and masterful leader, able to uphold
their cause amongst men. So indeed it befell, for the sedition of Fergus and his fight to avenge
his wrong upon Concobar failed, so that he fled defeated to Meave, Queen of Connacht, at her
stronghold amid the lakes whence issues forth the Shannon.

Meave, whose power and genius overtopped her lord Ailill, received the exiled king gladly,
and put many honors upon him, holding him as the pillar of her army, with the two thousand
men of the Ulaid who came with him;--those who had fought for him against the party of Concobar.
At Cruacan, on the hillside, with the lakes of the Great River all around them, with the sun
setting red behind the Curlew hills, with green meadows and beech-woods to gladden them, Meave
and Ailill kept their court, and thence they sent many forays against Emain of Maca and Concobar,
with Fergus the fallen king ever raging in the van, and, for the wrong that was done him, working
measureless wrong on his own kingdom and the kingdom of his fathers.

After many a foray had gone forth against Ulad, crossing the level plains, it befell that Meave
and Ailill her lord disputed between them as to which had the greatest wealth; nor would either
yield until their most precious possessions had been brought and matched the one against the
other. Their jewels of gold, wonderfully wrought, and set with emeralds and beryls and red
carbuncles, were brought forth, their crescents for the brow, with hammered tracery upon them,
their necklets and torques, like twisted ribbons of gold, their bracelets and arm-rings set
with gold, their gems of silver and all their adornments, cloaks of scarlet and blue and purple,
were all brought, and no advantage in the one was found over the other. Their battle-steeds
also were brought, their horses for chariots; and likewise their herds of lowing wealth, their
sheep with soft fleeces. When the cattle were driven up before them, it was found that among
the herds of Ailill was one bull, matchless, with white horns shining and polished; and equal
to this bull was none among the herds of the queen. She would not admit her lord's advantage,
but sent forthwith to seek where another bull like the bull of Ailill might be found, and tidings
were brought to her of the brown bull of Cuailgne,--of Cuailgne named after a chief of the
Sons of Milid, fallen ages ago in the pursuit of the De Danaans, when the De Danaans retreated
before the Sons of Milid from the southern headland of Slieve Mish to the ford at green Tailten
by the Boyne, and thence further northwards to where Cuailgne of the Sons of Milid was killed.
At that same place had grown up a dwelling with a fortress, and there was the brown bull that
Meave heard the report of. She sent, therefore, and her embassy bore orders to Dairé, the owner
of the bull, asking that the bull might be sent to her for a year, and offering fifty heifers
in payment. Dairé received her messengers well, and willingly consented to her request; but
the messengers of Meave from feasting fell to drinking, from drinking to boasting; one of them
declaring that it was a small thing that Dairé had granted the request, since they themselves
would have compelled him, even unwillingly, and would have driven off the brown bull by force.
The taunt stung Dairé, after his hospitality, and in wrath he sent them forth empty-handed,
and so they came slighted to Meave.

The queen, conceiving her honor impeached, would by no means suffer the matter so to rest,
but stirred up wrath and dissension, till the armies of Connacht with their allies set forth
to sack and burn in Ulad, and at all hazards to bring the brown bull. Fergus and the men who
fought by his side went with them, and marching thus eastwards they came, after three days
march through fair lands and fertile, to the river Dee--the frontier of Ulad, and the scene
of many well-fought fights. 

But as the point and oddity may not be directly evident to all, perhaps some of our readers
will furnish us with a pithy translation for our next.

F.R. of Lavenham, to whom we are indebted for the drawing of Lavenham
Church, informs us that this fine building will shortly undergo a
thorough repair.

* * * * *

FIRE TOWERS AND BELFRIES.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

In No. 333 of the MIRROR, there is an article on the ancient round
towers in Scotland and Ireland, in which it is stated that the said
towers "have puzzled all antiquarians," that they are now generally
called fire towers and that "they certainly were not belfries."

I have often thought that antiquarians, and particularly our modern
Irish antiquarians, have affected to be puzzled about what, to the
rest of mankind, must appear to be evident enough; and this for the
purpose of making a parade of their learning, and of astonishing the
common reader by the ingenuity of their speculations.

I think I shall be able to show, that a motive of this kind must have
operated in the case of these round towers, otherwise "all the antiquarians"
could not have been so sadly puzzled about what to the rest of the
world appears a very plain matter.

The fact is, that when St. Patrick planted the Christian faith in
Ireland, in the middle of the fifth century, (he died A.D. 492,) the practice
of hanging bells in church steeples had not begun; and we know from
history, that they were first used to summon the people to worship
in A.D. 551, by a bishop of Campania; the churches, therefore, that
were erected by St. Patrick, (and he built many,) were originally
without belfries; and when the use of bells became common, it was
judged more expedient to erect a belfry detached from the church,
than by sticking it up against the side or end walls, to mar the proportions
of the original building.

This is the account of the matter given by the old Irish historians, not one of whom appears to have
been aware what "puzzlers" these round towers were to become in after ages;
and in a life of St. Kevin, of Glendaloch, (co. Wicklow,) who died A.D.
628, we are told that "the holy bishop did," a short time before
his death, "erect a bell-house (cloig-theach) contiguous to the church
formerly erected by him, in which he placed a bell, to the glory of
God, and for the good of his own soul."

I am not unaware, in giving you the above quotation, that "all the antiquarians,"
and particularly those of Scotland, have long since decided, that
in every matter connected with the ancient history of Ireland, her
native historians (many of whom were eye-witnesses of the facts they
relate) are on no account to be credited; and that the safest way
of dealing with those chroniclers is, in every thing, to take for
granted exactly the reverse of what they may at any time assert.

In deference, therefore, to such high authorities, I shall waive any advantage which I might claim
on account of a quotation from the works of a native historian, and
proceed to show, from the reasonableness of the thing itself, that
those towers which you state "were certainly never belfries," were
in fact belfries, and were never any thing else.

First.--They are all situated within a few yards of some ancient church,
and which church is invariably without a steeple.

Secondly.--It is impossible to conceive, from their slender shape,
their great height, and their contiguity to the church, for what other
purpose they could have been intended, having, to a spectator inside,
who looks up to the top, exactly the appearance of an enormous gun-barrel.

Thirdly.--That

in all of them now entire, the holes, for the purpose of receiving
the beam to support the bell, remain; and that in one at least, that
upon Tory Island, co. Donegal, the beam itself may be seen at this
day.

Fourthly, and which appears to me more conclusive than all the rest,
that these towers, in every part of Ireland, are, to this day, called
in Irish by the name of clogach, (cloig-theach,) that is, bell-house,
and that they are never called (in Irish at least) by any other name
whatever.

H.S.

P.S. We have heard a good deal of late of a chimney or high tower
erected at Bow, by the East London Water Company, on account of its
having been erected without any outside scaffolding.

It is remarkable, that the traditions of all the people in the neighbourhood of the round towers in
Ireland, agree in stating that they were built in the same manner.

*
* * * *

BELLE SAVAGE INN.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Observing in the daily papers an extract
from the MIRROR respecting the Belle Savage Inn, I copy you an advertisement
out of the London Gazette for February, 1676, respecting that place,
which appears to have been called "ancient" so long back as that period.

LEONARD

WILSON.

"An antient inn, called the Bell Savage Inn, situate on Ludgate Hill, London, consisting of about 40
rooms, with good cellarage, stabling for 100 horses, and other good accommodations,
is to be lett at a yearly rent, or the lease sold, with or without the
goods in the house.

Enquire at the said inn, or of Mr. Francis Griffith, a scrivener,
in Newgate-street, near Newgate, and you may be fully informed."

* * * * *

THE FLOWER AND THE OAK.

IMITATED FROM THE ITALIAN.

(For the Mirror.)

A flower beheld a lofty oak, And thus in mournful accents spoke; "The
verdure of that tree will last, Till Autumn's loveliest days are past,
Whilst I with brightest colours crown'd, Shall soon lie withering
on the ground."

The lofty oak this answer made: "The fairest flowers the soonest
fade."

* * * * *

FROM ZAPPI.

Cries Phillis to her shepherd swain, "Why is Love painted without
eyes?"

The youth from flattery can't refrain, And to the fair one quick
replies: "Those lovely eyes which now are thine, In young Love's face
were wont to shine."

ANNA.

* * * * *

CROMLEHS.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

In No. 328 you have given an account
of a cromleh in Anglesea.

Perhaps it may not be amiss to inform you that the word cromlech,
or cromleh, is derived from the Welsh words crom, feminine of crwm,
crooked, and lech, a flat stone.

There are some cromlehs in Carmarthenshire and Pembrokeshire, which
are supposed to have been altars for sacrifices before the Christian
era.

W.H.

* * * * *

THE ALPINE HORN.

(For the Mirror.)

The Alpine Horn is an instrument made of the bark of the cherry-tree,
and like a speaking-trumpet, is used to convey sounds to a great distance.
When the last rays of the sun gild the summit of the Alps, the shepherd
who inhabits the highest peak of those mountains, takes his horn,
and cries with a loud voice, "Praised be the Lord." As soon as the
neighbouring shepherds hear him they leave their huts and repeat these
words.

The sounds are prolonged many minutes, while the echoes of the mountains,
and grottoes of the rocks, repeat the name of God.

Imagination cannot picture any thing more solemn, or sublime, than
this scene.

During the silence that succeeds, the shepherds bend their knees,
and pray in the open air, and then retire to their huts to rest.

The sun-light gilding the tops of those stupendous mountains, upon
which the blue vault of heaven seems to rest, the magnificent scenery
around, and the voices of the shepherds sounding from rock to rock
the praise of the Almighty, must fill the mind of every traveller
with enthusiasm and awe.

INA.

* * * * *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY

* * * * *

ENGLISH GARDENING.

Mr. Corbett has just published a useful little volume, entitled the English Gardener, which
is, perhaps, one of the most practical books ever printed. At present we must confine our extracts
to a few useful passages; but we purpose a more extended notice of this very interesting volume.

Laying
out Gardens.

In the work of laying-out, great care ought to be taken with regard to straightness and distances,
and particularly as to the squareness of every part.

To make lines perpendicular, and perfectly so, is, indeed, no difficult
matter when one knows how to do it; but one must know how to do it,
before one can do it at all. If the gardener understand this much of geometry,
he will do it without any difficulty; but if he only pretend to understand
the matter, and begin to walk backward and forward, stretching out
lines and cocking his eye, make no bones with him; send for a bricklayer,
and see the stumps driven into the ground yourself.

The four outside lines being laid down with perfect truth, it must be a
bungling fellow indeed that cannot do the rest; but if they be only
a little askew, you have a botch in your eye for the rest of your
life, and a botch of your own making too.

Gardeners seldom want for confidence in their own abilities; but
this affair of raising perpendiculars upon a given line is a thing
settled in a moment: you have nothing to do but to say to the gardener,
"Come, let us see how you do it."

He has but one way in which he can do it; and, if he do not immediately begin to work in that way, pack
him off to get a bricklayer, even a botch in which trade will perform the work to the truth of a hair.

Seeds.

I
incline to the opinion, that we should try seeds as our ancestors
tried witches; not by fire, but by water; and that, following up their
practice, we should reprobate and destroy all that do not readily
sink.

Melons.

It is a received opinion, a thing taken for granted, an axiom in horticulture, that melon seed is
the better for being old.

Mr. Marshall says, that it ought to be "about four years old, though
some prefer it much older." And he afterwards observes, that "if
new seed only can be had, it should be carried a week or two in the
breeches-pocket, to dry away some of the more watery particles!"

If age be a recommendation in rules as well as in melon-seed, this rule has it; for English authors
published it, and French authors laughed at it, more than a century past!

Those who can afford to have melons raised in their gardens, can afford
to keep a conjuror to raise them; and a conjuror will hardly condescend
to follow common sense in his practice.

This would be lowering the profession in the eyes of the vulgar, and,
which would be very dangerous, in the eyes of his employer. However,
a great deal of this stuff is traditionary; and how are we to find
the conscience to blame a gardener for errors inculcated by gentlemen
of erudition!

Sowing Seeds.

I do hope that it is unnecessary for me to say, that sowing according
to the moon is wholly absurd and ridiculous; and that it arose solely
out of the circumstance, that our forefathers, who could not read,
had neither almanack nor calendar to guide them, and who counted by
moons and festivals, instead of by months, and days of months.

Brussels Sprouts.

It is, most likely, owing to negligence that we hardly ever see such
a thing as real Brussels sprouts in England; and it is said that it
is pretty nearly the same in France, the proper care being taken nowhere,
apparently, but in the neighbourhood of Brussels.

Horse-Radish.

After horse-radish has borne seed once or twice, its root becomes hard,
brown on the outside, not juicy when it is scraped, and eats more
like little chips than like a garden vegetable; so that, at taverns
and eating-houses, there frequently seems to be a rivalship on the
point of toughness between the horse-radish and the beef-steak; and
it would be well if this inconvenient rivalship never discovered itself
any where else.

Eating Mushrooms.

I once ate about three spoonsful at table at Mr. Timothy Brown's, at Peckham,
which had been cooked, I suppose, in the usual way; but I had not
long eaten them before my whole body, face, hands, and all, was covered
with red spots or pimples, and to such a degree, and coming on so
fast, that the doctor who attended the family was sent for.

He thought nothing of it, gave me a little draught of some sort,
and the pimples went away; but I attributed it then to the mushrooms.

The next year, I had mushrooms in my own garden at Botley, and I determined
to try the experiment whether they would have the same effect again;
but, not liking to run any risk, I took only a teaspoonful, or, rather,
a French coffee-spoonful, which is larger than a common teaspoon.

They had just the same effect, both as to sensation and outward appearance!
From that day to this, I have never touched mushrooms, for I conclude
that there must be something poisonous in that which will so quickly
produce the effects that I have described, and on a healthy and hale
body like mine; and, therefore, I do not advise any one to cultivate
these things.

Peas.

The late king, George the Third, reigned so long, that his birthday formed
a sort of season with gardeners; and, ever since I became a man, I can recollect
that it was always deemed rather a sign of bad gardening if there were not
green peas in the garden fit to gather on the fourth of June. It is
curious that green peas are to be had as early in Long Island, and
in the seaboard part of the state of New Jersey, as in England, though
not sowed there, observe, until very late in April, while ours, to
be very early, must be sowed in the month of December or January.

It is still more curious, that, such is the effect of habit and tradition,
that, even when I was last in America (1819), people talked just
as familiarly as in England about having green peas on the king's
birth-day, and were just as ambitious for accomplishing the object;
and I remember a gentleman who had been a republican officer during
the revolutionary war, who told me that he always got in his garden
green peas fit to eat on old Uncle George's birth-day.

Cider.

Mr.
Platt had a curious mode of making strong cider in America. In the month
of January or February, he placed a number of hogsheads of cider upon stands out
of doors. The frost turned to ice the upper part of the contents of the
hogshead, and a tap drew off from the bottom the part which was not
frozen. This was the spirituous part, and was as strong as the very
strongest of beer that can be made. The frost had no power over this part; but
the lighter part which was at the top it froze into ice. This, when thawed,
was weak cider. This method of getting strong cider would not do
in a country like this, where the frosts are never sufficiently severe.

Keeping

Apples.

When
there is frost, all that you have to do, is to keep the apples in
a state of total darkness until some days after a complete thaw has
come.

In America they are frequently frozen as hard as stones; if they thaw
in the light, they rot; but if they thaw in darkness, they not only do not rot,
but lose very little of their original flavour. This may be new to the
English reader; but he may depend upon it that the statement is correct.

To
Keep Chestnuts.

To preserve chestnuts, so as to have them to sow in the spring, or
to eat through the winter, you must make them perfectly dry after
they come out of their green husk; then put them into a box or a barrel
mixed with, and covered over by, fine and dry sand, three gallons
of sand to one gallon of chestnuts.

If there be maggots in any of the chestnuts, they will come out of
the chestnuts and work up through the sand to get to the air; and
thus you have your chestnuts sweet and sound and fresh.

Plums.

The Magnum Bonums are fit for nothing but tarts and sweetmeats. Magnum
is right enough; but as to bonum, the word has seldom been so completely
misapplied.

British Wines.

That which we call currant wine, is neither more nor less than red-looking,
weak rum, the strength coming from the sugar; and gooseberry wine
is a thing of the same character, and, if the fruit were of no other
use than this, one might wish them to be extirpated.

People deceive themselves.

The thing is called wine, but it is rum; that is to say, an extract from sugar.

Birds.

The
wild pigeons in America live, for about a month, entirely upon the buds
of the sugar-maple, and are killed by hundreds of thousands, by persons
who erect bough-houses, and remain in a maple wood with guns and powder and shot
for that purpose. If we open the craw of one of these little birds, we find
in it green stuff of various descriptions, and, generally, more or
less of grass, and, therefore, it is a little too much to believe,
that, in taking away our buds, they merely relieve us from the insects
that would, in time, eat us up.

Birds are exceedingly cunning in their generation; but, luckily for
us gardeners, they do not know how to distinguish between the report
of a gun loaded with powder and shot, and one that is only loaded
with powder.

Very frequent firing with powder will alarm them so that they will
quit the spot, or, at least, be so timid as to become comparatively little mischievous.

*
* * * *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

* * * * *

THE DANDY TRAVELLER.

There is a class of travelling oddities--the dandy voyageurs of Britain,
who, teeming with the proud consciousness of their excellence in comparison
with the rest of human kind, swoln with self-sufficiency, float like
empty bubbles on the water's surface, and who seem as if they would
break and be dissolved by contact with a vulgar touch.

They contrive to swim by means of their air-blown vanity until they
come into concussion with some material object, and are at once reduced
to their proper level, and for ever annihilated.

Their country is London; their domicile Regent-street; thence they
would never travel, had they their wills,--not but they would like
to see Paris, and move at Longschamps, or admire its beauties in an
equipage à D'Aumont; but the horrors attendant upon such an enterprise
are too formidable gratuitously to be encountered.

It is only when a dip at the Fishmonger's has been rather too often
tried, or Stultz's billets-doux have been repeated with increasing
ardour on the part of the Tailor-lover until he delegates the maintenance
of his baronial purse to some dandy-detesting attorney, that they
feel it expedient to brave the dangers of sea and land, and, unscrewing
their brass spurs, folding up their mustachios in a port-feuille,
they hasten them from life and love, and London, and set them down
at Meurice's, the creatures of another element; not less new to all
things around them, than all things there are new to them.

It was not long since I met one at the table-d'hote of Mr. Money,
the hospitable but expensive owner of Les Trois Couronnes, at Vevay,
in Switzerland.

A large party had assembled, composed of almost
every European nation; and we had just commenced our dinner, when we
were intruded upon by an Exquisite--a creature something between the
human species and a man-milliner--a seven months' child of fashion--one
who had been left an orphan by manliness and taste, and no longer remembered
his lost parents. Never can I forget the stare of Baron Pougens,
(a Swiss by birth, but a Russian noble) as this specimen of elegance,
with mincing step and gait, moved onward, something like a new member tripping
it to the table to take his oaths. How he had got so far from Grange's,
I really cannot say; but he had the policy of assurance in his favour;
and in his own idea, at the least, was what I heard a poor devil of
a candle-snuffer once denominate George Frederic Cooke, the tragedian,--"a
rare specimen of exalted humanity;" and the actor was certainly in
a rare spirit of exaltation at the moment. His delicate frame was enveloped
by a dandy harness, so admirably ordered and adjusted, that he moved
in fear of involving his Stultz in the danger of a plait; his kid-clad
fingers scarcely supported the weight of his yellow-lined Leghorn;
all that was man about him, was in his spurs and mustachios; and,
even with them, he seemed there a moth exposed to an Alpine blast,--some
mamma's darling, injudiciously and cruelly abandoned to the risk of
cold, in a land where Savory and Moore were yet unheard of, "Beppo
in London" wholly unknown, Hoby unesteemed, Gunter misprized, and
where George Brummell had never, never trod. After having bestowed a wild
inexpressive stare at the cannibals assembled, male and female,--depositing
his Vyse, running his digits through his perfumed hair, raising his
shirt-collar so as to form an angle of forty-five with his purple Gros de
Naples cravat, and applying his gold-turned snuff-box to his nose,
Money (who has lived long in England, and speaks its language well)
ventured to address him, by demanding if he should place a cover for
him. "Sar!--your--appellation--if--you please?" the drawling and
affected response of the fop. "Money, Sir." "the sign of the place--the
thing--the auberge?" "The Three Crowns, Sir." "Money of the country,
I presume!--Good--stop--put that down--Mem:" and he took his tablets from
his pocket. "Money--Three Crowns--Capital that--will do for Dibdin,--if
not, give it Theodore Hook. And the name of your--your town, my man?"
"Vevay, Sir!" "And that liquid concern I see from the windar?" "The Lake,
Sir--the Lake of Geneva." "Good gracious! all Geneva?" "Otherwise
termed the Leman, Sir." "Lemon! ha! a sort of gin-punch, I presume--acidulated
blue-ruin--Vastly vulgar, by Petersham--only fit for the Cider-cellar,
Three Crowns--And that--that--white thing there on the other side
of the punch-bowl, Money?" "That is Gin-goulph, Sir." "Gin-gulp! appropriate
certainly, but de-ci-ded-ly--low." "Will you please, Sir, to dine? dinner
is on the table."
 Yet through the great might of Cuculain the Ulaid prevailed, and
Cairpré the King of Tara was slain. After the battle, Concobar spoke thus: "There were three
sons of Ros Ruad the king--Find in Alend, Ailill in Cruac, Cairpré in Tara; together they performed
their deeds of valor, the three brothers in every strife; together they used to give their
battle. They were three pillars of gold about their hills, abiding in strength; great is their
loss since the third son has fallen."

VII.

FIND AND OSSIN.

A.D. 200--290.

Seventeen centuries ago, two hundred summers after the death of Cuculain the hero, came the
great and wonderful time of Find the son of Cumal, Ossin the son of Find, and Find's grandson
Oscur. It was a period of growth and efflorescence; the spirit and imaginative powers of the
people burst forth with the freshness of the prime. The life of the land was more united, coming
to a national consciousness.

The five kingdoms were now clearly defined, with Meath, in the central plain, predominant over
the others, and in a certain sense ruling all Ireland from the Hill of Tara. The code of honor
was fixed; justice had taken well-defined forms; social life had ripened to genial urbanity.
The warriors were gathered together into something like a regular army, a power rivaling the
kings. Of this army, Find, son of Cumal, was the most renowned leader--a warrior and a poet,
who embodied in himself the very genius of the time, its fresh naturalness, its ripeness, its
imagination. No better symbol of the spirit of his age could be found than Find's own "Ode
to Spring":

"May-day! delightful time! How beautiful the color! The blackbirds sing their full lay. Would
that Laigay were here! The cuckoos call in constant strains. How welcome is ever the noble
brightness of the season. On the margin of the leafy pools the summer swallows skim the stream.
Swift horses seek the pools. The heath spreads out its long hair. The white, gentle cotton-grass
grows. The sea is lulled to rest. Flowers cover the earth."

Find's large and imaginative personality is well drawn in one of the poems of his golden-tongued
son Ossin, though much of the beauty of Ossin's form is lost in the change of tongue:

     "Six thousand gallant men of war
     We sought the rath o'er Badamar;
     To the king's palace home we bent
     Our way. His bidden guests we went.
         'Twas Clocar Fair,
         And Find was there,
         The Fians from the hills around
         Had gathered to the race-course ground.
     From valley deep and wooded glen
     Fair Munster sent its mighty men;
     And Fiaca, Owen's son, the king,
     Was there the contest witnessing.
     'Twas gallant sport! With what delight
     Leaped thousand pulses at the sight.
         How all hearts bound
         As to the ground
     First are brought forth the Fian steeds,
     Then those from Luimnea's sunny meads.
     Three heats on Mac Mareda's green
     They run; and foremost still is seen
     Dill Mac Decreca's coal-black steed.
     At Crag-Lochgur he takes the lead.

     "His is the day--and, lo! the king
     The coal-black steed soliciting
     From Dill the Druid!--'Take for it
     A hundred beeves; for it is fit
     The black horse should be mine to pay
     Find for his deeds of many a day.'

     "Then spoke the Druid, answering
     His grandson, Fiaca the king:
     'Take my blessing; take the steed,
     For the hero's fitting meed:
     Give it for thy honor's sake.'
     And to Find the King thus spake

     "'Hero, take the swift black steed,
     Of thy valor fitting meed;
     And my car, in battle-raid
     Gazed on by the foe with fear;
     And a seemly steed for thy charioteer.
     Chieftain, be this good sword thine,
     Purchased with a hundred kine,
     In thine hand be it our aid.

     Take this spear, whose point the breath
     Of venomed words has armed with death,
     And the silver-orbèd shield,
     Sunbeam of the battlefield!
     And take with thee
     My grayhounds three,
     Slender and tall,
     Bright-spotted all,
     Take them with thee, chieftain bold,
     With their chainlets light
     Of the silver white,
     And their neck-rings of the tawny gold.
     Slight not thou our offering,
     Son of Cumal, mighty king!"

     "Uprose Find our chieftain bold,
     Stood before the Fian ranks,
     To the king spoke gracious thanks,
     Took the gifts the monarch gave;
     Then each to each these champions brave
     Glorious sight to see and tell,
     Spoke their soldier-like farewell!

     "The way before us Find led then;
     We followed him, six thousand men,
     From out the Fair, six thousand brave,
     To Caicer's house of Cloon-na-Dave.

     "Three nights, three days, did all of us
     Keep joyous feast in Caicer's house;
     Fifty rings of the yellow gold
     To Caicer Mac Caroll our chieftain told;
     As many cows and horses gave
     To Caicer Mac Caroll our chieftain brave. Survey);
     both works contain references
     to original papers.

     
     
     
     

     
     
     (J. A. H.)
     
     BAJOUR, or BAJAUR, a small district peopled by Pathan races of Afghan origin,
in the North-West Frontier Province of India. It is about 45 m. long
by 20. broad, and lies at a high level to the east of the Kunar valley,
from which it is separated by a continuous line of rugged frontier
hills, forming a barrier easily passable at one or two points.

     
     
     Across this barrier the old road from Kabul
     to India ran before the Khyber
     Pass was adopted
     
     as the main route. Bajour is inhabited
     almost exclusively by Tarkani (Tarkalanri)
     Pathans, sub-divided into Mamunds, Isazai,
     and Ismailzai, numbering together with
     a few Mohmands, Utmauzais, &c., about
     100,000. To the south of Bajour
     is the wild mountain district of the Mohmands,
     a Pathan race. To the east, beyond the
     Panjkora river, are the hills of Swat, dominated
     by another Pathan race. To the north
     is an intervening watershed
     between Bajour and the
     small state of Dir; and it is over this watershed and through the valley
of Dir that the new road from Malakand and the Punjab runs to Chitral.

The drainage of Bajour flows eastwards, starting from the eastern
slopes of the dividing ridge which overlooks the Kunar and terminating
in the Panjkora river, so that the district lies on a slope tilting
gradually downwards from the Kunar ridge to the Panjkora.

     Nawagai is the chief town of Bajour, and the
     khan of Nawagai is under British protection for the
     safeguarding of the Chitral road. Jandol,
     one of the northern valleys of Bajour, has
     ceased to be of political importance since
     the failure of its chief, Umra Khan, to appropriate
     to himself Bajour, Dir, and a great
     part of the Kunar valley. It was the
     active hostility between the amir of Kabul
     (who claimed sovereignty of the same districts)
     and Umra Khan that led, firstly to
     the demarcation agreement of
     1893 which fixed the boundary of Afghanistan
     in Kunar; and, secondly, to the invasion
     of Chitral by Umra Khan (who was no
     
     party to the boundary settlement) and the siege of the Chitral fort in 1895.

An
interesting feature in Bajour topography is a mountain spur from the Kunar
range, which curving eastwards culminates in the well-known peak of Koh-i-Mor,
which is visible from the Peshawar valley. It was here, at the foot
of the mountain, that Alexander found the ancient city of Nysa and
the Nysaean colony, traditionally said to have been founded by Dionysus.

The
Koh-i-Mor has been identified as the Meros of Arrian's history--the
three-peaked mountain from which the god issued. It is also interesting
to find that a section of the Kafir community of Kamdesh still claim
the same Greek origin as did the Nysaeans; still chant hymns to the
god who sprang from Gir Nysa (the mountain of Nysa); whilst they maintain
that they originally migrated from the Swat country to their present
habitat in the lower Bashgol.

     
     
     
     
     Long after Buddhism had spread
     to Chitral, Gilgit, Dir and Swat; whilst
     Ningrahar was still full of monasteries and temples, and the Peshawar
valley was recognized as the seat of Buddhist learning, the Kafirs
or Nysaeans held their own in Bajour and in the lower Kunar valley,
where Buddhism apparently never prevailed.

     It is probable that the invader Baber
     (who has much to say about Bajour) fought
     
     them there in the early years of the 16th century, when on his way
to found the Mogul dynasty of India centuries after Buddhism has been
crushed in northern India by the destroyer Mahmud.

The Gazetteers and Reports of the Indian government contain nearly all
the modern information available about Bajour. The autobiography
of Baber (by Leyden and Erskine) gives interesting details about
the country in the 16th century.

For the connexion between the Kafirs and the ancient Nysaeans of Swat, see R. G. S. Journal, vol. vii., 1896.

(T. H. H.*)

BAJZA, JOSEPH (1804-1858), Hungarian poet and critic, was born at
Szücsi in 1804. His earliest contributions were made to Kisfaludy's
Aurora, a literary paper of which he was editor from 1830 to 1837. He
also wrote largely in the Kritische Blätter, the Athenaeum, and the
Figyelmezö or Observer.

His criticisms on dramatic art were considered the best of these miscellaneous writings. In 1830
he published translations of some foreign dramas, Ausländische Bühna,
and in 1835 a collection of his own poems.

In 1837 he was made director of the newly established national theatre
at Pest.

He then, for some years, devoted himself to historical writing,
and published in succession the Historical Library (Törtereti Könyvtár),
6 vols., 1843-1845; the Modern Plutarch (Uj Plutarch), 1845-1847;
and the Universal History (Világtörétet), 1847.

These works are to some extent translations from German authors.

In 1847 Bajza edited the journal of the opposition, Ellenör, at Leipzig,
and in March 1848 Kossuth made him editor of his paper, Kossuth Hirlapja.

In 1850 he was attacked with brain disease and died in 1858.

BAKALAI (BAKALÉ, BANGOUENS), a Bantu negroid tribe inhabiting a wide
tract of French Congo between the river Ogowé and 2° S. They appear
to be immigrants from the south-east, and have been supposed to be
connected racially with the Galoa, one of the Mpongwe tribes and the
chief river-people of the Ogowé.

The Bakalai have suffered much from the incursions of their neighbours
the Fang, also arrivals from the south-east, and it may be that they
migrated to their present abode under pressure from this people at
an earlier date.

They are keen hunters and were traders in slaves and rubber; the slave
traffic has been prohibited by the French authorities.

Their women display considerable ingenuity in dressing their hair, often
taking a whole day to arrange a coiffure; the hair is built up on
a substructure of clay and a good deal of false hair incorporated;
a coat of red, green or yellow pigment often completes the effect.

The same colours are used to decorate the hut doors. The villages,
some of which are fortified with palisades, are usually very dirty;
chiefs and rich men own plantations which are situated at some distance
from the village and to which their womenfolk are sent in times of
war.

     
     The Bakalai of Lake Isanga cremate their dead;
     those of the Upper Ogowé throw the
     bodies into the river, with the exception of those
         killed in war. The body of a chief is placed secretly
     in a hut erected in the depths
     
     of the forest, and the village is deserted
         for that night, in
     
     some cases altogether; the slaves
     
         of the deceased are (or were) sacrificed, and
     his wives scourged and secluded in huts
     for a week. "Natural" deaths are attributed to
     the machinations of a sorcerer, and
         the poison-ordeal is often practised.
     Of their social organization little is known,
     but it appears that nearly all individuals
     
         refrain from eating the flesh of some particular
     animal.
     
     BAKE, JAN (1787-1864), Dutch philologist and critic,
         was born at Leiden on the 1st of September
     1787, and from 1817 to 1854 he was professor
     of Greek and Roman literature at the university.
     He died on the 26th of March 1864. His principal
         works are:--Posidonii Rhodii Reliquiae
     Doctrinae (1810); Cleomedis Circularis Doctrina
     de Sublimitate (1820); Bibliotheca
     [v.03 p.0227] Critica Nova (1825-1831) and Scholica Hypomnemata
         (1837-1862), a collection of essays dealing mainly
     with Cicero and the Attic orators; Cicero,
     De Legibus (1842) and De Oratore (1863);
     the Rhetorica of Apsines and Longinus
         (1849).
     
     
     
         His biography was written (in Dutch) by
     his pupil Bakhuizen van der Brink
     (1865); for an appreciation of his services
     to classical literature see L. Müller,
         Geschichte
     
     der klassischen Philologie in den Niederlanden
     (1869).
         
     BAKER, SIR BENJAMIN (1840-1907), English engineer, was
     born near Bath in 1840, and, after
     receiving his early training in a South Wales ironworks,
       became associated with Sir John Fowler in London.
     
     He took part in the construction of the Metropolitan
     railway (London), and in designing the cylindrical vessel in which Cleopatra's
Needle, now standing on the Thames Embankment, London, was brought over
from Egypt to England in 1877-1878. By this time he had already made himself
an authority on bridge-construction, and shortly afterwards he was engaged
on the work which made his reputation with the general public--the
design and erection of the Forth Bridge.

On the completion of this undertaking in 1890 he was made K.C.M.G., and
in the same year the Royal Society recognized his scientific attainments by electing
him one of its fellows. Twelve years later at the formal opening of the Assuan
dam, for which he was consulting-engineer, he was created K.C.B. Sir Benjamin
Baker, who also had a large share in the introduction of the system widely
adopted in London of constructing intra-urban railways in deep tubular
tunnels built up of cast iron segments, obtained an extremely large professional
practice, ranging over almost every branch of civil engineering,
and was more or less directly concerned with most of the great engineering
achievements of his day.

He was also the author of many papers on engineering subjects. He died
at Pangbourne, Berks, on the 19th of May 1907.

BAKER, HENRY (1698-1774), English naturalist, was born in London on
the 8th of May 1698.

After serving an apprenticeship with a bookseller, he devised a system of instructing the deaf and dumb,
by the practice of which he made a considerable fortune. It brought him to the notice of Daniel
Defoe, whose youngest daughter Sophia he married in 1729. A year before,
under the name of Henry Stonecastle, he was associated with Defoe
in starting the Universal Spectator and Weekly Journal. In 1740 he was
elected fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and of the Royal Society.

He contributed many memoirs to the Transactions of the latter society, and in 1744 received the Copley
gold medal for microscopical observations on the crystallization of saline particles. He was one of the
founders of the Society of Arts in 1754, and for some time acted as its secretary. He died in
London on the 25th of November 1774. Among his publications were The Microscope made Easy (1743),
Employment for the Microscope (1753), and several volumes of verse,
original and translated, including The Universe, a Poem intended to
restrain the Pride of Man (1727).

His name is perpetuated by the Bakerian lecture of the Royal Society,
for the foundation of which he left by will the sum of £100.

BAKER, SIR RICHARD (1568-1644/5), author of the Chronicle of the Kings
of England and other works, was probably born at Sissinghurst in Kent,
and entered Hart Hall, Oxford, as a commoner in 1584. He left the university
without taking a degree, studied law in London and afterwards travelled in
Europe.

In 1593 he was chosen member of parliament for Arundel, in 1594 his university conferred upon him the
degree of M.A., and in 1597 he was elected to parliament as the representative
of East Grinstead.

In 1603 he was knighted by King James I., in 1620 he acted as high
sheriff at Oxfordshire where he owned some property, and soon afterwards
he married Margaret, daughter of Sir George Mainwaring, of Ightfield,
Shropshire.

By making himself responsible for some debts of his wife's family, he was reduced to great poverty, which
led to the seizure of his Oxfordshire property in 1625.

Quite penniless, he took refuge in the Fleet prison in 1635, and was still in confinement when he
died on the 18th of February 1644 (1645). He was buried in the church
of St Bride, Fleet Street, London.

During his imprisonment Baker spent his time mainly in writing.

His chief work is the Chronicle of the Kings of England from the Time of the Romans' Government
unto the Death of King James (1643, and many subsequent editions). It was translated
into Dutch in 1649, and was continued down to 1658 by Edward Phillips,
a nephew of John Milton.

For many years the Chronicle was extremely popular, but owing to numerous
inaccuracies its historical value is very slight. Baker also wrote Cato
Variegatus or Catoes Morall Distichs, Translated and Paraphrased
by Sir Richard Baker, Knight (London, 1636); Meditations on the Lord's
Prayer (1637); Translation of New Epistles by Moonsieur D'Balzac (1638);
Apologie for Laymen's Writing in Divinity, with a Short Meditation
upon the Fall of Lucifer (1641); Motives for Prayer upon the seaven
dayes of ye weeke (1642); a translation of Malvezzi's Discourses upon
Cornelius Tacitus (1642), and Theatrum Redivivum, or The Theatre Vindicated,
a reply to the Histrio-Mastix of William Prynne (1642).

He also wrote Meditations upon several of the psalms of David, which have been collected and edited by A. B. Grosart
(London, 1882).

See J. Granger, Biographical History of England to the Revolution (London,
1804); Biographia Britannica, corrected by A. Kippis (London, 1778-1793).

BAKER,

SIR SAMUEL WHITE (1821-1893), English explorer, was born in London on the
8th of June 1821. He was educated partly in England and partly in Germany. His father,
a West India merchant, destined him for a commercial career, but
a short experience of office work proved him to be entirely unsuited
to such a life.

On the 3rd of August 1843 he married Henrietta Biddulph Martin, daughter
of the rector of Maisemore, Gloucestershire, and after two years
in Mauritius the desire for travel took him in 1846 to Ceylon, where
in the following year he founded an agricultural settlement at Nuwara
Eliya, a mountain health-resort.

Aided by his brother, he brought emigrants thither from England, together with choice breeds of cattle,
and before long the new settlement was a success. During his residence
in Ceylon he published, as a result of many adventurous hunting expeditions,
The Rifle and the Hound in Ceylon (1853), and two years later Eight
Years' Wanderings in Ceylon (1855).

After a journey to Constantinople and the Crimea in 1856, he found an outlet for his restless energy
by undertaking the supervision of the construction of a railway across
the Dobrudja, connecting the Danube with the Black Sea.

After its completion he spent some months in a tour in south-eastern Europe and Asia Minor. It was
during this time that he met in Hungary the lady who (in 1860) became
his second wife, Florence, daughter of Finnian von Sass, his first
wife having died in 1855.

In March 1861 he started upon his first tour of exploration in central
Africa. After a year spent on the Sudan-Abyssinian border, during which
time he learnt Arabic, explored the Atbara and other Nile tributaries,
and proved that the Nile sediment came from Abyssinia, he arrived
at Khartum, leaving that city in December 1862 to follow up the course
of the White Nile.

Two months later at Gondokoro he met Speke and Grant, who, after discovering the source of the Nile, were following
the river to Egypt. Their success made him fear that there was nothing
left for his own expedition to accomplish; but the two explorers
generously gave him information which enabled him, after separating
from them, to achieve the discovery of Albert Nyanza, of whose existence
credible assurance had already been given to Speke and Grant.

Baker first sighted the lake on the 14th of March 1864. After some time
spent in the exploration of the neighbourhood, during which Baker demonstrated
that the Nile flowed through the Albert Nyanza--of whose size he formed
an exaggerated idea--he started upon his return journey, and reached
Khartum after many checks in May 1865.

In the following October he returned to England with his wife, who had
accompanied him throughout the whole of the perilous and arduous journey.
In recognition of the achievements by which Baker had indissolubly linked
his name [v.03 p.0228] with the solution of the problem of the Nile
sources, the Royal Geographical Society awarded him its gold medal,
and a similar distinction was bestowed on him by the Paris Geographical
Society. In August 1866 he was knighted. In 1868 he published a popular
story called Cast up by the Sea. In 1869 he attended the prince of
Wales, afterwards King Edward VII., in a tour through Egypt.

In the same year, at the request of the khedive Ismail, Baker undertook the command of a military expedition
to the equatorial regions of the Nile, with the object of suppressing
the slave-trade there and opening the way to commerce and civilization.

Before starting from Cairo with a force of 1700 Egyptian troops--many of them
discharged convicts--he was given the rank of pasha and major-general
in the Ottoman army.

Lady Baker,
as before, accompanied him. The khedive appointed him governor-general
of the new territory for four years at a salary of £10,000 a year;
and it was not until the expiration of that time that Baker returned
to Cairo, leaving his work to be carried on by the new governor, Colonel
Charles George Gordon.

 Poets had sung their deeds of valor, and the loves of fair women, and the magical
beauty of the world, through hardly changing ages. The heroes of fame were but the best fruit
in the garden of the nation's life. So ripe was that life, more than two thousand years ago,
that it is hard to say what they did not know, of the things which make for amenity and comity.
The colors of the picture are everywhere rich, yet perfectly harmonized.

The earliest forms of Irish writing seem to have come from the Baltic runes, and these, in
their turn, from an old Greek script of twenty-five hundred years ago. The runes spread as
far as the Orkneys, and there they were well within the horizon of Ireland's knowledge. Nothing
would be more natural than the keeping of written records in Erin for three or four hundred
years before Cuculain's birth, nineteen hundred years ago.

The arts of life were very perfect; the gold-work of that time is unsurpassed--has never been
surpassed. At a far earlier time there were beautifully moulded and decorated gold-bronze spears,
that show what richness of feeling and imagination, what just taste and fine skill were there.
All our knowledge goes to show that the suitor of Credé has drawn a true picture of her house
and the generous social life belonging to it. We know, too, that the great dining-hall of Tara
has been faithfully celebrated by the bards; the picture of the king in his scarlet cloak is
representative of the whole epoch.

The story of Credé also shows the freedom and honor accorded to women, as does the queenship
of Meave, with the record of her separate riches. The tragedies of Deirdré and Grania would
never have been remembered, had not the freedom and high regard of women been universal. Such
decorative skill as is shown in the metal-work and pottery that have come down to us must have
borne fruit in every realm of social life, in embroideries, tapestries, well-designed and beautifully
adorned homes. Music is everywhere spoken of in the old traditions, and the skill of the poets
we can judge for ourselves.

In all that concerns the natural man, therefore, a very high perfection had been reached. A
frame of life had grown habitual, which brought out the finest vigor and strength and beauty.
Romantic love added its riches to valor, and dignity was given by the ever-present memory of
the heroic past, merging on the horizon with the divine dawn of the world. Manhood and womanhood
had come to perfect flower. The crown rested on the brow of the nation's life.

When the life of the natural man is perfected, the time comes to strike the note of the immortal,
to open the door of our real and enduring destiny. Sensual success, the ideal of unregenerate
man, was perfectly realized in Concobar and ten thousand like him. The destiny of triumphant
individual life, the strong man victorious over nature and other men, was fulfilled. Individual
prowess, individual accomplishment, could go no further.

Nor should we overlook the dark shadows of the picture. Glory is to the victor, but woe to
the vanquished. The continual warfare between tribe and tribe, between chief and chief, which
made every valley a home of warriors dominated by a rath-fortress, bore abundant fruits of
evil. Death in battle need not be reckoned, or may be counted as pure gain; but the fate of
the wounded, maimed and miserable, the destitution of women and children left behind, the worse
fate of the captives, sold as they were into exile and slavery,--all these must be included
in the total.

Nor are these material losses the worst. The great evil of the epoch of tribal war is its reaction
on the human spirit. The continual struggle of ambition draws forth egotism, the desire to
dominate for mere domination, the sense of separation and antagonism between man and man, tribe
and tribe, province and province.

But our real human life begins only when these evil tendencies are abated; when we learn to
watch the life of others as if it were our own,--as being indeed a part of our own life,--and
in every act and motion of our minds do only that which shall be to the best advantage of both
ourselves and our neighbor. For only thus, only by the incessant practice of this in imagination
and act, can the door of our wider and more humane consciousness be opened.

Nor is this all. There are in us vast unexplored tracts of power and wisdom; tracts not properly
belonging to our personal and material selves, but rather to the impersonal and universal consciousness
which touches us from within, and which we call divine. Our personal fate is closed by death;
but we have a larger destiny which death does not touch; a destiny enduring and immortal. The
door to this larger destiny can only be opened after we have laid down the weapons of egotism;
after we have become veritably humane. There must be a death to militant self-assertion, a
new birth to wide and universal purposes, before this larger life can be understood and known.

With all the valor and rich life of the days of Cuculain and Ossin, the destructive instinct
of antagonism was very deeply rooted in all hearts; it did endless harm to the larger interests
of the land, and laid Ireland open to attack from without. Because the genius of the race was
strong and highly developed, the harm went all the deeper; even now, after centuries, it is
not wholly gone.

The message of the humane and the divine, taught among the Galilean hills and on the shores
of Gennesaret, was after four centuries brought to Ireland--a word of new life to the warriors
and chieftains, enkindling and transforming their heroic world. Britain had received the message
before, for Britain was a part of the dominion of Rome, which already had its imperial converts.
Roman life and culture and knowledge of the Latin tongue had spread throughout the island up
to the northern barrier between the Forth and Clyde. Beyond this was a wilderness of warring
tribes.

Where the Clyde comes forth from the plain to the long estuary of the sea, the Messenger of
the Tidings was born. His father, Calpurn, was a Roman patrician; from this his son, whose
personal name was Succat, was surnamed Patricius, a title raised by his greatness into a personal
name. His letters give us a vivid picture of his captivity, and the stress of life which gradually
aroused in him the inspiration of the humane and divine ripened later into a full knowledge
of his apostolate.

"I Patricius, a sinner," he writes, "and most unlearned of believers, looked down upon by many,
had for my father the deacon Calpurn, son of the elder Potitus, of a place called Bannova in
Tabernia, near to which was his country home. There I was taken captive, when not quite sixteen.
I knew not the Eternal. Being led into captivity with thousands of others, I was brought to
Ireland,--a fate well deserved. For we had turned from the Eternal, nor kept the laws of the
Eternal. Nor had we heeded the teachers who urged us to seek safety. Therefore the Eternal,
justly wroth, scattered us among unbelievers, to the uttermost parts of the earth; here, where
my poor worth is now seen among strangers, where the Eternal liberated the power hid in my
unenkindled heart, that even though late I should recognize my error, and turn with all my
heart to the Eternal....

"I have long had it in mind to write, but until now have hesitated; for I feared blame, because
I had not studied law and the sacred writings,--as have others who have never changed their
language, but gone on to perfection in it; but my speech is translated into another language,
and the roughness of my writing shows how little I have been taught. As the Sage says, 'Show
by thy speech thy wisdom and knowledge and learning.' But what profits this excuse? since all
can see how in my old age I struggle after what I should have learned as a boy. For then my
sinfulness hindered me. I was but a beardless boy when I was taken captive, not knowing what
to do and what to avoid; therefore I am ashamed to show my ignorance now? because I never learned
to express great matters succinctly and well;--great matters like the moving of the soul and
mind by the Divine Breath.... Nor, indeed, was I worthy that the Master should so greatly favor
me, after all my hard labor and heavy toil, and the years of captivity amongst this people,--that
the Master should show me such graciousness as I never knew nor hoped for till I came to Ireland.

"But daily herding cattle here, and aspiring many times a day, the fear of the Eternal grew
daily in me. A divine dread and aspiration grew in me, so that I often prayed a hundred times
a day, and as many times in the night. The general appearance of the room will be understood from
the view of the north aisle reduced from a photograph (fig. 53)[314].

.]

There
are eighteen bookcases, or desks; namely, ten on the south side of
the room, and eight on the north side (fig. 52).

The material is oak; the workmanship very rude and rough.

I will
describe those on the south side first. Each is 9 feet long by 5 feet
5¼ inches high, measured from the floor to the top of the finial
on the end; and the lower edge of the desk on which the books lie
is 2 feet 6¼ inches above the floor; but the general plan, and the
relative dimensions of the different parts, will be best understood
from the photograph of a single desk at which a reader is seated (fig.
54), and from the elevation of one of the ends (fig. 55, A), beside
which I have placed the elevation of one of the desks at Queens' College
(B).

The photograph shews that in fixing the height of the desk above
the ground the convenience of readers has been carefully considered.

The iron bar that carries the chains is locked into the ornamental upright, passes through a staple in the
middle of the desk, and into the upright at the opposite end, which
is left plain. This bar is half an inch in diameter, and one inch
above the level of the top of the desk. It is prevented from bending by passing
through a staple fixed in the centre of the desk. A piece of ornamental
iron-work is fixed to the upright. It is made to represent a lock, but
is in reality a mere plate of metal, and the tongue, which looks as though
it were intended to move, is only an ornament, and is pierced by
the keyhole.

The lock is sunk in the thickness of the wood, behind this plate,
and the bar, which terminates in a knob, is provided with two nicks,
into which the bolts of the lock are shot when the key is turned (fig.
56).

Between each pair of desks there is a seat for the reader.

The desks on the north side of the room differ slightly from those
on the south side.

They are rather larger, the ends are of a different shape and devoid
of ornament (fig. 57), and there is a wider interval between the bar
and the top of the desk.

It seems to me probable that the more highly ornamented desks are those which were put in when the
room was first fitted up, and that the others were added from time to time as new books had to be
accommodated.

The books are attached to the desk by the following process. A chain
was taken about 12 inches long, more or less, consisting of long narrow
links of hammered iron.

These links exactly resemble, both in shape and size, those of a
chain which may still be seen in the library of the Grammar School
at Guildford, Surrey[316].

This chain, of which a piece is here figured (fig. 58), was probably made
in 1586, or only 23 years after the building of the library at Zutphen.
It terminates, like those at Zutphen (fig. 59), in a swivel (to prevent
entanglement), attached to the ring which is strung upon the bar.

The attachment of the chain to the book was effected by means of
a piece of metal bent round so as to form a loop through which the
last link of the chain was passed.

The ends of the loop, flattened out, were attached by nail or rivet
to the edge of the stout wooden board which formed the side of the
book.

This mode of attachment will be best seen in the volume which I figure
next (fig. 60)--a collection of sermons printed at Nuremberg in 1487.

It is believed to have once belonged to a Dominican House at Bamberg,
in the library of which it was chained[317].

The iron loop in this specimen (fig. 60) is fastened to what I call the
right-hand board of the book; by which I mean the board which is to
the right hand of a reader when the book lies open before him; but
the selection of the right-hand or the left-hand board depended on
individual taste.

Further the mode of attachment is never the same in two examples.
The iron and rivets are often clumsy, and do considerable damage to
the leaves, by forcing them out of shape and staining them with rust.

In this method of chaining no provision is made for removing any book
from the desk when not wanted, and placing it on a shelf beneath the
desk, as was done in some Italian modifications of the system.

Each volume must lie on the desk, attached by its chain, like a Bible
on a church-lectern.

The smallest number of volumes on any desk at Zutphen is six; the largest,
eleven; the total, 316.

Most
of those on the south side of the room were printed during the first
half of the sixteenth century; those on the north side are much later,
some as late as 1630.

I did not see any manuscripts.

If we now reconsider the indications preserved at Queens' College, it
will, I feel sure, be recognised that the desks at Zutphen explain
them, and enable us to realise the aspect of what I conceive to have
been the most ancient method of fitting up a collegiate or a monastic
library.

When such a room first became necessary in a monastery, and furniture
suitable for it was debated, a lectern would surely suggest itself,
as being used in the numerous daily services, and proving itself singularly
convenient for the support of books while they were being read.

Another example of such fittings was once to be seen at Pembroke College, Cambridge, in the library above
the hall (fig. 48). In Dr Matthew Wren's account of that library already
quoted there is a passage which may be translated as follows:

I
would have you know that in the year 1617 the Library was completely
altered and made to assume an entirely new appearance.

This alteration was rendered necessary by the serious damage which, to our great sorrow, we found the books
had suffered--a damage which was increasing daily--partly from the sloping form of the desks, partly
from the inconvenient weight of the chains (tum ex declivi pluteorum
fabricâ, tum ex ineptâ mole catenarum)[318].

These desks were copied at S. John's College in the same University.

A contract dated 20 June, 1516, provides that the contractor

shall make all the Desks in the Library wythin the said college of
good and substanciall and abyll Tymber of Oke mete and convenient
for the same Library, aftir and accordyng to the Library within ...
Pembroke Hall[319].

The Library here referred to was on the first floor to the south of the Great
Gate of the college.

It is now divided into chambers, but its original extent can be readily made out by its range of equidistant
windows.

The wall-spaces dividing these are 28½ inches wide, practically the
same as those at Queens' College.

At Peterhouse also a similar arrangement seems to have subsisted when
the catalogue of 1418 was made.

The very first book, a Bible, is said to stand "in the sixth lectern on the west side (lectrino 6^o
ex parte occidentali)." The word lectrinum is unusual, but it emphasizes the form of the desk more clearly
than any other.

A splendid example of this type of case is to be seen at Lincoln (fig. 61), where three "stalls" or desks,
belonging to the old library already described[320], are still preserved.

Each is about 7 ft. long, 3 ft. broad, and 4 ft. 4 in. high to the top of
the sloping portion. At each end, and in the centre, is a massive molded
standard, 7 ft. 2 in. high, terminating in a boldly carved finial;
and these three standards are connected together by a band of open-work,
of a design similar to that of the cornice of the library.

Half way between this band and the top of the desk is the bar to
carry the chains, now of wood, but formerly of course of iron; and
below this again is a shelf 18 in. wide, projecting slightly beyond
the sloping portion of the desk.

The edge of the desk is protected by a ledge, as usual, and under
it is a second shelf extending the whole width of the piece of furniture.

What
was the use of these shelves? As the bar is above the desk, not below it, the books must have reposed, as
a general rule, upon the desk, instead of being laid on their sides on the shelf below it when not wanted
by a reader.

The chains would not have been long enough to allow of any other arrangement. I think,
therefore, that the lower shelf must have been a constructional contrivance,
to assist in keeping the standards in their places.

The narrow upper shelf, on the other hand, was probably intended for
the convenience of the reader.

He might place on it, temporarily, any book that he was not using, and which
got in his way while he was reading one of those beside it; or, if
he was making extracts, he might set his inkstand upon it.

These desks evidently stood in the old library against the shafts of
the roof, for one of the ends has been hollowed out in each to receive
the shaft; and the finial, which is left plain on that side, is bent
over slightly, to admit it under the brace (fig. 39).

As I have now described three varieties of the lectern-system, I will
place before my readers, side by side, elevations of each of the
three (fig. 62) drawn to the same scale.

It will be seen that they resemble each other exactly in essentials.
The differences observable are accidental, and may be referred to
individual taste.

That this form of desk was recognised on the continent as typical of library-fittings is proved by
its appearance in a French translation of the first book of the Consolation
of Philosophy of Boethius, which I had the good fortune to find in
the British Museum[321] (fig. 63).

This manuscript was written in Flanders towards the end of the fifteenth
century.

In such a work the library shewn requires what I may term generalised fittings. An eccentric peculiarity would
have been quite inadmissible.

In the Stadtbibliothek of Nuremberg some of the oldest works on jurisprudence still preserve their chains.
Each has a short chain about 12 in. long fixed on the upper edge of
the left-hand board.

The title is written on the middle of the upper edge of the right-hand board. It is
obvious that these volumes must have lain on a desk with their titles
uppermost[322].

It is probable that similar fittings were used in the library of the
Sorbonne, Paris, which was first established in 1289, with books chained
for the common convenience of the Fellows (in communem sociorum utilitatem)[323].

This library was divided into two separate collections, which formed,
so to speak, two distinct libraries. The first, called the great
library, or the common library, contained the books most frequently
studied. They were chained, and could only be taken out under the
most exceptional circumstances.

A statute, dated 1321, the provisions of which recall the collegiate
statutes summarised above, directed that the best book the society
possessed on each subject should be thus chained.

The second division of the library, called the small library, contained
duplicates, books rarely consulted, and generally all those of which
the loan was authorised under certain conditions[324].

The following description of this library has been given by Claude Héméré (Librarian
1638-43) in his MS. history.

This I proceed to translate:

The old library was contained under one roof. It was firmly and solidly
built, and was 120 feet long by 36 feet broad.... Each side was pierced
with 19 windows of equal size, that plenty of daylight both from the
east and the west (for this was the direction of the room) might fall
upon the desks, and fill the whole length and breadth of the library.

There were 28 desks, marked with the letters of the alphabet, five
feet high, and so arranged that they were separated by a moderate
interval.

They were loaded with books, all of which were chained, that no sacrilegious
hand might [carry them off.

These
chains were attached to the right-hand board of every book] so that they might
be readily thrown aside, and reading not be interfered with.

Moreover the volumes could be opened and shut without difficulty. A
reader who sat down in the space between two desks, as they rose
to a height of five feet as I said above, neither saw nor disturbed
any one else who might be reading or writing in another place by talking
or by any other interruption, unless the other student wished it,
or paid attention to any question that might be put to him.

It was required, by the ancient rules of the library, that reading, writing,
and handling of books should go forward in complete silence[325].

This description indicates desks similar to those of Zutphen. Even the height is the same.

A library which vividly recalls the above account, with 19 windows
on one side and probably the same number on the other, was built in
1506 for the Collège de Navarre, Paris, now the École Polytechnique[326].

My illustration (fig. 64) is from a photograph taken shortly before its
destruction in 1867.

I have calculated that it was about 108 ft. long by 30 ft. wide.

The library of the Collège d'Autun, Paris, was similarly arranged. An inventory
taken 29 July, 1462, records: "dix bancs doubles, à se seoir d'une
part et d'autre, et ung poupitre; esquelz bancs et poupitre out esté
trouvez enchaisnez les livres qui s'ensuyvent, qui sont intitulez
sur la couverture d'iceulx[327]."

The catalogue enumerates 174 volumes, or rather more than 17 for each
"banc" or lectern. The expression bancs doubles is interesting, as
it seems to imply that there were at that time libraries in which
bancs simples were used; that is to say, lecterns with only one sloping
surface instead of two.

A study of the catalogue drawn up in 1513 for the Augustinian House of S. Victor, Paris, by Claude de
Grandrue, one of the monks, shews that the same system must have
been in use there.

Further, his catalogue is an excellent specimen of the pains taken in a
large monastery to describe the books accurately, and to provide ready
access to them. A brief prefatory note informs us that the desks are
arranged in three rows, and marked with a triple series of letters. The
first row is marked A, B, C, etc.; the second AA, BB, etc.; the third
AAA, BBB, etc. To each of these letters are appended the numbers 1,
2, 3, 4 and so on, to shew the position of the required volume.

For instance--to take one at random--Abælardi confessio is marked P. 13: that is, it is the thirteenth
book on the desk in the first row marked P. When the catalogue proper--in
which each manuscript is carefully described--was finished, the author
increased its usefulness by the composition of an alphabetical index[328].

How,

I shall be asked, can the form of the bookcase or desk (pulpitum) be inferred
from this catalogue?

I reply: In the first place, because there are no shelf-marks. The librarian
notes the letter of the desk, and the place of each book on it, but nothing
more.

Secondly, because the number of manuscripts accommodated on each desk is so small. There are 50 desks,
and 988 manuscripts--or, an average of little more than 19 to each. At Zutphen the average
is exactly 18. This piece of evidence, however, is so important that I will give it in detail. The
following table, compiled by myself from the catalogue, gives the letters used to mark the desks,
and the number of manuscripts on each.

A 13 | AA 13 | AAA 15 B 21 | BB 16 | BBB 16 C 13 | CC 19 | CCC 17
D 18 | DD 18 | DDD 19 E 17 | EE 21 | EEE 17 F 20 | FF 17 | FFF 29
G 18 | GG 18 | GGG 24 H 16 | HH 17 | HHH 29 I 16 | II 23 | III 25
K 17 | KK 21 | KKK 29 L 22 | LL 21 | LLL 23 M 21 | MM 20 | MMM 26
N 18 | NN 20 | ---- O 14 | OO 13 | 269 P 19 | PP 23 | Q 22 | QQ 27
| R 14 | RR 26 | S 14 | SS 28 | T 21 | TT 24 | ----| ----| 334 | 385
|

These totals give a general total of 988 manuscripts, which, divided
by 50, makes the average number for each desk, as stated above, 19·76.

Further, my theory is supported by the positive evidence of a description
of this library (unfortunately without date) quoted by M. Delisle:
"Les livres estoient couchez et enchaisnez, sur de longs pupitres,
et une allée entre deux[329]."

It is obvious that the English system of placing each lectern between
a pair of windows could not have been maintained here.

At Queens' College, Cambridge, the catalogue, dated 1472, enumerates
192 volumes, divided over 10 desks and 4 half-desks, each called a
step (gradus).

There were (avoiding fractions) 8 books on each half-desk, and 15
on each complete desk; so that by comparing the plan (fig. 50) and
elevation of a desk (fig. 51) with the views of the library at Zutphen,
a good idea of a college library in the fifteenth century can be obtained.

Before

I leave the lectern-system, I will describe two eccentric specimens
of it. The first is still to be seen at Trinity Hall, Cambridge; the second
once existed at the University of Leyden.

The library of Trinity Hall is thoroughly medieval in plan, being a long
narrow room on the first floor of the north side of the second
court, 65 feet long by 20 feet wide, with eight equidistant windows
in each side-wall, and a window of four lights in the western gable. It
was built about 1600, but the fittings are even later, having been
added between 1626 and 1645 during the mastership of Thomas Eden,
LL.D. They are therefore a deliberate return to ancient forms at a
time when a different type had been adopted elsewhere.

There are five desks and six seats on each side of the room, placed,
as usual, at right angles to the side-walls, in the inter spaces of
the windows, and in front of the windows, respectively.

Their arrangement, and the details of their construction, will be
understood from the general view (fig. 65), and from the elevation (fig.
66).

These lecterns are of oak, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 7 feet high,
measured to the top of the ornamental finial.

There is a sloping desk at the top, beneath which is a single shelf
(fig. 66, A). The bar for the chains passes under the desk, through the
two vertical ends of the case. At the end farthest from the wall, the
hasp of the lock is hinged to the bar and secured by two keys (fig.
67). Beneath the shelf there is at either end a slip of wood (fig.
66, B), which indicates that there was once a moveable desk which could be
pulled out when required. The reader could therefore consult his convenience,
and work either sitting or standing (fig. 65).

For both these positions the heights are very suitable, and at the bottom
of the case was a plinth (fig. 66, C), on which he could set his
feet.

The seats between each pair of desks were of course put up at the same time
as the desks themselves. They shew an advance in comfort, being divided into
two, so as to allow support to the reader's back.

Similar desks occur in a beautiful miniature (fig. 68) from a manuscript
(now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge[330]) written in France about
1480. They appear to be solid--possibly fitted with cupboards for
books under the sloping portion.

No seats are shewn, and, as a reader is standing between them consulting a book,
it may be concluded that they could only be used by students in that
position.

Lastly, I reproduce (fig. 69) a print by Jan Cornelis Woudanus, shewing
the library of the University of Leyden in 1610[331]. The bookcases
were evidently contrived with the view of getting the largest number possible
into the room.

Each contained a
single row of books, chained to a bar in front of the shelf; and, also for
the purpose of saving the space usually occupied by a seat, readers
were obliged to consult them standing.

There are eleven bookcases on each side of the room, each containing from
40 to 48 volumes. At the end of the room are two cupboards, probably
for manuscripts; and to the right of the spectator is a third press,
marked Legatum Josephi Scaligeri.

He died in January, 1609. Further, as an illustration of the usual appliances
for study found in libraries at this period, and often mentioned
in catalogues and account-books, I would draw attention to the globes
and maps.

I present these bookcases at this point of my researches with some
diffidence, for they can hardly be said to represent the lectern-system.

On the other hand, they
do not exactly represent any other; and I therefore submit that they
may be looked at here, as transitional specimens, bridging over the interval
between the desks we have lately been considering, and those which we
shall have to consider in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[258] The Statutes of the Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge bearing on
the care of books have been thoroughly analysed by Professor Willis
in his essay on "The Library," Arch.

Hist. III. pp. 387-471, which I edited and completed. I have therefore
not thought it necessary to acknowledge each quotation separately, but
I wish it to be understood that this section of my present book is
to a great extent borrowed from him.

[259] Wood, History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford, ed.
Gutch, 4to. Oxford, 1796, Vol. II. Part 2, p. 910.

[260] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. 1. Statutes of Merton College, Cap.
2, p. 24.

[261] Sketch of the Life of Walter de Merton, by Edmund [Hobhouse],
Bishop of Nelson, New Zealand, 8vo. Oxford, 1859, p. 39.

[262] Annals of University College, by Wm. Smith, 8vo. 1728, pp. 37-39. I have
compared Mr Smith's version with the Statute as printed by Anstey,
Munimenta Academica, I. 58, 59, and have made a few corrections.

[263] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. I. Statutes of Oriel College,
p. 14.

[264] Ibid. p. 22.

[265] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 38. De omnibus libris Domus,
Munimentis, et Chartis custodiendis.

[266] Ibid. p. 17.

De Duobus Decanis et eorum officio.

[267] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 44. Statutum de libris Collegii.

[268] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 432. De libris Collegii.

[269] The words are "in libraria communi ... ad sociorum communem
usum continue remanere."

 None of the Messengers of the New Way,
as they were called first by St. Luke, unless the phrase is St. Paul's, accomplished single-handed
so wonderful a work, conquering so large a territory, and leaving such enduring monuments of
his victory. Amongst the world's masters, the son of Calpurn the Decurion deserves a place
with the greatest.

Not less noteworthy than the wide range of his work was the way in which he gained success.
He addressed himself always to the chiefs, the kings, the men of personal weight and power.
And his address was almost invariably successful,--a thing that would have been impossible
had he not been himself a personality of singular force and fire, able to meet the great ones
of the land as an equal. His manner was that of an ambassador, full of tact, knowledge of men
and of the world. Nor can we find in him--or, indeed, in the whole history of the churches
founded by him--anything of that bitter zeal and fanaticism which, nearly two centuries nearer
to apostolic times, marred the work of the Councils under Constantius; the fierce animosity
between Christian and Christian which marked the Arian controversy. The Apostle of Ireland
showed far more urbanity, far more humane and liberal wisdom, far more gentleness, humor and
good feeling, in his treatment of the pre-Christian institutions and ideals of Ireland than
warring Christian sects have generally been willing to show to each other. 

The exact significance of these roots is a matter for speculation, but it seems possible that they
are epiphysial structures remotely comparable with the epiphysial (pineal) complex of the craniate vertebrates.
In accordance with this view there would be also some probability in favour of regarding the collar
nerve-tube of the Enteropneusta as the equivalent of the cerebral vesicle only of Amphioxus and the Ascidian
tadpole, and also of the primary fore-brain of vertebrates.

Special thickenings of the diffuse nervous layer of the epidermis occur in certain regions and along
certain lines. In the neck of the proboscis the fibrous layer is greatly thickened, and other
intensifications of this layer occur in the dorsal and ventral middle lines of the trunk extending to the
posterior end of the body. The dorsal epidermal nerve-tract is continued
in front into the ventral wall of the collar nerve-tube, and at the
point of junction there is a circular commissural thickening following
the posterior rim of the collar and affording a special connexion
between the dorsal and ventral nerve-tracts.

From the ventral surface of the collar nerve-tube numerous motor
fibres may be seen passing to the subjacent musculature.

These fibres are not aggregated into roots.

[v.03 p.0238]

Gill-slits.--The possession of gill-slits is as interesting a feature in the organization of Balanoglossus
as is the presence of tracheae in Peripatus. These gill-slits occupy a variable extent of the anterior
portion of the trunk, commencing immediately behind the collar-trunk septum. The branchial bars which constitute
the borders of the clefts are of two kinds:--(1) Septal bars between two contiguous clefts, corresponding
to the primary bars in Amphioxus; (2) Tongue-bars. The chief resemblances
between Balanoglossus and Amphioxus in respect of the gill-slits may be stated
briefly as follows:--([alpha]) the presence of two kinds of branchial
bars in all species and also of small crossbars (synapticula) in
many species; ([beta]) numerous gill-slits, from forty to more than
a hundred pairs; ([gamma]) the addition of new gill-slits by fresh
perforation at the posterior end of the pharynx throughout life.

The chief differences are, that (a) the tongue-bar is the essential organ of the gill-slit in Balanoglossus,
and exceeds the septal bars in bulk, while in Amphioxus the reverse is the case; (b) the tongue-bar contains
a large coelomic space in Balanoglossus, but is solid in Amphioxus; (c) the skeletal rods in the tongue-bars
of Balanoglossus are double; (d) the tongue-bar in Balanoglossus does not fuse with the ventral border
of the cleft, but ends freely below, thus producing a continuous U-shaped cleft. The meaning
of this singular contrast between the two animals may be that we have here
an instance of an interesting gradation in evolution. From serving primitively
as the essential organ of the cleft the tongue-bar may have undergone
reduction and modification, becoming a secondary bar in Amphioxus, subordinate
to the primary bars in size, vascularity and development; finally, in
the craniate vertebrates it would then have completed its involution,
the suggestion having been made that the tongue-bars are represented
by the thymus-primordia.

Gill-pouches and Gill-pores.--Only rarely do the gill-slits open freely and directly to the exterior
(fig. 1).

In most species of Balanoglossus each gill-slit may be said to open into its own atrial chamber or gill-pouch;
this in its turn opens to the exterior by a minute gill-pore. There are,
therefore, as many gill-pouches as there are gill-slits and as many
gill-pores as pouches.

The gill-pores occur on each side of the dorsal aspect of the worm in a longitudinal series at the base of a
shallow groove, the branchial groove. The respiratory current of water is therefore conducted
to the exterior by different means from that adopted by Amphioxus,
and this difference is so great that the theory which seeks to explain
it has to postulate radical changes of structure, function and topography.

Excretory

and Vascular Systems.--It seems likely that the coelomic pore-canals were originally excretory organs, but
in the existing Enteropneusta the pore-canals (especially the collar canals) have, as we have
seen, acquired new functions or become vestigial, and the function of excretion
is now mainly accomplished by a structure peculiar to the Enteropneusta called the glomerulus,
a vascular complex placed on either side of the anterior portion of the stomochord, projecting
into the proboscis-coelom. The vascular system itself is quite peculiar,
consisting of lacunae and channels destitute of endothelium, situated
within the thickness of the basement-membrane of the body-wall, of the gut-wall
and of the mesenteries.

The blood, which is a non-corpuscular fluid, is propelled forwards by the contractile dorsal vessel
and collected into the central blood-sinus; this lies over the stomochord,
and is surrounded on three sides by a closed vesicle, with contractile
walls, called the pericardium (Herzblase).

By the pulsation of the pericardial vesicle (best observed in the
larva) the blood is driven into the glomerulus, from which it issues
by efferent vessels which effect a junction with the ventral (sub-intestinal)
vessel in the trunk.

The vascular system does not readily lend itself to morphological comparison between such widely
different animals as Balanoglossus and Amphioxus, and the reader is therefore referred to the
memoirs cited at the end of this article for further details.

Reproductive System.--The sexes are separate, and when mature are
sometimes distinguished by small differences of colour in the genital region. Both
male and female gonads consist of more or less lobulated hollow sacs connected
with the epidermis by short ducts.

In their disposition they are either uniserial, biserial or multiserial. They occur
in the branchial region, and also extend to a variable distance behind
it.

In exceptional cases they are either confined to the branchial region or excluded from it. When they are
arranged in uniserial or biserial rows the genital ducts open into or near the branchial grooves in the region
of the pharynx and in a corresponding position in the post-branchial region. An important feature is
the occurrence in some species (Ptychoderidae) of paired longitudinal pleural or lateral folds of
the body which are mobile, and can be approximated at their free edges so as to close in the dorsal
surface, embracing both the median dorsal nerve-tract and the branchial grooves with the gill-pores,
so as to form a temporary peri-branchial and medullary tube, open
behind where the folds cease.

On the other hand, they can be spread out horizontally so as to expose
their own upper side as well as the dorsal surface of the body (fig.
1).

These folds are called the genital pleurae because they contain the
bulk of the gonads.

Correlated with the presence of the genital pleurae there is a pair of vascular folds of the basement
membrane proceeding from the dorsal wall of the gut in the post-branchial portion of the branchio-genital
region, and from the dorsal angles made by the pleural folds with the body-wall in the pharyngeal region;
they pass, in their most fully developed condition, to the free border of the genital pleurae. These
vascular membranes are called the lateral septa. Since there are many species which do not possess
these genital pleurae, the question arises as to whether their presence or their absence is the
more primitive condition. Without attempting to answer this question categorically, it may be pointed
out that within the limits of the family (Ptychoderidae) which is
especially characterized by their presence there are some species
in [v.03 p.0239] which the genital pleurae are quite obsolete, and
yet lateral septa occur (e.g. Ptychodera ruficollis), seeming to indicate
that the pleural folds have in such cases been secondarily suppressed.

Development.--The

     
         
     
         
     development of Balanoglossus takes place according to two different
         schemes, known as direct and indirect,
     correlated with the occurrence in the group of two kinds of
         ova, large and small.
     Direct development, in which the adult form is achieved
         without striking metamorphosis
     by a gradual succession of stages, seems to be confined
         to the family Balanoglossidae.
     The remaining two families of Enteropneusta, Ptychoderidae
         and Spengelidae, contain species
     of which probably all pursue an indirect course of development,
         culminating in a metamorphosis
     by which the adult form is attained. In these cases the larva,
         called Tornaria, is pelagic
     and transparent, and possesses a complicated ciliated seam,
         the longitudinal ciliated band,
     often drawn out into convoluted bays and lappets. In addition
         to this ciliated band
     the form of the Tornaria is quite characteristic
         
and unlike the adult. The Tornaria larva offers a certain similarity
to larvae of Echinoderms (sea-urchins, star-fishes, and sea-cucumbers),
and when first discovered was so described.

It is within the bounds of possibility that Tornaria actually does indicate a remote affinity on the
part of the Enteropneusta to the Echinoderms, not only on account of its external form, but also by reason
of the possession of a dorsal water-pore communicating with the anterior
body-cavity. In the direct development Bateson showed that the three
divisions of the coelom arise as pouches constricted off from the archenteron
or primitive gut, thus resembling the development of the mesoblastic
somites of Amphioxus.

It would appear that while the direct development throws light upon the special
plan of organization of the Enteropneusta, the indirect development
affords a clue to their possible derivation. However this may be,
it is sufficiently remarkable that a small and circumscribed group
like the Enteropneusta, which presents such a comparatively uniform
plan of composition and of external form, should follow two such diverse
methods of development.

     
       
     

Distribution.--Some thirty species of Balanoglossus are known, distributed
among all the principal marine provinces from Greenland to New Zealand.

       

The species which occurs in the English Channel is Ptychodera sarniensis.
The Ptychoderidae and Spengelidae are predominantly tropical and
subtropical, while the Balanoglossidae are predominantly arctic and temperate
in their distribution.

One of the most singular facts concerning the geographical distribution of
Enteropneusta has recently been brought to light by Benham, who found
a species of Balanoglossus, sensu stricto, on the coast of New Zealand
hardly distinguishable from one occurring off Japan.

Finally, Glandiceps abyssicola (Spengelidae) was dredged during the
"Challenger" expedition in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa
at a depth of 2500 fathoms.

AUTHORITIES.--W. Bateson, "Memoirs on the Direct Development of Balanoglossus,"
Quart. Journ. Micr. Sci. (vols. xxiv.-xxvi., 1884-1886); W. B. Benham, "Balanoglossus
otagoensis, n. sp," Q. J. M. S. (vol. xlii. p. 497, 1899); Yves Delage
and Éd.

Hérouard, Traité de zoologie concrète (t. viii.), "Les Procordés" (1898); S. F. Harmer, "Note on the
Name Balanoglossus," Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. (x. p. 190, 1900); T. H. Morgan, "Memoirs on the
Indirect Development of Balanoglossus," Journ. Morph.

(vol. v., 1891, and vol. ix., 1894); W. E. Ritter, "Harrimania maculosa, a new Genus and Species of Enteropneusta
from Alaska," Papers from the Harriman Alaska Exhibition (ii.), Proc.

Washington Ac. (ii. p. 111, 1900); J. W. Spengel, "Die Enteropneusten," Eighteenth
Monograph on the Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel (1893); A.
Willey, "Enteropneusta from the South Pacific, with Notes on the West
Indian Species," Zool.

Results (Willey), part iii., 1899; see also Q. J. M. S. (vol. xlii. p. 223, 1899); J. P. Hill,
"The Enteropneusta of Funafuti," Mem. Austral. Mus.

(iii., 1897-1898); M. Caullery and F. Mesnil, "Balanoglossus Kochleri, n. sp. English Channel,"
C. R. Soc. Biol. lii. p. 256 (1900).

(A. W.*)

BALARD, ANTOINE JERÔME (1802-1876), French chemist, was born at Montpellier
on the 30th of September 1802. He started as an apothecary, but taking
up teaching he acted as chemical assistant at the faculty of sciences
of his native town, and then became professor of chemistry at the
royal college and school of pharmacy and at the faculty of sciences.

In 1826 he discovered in sea-water a substance which he recognized as a previously unknown element
and named bromine.

The reputation brought him by this achievement secured his election as successor to L. J. Thénard in
the chair of chemistry at the faculty of sciences in Paris, and in
1851 he was appointed professor of chemistry at the Collège de France,
where he had M. P. E. Berthelot first as pupil, then as assistant
and finally as colleague.

He died in Paris on the 30th of April 1876.

While the discovery of bromine and the preparation of many of its compounds was his most conspicuous
piece of work, Balard was an industrious chemist on both the pure and applied sides. In his
researches on the bleaching compounds of chlorine he was the first to
advance the view that bleaching-powder is a double compound of calcium
chloride and hypochlorite; and he devoted much time to the problem
of economically obtaining soda and potash from sea-water, though here
his efforts were nullified by the discovery of the much richer sources
of supply afforded by the Stassfurt deposits.

In organic chemistry he published papers on the decomposition of ammonium oxalate, with formation
of oxamic acid, on amyl alcohol, on the cyanides, and on the difference in constitution between nitric
and sulphuric ether.

BALA SERIES, in geology, a series of dark slates and sandstones with
beds of limestone which occurs in the neighbourhood of Bala, Merionethshire,
North Wales.

     
        
It was first described by A. Sedgwick, who considered it to be the upper part
of his Cambrian System. The series is now placed at the top of the Ordovician
System, above the Llandeilo beds. The Bala limestone is from 20 to
40 ft. thick, and is recognizable over most of North Wales; it is
regarded as the equivalent of the Coniston limestone of the Lake District.

     

     
        The series in the type area consists of the Hirnant limestone, a
thin inconstant bed, which is separated by 1400 ft. of slates from the Bala
limestone, below this are more slates and volcanic rocks. The latter
are represented by large contemporaneous deposits of tuff and felsitic
lava which in the Snowdon District are several thousand feet thick.
In South Wales the Bala Series contains the following beds in descending
order:--the Trinucleus seticornis beds (Slade beds, Redhill shales
and Sholeshook limestone), the Robeston Wathen beds, and the Dicranograptus
shales.

     
        

The typical graptolites are, in the upper part, Dicellograptus anceps and
D. complanatus; in the lower part, Pleurograptus linearis and Dicranograptus
Clingani. In Shropshire this series is represented by the Caradoc
and Chirbury Series; in southern Scotland by the Hartfell and Ardmillan
Series, and by similar rocks in Ireland.

     
See CARADOC SERIES and ORDOVICIAN SYSTEM.

BALASH (in the Greek authors, Balas; the later form of the name Vologaeses),
Sassanian king in A.D. 484-488, was the brother and successor of P[=e]r[=o]z,
who had died in a battle against the Hephthalites (White Huns) who
invaded Persia from the east.

     He put down the rebellion of his brother Zareh, and is praised as a mild
and generous monarch, who made concessions to the Christians.

     But as he did nothing against his enemies, he was, after a reign of
four years, deposed and blinded, and his nephew, Kavadh I., raised
to the throne.

(ED. M.)

     

BALASORE, a town and district of British India, in the Orissa division
of Bengal.

The town is the principal one and the administrative headquarters of the
district, and is situated on the right bank of the river Burabalang,
about 7 m. from the sea-coast as the crow flies and 16 m. by the
river.

There is a station on the East Coast railway. The English settlement of Balasore, formed in 1642,
and that of Pippli in its neighbourhood seven years earlier, became the basis of the future greatness
of the British in India.

The servants of the East India Company here fortified themselves in a strong position, and carried on
a brisk investment in country goods, chiefly cottons and muslins.

They flourished in spite of the oppressions of the Mahommedan governors, and when needful asserted
their claims to respect by arms.

In 1688, affairs having come to a crisis, Captain William Heath,
commander of the company's ships, bombarded the town.

In the 18th century Balasore rapidly declined in importance, on account of a dangerous bar which formed
across the mouth of the river. At present the bar has 12 to 15 ft. of water at spring-tides, but not more
than 2 or 3 ft. at low water in the dry season.

Large ships have to anchor outside in the open roadstead. The town still possesses a large maritime
trade, despite the silting-up of the river mouth.

Pop. (1901) 20,880.

The district forms a strip of alluvial land between the hills and
the sea, varying from about 9 to 34 m. in breadth; area, 2085 sq.
m. The hill country rises from the western boundary line.

The district naturally divides itself into three well-defined tracts--(1)
The salt tract, along the coast; (2) The arable tract, or rice country;
and (3) The submontane tract, or jungle lands.

The salt tract runs the whole way down the coast, and forms a desolate
strip a few miles broad. Towards the beach it rises into sandy ridges, from
50 to 80 ft. high, sloping inland and covered with a [v.03 p.0240]
vegetation of low scrub jungle.

Sluggish brackish streams creep along between banks of fetid black mud. The sandhills on the verge of
the ocean are carpeted with creepers and the wild convolvulus. Inland, it
spreads out into prairies of coarse long grass and scrub jungle,
which harbour wild animals in plenty; but throughout this vast region
there is scarcely a hamlet, and only patches of rice cultivation at
long intervals.

From any part of the salt tract one may see the boundary of the inner arable part of the district fringed
with long lines of trees, from which every morning the villagers drive their cattle out into the
saliferous plains to graze. The salt tract is purely alluvial, and
appears to be of recent date.

Towards the coast the soil has a distinctly saline taste.

Salt used to be largely manufactured in the district by evaporation, but
the industry is now extinct. The arable tract lies beyond the salt
lands, and embraces the chief part of the district.

It is a long dead-level of rich fields, with a soil lighter in colour than that of Bengal or Behar;
much more friable, and apt to split up into small cubes with a rectangular
cleavage.

A peculiar feature of the arable tract is the P[=a]ts (literally cups) or depressed lands near
the river-banks. They were probably marshes that have partially silted up by the yearly overflow
of the streams. These p[=a]ts bear the finest crops. As a whole, the
arable tract is a treeless region, except around the villages, which are
encircled by fine mango, pipal, banyan and tamarind trees, and intersected
with green shady lanes of bamboo.

A few palmyras, date-palms and screw-pines (a sort of aloe, whose leaves are armed with formidable triple
rows of hook-shaped thorns) dot the expanse or run in straight lines
between the fields.

The submontane tract is an undulating country with a red soil, much
broken up into ravines along the foot of the hills.

Masses of laterite, buried in hard ferruginous clay, crop up as rocks or slabs. At Kopari, in Kila Ambohata,
about 2 sq. m. are almost paved with such slabs, dark-red in colour, perfectly flat and polished
like plates of iron. A thousand mountain torrents have scooped out for
themselves picturesque ravines, clothed with an ever-fresh verdure
of prickly thorns, stunted gnarled shrubs, and here and there a noble
forest tree.

Large tracts are covered with sal jungle, which nowhere, however, attains to any great height.

Balasore district is watered by six distinct river systems: those of the
Subanrekha, the Burabalang, the Jamka, the Kansbans and the Dhamra.

The
climate greatly varies according to the seasons of the year.

The hot season lasts from March to June, but is tempered by cool sea-breezes; from June to September
the weather is close and oppressive; and from October to February the
cold season brings the north-easterly winds, with cool mornings and
evenings.

Almost the only crop grown is rice, which is largely exported by sea.

The country is exposed to destructive floods from the hill-rivers and also from cyclonic storm-waves. The district
is traversed throughout its entire length by the navigable Orissa
coast canal, and also by the East Coast railway from Calcutta to Madras.

The seaports
of Balasore, Chandbali and Dhamra conduct a very large coasting trade. The exports are almost confined
to rice, which is sent to Ceylon, the Maldives and Mauritius. The imports
consist of cotton twist and piece goods, mineral oils, metals, betel-nuts
and salt.

In 1901 the population was 1,071,197, an increase of 9% in the decade.

BALASSA,
BÁLINT, BARON OF KÉKKÖ and GYARMAT (1551-1594), Magyar lyric poet,
was born at Kékkö, and educated by the reformer, Péter Bornemissza,
and by his mother, the highly gifted Protestant zealot, Anna Sulyok.

His first work was a translation of Michael Bock's Würtzgertlein für
die krancken Seelen, to comfort his father while in prison (1570-1572)
for some political offence.

On his father's release, Bálint accompanied him to court, and was also present at the coronation diet of Pressburg
in 1572. He then joined the army and led a merry life at the fortress
of Eger.

Here he fell violently in love with Anna Losonczi, the daughter of the hero of Temesvár, and evidently, from
his verses, his love was not unrequited. But a new mistress speedily
dragged the ever mercurial youth away from her, and deeply wounded,
she gave her hand to Krisztóf Ungnad.

Naturally Balassa only began to realize how much he loved Anna when
he had lost her.

He pursued her with gifts and verses, but she remained true to her
pique and to her marriage vows, and he could only enshrine her memory
in immortal verse.

     
          

     In 1574 Bálint was sent to the camp of Gáspár Békesy to assist him
          
against Stephen Báthory; but his troops were encountered and scattered on the
way thither, and he himself was severly wounded and taken prisoner.
His not very rigorous captivity lasted for two years, and he then disappears
from sight.

We next hear of him in 1584 as the wooer and winner of Christina
Dobo, the daughter of the valiant commandant of Eger.

What led him to this step we know not, but it was the cause of all his subsequent misfortunes. His wife's
greedy relatives nearly ruined him by legal processes, and when in 1586
he turned Catholic to escape their persecutions they declared that he
and his son had become Turks.

     
         
His simultaneous desertion of his wife led to his expulsion from Hungary,
and from 1589 to 1594 he led a vagabond life in Poland, sweetened
by innumerable amours with damsels of every degree from cithara players
to princesses.

     
         

The Turkish war of 1594 recalled him to Hungary, and he died of his
wounds at the siege of Esztergom the same year. Balassa's poems fall into
four divisions: religious hymns, patriotic and martial songs, original
love poems, and adaptations from the Latin and German.

     They are all most original, exceedingly objective and so excellent
         in point of
     
         style that it is difficult even to imagine him a contemporary of Sebastian
Tinodi and Peter Ilosvay. But his erotics are his best productions. They
circulated in MS. for generations and were never printed till 1874,
when Farkas Deák discovered a perfect copy of them in the Radvanyi
library.

 The Leinstermen collected the greatest number they were able, to
defend their rights against him. The king Aed Allan himself went into the battle, and the chieftains
of the north along with him. The chieftains of Leinster came with their kings into the battle,
and bloodily and heroically was the battle fought between them. Heroes were slaughtered and
bodies were hacked. Aed Allan and Aed, son of Colgan, king of Leinster, met each other, and
Aed son of Colgan was slain by Aed Allan. The Leinstermen were killed, slaughtered, cut off,
and dreadfully exterminated in this battle, so that there escaped of them but a small remnant
and a few fugitives."

To round out the picture, to contrast the two streams of the nation's life, let us give this,
from the following year: "734: Fifth year of Aed Allan. Saint Samtain, virgin, of Cluain Bronaig
(Longford), died on December 19. It was of her that Aed Allan gave this testimony:

     "Samtain for enlightening various sinners,
         A servant who observed stern chastity,
     In the wide plain of fertile Meath
         Great suffering did Samtain endure;
     She undertook a thing not easy,--
         Fasting for the kingdom above.
     She lived on scanty food;
         Hard were her girdles;
     She struggled in venomous conflicts;
         Pure was her heart amid the wicked.
     To the bosom of the Lord, with a pure death,
         Samtain passed from her trials."

X.

THE RAIDS OF THE NORTHMEN.

A.D. 750-1050.

Aed Allan, the king who so feelingly wrote the epitaph of the saintly virgin Samtain, needed
an epitaph himself four years later, for he fell in battle with Domnall son of Murcad son of
Diarmaid, who succeeded him on the throne. It is recorded that, in the following year, the
sea cast ashore a whale under the mountains of Mourne, to the great wonder of those who dwelt
by the hill of Rudraige. Thus do the Chronicles establish their good faith, by putting on record
things trifling or grave, with equal impartiality.

They were presently to have something more memorable to record than the loss of a battle or
the stranding of a whale. But before we come to this new chapter in the life of Ireland, let
us show the continuity of the forces we have already depicted. The old tribal turmoil went
on unabated. In 771, the first year of Doncad son of Domnall in the sovereignty over Ireland,
that ruler made a full muster of the Ui-Neill and marched into Leinster. The Leinstermen moved
before the monarch and his forces, until they arrived at the fort called Nectain's Shield in
Kildare. Domcad with his forces was entrenched at Aillin, whence his people continued to fire,
burn, plunder and devastate the province for the space of a week, when the Leinstermen at last
submitted to his will. Seventeen years later it is recorded that the church and abbey of Ardmaca,
or, as we may now begin to call it, Armagh, were struck by lightning, and the night was terrible
with thunder, lightning and wind.

We see, therefore, that the double life of the people, the life of valor and the life of wisdom,
were following their steady course in camp and school. We may call up a very interesting witness
to the whole condition of Ireland during this epoch: Alfred king of the Northumbrian Saxons,
who spent several years traveling through the land and studying in the schools. On his departure,
he wrote an ode of acknowledgment to the country he was leaving, in the verse of the native
Irish tongue. From this ode we may quote a few picturesque lines, taking them from a version
which preserves something of the original rhythm:

     "I traveled its fruitful provinces round,
     And in every one of the five I found,
     Alike in church and in palace hall,
     Abundant apparel and food for all.
     Gold and silver I found, and money,
     Plenty of wheat and plenty of honey;
     I found God's people rich in pity;
     Found many a feast and many a city....
     I found in each great church moreo'er,
     Whether on island or on shore,
     Piety, learning, fond affection,
     Holy welcome and kind protection....
     I found in Munster unfettered of any
     Kings and queens and poets a many,
     Poets well skilled in music and measure;
     Prosperous doings, mirth and pleasure.
     I found in Connacht the just, redundance
     Of riches, milk in lavish abundance;
     Hospitality, vigor, fame,
     In Crimean's land of heroic name....
     I found in Ulster, from hill to glen,
     Hardy warriors, resolute men.
     Beauty that bloomed when youth was gone,
     And strength transmitted from sire to son....
     I found in Leinster the smooth and sleek,
     From Dublin to Slewmargy's peak,
     Flourishing pastures, valor, health,
     Song-loving worthies, commerce, wealth....
     I found in Meath's fair principality
     Virtue, vigor, and hospitality;
     Candor, joyfulness, bravery, purity--
     Ireland's bulwark and security.
     I found strict morals in age and youth,
     I found historians recording truth.
     The things I sing of in verse unsmooth
     I found them all; I have written sooth."

The modern form of the names used by the translator gives this version a slightly misleading
tone. Ulster, Munster, Leinster were still known by their old names: Ulad, Mumain and Lagin.
The Danish termination by which we know them had not been added. In like manner, Dublin in
those days and far later was still called At-Cliat, the Ford of the Hurdles. Yet the tribute
which the Saxon king paid to Ireland has a true ring. It thoroughly supports what we have said:
that incessant tribal warfare rather expressed than detracted from the vigor of the nation's
life. It had this grave defect, however: it so kindled and cherished the instinct of separateness
that union in face of a common foe was almost impossible. Long years of adverse fate were needed
to merge the keen individual instinct of old into the common consciousness of to-day.

Modern historians generally write as if the onslaught of the Northmen had had this unifying
effect; as if it had been a great calamity, overwhelming the country for several centuries,
and submerging its original life under a tide of conquest. Survey); both works contain references to
original papers.

(J. A. H.)

BAJOUR, or BAJAUR, a small district peopled by Pathan races of Afghan origin, in the North-West
Frontier Province of India. It is about 45 m. long by 20. broad, and lies at a high level to the
east of the Kunar valley, from which it is separated by a continuous
line of rugged frontier hills, forming a barrier easily passable at
one or two points.

Across this barrier the old road from Kabul to India ran before the Khyber Pass was adopted as the
main route. Bajour is inhabited almost exclusively by Tarkani (Tarkalanri) Pathans, sub-divided
into Mamunds, Isazai, and Ismailzai, numbering together with a few Mohmands, Utmauzais, &c., about 100,000.
To the south of Bajour is the wild mountain district of the Mohmands,
a Pathan race.

To the east, beyond the Panjkora river, are the hills of Swat, dominated by
another Pathan race. To the north is an intervening watershed between
Bajour and the small state of Dir; and it is over this watershed
and through the valley of Dir that the new road from Malakand and
the Punjab runs to Chitral.

The drainage of Bajour flows eastwards, starting from the eastern slopes of the dividing ridge which
overlooks the Kunar and terminating in the Panjkora river, so that the district lies on a slope
tilting gradually downwards from the Kunar ridge to the Panjkora. Nawagai is the chief town of Bajour,
and the khan of Nawagai is under British protection for the safeguarding
of the Chitral road.

Jandol, one of the northern valleys of Bajour, has ceased to be of
political importance since the failure of its chief, Umra Khan, to
appropriate to himself Bajour, Dir, and a great part of the Kunar
valley.

It
was the active hostility between the amir of Kabul (who claimed
sovereignty of the same districts) and Umra Khan that led, firstly to
the demarcation agreement of 1893 which fixed the boundary of Afghanistan
in Kunar; and, secondly, to the invasion of Chitral by Umra Khan (who
was no party to the boundary settlement) and the siege of the Chitral
fort in 1895.

An interesting feature in Bajour topography is a mountain spur from
the Kunar range, which curving eastwards culminates in the well-known
peak of Koh-i-Mor, which is visible from the Peshawar valley.

It was here, at the foot of the mountain, that Alexander found the ancient city of Nysa and
the Nysaean colony, traditionally said to have been founded by Dionysus. The Koh-i-Mor has been identified
as the Meros of Arrian's history--the three-peaked mountain from
which the god issued.

It is also interesting to find that a section of the Kafir community of Kamdesh still claim the
same Greek origin as did the Nysaeans; still chant hymns to the
god who sprang from Gir Nysa (the mountain of Nysa); whilst they maintain
that they originally migrated from the Swat country to their present
habitat in the lower Bashgol.

Long after Buddhism had spread to Chitral, Gilgit, Dir and Swat; whilst Ningrahar was still full of monasteries
and temples, and the Peshawar valley was recognized as the seat of Buddhist learning, the Kafirs
or Nysaeans held their own in Bajour and in the lower Kunar valley, where Buddhism apparently
never prevailed.

It is probable that the invader Baber (who has much to say about
Bajour) fought them there in the early years of the 16th century,
when on his way to found the Mogul dynasty of India centuries after
Buddhism has been crushed in northern India by the destroyer Mahmud.

The Gazetteers and
Reports of the Indian government contain nearly all the modern information available about Bajour.
The autobiography of Baber (by Leyden and Erskine) gives interesting
details about the country in the 16th century.

For
the connexion between the Kafirs and the ancient Nysaeans of Swat,
see R. G. S. Journal, vol. vii., 1896.

(T. H. H.*)

BAJZA, JOSEPH (1804-1858), Hungarian poet and critic, was born at Szücsi in 1804. His earliest
contributions were made to Kisfaludy's Aurora, a literary paper of which he was editor from 1830
to 1837. He also wrote largely in the Kritische Blätter, the Athenaeum,
and the Figyelmezö or Observer.

His criticisms on dramatic art were considered the best of these miscellaneous
writings.

In 1830 he published translations of some foreign dramas, Ausländische Bühna,
and in 1835 a collection of his own poems. In 1837 he was made director
of the newly established national theatre at Pest. He then, for some years,
devoted himself to historical writing, and published in succession
the Historical Library (Törtereti Könyvtár), 6 vols., 1843-1845; the
Modern Plutarch (Uj Plutarch), 1845-1847; and the Universal History
(Világtörétet), 1847.

These works are to some extent translations from German authors. In 1847 Bajza edited the journal
of the opposition, Ellenör, at Leipzig, and in March 1848 Kossuth made him editor of his paper,
Kossuth Hirlapja. In 1850 he was attacked with brain disease and
died in 1858.

BAKALAI (BAKALÉ, BANGOUENS), a Bantu negroid tribe inhabiting a wide tract of French Congo between the
river Ogowé and 2° S. They appear to be immigrants from the south-east,
and have been supposed to be connected racially with the Galoa, one
of the Mpongwe tribes and the chief river-people of the Ogowé.

The Bakalai have suffered much from the incursions of their neighbours the Fang, also arrivals from
the south-east, and it may be that they migrated to their present abode under pressure from this
people at an earlier date. They are keen hunters and were traders in slaves and rubber; the
slave traffic has been prohibited by the French authorities. Their women display considerable
ingenuity in dressing their hair, often taking a whole day to arrange
a coiffure; the hair is built up on a substructure of clay and a good
deal of false hair incorporated; a coat of red, green or yellow pigment
often completes the effect.

The same colours are used to decorate the hut doors. The villages, some of which are fortified
with palisades, are usually very dirty; chiefs and rich men own plantations which are situated
at some distance from the village and to which their womenfolk are
sent in times of war.

The Bakalai of Lake Isanga cremate their dead; those of the Upper Ogowé throw the bodies into the
river, with the exception of those killed in war. The body of a chief is placed secretly in a
hut erected in the depths of the forest, and the village is deserted for
that night, in some cases altogether; the slaves of the deceased
are (or were) sacrificed, and his wives scourged and secluded in huts for
a week.

"Natural" deaths are attributed to the machinations of a sorcerer,
and the poison-ordeal is often practised.

Of their social organization little is known, but it appears that nearly all individuals refrain from
eating the flesh of some particular animal.

BAKE, JAN (1787-1864), Dutch philologist and critic, was born at Leiden on the 1st of September 1787, and
from 1817 to 1854 he was professor of Greek and Roman literature at the university. He died on
the 26th of March 1864. His principal works are:--Posidonii Rhodii Reliquiae Doctrinae (1810);
Cleomedis Circularis Doctrina de Sublimitate (1820); Bibliotheca
[v.03 p.0227] Critica Nova (1825-1831) and Scholica Hypomnemata (1837-1862),
a collection of essays dealing mainly with Cicero and the Attic orators;
Cicero, De Legibus (1842) and De Oratore (1863); the Rhetorica of
Apsines and Longinus (1849).

His biography was written (in Dutch) by his pupil Bakhuizen van der
Brink (1865); for an appreciation of his services to classical literature
see L. Müller, Geschichte der klassischen Philologie in den Niederlanden
(1869).

BAKER, SIR BENJAMIN (1840-1907), English engineer, was born near Bath in 1840, and, after receiving his
early training in a South Wales ironworks, became associated with Sir John
Fowler in London.

He took part in the construction of the Metropolitan railway (London), and in
designing the cylindrical vessel in which Cleopatra's Needle, now standing
on the Thames Embankment, London, was brought over from Egypt to
England in 1877-1878.

By this time he had already made himself an authority on bridge-construction, and shortly afterwards he was
engaged on the work which made his reputation with the general public--the design and erection of the Forth
Bridge. On the completion of this undertaking in 1890 he was made K.C.M.G.,
and in the same year the Royal Society recognized his scientific attainments by electing
him one of its fellows. Twelve years later at the formal opening of the Assuan
dam, for which he was consulting-engineer, he was created K.C.B.
Sir Benjamin Baker, who also had a large share in the introduction
of the system widely adopted in London of constructing intra-urban railways
in deep tubular tunnels built up of cast iron segments, obtained
an extremely large professional practice, ranging over almost every
branch of civil engineering, and was more or less directly concerned
with most of the great engineering achievements of his day.

He was also the author of many papers on engineering subjects.

He died at Pangbourne, Berks, on the 19th of May 1907.

BAKER,
HENRY (1698-1774), English naturalist, was born in London on the 8th of May 1698. After serving an
apprenticeship with a bookseller, he devised a system of instructing the deaf and dumb, by the
practice of which he made a considerable fortune. It brought him to the notice of Daniel Defoe,
whose youngest daughter Sophia he married in 1729. A year before, under the name of Henry Stonecastle,
he was associated with Defoe in starting the Universal Spectator and Weekly Journal. In 1740 he was
elected fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and of the Royal Society. He contributed many memoirs to the Transactions
of the latter society, and in 1744 received the Copley gold medal
for microscopical observations on the crystallization of saline particles.

He was one of the founders of the Society of Arts in 1754, and for some time acted as its secretary.
He died in London on the 25th of November 1774. Among his publications were The Microscope made
Easy (1743), Employment for the Microscope (1753), and several volumes of verse, original and
translated, including The Universe, a Poem intended to restrain the
Pride of Man (1727).

His name is perpetuated by the Bakerian lecture of the Royal Society, for the foundation of which
he left by will the sum of £100.

BAKER, SIR RICHARD (1568-1644/5), author of the Chronicle of the Kings of England and other works,
was probably born at Sissinghurst in Kent, and entered Hart Hall, Oxford, as a commoner in 1584. He left the
university without taking a degree, studied law in London and afterwards travelled in Europe.
In 1593 he was chosen member of parliament for Arundel, in 1594 his university conferred upon him the
degree of M.A., and in 1597 he was elected to parliament as the representative
of East Grinstead.

In
1603 he was knighted by King James I., in 1620 he acted as high sheriff at Oxfordshire where he
owned some property, and soon afterwards he married Margaret, daughter
of Sir George Mainwaring, of Ightfield, Shropshire.

By making himself responsible for some debts of his wife's family,
he was reduced to great poverty, which led to the seizure of his Oxfordshire
property in 1625.

Quite penniless, he took refuge in the Fleet prison in 1635, and
was still in confinement when he died on the 18th of February 1644
(1645).

He was buried in the church of St Bride, Fleet Street, London.

During his imprisonment Baker spent his time mainly in writing. His
chief work is the Chronicle of the Kings of England from the Time of the
Romans' Government unto the Death of King James (1643, and many subsequent
editions). It was translated into Dutch in 1649, and was continued down
to 1658 by Edward Phillips, a nephew of John Milton. For many years
the Chronicle was extremely popular, but owing to numerous inaccuracies
its historical value is very slight. Baker also wrote Cato Variegatus
or Catoes Morall Distichs, Translated and Paraphrased by Sir Richard
Baker, Knight (London, 1636); Meditations on the Lord's Prayer (1637);
Translation of New Epistles by Moonsieur D'Balzac (1638); Apologie for
Laymen's Writing in Divinity, with a Short Meditation upon the Fall
of Lucifer (1641); Motives for Prayer upon the seaven dayes of ye
weeke (1642); a translation of Malvezzi's Discourses upon Cornelius
Tacitus (1642), and Theatrum Redivivum, or The Theatre Vindicated,
a reply to the Histrio-Mastix of William Prynne (1642).

     He also wrote Meditations upon several of the psalms of David, which
     have been collected and edited by A. B. Grosart (London, 1882).

     
     See J. Granger, Biographical History of England
     to the Revolution (London, 1804); Biographia Britannica, corrected
by A. Kippis (London, 1778-1793).

BAKER, SIR SAMUEL WHITE (1821-1893), English explorer, was born in
London on the 8th of June 1821.

     He was educated partly in England and partly
     in Germany.
       
     His father, a West India merchant, destined
     him for a commercial career, but a short experience of
     office work proved him to be entirely unsuited to such a life.

On the 3rd of August 1843 he married Henrietta Biddulph Martin, daughter of the rector of Maisemore,
Gloucestershire, and after two years in Mauritius the desire for travel took him in 1846 to Ceylon, where
in the following year he founded an agricultural settlement at Nuwara
Eliya, a mountain health-resort.

Aided
by his brother, he brought emigrants thither from England, together
with choice breeds of cattle, and before long the new settlement was
a success.

During his residence in Ceylon he published, as a result of many adventurous hunting expeditions,
The Rifle and the Hound in Ceylon (1853), and two years later Eight Years' Wanderings in Ceylon
(1855).

After a journey to Constantinople and the Crimea in 1856, he found an outlet for his restless energy
by undertaking the supervision of the construction of a railway across the Dobrudja, connecting
the Danube with the Black Sea.

After its completion he spent some months in a tour in south-eastern
Europe and Asia Minor.

It was during this time that he met in Hungary the lady who (in 1860) became his second wife, Florence,
daughter of Finnian von Sass, his first wife having died in 1855. In March 1861 he started upon his first
tour of exploration in central Africa.

After a year spent on the Sudan-Abyssinian border, during which time he learnt
Arabic, explored the Atbara and other Nile tributaries, and proved
that the Nile sediment came from Abyssinia, he arrived at Khartum,
leaving that city in December 1862 to follow up the course of the
White Nile.

Two months later at Gondokoro he met Speke and Grant, who, after discovering
the source of the Nile, were following the river to Egypt. Their
success made him fear that there was nothing left for his own expedition
to accomplish; but the two explorers generously gave him information
which enabled him, after separating from them, to achieve the discovery
of Albert Nyanza, of whose existence credible assurance had already
been given to Speke and Grant.

     
     
        Baker first sighted the lake on the 14th of March 1864. After some
time spent in the exploration of the neighbourhood, during which Baker
demonstrated that the Nile flowed through the Albert Nyanza--of whose
size he formed an exaggerated idea--he started upon his return journey,
and reached Khartum after many checks in May 1865.

In the following October he returned to England with his wife, who had
accompanied him throughout the whole of the perilous and arduous
journey.

In recognition of the achievements by which Baker had indissolubly
linked his name [v.03 p.0228] with the solution of the problem of
the Nile sources, the Royal Geographical Society awarded him its
gold medal, and a similar distinction was bestowed on him by the
Paris Geographical Society.

In August 1866 he was knighted. In 1868
he published a popular story called Cast up by the Sea. In 1869 he
attended the prince of Wales, afterwards King Edward VII., in a tour
through Egypt. In the same year, at the request of the khedive Ismail,
Baker undertook the command of a military expedition to the equatorial
regions of the Nile, with the object of suppressing the slave-trade
there and opening the way to commerce and civilization.

Before starting
from Cairo with a force of 1700 Egyptian troops--many of them discharged
convicts--he was given the rank of pasha and major-general in the
Ottoman army. Lady Baker, as before, accompanied him. The khedive
appointed him governor-general of the new territory for four years
at a salary of £10,000 a year; and it was not until the expiration
of that time that Baker returned to Cairo, leaving his work to be
carried on by the new governor, Colonel Charles George Gordon. The schools sent forth
a host of eminent men who over all western Europe laid the intellectual basis of the modern
world. This view of Ireland's history might well be expanded almost without limit or possibility
of exaggeration. Receiving, as we saw, the learning and traditions of Rome while Rome was yet
mighty and a name of old imperial renown, Ireland kept and cherished the classical wisdom and
learning, not less than the lore of Palestine. Then the northern garrisons of Rome were beaten
back, and Britain and Gaul alike were devastated by hordes from beyond the Rhine. The first
wild deluge of these fierce invaders was now over, and during the lull of the storm teachers
went forth from Ireland to Scotland, as we have seen; they went also to Britain; to Belgium;
to northern, central and southern Gaul; and to countries beyond the Rhine and in the south;
to Switzerland and Austria, where one Irishman gave his name to the Canton of St. Gall, while
another founded the famous see of Salzburg, a rallying-point through all the Middle Ages. It
was not only for pure spiritual zeal and high inspiration that these teachers were famed. They
had not less renown for all refined learning and culture. The famous universities of Oxford,
Paris and Pavia count among the great spirits at their inception men who were worthy pupils
of the schools of Devenish and Durrow, of Bangor and Moville.

We have recorded the tribute paid by Alfred the Saxon king to the Ireland of his day. Let us
add to it the testimony of a great divine of France. Elias, Bishop of Angoulême, who died in
875, wrote thus: "What need to speak of Ireland; setting at nought, as it does, the difficulties
of the sea, and coming almost in a body to our shores, with its crowd of philosophers, the
most intelligent of whom are subjecting themselves to a voluntary exile."

We have traced the raids of the Northmen for nearly a century. They continued for a century
and a quarter longer. Through all this time the course of the nation's life was as we have
described it: a raid from the sea, or from one of their seaboard fortresses by the Dark Gentiles
or the Fair; an assembling of the hosts of the native chieftains against them; a fierce and
spirited battle against the pirates in their mail-coats and armed with great battle-axes. Sometimes
the chosen people prevailed, and sometimes the Gentiles; but in either case the heads of the
slain were heaped up at the feet of the victor, many cattle were driven away as spoil, and
young men and maidens were taken into captivity. It would seem that at no time was there any
union between the foreigners of one and another seaboard fortress, any more than there was
unity among the tribes whom they raided and who defeated them in their turn. It was a strife
of warring units, without fusion; small groups round chosen leaders, and these merging for
awhile in greater groups. Thus the life of the times, in its warlike aspect. Its spiritual
vigor we have sufficiently shown, not less in the inspirations of the saints than in the fiery
songs of the bards, called forth by battles and the death of kings. Everywhere there was fierce
force and seething energy, bringing forth fruit of piety or prowess.

The raiders slowly lost their grasp of the fortresses they had seized. Newcomers ceased to
fill their thinning ranks. The other, continuing upward, changes its form and appearance. It becomes
a gallery 148 feet long and 28 feet high, built of Mokattam stone, so polished and finely wrought
that it is difficult to put a "needle or even a hair" into the joints
(Note 25). A spirited, fierce,
violent, vengeful and furious battle was fought between them, the likeness of which was not
to be found in that time, at Cluain-tarb, the Lawn of the Bulls. In this battle was slain Brian
son of Ceinneidig, monarch of Ireland, who was the Augustus of all the west of Europe, in the
eighty-eighth year of his age."

The scene of this famous conflict is on the coast, between Dublin and the Hill of Howth. A
wide strand of boulders is laid bare by the receding tide, with green sea-grass carpeting the
stones. At the very verge of the farthest tide are two huge sand-banks, where the waves roar
and rumble with a sound like the bellowing of bulls, and this tumultuous roaring is preserved
in the name of the place unto this day.

XI.

THE PASSING OF THE NORSEMEN.

A.D. 1013-1250.

There was, as we have seen, no "Danish Conquest" of Ireland, nor anything approaching a conquest.
What really happened during the ninth and tenth centuries was this: Raiders from the shores
of the Northern seas, from the Scandinavian peninsula and the Western Isles of Scotland, sailed
in their long ships among the islands of the Irish coast, looking for opportunities to plunder
the treasuries of the religious schools, and carrying off the gold and silver reliquaries and
manuscript cases, far more valuable to these heathen seamen than the Latin or Gaelic manuscripts
they contained. 

The general appearance of the room will be understood from the view of the north aisle reduced
from a photograph (fig. 53)[314].

.]

There are eighteen bookcases,
or desks; namely, ten on the south side of the room, and eight on
the north side (fig. 52).

The material is oak; the workmanship very rude and rough.

I will describe those on the
south side first. Each is 9 feet long by 5 feet 5¼ inches high, measured
from the floor to the top of the finial on the end; and the lower
edge of the desk on which the books lie is 2 feet 6¼ inches above
the floor; but the general plan, and the relative dimensions of the
different parts, will be best understood from the photograph of a
single desk at which a reader is seated (fig. 54), and from the elevation
of one of the ends (fig. 55, A), beside which I have placed the elevation
of one of the desks at Queens' College (B).

The photograph shews that in fixing the height of the desk above
the ground the convenience of readers has been carefully considered.

The iron bar that carries the chains is locked into the ornamental
upright, passes through a staple in the middle of the desk, and into
the upright at the opposite end, which is left plain.

This bar is half an inch in diameter, and one inch above the level of the top of the desk. It
is prevented from bending by passing through a staple fixed in the centre of the desk. A piece
of ornamental iron-work is fixed to the upright. It is made to represent a lock, but is in reality a mere
plate of metal, and the tongue, which looks as though it were intended to move, is only an ornament,
and is pierced by the keyhole. The lock is sunk in the thickness of the wood, behind this plate, and the
bar, which terminates in a knob, is provided with two nicks, into which the bolts of the lock
are shot when the key is turned (fig. 56).

Between each pair of desks there is a seat for the reader.

The desks on the north side of the room differ slightly from those
on the south side.

They are rather larger, the ends are of a different shape and devoid of ornament (fig. 57), and there
is a wider interval between the bar and the top of the desk. It seems to me probable that the more
highly ornamented desks are those which were put in when the room was
first fitted up, and that the others were added from time to time
as new books had to be accommodated.

The books are attached to the desk by the following process.

A chain was taken about 12 inches long, more or less, consisting
of long narrow links of hammered iron.

These links exactly resemble, both in shape and size, those of a chain
which may still be seen in the library of the Grammar School at Guildford,
Surrey[316].

This chain, of which a piece is here figured (fig. 58), was probably made in 1586, or only 23 years after
the building of the library at Zutphen.

It terminates, like those at Zutphen (fig. 59), in a swivel (to prevent entanglement), attached to
the ring which is strung upon the bar. The attachment of the chain
to the book was effected by means of a piece of metal bent round
so as to form a loop through which the last link of the chain was
passed.

The ends of the loop, flattened out, were attached by nail or rivet to the edge of the stout wooden board
which formed the side of the book.

This mode of attachment will be best seen in the volume which I figure next (fig. 60)--a collection
of sermons printed at Nuremberg in 1487.

It is believed to have once belonged to a Dominican House at Bamberg,
in the library of which it was chained[317].

The iron loop in this specimen (fig. 60) is fastened to what I call the
right-hand board of the book; by which I mean the board which is
to the right hand of a reader when the book lies open before him;
but the selection of the right-hand or the left-hand board depended
on individual taste.

Further the mode of attachment is never the same in two examples.
The iron and rivets are often clumsy, and do considerable damage
to the leaves, by forcing them out of shape and staining them with rust.

In
this method of chaining no provision is made for removing any book from
the desk when not wanted, and placing it on a shelf beneath the desk,
as was done in some Italian modifications of the system.

Each volume must lie on the desk, attached by its chain, like a Bible
on a church-lectern.

The smallest number of volumes on any desk at Zutphen is six; the largest, eleven; the total,
316.

Most of those on the south side of the room were printed during the
first half of the sixteenth century; those on the north side are
much later, some as late as 1630. I did not see any manuscripts.

If we now reconsider the indications preserved at Queens' College,
it will, I feel sure, be recognised that the desks at Zutphen explain
them, and enable us to realise the aspect of what I conceive to have
been the most ancient method of fitting up a collegiate or a monastic
library.

When such a room first became necessary in a monastery, and furniture
suitable for it was debated, a lectern would surely suggest itself,
as being used in the numerous daily services, and proving itself singularly
convenient for the support of books while they were being read.

Another example of such fittings was once to be seen at Pembroke College, Cambridge, in the library above
the hall (fig. 48). In Dr Matthew Wren's account of that library already
quoted there is a passage which may be translated as follows:

I would have you know that in the year 1617 the Library was completely
altered and made to assume an entirely new appearance.

This
alteration was rendered necessary by the serious damage which, to our great sorrow, we found the books
had suffered--a damage which was increasing daily--partly from the
sloping form of the desks, partly from the inconvenient weight of
the chains (tum ex declivi pluteorum fabricâ, tum ex ineptâ mole catenarum)[318].

These

desks were copied at S. John's College in the same University.

A contract dated 20 June, 1516, provides that the contractor

shall make all the Desks in the Library wythin the said college of good
and substanciall and abyll Tymber of Oke mete and convenient for
the same Library, aftir and accordyng to the Library within ... Pembroke
Hall[319].

The Library here referred to was on the first floor to the south of the Great
Gate of the college.

It is now divided into chambers, but its original extent can be readily made out by its range of equidistant
windows.

The wall-spaces dividing these are 28½ inches wide, practically the same as those
at Queens' College.

At Peterhouse also a similar arrangement seems to have subsisted when
the catalogue of 1418 was made.

The very first book, a Bible, is said to stand "in the sixth lectern on the west side (lectrino 6^o ex
parte occidentali)." The word lectrinum is unusual, but it emphasizes the form of the desk
more clearly than any other.

A splendid example of this type of case is to be seen at Lincoln (fig.
61), where three "stalls" or desks, belonging to the old library already
described[320], are still preserved.

Each is about 7 ft. long, 3 ft. broad, and 4 ft. 4 in. high to the
top of the sloping portion.

At each end, and in the centre, is a massive molded standard, 7 ft. 2 in. high,
terminating in a boldly carved finial; and these three standards are
connected together by a band of open-work, of a design similar to
that of the cornice of the library.

Half way between this band and the top of the desk is the bar to
carry the chains, now of wood, but formerly of course of iron; and
below this again is a shelf 18 in. wide, projecting slightly beyond
the sloping portion of the desk.

The edge of the desk is protected by a ledge, as usual, and under it
is a second shelf extending the whole width of the piece of furniture.
What was the use of these shelves? As the bar is above the desk, not
below it, the books must have reposed, as a general rule, upon the
desk, instead of being laid on their sides on the shelf below it when
not wanted by a reader.

The chains would not have been long enough to allow of any other
arrangement.

I
think, therefore, that the lower shelf must have been a constructional
contrivance, to assist in keeping the standards in their places.

The narrow upper shelf, on the other hand, was probably intended for the convenience of the reader.
He might place on it, temporarily, any book that he was not using, and which got in his way while
he was reading one of those beside it; or, if he was making extracts,
he might set his inkstand upon it.

These desks evidently stood in the old library against the shafts
of the roof, for one of the ends has been hollowed out in each to
receive the shaft; and the finial, which is left plain on that side,
is bent over slightly, to admit it under the brace (fig. 39).

As I have now described three varieties of the lectern-system, I will
place before my readers, side by side, elevations of each of the three
(fig. 62) drawn to the same scale. It will be seen that they resemble
each other exactly in essentials.

The differences observable are accidental, and may be referred to
individual taste.

That this form of desk was recognised on the continent as typical
of library-fittings is proved by its appearance in a French translation
of the first book of the Consolation of Philosophy of Boethius, which
I had the good fortune to find in the British Museum[321] (fig. 63).

This manuscript was written in Flanders towards the end of the fifteenth
century. In such a work the library shewn requires what I may term
generalised fittings.

An eccentric
peculiarity would have been quite inadmissible.

In the Stadtbibliothek of Nuremberg some of the oldest works on jurisprudence
still preserve their chains.

Each has a short chain about 12 in. long fixed on the upper edge of the left-hand
board. The title is written on the middle of the upper edge of the right-hand
board. It is obvious that these volumes must have lain on a desk
with their titles uppermost[322].

It is probable that similar fittings were used in the library of the
Sorbonne, Paris, which was first established in 1289, with books
chained for the common convenience of the Fellows (in communem sociorum
utilitatem)[323].

This library was divided into two separate collections, which formed,
so to speak, two distinct libraries. The first, called the great library,
or the common library, contained the books most frequently studied.
They were chained, and could only be taken out under the most exceptional
circumstances.

A statute, dated 1321, the provisions of which recall the collegiate statutes summarised above, directed
that the best book the society possessed on each subject should be
thus chained.

The second division of the library, called the small library, contained duplicates, books rarely consulted,
and generally all those of which the loan was authorised under certain
conditions[324].

The following description of this library has been given by Claude Héméré (Librarian
1638-43) in his MS. history. This I proceed to translate:

The old library was contained under one roof.

It was firmly and solidly built, and was 120 feet long by 36 feet broad....
Each side was pierced with 19 windows of equal size, that plenty
of daylight both from the east and the west (for this was the direction
of the room) might fall upon the desks, and fill the whole length
and breadth of the library.

There were 28 desks, marked with the letters of the alphabet, five feet
high, and so arranged that they were separated by a moderate interval.

They were loaded with books, all of which were chained, that no sacrilegious
hand might [carry them off.

These chains were attached to the right-hand board of every book] so that they
might be readily thrown aside, and reading not be interfered with.

Moreover the volumes could be opened and shut without difficulty. A reader who sat down in the space
between two desks, as they rose to a height of five feet as I said
above, neither saw nor disturbed any one else who might be reading
or writing in another place by talking or by any other interruption,
unless the other student wished it, or paid attention to any question
that might be put to him.

It
was required, by the ancient rules of the library, that reading, writing,
and handling of books should go forward in complete silence[325].

This description indicates desks similar to those of Zutphen. Even
the height is the same.

A library which vividly recalls the above account, with 19 windows on
one side and probably the same number on the other, was built in
1506 for the Collège de Navarre, Paris, now the École Polytechnique[326].

My illustration (fig.
64) is from a photograph taken shortly before its destruction in 1867. I have calculated that it was about
108 ft. long by 30 ft. wide.

The library of the Collège d'Autun, Paris, was similarly arranged.

An inventory taken 29 July, 1462, records: "dix bancs doubles, à se seoir
d'une part et d'autre, et ung poupitre; esquelz bancs et poupitre out
esté trouvez enchaisnez les livres qui s'ensuyvent, qui sont intitulez
sur la couverture d'iceulx[327]."

The catalogue enumerates 174 volumes, or rather more than 17 for each
"banc" or lectern.

The expression bancs doubles is interesting, as it seems to imply
that there were at that time libraries in which bancs simples were
used; that is to say, lecterns with only one sloping surface instead
of two.

A study of the catalogue drawn up in 1513 for the Augustinian House
of S. Victor, Paris, by Claude de Grandrue, one of the monks, shews
that the same system must have been in use there.

Further, his catalogue is an excellent specimen of the pains taken
in a large monastery to describe the books accurately, and to provide
ready access to them.

A brief prefatory note informs us that the desks are arranged in three rows, and marked with a triple
series of letters. The first row is marked A, B, C, etc.; the second AA, BB, etc.; the third AAA, BBB,
etc. To each of these letters are appended the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4
and so on, to shew the position of the required volume.

For instance--to take one at random--Abælardi confessio is marked P. 13: that is, it is the thirteenth
book on the desk in the first row marked P. When the catalogue proper--in
which each manuscript is carefully described--was finished, the author
increased its usefulness by the composition of an alphabetical index[328].

How,
I shall be asked, can the form of the bookcase or desk (pulpitum) be inferred
from this catalogue?

I reply: In the first place, because there are no shelf-marks. The
librarian notes the letter of the desk, and the place of each book
on it, but nothing more.

Secondly, because the number of manuscripts accommodated on each
desk is so small.

There are 50 desks, and 988 manuscripts--or, an average of little
more than 19 to each.

At Zutphen the average is exactly 18. This piece of evidence, however,
is so important that I will give it in detail. The following table,
compiled by myself from the catalogue, gives the letters used to
mark the desks, and the number of manuscripts on each.

A 13 | AA 13 | AAA 15 B 21 | BB 16 | BBB 16 C 13 | CC 19 | CCC 17
D 18 | DD 18 | DDD 19 E 17 | EE 21 | EEE 17 F 20 | FF 17 | FFF 29
G 18 | GG 18 | GGG 24 H 16 | HH 17 | HHH 29 I 16 | II 23 | III 25
K 17 | KK 21 | KKK 29 L 22 | LL 21 | LLL 23 M 21 | MM 20 | MMM 26
N 18 | NN 20 | ---- O 14 | OO 13 | 269 P 19 | PP 23 | Q 22 | QQ 27
| R 14 | RR 26 | S 14 | SS 28 | T 21 | TT 24 | ----| ----| 334 | 385
|

These totals give a general total of 988 manuscripts, which, divided
by 50, makes the average number for each desk, as stated above, 19·76.

Further, my theory is supported by the positive evidence of a description of
this library (unfortunately without date) quoted by M. Delisle: "Les
livres estoient couchez et enchaisnez, sur de longs pupitres, et
une allée entre deux[329]."

It is obvious that the English system of placing each lectern between
a pair of windows could not have been maintained here.

At Queens' College, Cambridge, the catalogue, dated 1472, enumerates
192 volumes, divided over 10 desks and 4 half-desks, each called
a step (gradus).

There were (avoiding fractions) 8 books on each half-desk, and 15 on each complete
desk; so that by comparing the plan (fig. 50) and elevation of a desk
(fig. 51) with the views of the library at Zutphen, a good idea of
a college library in the fifteenth century can be obtained.

Before I leave the lectern-system, I will describe two eccentric specimens
of it.

The first
is still to be seen at Trinity Hall, Cambridge; the second once existed
at the University of Leyden.

The library of Trinity Hall is thoroughly medieval in plan, being a long
narrow room on the first floor of the north side of the second court,
65 feet long by 20 feet wide, with eight equidistant windows in each
side-wall, and a window of four lights in the western gable.

It was built about 1600, but the fittings are even later, having been added between
1626 and 1645 during the mastership of Thomas Eden, LL.D. They are
therefore a deliberate return to ancient forms at a time when a different
type had been adopted elsewhere.

There are five desks and six seats on each side of the room, placed,
as usual, at right angles to the side-walls, in the inter spaces of
the windows, and in front of the windows, respectively.

Their arrangement, and the details of their construction, will be understood
from the general view (fig. 65), and from the elevation (fig. 66).

These lecterns are of oak, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 7 feet high,
measured to the top of the ornamental finial.

There is a sloping desk at the top, beneath which is a single shelf (fig. 66,
A). The bar for the chains passes under the desk, through the two
vertical ends of the case.

At the end farthest from the wall, the hasp of the lock is hinged to the
bar and secured by two keys (fig. 67). Beneath the shelf there is at
either end a slip of wood (fig. 66, B), which indicates that there
was once a moveable desk which could be pulled out when required.

The reader could therefore consult his convenience, and work either
sitting or standing (fig. 65). For both these positions the heights
are very suitable, and at the bottom of the case was a plinth (fig.
66, C), on which he could set his feet. The seats between each pair
of desks were of course put up at the same time as the desks themselves.
They shew an advance in comfort, being divided into two, so as to allow
support to the reader's back.

Similar desks occur in a beautiful miniature (fig. 68) from a manuscript (now
in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge[330]) written in France about 1480.
They appear to be solid--possibly fitted with cupboards for books
under the sloping portion.

No seats are
shewn, and, as a reader is standing between them consulting a book, it may be concluded
that they could only be used by students in that position.

Lastly, I reproduce (fig. 69) a print by Jan Cornelis Woudanus, shewing
the library of the University of Leyden in 1610[331].

The bookcases were evidently contrived with the view of getting the largest
number possible into the room. Each contained a single row of books,
chained to a bar in front of the shelf; and, also for the purpose of
saving the space usually occupied by a seat, readers were obliged
to consult them standing.

There are eleven bookcases on each side of the room, each containing from
40 to 48 volumes.

At the end of the room are two cupboards, probably for manuscripts;
and to the right of the spectator is a third press, marked Legatum
Josephi Scaligeri.

He died in January, 1609. Further, as an illustration of the usual
appliances for study found in libraries at this period, and often mentioned
in catalogues and account-books, I would draw attention to the globes and maps.

I
present these bookcases at this point of my researches with some
diffidence, for they can hardly be said to represent the lectern-system.

On the other hand, they do not exactly represent any other; and I therefore
submit that they may be looked at here, as transitional specimens, bridging
over the interval between the desks we have lately been considering, and those
which we shall have to consider in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[258] The Statutes of the Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge bearing
on the care of books have been thoroughly analysed by Professor Willis
in his essay on "The Library," Arch.

Hist. III. pp. 387-471, which I edited and completed. I have therefore
not thought it necessary to acknowledge each quotation separately,
but I wish it to be understood that this section of my present book
is to a great extent borrowed from him.

[259] Wood,
History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford, ed. Gutch, 4to.
Oxford, 1796, Vol. II. Part 2, p. 910.

[260] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. 1. Statutes of Merton College, Cap.
2, p. 24.

[261] Sketch of the Life of Walter de Merton, by Edmund
[Hobhouse], Bishop of Nelson, New Zealand, 8vo.

Oxford,
1859, p. 39.

[262] Annals of University College, by Wm. Smith, 8vo. 1728,
pp. 37-39.

I have
compared Mr Smith's version with the Statute as printed by Anstey,
Munimenta Academica, I. 58, 59, and have made a few corrections.

[263] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. I. Statutes of Oriel College,
p. 14.

[264] Ibid. p. 22.

[265] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 38. De omnibus libris Domus,
Munimentis, et Chartis custodiendis.

[266] Ibid. p. 17. De Duobus Decanis
et eorum officio.

[267] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II.
44. Statutum de libris Collegii.

[268] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 432. De libris Collegii.

[269] The words are "in libraria communi ... ad sociorum communem usum
continue remanere."


While the Norse foreigners were a power at Dublin, Waterford, Cork and Limerick, there were
not wanting occasions when one of the native tribes called on them for aid against another
tribe, sharing with them the joys of victory or the sorrow of defeat, and, where fortune favored,
dividing with them the "countless cows" taken in a raid. In like manner the Cinel Eogain, as
we saw, hired the fleet of the Norsemen of the Western Isles of Scotland to help them to resist
a raid of the Connachtmen. The example thus set was followed repeatedly in the coming years,
and we find mention of Flemings, Welshmen and Saxons brought over to take one side or other
in the tribal wars.

In the same year that saw the two assemblings of the chieftains under Ruaidri Ua Concobar,
another chieftain, Diarmaid son of Murcad brought in from "the land of the Saxons," as it was
called, one of these bands of foreign mercenaries, for the most part Welsh descendants of the
old Gaelic Britons, to aid him in his contest for "the kingdom of the sons of Ceinnsealaig."
Two years later, Ruaidri Ua Concobar "granted ten cows every year from himself and from every
king that should follow him for ever, to the Lector of Ard Maca, in honor of Patrick, to instruct
the youths of Ireland and Alba in Literature."

For the next year, 1170, we find this record: "Robert Mac Stepni and Ricard Mac Gillebert--Iarl
Strangbow--came from Saxonland into Erin with a numerous force, and many knights and archers,
in the army of the son of Murcad, to contest Leinster for him, and to disturb the Gaels of
Erin in general; and the son of Murcad gave his daughter to Iarl Strangbow for coming into
his army. They took Loch Garman--Wexford--and Port Lairge--Waterford--by force; and they took
Gillemaire the officer of the fortress and Ua Faelain lord of the Deisi and his son, and they
killed seven hundred persons there. Domnall Breagac with numbers of the men of Breag fell by
the Leinstermen on that occasion. An army was led by Ruaidri Ua Concobar with the lord of Breifne
and the lord of Oirgialla against Leinster and the Foreigners aforesaid, and there was a challenge
of battle between them for the space of three days." This contest was indecisive. The most
noteworthy event of the battle was the plundering and slaughter of the Danes of At-Cliat by
the newcomers under Iarl Strangbow. The Danes had long before this given up their old pagan
faith, converted by their captives and their Gaelic neighbors. Christ Church Cathedral in At-Cliat
or Dublin was founded early in the preceding century by Sitric son of Olaf, king of the Danes
of Dublin, and Donatus the first Danish bishop; but the oldest part of the present structure
belongs to the time we are now speaking of: the close of the twelfth century. The transepts
with their chevron mouldings and the principal doorway are of that period, and we may regard
them as an offering in expiation of the early heathen raids on Lambay, Saint Patrick's Isle,
and the early schools of the church.

The ambitious Diarmaid Mac Murcad died shortly after the last battle we have recorded, "perishing
without sacrament, of a loathsome disease;" a manifest judgment, in the eyes of the Chronicler,
for the crime of bringing the Normans to Ireland. In the year that saw his death, "Henry the
Second, king of the Saxons and duke of the Normans, came to Ireland with two hundred and forty
ships." He established a footing in the land, as one of many contesting powers, but the immediate
results of his coming were slight. This we can judge from the record of three years later:
"A brave battle was fought by the Foreigners under Iarl Strangbow and the Gaels under Ruaidri
Ua Concobar at Thurles, in which the Foreigners were finally defeated by dint of fighting.
Seventeen hundred of the Foreigners were slain in the battle, and only a few of them survived
with the Iarl, who proceeded in sorrow to his home at Port Lairge--Waterford." On the north or inner side
are the houses and apartments of the Dean and Canons of St. George's
Chapel, with those of the minor canons, clerks, and other officers;
and on the south and west sides of the outer part are the houses of
the Poor Knights of Windsor.

The Engraving represents the south front of the Chapel as it presents
itself to the passenger through Henry the Eighth's Gateway, the principal
entrance to the Lower Ward.

The entrance to the Chapel, as shown in the Engraving, is that generally
used, and was formed by command of George the Fourth; through which
his Majesty's remains were borne, according to a wish expressed some
time previous to his death.

The exterior of the Chapel requires but few descriptive details. The interior will be found in our
last volume.

It is a beautiful structure, in the purest style of the Pointed architecture,
and was founded by Edward the Third, in 1377, for the honour of the Order
of the Garter. But however noble the first design, it was improved by Edward
the Fourth and Henry the Seventh, in whose reign the famous Sir Reg. Bray,
K.G., assisted in ornamenting the chapel and completing the roof. The
architecture of the inside has ever been esteemed for its great beauty;
and, in particular, the stone vaulting is reckoned an excellent piece
of workmanship. It is an ellipsis, supported by lofty pillars, whose
ribs and groins sustain the whole roof, every part of which has some
different device well finished, as the arms of several of our kings,
great families, &c. On each side of the choir are the stalls of the
Sovereign and Knights of the Garter, with the helmet, mantling, crest,
and sword of each knight, set up over his stall, on a canopy of ancient
carving curiously wrought.

Over the canopy is affixed the banner of each knight blazoned on silk,
and on the backs of the stalls are the titles of the knights, with
their arms neatly engraved and emblazoned on copper.

There are several small chapels in this edifice, in which are the monuments
of many illustrious persons; particularly of Edward, Earl of Lincoln,
a renowned naval warrior; George Manners, Lord Roos, and Anne, his
consort, niece of Edward the Fourth; Anne, Duchess of Exeter, mother
of that lady, and sister to the king; Sir Reginald Bray, before mentioned;
and Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk, who married the sister of King
Henry the Eighth.

At the east end of St. George's Chapel is a freestone edifice, built by Henry
the Seventh, as a burial-place for himself and his successors; but afterwards
altering his purpose, he began the more noble structure at Westminster;
and this remained neglected until Cardinal Wolsey obtained a grant
of it from Henry the Eighth, and, with a profusion of expense, began
here a sumptuous monument for himself, whence this building obtained
the name of Wolsey's Tomb House.

This monument was so magnificently built, that it exceeded that of Henry
the Seventh, in Westminster Abbey; and at the time of the cardinal's
disgrace, the tomb was so far executed, that Benedetto, a statuary
of Florence, received 4,250 ducats for what he had already done; and
380l.

 In truth no country
in the world has so full and rich a record in lasting stone, beginning with the dwellings of
the early saints who had seen the first Messenger face to face, and passing down through age
after age, showing the life and growth of the faith from generation to generation.

The schools, as we saw, carried on the old classical tradition, bringing forth monuments like
the Annals of Tigearnac; and there was the same vigor and vital force in every part of the
nation's life. The coming of the Normans changed this in no essential regard. There was something
added in architecture, the Norman modifying the old native style; the castle and keep gradually
taking the place of the earthwork and stone fort. And in the tenure of land certain new principles
were introduced. But the sum of national life went on unbroken, less modified, probably, than
it had been by the old Norse raids.

XII.

THE NORMANS.

A.D. 1250-1603.

When summing up each epoch of Irish history, we may find both interest and profit in considering
what the future of the land and the people might have been had certain new elements not been
added. Thus we may try to picture to ourselves what would have been our history had our life
moved forward from the times of Cuculain and Concobar, of Find and Cormac son of Art, without
that transforming power which the fifth century brought. We may imagine the tribal strife and
stress growing keener and fiercer, till the whole life and strength of the people was fruitlessly
consumed in plundering and destroying.

Or we may imagine an unbroken continuance of the epoch of saintly aspiration, the building
of churches, the illumination of holy books, so dividing the religious from the secular community
as almost to make two nations in one, a nation altogether absorbed in the present life, with
another nation living in its midst, but dwelling wholly in the thought of the other world.
Religion would have grown to superstition, ecstasy would have ruled in the hearts of the religious
devotees, weakening their hold on the real, and wafting them away into misty regions of paradise.
We should have had every exaggeration of ascetic practice, hermitages multiplying among the
rocks and islands of the sea, men and women torturing their bodies for the saving of their souls.

The raids of the Norsemen turned the strong aspirations of the religious schools into better
channels, bringing them to a sense of their identity with the rest of the people, compelling
them to bear their part of the burden of calamity and strife. The two nations which might have
wandered farther and farther apart were thus welded into one, so that the spirit of religion
became what it has ever since remained, something essential and inherent in the life of the
whole people.

After the waning of the Norsemen, a period opened full of great national promise in many ways.
We see the church strengthened and confirmed, putting forth its power in admirable works of
art, churches and cathedrals full of the fire and fervor of devotion, and conceived in a style
truly national, with a sense of beauty altogether its own. Good morals and generous feeling
mark the whole life of the church through this period, and the great archbishop whose figure
we have drawn in outline is only one of many fine and vigorous souls among his contemporaries.

The civil life of the nation, too, shows signs of singular promise at the same time, a promise
embodied in the person of the king of Connacht, Ruaidri Ua Concobar, some of whose deeds we
have recorded. There was a clearer sense of national feeling and national unity than ever before,
a recognition of the method of conciliation and mutual understanding, rather than the old appeal
to armed force, as under the genius of tribal strife. We see Ruaidri convoking the kings, chieftains
and warriors to a solemn assembly, presided over by the king and the archbishops of the realm,
and "passing good resolutions" for the settlement of religious and civil matters, and the better
ordering of territories and tribes. That assembly was convened a half-century before the famous
meeting between King John and his barons, at Runnymead among the Windsor meadows; and the seed
then sown might have brought forth fruit as full of promise and potency for the future as the
Great Charter itself. The contrast between these two historic assemblies is instructive. In
the one case, we have a provincial king from the rich and beautiful country beyond the Shannon,
gradually gaining such influence over the kings of the provinces and the chieftains of the
tribes that he had come to be regarded as in a sense the overlord of the whole land, not through
inherent sovreignty or divine right, but first as the chosen chief of his own tribe, and then
as the elect of the whole body of chieftains, first among his peers. In this character we see
Ruaidri settling disputes between two sections of the great Northern clan, and fixing a boundary
between them; giving presents to the chieftains of the south for their support in this difficult
decision, and exercising a beneficent influence over the whole people, a moral sway rather
than a sovereign and despotic authority. It is pleasant to find the same king establishing
a college foundation for the instruction of the youth of Ireland and Scotland in literature.

This is what we have on the one hand. The general appearance of the room will be understood from
the view of the north aisle reduced from a photograph (fig. 53)[314].

.]

There
are eighteen bookcases, or desks; namely, ten on the south side of
the room, and eight on the north side (fig. 52).

The material is oak; the workmanship very rude and rough.

I will
describe those on the south side first. Each is 9 feet long by 5 feet
5¼ inches high, measured from the floor to the top of the finial
on the end; and the lower edge of the desk on which the books lie
is 2 feet 6¼ inches above the floor; but the general plan, and the
relative dimensions of the different parts, will be best understood
from the photograph of a single desk at which a reader is seated (fig.
54), and from the elevation of one of the ends (fig. 55, A), beside
which I have placed the elevation of one of the desks at Queens' College
(B).

The photograph shews that in fixing the height of the desk above
the ground the convenience of readers has been carefully considered.

The iron bar that carries the chains is locked into the ornamental upright, passes through a
staple in the middle of the desk, and into the upright at the opposite end, which is left plain.
This bar is half an inch in diameter, and one inch above the level of the top of the desk. It is
prevented from bending by passing through a staple fixed in the centre of the desk. A piece of ornamental
iron-work is fixed to the upright. It is made to represent a lock,
but is in reality a mere plate of metal, and the tongue, which looks as though
it were intended to move, is only an ornament, and is pierced by
the keyhole.

The lock is sunk in the thickness of the wood, behind this plate, and the bar,
which terminates in a knob, is provided with two nicks, into which
the bolts of the lock are shot when the key is turned (fig. 56).

Between each pair of desks there is a seat for the reader.

The desks on the north side of the room differ slightly from those
on the south side.

They are rather larger, the ends are of a different shape and devoid
of ornament (fig. 57), and there is a wider interval between the
bar and the top of the desk.

It seems to me probable that the more highly ornamented desks are those which were put in when the
room was first fitted up, and that the others were added from time to time as new books had to be
accommodated.

The books are attached to the desk by the following process. A chain was taken about 12 inches long,
more or less, consisting of long narrow links of hammered iron.

These links exactly resemble, both in shape and size, those of a chain which may still be
seen in the library of the Grammar School at Guildford, Surrey[316]. This chain, of which a piece
is here figured (fig. 58), was probably made in 1586, or only 23
years after the building of the library at Zutphen.

It terminates, like those at Zutphen (fig. 59), in a swivel (to prevent
entanglement), attached to the ring which is strung upon the bar. The
attachment of the chain to the book was effected by means of a piece
of metal bent round so as to form a loop through which the last link
of the chain was passed.

The ends of the loop, flattened out, were attached by nail or rivet
to the edge of the stout wooden board which formed the side of the
book.

This mode of attachment will be best seen in the volume which I figure
next (fig. 60)--a collection of sermons printed at Nuremberg in 1487.

It is believed to have once belonged to a Dominican House at Bamberg,
in the library of which it was chained[317].

The iron loop in this specimen (fig. 60) is fastened to what I call the right-hand board of the
book; by which I mean the board which is to the right hand of a reader when the book lies open before
him; but the selection of the right-hand or the left-hand board depended on individual taste. Further the mode
of attachment is never the same in two examples.

The iron and rivets are often clumsy, and do considerable damage to the leaves, by forcing them
out of shape and staining them with rust.

In this method of chaining no provision is made for removing any book
from the desk when not wanted, and placing it on a shelf beneath the
desk, as was done in some Italian modifications of the system.

Each volume must lie on the desk, attached by its chain, like a Bible on a church-lectern. The smallest
number of volumes on any desk at Zutphen is six; the largest, eleven;
the total, 316.

Most of those on the south side of the room were printed during the first
half of the sixteenth century; those on the north side are much later,
some as late as 1630.

I did not see any manuscripts.

If we now reconsider the indications preserved at Queens' College, it
will, I feel sure, be recognised that the desks at Zutphen explain
them, and enable us to realise the aspect of what I conceive to have
been the most ancient method of fitting up a collegiate or a monastic
library.

When such a room first became necessary in a monastery, and furniture suitable for it was debated,
a lectern would surely suggest itself, as being used in the numerous daily services, and proving
itself singularly convenient for the support of books while they
were being read.

Another example of such fittings was once to be seen at Pembroke College,
Cambridge, in the library above the hall (fig. 48).

In Dr Matthew Wren's account of that library already quoted there is
a passage which may be translated as follows:

I would have you know that in the year 1617 the Library was completely
altered and made to assume an entirely new appearance. This alteration
was rendered necessary by the serious damage which, to our great
sorrow, we found the books had suffered--a damage which was increasing
daily--partly from the sloping form of the desks, partly from the
inconvenient weight of the chains (tum ex declivi pluteorum fabricâ,
tum ex ineptâ mole catenarum)[318].

These desks were copied at S. John's College in the same University.
A contract dated 20 June, 1516, provides that the contractor

shall make all the Desks in the Library wythin the said college of
good and substanciall and abyll Tymber of Oke mete and convenient
for the same Library, aftir and accordyng to the Library within ...
Pembroke Hall[319].

The Library here referred to was on the first floor to the south of
the Great Gate of the college.

It is now divided into chambers, but its original extent can be readily made
out by its range of equidistant windows.

The wall-spaces dividing these are 28½ inches wide, practically the
same as those at Queens' College.

At Peterhouse also a similar arrangement seems to have subsisted when
the catalogue of 1418 was made.

The very first book, a Bible, is said to stand "in the sixth lectern
on the west side (lectrino 6^o ex parte occidentali)." The word lectrinum
is unusual, but it emphasizes the form of the desk more clearly than any
other.

A splendid example of this type of case is to be seen at Lincoln (fig.
61), where three "stalls" or desks, belonging to the old library already
described[320], are still preserved.

Each is about 7 ft. long, 3 ft. broad, and 4 ft. 4 in. high to the
top of the sloping portion.

At each end, and in the centre, is a massive molded standard, 7 ft. 2 in. high, terminating in a boldly
carved finial; and these three standards are connected together by
a band of open-work, of a design similar to that of the cornice of
the library.

Half way between this band and the top of the desk is the bar to carry
the chains, now of wood, but formerly of course of iron; and below
this again is a shelf 18 in. wide, projecting slightly beyond the
sloping portion of the desk.

The edge of the desk is protected by a ledge, as usual, and under it is a second shelf extending
the whole width of the piece of furniture. What was the use of these shelves? As the bar is above
the desk, not below it, the books must have reposed, as a general
rule, upon the desk, instead of being laid on their sides on the shelf
below it when not wanted by a reader.

The chains would not have been long enough to allow of any other arrangement. I think, therefore,
that the lower shelf must have been a constructional contrivance, to assist in keeping the
standards in their places. The narrow upper shelf, on the other hand, was probably intended for the
convenience of the reader.

He might place on it, temporarily, any book that he was not using, and which got in his way while
he was reading one of those beside it; or, if he was making extracts,
he might set his inkstand upon it.

These desks evidently stood in the old library against the shafts of the roof, for one of the ends
has been hollowed out in each to receive the shaft; and the finial, which is left plain on that
side, is bent over slightly, to admit it under the brace (fig. 39).

As I have now described three varieties of the lectern-system, I will
place before my readers, side by side, elevations of each of the
three (fig. 62) drawn to the same scale.

It will be seen that they resemble each other exactly in essentials.
The differences observable are accidental, and may be referred to individual
taste.

That this form of desk was recognised on the continent as typical of library-fittings is proved by
its appearance in a French translation of the first book of the
Consolation of Philosophy of Boethius, which I had the good fortune
to find in the British Museum[321] (fig. 63).

This manuscript was written in Flanders towards the end of the fifteenth
century. In such a work the library shewn requires what I may term generalised
fittings. An eccentric peculiarity would have been quite inadmissible.

In
the Stadtbibliothek of Nuremberg some of the oldest works on jurisprudence
still preserve their chains.

Each has a short chain about 12 in. long fixed on the upper edge of the left-hand
board. The title is written on the middle of the upper edge of the
right-hand board.

It is obvious that these volumes must have lain on a desk with their
titles uppermost[322].

It is probable that similar fittings were used in the library of the
Sorbonne, Paris, which was first established in 1289, with books chained
for the common convenience of the Fellows (in communem sociorum utilitatem)[323].

This library was divided into two separate collections, which formed, so to speak, two distinct libraries.
The first, called the great library, or the common library, contained
the books most frequently studied.

They were chained, and could only be taken out under the most exceptional
circumstances.

A statute,
dated 1321, the provisions of which recall the collegiate statutes summarised
above, directed that the best book the society possessed on each
subject should be thus chained.

The second division of the library, called the small library, contained duplicates, books rarely
consulted, and generally all those of which the loan was authorised under certain conditions[324].
The following description of this library has been given by Claude
Héméré (Librarian 1638-43) in his MS. history.

This I proceed to translate:

The old library was contained under one roof.

It was firmly and solidly built, and was 120 feet long by 36 feet
broad.... Each side was pierced with 19 windows of equal size, that
plenty of daylight both from the east and the west (for this was the
direction of the room) might fall upon the desks, and fill the whole
length and breadth of the library.

There were 28 desks, marked with the letters of the alphabet, five feet high,
and so arranged that they were separated by a moderate interval.

They were loaded with books, all of which were chained, that no
sacrilegious hand might [carry them off.

These chains were attached to the right-hand board of every book] so that
they might be readily thrown aside, and reading not be interfered with.
Moreover the volumes could be opened and shut without difficulty.

A reader who sat down in the space between two desks, as they rose to
a height of five feet as I said above, neither saw nor disturbed any one
else who might be reading or writing in another place by talking
or by any other interruption, unless the other student wished it,
or paid attention to any question that might be put to him.

It was required, by the ancient rules of the library, that reading,
writing, and handling of books should go forward in complete silence[325].

This

description indicates desks similar to those of Zutphen. Even the height
is the same.

A library which vividly recalls the above account, with 19 windows
on one side and probably the same number on the other, was built in
1506 for the Collège de Navarre, Paris, now the École Polytechnique[326].

My illustration (fig. 64) is from a photograph taken shortly before its destruction in 1867. I have
calculated that it was about 108 ft. long by 30 ft. wide.

The library of the Collège d'Autun, Paris, was similarly arranged. An
inventory taken 29 July, 1462, records: "dix bancs doubles, à se
seoir d'une part et d'autre, et ung poupitre; esquelz bancs et poupitre
out esté trouvez enchaisnez les livres qui s'ensuyvent, qui sont intitulez
sur la couverture d'iceulx[327]."

The catalogue enumerates 174 volumes, or rather more than 17 for each
"banc" or lectern.

The expression bancs doubles is interesting, as it seems to imply
that there were at that time libraries in which bancs simples were
used; that is to say, lecterns with only one sloping surface instead
of two.

A study of the catalogue drawn up in 1513 for the Augustinian House of S. Victor, Paris, by Claude
de Grandrue, one of the monks, shews that the same system must have been in use there. Further,
his catalogue is an excellent specimen of the pains taken in a large
monastery to describe the books accurately, and to provide ready access
to them.

A brief prefatory note informs us that the desks are arranged in three
rows, and marked with a triple series of letters. The first row is
marked A, B, C, etc.; the second AA, BB, etc.; the third AAA, BBB,
etc. To each of these letters are appended the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4
and so on, to shew the position of the required volume.

For instance--to take one at random--Abælardi confessio is marked P. 13: that
is, it is the thirteenth book on the desk in the first row marked
P. When the catalogue proper--in which each manuscript is carefully
described--was finished, the author increased its usefulness by the
composition of an alphabetical index[328].

How, I shall be asked, can the form of the bookcase or desk (pulpitum)
be inferred from this catalogue?

I reply: In the first place, because there are no shelf-marks. The librarian notes the letter
of the desk, and the place of each book on it, but nothing more. Secondly, because the number of manuscripts
accommodated on each desk is so small. There are 50 desks, and 988
manuscripts--or, an average of little more than 19 to each. At Zutphen
the average is exactly 18.

This piece of evidence, however, is so important that I will give it in detail.
The following table, compiled by myself from the catalogue, gives
the letters used to mark the desks, and the number of manuscripts
on each.

A 13 | AA 13 | AAA 15 B 21 | BB 16 | BBB 16 C 13 | CC 19 | CCC 17 D
18 | DD 18 | DDD 19 E 17 | EE 21 | EEE 17 F 20 | FF 17 | FFF 29 G
18 | GG 18 | GGG 24 H 16 | HH 17 | HHH 29 I 16 | II 23 | III 25 K
17 | KK 21 | KKK 29 L 22 | LL 21 | LLL 23 M 21 | MM 20 | MMM 26 N
18 | NN 20 | ---- O 14 | OO 13 | 269 P 19 | PP 23 | Q 22 | QQ 27 |
R 14 | RR 26 | S 14 | SS 28 | T 21 | TT 24 | ----| ----| 334 | 385
|

These totals give a general total of 988 manuscripts, which, divided
by 50, makes the average number for each desk, as stated above, 19·76.

Further, my theory is supported by the positive evidence of a description
of this library (unfortunately without date) quoted by M. Delisle:
"Les livres estoient couchez et enchaisnez, sur de longs pupitres,
et une allée entre deux[329]."

It is obvious that the English system of placing each lectern between
a pair of windows could not have been maintained here.

At Queens' College, Cambridge, the catalogue, dated 1472, enumerates 192 volumes,
divided over 10 desks and 4 half-desks, each called a step (gradus).

There were (avoiding fractions) 8 books on each half-desk, and 15 on
each complete desk; so that by comparing the plan (fig. 50) and elevation
of a desk (fig. 51) with the views of the library at Zutphen, a good
idea of a college library in the fifteenth century can be obtained.

Before I leave the lectern-system, I will describe two eccentric specimens
of it.

The
first is still to be seen at Trinity Hall, Cambridge; the second
once existed at the University of Leyden.

The library of Trinity Hall is thoroughly medieval in plan, being a long narrow room on the first floor
of the north side of the second court, 65 feet long by 20 feet wide,
with eight equidistant windows in each side-wall, and a window of
four lights in the western gable.

It was built about 1600, but the fittings are even later, having
been added between 1626 and 1645 during the mastership of Thomas
Eden, LL.D. They are therefore a deliberate return to ancient forms
at a time when a different type had been adopted elsewhere.

There are five desks and six seats on each side of the room, placed,
as usual, at right angles to the side-walls, in the inter spaces of
the windows, and in front of the windows, respectively.

Their arrangement, and the details of their construction, will be
understood from the general view (fig. 65), and from the elevation
(fig. 66).

These lecterns are of oak, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 7 feet high,
measured to the top of the ornamental finial.

There is a sloping desk at the top, beneath which is a single shelf (fig.
66, A). The bar for the chains passes under the desk, through the two
vertical ends of the case.

At the end farthest from the wall, the hasp of the lock is hinged to the
bar and secured by two keys (fig. 67). Beneath the shelf there is at either end a
slip of wood (fig. 66, B), which indicates that there was once a
moveable desk which could be pulled out when required.

The reader could therefore consult his convenience, and work either sitting
or standing (fig. 65). For both these positions the heights are very
suitable, and at the bottom of the case was a plinth (fig. 66, C),
on which he could set his feet.

The seats between each pair of desks were of course put up at the
same time as the desks themselves. They shew an advance in comfort,
being divided into two, so as to allow support to the reader's back.

Similar desks occur in a beautiful miniature (fig. 68) from a manuscript
(now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge[330]) written in France about
1480. They appear to be solid--possibly fitted with cupboards for books under
the sloping portion.

No seats are shewn, and, as a reader is standing between them
consulting a book, it may be concluded that they could only be used by
students in that position.

Lastly, I reproduce (fig. 69) a print by Jan Cornelis Woudanus, shewing
the library of the University of Leyden in 1610[331].

The bookcases were evidently contrived with the view of getting the largest
number possible into the room.

Each contained a single row of books, chained to a bar in front of the
shelf; and, also for the purpose of saving the space usually occupied
by a seat, readers were obliged to consult them standing.

There are eleven bookcases on each side of the room, each containing from
40 to 48 volumes. At the end of the room are two cupboards, probably
for manuscripts; and to the right of the spectator is a third press,
marked Legatum Josephi Scaligeri. He died in January, 1609.

Further, as an illustration of the usual appliances for study found in libraries
at this period, and often mentioned in catalogues and account-books,
I would draw attention to the globes and maps.

I present these bookcases at this point of my researches with some diffidence, for
they can hardly be said to represent the lectern-system. On the other hand,
they do not exactly represent any other; and I therefore submit that they
may be looked at here, as transitional specimens, bridging over the
interval between the desks we have lately been considering, and those
which we shall have to consider in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[258] The Statutes of the Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge bearing on
the care of books have been thoroughly analysed by Professor Willis
in his essay on "The Library," Arch. Hist. III. pp. 387-471, which I edited
and completed. I have therefore not thought it necessary to acknowledge each
quotation separately, but I wish it to be understood that this section
of my present book is to a great extent borrowed from him.

[259] Wood, History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford, ed.
Gutch, 4to.

Oxford, 1796, Vol. II. Part 2, p. 910.

[260] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. 1. Statutes of Merton College, Cap.
2, p. 24.

[261] Sketch of the Life of Walter de Merton, by Edmund [Hobhouse],
Bishop of Nelson, New Zealand, 8vo.

Oxford, 1859,
p. 39.

[262] Annals of University College, by Wm.

Smith, 8vo. 1728, pp. 37-39.
I have compared Mr Smith's version with the Statute as printed by Anstey,
Munimenta Academica, I. 58, 59, and have made a few corrections.

[263] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. I.
Statutes of Oriel College, p. 14.

[264] Ibid. p. 22.

[265] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 38. De omnibus libris Domus,
Munimentis, et Chartis custodiendis.

[266] Ibid.
p. 17. De Duobus Decanis et eorum officio.

[267] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 44. Statutum de libris Collegii.

[268] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 432. De libris Collegii.

[269] The words are "in libraria communi ... ad sociorum communem usum
continue remanere."
 Enough remains of the cloister and the domestic
buildings for us to bring back to life the picture of the old monastic days, when the good
Friars worked and prayed there, with the sunlight falling on them through the delicate network
of the windows.

Holycross Abbey, near Thurles in Tipperary, was another of the Cistercian foundations, its
charter, dating from 1182, being still in existence. Its church is cruciform; the nave is separated
from the north aisle by round arches, and from the south aisle by pointed arches, which gives
it a singular and unusual beauty. It is probable that there was originally a row of equidistant
windows in the east and west walls, one to each bay on each side; but of these, if they ever existed,
no trace remains. There must also have been a window at the north end, and probably one at the
south end also. The present windows are plainly modern.

The room is known to have suffered from a fire, which tradition assigns
to 1609; and probably the original windows were changed during the
repairs rendered necessary at that time.

It is not easy to decide how this library was approached. It has been suggested
that the stone newel stair at the north-west corner of the Chapter-House
was used for this purpose; but, if that be the case, how are we to explain
the words in the above order "the Stair Case thereto removed"; and
an item which occurs in the Cathedral Accounts for 1789, "taking down
the old stairs, strings, and banisters, 14s."?

It appeared to me, when examining the building, that there had been originally a door on the east
side, now replaced by a window, as shewn on the plan (fig. 38). Possibly the staircase destroyed
in 1789 led to this door, which was conveniently situated in the
centre of a bay.

The staircase built in 1789 is the one still existing at the north-east
corner of the old library (fig. 40, A).

At Salisbury Bishop Osmund (1078-99) is stated to have "got together a quantity
of books, for he himself did not disdain either to write books or
to bind them after they had been written"[246]; but the library, as
elsewhere, was a work of the fifteenth century.

The foundation is very clearly recorded in an act of the Chapter, dated
15 January, 1444-45. The members present decide that as it is desirable,
"for divers reasons, to have certain schools suitable for lectures, together
with a library for the safe keeping of books and the convenience of
those who wish to study therein--which library up to the present time
they have been without--such schools and library shall be built as
soon as possible over one side of the cloister of the church, at
the cost of William [Ayscough] now Bishop of Salisbury, the Dean,
and the Canons of the aforesaid church[247]."

Accordingly, a building was erected, extending over the whole length
of the east cloister, conveniently approached by the staircase at the south-west
corner of the south transept, which originally led only to the roof.
This library was curtailed to its present dimensions, and otherwise
altered, in consequence of a Chapter Order dated 25 November, 1758,
part of which I proceed to quote:

That the southern part of the
library be taken down as far as the partitions within which the manuscripts
are placed, the whole being found much too heavy to be properly supported
by the Cloysters, which were never designed originally to bear so
great a weight.

That the roof of the northern part of the library (where the Theological lecture
antiently used to be given by the Chancellor of the Church) be taken
down; the walls lowered, and a new and lighter roof be placed in
its room; and that the same be fitted up in a neat and convenient
manner for the reception of the present books and any others which
shall hereafter be added to them.

The appearance of the library, as the execution of the above order left
it, will be understood from the view (fig. 41), taken from the roof
of an adjoining alley of the cloister. Internally the room is 66
feet long, 20 feet wide, and 12 ft. 9 in. high.

It has a flat plaster ceiling, part of the "new and lighter roof" imposed
on the lowered walls in 1758. The fittings are wholly modern.

The library attached to S. Paul's Cathedral, London, by which I mean
the medieval cathedral commonly called Old S. Paul's, was in a similar
position.

Its history is succinctly recorded by Dugdale. After describing the
cemetery called Pardon Church Hawgh, with the cloister that surrounded
it, he proceeds:

The Library.

Over the East quadrant of the before mentioned Cloyster, was a fair Library
built, at the costs of Walter Shiryngton, Chancelour of the Duchy
of Lancaster in King Henry the 6th's time: But in the year MDXLIX.

10.

Apr. both Chapell, Cloyster, and Monuments, excepting onely that side where the Library was, were
pulled down to the ground, by the appointment of Edward Duke of Somerset,
then Lord Protector to King Edward 6. and the materialls carried into
the Strand, towards the building of that stately fabrick called Somerset-House,
which he then erected; the ground where they stood being afterwards
converted into a Garden, for the Pettie Canons[248].

Nothing is known of the dimensions or arrangement of the above room;
but, as it was over a cloister, it must have been long and narrow,
like that which still exists in a similar position at Wells Cathedral,
which I will briefly mention next.

The Chapter Library at Wells Cathedral occupies the south end of a long, narrow room over the east
pane of the cloister, approached by a spiral staircase from the south transept. This room is about
162 feet long by 12 feet wide; the portion assigned to the library is about 106 feet long (fig. 42).
The roof was originally divided into 13 spaces by oak principals,
very slightly arched, resting on stone corbels.

There were two windows on each side to each space. In the part fitted
up as a library the principals have been plastered over to imitate stone,
and the joists between them concealed by a ceiling. There is a tradition
that this room was fitted up as a library in 1472.

The present fittings, which I shall have occasion to mention in a subsequent chapter, were put up when
the library was refitted and stocked with books after the Restoration[249].

These
four examples--at Lincoln, Salisbury, S. Paul's, and Wells--are typical
of Cathedral libraries built over a cloister.

I will next notice some that were detached.

The library of Lichfield Cathedral[250] stood on the north side of
the cathedral, west of the north door, at some little distance from
the church (fig. 43).

It was begun in 1489, when Thomas Heywood, dean, "gave £40 towards
building a library of brick," and completed in 1493.

It was about 60 feet long by 15 feet wide, approached by a flight of
stairs. As the Chapter Order (9 December, 1757) which authorised
its destruction speaks of the "Library, Chapter Clerk's House, and
Cloisters," I suspect that it stood on a colonnade, after the manner
of the beautiful structure at Noyon, a cathedral town in eastern France,
at no great distance from Amiens.

This library--which I have carefully examined on two occasions--was built in pursuance of the following
Order of the Chapter, 16 November, 1506.

Le 16. iour de Nouembre audit an, l'affaire de la Librairie se remet
sus. Le sieur Doyen offre cent francs pour cet oeuure.

Et le 20. iour de Nouembre, ouy le Maistre de Fabrique et Commissaires
à ce deputez, fut arrestée le long de l'allée qui meine de l'Eglise
à la porte Corbaut; et à cet effect sera tiré le bois à ce necessaire
de nos forests, et se fera ladite Librairie suiuant le pourtrait ou
patron exhibé au Chapitre le sixiesme iour de Mars 1506.

Le Bailly de Chapitre donne cent sols pour ce bastiment, à condition
qu'il en aura une clef[251].

This library (fig. 44) is, so far as I know, an unique specimen of
a library built wholly of wood, supported on wooden pillars with
stone bases, so that it is raised about 10 feet above the stone floor
on which they rest, probably for the sake of dryness.

There is a legend that a market used to be held there; but at present
the spaces between the pillars have been filled in on the south side.

The one here represented (fig. 45) stands on the north side, in a small
yard between the library and the cathedral.

The site selected for the building is on the south side of the choir
of the cathedral, with its longest axis north and south.

It measures 72 feet in length by 17 feet in width between walls, but
was originally longer, a piece having been cut off at the south end, where
the entrance now is, and where the library is now terminated by a
stone wall of classical character.

Tradition
places the entrance at the opposite end, by means of an external
staircase; an arrangement which would have been more convenient for
the members of the Chapter, as they could have approached it through
their vestry, which is on the south side of the choir.

There are now nine windows on the east side--originally there were
at least ten; but none on the west side, and it is doubtful if there
ever were any, as they would be rendered useless by the proximity
of other structures.

The fittings are modern and without interest.

At Bayeux also the Chapter-library is a detached building--of stone, in
two floors, about 40 feet long by 26 feet wide, but I have not been
able to discover the date at which it was built; and at York a detached
library was built 1421-22 at the south-west corner of the south transept.

This building, in two floors, the upper of which appears to have held
the books, is still in existence.

The Cathedral library at Troyes, built by Bishop Louis Raguier between
1477 and 1479, to replace an older structure, was in an unusual position,
and arranged in an unusual manner.

It abutted against the south-east angle of the south transept, from which
it could be entered.

It was nearly square, being 30 feet long by 24 feet broad; and the
vault was supported on a central pillar, from which radiated the
six desks which contained the books (fig. 46).

It was called La Theologale, because lectures on theology were given
in it, as in the library at Salisbury.

The desks were taken down in 1706, and the whole structure swept away in 1841-42, by the Departmental Architect,
in the course of "a thorough restoration[252]."

At this point
I cannot refrain from mentioning a somewhat anomalous library-foundation
at Worcester, due to the zeal of Bishop Carpenter (1444-76), though
both structure and foundation have been long since swept away[253].
In 1464 he built and endowed a library in connexion with the charnel-house
or chapel of S. Thomas, martyr, a detached building on the north side
of the cathedral.

The deed in which this foundation is recorded contains so many interesting particulars that
I will state briefly the most important points insisted upon[254].

The
Bishop begins by stating that by ancient arrangement the sacrist
of the cathedral, assisted by a chaplain, is bound to celebrate mass
daily in the charnel-house or chapel aforesaid, to keep it in repair,
and to supply it with ornaments and vestments. For this purpose an annual
endowment of 15 marks has been provided.

He then describes his own foundation.

In accordance with the intention of his predecessors, and actuated by a desire to increase the knowledge of
our holy faith, he has built a library in the aforesaid charnel-house, and caused certain books
to be chained therein.

Further, lest these volumes should be left uncared for, and so be damaged or abstracted, he has caused
a dwelling-house for a master or keeper of the said books to be erected
at the end of the said library; and he has conferred on the said
keeper a new stipend, in addition to the old stipend of 15 marks.

This keeper must be a graduate in theology, and a good preacher. He is
to live in the said chantry, and say mass daily in the chapel thereof.
He is to take care of all the books in the library, which he is to
open on every week-day for two hours before None, and for two hours
after None, to all who wish to enter for the purpose of study.

He is to explain hard and doubtful passages of scripture when asked
to do so, and once in every week to deliver a public lecture in the
library. Moreover on Holy Thursday he is to preach in the cathedral,
or at the cross in the burial-ground.

Further, in order to prevent any book being alienated, or carried away, or stolen
from the library, a tripartite list of all the books is to be made,
wherein the true value of each is to be set down.

One of these lists is to be retained by the Bishop, another by the sacrist,
and a third by the keeper. Whenever a book is bequeathed or given to
the library it is to be at once set down in this list together with its
true value.

On
the Friday after the feast of Relics (27 January) in each year, the sacrist and the keeper are carefully
to compare the books with the list; and should any book have disappeared from the library through
the carelessness of the keeper, he is to replace it or the value
of it within one month, under a penalty of forty shillings, whereof
twenty shillings is to be paid to the Bishop, and twenty shillings
to the sacrist.

When the aforesaid month has fully expired, the sacrist is to set
apart out of his own salary a sum sufficient to pay the above fine, and
to purchase and chain in the library as soon as possible another book
of the same value and material.

The keeper is to receive from the sacrist an annual salary of ten
pounds, and four yards of woollen cloth to make him a gown and hood.

The sacrist is to keep the chapel, library, books, and chains, together
with the house built for the use of the keeper, in good repair; and he is,
moreover, to find and maintain the vestments and lights required for
the chapel. All these duties he is to swear on the Holy Gospels
that he will faithfully perform.

My enumeration of Cathedral libraries would be sadly incomplete if
I did not say a few words about the splendid structure which is attached
to the Cathedral of Rouen[255].

The Chapter possessed a respectable collection of books at so early
a date as 1120; this grew, and, 29 July, 1424, it was decided to build
"a study or library (quoddam studium seu vnam librariam)," which
was completed in 1428.

Fifty years afterwards--in 1477--it was decided that the library should be extended. The first thought
of the Chapter was that it should be built of wood, and the purchase of good stout timber (bona et grossa
ligna) is ordered.

This plan, however, was evidently abandoned almost as soon as it was
formed, for two years afterwards (20 April 1479) "the library lately erected"
is mentioned. These words can only refer to the existing structure
which is built wholly of stone. A week later (28 April) William Pontis,
master-mason, was asked to prepare a design for a staircase up to the
library. This he supplied on the following day. In June of the same
year the Chapter had a serious difference of opinion with him on
the ground that he had altered the design and exceeded the estimate.

They came, however, to the wise conclusion that he should go on with the
work and be requested to finish it with all dispatch.

In the following spring (20 March 1480) it was decided to prolong
the library as far as the street; and in 1481 (18 September) to build
the beautiful stone gate surmounted by a screen in open-work through
which the court is now entered.

This was completed by the end of 1482. The whole structure had therefore
occupied about five years in building.

The library, together with a building of older date next to the Cathedral
which serves as a sort of vestibule to it, occupies the west side of what
is still called, from the booksellers' shops which used to stand
there, La Cour des Libraires.

The whole building measures 105 ft. in length, by 25 ft. in breadth. The library
proper is lighted by six windows in the east wall, and by two windows
in the north wall.

The masonry of the wall under these windows and the two lancets by
which it is pierced indicate that advantage had been taken of an earlier
building to form the substructure of the library.

The west wall must always have been blank. Access to the library was
obtained directly from the transept by means of the beautiful stone
staircase in two flights which Pontis built in 1479. This staircase leads
up to a door marked BIBLIOTHECA which opens into the vestibule above
mentioned.

In 1788 a room was built over the library to contain the archives of the church, and the staircase was
then ingeniously prolonged so as to reach the new second-floor.

Unfortunately the minutes of the Chapter tell us nothing about the original
fittings of this room[256]. In 1718 the books were kept in cupboards
protected by wire-work, over which were the portraits of benefactors
to the library[257].

At present the archives have disappeared; the few books that remain have replaced them in the upper
storey, and the library is used as a second vestry.

The illustration (fig. 47) shews the interior of the Cour des Libraires,
with the beautiful gate of entrance from the street.

The library occupies the first floor. Beneath are the arches under which
the shops used to be arranged; and above is the library of 1788.

FOOTNOTES:

[208] Catalogi Bibliothecarum antiqui; ed. G. Bekker, 8vo. 1885, pp. 24-28.

[209]
Ibid., pp. 43-53.

[210] Ibid., pp. 64-73.

[211] Ibid. p. 82-120.

[212] Catalogi Veteres Librorum Eccl. Cath. Dunelm., ed. Surtees Soc. 1838,
pp. 1-10.

[213] See a letter by Dr M. R. James in The Guardian, 18 May, 1898.

This catalogue is dated Easter, 1395.

[215] Ibid. pp. 10-34.

This catalogue
is dated 1391.

[216] Ibid. pp. 34-38. Of the same date.

[217] Ibid. pp. 80, 81. These volumes are recorded in the first of
the above catalogues.

[218] Ibid. pp. 81-84. The date is 1395. For a description of the
Spendment see Rites of Durham, ut supra, p. 71.

[219] Printed in Catalogue général des manuscrits des Bibliothèques
Publiques de France, V. 339-452.

[220] Inventarium librorum monasterii Cistercii, Cabilonensis diocesis,
factum per nos, fratrem Johannem, abbatem eiusdem loci, anno Domini
millesimo CCCC octuagesimo, postquam per duos annos continuos labore
duorum et sepius trium ligatorum eosdem libros aptari, ligari, et
cooperiri, cum magnis sumptibus et expensis fecimus.

[221] Et primo librorum existencium in libraria dormitorii, quam ut est disposuimus,
cum locus ipse prius diu fuisset inutilis et dudum arti sutorie et vestiario
serviebat, sicut per aliquas annexas armariorumque dispositiones
apparebat, sed a II^o annis vel circa nichil aut parum ibi fuerat.

[222] Dictionnaire raisonné de l'Architecture, I. 271.

He does not give the date, but, when I examined the original in the
Bibliothèque Nationale, I found it plainly dated 1674.

It is a most valuable record, as it shews the monastic buildings,
which were greatly altered at the beginning of the last century, in
their primitive state.

[223] With this use of the word linea may be compared the word rayon,
now usually used in France for a shelf, especially a book-shelf.

[224] Godwin, De Præsulibus Angliæ, ed. Richardson, I.
126

.
 The General Assembly outlined a system of parliamentary representation in which the
Lords and Commons were to form a single House, the latter, two hundred and twenty-six in number,
representing all the important cities and towns. A supreme Cabinet was to be formed, composed
of six members for each of the four provinces, twenty-four in all, who might be lords spiritual
or temporal, or commoners, according to the choice of the Parliament. This Cabinet, thus selected
from the whole Parliament, was the responsible executive of the country; and under the Supreme
Council a series of Provincial Councils and County Councils were to be formed along the same lines.

This plan was adopted at a general meeting of all the influential forces of the country, which
assembled in May at Kilkenny, where many Parliaments had sat during the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries. Writs were issued for elections under the new Constitution, and the date of the
first assembly of the new Parliament was fixed for October. The new national body enjoyed abundant
revenues, and no small state marked its deliberations in Kilkenny. We read of an endless series
of illuminations, receptions, banquets and balls,--the whole of the Norman nobility of Leinster
lavishing their great wealth in magnificent display. The Supreme Council journeyed in state
from Kilkenny to Wexford, from Wexford to Waterford, from Waterford to Limerick and Galway,
surrounded by hundreds of horsemen with drawn swords, and accompanied by an army of officials.
We hear of "civil and military representations of comedies and stage plays, feasts and banquets,
and palate-enticing dishes."

The General Assembly, duly elected, finally met on October 23, 1642, at Kilkenny. On the same
day was fought the battle of Edgehill, between the king of England and the forces of the English
Parliament. This battle was the signal for division of counsels in the new Assembly. The Norman
lords of Leinster, who stood on the ground of feudalism, and lived under the shadow of royal
authority, were strongly drawn to take the side of the king against the English Parliament,
and overtures of negotiation were made, which came near gaining a recognition and legalization
of the General Assembly by the English Crown.

While the leaders at Kilkenny were being drawn towards the royalists of England, Owen Roe O'Neill
was successfully holding Ulster against the Puritan forces under Monroe and Leslie, with their
headquarters at Carrickfergus. Thus matters went on till the autumn of 1643, when we find him
inflicting a serious defeat on the English army under Monk and Moore at Portlester in Meath,
in which Moore was killed and his forces driven back within the walls of Drogheda.

The General Assembly continued to exercise sovreign authority at Kilkenny, collecting revenues,
maintaining courts of justice in the provinces, and keeping several armies in the field, most
effective of which was undoubtedly that of Owen Roe O'Neill. We find matters still in this
condition three years later, in May, 1646, when Monroe and the Scottish forces prepared to
inaugurate an offensive campaign from their base at Carrickfergus. General Robert Monroe had
about seven thousand men at Carrickfergus; his brother George had five hundred at Coleraine;
while there was a Scottish army at Derry, numbering about two thousand men. It was decided
to converge these three forces on Clones, in Monaghan, and thence to proceed southwards against
the government of the General Assembly, then centered at Limerick. Clones was sixty miles from
Derry, and rather more from Coleraine and Carrickfergus, the two other points of departure.

Owen Roe O'Neill was then at Cavan, fourteen miles south of Clones, with five thousand foot
and five hundred horse, all "good, hopeful men," to use his own words. General Robert Monroe,
starting from Carrickfergus, and marching by Lisburn and Armagh, expected to reach Glasslough,
some sixteen miles from Clones, on June 5th. By a forced march from Cavan, Owen Roe O'Neill
reached Glasslough a day earlier, and marching along the northern Blackwater, pitched his camp
on the north bank of the river. Here he was directly in the line between the two Monroes, who
could only join their forces after dislodging him; and Robert Monroe, who by that time had
reached Armagh, saw that it would be necessary to give battle without delay if the much smaller
forces from the north were not to be cut off.

Robert Monroe began a movement northwards towards Owen Roe's position at dawn on June 5th,
and presently reached the Blackwater, to find himself face to face with Owen Roe's army across
the river. The two forces kept parallel with each other for some time, till Robert Monroe finally
forded the Blackwater at Caledon, Owen Roe then retiring in the direction of the current, which
here flows north. Owen Roe, in his movement of withdrawal, brought his army through a narrow
pass, which he left in charge of one of his best infantry regiments, with orders to hold it
only so long as the enemy could be safely harassed, meanwhile carrying his main body back to
the hill of Knocknacloy, the position he had chosen from the first for the battle, and to gain
which he had up to this time been manoeuvering.

At Knocknacloy he had the center of his army protected by the hill, the right by a marsh, and
the left by the river, so that, a flanking movement on Monroe's part being impossible, the
Scottish general was forced to make a frontal attack. Under cover of the rearguard action at
the pass, which caused both delay and confusion to Monroe's army, Owen Roe formed his men in
order of battle. His first line was of four columns, with considerable spaces between them;
his cavalry was on the right and left wings, behind this first line; while three columns more
were drawn up some distance farther back, behind the openings in the front line, and forming
the reserve. We should remember that not only was Owen Roe's army outnumbered by Monroe's,
but also that Owen Roe had no artillery, while Monroe was well supplied with guns.

Meanwhile Monroe's army came into touch with Owen Roe's force, and the Scottish general opened
fire with guns and muskets, to which the muskets of Owen Roe as vigorously replied. The Scottish
artillery was planted on a hillock a quarter-mile from Owen Roe's center, and under cover of
its fire an infantry charge was attempted, which was brilliantly repulsed by the pikemen of
Owen Roe's army. A second attack was made by the Scottish cavalry, who tried to ford the river,
and thus turn the left flank of the Irish army, but they were met and routed by the Irish horse. The general
appearance of the room will be understood from the view of the north aisle reduced from a photograph
(fig. 53)[314].

.]

There are eighteen bookcases, or desks; namely,
ten on the south side of the room, and eight on the north side (fig.
52).

The material is oak; the workmanship very rude and rough.

I will describe those on the south side first.
Each is 9 feet long by 5 feet 5¼ inches high, measured from the floor
to the top of the finial on the end; and the lower edge of the desk
on which the books lie is 2 feet 6¼ inches above the floor; but the
general plan, and the relative dimensions of the different parts,
will be best understood from the photograph of a single desk at which
a reader is seated (fig. 54), and from the elevation of one of the
ends (fig. 55, A), beside which I have placed the elevation of one
of the desks at Queens' College (B).

The photograph shews that in fixing the height of the desk above
the ground the convenience of readers has been carefully considered.

The iron bar that carries the chains is locked into the ornamental
upright, passes through a staple in the middle of the desk, and into
the upright at the opposite end, which is left plain.

This bar is half an inch in diameter, and one inch above the level of
the top of the desk. It is prevented from bending by passing through
a staple fixed in the centre of the desk. A piece of ornamental iron-work
is fixed to the upright. It is made to represent a lock, but is in
reality a mere plate of metal, and the tongue, which looks as though
it were intended to move, is only an ornament, and is pierced by the
keyhole. The lock is sunk in the thickness of the wood, behind this
plate, and the bar, which terminates in a knob, is provided with
two nicks, into which the bolts of the lock are shot when the key
is turned (fig. 56).

Between each pair of desks there is a seat for the reader.

The desks on the north side of the room differ slightly from those on the south side. They are rather
larger, the ends are of a different shape and devoid of ornament
(fig. 57), and there is a wider interval between the bar and the top
of the desk.

It seems to me probable that the more highly ornamented desks are
those which were put in when the room was first fitted up, and that
the others were added from time to time as new books had to be accommodated.

The

books are attached to the desk by the following process. A chain was taken about 12 inches long, more
or less, consisting of long narrow links of hammered iron. These links
exactly resemble, both in shape and size, those of a chain which
may still be seen in the library of the Grammar School at Guildford,
Surrey[316].

This chain, of which a piece is here figured (fig. 58), was probably made in 1586, or only 23 years after
the building of the library at Zutphen. It terminates, like those at
Zutphen (fig. 59), in a swivel (to prevent entanglement), attached
to the ring which is strung upon the bar.

The attachment of the chain to the book was effected by means of
a piece of metal bent round so as to form a loop through which the
last link of the chain was passed.

The ends of the loop, flattened out, were attached by nail or rivet
to the edge of the stout wooden board which formed the side of the
book.

This mode of attachment will be best seen in the volume which I figure next (fig. 60)--a collection
of sermons printed at Nuremberg in 1487. It is believed to have once belonged to a Dominican House
at Bamberg, in the library of which it was chained[317].

The iron loop in this specimen (fig. 60) is fastened to what I call
the right-hand board of the book; by which I mean the board which
is to the right hand of a reader when the book lies open before him;
but the selection of the right-hand or the left-hand board depended
on individual taste.

Further the mode of attachment is never the same in two examples. The iron and rivets are often clumsy,
and do considerable damage to the leaves, by forcing them out of
shape and staining them with rust.

In this method of chaining no provision is made for removing any book
from the desk when not wanted, and placing it on a shelf beneath the
desk, as was done in some Italian modifications of the system.

Each volume must lie on the desk, attached by its chain, like a Bible on
a church-lectern. The smallest number of volumes on any desk at Zutphen
is six; the largest, eleven; the total, 316.

Most
of those on the south side of the room were printed during the first
half of the sixteenth century; those on the north side are much later,
some as late as 1630. I did not see any manuscripts.

If we now reconsider the indications preserved at Queens' College,
it will, I feel sure, be recognised that the desks at Zutphen explain
them, and enable us to realise the aspect of what I conceive to have
been the most ancient method of fitting up a collegiate or a monastic
library.

When
such a room first became necessary in a monastery, and furniture suitable
for it was debated, a lectern would surely suggest itself, as being
used in the numerous daily services, and proving itself singularly
convenient for the support of books while they were being read.

Another example of such fittings was once to be seen at Pembroke College, Cambridge, in the library
above the hall (fig. 48).

In Dr Matthew Wren's account of that library already quoted there is
a passage which may be translated as follows:

I would have you know that in the year 1617 the Library was completely
altered and made to assume an entirely new appearance.

This alteration was rendered necessary by the serious damage which,
to our great sorrow, we found the books had suffered--a damage which
was increasing daily--partly from the sloping form of the desks, partly
from the inconvenient weight of the chains (tum ex declivi pluteorum
fabricâ, tum ex ineptâ mole catenarum)[318].

These desks were copied at S. John's College in the same University.

A contract dated 20 June, 1516, provides that the contractor

shall make all the Desks in the Library wythin the said college of
good and substanciall and abyll Tymber of Oke mete and convenient
for the same Library, aftir and accordyng to the Library within ...
Pembroke Hall[319].

The Library here referred to was on the first floor to the south of
the Great Gate of the college.

It is now divided into chambers, but its original extent can be readily
made out by its range of equidistant windows.

The wall-spaces dividing these are 28½ inches wide, practically the
same as those at Queens' College.

At Peterhouse also a similar arrangement seems to have subsisted when
the catalogue of 1418 was made.

The very first book, a Bible, is said to stand "in the sixth lectern
on the west side (lectrino 6^o ex parte occidentali)." The word lectrinum
is unusual, but it emphasizes the form of the desk more clearly than any other.

A
splendid example of this type of case is to be seen at Lincoln (fig.
61), where three "stalls" or desks, belonging to the old library already
described[320], are still preserved.

Each is about 7 ft. long, 3 ft. broad, and 4 ft. 4 in. high to the top of
the sloping portion.

At each end, and in the centre, is a massive molded standard, 7 ft. 2 in. high, terminating in a boldly
carved finial; and these three standards are connected together by
a band of open-work, of a design similar to that of the cornice of
the library.

Half way between this band and the top of the desk is the bar to carry the chains,
now of wood, but formerly of course of iron; and below this again
is a shelf 18 in. wide, projecting slightly beyond the sloping portion
of the desk.

The edge of the desk is protected by a ledge, as usual, and under it
is a second shelf extending the whole width of the piece of furniture.
What was the use of these shelves? As the bar is above the desk, not below
it, the books must have reposed, as a general rule, upon the desk, instead
of being laid on their sides on the shelf below it when not wanted
by a reader.

The chains
would not have been long enough to allow of any other arrangement.
I think, therefore, that the lower shelf must have been a constructional
contrivance, to assist in keeping the standards in their places.

The narrow upper shelf, on the other hand, was probably intended for
the convenience of the reader. He might place on it, temporarily,
any book that he was not using, and which got in his way while he was
reading one of those beside it; or, if he was making extracts, he
might set his inkstand upon it.

These desks evidently stood in the old library against the shafts of the roof, for one of the ends has been
hollowed out in each to receive the shaft; and the finial, which
is left plain on that side, is bent over slightly, to admit it under
the brace (fig. 39).

As I have now described three varieties of the lectern-system, I will place before my readers,
side by side, elevations of each of the three (fig. 62) drawn to the same scale. It will be
seen that they resemble each other exactly in essentials.

The differences observable are accidental, and may be referred to individual taste.

That this form of desk was recognised on the continent as typical of library-fittings is proved by
its appearance in a French translation of the first book of the Consolation
of Philosophy of Boethius, which I had the good fortune to find in
the British Museum[321] (fig. 63).

This manuscript was written in Flanders towards the end of the
fifteenth century. In such a work the library shewn requires what I may
term generalised fittings. An eccentric peculiarity would have been
quite inadmissible.

In the Stadtbibliothek of Nuremberg some of the oldest works on jurisprudence
still preserve their chains.

Each has a short chain about 12 in. long fixed on the upper edge
of the left-hand board. The title is written on the middle of the
upper edge of the right-hand board.

It is obvious that these volumes must have lain on a desk with their
titles uppermost[322].

It is probable that similar fittings were used in the library of the
Sorbonne, Paris, which was first established in 1289, with books chained
for the common convenience of the Fellows (in communem sociorum utilitatem)[323].

This library was divided into two separate collections, which formed, so to speak,
two distinct libraries. The first, called the great library, or the common
library, contained the books most frequently studied.

They were chained, and could only be taken out under the most exceptional
circumstances. A statute, dated 1321, the provisions of which recall the
collegiate statutes summarised above, directed that the best book the
society possessed on each subject should be thus chained. The second
division of the library, called the small library, contained duplicates,
books rarely consulted, and generally all those of which the loan
was authorised under certain conditions[324].

The following description of this library has been given by Claude Héméré
(Librarian 1638-43) in his MS. history. This I proceed to translate:

The old library was contained under one roof.

It was firmly and solidly built, and was 120 feet long by 36 feet broad....
Each side was pierced with 19 windows of equal size, that plenty
of daylight both from the east and the west (for this was the direction
of the room) might fall upon the desks, and fill the whole length
and breadth of the library.

There were 28 desks, marked with the letters of the alphabet, five feet high, and so arranged that
they were separated by a moderate interval.

They were loaded with books, all of which were chained, that no sacrilegious
hand might [carry them off. These chains were attached to the right-hand
board of every book] so that they might be readily thrown aside, and
reading not be interfered with. Moreover the volumes could be opened
and shut without difficulty.

A reader who sat down in the space between two desks, as they rose to a
height of five feet as I said above, neither saw nor disturbed any
one else who might be reading or writing in another place by talking
or by any other interruption, unless the other student wished it,
or paid attention to any question that might be put to him.

It was required, by the ancient rules of the library, that reading,
writing, and handling of books should go forward in complete silence[325].

This

description indicates desks similar to those of Zutphen.

Even the height is the same.

A library which vividly recalls the above account, with 19 windows
on one side and probably the same number on the other, was built in
1506 for the Collège de Navarre, Paris, now the École Polytechnique[326].

My illustration (fig. 64) is from a photograph taken shortly before its
destruction in 1867.

I have calculated that it was about 108 ft. long by 30 ft. wide.

The library of the Collège d'Autun, Paris, was similarly arranged.

An inventory taken 29 July, 1462, records: "dix bancs doubles, à se seoir d'une part
et d'autre, et ung poupitre; esquelz bancs et poupitre out esté trouvez
enchaisnez les livres qui s'ensuyvent, qui sont intitulez sur la couverture
d'iceulx[327]."

The catalogue enumerates
174 volumes, or rather more than 17 for each "banc" or lectern. The expression bancs doubles is interesting,
as it seems to imply that there were at that time libraries in which bancs simples were used;
that is to say, lecterns with only one sloping surface instead of two.

A study of the catalogue drawn up in 1513 for the Augustinian House of S. Victor, Paris, by Claude de Grandrue,
one of the monks, shews that the same system must have been in use there. Further, his catalogue is an excellent
specimen of the pains taken in a large monastery to describe the
books accurately, and to provide ready access to them.

A brief prefatory note informs us that the desks are arranged in
three rows, and marked with a triple series of letters.

The first row is marked A, B, C, etc.; the second AA, BB, etc.; the third AAA, BBB, etc. To
each of these letters are appended the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and so on, to shew the position of the required
volume. For instance--to take one at random--Abælardi confessio is marked
P. 13: that is, it is the thirteenth book on the desk in the first
row marked P. When the catalogue proper--in which each manuscript
is carefully described--was finished, the author increased its usefulness
by the composition of an alphabetical index[328].

How, I shall be asked, can the form of the bookcase or desk (pulpitum)
be inferred from this catalogue?

I reply: In the first place, because there are no shelf-marks. The librarian notes the letter of the
desk, and the place of each book on it, but nothing more.

Secondly, because the number of manuscripts accommodated on each desk is so small. There are 50 desks,
and 988 manuscripts--or, an average of little more than 19 to each.

At Zutphen the average is exactly 18. This piece of evidence, however, is so important that
I will give it in detail. The following table, compiled by myself from the catalogue, gives the
letters used to mark the desks, and the number of manuscripts on each.

A
13 | AA 13 | AAA 15 B 21 | BB 16 | BBB 16 C 13 | CC 19 | CCC 17 D 18 |
DD 18 | DDD 19 E 17 | EE 21 | EEE 17 F 20 | FF 17 | FFF 29 G 18 |
GG 18 | GGG 24 H 16 | HH 17 | HHH 29 I 16 | II 23 | III 25 K 17 |
KK 21 | KKK 29 L 22 | LL 21 | LLL 23 M 21 | MM 20 | MMM 26 N 18 |
NN 20 | ---- O 14 | OO 13 | 269 P 19 | PP 23 | Q 22 | QQ 27 | R 14
| RR 26 | S 14 | SS 28 | T 21 | TT 24 | ----| ----| 334 | 385 |

These
totals give a general total of 988 manuscripts, which, divided by
50, makes the average number for each desk, as stated above, 19·76.

Further, my theory is supported by the positive evidence of a description
of this library (unfortunately without date) quoted by M. Delisle:
"Les livres estoient couchez et enchaisnez, sur de longs pupitres,
et une allée entre deux[329]."

It is obvious that the English system of placing each lectern between a pair of windows could not have been
maintained here.

At Queens' College, Cambridge, the catalogue, dated 1472, enumerates 192
volumes, divided over 10 desks and 4 half-desks, each called a step
(gradus).

There were (avoiding fractions) 8 books on each half-desk, and 15
on each complete desk; so that by comparing the plan (fig. 50) and
elevation of a desk (fig. 51) with the views of the library at Zutphen,
a good idea of a college library in the fifteenth century can be obtained.

Before

I leave the lectern-system, I will describe two eccentric specimens
of it.

The first is still to be seen at Trinity Hall, Cambridge; the second once existed at the University
of Leyden.

The library of Trinity Hall is thoroughly medieval in plan, being a long
narrow room on the first floor of the north side of the second court,
65 feet long by 20 feet wide, with eight equidistant windows in each
side-wall, and a window of four lights in the western gable. It was built
about 1600, but the fittings are even later, having been added between
1626 and 1645 during the mastership of Thomas Eden, LL.D. They are
therefore a deliberate return to ancient forms at a time when a different
type had been adopted elsewhere.

There are five desks and six seats on each side of the room, placed,
as usual, at right angles to the side-walls, in the inter spaces of
the windows, and in front of the windows, respectively.

Their arrangement, and the details of their construction, will be understood
from the general view (fig. 65), and from the elevation (fig. 66).

These
lecterns are of oak, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 7 feet high, measured
to the top of the ornamental finial.

There is a sloping desk at the top, beneath which is a single shelf (fig.
66, A).

The bar for the chains passes under the desk, through the two vertical ends of the case. At the
end farthest from the wall, the hasp of the lock is hinged to the
bar and secured by two keys (fig. 67).

Beneath the shelf there is at either end a slip of wood (fig. 66, B),
which indicates that there was once a moveable desk which could be
pulled out when required. The reader could therefore consult his
convenience, and work either sitting or standing (fig. 65). For both these
positions the heights are very suitable, and at the bottom of the
case was a plinth (fig. 66, C), on which he could set his feet.

The seats between each pair of desks were of course put up at the same
time as the desks themselves.

They shew
an advance in comfort, being divided into two, so as to allow support to the reader's back.

Similar desks occur in a beautiful miniature (fig. 68) from a manuscript
(now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge[330]) written in France
about 1480.

They appear to be solid--possibly fitted with cupboards for books under the sloping portion. No seats are shewn,
and, as a reader is standing between them consulting a book, it may
be concluded that they could only be used by students in that position.

Lastly,

I reproduce (fig. 69) a print by Jan Cornelis Woudanus, shewing the library of the University
of Leyden in 1610[331]. The bookcases were evidently contrived with the view of getting the largest number
possible into the room.

Each contained a single row of books, chained to a bar in front of the shelf; and, also for
the purpose of saving the space usually occupied by a seat, readers were obliged to consult them
standing. There are eleven bookcases on each side of the room, each containing
from 40 to 48 volumes. At the end of the room are two cupboards, probably
for manuscripts; and to the right of the spectator is a third press,
marked Legatum Josephi Scaligeri.

He died
in January, 1609. Further, as an illustration of the usual appliances
for study found in libraries at this period, and often mentioned
in catalogues and account-books, I would draw attention to the globes
and maps.

I present these bookcases at this point of my researches with some
diffidence, for they can hardly be said to represent the lectern-system.

On the other hand, they do not exactly represent any other; and I therefore
submit that they may be looked at here, as transitional specimens,
bridging over the interval between the desks we have lately been considering,
and those which we shall have to consider in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[258] The Statutes of the Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge
bearing on the care of books have been thoroughly analysed by Professor
Willis in his essay on "The Library," Arch.

Hist. III. pp. 387-471, which I edited and completed. I have therefore not thought it necessary to acknowledge each
quotation separately, but I wish it to be understood that this section of my present book is to a
great extent borrowed from him.

[259] Wood, History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford, ed.

Gutch, 4to. Oxford, 1796, Vol. II. Part 2, p. 910.

[260] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. 1. Statutes of Merton College,
Cap. 2, p. 24.

[261] Sketch of the Life of Walter de Merton, by Edmund [Hobhouse],
Bishop of Nelson, New Zealand, 8vo.

Oxford, 1859, p. 39.

[262] Annals of University College, by Wm. Smith, 8vo. 1728, pp. 37-39.

I have
compared Mr Smith's version with the Statute as printed by Anstey, Munimenta
Academica, I. 58, 59, and have made a few corrections.

[263] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. I. Statutes of Oriel College,
p. 14.

[264] Ibid. p. 22.

[265] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 38. De omnibus libris Domus,
Munimentis, et Chartis custodiendis.

[266] Ibid. p. 17. De Duobus Decanis et eorum officio.

[267] Commiss. Docts.

(Cambridge), II. 44. Statutum de libris Collegii.

[268] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 432. De libris Collegii.

[269] The words are "in libraria communi ... ad sociorum communem usum
continue remanere.

"
 A month later a messenger
came direct to Sarsfield, then with the army at Galway, from Louis XIV, promising reinforcements
under the renowned soldier Saint Ruth. This letter to a great extent revealed the double part
Tyrconnell had been playing at the French court, and did much to undermine his credit with
the better elements in the Irish army.

The French fleet finally arrived at Limerick in May, 1691, under Saint Ruth, bringing a considerable
quantity of provisions for the Irish army; but it is doubtful whether this arrival added any
real element of strength to the army. The Irish army, soon after this, was assembled at Athlone,
to defend the passage of the Shannon. Much vigorous fighting took place, but Ginkell, William's
general, finally captured that important fortress in June. The road to Galway was now open,
and Ginkell's army prepared to march on that important city, the strongest place in Connacht.
Saint Ruth prepared to resist their approach, fixing his camp at Aughrim, The Hill of the Horses,
some eighteen miles from Athlone and thirty-five from Galway. We may once more tell the story
in the words of an eye-witness:

"Aughrim was then a ruined town, and the castle was not much better, situated in a bottom on
the north side of the hill, where the Irish army encamped. The direct way from Ballinasloe
was close by the castle, but there was another way about, on the south-east side of the hill.
The rest of the ground fronting the camp was a marsh, passable only for foot. The army of Ginkell
appeared in sight of Aughrim on July 12th. The Irish army, composed of about ten thousand foot,
two thousand men-at-arms, and as many light horse, was soon drawn up by Saint Ruth in two lines;
the cavalry on both wings flanking the foot; and having placed Chevalier de Tessé on the right
wing of the horse, and Sarsfield on the left, and giving their several posts to the rest of
the chief commanders, Saint Ruth obliged himself to no certain place, but rode constantly from
one side to another to give the necessary orders where he saw occasion. Ginkell being now come
up at so near a distance that his guns and other battering engines might do execution, he ordered
them to be discharged, and as he had a vast number of them he made them play incessantly on
the Irish army, hoping by that means to force them from the hill, which was of great advantage.
But the Irish, encouraged by the presence and conduct of Saint Ruth, kept their ground and
beat the English as often as they advanced towards them. The fight continued from noon till
sunset, the Irish foot having still the better of the enemy; and Saint Ruth, observing the
advantage of his side, and that the enemy's foot were much disordered, was resolved, by advancing
with the cavalry, to make the victory complete, when an unlucky shot from one of the terrible
new engines, hitting him in the head, made an end of his life, and took away the courage of
his army. For Ginkell, observing the Irish to be in some disorder, gave a notable conjecture
that the general was either killed or wounded, whereupon he commanded his army to advance.
The Irish cavalry, discouraged by the death of Saint Ruth, and none of the general officers
coming to head them in his place, gave back, and quitted the field. The foot who were engaged
with the enemy, knowing nothing of the general's death or the retreat of the cavalry, continued
fighting till they were surrounded by the whole English army; so that the most of them were
cut off, and no quarter given but to a very few; the rest, by favor of the night then approaching,
for Saint Ruth was killed about sunset, made their escape."

To this we may add the testimony of the runaway monarch: "The Irish behaved with great spirit.
They convinced the English they had to do with men no less resolute than themselves. Never
assault was made with greater fury nor sustained with greater obstinacy. The Irish foot repulsed
the enemy several times, particularly in the center. They even looked upon the victory as certain....
The Irish lost four thousand men. The loss of the English was not much inferior."

The army of Ginkell, thus in possession of the key of Connacht, advanced upon its most important
city, arriving before Galway a few days after the battle of Aughrim. Galway, however, was full
of divided counsels, and speedily surrendered, so that Limerick alone remained. Limerick was
greatly weakened, now that Galway, and with Galway the whole of Connacht to which alone Limerick
could look for supplies, was in the hands of the enemy. The general appearance of the room will be understood
from the view of the north aisle reduced from a photograph (fig.
53)[314].

.]

There are eighteen bookcases, or desks; namely, ten
on the south side of the room, and eight on the north side (fig. 52).

The material is oak; the workmanship very rude and rough.

I will describe those on the south side first. Each
is 9 feet long by 5 feet 5¼ inches high, measured from the floor
to the top of the finial on the end; and the lower edge of the desk
on which the books lie is 2 feet 6¼ inches above the floor; but the
general plan, and the relative dimensions of the different parts,
will be best understood from the photograph of a single desk at which
a reader is seated (fig. 54), and from the elevation of one of the
ends (fig. 55, A), beside which I have placed the elevation of one
of the desks at Queens' College (B).

The photograph shews that in fixing the height of the desk above
the ground the convenience of readers has been carefully considered.

The iron bar that carries the chains is locked into the ornamental
upright, passes through a staple in the middle of the desk, and into
the upright at the opposite end, which is left plain.

This bar is half an inch in diameter, and one inch above the level of the top of the desk. It is prevented
from bending by passing through a staple fixed in the centre of the desk. A piece of ornamental
iron-work is fixed to the upright. It is made to represent a lock, but is
in reality a mere plate of metal, and the tongue, which looks as though it were
intended to move, is only an ornament, and is pierced by the keyhole. The
lock is sunk in the thickness of the wood, behind this plate, and the
bar, which terminates in a knob, is provided with two nicks, into
which the bolts of the lock are shot when the key is turned (fig. 56).

Between each pair of desks there is a seat for the reader.

The desks on the north side of the room differ slightly from those on the south side. They are rather
larger, the ends are of a different shape and devoid of ornament (fig. 57), and there is a wider
interval between the bar and the top of the desk. It seems to me probable that the more highly ornamented
desks are those which were put in when the room was first fitted up, and that the others were
added from time to time as new books had to be accommodated.

The books are attached to the desk by the following process. A chain was taken about 12 inches long,
more or less, consisting of long narrow links of hammered iron. These links exactly resemble,
both in shape and size, those of a chain which may still be seen
in the library of the Grammar School at Guildford, Surrey[316].

This chain, of which a piece is here figured (fig. 58), was probably made in 1586, or only 23 years after
the building of the library at Zutphen. It terminates, like those at Zutphen
(fig. 59), in a swivel (to prevent entanglement), attached to the ring
which is strung upon the bar.

The attachment of the chain to the book was effected by means of a piece of metal bent round so
as to form a loop through which the last link of the chain was passed. The ends of the loop, flattened
out, were attached by nail or rivet to the edge of the stout wooden
board which formed the side of the book.

This mode of attachment will be best seen in the volume which I figure
next (fig. 60)--a collection of sermons printed at Nuremberg in 1487.

It is believed to have once belonged to a Dominican House at Bamberg, in the library of which it
was chained[317].

The iron loop in this specimen (fig. 60) is fastened to what I call
the right-hand board of the book; by which I mean the board which
is to the right hand of a reader when the book lies open before him;
but the selection of the right-hand or the left-hand board depended
on individual taste.

Further the mode of attachment is never the same in two examples. The iron
and rivets are often clumsy, and do considerable damage to the leaves,
by forcing them out of shape and staining them with rust.

In this method of chaining no provision is made for removing any book from the desk when not wanted, and placing
it on a shelf beneath the desk, as was done in some Italian modifications
of the system.

Each volume must lie on the desk, attached by its chain, like a Bible
on a church-lectern.

The smallest number of volumes on any desk at Zutphen is six; the largest, eleven; the total, 316. Most
of those on the south side of the room were printed during the first
half of the sixteenth century; those on the north side are much later,
some as late as 1630.

I did not see any manuscripts.

If we now reconsider the indications preserved at Queens' College, it
will, I feel sure, be recognised that the desks at Zutphen explain
them, and enable us to realise the aspect of what I conceive to have
been the most ancient method of fitting up a collegiate or a monastic
library.

When such a room first became necessary in a monastery, and furniture
suitable for it was debated, a lectern would surely suggest itself,
as being used in the numerous daily services, and proving itself singularly
convenient for the support of books while they were being read.

Another example of such fittings was once to be seen at Pembroke College, Cambridge, in the library above
the hall (fig. 48).

In Dr
Matthew Wren's account of that library already quoted there is a passage which may be translated as follows:

I
would have you know that in the year 1617 the Library was completely altered and made to assume
an entirely new appearance. This alteration was rendered necessary
by the serious damage which, to our great sorrow, we found the books
had suffered--a damage which was increasing daily--partly from the
sloping form of the desks, partly from the inconvenient weight of
the chains (tum ex declivi pluteorum fabricâ, tum ex ineptâ mole catenarum)[318].

These

desks were copied at S. John's College in the same University.

A contract dated 20 June, 1516, provides that the contractor

shall make all the Desks in the Library wythin the said college of good
and substanciall and abyll Tymber of Oke mete and convenient for the
same Library, aftir and accordyng to the Library within ... Pembroke
Hall[319].

The Library here referred to was on the first floor to the south of the Great
Gate of the college.

It is now divided into chambers, but its original extent can be readily made
out by its range of equidistant windows.

The wall-spaces dividing these are 28½ inches wide, practically the same as those
at Queens' College.

At Peterhouse also a similar arrangement seems to have subsisted when
the catalogue of 1418 was made.

The very first book, a Bible, is said to stand "in the sixth lectern on the west side (lectrino 6^o ex parte
occidentali)." The word lectrinum is unusual, but it emphasizes the form of the desk more clearly than
any other.

A splendid example of this type of case is to be seen at Lincoln (fig. 61), where three "stalls" or desks,
belonging to the old library already described[320], are still preserved.

Each is about 7 ft. long, 3 ft. broad, and 4 ft. 4 in. high to the top of the
sloping portion. At each end, and in the centre, is a massive molded
standard, 7 ft. 2 in. high, terminating in a boldly carved finial; and
these three standards are connected together by a band of open-work,
of a design similar to that of the cornice of the library.

Half way between this band and the top of the desk is the bar to carry
the chains, now of wood, but formerly of course of iron; and below this again
is a shelf 18 in. wide, projecting slightly beyond the sloping portion
of the desk. The edge of the desk is protected by a ledge, as usual,
and under it is a second shelf extending the whole width of the piece
of furniture.

What was the use of these shelves? As the bar is above the desk, not below it, the books must have reposed,
as a general rule, upon the desk, instead of being laid on their sides on the shelf below it when
not wanted by a reader. The chains would not have been long enough to allow of any other arrangement.
I think, therefore, that the lower shelf must have been a constructional
contrivance, to assist in keeping the standards in their places.

The narrow upper shelf, on the other hand, was probably intended for the convenience of the reader.
He might place on it, temporarily, any book that he was not using,
and which got in his way while he was reading one of those beside
it; or, if he was making extracts, he might set his inkstand upon it.

These desks evidently stood in the old library against the shafts of the
roof, for one of the ends has been hollowed out in each to receive
the shaft; and the finial, which is left plain on that side, is bent
over slightly, to admit it under the brace (fig. 39).

As I have now described three varieties of the lectern-system, I will place
before my readers, side by side, elevations of each of the three
(fig. 62) drawn to the same scale.

It will be seen that they resemble each other exactly in essentials. The differences observable
are accidental, and may be referred to individual taste.

That this form of desk was recognised on the continent as typical of library-fittings
is proved by its appearance in a French translation of the first
book of the Consolation of Philosophy of Boethius, which I had the
good fortune to find in the British Museum[321] (fig. 63).

This manuscript was written in Flanders towards the end of the fifteenth
century. In such a work the library shewn requires what I may term generalised
fittings. An eccentric peculiarity would have been quite inadmissible.

In
the Stadtbibliothek of Nuremberg some of the oldest works on jurisprudence
still preserve their chains.

Each has a short chain about 12 in. long fixed on the upper edge of
the left-hand board. The title is written on the middle of the upper
edge of the right-hand board.

It is obvious that these volumes must have lain on a desk with their titles uppermost[322].

It is probable that similar fittings were used in the library of the
Sorbonne, Paris, which was first established in 1289, with books
chained for the common convenience of the Fellows (in communem sociorum
utilitatem)[323].

This library was divided into two separate collections, which formed,
so to speak, two distinct libraries. The first, called the great library,
or the common library, contained the books most frequently studied.

They were chained, and could only be taken out under the most exceptional circumstances. A statute, dated 1321,
the provisions of which recall the collegiate statutes summarised
above, directed that the best book the society possessed on each subject
should be thus chained.

The second division of the library, called the small library, contained duplicates, books rarely consulted, and generally
all those of which the loan was authorised under certain conditions[324]. The following description
of this library has been given by Claude Héméré (Librarian 1638-43)
in his MS. history.

This I proceed to translate:

The
old library was contained under one roof. It was firmly and solidly built, and
was 120 feet long by 36 feet broad.... Each side was pierced with
19 windows of equal size, that plenty of daylight both from the east
and the west (for this was the direction of the room) might fall upon
the desks, and fill the whole length and breadth of the library.

There were 28 desks, marked with the letters of the alphabet, five feet high,
and so arranged that they were separated by a moderate interval.

They were loaded with books, all of which were chained, that no sacrilegious hand might [carry
them off. These chains were attached to the right-hand board of every book] so that they might be
readily thrown aside, and reading not be interfered with.

Moreover the volumes could be opened and shut without difficulty. A reader who sat down in the space between two
desks, as they rose to a height of five feet as I said above, neither saw nor disturbed any
one else who might be reading or writing in another place by talking
or by any other interruption, unless the other student wished it,
or paid attention to any question that might be put to him.

It was required, by the ancient rules of the library, that reading, writing,
and handling of books should go forward in complete silence[325].

This description indicates desks similar to those of Zutphen.

Even the height is the same.

A library which vividly recalls the above account, with 19 windows
on one side and probably the same number on the other, was built in
1506 for the Collège de Navarre, Paris, now the École Polytechnique[326].

My illustration (fig. 64) is from a photograph taken shortly before its
destruction in 1867. I have calculated that it was about 108 ft. long
by 30 ft. wide.

The library of the Collège d'Autun, Paris, was similarly arranged.

An
inventory taken 29 July, 1462, records: "dix bancs doubles, à se
seoir d'une part et d'autre, et ung poupitre; esquelz bancs et poupitre
out esté trouvez enchaisnez les livres qui s'ensuyvent, qui sont intitulez
sur la couverture d'iceulx[327]."

The catalogue enumerates
174 volumes, or rather more than 17 for each "banc" or lectern. The expression bancs doubles is interesting,
as it seems to imply that there were at that time libraries in which
bancs simples were used; that is to say, lecterns with only one sloping
surface instead of two.

A study of the catalogue drawn up in 1513 for the Augustinian House
of S. Victor, Paris, by Claude de Grandrue, one of the monks, shews
that the same system must have been in use there.

Further, his catalogue is an excellent specimen of the pains taken in a large monastery to describe the
books accurately, and to provide ready access to them. A brief prefatory note informs us that the
desks are arranged in three rows, and marked with a triple series of letters.
The first row is marked A, B, C, etc.; the second AA, BB, etc.; the
third AAA, BBB, etc. To each of these letters are appended the numbers
1, 2, 3, 4 and so on, to shew the position of the required volume.

For
instance--to take one at random--Abælardi confessio is marked P. 13: that is, it is the thirteenth
book on the desk in the first row marked P. When the catalogue proper--in which each manuscript
is carefully described--was finished, the author increased its usefulness by the composition of an alphabetical
index[328].

How, I shall be asked, can the form of the bookcase or desk (pulpitum)
be inferred from this catalogue?

I reply:
In the first place, because there are no shelf-marks.

The librarian notes the letter of the desk, and the place of each
book on it, but nothing more.

Secondly, because the number of manuscripts accommodated on each desk is
so small. There are 50 desks, and 988 manuscripts--or, an average
of little more than 19 to each. At Zutphen the average is exactly 18.

This piece of evidence, however, is so important that I will give it in detail. The following table, compiled
by myself from the catalogue, gives the letters used to mark the
desks, and the number of manuscripts on each.

A 13 | AA 13 | AAA 15 B 21 | BB 16 | BBB 16 C 13 | CC 19 | CCC 17 D
18 | DD 18 | DDD 19 E 17 | EE 21 | EEE 17 F 20 | FF 17 | FFF 29 G
18 | GG 18 | GGG 24 H 16 | HH 17 | HHH 29 I 16 | II 23 | III 25 K
17 | KK 21 | KKK 29 L 22 | LL 21 | LLL 23 M 21 | MM 20 | MMM 26 N
18 | NN 20 | ---- O 14 | OO 13 | 269 P 19 | PP 23 | Q 22 | QQ 27 |
R 14 | RR 26 | S 14 | SS 28 | T 21 | TT 24 | ----| ----| 334 | 385
|

These totals give a general total of 988 manuscripts, which, divided
by 50, makes the average number for each desk, as stated above, 19·76.

Further, my theory is supported by the positive evidence of a description
of this library (unfortunately without date) quoted by M. Delisle: "Les
livres estoient couchez et enchaisnez, sur de longs pupitres, et
une allée entre deux[329]."

It is obvious that the English system of placing each lectern between
a pair of windows could not have been maintained here.

At Queens' College, Cambridge, the catalogue, dated 1472, enumerates 192 volumes, divided over 10 desks
and 4 half-desks, each called a step (gradus). There were (avoiding fractions)
8 books on each half-desk, and 15 on each complete desk; so that by comparing
the plan (fig. 50) and elevation of a desk (fig. 51) with the views
of the library at Zutphen, a good idea of a college library in the
fifteenth century can be obtained.

Before I leave the lectern-system, I will describe two eccentric specimens
of it.

The first is still to be seen at Trinity Hall, Cambridge; the second once existed at the University of
Leyden.

The library of Trinity Hall is thoroughly medieval in plan, being
a long narrow room on the first floor of the north side of the second
court, 65 feet long by 20 feet wide, with eight equidistant windows
in each side-wall, and a window of four lights in the western gable.

It was built about 1600, but the fittings are even later, having been added between 1626 and 1645 during
the mastership of Thomas Eden, LL.D. They are therefore a deliberate
return to ancient forms at a time when a different type had been adopted
elsewhere.

There are five desks and six seats on each side of the room, placed,
as usual, at right angles to the side-walls, in the inter spaces
of the windows, and in front of the windows, respectively.

Their arrangement, and the details of their construction, will be understood
from the general view (fig. 65), and from the elevation (fig. 66).

These lecterns are of oak, 6 feet 7 inches long, and 7 feet high,
measured to the top of the ornamental finial.

There is a sloping desk at the top, beneath which is a single shelf (fig. 66, A). The bar for the
chains passes under the desk, through the two vertical ends of the case. At the end farthest
from the wall, the hasp of the lock is hinged to the bar and secured
by two keys (fig. 67). Beneath the shelf there is at either end a
slip of wood (fig. 66, B), which indicates that there was once a moveable
desk which could be pulled out when required.

The reader could therefore consult his convenience, and
work either sitting or standing (fig. 65). For both these positions the
heights are very suitable, and at the bottom of the case was a plinth
(fig. 66, C), on which he could set his feet.

The seats between each pair of desks were of course put up at the same time as the desks themselves. They
shew an advance in comfort, being divided into two, so as to allow support to the reader's back.

Similar desks occur in a beautiful miniature (fig. 68) from a manuscript
(now in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge[330]) written in France
about 1480.

They appear to be solid--possibly fitted with cupboards for books under the sloping portion. No seats are
shewn, and, as a reader is standing between them consulting a book, it may be concluded that they could only
be used by students in that position.

Lastly, I reproduce (fig. 69) a print by Jan Cornelis Woudanus, shewing
the library of the University of Leyden in 1610[331].

The bookcases were evidently contrived with the view of getting the largest
number possible into the room.

Each contained a single row of books, chained to a bar in front of the
shelf; and, also for the purpose of saving the space usually occupied
by a seat, readers were obliged to consult them standing.

There are eleven bookcases on each side of the room, each containing
from 40 to 48 volumes. At the end of the room are two cupboards, probably
for manuscripts; and to the right of the spectator is a third press,
marked Legatum Josephi Scaligeri. He died in January, 1609.

Further, as an illustration of the usual appliances for study found in
libraries at this period, and often mentioned in catalogues and account-books,
I would draw attention to the globes and maps.

I present these bookcases at this point of my researches with some diffidence, for they can hardly be
said to represent the lectern-system. On the other hand, they do not exactly represent any other; and I therefore
submit that they may be looked at here, as transitional specimens, bridging over the interval between the
desks we have lately been considering, and those which we shall have
to consider in the next chapter.

FOOTNOTES:

[258] The Statutes of the Colleges of Oxford and Cambridge bearing on the
care of books have been thoroughly analysed by Professor Willis in
his essay on "The Library," Arch.

Hist. III. pp. 387-471, which I edited and completed. I have therefore not thought it necessary
to acknowledge each quotation separately, but I wish it to be understood
that this section of my present book is to a great extent borrowed
from him.

[259]
Wood, History and Antiquities of the University of Oxford, ed. Gutch, 4to.
Oxford, 1796, Vol. II.

Part 2, p. 910.

[260] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. 1. Statutes of Merton College, Cap.
2, p. 24.

[261] Sketch of the Life of Walter de Merton, by Edmund [Hobhouse],
Bishop of Nelson, New Zealand, 8vo.

Oxford, 1859, p. 39.

[262] Annals of University College, by Wm.

Smith, 8vo. 1728, pp. 37-39. I have compared Mr Smith's version with
the Statute as printed by Anstey, Munimenta Academica, I. 58, 59,
and have made a few corrections.

[263] Commiss. Docts. (Oxford), Vol. I. Statutes of Oriel College,
p. 14.

[264] Ibid. p. 22.

[265] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II.
38. De omnibus libris Domus, Munimentis, et Chartis custodiendis.

[266] Ibid. p. 17. De Duobus Decanis et eorum officio.

[267] Commiss.
Docts. (Cambridge), II. 44. Statutum de libris Collegii.

[268] Commiss. Docts. (Cambridge), II. 432. De libris
Collegii.

[269] The words are "in libraria communi ... ad sociorum communem usum continue
remanere."


Anything more certain to destroy energy, to cut at the roots of thrift, to undermine all the
best qualities of manhood, it would be impossible to imagine. The slave on the plantation could
in time purchase his freedom. The tiller of the soil in Ireland found, on the contrary, that
the greater his industry, the greater was the sum he had to pay for the right to exercise it.
We saw that there never was any pretence of free contract in the feudal land-tenure of England;
that there never was any pretence of an honest bargain between farmer and landlord, for their
mutual benefit. The tenant paid the landlord for services rendered, not to him, but to his
Norman conqueror. So it was, in an even greater degree, in Ireland. There was no pretence at
all that tenant and landlord entered into a free contract for their mutual benefit. Nor did
either law, custom, religion or opinion require the landlord to make any return to his tenants
for the share of the fruit of their toil he annually carried away.

The tiller of the soil, therefore, labored from year to year, through droughts and rains, through
heat and cold, facing bad seasons with good. At the end of the year, after hard toil had gathered
in the fruit of the harvest, he saw the best part of that fruit legally confiscated by an alien,
who would have been speechless with wonder, had it been suggested to him that anything was
due from him in return. Nor was that all. This alien was empowered, and by the force of public
opinion incited, to exact the greatest possible share of the tiller's produce, and, as we saw,
he was entitled to the whole benefit of whatever improvements the tiller of the soil had made;
and could--and constantly did--expel the cultivator who was unable or unwilling to pay a higher
tax, as the penalty for improving the land.

It may be said that bad as this all was, it was not without a remedy; that the cultivator had
the choice of other occupations, and might let the land lie fallow, while its "owner" starved.
But this only brings to mind the fact that during the eighteenth century England had legislated
with the deliberate intention of destroying the manufactures and shipping of Ireland, and had
legislated with success. It should be added that this one measure affected all residents in
Ireland equally, whatever faith or race. There was practically no alternative before the cultivator.
He had the choice between robbery and starvation.

It would be more than miraculous if this condition of things had not borne its fruit. The result
was this: it ceased to be the interest of the cultivator of the land to till it effectively,
or to make any improvement whatever, whether by drainage, reclaiming waste land, or building,
or by adopting better agricultural methods. In every case, his increase of labor, of foresight
and energy, would have met with but one reward: when the time came to renew the lease, he would
have been told that his land had doubled in value during the year, and that he must, therefore,
pay twice as much for the privilege of tilling it. If he refused, he at once forfeited every
claim to the fruit of his own work, the whole of his improvements becoming the property of
the land owner.

The cultivators, as an inevitable consequence, lost every incentive to labor, energy, foresight
and the moral qualities which are fostered by honestly rewarded work. They worked as little
as possible on their farms, and the standard of cultivation steadily declined, while the mode
of living grew perpetually worse. If it were intended to reduce a whole population to hopeless
poverty, no better or more certain way could be imagined.

The steady lowering of the arts of cultivation, the restriction of crops, the tendency to keep
as close as possible to the margin of sustenance, thus zealously fostered, opened the way for
the disastrous famine of 1846 and 1847, which marks the beginning of a rapid decline in population,--a
decrease which has never since been checked. The inhabitants of Ireland shortly before the
famine numbered considerably over eight millions. Since that time, there has been a decrease
of about four millions--a thing without parallel in Christendom.

The amendment of the land-laws, which were directly responsible for these evil results, was
by no means initiated in consequence of the famine. It was due wholly to a great national agitation,
carried out under the leadership of Charles Stewart Parnell, which led to the land-acts of
1881 and 1887. These new laws at last guaranteed to the cultivator the fruit of his toil, and
guarded him against arbitrary increase of the tax levied on him by the "owner" of the land.
But they did not stop here; they initiated a principle which will finally make the cultivator
absolute owner of his land, and abolish the feudal class with their rights of private taxation.
This cannot fail to react on England, so that the burdens of the Angles and Saxons will at
last be lifted from their shoulders, as a result of the example set them by the Gaels, for
generations working persistently, and persistently advancing towards their goal. Nor will the
tide thus set in motion spread only to Saxon and Angle; its influence will be felt wherever
those who work are deprived unjustly of the fruit of their toil, whether by law or without
law. Button's Coffee-house, the resort of the wits of Queen's Anne's time, was in Russell-street--we
believe, near where the Hummums now stand.

We think we recollect reading also, that in the same street, at one
of the corners of Bow-street, was the tavern where Dryden held regal
possession of the arm chair.

The whole of Covent-garden is classic ground, from its association with the dramatic and other
wits of the times of Dryden and Pope.

Butler lived, perhaps died, in Rose-street, and was buried in Covent-garden Churchyard; where Peter
Pindar the other day followed him. In Leicester-square, on the site
of Miss Linwood's exhibition and other houses, was the town mansion
of the Sydneys, Earls of Leicester, and the family of Sir Philip and
Algernon Sydney.

In the same square lived Sir Joshua Reynolds. Dryden lived and died in Gerrard-street, in a house
which looked backwards into the garden of Leicester House.

Newton lived in St. Martin's-street, on the south side of the square.
Steele lived in Bury-street, St. James'; he furnishes an illustrious
precedent for the loungers in St. James'-street, where scandal-mongers
of those times delighted to detect Isaac Bickerstaff in the person
of captain Steele, idling before the Coffee-house, and jerking his
leg and stick alternately against the pavement.

We have mentioned the birth of Ben Jonson, near Charing-cross.

Spenser died at an inn, where he put up on his arrival from Ireland, in King-street, Westminster--the same
which runs at the back of Parliament-street to the Abbey.

Sir Thomas More lived at Chelsea. Addison lived and died in Holland House,
Kensington, now the residence of the accomplished nobleman who takes
his title from it.

In Brook-street,
Grosvenor-square, lived Handel; and in Bentinck-street, Manchester-square, Gibbon. We have omitted
to mention that De Foe kept a hosier's shop in Cornhill; and that, on the site of the present Southampton-buildings,
Chancery-lane, stood the mansion of the Wriothesleys, Earls of Southampton,
one of whom was the celebrated friend of Shakspeare.

But what have we not omitted also?

No less an illustrious head than the Boar's, in Eastcheap--the Boar's
Head Tavern, the scene of Falstaff's revels.

We believe the place is still marked out by a similar sign. But who knows not Eastcheap and the Boar's
Head?

Have we not all been there time out of mind?

And is it not a more real, as well as notorious thing to us, than
the London Tavern, or the Crown and Anchor, or the Hummums, or White's,
or What's-his-name's, or any other of your contemporary and fleeting
taps?

[2] The Temple must have had many eminent inmates. Among them, it is believed,
was Chaucer, who is also said, upon the strength of an old record,
to have been fined two shillings for beating a Franciscan Friar in
Fleet-street.

"Before we rest our wings, however, we must take another dart over the
city, as far as Stratford at Bow, where, with all due tenderness for
boarding-school French, a joke of Chaucer has existed as a piece
of local humour for nearly four hundred and fifty years.

 The new
age now dawning before us carries many promises of good for all humanity; not less, it has
its dangers, grave and full of menace; threatening, if left to work unchecked, to bring lasting
evil to our life. Never before, it is true, have there been so wide opportunities for material
well-being; but, on the other hand, never before have there been such universal temptations
toward a low and sensual ideal. Our very mastery over natural forces and material energies
entices us away from our real goal, hides from our eyes the human and divine powers of the
soul, with which we are enduringly concerned. He had also his daughters, and he was a loving and sympathetic
father, realizing that children need brightness in their lives as
well as mere care, and taking his little family about whenever he
could to parties and shows; and he had a growing reputation in the
literary world.

"Pendennis"
was published in 1848, and before it had finished running Thackeray
suffered from a severe illness, that left its mark on all his succeeding
life.

It was after this that Miss Brontë came to dine with him in Young Street. She had admired "Vanity Fair"
immensely, and was ready to offer hero-worship; but the sensitive, dull little governess did not
reveal in society the fire that had made her books live, and we
are told that Thackeray, although her host, found the dinner so dull
that he slipped away to his club before she left.

He had now a good income from his books, and added to it by lecturing.

"Esmond" appeared in 1852, and the references to my Lady Castlewood's
house in Kensington Square and the Greyhound tavern (the name of the
inn opposite to Thackeray's own house) will be remembered by everyone.

The novelist visited America shortly after, and then went with his children
to Switzerland, and it was in Switzerland that the idea for "The
Newcomes" came to him.

Young Street can only claim a part of that book, for in 1853 he moved
to Onslow Square, and the last number of "The Newcomes" did not appear
until 1855.

However, this was not his last connection with this part of Kensington,
for in 1861 he built himself a house in Palace Green, but he only
occupied it for two years, when his death occurred at the early age
of fifty-two.

The houses in Kensington Court, near by, are elaborately decorated
with ornamental terra-cotta mouldings.

They stand just about the place where once was Kensington House, which
had something of a history.

It was for a while the residence of the Duchess of Portsmouth (Louise de Querouaille), and later
was the school of Dr. Elphinstone, referred to in Boswell's "Life of Johnson," and supposed, on the very
slightest grounds, to have been the original of one of Smollett's brutal schoolmasters in "Roderick
Random"; though the driest of pedagogues, Elphinstone was the reverse
of brutal.

The house was subsequently a Roman Catholic seminary, and then a boarding-house,
where Mrs. Inchbald lodged, and in which she died in 1821.

Close by was another old house, made notorious by its owner's miserliness;
this man, Sir Thomas Colby, died intestate, and his fortune of £200,000
was divided among six or seven day labourers, who were his next of
kin.

A new Kensington House was built on the site of these two, and is said to have cost £250,000, but its
owner got into difficulties, and eventually the costly house was pulled down, and its fittings sold for
a twentieth part of their value.

Near at hand are De Vere Gardens, to which Robert Browning came in
June, 1887, from Warwick Crescent.

Further eastward we come to Palace
Gate.

Some of
this property belongs to the local charities. It is known as Butts Field Estate, and was so
called from the fact that the butts for archery practice were once set up here.

KENSINGTON GARDENS AND PALACE.

The Gardens are so intimately connected with the Palace that it is impossible
to touch upon the one without the other, and though Leigh Hunt caustically
remarked that a criticism might be made on Kensington that it has "a Palace
which is no palace, Gardens which are no gardens, and a river called
the Serpentine which is neither serpentine nor a river," yet in spite
of this the Palace, the Gardens, and the river annually give pleasure
to thousands, and possess attractions of their own by no means despicable.

The flower-beds in the gardens nearest to Kensington Road are beautiful
enough in themselves to justify the title of gardens. This is the
quarter most patronized by nursemaids and their charges.

There are
shady narrow paths, also the Broad Walk, with its leafy overarching
boughs resembling one of Nature's aisles, and the Round Pond, pleasant
in spite of its primness. The Gardens were not always open to the
public, but partly belonged to the palace of time-soiled bricks to
which the public is now also admitted.

The first house on this site of which we have any reliable detail is
that built by Sir Heneage Finch, the second of the name, who was Lord
Chancellor under Charles I. and was created Earl of Nottingham in 1681,
though it is probable that there had been some building on or near
the same place before, possibly the manor-house of the Abbot. The first
Earl of Nottingham had bought the estate from his younger brother, Sir John,
and it was from his successor, the second earl, that William III.
bought Nottingham House, as it was then called.

William suffered much from asthma, and the gravel pits of Kensington
were then considered very healthy, and combined the advantages of
not being very far from town with the pure air of the country. GENERAL VIEW, FROM THE WEST. EXTERIOR OF THE LADY CHAPEL. DRAWN BY
A. HUGH FISHER. THE CLOISTERS, WITH THE LADIES’ ARBOUR. THE NORTH
PORCH. THE NAVE. THE CHOIR SCREEN. SECTION THROUGH TOWER AND TRANSEPTS.
NORTH ARCH OF CENTRAL TOWER, SHOWING MASONRY ERECTED ABOUT 1320.