Bernardin St. Pierre, whose pathetic tale of "Paul and Virginia" has found admirers in every
language of the civilized world, in a fragment, entitled "Arcadia," attempted to depict an
ideal republic, without priest, noble, or slave, where all are so religious that each man is
the pontiff of his family, where each man is prepared to defend his country, and where all
are in such a state of equality that there are no such persons as servants.  The plan of it
was suggested by his friend Rousseau during their pleasant walking excursions about the environs
of Paris, in which the two enthusiastic philosophers, baffled by the evil passions and intractable
materials of human nature as manifested in existing society, comforted themselves by appealing
from the actual to the possible, from the real to the imaginary.  Under the chestnut-trees
of the Bois de Boulogne, through long summer days, the two friends, sick of the noisy world
about them, yet yearning to become its benefactors,--gladly escaping from it, yet busy with
schemes for its regeneration and happiness,--at once misanthropes and philanthropists,--amused
and solaced themselves by imagining a perfect and simple state of society, in which the lessons
of emulation and selfish ambition were never to be taught; where, on the contrary, the young
were to obey their parents, and to prefer father, mother, brother, sister, wife, and friend
to themselves. They drew beautiful pictures of a country blessed with peace, indus try, and
love, covered with no disgusting monuments of violence and pride and luxury, without columns,
triumphal arches, hospitals, prisons, or gibbets; but presenting to view bridges over torrents,
wells on the arid plain, groves of fruit-trees, and houses of shelter for the traveller in
desert places, attesting everywhere the sentiment of humanity.  Religion was to speak to all
hearts in the eternal language of Nature.  Death was no longer to be feared; perspectives of
holy consolation were to open through the cypress shadows of the tomb; to live or to die was
to be equally an object of desire.

The plan of the "Arcadia" of St. Pierre is simply this: A learned young Egyptian, educated
at Thebes by the priests of Osiris, desirous of benefiting humanity, undertakes a voyage to
Gaul for the purpose of carrying thither the arts and religion of Egypt. In Denmark, where the
climate is much colder, hardier conifers, as well as the birch and other northern trees, are
found to answer a better purpose than the maritime pine, and it is doubtful whether this tree
would be able to resist the winter on the dunes of Massachusetts. Probably the pitch-pine of
the Northern States, in conjunction with some of the American oaks,
birches, and poplars, and especially the robinia or locust, would
prove very suitable to be employed on the sand-hills of Cape Cod and
Long Island.
This pleasant little prose poem closes somewhat abruptly. Although inferior in artistic skill
to "Paul and Virginia" or the "Indian Cottage", there is not a little to admire in the simple
beauty of its pastoral descriptions.  The closing paragraph reminds one of Bunyan's upper chamber,
where the weary pilgrim's windows opened to the sunrising and the singing of birds:--

"Tyrteus conducted his guests to an adjoining chamber.  It had a window shut by a curtain of
rushes, through the crevices of which the islands of the Alpheus might be seen in the light
of the moon.  There were in this chamber two excellent beds, with coverlets of warm and light wool.

"Now, as soon as Amasis was left alone with Cephas, he spoke with joy of the delight and tranquillity
of the valley, of the goodness of the shepherd, and the grace of his young daughter, to whom
he had seen none worthy to be compared, and of the pleasure which he promised himself the next
day, at the festival on Mount Lyceum, of beholding a whole people as happy as this sequestered
family.  Converse so delightful might have charmed away the night without the aid of sleep,
had they not been invited to repose by the mild light of the moon shining through the window,
the murmuring wind in the leaves of the poplars, and the distant noise of the Achelous, which
falls roaring from the summit of Mount Lyceum."

The young patrician wits of Athens doubtless laughed over Plato's ideal republic.  Campanella's
"City of the Sun" was looked upon, no doubt, as the distempered vision of a crazy state prisoner.
Bacon's college, in his "New Atlantis," moved the risibles of fat-witted Oxford.  More's "Utopia,"
as we know, gave to our language a new word, expressive of the vagaries and dreams of fanatics
and lunatics.  The merciless wits, clerical and profane, of the court of Charles II.  regarded
Harrington's romance as a perfect godsend to their vocation of ridicule.  The gay dames and
carpet knights of Versailles made themselves merry with the prose pastoral of St.  Pierre;
and the poor old enthusiast went down to his grave without finding an auditory for his lectures
upon natural society.

The world had its laugh over these romances.  When unable to refute their theories, it could
sneer at the authors, and answer them to the satisfaction of the generation in which they lived,
at least by a general charge of lunacy.  Some of their notions were no doubt as absurd as those
of the astronomer in "Rasselas", who tells Imlac that he has for five years possessed the regulation
of the weather, and has got the secret of making to the different nations an equal and impartial
dividend of rain and sunshine.  But truth, even when ushered into the world through the medium
of a dull romance and in connection with a vast progeny of errors, however ridiculed and despised
at first, never fails in the end of finding a lodging-place in the popular mind.  The speculations
of the political theorists whom we have noticed have not all proved to be of

                                "such stuff
          As dreams are made of, and their little life
          Rounded with sleep."

They have entered into and become parts of the social and political fabrics of Europe and America.
The prophecies of imagination have been fulfilled; the dreams of romance have become familiar
realities.

What is the moral suggested by this record?  Is it not that we should look with charity and
tolerance upon the schemes and speculations of the political and social theorists of our day;
that, if unprepared to venture upon new experiments and radical changes, we should at least
consider that what was folly to our ancestors is our wisdom, and that another generation may
successfully put in practice the very theories which now seem to us absurd and impossible?
Many of the evils of society have been measurably removed or ameliorated; yet now, as in the
days of the Apostle, "the creation groaneth and travaileth in pain;" and although quackery
and empiricism abound, is it not possible that a proper application of some of the remedies
proposed might ameliorate the general suffering?  Rejecting, as we must, whatever is inconsistent
with or hostile to the doctrines of Christianity, on which alone rests our hope for humanity,
it becomes us to look kindly upon all attempts to apply those doctrines to the details of human
life, to the social, political, and industrial relations of the race.  If it is not permitted
us to believe all things, we can at least hope them.  Despair is infidelity and death.  Temporally
and spiritually, the declaration of inspiration holds good, "We are saved by hope."

                 PECULIAR INSTITUTIONS OF MASSACHUSETTS.

                                 [1851.]

BERNARDIN ST. PIERRE, in his Wishes of a Solitary, asks for his country neither wealth, nor
military glory, nor magnificent palaces and monuments, nor splendor of court nobility, nor
clerical pomp.  "Rather," he says, "O France, may no beggar tread thy plains, no sick or suffering
man ask in vain for relief; in all thy hamlets may every young woman find a lover and every
lover a true wife; may the young be trained arightly and guarded from evil; may the old close
their days in the tranquil hope of those who love God and their fellow-men."

We are reminded of the amiable wish of the French essayist--a wish even yet very far from realization,
we fear, in the empire of Napoleon III.-- by the perusal of two documents recently submitted
to the legislature of the State of Massachusetts.  They indicate, in our view, the real glory
of a state, and foreshadow the coming of that time when Milton's definition of a true commonwealth
shall be no longer a prophecy, but the description of an existing fact,--"a huge Christian
personage, a mighty growth and stature of an honest man, moved by the purpose of a love of
God and of mankind."

Some years ago, the Legislature of Massachusetts, at the suggestion of several benevolent gentlemen
whose attention had been turned to the subject, appointed a commission to inquire into the
condition of the idiots of the Commonwealth, to ascertain their numbers, and whether anything
could be done in their behalf.

The commissioners were Dr. Samuel G. Howe, so well and honorably known for his long and arduous
labors in behalf of the blind, Judge Byington, and Dr. Gilman Kimball.  The burden of the labor
fell upon the chairman, who entered upon it with the enthusiasm, perseverance, and practical
adaptation of means to ends which have made him so efficient in his varied schemes of benevolence.
On the 26th of the second month, 1848, a full report of the results of this labor was made
to the Governor, accompanied by statistical tables and minute details.  One hundred towns had
been visited by the chairman or his reliable agent, in which five hundred and seventy-five
persons in a state of idiocy were discovered. These were examined carefully in respect to their
physical as well as mental condition, no inquiry being omitted which was calculated to throw
light upon the remote or immediate causes of this mournful imperfection in the creation of
God.  The proximate causes Dr. Howe mentions are to be found in the state of the bodily organization,
deranged and disproportioned by some violation of natural law on the part of the parents or
remoter ancestors of the sufferers. Paul Louis Courier quotes from La Bruyere the following striking
picture of the condition of the French peasantry in his time: "One sees certain dark, livid, naked,
sunburnt, wild animals, male and female, scattered over the country and attached to the soil,
which they root and turn over with indomitable perseverance. "These are his own words," adds Courier,
"and he is speaking of the fortunate peasants, of those who had work and bread, and they were
then the few."--Petition a la Chambre des Deputes pour les Villageois
l'en empeche ce danser.

Of the 575 cases, 420 were those of idiocy from birth, and 155 of idiocy afterwards.  Of the
born idiots, 187 were under twenty-five years of age, and all but 13 seemed capable of improvement.
Of those above twenty-five years of age, 73 appeared incapable of improvement in their mental
condition, being helpless as children at seven years of age; 43 out of the 420 seemed as helpless
as children at two years of age; 33 were in the condition of mere infants; and 220 were supported
at the public charge in almshouses.  A large proportion of them were found to be given over
to filthy and loathsome habits, gluttony, and lust, and constantly sinking lower towards the
condition of absolute brutishness.

