Transcribers Note:

Original Text in bold is represented by "=", italic text by "". In paragraph XII, line 4 "myraids"
has been replaced by "myriads".

          "THE TYRANNY
             of GOD"

               By
          JOSEPH LEWIS

    The new and daring book on the
      Philosophy of Atheism

          CLARENCE DARROW

  =eminent lawyer, noted philosopher, and humanitarian, says=:

"Your book, 'The Tyranny of God,' is well done. It is a very clear statement of the question,
bold and true beyond dispute. I am glad that you wrote it. It is as plain as the multiplication
table, which doesn't mean that everyone will believe it. I thank you for writing it. I wish
I were the author."

A special edition of "The Tyranny of God," consists of two hundred and fifty copies, printed
on Utopian paper, bound in limp leather, gilt top, stamped in gold. Each copy is autographed
and numbered by the author.

     Second edition, May, 1921
    Third edition, April, 1922
   Fourth edition, January, 1928
    Fifth edition, April, 1930
   Sixth edition, October, 1939
  Seventh edition, November, 1943

  THE TYRANNY OF GOD

     THE TYRANNY
       OF GOD

         BY

    JOSEPH LEWIS

  THE FREETHOUGHT PRESS ASSOCIATION

       NEW YORK

    COPYRIGHTED, 1921, BY
  FREETHOUGHT PRESS ASSOCIATION

All Rights Reserved

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

       DEDICATED
         TO
        FAY
  MY DEAR WIFE AND COMRADE,
  WHOSE LOYAL AND
  DEVOTED COMPANIONSHIP
  HAS MADE LIFE LIVABLE.

FOREWORD

Go forth, little book, to destroy fear, prejudice and superstition, and help to install Reason
in the minds of the human race to be its guide in the affairs of life and its living.

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION

The most eloquent testimony given this little book is the fact that a second edition is made
necessary only a few months after the publication of the first edition.

Favorable comments and letters of recommendation from men and women eminent in literary and
scientific realms, and commendatory reviews in periodicals of high standard are, I think, sufficient
cause for the belief that "The Tyranny of God" forms a necessary cog in the machinery of intellectual
thought and progress.

Even those who bitterly oppose the book admit that it possesses the power to make its readers
think.

Of the many opposing reviews and adverse criticism of "The Tyranny of God," not a single one
offers an argument in answer to it. For the most part, their characterization has been that
it is "pessimistic." As if by calling it "pessimistic," they refute its claims!

If to tell a man the true nature of a disease from which he is suffering, with the hope that
he will seek a cure for his malady, is pessimism, then I am a pessimist. Is the use of a danger
signal at a hazardous crossing, for the purpose of preventing disaster, pessimism?

If to literally "hold the mirror up to Nature," disclosing Nature's utter disregard for the
life and feelings of man, as a warning against the extravagant and useless propagating of life,
is pessimism, then surely I am a pessimist.

If a fervent desire to help Man, instead of wasting time in prayer to "God," is pessimism,
I am a pessimist.

If to think, to investigate, to express one's thoughts courageously in the face of centuries
old dogma is pessimism, then I must confess I am a pessimist.

If to expose sham, hypocrisy and fraud; if to open the mind and free it from fear; if to stimulate
the intellect, and work for the Here instead of the "Hereafter"--if all these are classified
as pessimism, then truly may I be called an arch pessimist.

"The Tyranny of God" was written to express the truth as I see it--to portray life, not as
we would like to have it, but as it actually is.

Millions are still like frightened children, afraid of their own shadows. Fear of the truth
is the greatest deterrent to its acceptance.

                                                  JOSEPH LEWIS

April 14, 1922

PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION

I am indeed gratified to send forth the fourth edition of "The Tyranny of God."

I wish, however, to say to the reader that my book deals with life philosophically and not
individually. It was from the viewpoint of life in general and the universe as a whole that
the sentiments herein were expressed.

To love God is not the duty of man and one of the most important tasks to be accomplished for
the human race is to destroy the Theistic conception of Life and the Universe.

The sentiments I expressed at a memorial meeting in honor of Luther Burbank last May best illustrate
my convictions. I said:

"The religious person loves God so vehemently that he has no love left for Man."

May "The Tyranny of God" do much to accomplish the purpose of its author.

                                           JOSEPH LEWIS

January 10, 1928

INTRODUCTION

Where did we come from? What are we doing here? Whither are we going?

These questions have puzzled thinking people since consciousness first dawned in the brain.
Many have sought to answer them, so why not I?--with the hope that the reading of this book
will arouse in the minds of the readers thoughts that will enable them to answer these questions
for themselves.

Were you suddenly to find yourself living on another planet, and you were a thinking being,
one anxious for knowledge, you would naturally investigate the conditions under which you found
yourself, and seek, if possible, a solution for your existence there. Surely it is equally
appropriate, situated as we are on this earth, endowed with brains and possessing senses and
nerves, to inquire into and investigate the conditions under which we live, and the purpose,
if any, of our existence here.

The peculiarity of this existence warrants such analysis. It is certain, from our understanding
as well as from all visible scientific facts, that we did not make ourselves, and that we never
had a former existence; and we are led to conclude, in view of lack of credible evidence to
the contrary, from those who have passed on, that the future, so far as our individual life
is concerned, is an eternal void.

It is also certain, as science has indubitably shown, that we do not make our offspring, that
we are not creators, but are instruments merely in producing life.

Furthermore, we did not make any portion of the globe which we inhabit and of which we are
a part, and, so far as we are able to determine, all the natural conditions and "raw materials"
of our environment are something separate and distinct from anything which we ourselves possess
sufficient power to accomplish.

Therefore, since among the organs of my body, there is a thinking portion, I am within the
bounds of sanity when I investigate and express such thoughts, opinions and findings as my
reason and understanding dictate. No one can truthfully say that he possesses sufficient knowledge
to account for or to explain the peculiar and mystifying rules, conditions and surroundings
which we are forced to accept, abide by and live under. And, therefore, the result of one person's
findings is worthy the same consideration as those of another.

Upon such basis I submit an honest attempt to express logically my convictions upon this vital
and puzzling condition of our existence, and shall endeavor to aid those who read this book
to see conditions in what I believe to be their true light, and to stimulate the readers to
think for themselves. It is only through the exchange of the results of investigations, and
of honest opinions, that we have been able to add improvement to improvement, and make easier
the routine of our lives. The conditions and elements that compose Nature, for the sake of
clearness, I will ofttimes call "God." I shall be more easily understood, and at times the
term "God" will express more succinctly the thoughts or ideas I wish to express.

THE TYRANNY OF GOD

I

Lest I be misunderstood, I will say at the outset that I do not believe in a God.

The belief in a God is still generally accepted, not because of the existence of one, but for
the reason that it is the easiest way to account for our condition. But in the light of scientific
discoveries and demonstrations, such a belief is unfounded and utterly untenable to-day. Yet
the word "God," and even the word "Nature," must often be used to describe that condition which
the brain of man has not yet been able to analyze fully and scientifically. One ridiculous
conception of God that is believed by a multitude of people, is that of a massive being, sitting
in a marble chamber studded with gold and lighted with glistening crystals. Do those who believe
in such a creature ever consider him taking a bath--and in what? Or of eating his breakfast--and
of what it consists?

If there were a God, and the world were governed with stern justice, tempered to our feeble
intelligence, existence might become tolerable, but as it is, with a so-called God "ruling
above," the earth is an abominable place and life a long series of terrifying torments. If
I were to advocate a belief, or faith, in a God, I would seek the embodiment of those things
diametrically opposite to the attributes of the popular God of to-day. Such a creature is not
worthy the sacrifice of ourselves and our thoughts.

Let us examine and investigate the system and arrangement of the world--that is, that portion
of which we are a part and which so vitally concerns us.

The result of our most extensive study and labor shows us that the earth, after an illimitable
duration of time, has gradually attained its present peculiar development. In other words,
Nature has taken millions of years to produce the earth as it is now formed; and if it were
made particularly for human beings it is not yet completed, for we still find spots, aye, vast
areas, where human life is incapable of subsisting. The climate is either too hot or too cold;
there is too much water or too little moisture; the means of cultivation are too meager or
utterly unobtainable.

In short, after eons of labor, Nature has failed to be able to present to every one of us,
for our habitation, a parcel of earth commodious and comfortable enough to be perfectly desirable
for life and its living.

Surely, if the earth were made for our benefit, Nature has been not only a very poor provider,
but a very thoughtless parent.

Some say that man is Nature's best product, that the earth was made for us, that we are particularly
selected by God, and that a certain race is his chosen people. But that is not true. The Jews
are no more God's chosen people than the jay is his chosen bird, or the mosquito his chosen insect.

It is not true that Nature particularly works for us--facts prove the contrary.

Facts prove that we are nothing but an undesirable by-product, to make our way and to live
our life as best we can within a cruelly turbulent space, imprisoned by invisible, impenetrable
walls of limitation.

No, it is not true that our life is favored by Nature. After we build our homes, make our cities
and add improvements, what happens? Nature, with her forceful winds, blows them down; her cruel
storms and rising floods wash them away as so much refuse, and a tremor of the earth destroys
not only our homes but ourselves also, leaving no traces of our efforts, treasures and sacred ties.

Even as individuals we "curse God" for the shortcomings with which we are afflicted. The exceedingly
stout person, one who is "in his own way" curses God for making him so stout. The thin person
has a similar grievance. Those who are too large and those who are too small are equally dissatisfied.
The shape of an eye, the curve of the mouth, a blemish here, an impediment there, is the direct
cause of poignant embarrassment. Organs or dimensions too unsightly and unsatisfactory are
productive of continual worry and torment throughout our lives. The blind, the deaf, the dumb
and the crippled have forever a curse for God upon their lips.

We inhabit the air, with a density of fifteen pounds to the square inch, a mixture of dirt
and water, in the same manner that the fish inhabits the water and the worm the earth. Were
we beings of a superior type, Nature would have made us so versatile that we should be able
to accustom ourselves to any condition, and survive in any climate. But despite all our improvements,
despite all man's efforts to avoid and escape the conditions of Nature, many of us freeze to
death in winter and become prostrate from the heat of summer. If it were true that the earth
were purposely made and existing for us there would be "no flowers born to blush unseen and
waste their sweetness on the desert air."

We, ourselves, scientists tell us, are the result of a long series of evolutionary development.
They tell us that Nature started with a single cell of protoplasm, a single cell of living
organism, and produced the present human species after the life and death of an illimitable
number of forms through the stages of countless ages, not exempting those lives from the fear,
torture and misery that are still so essential a part of the scheme of life. Why impose so
cruel and wasteful a condition upon those numberless billions that have lived before us, since
nothing but eternal death was gained by their existence?

Surely, Nature is a poor architect and builder, after taking so much material and so much time,
to make such an incomplete place for such an outlandish form to rule and occupy. If we were
given the same opportunity (that is, you and I), with all the power and resources of Nature,
to build a habitable place, and mold a living something to inhabit it, our results would be
ten thousand times better than that which circles the scope and boundary of our lives, with
the incomprehensible physical form with which we breathe and manifest life.

Truthfully, and without the slightest element of egotism, I should be ashamed of my efforts
were I to present as my handiwork nothing better than the level and plane which Nature has
attained.

II

We come into this world a tiny bundle and mass of helpless, feeble flesh, utterly unprepared
to meet the requirements and fearful conditions that lie in wait for us. We are in need of
immediate, urgent and constant help from those who were responsible for our birth, imperatively
so from our mother.

The child does not ask to come, and knows absolutely nothing about its welfare. And the mother
often does not want to bear it, as she knows absolutely nothing about maternal cares. And yet
that mother must go through the "shadow of the valley of death" before she can deliver this
tiny bundle and helpless mass of feeble flesh. And how often, aye, only too often, does the
mother enter the valley of death when making delivery of this living form, never to see the
face of the child that Nature imposed upon her to bear!

What a despicable arrangement!

What an unfair bargain!

Can you imagine a more outlandish, ridiculous, awkward, complicated, cruel and fearful system
of reproduction than that which we are under yoke to pursue? Without the elaborate details
of the perilous stages of life's development, this is the method of incubation Nature imposes
upon us. Before the birth of a human being, one male and one female--that is, one man and one
woman--must have sexual intercourse. Whether this intercourse is prompted by all the finer
impulses of life or is accomplished by the savageness of rape makes no difference to Nature's
purpose. To Nature the end justifies the means, and she continues to go about her business.

The male--that is, the man of this pair--can strut and parade with the utmost freedom from
his responsibility for the result of his act that Nature has made to be pre-eminent among his
desires. But the female--that is, the woman of this pair--must for nine months (just think
of it!) carry and develop the germ of this child in the fertile field of her womb, and be subjected
to the innumerable terrifying dangers accompanying such a carriage, and then suffer a superhuman
torture to make the delivery, through a very meager channel of her body, of this living plant
which she has never seen, does not know and quite often does not want, but must absolutely bear!

Provided Nature has not made the creature too deformed and mutilated and unable to survive,
the mother must, during a period of constant care and outward carriage, bear this feeble infant
for another period of nine months or more!--suckling at her breast for food!

So you see that woman is not only a human being, but a fertile ground and pasture.

I have not gone into the misery of child bearing and caring, nor of the ingratitude that is
so often received. I ask for what reason has Nature imposed this terrible penalty upon woman? Why?

Would you, reader, were it in your power, formulate such a method of reproduction?

I'll answer for you:

No!

But that is not all. For years to come, this child that for nine months was carried inwardly
and for a much longer period outwardly, by its mother, must now be fed, washed and clothed
for an indefinite number of years, and guided through a thousand perils and dangers that Nature
has set before it, with disease as Nature's agent, crouching and ready to destroy the child's
life, not in open combat, but invisibly concealed by the limitation of our senses. This is
one of Nature's unspeakable crimes; one of God's despicable impositions.

It is not sufficient that a mother should subject herself to such a dangerous and perilous
mission, but she must also withstand the cruel savageness, the cold, callous death piercings,
of Nature's invisible tyrants and destroyers. Life holds but one real attraction, one instance
that can be classified above all others. Without this attraction it would be a blessing to
choke the life breath from us all. With it we are helped to bear the Tyranny of God.

There comes a time to some of us when the heart of the one man beats for the one woman, and
there alights and resides in their breasts that spark of devotion that we call "love." When
there is born to that union a child, even though in Nature's stupid way, then a bond is created
more precious than anything else in this world. Without this little circle of loving joy, the
earth is a prison and life a grave injustice for those who must bear it. But think of the damnable
rule of Nature that strives and delights in working destruction of the only condition worthy
of life's living!

Oh, if only the life of our offspring were more stable, more secure!

If only the bosom of our family were guaranteed to us! Just think! The child the parents would
not harm, Nature tortures and God kills!

Looking back upon the path we have trodden, with its continual fight against disease, its manifold
combats with obstacles of life, and with its inevitable portion of sorrow we all must bear,
we should think seriously and consider the result of our act before we deliberately bring another
human being into this life.

You, yourself, do not consider your life worthy of reliving, so why bring a human being here
to go through the same, if not more, suffering and misery than you have borne with no resultant
good?

III

Up to this point I have been speaking of human beings only, living under improved conditions
that man has made. What must be the horror, darkness and emptiness of those living substances
that are "inferior" to us? Do you know and realize the suffering that we endure? Then let me,
in passing, urge this: Be also kind and considerate to our less fortunate inhabitants of this
earth, the "dumb" animals. Their feelings are quite similar to ours. They have gone through
the rougher parts of evolution that gave to us our more useful organs and limbs. They are allied
to us in much the same manner as the members of our own species. They have their painful aches
and periods, their hardships and tortures, their broken family ties and fearful abhorrence
of death; their flesh is tender and their skin is as delicate to them as ours is to us.

So let us "think twice," dear readers, before we deliberately harm any of our humbler brothers
and sisters that must inhabit this cold and callous earth and live their lives under a great
deal more tyranny and injustice than we live ours.

We deliberately enslave and brutally treat the gentle horse.

We tyrannically imprison birds and fishes as "pets."

We keep, breed, kill and eat a variety of animals for our own selfish purposes, and yet some
persons still have the audacity to say that we are "chosen people," "God's children," "divine
beings." Bah!

You know what painful inconvenience there is in losing an arm or a leg. Well, the winged and
footed beings that must bear this life suffer a great deal more than we do when one of their
limbs becomes dismembered.

Man has to a degree remedied or replaced his crippled limbs, but I do not think any other of
the higher animals have advanced so far, and as a result these creatures must endure their
pain and distressing annoyance to the end.

Recently I watched a common house fly caught upon "fly paper," and studied intently every visible
movement of it. Immediately upon alighting upon the sticky substance, its first thought, almost
instantaneously, was to make an effort to free itself. At once I thought of the fly's instinct
of "self-preservation," and contrasted it with the human's.

The fly must have had intelligence, since it knew that its life was in danger. And, since Nature
does not deal in "fly paper," the fly's reasoning power told it of its peril. With unabated
determination it vibrated its wings with lightning-like rapidity, and worked its legs unceasingly,
breaking them in the attempt, in its efforts to pull itself away to freedom!

As I watched this fly in its labor, this thought came to me: Is the fly unlike the human being
in its desire to live? Is it afraid of death and of the mystery of dissolution? Has it, too,
all the agony of fear of passing to the "Great Beyond"? Has it, too, an imaginary God in the
form of a Big Fly? And is it also afraid of that God's supposed wrath?

If the fly's desire to live is so great, what interest does it have in life?

Does it love? Does it derive happiness when it is able to labor to make happy its fly Juliet?

Does it want to live because it is ambitious and is trying to excel other flies?

Does it really think to better its species and solve the problem of its kind?

Is there a fly family to mourn its death?

While watching that fly and asking myself these questions, I was convinced of the following truths:

That the force that we call life is the same that animates the fly. That it, too, has control
of its muscles and nerves in the same proportion as we have control of ours. That it, too,
possesses the five senses and adds to its tiny brain more intelligence through its experiences.
Within the movements and actions of that fly was wrapped up the secret of "Whence did I come,
and whither am I going?"

As I released my attention from that fly, I muttered to myself: "The more I look at insects,
the more I think I am one."

For what purpose do we arise in the morning, fill our stomachs with food, till the fields,
and perform labor in exchange for nourishment, in the evening fall into a sleep from exertion,
arise the next day, and perform the same routine, day in and day out, week in and week out,
year in and year out, and at the age and in the heyday of physical development seek an outlet
in the opposite sex for the strongest impulse that Nature has implanted in us?

This impulse forces us to commit rape and murder, robbery and assault, and to violate every
principle of honor that man has tried to establish for the betterment and advancement of the race.

With the dissipation of this mighty sex force, we subside and decline into weakness and decay,
only to pass into death and oblivion.

What a fearful, wasted effort is this life!

IV

The system of nourishment that Nature has imposed upon the world is not only stupid and malicious,
but also of a cannibalistic character.

We, as frail human beings, are horrified and shocked to think that our ancestors trafficked
in and delighted in eating the flesh of their race, and even to-day we are making a strenuous
effort to discourage the barbarous custom of killing animals to eat their flesh, yet it seems
a dictate of Nature that forces us to uphold that custom. Just think of it! Nourishment and
life-sustaining forces are derived from eating the cooked flesh of a dead animal, the unborn
fowl, the bowels of the lamb, and the eggs of the fish!

Can you imagine the wildness of life in such a jungle of cannibalism? No wonder the savage
instinct is so deeply implanted in us.

To get a fair idea of the food we eat to sustain life and to please and satisfy our palates,
we need but take a casual glance at any of our modern butcher shops. Although to-day you will
not see human limbs on display and for sale, as they were years ago, you will be impressed
with the following morsels put there to tempt your appetite: In our modern butcher shops you
will find pigs' feet, calves' brains, ox tongues, breasts and legs of lamb, chicken livers,
dogs ground to bits and sold as sausages, live and dead fish of all kinds and varieties and
innumerable other portions of animal flesh.

Fortunately we have got beyond the point where we eat the entrails of these animals, although
we use their hoofs to make glue, their bones for powder, and we string our delicate musical
instruments with their vitals.

The things we consume, in turn consume the living forms that they capture and subdue.

The lion, the tiger and the leopard will devour us more quickly, and with less ceremony and
with more delight, than we devour other animals. We, being "civilized," boil the animal's flesh
and season it with weeds that Nature allows to grow, to give it zest and flavor, while our
wilder brothers eat us in the raw, natural manner, only removing our civilized clothes.

Really, if getting nearer to God is getting back to Nature, the beasts of the fields have an
advantage over us. And we know to-day that even the living things in the vegetable kingdom
suffer alike from the fearful tortures and penalties of the world. They follow almost the identical
routine of life that we follow. Birth, life, reproduction, and death are their lot as well
as ours; so that, if man were only to practice the idealism of his cramped and feeble brain
he would starve to death! 

To make a general index to your library does away with the necessity
for indexing individual volumes that are not already indexed.

To begin with, keep a note-book by you; or small cards and paper cuttings
in your pocket and on your desk will serve as well.

The same note-book that records the impressions of your own experiences
and thoughts will be enriched by the ideas of others.

To be sure,
this note-book habit means labor, but remember that more speeches
have been spoiled by half-hearted preparation than by lack of talent.

Laziness is an own-brother to Over-confidence, and both are your inveterate
enemies, though they pretend to be soothing friends.

Conserve your material by indexing every good idea on cards, thus:

[HW:

Socialism

Progress
of S., Env.

16 S. a fallacy, 96/210 General article on S., Howells', Dec. 1913
"Socialism and the Franchise," Forbes "Socialism in Ancient Life,"
Original Ms., Env.

102

]

On the card illustrated above, clippings are indexed by giving the
number of the envelope in which they are filed.

The envelopes may be of any size desired and kept in any convenient
receptacle.

On the foregoing example, "Progress of S., Envelope 16," will represent
a clipping, filed in Envelope 16, which is, of course, numbered arbitrarily.

The

fractions refer to books in your library--the numerator being the book-number, the denominator referring
to the page. Thus, "S. a fallacy, 96/210," refers to page 210 of volume 96 in your library.
By some arbitrary sign--say red ink--you may even index a reference
in a public library book.

If you preserve your magazines, important articles may be indexed by month and year. An entire volume
on a subject may be indicated like the imaginary book by "Forbes." If
you clip the articles, it is better to index them according to the
envelope system.

Your own writings and notes may be filed in envelopes with the clippings
or in a separate series.

Another good indexing system combines the library index with the "scrap,"
or clipping, system by making the outside of the envelope serve the
same purpose as the card for the indexing of books, magazines, clippings
and manuscripts, the latter two classes of material being enclosed in
the envelopes that index them, and all filed alphabetically.

When your cards accumulate so as to make ready reference difficult
under a single alphabet, you may subdivide each letter by subordinate
guide cards marked by the vowels, A, E, I, O, U. Thus, "Antiquities"
would be filed under i in A, because A begins the word, and the second
letter, n, comes after the vowel i in the alphabet, but before o.
In the same manner, "Beecher" would be filed under e in B; and "Hydrogen"
would come under u in H.

Outlining the Address

No one can advise
you how to prepare the notes for an address.

Some speakers get the best results while walking out and ruminating,
jotting down notes as they pause in their walk.

Others never put pen to paper until the whole speech has been thought
out. The great majority, however, will take notes, classify their
notes, write a hasty first draft, and then revise the speech.

Try each of these methods and choose the one that is best--for you. Do not allow any man to force you
to work in his way; but do not neglect to consider his way, for it may be better than your own.

For those who make notes and with their aid write out the speech,
these suggestions may prove helpful:

After having read and thought
enough, classify your notes by setting down the big, central thoughts
of your material on separate cards or slips of paper.

These will stand in the same relation to your subject as chapters
do to a book.

Then arrange these main ideas or heads in such an order that they will
lead effectively to the result you have in mind, so that the speech
may rise in argument, in interest, in power, by piling one fact or
appeal upon another until the climax--the highest point of influence
on your audience--has been reached.

Next group all your ideas, facts, anecdotes, and illustrations under
the foregoing main heads, each where it naturally belongs.

You now have a skeleton or outline of your address that in its polished
form might serve either as the brief, or manuscript notes, for the
speech or as the guide-outline which you will expand into the written
address, if written it is to be.

Imagine each of the main ideas in the brief on page 213 as being separate;
then picture your mind as sorting them out and placing them in order;
finally, conceive of how you would fill in the facts and examples
under each head, giving special prominence to those you wish to emphasize
and subduing those of less moment.

In the end, you have the outline
complete. The simplest form of outline--not very suitable for use on the
platform, however--is the following:

WHY PROSPERITY IS COMING

What prosperity means.--The real tests of prosperity.--Its basis in the soil.--American
agricultural progress.--New interest in farming.--Enormous value of our
agricultural products.--Reciprocal effect on trade.--Foreign countries
affected.--Effects of our new internal economy--the regulation of
banking and "big business"--on prosperity.--Effects of our revised
attitude toward foreign markets, including our merchant marine.--Summary.

Obviously,

this very simple outline is capable of considerable expansion under each
head by the addition of facts, arguments, inferences and examples.

Here
is an outline arranged with more regard for argument:

FOREIGN IMMIGRATION
SHOULD BE RESTRICTED[11]

I. FACT AS CAUSE: Many immigrants are practically
paupers.

(Proofs involving statistics or statements of authorities.)

II. FACT AS EFFECT: They sooner or later fill our alms-houses and
become public charges.

(Proofs involving statistics or statements of authorities.)

III. FACT AS CAUSE: Some of them are criminals. (Examples of recent cases.)

IV. FACT AS EFFECT: They reënforce the criminal classes. (Effects on our civic
life.)

V. FACT AS CAUSE: Many of them know nothing of the duties of free citizenship.
(Examples.)

VI.FACT AS EFFECT: Such immigrants recruit the worst element in our
politics.

(Proofs.)

A more highly ordered grouping of topics and subtopics is shown in the following:

OURS A CHRISTIAN NATION

I. INTRODUCTION: Why the subject is timely. Influences operative against
this contention today.

II. CHRISTIANITY PRESIDED OVER THE EARLY HISTORY OF AMERICA.

1. First practical discovery by a Christian explorer.

Columbus worshiped God on the new soil.

2. The Cavaliers.

3. The French Catholic settlers.

4. The Huguenots.

5. The Puritans.

III.

THE BIRTH OF OUR NATION WAS UNDER CHRISTIAN AUSPICES.

1. Christian character of Washington.

2. Other Christian patriots.

3. The Church in our Revolutionary struggle. Muhlenberg.

IV. OUR LATER HISTORY HAS ONLY EMPHASIZED OUR NATIONAL ATTITUDE. Examples
of dealings with foreign nations show Christian magnanimity.

Returning the Chinese Indemnity; fostering the Red Cross; attitude toward
Belgium.

V. OUR GOVERNMENTAL FORMS AND MANY OF OUR LAWS ARE OF A CHRISTIAN
TEMPER.

1. The use of the Bible in public ways, oaths, etc.

2.

The Bible in our schools.

3.

Christian chaplains minister to our law-making bodies, to our army,
and to our navy.

4. The Christian Sabbath is officially and generally recognized.

5.

The Christian family and the Christian system of morality are at the basis
of our laws.

VI. THE LIFE OF THE PEOPLE TESTIFIES OF THE POWER OF CHRISTIANITY.

Charities, education, etc., have Christian tone.

VII.

OTHER NATIONS REGARD US AS A CHRISTIAN PEOPLE.

VIII.

CONCLUSION: The attitude which may reasonably be expected of all
good citizens toward questions touching the preservation of our standing
as a Christian nation.

Writing and Revision

After the outline has been perfected comes the time to write the speech,
if write it you must.

Then, whatever you do, write it at white heat, with not too much
thought of anything but the strong, appealing expression of your ideas.

The

final stage is the paring down, the re-vision--the seeing again, as
the word implies--when all the parts of the speech must be impartially
scrutinized for clearness, precision, force, effectiveness, suitability,
proportion, logical climax; and in all this you must imagine yourself
to be before your audience, for a speech is not an essay and what
will convince and arouse in the one will not prevail in the other.

The Title

Often last of all will come that which in a sense is first of all--the
title, the name by which the speech is known.

Sometimes it will be the simple theme of the address, as "The New
Americanism," by Henry Watterson; or it may be a bit of symbolism
typifying the spirit of the address, as "Acres of Diamonds," by Russell
H. Conwell; or it may be a fine phrase taken from the body of the
address, as "Pass Prosperity Around," by Albert J. Beveridge.

All in all, from whatever motive it be chosen, let the title be fresh,
short, suited to the subject, and likely to excite interest.

QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES

1.

Define (a) introduction; (b) climax; (c) peroration.

2. If a thirty-minute speech would require three hours for specific
preparation, would you expect to be able to do equal justice to a
speech one-third as long in one-third the time for preparation?

Give reasons.

3. Relate briefly any personal experience you may have had in conserving
time for reading and thought.

4.

In the manner of a reporter or investigator, go out and get first-hand
information on some subject of interest to the public.

Arrange the results of your research in the form of an outline, or
brief.

5.

From a private or a public library gather enough authoritative material
on one of the following questions to build an outline for a twenty-minute
address.

Take one definite side of the question, (a) "The Housing of the Poor;"
(b) "The Commission Form of Government for Cities as a Remedy for
Political Graft;"

(c) "The Test of Woman's Suffrage in the West;"

(d) "Present Trends of Public Taste in Reading;" (e) "Municipal
Art;" (f) "Is the Theatre Becoming more Elevated in Tone?" (g) "The Effects
of the Magazine on Literature;" (h) "Does Modern Life Destroy Ideals?"
(i) "Is Competition 'the Life of Trade?'" (j) "Baseball is too Absorbing
to be a Wholesome National Game;" (k) "Summer Baseball and Amateur
Standing;" (l) "Does College Training Unfit a Woman for Domestic
Life?"

(m) "Does Woman's Competition with Man in Business Dull the Spirit of
Chivalry?" (n) "Are Elective Studies Suited to High School Courses?"
(o) "Does the Modern College Prepare Men for Preeminent Leadership?" (p)
"The Y.M.C.A. in Its Relation to the Labor Problem;" (q) "Public Speaking
as Training in Citizenship."

6.

Construct the outline, examining it carefully for interest, convincing character,
proportion, and climax of arrangement.

NOTE:--This exercise should be repeated until the student shows facility
in synthetic arrangement.

7. Deliver the address, if possible before an audience.

8. Make a three-hundred word report on the results, as best you are
able to estimate them.

9.

Tell something of the benefits of using a periodical (or cumulative)
index.

10. Give a number of quotations, suitable for a speaker's use, that you have memorized in off moments.

11.
In the manner of the outline on page 213, analyze the address on pages
78-79, "The History of Liberty."

12.

Give an outline analysis, from notes or memory, of an address or sermon
to which you have listened for this purpose.

13. Criticise the address from a structural point of view.

14. Invent titles for any five of the themes in Exercise 5.

15. Criticise the titles of any five chapters of this book, suggesting
better ones.

16. Criticise the title of any lecture or address of which you know.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote
10: How to Attract and Hold an Audience, J. Berg Esenwein.]

[Footnote
11: Adapted from Competition-Rhetoric, Scott and Denny, p. 241.]

CHAPTER
XIX

INFLUENCING BY EXPOSITION

Speak not at all, in any wise, till
you have somewhat to speak; care not for the reward of your speaking,
but simply and with undivided mind for the truth of your speaking.

--THOMAS
CARLYLE, Essay on Biography.

A complete discussion of the rhetorical structure of public speeches
requires a fuller treatise than can be undertaken in a work of this
nature, yet in this chapter, and in the succeeding ones on "Description,"
"Narration," "Argument," and "Pleading," the underlying principles
are given and explained as fully as need be for a working knowledge,
and adequate book references are given for those who would perfect
themselves in rhetorical art.

The Nature of Exposition

In the word "expose"--to lay bare, to uncover, to show the true inwardness
of--we see the foundation-idea of "Exposition."

It is the clear and precise setting forth of what the subject really
is--it is explanation.

Exposition does not draw a picture, for that would be description. To
tell in exact terms what the automobile is, to name its characteristic
parts and explain their workings, would be exposition; so would an
explanation of the nature of "fear."

But to create a mental image of a particular automobile, with its
glistening body, graceful lines, and great speed, would be description;
and so would a picturing of fear acting on the emotions of a child
at night.

Exposition and description often intermingle and overlap, but fundamentally
they are distinct.

Their differences will be touched upon again in the chapter on "Description."

Exposition
furthermore does not include an account of how events happened--that
is narration.

When Peary lectured on his polar discoveries he explained the instruments used for determining latitude
and longitude--that was exposition.

In picturing his equipment he used description. In telling of his adventures
day by day he employed narration.

In supporting some of his contentions he used argument. Yet he mingled all these forms throughout the
lecture.

Neither does exposition deal with reasons and inferences--that is
the field of argument.

A series of connected statements intended to convince a prospective buyer that one automobile is
better than another, or proofs that the appeal to fear is a wrong
method of discipline, would not be exposition.

The plain facts as set forth in expository speaking or writing are nearly always the basis of argument,
yet the processes are not one. True, the statement of a single significant fact without the addition
of one other word may be convincing, but a moment's thought will show
that the inference, which completes a chain of reasoning, is made in the mind of
the hearer and presupposes other facts held in consideration.[12]

In like manner, it is obvious that the field of persuasion is not open to
exposition, for exposition is entirely an intellectual process, with
no emotional element.

The Importance of Exposition

The importance of exposition in public speech is precisely the importance
of setting forth a matter so plainly that it cannot be misunderstood.

"To master the process of exposition is to become a clear thinker. 'I
know, when you do not ask me,'[13] replied a gentleman upon being requested
to define a highly complex idea. Now some large concepts defy explicit
definition; but no mind should take refuge behind such exceptions, for
where definition fails, other forms succeed.

Sometimes we feel confident that we have perfect mastery of an idea,
but when the time comes to express it, the clearness becomes a haze.
Exposition, then, is the test of clear understanding. To speak effectively
you must be able to see your subject clearly and comprehensively,
and to make your audience see it as you do."[14]

There are pitfalls
on both sides of this path.

To
explain too little will leave your audience in doubt as to what you mean.
It is useless to argue a question if it is not perfectly clear just
what is meant by the question. Have you never come to a blind lane in
conversation by finding that you were talking of one aspect of a
matter while your friend was thinking of another? If two do not agree in their
definitions of a Musician, it is useless to dispute over a certain man's
right to claim the title.

On the other side of the path lies the
abyss of tediously explaining too much. That offends because it impresses
the hearers that you either do not respect their intelligence or are
trying to blow a breeze into a tornado. Carefully estimate the probable
knowledge of your audience, both in general and of the particular
point you are explaining. In trying to simplify, it is fatal to "sillify."
To explain more than is needed for the purposes of your argument or
appeal is to waste energy all around. In your efforts to be explicit
do not press exposition to the extent of dulness--the confines are
not far distant and you may arrive before you know it.

Some Purposes
of Exposition

From what has been said it ought to be clear that,
primarily, exposition weaves a cord of understanding between you and
your audience. It lays, furthermore, a foundation of fact on which
to build later statements, arguments, and appeals. In scientific and
purely "information" speeches exposition may exist by itself and for
itself, as in a lecture on biology, or on psychology; but in the vast
majority of cases it is used to accompany and prepare the way for
the other forms of discourse.

Clearness, precision, accuracy, unity,
truth, and necessity--these must be the constant standards by which
you test the efficiency of your expositions, and, indeed, that of
every explanatory statement. This dictum should be written on your
brain in letters most plain. And let this apply not alone to the purposes
of exposition but in equal measure to your use of the

Methods of
Exposition

The various ways along which a speaker may proceed in
exposition are likely to touch each other now and then, and even when
they do not meet and actually overlap they run so nearly parallel
that the roads are sometimes distinct rather in theory than in any
more practical respect.

=Definition=, the primary expository method,
is a statement of precise limits.[15] Obviously, here the greatest
care must be exercised that the terms of definition should not themselves
demand too much definition; that the language should be concise and
clear; and that the definition should neither exclude nor include
too much. The following is a simple example:

To expound is to set
forth the nature, the significance, the characteristics, and the bearing
of an idea or a group of ideas.

--ARLO BATES, Talks on Writing English.

=Contrast
and Antithesis= are often used effectively to amplify definition,
as in this sentence, which immediately follows the above-cited definition:

Exposition
therefore differs from Description in that it deals directly with
the meaning or intent of its subject instead of with its appearance.

It is only too true, and heard from the lips of thousands, that if they "could only lie down
and never awake, what a blessing it would be." We speak in terms of "having lived too long,"
"being tired of living," "life not worth living," etc., as if life were a prison sentence,
and, often, rather than continue the servitude, we surmount and overcome the deterrent of pain
and destroy the life.

Very often our desire to keep on living is prompted by our baser impulses. We "live" sometimes
to "get even" with someone--to spite someone. We "live" sometimes to be able to "show" what
we can or cannot do. Were it not for these baser impulses, what an unlimited number of people
would refuse to continue this monotonous, painful and non-paying life!

The foregoing expressions of life, at one time or another, represent the feelings of all humanity.
In the United States alone during the year 1920 it has been conservatively estimated that more
than twelve thousand persons committed suicide. These persons were engaged in all kinds of
pursuits and came from ALL walks of life. They ranged from social outcasts to society leaders;
from poverty stricken unfortunates to persons of great wealth; from illiterate men and women
to editors and college professors; from laborers and layman to physicians and ministers. The
youngest suicide was a mere infant of five years, the oldest, a centenarian of 106! Among the
suicides of last year were two evangelists and twelve clergymen. It would appear that those
who had devoted their thoughts and services to God would at least be spared the agony of such
suffering as to force them to prefer death and to take their lives. I say with Ingersoll, it
is a wonder God does not at least protect his friends and defenders.

The reluctance we have to die is due in a large degree to the possibility of securing a few
more moments of joy from an already too much troubled world, with the hope that a little compensation
will be derived from the pain and sorrow we have endured.

And yet those things that we may live to enjoy to-day and to-morrow may likewise be present
to thrill us at some future date, away and beyond the limitation we are capable of surviving.
It is from this desire that we unconsciously "feel" that we would like to "live" always, to
get our full measure of return; and since such is neither the lot nor the privilege of our
possession, it really makes no difference when we die as far as personal satisfaction is concerned.

The fear that possesses us now in the matter of death will likewise and with equal force possess
us later, when we actually and without ceremony must submit to the inevitable.

The desire that possesses a person to live now will, with equal attraction, obsess him later.

Our desires and aspirations are never satisfied. What we may cherish to accomplish to-day may
be consummated and achieved, yet to-morrow another something will demand our energies to be
spent for further desires to be accomplished.

When we are babies we desire to walk; when we walk, we desire to talk; when we talk, we desire
to grow; after we grow, we want to learn; after we learn, we want to do and to expand--and
our performance and expansion are only curtailed by insolent death!

IX

The only justification there is to live, once conscious of the damnable scheme of life, is
the burning desire to do something to help mankind bear the conditions and to make easier the
burden of life for those who are here and for those who are to come; for very often the greatest
benefactors of the race are so maligned and persecuted in their day that only the future can
render a just appreciation of their labor and their value.

For without the improvement bestowed on life by the world's benefactors, over the crudity of
Nature, it were better that we remain in the bosom of our wilder brothers, and hang from the
trees by the length and the strength of our tails. Aye, back and back and back, down every
degree of life until the time before the first cell of protoplasm from an inanimate into an
animate state started.

Why must we be made to suffer such dreadful torment before death, since by eternal decree it
is the common lot all must endure?

Death, puzzling, eternal death, is Nature's final stamp upon our fearful struggle through life.

And the agony of death is more poignantly mental than physical, since the mind, reviewing the
acts of the past, anticipates with anxiety and with picturesque vividness the wrongs, scandals,
terrors, fears and injustice of the future.

Since life is so replete with physical pains, no wonder our picture of death is so horrible.

We see upon the lifeless form the cast of its agonizing pain, and augur from that an eternity
of sorrow. But fortunately, in reality we can only feel pain as long as we possess "life."
In a sense, therefore, death is a blessing.

After all, the severest pains of death lie in the brains of the living. The mind is capable
of suffering in one moment all that a lifetime can repay with pleasure, and no joy is sufficient
in value to compensate you for enduring an irreparable loss.

The conditions that existed before our birth are identical with the conditions that will exist
at our death. As we knew no life and felt no pain before our birth, we shall know no life and
feel no pain after our death.

Death is no longer the enigma of life. Living is its problem. The sting of death has been removed.
We know death's destiny, and no longer fear its consequences. The only suffering attached to
death now is the injustice of its time of coming, the reluctance of parting with loved ones,
and the loss of the opportunity to attain.

The most despicable characters of human life are those who prey upon credulous persons when
in the face of death and shrouded with the fear of its uncertainty, picturing to those persons
horrible and frightening tales of an eternity of torture.

What unspeakable misery must those whose religious conviction has so terrified death and its
aftermath, especially when it is intensified and horrified through the mouthpiece of ignorant
priests, suffer in consequence of death.

Oh, what a fearful sting must be there!

Just think what this poor, vast, credulous multitude pay, with the sweat of their brows and
the bend of their backs, to enrich these moral beasts in exchange for their ignorant and terrifying
mumblings, that rob the deluded ones of every fiber of courage and every thought of perfect
peace and rest.

It is while living that death possesses its sting and anguish. Anyone that seeks tribute from
the dying, or from the living for services on behalf of the dead, is a damnable moral scoundrel
and a cunning rascal.

To those whose minds have been poisoned from childhood with this religious conviction, this
most awful of beliefs, I cry: "Throw off these tyrants of the mind. Emancipate yourselves from
this fearful ignorance and mental bondage!" What a burden will be lifted from their lives and
what a glorious freedom they will experience!

If we are to die, let us die in perfect calmness and in perfect peace. Let us become firmly
convinced that, once we are dead, no thought, no act, can possibly harm us. We are beyond the
pale of Nature's pangs. We, the individuals that we were, are free from everything. We are
at rest, and forever.

X

But after this life with all our pains and sorrows, what then? What is there to repay us for
living?

I answer:

Nothing!

I have no misgivings about the "future." I am firmly convinced that there is no "after life,"
that when we "breathe our last" we arrive at our eternity. We are "one with yesterday's seven
thousand years." We are like the flower which, "once blown, forever dies."

I firmly believe that life as now manifested in our bodies is a combustible force identical
with that of any other form of life. No less so than the "seed" of the flower is different
from the "germ" of the wheat.

Both are forces!

So are we!

They may be different manifestations, but fundamentally they are the same.

In fact, the very force that manifests itself in a mechanical instrument made by man is the
identical substance that rules the organs, and charges the brain of our being. In the same
manner that the force dissipates itself in the mechanical instrument made by man, and no longer
gives motion to its parts, so the force that animates our being dissipates itself and is no
longer capable of giving motion to our parts and organs.

As man's instruments are dependent upon many channels for their complete performance, so the
human brain and body have their many dependencies that must fully and properly be nourished
to maintain their power.

Each day science draws another veil from the mystery of life.

Our eye is but a chemical camera, that we have not only reproduced, but even improved upon.

Our voice is nothing but a vibration, that we have not only reproduced and improved upon, but
whose minutest modulations we have recorded in innumerable duplications.

Our ear is but a drum, that carries and conveys to the brain the vibrations of our voice, and
that function we have reproduced and even improved upon by the instrument we call the telephone.

The telegraphic system of the human body that communicates to the brain the conditions that
the senses perceive, is no other than that which man has even improved upon by the transmission
of an intelligible message to a far-distant land without the use of any apparent conductor.
With the marvelous instrument, the telephone, man sends his voice around the world.

Man's greatest inventions, the phonograph, the camera and the telephone, both wire and wireless,
make the work of Nature, as manifested in our bodies, a simple, childish affair, fit only for
the kindergarten of things.

When Edison invented the incandescent light and reproduced the human voice in the phonograph
he pulled aside the veil of secrecy and penetrated the infinite.

He proved and demonstrated man to be greater than God.

Our limbs carry our bodies in the direction our brains dictate, and that function we have reproduced
and even improved upon in all the means of locomotion that we daily use and which we now consider
as a "matter of fact" among the ordinary things of life. "Comparisons are odious" when we compare
the awkward motion of Nature with the rapid locomotion of man.

Man progresses far too rapidly for the accommodation of Nature, and as a result adapts for
his use and benefit vital essentials that Nature in her laziness has either failed to utilize,
or will not utilize.

Although we have not yet completely discovered all the material and mechanical elements that
compose life, we are sure and certain of their origin.

We hear ourselves talk; we decide upon our destination and direct our motion; we eat when we
are hungry; sleep when we are tired; cry when we are in pain; and laugh when we are tickled.
Our whole being from start to finish is mechanical, and the element of something "spiritual,"
something separate and distinct from a purely material sense, is absolutely illogical and ill-founded
in view of the illimitable illustrations that are being demonstrated every day.

It is a thing easily understood, if we logically, and intelligently, without blindness, preference
or prejudice, analyze the problem.

It may sound better and more desirable to say that we possess a "soul"--that this life is but
a "stepping stone to a higher plane"--but it is not true.

We cannot observe the true, actual facts of life by coloring our subject. If we want to determine
the truth we must be mentally prepared to accept the truth.

A painted face, brightened eyes, blackened eyelids, Marcelled hair, and a form draped in all
the splendor of the finest silks do not make a woman possess the sweetness and charm that all
this "dope" is intended to make us believe.

As much as man wants to have the end of this life attain certain benefits and destinations,
this desire does not make them real.

The implicit confidence in a faithless wife does not make her loyal and virtuous. A wife's
confidence in a profligate husband does not make him stanch and true.

Life calls for a cold analysis. It must be stripped of all its artificial colorings and superfluities.
It must be measured and weighed for what it actually is, not for what we would like it to be.
It must be determined in the unwavering scales of science.

The proper study of mankind is not the man in the white starched collar, with trimmed hair,
shaven face and polished shoes, but the man recently from the forest, with coarse, grizzly
hair upon his back, brutal and violent passion dominating his body, and savageness and hatred
in his startled and terrifying eyes.

The sooner we come to the realization of this vital fact, the sooner we become acquainted with
the basic origin of life, the sooner we shall understand life, with its achievements, with
its aspirations and hopes.

XI

It is an absolute fact and certainty, impossible of refutation, that when animation ceases
in the body and no effort is made to revive it, life ceases and the processes of decay and
decomposition set in.

Yet it is permanently established and has been successfully demonstrated innumerable times,
that certain methods of artificial stimulation have revivified and resuscitated the delicate
organs that cause the heartbeat and give consciousness to the brain.

Recently my local newspaper contained the following item:

     "DEAD" BUT SAW NO SPIRITS

     Oklahoma City, Okla., February 7th--Neal Dillingham doesn't
     believe in after-death communication with the living. Dillingham
     was "dead" for twenty minutes recently, and he says he ought to
     know.

     Doctors said Dillingham's blood circulation was stopped by a clot
     of blood. His heart stopped beating, and he did not breathe.

     Insertion of a saline solution into his artery just above the
     heart caused the clot to dissolve, and Dillingham came back to
     life.

     "I did not return to earth after I left it," said Dillingham. "I
     had no knowledge of anything that took place, but I must have been
     pretty dead, as I do know I didn't recognize several persons I had
     known all my life, after I was myself again. If I had any talks
     with anybody while I was 'dead' I don't remember anything about
     them."

Believing that the publicity that this case received would make the party known to the postal
authorities, I sat down and wrote him a letter, hoping that, if fortunate enough to have a
letter delivered to him, he might be kind enough to write me personally of his experience.

After a lapse of several days I received from him a letter substantiating in detail all that
was mentioned in the newspaper clipping quoted above.

In the instance of this man Dillingham, he was "dead," so to speak, and as far as his "soul"
was concerned it had "left" the body; yet the injection of a material solution, compounded
by man, in conjunction with artificial respiration, caused the beating of the heart and gave
back to the brain its power of consciousness.

If it is the "soul" that causes the functioning of the body, where is it when such an action
takes place?

If it is the "soul" that gives us "life," how is it that we can materially and mechanically
destroy it?

We are born and nourished by material means.

We live our life by material means.

We reproduce our kind by material means.

And we can destroy ourselves by material means.

Everything that touches and concerns our life is purely material, and it should be incumbent
upon those who believe in the "Soul" or the "Spiritual Element" of man to produce the proof
of their contention.

We are nothing but a continual propagating instrument, without spiritual, moral, lasting or
ultimate value. We are here to reproduce our kind and for nothing more. What man secures for
himself within the narrow circle of his existence here is all that he gains for the life that
Nature forces him to live.

Everything man has, man has made. Nothing has been given to him by Nature. God has been a miser!

If man possessed a "soul" the thousand deformities of the brain would not exist. Insanity would
be impossible, and all the forms of petty vices that so miserably afflict us would be totally
unknown.

That which gives us the power of life is a combination of the material forces of Nature, and
the elements that compose the brain are of a chemical substance. The difference between a "live"
person and a "dead" one can be summarized by a great many instances about us, and because of
their commonplaceness, we do not observe them.

There are many apples falling to the ground, but we are not inspired with the knowledge that
the actuating force is gravity.

One of the best illustrations, to show the difference between a "live" and a "dead" person,
can be had from that excellent invention called the "film" or "plate," and which is so remarkably
used in the camera.

When that sensitive composition of chemicals that forms the "film" and which produces such
a vivid and lasting likeness of ourselves is freshly made, it possesses that vital something
we call "life."

But allow this film to remain unused for a period of time, and it will no longer be able to
perform its remarkable work. It will not possess the "life" to take a picture or to record
an impression.

If a premature "exposure" of the film is made, it loses its vital quality because of the mixture
with other elements, or because of the evaporation of its constituent parts.

It is not necessary to analyze all the properties of that film to show the principle whereby
it performs its wonderful work. The general principle, showing its marvelous use while intact
and its utter uselessness when its composition is no longer the same, should be sufficient
to illustrate the comparison.

This illustration can with force and conviction be applied to the peculiar quality and nature
of our "soul" and brain. As long as the brain is incased within our skull, and fully protected
from contact with any other substance to alter or to change its integrity, it will perform
all that is warranted of it. In the case of our brain, though, besides the importance of keeping
it protected from outside chemical action, the vital element concerned in its continuity of
life lies in the importance of keeping it constantly nourished and supplied with the remarkable
qualities of the vital substance of blood.

The moment the blood supply to the brain is stopped, our brain loses its most important constituent,
with the ultimate and inevitable result of inertia, decomposition and decay. When this condition
happens we are then "dead" and, like the proverbial egg, "all the King's horses and all the
King's men cannot put Humpty Dumpty together again."

If we possessed a soul, and it were of a permanent and special quality, it would maintain its
impressions and remember its existence.

It could pass through innumerable periods and know its many and varied journeys.

Even memory, so unreliable in our short life, bespeaks the utter impossibility of such a thing
as a soul with a permanent and lasting existence.

That which we call the "soul" is nothing but a chemical composition, that can and does lose
its permanency while we are still alive.

We are acquainted with a number of chemical compositions that must remain in a pacific state
to maintain their identity, so those chemical forces that compose our "soul" must perforce
maintain their equilibrium.

If we are stunned, or suffer any of the many conditions that upset chemical compounds and compositions,
we, for the time being, suffer either "unconsciousness" or some other form of mental disability.

If we are shocked too severely, we become totally and permanently impaired, and suffer violent
fits and fearful rages, insanity or imbecility.

Different shocks, and even forms of disease, result in certain action upon our chemical brain,
which causes it to lose only part of its ability. Extreme high fever is only one form of illness
which causes the brain to lose its stability and run rampant and unbridled.

If I were fully cognizant of all forms and degrees of disease, I could recite exactly how they
act and in what degree they harm the delicate organism of our brain. In many instances shocks
or diseases too powerful for our brain to withstand, cause that portion of our brain that may
control our speech, our sight, our hearing, our limbs or other organs to lose its power, with
the consequence that we must suffer and be handicapped with what is properly called "a great
affliction."

Science to-day has discovered that great truth, and has not only catalogued the different portions
of the brain in their individual departments or capacities, but, by a master stroke of surgery,
can correct and remedy those impaired parts, and give back to the human being the use of those
valuable organs that the invisible agents of Nature had taken away.

So, instead of the brain's possessing a "soul," we find it, only in a more delicate degree,
a mechanical formation such as we discovered our body to be.

But if we possess a soul and it is capable of passing through the many and varied stages that
life suffers, what becomes of its impressions? What and where are the benefits of its retention?

Where is the soul when we are in a state of unconsciousness? Surely, if the soul were ever
present to guard and maintain life, it would be standing by and using its power when it is
most needed. We have no occasion for help when we are not in danger. It is when power can be
used and exercised that it should be manifested.

Even love, the great compelling force of our life, is subject to the variations of our chemical
"soul," its attractions and repulsions.

If two form the unit of reproduction, and love is the great mating medium of Nature, then once
it is animated, once it is brought into existence, it should endure permanently, and the possessors
should at least enjoy their blissful companionship until the end. But no. Nature would entice,
and then destroy, this most consuming feeling of life.

Two persons can start life with the most irresistible attraction and irrepressible love and
within a very short time, unless they guard their love with every means and weapon of advanced
thought and reason, Nature, through her duplicity, will provide searching eyes to alienate
their affection, causing a wretchedness unparalleled in the mental miseries of mankind's life.

The saddest state of all is when two persons, with the sacred devotion of love, cohabit and
the happy result is loving children, and yet while this happy family, free from Nature's pitfalls
and snares, are living in a peaceful and blissful state, there exists the ever-menacing "devil"
who tempts the loving wife and mother to follow the will-o'-the-wisp--and thereby undoes and
destroys the greatest kingdom of life.

The devoted husband and father, by the flash of an eye, and the charm of a face, can forsake
his sacred ties of devotion and become a degenerate and outcast, with death as his only salvation.
In either case Nature stands by with a sneer upon her lips, and God forgets his obligation
to his children. But the final analysis proves beyond doubt that the physical attraction is
responsible for this action; and who can deny that it is the chemical attraction of two forces
that produced this irresistible desire?

XII

If the life we live be a kindergarten or infancy of a larger and better life somewhere else,
Nature defeats her own ends, because myriads pass on, leave here, with the most dwarfed intellects,
utterly unprepared to live here, and much less prepared to live in a higher state and on a
more lofty plane.

Were such a condition true, that this is but a transitory existence, we should all have to
go through the same schooling of life, and be indelibly impressed with its lesson, with conviction
and understanding that the same mistakes would never be repeated, or the acquired knowledge
would be constantly and forever used.

There would be no deaths in infancy, as each child born would be purposely sent here; neither
would there be premature deaths, as no one could leave without "learning his lesson."

There would be a fixed standard of knowledge and development that we would be required to attain.
Knowledge, or whatever condition Nature imposed, would be our destiny, and we would devote
our entire life to its acquirement.

As it is, we bend our efforts and use our strength to avoid and to escape the acquisition of
knowledge.

If our life were given to us in order to pass through a school of experience, the simplest
truths would immediately manifest themselves to our minds, and conviction would be instant
and permanent.

But how sadly untrue is this premise!

For thousands, aye, for millions of years, the people have been stupefied with the most ignorant
and foolish superstition. An instance that will present with great force an illustration of
the utter folly of the contention that we are living on this planet as a lesson in school,
lies in the fact that for thousands of years people not only believed but religiously guarded
the belief that the earth was flat.

Even to-day, with irrefutable demonstrations of the truth, there are some people who either
cannot, or will not, accept it.

As desirable as this theory of a transitory state may be, it is even contrary to Nature herself.
The entire scheme of Nature seems to be fashioned upon the same principle as our life. The
fearful struggle of the elements involved squares identically with our own existence. Even
the gigantic constellations, flying with an incalculable velocity, leaving destruction and
desolation in their tracks, meet in their ignorant and blind journey the same fate as we meet.
Recent astronomical discoveries speak of a struggle constantly taking place in those areas.

The belief of an existence after death is so untenable in the face of many scientific discoveries
of to-day, and of the irrefutable facts that are constantly staring us in the face, that an
instance or two are all that are necessary to prove the fallacy of such a belief.

Under many circumstances we are unable to recognize our own blood relations after a lapse of
a certain length of time. Parents fail to know their children; and children their parents.
This is equally true in every comparison and degree of relationship. Features and characteristics
undergo such a decided change and transformation that recognition is ofttimes even impossible.
Even the law courts are continually called upon to determine the proper identity of persons,
to establish the ownership of property by other means than by personal identification. Most
remarkable of all, under new conditions, we do not recognize ourselves within the interval
of only a few seconds!

Try this if you would seek proof, and convince yourself that recognition of your own personality
is momentarily impossible, and that you must resort to other senses than that of sight to identify
yourself.

Put a wig upon your head, blacken your face, "make up" your features, and when you have finished
and are completely unaware of your changed appearance, look into the mirror for your reflection
and feel the sensation of the startling fact that you know not yourself.

We speak of changes so radical in a person's appearance that we often say we could not recognize
him "in a thousand years."

What a ridiculous presumption it is, then, to maintain that we live after death when all senses
are gone and perception is dead!

Again, how anyone can say that when we die we go to "heaven" is too childish to consider, because
when we die, instead of going up and to heaven, we are put deep into the ground to moulder
and to rot away.

What a far-fetched conclusion it is to assume that we live after death, minus all the physical
characteristics and under conditions utterly incomprehensible to our minds! Even if, at death,
the body turned into invisible gases it would mean and prove absolutely nothing.

If we live after death, by what means can one person communicate with another?

We cannot feel, because we have no hands.

We cannot see, because we have no eyes.

We cannot smell, because we have no nose.

We cannot hear, because we have no ears.

We cannot taste, because we have no mouth, no stomach.

But, with it all, these five mediums of sense are dependent upon a living brain.

The fact that we suffer the loss of our senses even before death, because of the complications
in the make-up of our body, should be sufficient proof of the nonexistence of a soul and the
utter impossibility of a life after death.

Unless we retain and maintain our sacred ties after death, another life is valueless and void,
useless and unnecessary. It is a fearful sadness to think that the ones you love are to pass
away into nothingness and be no more; that the sparkling eyes will be dim forever; that the
rosy cheeks will no longer glow with radiant health; that the ruby lips will fade into a deathly
blue, motionless and forever still; that dimpled hands and loving arms will never encircle
you again, and the supremacy and tenderness of your love must be crushed with a cold and callous
ferocity.

But, sad and mournful as it is, with the human heart beating hopelessly against hope for only
one more chance to kiss and caress and love the one you so dearly cherish, it is nevertheless
only too poignantly true that death ends all.

Death means nothing to the affairs of the world.

To be taken from amid the world in such an ever-living condition as now exists, is like taking
a cup of water from an ever-full pail. The gap is immediately filled, and the level of the
water simultaneously adjusted, leaving absolutely no trace of what has been withdrawn. Only
the individual suffers. What a mighty burst of heart there would be if we all could feel and
suffer at the same time!

Nature makes no difference and knows no distinction between the living and the dead. The warm
and tender rays of the sun, and its blistering heat, fall alike upon the crying, innocent babe
and the lifeless, unfeeling corpse.

The sun does not shine to give us its necessary heat, without also bringing to light some new
problem and pain for our over-troubled hearts to bear.

Murder, rape and greed look no different to Nature than goodness, virtue and unselfishness.

Tears were made for the things that God causes, laughter is the result of man's efforts.

XIII

It is man's labor, man's work, man's achievement, that gives us the little desire that we have
to live. How often do we prefer death to living life in our former condition, after our efforts
have brought us to a point of vantage and comfort!

Death is always preferable to the living of a "dog's life!" And yet, with it all, the little
improvement we have to-day, with the still remaining cruel conditions of Nature left to endure
and fight, has not been worth the struggle through the black and bleak past. The price has
been entirely too severe for the little that has been gained.

God gives man nothing; man gives man everything!

What sublime courage it was that made the pathfinders of the past sacrifice their lives, in
order that their principles of truth might triumph, so that another link might be made in the
chain of progress that is endeavoring to break the spell of a tyrant power.

You must be made to know that for whatever desirable condition we have to-day we are indebted
to heroic men and women of the past, who, in the days of infant progress, achieved a moral,
physical and intellectual triumph.

The chair you sit on, the cup you drink from, the fork you eat with, the light you read by,
the bed you sleep in, the heat that warms you, the shoes on your feet, the clothes upon your
back, the hat upon your head, and every part and particle of improvement that has enriched
the world with a little touch of human comfort are the result of the heroic labors of the men
and women of the past, who victoriously fought the accursed and chaotic forces of Nature, so
as to make life and living a little better.

But at every step and stage of progress the dogmatists have exerted their influence toward
retardation. What these dogmatists were unable to accomplish through fear and suppression,
they accomplished through ostracism, and death. Human advancement and progress are foreign
to the "believing" mind. The dogmatists are concerned only with the "supernatural." They want
not the comforts of life here if they can secure those benefits "hereafter."

It is the attitude of the religious to belittle anything that is designed for human betterment.
Their philosophy is, the more you suffer here, the less you will suffer "hereafter." Their
humility to and fear of this "unseen" power is the most degrading trait in human beings. It
is a frame of mind not only despicable and a hindrance in the face of progress, but even antagonistic
to and destructive of all things worth while.

To them, the insanity of belief is of paramount importance, and is more sacred and holy than
human life. Aye, human life has been so subordinated to this superstitious belief that it meant
death in the past to those who rejected it.

Rather observe some "holy day" than perform "work" to help some fellow human being in distress.
Murder, rather than eat meat on a "forbidden day"! This frame of mind is one of the mental
mysteries that science has yet to solve.

XIV

The rotundity of the earth was discussed and its circumference scientifically measured hundreds
of years before the supposed birth of Christ, and had not the "God believers" been so persistent
in forcing their belief upon others, and had not Christianity been born, I can see how the
discovery of America would have been accomplished about a thousand years before the discovery
by Columbus; and the incalculable progress which would have been the consequence would have
carried mankind beyond the boldest imagination of to-day, and placed us a thousand years nearer
civilization. 

There are apparent exceptions to the rule, of which the most conspicuous is the admission of evidence
to show that words were used in a special meaning current in the place or trade in question. But
they are reducible, it will be found, to applications (perhaps over-subtle in some cases) of
the still more general principles that, before giving legal force
to a document, we must know that it is really what it purports to
be, and that when we do give effect to it according to its terms we
must be sure of what its terms really say.

The rules of evidence here spoken of are modern, and have nothing to do with the archaic rule already
mentioned as to the effect of a deed.

Performance.

Every contracting party is bound to perform his promise according to its terms, and in case of any
doubt in the sense in which the other party would reasonably understand the promise. Where the
performance on one or both sides extends over an appreciable time, continuously or by instalments, questions
may arise as to the right of either party to refuse or suspend further performance on the ground
of some default on the other side. Attempts to lay down hard and fast rules
on such questions are now discouraged, the aim of the courts being
to give effect to the true substance and intent of the contract in
every case. Nor will the court hold one part of the terms deliberately
agreed to more or less material than another in modern business dealings.


To those who have no thought for these things, who care not what forces and conditions man
must face, who take without thought and give only through compulsion, whose self-satisfied
condition (made possible only by the heroic work of the martyrs of progress) make of them personal
heroes, whose life is wrapped within the flicker of a day, who do not know, do not realize,
and do not care about the fearful suffering of the world--I say to them to strut their intoxicated
hour and pass away. The sooner they live their lives and the sooner they die, the better for
the earth. It needs fertilization.

Were we as mentally progressive as we are materially advanced, what a wonderful and magnificent
improvement over the present living conditions we would be enjoying! Every new invention, every
new improvement, would be immediately and universally installed, and every old and antiquated
instrument and method would be discarded and destroyed. That which now seems only within the
command of the households of the immensely wealthy, would be as popularly used and enjoyed
as the now commonly used articles in the poorest households.

Think of existing to-day in a predominant percentage of dwellings for human beings where there
is not found the essential bathtub, or the still more essential toilet room!

Governments are instituted for the people's benefit, and shame upon such a government, in an
enlightened age like to-day, that tolerates such a condition, when that government possesses
the men, the means, the intellect and the materials to electrify the world!

The first and foremost essential in higher development is the comfort and conveniences in a home.

These are some of the conditions that the progressive minds of the world are trying to solve
and remedy. It is only a question of how much longer the majority of people will pay homage
to an imaginary God for imaginary benefits in an imaginary life after death.

XV

It is the antagonism of the dogmatic world, and the apathy of the rest, that is the cause of
the mental progress of the world's not keeping pace with the material progress.

Better still, the universal application of the material progress has been far in advance of
the universal acceptance of mental achievement. The automobile, the gigantic ocean liner, the
talking machine, the electric fan, the elevator, the telephone and the other marvelous achievements
of man are being used by the greater portion of the people, whose mental status belongs to
the wheelbarrow, the simple chair, the ox cart and the tallow candle.

Slight is the realization by the users and beneficiaries of science's modern methods, of the
heroic struggles and battles that the great men and women of the past suffered to make possible
these accomplishments.

Oh, how many suffered torture and death at the hands of the very people they were striving
to benefit!

This same fate has been met by all the brave and courageous, during the past, who have made
any attempt to broaden the life and to ease the pain of the troubled heart of humanity.

The unselfish endeavors of man have made it possible to take the dumb matter of earth and mold
it so the voices of the present can be heard by the ears of the future; so that several generations
may hear and know, with a touch of human affection, the traits, features and characteristics
of their ancestors. Language gives us their thoughts, the camera gives us their natural, life-like
features and the phonograph their actual, living voices!

Nature never did so much. As far as Nature is concerned, bastardy may rule the world!

One of the comforts of life is that we live again in actions and scenes, which, although they
are apart from our own lives, really belong to the past or future races. But Nature sees to
it that the births and deaths, the knowledge and acquaintance of each and every generation,
are so closely allied that none of us is allowed to escape the suffering of the world and the
agony of life and death. No person can avoid the pain and the terrible fear that all must endure.

No one person can live, move about and possess the varied improvements of the earth's materials
all by himself. He is indebted to others for their accomplishments, and they in turn are indebted
to him for the improvements he renders. In short, we are all so closely allied with the actions
and lives of one another that there should be a mutual appreciation and a common understanding
among all.

The farmer may know nothing about manufacturing; the manufacturer may know nothing about farming;
the artist, the explorer, the thinker, the inventor and the scientist may know nothing about
any field of endeavor other than his own, yet all are inter-dependent.

With such a condition existing, and with the uncertainty of life forever staring us in the
face, and no one exempt from its terrible enactment, it is a marvelous wonder to me why there
exist so tenaciously in the human heart all the petty and aggravating tempers, prejudices and
jealousies.

What man has done with the forces of Nature are inspiring deeds. What progress has been made
in opposing the forces of Nature is marvelous. What man will accomplish in the future with
the arrogant forces of Nature stimulates our hearts with the sweet satisfaction of a victory
of the first magnitude.

But in the final analysis, what does it avail us?

Geologists tell us that the greater portion of the materials that we have taken from the field
of Nature consists of the buried bones and bodies of our ancient ancestors, who passed through
greater periods of agony, torment, disease and death than we are finally and eventually to meet!

What sort of crust in the earth's formation are we to make? What will be the product of the
future living forces that will utilize the materials that our bodies will make? What will be
the future living forces?

It is fearfully sad to contemplate that life must continue and be subject to the miserable
laws that now govern it.

Insect man, with his almost tireless industry, makes clothes to cover his ugly and awkward
body; builds houses to shelter him from the winds and the torrents of Nature; fashions glittering
palaces of amusement to cheer his troubled heart; compounds anæsthetics to ease his pain; carves
wood to replace his broken limbs; molds metal to take the place of those things that Nature
has made inadequate for his use. In short, man has improved upon Nature to uphold his frail
body, to strengthen his weak bones, and to soothe his tender heart.

That man, fighting the forces of Nature, has been able to accomplish so much is simply glorious,
and this progress is an achievement of such wonderful magnitude that we are thrilled at the
thought, and bow in grateful recognition for the benefits derived and the relief enjoyed.

But why did not God institute all the benefits for the immediate use of man, so they could
be enjoyed upon the first manifestation of his understanding?

Why was it necessary to go through the fearful period of past history and gain, only after
a most gigantic struggle, the few things that we now use for our comfort?

That these things could have been done is proved by the fact that man has done them. Fundamentally
they always existed. Man has only discovered and applied them. And these things that we have
gained to-day, from the struggles of the past, would have been equally enjoyed by those who
lived before us, with the same degree of benefit, just as the future will find, use and enjoy
those things that we do not possess, and without which we shall be pinched, and pained, through
the helter-skelter of this troublesome life.

I brand as brutal tyranny this scheme of life, that forces us to be a link in a long series
of lives to produce something for the benefit of the far-distant future, that we, ourselves,
imperatively need but shall not possess. 

Every spear casts a long shadow, every ox has crooked horns, and every woman a high bosom, though
these particulars may be quite beside the purpose. In our old ballads a similar practice prevails.
The gold is always red, and the ladies always gay, though nothing
whatever may depend on the hue of the gold, or the temper of the
ladies.

But these adjectives are mere customary additions. They merge in the
substantives to which they are attached. If they at all colour the
idea, it is with a tinge so slight as in no respect to alter the
general effect.

In the passage which we have quoted from Dryden the case is very different. "Preciously" and "aromatic"
divert our whole attention to themselves, and dissolve the image
of the battle in a moment.

The whole poem reminds us of Lucan, and of the worst parts of Lucan,--the sea-fight in the Bay
of Marseilles, for example.

The description of the two fleets during the night is perhaps the only passage which ought to
be exempted from this censure.

If it was from the Annus Mirabilis that Milton formed his opinion, when he pronounced Dryden a good
rhymer but no poet, he certainly judged correctly.

But Dryden was, as we have said, one of those writers in whom the period of imagination does
not precede, but follow, the period of observation and reflection.

His plays, his rhyming plays in particular, are admirable subjects for
those who wish to study the morbid anatomy of the drama. He was utterly
destitute of the power of exhibiting real human beings. Even in the
far inferior talent of composing characters out of those elements
into which the imperfect process of our reason can resolve them, he
was very deficient.

His men are not even good personifications; they are not well-assorted
assemblages of qualities.

Now and then, indeed, he seizes a very coarse and marked distinction, and gives us, not a likeness,
but a strong caricature, in which a single peculiarity is protruded,
and everything else neglected; like the Marquis of Granby at an inn-door,
whom we know by nothing but his baldness; or Wilkes, who is Wilkes
only in his squint.

Let us cleanse our minds of this superstitious poison of an "after life," and work and labor
for the good and welfare of Here and Now.

We possess the knowledge and the means and, within the span of only one day, could bring about
the much-longed-for "Brotherhood of Man."

We could eliminate hatred from our hearts, and instill Justice as our guide. We could eradicate
poverty from our midst and bring happiness to sorrowing mankind. We could blot out tyranny
among men and exchange it for the priceless legacy of freedom and make the relation between
man and man bear some semblance of humanity.

But--and I say this with redoubled conviction, and with all the power, force, energy and vehemence
that I possess--if we are Nature's best endeavor, if man is Nature's best product, if the Natural
world is incapable of any improvement, and life will forever be made to submit to the tyrannical
conditions of Nature, then it were better ten thousand times over, that life were never called
into existence, and that the universe were null and void!

THE END

EDISON LETTER TO JOSEPH LEWIS

       *       *       *       *       *

    From the Laboratory of Thomas A. Edison, Orange, N.J.

     August 18, 1921.

     Mr. Joseph Lewis, c/o The Truth Publishing Co., 1400 Broadway, New
     York City.

     Dear Sir:--

     I received your book--"The Tyranny of God"--and have read it
     through. I think as you do that death ends all, yet I do not feel
     certain, because there are many facts that seem to show that the
     real units of life are not the animal mechanism itself, but groups
     of millions of small entities living in the visible cells. The
     animal being their mechanism for navigating the environment, and
     when the mechanism fails to function, i.e. die, the groups go out
     into space to go thru another cycle. Therefore it is either incapable
     of being substantiated or else makes nothing for the truth of Christianity.

(39)

The resurrection
     of Christ in the flesh and his ascension into heaven were events either
     intrinsically incredible in their nature or not. They appeared in
     the Scientific Monthly for October 30, 1920 and the Cosmopolitan
     for May, 1920.

     Yours very truly,

      Thos A Edison

Famous Inventor Gives Views of Death and Immortality in Correspondence with Author of "The
Tyranny of God."

