Cosmo's warning to them of the necessity of secrecy was superfluous, for the selfishness of
human nature never had a better illustration than they afforded. The lucky recipients of the
invitations stole away without a word of farewell, circumspectly disappearing, generally at
night, and often in disguise; and when the attack occurred on the ark, there were, behind the
portholes, many anxious eyes cautiously staring out and recognizing familiar faces in the mob,
while the owners of those eyes trembled in their shoes lest their friends might succeed in
forcing an entrance. After all, it was to be doubted if Cosmo Versal, with all his vigilance,
had succeeded in collecting a company representing anything above the average quality of the race.

But there was one thing that did great credit to his heart. When he found that he had room
unoccupied, before adding to his lists he consented to take more than two children in a family.
It was an immense relief, for--it must be recorded--there were some who, in order to qualify
themselves, had actually abandoned members of their own families! Let it also be said, however,
that many, when they found that the conditions imposed were inexorable, and that they could
only save themselves by leaving behind others as dear to them as their own lives, indignantly
refused, and most of these did not even reply to the invitations.

It was another indication of Cosmo's real humanity, as well as of his shrewdness, that, as
far as they were known, and could be reached, the persons who had thus remained true to the
best instincts of nature were the first to receive a second invitation, with an injunction
to bring their entire families. So it happened that, after all, there were aged men and women,
as well as children in arms, mingled in that remarkable assemblage.

It will be recalled that thirteen places had been specially reserved, to be filled by Cosmo
Versal's personal friends. His choice of these revealed another pleasing side of his mind.
He took thirteen men and women who had been, in one capacity or another, employed for many
years in his service. Some of them were old family servants that had been in his father's house.

"Every one of these persons," he said to Joseph Smith, "is worth his weight in gold. Their
disinterested fidelity to duty is a type of character that almost became extinct generations
ago, and no more valuable leaven could be introduced into the society of the future. Rather
than leave them, I would stay behind myself."

Finally there was the crew. This comprised one hundred and fifty members, all of them chosen
from the body of engineers, mechanics, and workmen who had been employed in the construction
of the ark. Cosmo himself was, of course, the commander, but he had for his lieutenants skilled
mariners, electrical and mechanical engineers, and men whom he himself had instructed in the
peculiar duties that would fall to them in the navigation and management of the ark, every
detail of which he had laboriously worked out with a foresight that seemed all but superhuman.

All of the passengers and crew were aboard when the baffled mob retreated from Mineola, and
some, when that danger was past, wished to descend to the ground, and go and look at the rising
waters, which had not yet invaded the neighborhood. But Cosmo absolutely forbade any departures
from the ark. The condensation of the nebula, he declared, was likely to begin any minute,
and the downpour would be so fierce that a person might be drowned in the open field.

It came even sooner than he had anticipated, with the results that we have already noted in
New York. At first many thought that the ark itself would be destroyed, so dreadful was the
impact of the falling water. The women and children, and some of the men, were seized with
panic, and Cosmo had great difficulty in reassuring them.

"The flood will not reach us for several hours yet," he said. "The level of the water must
rise at least a hundred feet more before we shall be afloat. Inside here we are perfectly safe.
The ark is exceedingly strong and absolutely tight. You have nothing to fear."

Then he ordered an ingenious sound-absorbing screen, which he had prepared, to be drawn over
the great ceiling of the saloon, the effect of which was to shut out the awful noise of the
water roaring upon the roof of the ark. A silence that was at first startling by contrast to
the preceding din prevailed as soon as the screen was in place.

Amid a hush of expectancy, Cosmo now mounted a dais at one end of the room. Never before had
the intellectual superiority of the man seemed so evident. His huge "dome of thought," surmounting
his slight body, dominated the assembly like the front of Jove. Chairs near him were occupied
by Professor Jeremiah Moses, Professor Abel Able, Professor Alexander Jones, and the two "speculative
geniuses" whom he had named to Joseph Smith. These were Costake Theriade, of Rumania, a tall,
dark, high-browed thinker, who was engaged in devising ways to extract and recover interatomic
energy; and Sir Wilfred Athelstone, whose specialty was bio-chemistry, and who was said to
have produced amazing results in artificial parthenogenesis and the production of new species.

As soon as attention was concentrated upon him, Cosmo Versal began to speak.

"My friends," he said, "the world around us is now sinking beneath a flood that will not be
arrested until America, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia have disappeared. We stand at the
opening of a new age. You alone who are here assembled, and your descendants, will constitute
the population of the new world that is to be. 

The priest admired so much to hear him speak of theology that, mentally, adorned with the hood
behind and head with the cap and tassel.

So great was the activity of Dona Ines, despite so many occupations,
there was still time to satisfy his desire to learn thoroughly contemporary
local history, which had for her more attractive than the Universal
History or remote ages and countries.

For it is local and contemporary history and the facts have on the most
severe criticism is worth Dona Ines different media, the most important
one old maid, who did errands, coming and going everywhere and it was called
Crispina, rival in his favor and privacy of Serafina, the maid. With
Crispina, Dona Ines was aware of the engagements that were in the
village, the quarrels and the loves, friendships and enmities, of
what was spent on clothing in each house, what this was and what he
had as a prize, and even what I ate or spent eating each family.

To those who ate well, Dona Ines's blamed for their gluttony and waste, and those who ate little
and badly, had described these wretched of wolverine and perecientes.
He soon, therefore, Dona Ines news of the hobbies of his father and
his visits or gatherings at the home of both Juanas. Very much bothered
her this gross knavery, how hard the last name, but concealed and
reported during many days, without telling his father.

Dona Ines was very advanced in their hopes on stem eighth, and in this delicate situation was
very careful and tried not altered for any reason, so that those
hopes were not frustrated or twisted ruinmente, performing in a premature
impairment and damage to his health.

But while Dona Ines did not say anything for now Don Paco, it was saved
and kept looking and finding out through Crispina, believing that
it was not Joan and whose father Juanita intended or courting.

This belief not a little alleviated the displeasure of Dona Ines Porge could not enter his head
that his father never tried to remarry with Juana la Larga. So what in this very harshly censured was
immorality and scandal loving relations man who had contracted by more
than half a century and was soon to be grandfather for the eighth
time. The angry too tired commoner status object the loves of his father,
which, if not worthy of applause, would have seemed worthy of apology
to have been with some modest and noble position, as there were two
or three in place, which, he thought Dona Ines had Don Paco open,
if he had knocked on the door asking them entry.



"May I ask," said Professor Abel Able, "in what manner you expect the waters of the flood to
be withdrawn, after the earth is completely drowned?"

"That," was the reply, "was one of the fundamental questions that I examined, but I do not
care to enter into a discussion of it now. I may simply say that it is not only upon the disappearance
of the waters that our hopes depend, but upon circumstances that I shall endeavor to make clear
hereafter. The new cradle of mankind will be located near the old one, and the roses of the
Vale of Cashmere will canopy it."

Cosmo Versal's words made a profound impression upon his hearers, and awoke thoughts that carried
their minds off into strange reveries. No more questions were asked, and gradually the assemblage
broke up into groups of interested talkers.

It was now near midnight. Cosmo, beckoning Professor Abel Able, Professor Alexander Jones,
and Professor Jeremiah Moses to accompany him, made his way out of the saloon, and, secretly
opening one of the gangway doors, they presently stood, sheltering themselves from the pouring
rain, in a position which enabled them to look toward New York.

Nothing, of course, was visible through the downpour; but they were startled at hearing fearful
cries issuing out of the darkness. The rural parts of the city, filled with gardens and villas,
lay round within a quarter of a mile of the ark, and the sound, accelerated by the water-charged
atmosphere, struck upon their ears with terrible distinctness. Sometimes, when a gust of wind
blew the rain into their faces, the sound deepened into a long, despairing wail, which seemed
to be borne from afar off, mingled with the roar of the descending torrent--the death-cry of
the vast metropolis!

"Merciful Heaven, I cannot endure this!" cried Professor Moses.

"Go to my cabin," Cosmo yelled in his ear, "and take the others with you. I will join you there
in a little while. I wish to measure the rate of rise of the water."

They gladly left him, and fled into the interior of the ark. Cosmo procured an electric lamp;
and the moment its light streamed out he perceived that the water had already submerged the
great cradle in which the ark rested, and was beginning to creep up the metallic sides. He
lowered a graduated tape into it, provided with an automatic register. In a few minutes he
had completed his task, and then he went to rejoin his late companions in his cabin.

"In about an hour," he said to them, "we shall be afloat. The water is rising at the rate of
one-thirtieth of an inch per second."

"No more than that?" asked Professor Jones with an accent of surprise.

"That is quite enough," Cosmo replied. "One-thirtieth of an inch per second means two inches
in a minute, and ten feet in an hour. In twenty-four hours from now the water will stand two
hundred and forty feet above its present level, and then only the tallest structures in New
York will lift their tops above it, if, indeed, they are not long before overturned by undermining
or the force of the waves."

"But it will be a long time before the hills and highlands are submerged," suggested Professor
Jones. "Are you perfectly sure that the flood will cover them?"

Cosmo Versal looked at his interlocutor, and slowly shook his head.

"It is truly a disappointment to me," he said at length, "to find that, even now, remnants
of doubt cling to your minds. I tell you that the nebula is condensing at its maximum rate.
It is likely to continue to do so for at least four months. In four months, at the rate of
two inches per minute, the level of the water will rise 28,800 feet. There is only one peak
in the world which is surely known to attain a slightly greater height than that--Mount Everest,
in the Himalayas. Even in a single month the rise will amount to 7,200 feet. That is 511 feet
higher than the loftiest mountain in the Appalachians. In one month, then, there will be nothing
visible of North America east of the Rockies. And in another month they will have gone under."

Not another word was said. The three professors sat, wide-eyed and open-mouthed, staring at
Cosmo Versal, whose bald head was crowned with an aureole by the electric light that beamed
from the ceiling, while, with a gold pocket pencil, he fell to figuring upon a sheet of paper.

CHAPTER X

THE LAST DAY OF NEW YORK

While Cosmo Versal was calculating, from the measured rise of the water, the rate of condensation
of the nebula, and finding that it added twenty-nine trillion two hundred and ninety billion
tons to the weight of the earth every minute--a computation that seemed to give him great mental
satisfaction--the metropolis of the world, whose nucleus was the island of Manhattan, and every
other town and city on the globe that lay near the ordinary level of the sea, was swiftly sinking
beneath the swelling flood.

Everywhere, over all the broad surface of the planet, a wail of despair arose from the perishing
millions, beaten down by the water that poured from the unpitying sky. Even on the highlands
the situation was little better than in the valleys. The hills seemed to have been turned into
the crests of cataracts from which torrents of water rushed down on all sides, stripping the
soil from the rocks, and sending the stones and bowlders roaring and leaping into the lowlands
and the gorges. Farmhouses, barns, villas, trees, animals, human beings--all were swept away
together.

Only on broad elevated plateaus, where higher points rose above the general level, were a few
of the inhabitants able to find a kind of refuge. By seeking these high places, and sheltering
themselves as best they could among immovable rocks, they succeeded, at least, in delaying
their fate. Notwithstanding the fact that the atmosphere was filled with falling water, they
could yet breathe, if they kept the rain from striking directly in their faces. Juanita, after the
usual salutations, said to Don Paco, who claimed that he opened:
- My mother has not returned.

I do not know when to return. While I myself do not you dare open the door and let him enter. The
people murmur and against us, and murmurs a thousand times more if I did such a thing. Go away
then, and forgive me for not receiving.

No objection was right to put Don Paco, convinced it was reasonable that Juanita. Only said -
Since I do not get, do not leave the gate and talk me for a while.

Although people see us, what can I say? - May mean that you do not come to pray the rosary
with me selfishly believe that I may fuss at you and get out of helmets,
and they may be able to censor me you granddaughter, pull to be his
girlfriend and perhaps his friend.

With this assumption I will draw all the skin from túrdigas, and when it reaches the ears of your
daughter, my lady Dona Ines Lopez de Roland and other herbs, that you and I are here peeling the kettle
will be able to come, although is delicate and ailing, and we peel or flay us both, since they do not
send this to the priest together with the altar boy with the bucket
and swab of holy water, not to marry us, but for us to spray and
cool with it, sticking out the demons of the body. - Come on, Juanita,
do not be mean and talk nonsense. It is not as fierce as he is painted
on. And if you like a bit of me and my conversation rather amused you
nag, you would not be so afraid of gossip, or the fury of my daughter,
or the exorcism of the priest. - And where do you get I do not like
to have with you a moment of gab?

I find few things more
fun than your conversation, and besides I always learn something
and earn hear him speak.

I'm ignorant, almost wild, but self-love me right, I do not think I'm stupid. I understand, then,
and welcome and appreciate the value of their words. - So how is that I want? - misunderstand.
What kind of Wishes is it? - In love. - Since this is another matter.

If love is like the one with the Father Anselmo his breviary, as having Dona Ines devoted to his books
or that you have the laws or regulations that study, my love is
evident and I love you and you want those books.

Not unless you delight in reading them, I delight I hear you when you talk. - But Juanita traitor,
you flatter me and kill me at once. I do not want to instruct, but
in love.

I aspire to be your book, but your boyfriend. - Jesus, Mary and Joseph.

Are you crazy, Don Paco?

What would stop, what purpose would not be disastrous to have that
engagement?

Do you not tremble at the meat you imagine the deafening serenade that we would if we were married?
And if the engagement does not end in marriage, where would I hide my
shame, cast in this seductive town by elderly gentlemen?
 Others
steered up the course of the Hudson River, but that had become a narrow sea, filled with floating
and tossing debris of every sort, and all landmarks being invisible, the luckless navigators
lost their way, and perished, either through collisions with other vessels, or by driving upon
a rocky shore.

The fate of the gigantic building containing the offices of the municipal government, which
stood near the ancient City Hall, and which had been the culminating achievement of the famous
epoch of "sky-scrapers," was a thing so singular, and at the same time dramatic, that in a
narrative dealing with less extraordinary events than we are obliged to record it would appear
altogether incredible.

With its twoscore lofty stories, and its massive base, this wonderful structure rose above
the lower quarter of the city, and dominated it, like a veritable Tower of Babel, made to defy
the flood. Many thousands of people evidently regarded it in that very light, and they had
fled from all quarters, as soon as the great downpour began, to find refuge within its mountainous
flanks. There were men--clerks, merchants, brokers from the downtown offices--and women and
children from neighboring tenements.

By good chance, but a few weeks before, this building had been fitted with a newly invented
system of lighting, by which each story was supplied with electricity from a small dynamo of
its own, and so it happened that now the lamps within were all aglow, lightening the people's
hearts a little with their cheering radiance.

Up and up they climbed, the water ever following at their heels, from floor to floor, until
ten of the great stages were submerged. But there were more than twice as many stages yet above,
and they counted them with unexpiring hope, telling one another, with the assurance of desperation,
that long before the flood could attain so stupendous an altitude the rain would surely cease,
and the danger, as far as they were concerned, would pass away.

"See! See!" cries one. "It is stopping! It is coming no higher! I've been watching that step,
and the water has stopped! It hasn't risen for ten minutes!"

