
     Herholdt."

[Sidenote: An illusory measure.]

And Lord Milner, in his final analysis of the law on July 26th, concludes[112] that "the Bill
as it stands leaves it practically in the hands of the Government to enfranchise, or not to
enfranchise, the Uitlanders as it chooses." And he then draws attention to the very grave consideration
that if the paramount Power once accepts this illusory measure, it will deprive itself of any
future right of intervention on the franchise question.

         [Footnote 112: C. 9,518.]

     "And the worst of it," he wrote, "is that should the Bill,
     through a literal interpretation of its complicated provisions,
     fail to secure the object at which it avowedly aims, no one will
     be able to protest against the result."

For one moment it seemed to the anxious warden of British interests in South Africa as though
the Home Government might be caught in President Krüger's legislative net. The incident is
one that well exhibits the tireless effort and unflinching resolution with which Lord Milner
discharged the duties of his office.

President Krüger's Bloemfontein scheme was a maze of legal pitfalls. What these pitfalls were
the reader may learn from the analysis of the scheme which was published in The Cape Times
of June 10th, 1899. When the Franchise Bill was before the Volksraad this complicated scheme,
as we have seen, was amended and re-amended; and each new provision was as intricate in its
working as the parent scheme. It is obvious that nothing short of a commission of inquiry could
have determined with certainty the manner in which the representation of the Uitlanders was
affected by each successive amendment. While these changes were in progress in the Raadzaal
at Pretoria--changes so "numerous and so rapid," as Lord Milner said,[113] that it was "absolutely
impossible at any given moment to know what the effect of the scheme, as existing at that moment,
was likely to be"--Lord Milner himself at Capetown was at one and the same time overwhelmed
with detailed criticisms from Uitlanders, anxious that no legal pitfall or administrative obstacle
should remain undetected, and besieged with cables from the Colonial Office requesting precise
information upon any point upon which an energetic member of the House of Commons might have
chosen to interrogate the Secretary of State. And, in addition to this rain of telegrams, people
on the spot were constantly calling at Government House to ask if the High Commissioner had
observed this or that defect or trap in clauses, the text of which he had not yet had time
to receive, still less to read or comprehend. Itinerary.

Where there are efficient maps the only need is to mark in the position of any antiquities,
by cross-bearings to clear points, with the compass, drawn in with
a sharp pencil.

         Where the maps are too small, or deficient, a continuous register
of time should be made, noting the minute of starting and of stopping;
this over known distances will serve to give the value over the unknown.

Note whether mounted or walking, and the compass bearing of the track;
also the bearings of known points around, whenever stopping.

 Five days later the Volksraad accepted the final amendments.
The face value of the Bill, as it now stood to be converted into law, was a seven years' franchise,
prospective and retrospective. When, therefore, Mr. Chamberlain heard this same day (July 18th)
that the Volksraad had accepted the bill in this form with only five dissentients, he seems
to have assumed that a really considerable concession had been made by President Krüger at
the last moment, and that, with the President and the Volksraad in this mood, still further
concessions would be forthcoming. Under this impression he informed the House of Commons lobby
correspondent of The Times that "the crisis might be regarded as at an end." His words were
reproduced in The Times on the day following (July 19th), and at once cabled to South Africa.

         [Footnote 114: C. 9,415.]

It is impossible for any one who has not lived in South Africa to realise the sickening distrust
and dread produced in the minds of the loyal subjects of the Crown by this statement. War they
were ready to face. But to go back to every-day life once again bowed down with the shame of
a moral Majuba, to meet the eyes of the Dutch once more aflame with the light of victory, to
hear their words of insolent contempt--was ignominy unspeakable and unendurable. The Uitlander
Council at once cabled an emphatic message of protest[115] to Mr. Chamberlain, and every loyalist
that had a friend in England telegraphed to beg him to use all his influence to prevent the
surrender of the Government. How near the British population in South Africa were to this ignominy
may be gathered from the fact that on this day Lord Milner received a telegram in which Mr.
Chamberlain congratulated him upon the successful issue of his efforts. Lord Milner's reply
was one that could have left no doubt in Mr. Chamberlain's mind as to the gravity of the misconception
under which he laboured. Paper for wet squeezes, and for dry squeezes. Brush for wet squeezes
(spoke brush). One or two so-metre tapes. A few bamboo gardening canes for markers in planning. Divide
one in inches or centimetres for measuring buildings. A steel rod, 3 ft. x 1 inch for probing.


         [Footnote 115: "The Uitlander Council is keenly disappointed
         at the Times' announcement that the seven years' franchise
         is acceptable to the Imperial Government. We fear few will
         accept the franchise on this condition, so the result is not
         likely to abate unrest and discontent, nor redress pressing
         grievances. Such a settlement would not even approximate to
         the conditions obtaining in the Orange Free State and the
         [British] colonies, and would fail to secure the recognition
         of the principle of racial equality. We earnestly implore you
         not to depart from the High Commissioner's five years'
         compromise, which the Uitlanders accepted with great
         reluctance. The absolute necessity for a satisfactory
         settlement with an Imperial guarantee is emphasised by the
         insincerity and bad faith persistently shown during the
         Volksraad discussion of the Franchise Law."--C. 9,415.]

[Sidenote: The relapse in England.]

