     TO THE OHIO SOCIETY,--I have at this moment received a most kind
     invitation (eleven days old) from Mr. Southard, president; and a
     like one (ten days old) from Mr. Bryant, president of the Press
     Club.  I thank the society cordially for the compliment of these
     invitations, although I am booked elsewhere and cannot come.

     But, oh, I should like to know the name of the Lightning Express by
     which they were forwarded; for I owe a friend a dozen chickens, and
     I believe it will be cheaper to send eggs instead, and let them
     develop on the road.
                    Sincerely yours,
                                        Mark TWAIN.

I want to tell you of some of my experiences in business, and then I will be in a position
to lay down one general rule for the guidance of those who want to succeed in business. My
first effort was about twenty-five years ago. I took hold of an invention--I don't know now
what it was all about, but some one came to me tend told me it was a good thing, and that there
was lots of money in it. He persuaded me to invest $15,000, and I lived up to my beliefs by
engaging a man to develop it. To make a long story short, I sunk $40,000 in it.

Then I took up the publication of a book. I called in a publisher and said to him: "I want
you to publish this book along lines which I shall lay down. I am the employer, and you are
the employee. I am going to show them some new kinks in the publishing business. And I want
you to draw on me for money as you go along," which he did. He drew on me for $56,000. Then
I asked him to take the book and call it off. But he refused to do that.

My next venture was with a machine for doing something or other. I knew less about that than
I did about the invention. But I sunk $170,000 in the business, and I can't for the life of
me recollect what it was the machine was to do.

I was still undismayed. You see, one of the strong points about my business life was that I
never gave up. I undertook to publish General Grant's book, and made $140,000 in six months.
My axiom is, to succeed in business: avoid my example.

CARNEGIE THE BENEFACTOR

          At the dinner given in honor of Andrew Carnegie by the Lotos
          Club, March 17, 1909, Mr. Clemens appeared in a white suit from
          head to feet.  He wore a white double-breasted coat, white
          trousers, and white shoes.  The only relief was a big black
          cigar, which he confidentially informed the company was not
          from his usual stack bought at $3 per barrel.

The State of Missouri has for its coat of arms a barrel-head with two Missourians, one on each
side of it, and mark the motto--"United We Stand, Divided We Fall." Mr. Carnegie, this evening,
has suffered from compliments. It is interesting to hear what people will say about a man.
Why, at the banquet given by this club in my honor, Mr. Carnegie had the inspiration for which
the club is now honoring him. If Dunfermline contributed so much to the United States in contributing
Mr. Carnegie, what would have happened if all Scotland had turned out? These Dunfermline folk
have acquired advantages in coming to America.

Doctor McKelway paid the top compliment, the cumulation, when he said of Mr. Carnegie:

"There is a man who wants to pay more taxes than he is charged." Richard Watson Gilder did
very well for a poet. He advertised his magazine. He spoke of hiring Mr. Carnegie--the next
thing he will be trying to hire me.

If I undertook--to pay compliments I would do it stronger than any others have done it, for
what Mr. Carnegie wants are strong compliments. Now, the other side of seventy, I have preserved,
as my chiefest virtue, modesty.

ON POETRY, VERACITY, AND SUICIDE

          ADDRESS AT A DINNER OF THE MANHATTAN DICKENS FELLOWSHIP,
          NEW YORK CITY, FEBRUARY 7, 1906

          This dinner was in commemoration of the ninety-fourth
          anniversary of the birth of Charles Dickens.  On an other
          occasion Mr. Clemens told the same story with variations and a
          different conclusion to the University Settlement Society.

I always had taken an interest in young people who wanted to become poets. I remember I was
particularly interested in one budding poet when I was a reporter. His name was Butter.

One day he came to me and said, disconsolately, that he was going to commit suicide--he was
tired of life, not being able to express his thoughts in poetic form. Butter asked me what
I thought of the idea.

I said I would; that it was a good idea. "You can do me a friendly turn. You go off in a private
place and do it there, and I'll get it all. You do it, and I'll do as much for you some time."

At first he determined to drown himself. Drowning is so nice and clean, and writes up so well
in a newspaper.

But things ne'er do go smoothly in weddings, suicides, or courtships. Only there at the edge
of the water, where Butter was to end himself, lay a life-preserver--a big round canvas one,
which would float after the scrap-iron was soaked out of it.

Butter wouldn't kill himself with the life-preserver in sight, and so I had an idea. I took
it to a pawnshop, and [soaked] it for a revolver: The pawnbroker didn't think much of the exchange,
but when I explained the situation he acquiesced. We went up on top of a high building, and
this is what happened to the poet:

He put the revolver to his forehead and blew a tunnel straight through his head. The tunnel
was about the size of your finger. You could look right through it. The job was complete; there
was nothing in it.

Well, after that that man never could write prose, but he could write poetry. He could write
it after he had blown his brains out. There is lots of that talent all over the country, but
the trouble is they don't develop it.

I am suffering now from the fact that I, who have told the truth a good many times in my life,
have lately received more letters than anybody else urging me to lead a righteous life. I have
more friends who want to see me develop on a high level than anybody else.

Young John D. Rockefeller, two weeks ago, taught his Bible class all about veracity, and why
it was better that everybody should always keep a plentiful supply on hand. Some of the letters
I have received suggest that I ought to attend his class and learn, too. Why, I know Mr. Rockefeller,
and he is a good fellow. He is competent in many ways to teach a Bible class, but when it comes
to veracity he is only thirty-five years old. I'm seventy years old. I have been familiar with
veracity twice as long as he.

And the story about George Washington and his little hatchet has also been suggested to me
in these letters--in a fugitive way, as if I needed some of George Washington and his hatchet
in my constitution. Why, dear me, they overlook the real point in that story. The point is
not the one that is usually suggested, and you can readily see that.

The point is not that George said to his father, "Yes, father, I cut down the cheery-tree;
I can't tell a lie," but that the little boy--only seven years old--should have his sagacity
developed under such circumstances. He was a boy wise beyond his years. His conduct then was
a prophecy of later years. Yes, I think he was the most remarkable man the country ever produced-up
to my time, anyway.

Now then, little George realized that circumstantial evidence was against him. He knew that
his father would know from the size of the chips that no full-grown hatchet cut that tree down,
and that no man would have haggled it so. He knew that his father would send around the plantation
and inquire for a small boy with a hatchet, and he had the wisdom to come out and confess it.
Now, the idea that his father was overjoyed when he told little George that he would rather
have him cut down, a thousand cheery-trees than tell a lie is all nonsense. What did he really
mean? Why, that he was absolutely astonished that he had a son who had the chance to tell a
lie and didn't.

I admire old George--if that was his name--for his discernment. He knew when he said that his
son couldn't tell a lie that he was stretching it a good deal. He wouldn't have to go to John
D. Rockefeller's Bible class to find that out. The way the old George Washington story goes
down it doesn't do anybody any good. It only discourages people who can tell a lie.

WELCOME HOME

          ADDRESS AT THE DINNER IN HIS HONOR AT THE LOTOS CLUB,
          NOVEMBER 10, 1900

In August, 1895, just before sailing for Australia, Mr. Clemens issued the following statement:

"It has been reported that I sacrificed, for the benefit of the creditors, the property of
the publishing firm whose financial backer I was, and that I am now lecturing for my own benefit.

"This is an error. I intend the lectures, as well as the property, for the creditors.

"I had a two-thirds interest in the publishing firm whose capital I furnished. If the firm
had prospered I would have expected to collect two-thirds of the profits. As it is, I expect
to pay all the debts. My partner has no resources, and I do not look for assistance to my wife,
whose contributions in cash from her own means have nearly equalled the claims of all the creditors
combined. She has taken nothing; on the contrary, she has helped and intends to help me to
satisfy the obligations due to the rest of the creditors.

"It is my intention to ask my creditors to accept that as a legal discharge, and trust to my
honor to pay the other fifty per cent. as fast as I can earn it. From my reception thus far
on my lecturing tour, I am confident that if I live I can pay off the last debt within four years.

"After which, at the age of sixty-four, I can make a fresh and unincumbered start in life.
I am going to Australia, India, and South Africa, and next year I hope to make a tour of the
great cities of the United States."

I thank you all out of my heart for this fraternal welcome, and it seems almost too fine, almost
too magnificent, for a humble Missourian such as I am, far from his native haunts on the banks
of the Mississippi; yet my modesty is in a degree fortified by observing that I am not the
only Missourian who has been honored here to-night, for I see at this very table-here is a
Missourian [indicating Mr. McKelway], and there is a Missourian [indicating Mr. Depew], and
there is another Missourian--and Hendrix and Clemens; and last but not least, the greatest
Missourian of them all--here he sits--Tom Reed, who has always concealed his birth till now.
And since I have been away I know what has been happening in his case: he has deserted politics,
and now is leading a creditable life. He has reformed, and God prosper him; and I judge, by
a remark which he made up-stairs awhile ago, that he had found a new business that is utterly
suited to his make and constitution, and all he is doing now is that he is around raising the
average of personal beauty.

But I am grateful to the president for the kind words which he has said of me, and it is not
for me to say whether these praises were deserved or not. I prefer to accept them just as they
stand, without concerning myself with the statistics upon which they have been built, but only
with that large matter, that essential matter, the good-fellowship, the kindliness, the magnanimity,
and generosity that prompted their utterance. Well, many things have happened since I sat here
before, and now that I think of it, the president's reference to the debts which were left
by the bankrupt firm of Charles L. Webster & Co. gives me an opportunity to say a word which
I very much wish to say, not for myself, but for ninety-five men and women whom I shall always
hold in high esteem and in pleasant remembrance--the creditors of that firm. They treated me
well; they treated me handsomely. There were ninety-six of them, and by not a finger's weight
did ninety-five of them add to the burden of that time for me. Ninety-five out of the ninety-six--they
didn't indicate by any word or sign that they were anxious about their money. They treated
me well, and I shall not forget it; I could not forget it if I wanted to. Many of them said,
"Don't you worry, don't you hurry"; that's what they said. Why, if I could have that kind of
creditors always, and that experience, I would recognize it as a personal loss to be out of
debt. I owe those ninety-five creditors a debt of homage, and I pay it now in such measure
as one may pay so fine a debt in mere words. Yes, they said that very thing. I was not personally
acquainted with ten of them, and yet they said, "Don't you worry, and don't you hurry." I know
that phrase by heart, and if all the other music should perish out of the world it would still
sing to me. I appreciate that; I am glad to say this word; people say so much about me, and
they forget those creditors. They were handsomer than I was--or Tom Reed.

Oh, you have been doing many things in this time that I have been absent; you have done lots
of things, some that are well worth remembering, too. Now, we have fought a righteous war since
I have gone, and that is rare in history--a righteous war is so rare that it is almost unknown
in history; but by the grace of that war we set Cuba free, and we joined her to those three
or four nations that exist on this earth; and we started out to set those poor Filipinos free,
too, and why, why, why that most righteous purpose of ours has apparently miscarried I suppose
I never shall know.

But we have made a most creditable record in China in these days--our sound and level-headed
administration has made a most creditable record over there, and there are some of the Powers
that cannot say that by any means. The Yellow Terror is threatening this world to-day. It is
looming vast and ominous on that distant horizon. I do not know what is going to be the result
of that Yellow Terror, but our government has had no hand in evoking it, and let's be happy
in that and proud of it.

We have nursed free silver, we watched by its cradle; we have done the best we could to raise
that child, but those pestiferous Republicans have--well, they keep giving it the measles every
chance they get, and we never shall raise that child. Well, that's no matter--there's plenty
of other things to do, and we must think of something else. Well, we have tried a President
four years, criticised him and found fault with him the whole time, and turned around a day
or two ago with votes enough to spare to elect another. O consistency! consistency! thy name--I
don't know what thy name is--Thompson will do--any name will do--but you see there is the fact,
there is the consistency. Then we have tried for governor an illustrious Rough Rider, and we
liked him so much in that great office that now we have made him Vice-President--not in order
that that office shall give him distinction, but that he may confer distinction upon that office.
And it's needed, too--it's needed. And now, for a while anyway, we shall not be stammering
and embarrassed when a stranger asks us, "What is the name of the Vice-President?" This one
is known; this one is pretty well known, pretty widely known, and in some quarters favorably.
I am not accustomed to dealing in these fulsome compliments, and I am probably overdoing it
a little; but--well, my old affectionate admiration for Governor Roosevelt has probably betrayed
me into the complimentary excess; but I know him, and you know him; and if you give him rope
enough--I mean if--oh yes, he will justify that compliment; leave it just as it is. And now
we have put in his place Mr. Odell, another Rough Rider, I suppose; all the fat things go to
that profession now. Why, I could have been a Rough Rider myself if I had known that this political
Klondike was going to open up, and I would have been a Rough Rider if I could have gone to
war on an automobile but not on a horse! No, I know the horse too well; I have known the horse
in war and in peace, and there is no place where a horse is comfortable. The horse has too
many caprices, and he is too much given to initiative. He invents too many new ideas. No, I
don't want anything to do with a horse.

And then we have taken Chauncey Depew out of a useful and active life and made him a Senator--embalmed
him, corked him up. And I am not grieving. That man has said many a true thing about me in
his time, and I always said something would happen to him. Look at that [pointing to Mr. Depew]
gilded mummy! He has made my life a sorrow to me at many a banquet on both sides of the ocean,
and now he has got it. Perish the hand that pulls that cork!

All these things have happened, all these things have come to pass, while I have been away,
and it just shows how little a Mugwump can be missed in a cold, unfeeling world, even when
he is the last one that is left--a GRAND OLD PARTY all by himself. And there is another thing
that has happened, perhaps the most imposing event of them all: the institution called the
Daughters of the--Crown--the Daughters of the Royal Crown--has established itself and gone
into business. Now, there's an American idea for you; there's an idea born of God knows what
kind of specialized insanity, but not softening of the brain--you cannot soften a thing that
doesn't exist--the Daughters of the Royal Crown! Nobody eligible but American descendants of
Charles II. Dear me, how the fancy product of that old harem still holds out!

Well, I am truly glad to foregather with you again, and partake of the bread and salt of this
hospitable house once more. Seven years ago, when I was your guest here, when I was old and
despondent, you gave me the grip and the word that lift a man up and make him glad to be alive;
and now I come back from my exile young again, fresh and alive, and ready to begin life once
more, and your welcome puts the finishing touch upon my restored youth and makes it real to
me, and not a gracious dream that must vanish with the morning. I thank you.

AN UNDELIVERED SPEECH

          The steamship St. Paul was to have been launched from Cramp's
          shipyard in Philadelphia on March 25, 1895.  After the
          launching a luncheon was to have been given, at which Mr.
          Clemens was to make a speech.  Just before the final word was
          given a reporter asked Mr. Clemens for a copy of his speech to
          be delivered at the luncheon.  To facilitate the work of the
          reporter he loaned him a typewritten copy of the speech.  It
          happened, however, that when the blocks were knocked away the
          big ship refused to budge, and no amount of labor could move
          her an inch.  She had stuck fast upon the ways.  As a result,
          the launching was postponed for a week or two; but in the mean
          time Mr. Clemens had gone to Europe.  Years after a reporter
          called on Mr. Clemens and submitted the manuscript of the
          speech, which was as follows:

Day after to-morrow I sail for England in a ship of this line, the Paris. It will be my fourteenth
crossing in three years and a half. Therefore, my presence here, as you see, is quite natural,
quite commercial. I am interested in ships. They interest me more now than hotels do. When
a new ship is launched I feel a desire to go and see if she will be good quarters for me to
live in, particularly if she belongs to this line, for it is by this line that I have done
most of my ferrying.

People wonder why I go so much. Well, I go partly for my health, partly to familiarize myself
with the road. I have gone over the same road so many times now that I know all the whales
that belong along the route, and latterly it is an embarrassment to me to meet them, for they
do not look glad to see me, but annoyed, and they seem to say: "Here is this old derelict again."

Earlier in life this would have pained me and made me ashamed, but I am older now, and when
I am behaving myself, and doing right, I do not care for a whale's opinion about me. When we
are young we generally estimate an opinion by the size of the person that holds it, but later
we find that that is an uncertain rule, for we realize that there are times when a hornet's
opinion disturbs us more than an emperor's.

I do not mean that I care nothing at all for a whale's opinion, for that would be going to
too great a length. Of course, it is better to have the good opinion of a whale than his disapproval;
but my position is that if you cannot have a whale's good opinion, except at some sacrifice
of principle or personal dignity, it is better to try to live without it. That is my idea about
whales.

Yes, I have gone over that same route so often that I know my way without a compass, just by
the waves. I know all the large waves and a good many of the small ones. Also the sunsets.
I know every sunset and where it belongs just by its color. Necessarily, then, I do not make
the passage now for scenery. That is all gone by.

What I prize most is safety, and in, the second place swift transit and handiness. These are
best furnished, by the American line, whose watertight compartments have no passage through
them; no doors to be left open, and consequently no way for water to get from one of them to
another in time of collision. If you nullify the peril which collisions threaten you with,
you nullify the only very serious peril which attends voyages in the great liners of our day,
and makes voyaging safer than staying at home.

When the Paris was half-torn to pieces some years ago, enough of the Atlantic ebbed and flowed
through one end of her, during her long agony, to sink the fleets of the world if distributed
among them; but she floated in perfect safety, and no life was lost. In time of collision the
rock of Gibraltar is not safer than the Paris and other great ships of this line. This seems
to be the only great line in the world that takes a passenger from metropolis to metropolis
without the intervention of tugs and barges or bridges--takes him through without breaking
bulk, so to speak.

On the English side he lands at a dock; on the dock a special train is waiting; in an hour
and three-quarters he is in, London. Nothing could be handier. If your journey were from a
sand-pit on our side to a lighthouse on the other, you could make it quicker by other lines,
but that is not the case. The journey is from the city of New York to the city of London, and
no line can do that journey quicker than this one, nor anywhere near as conveniently and handily.
And when the passenger lands on our side he lands on the American side of the river, not in
the provinces. As a very learned man said on the last voyage (he is head quartermaster of the
New York land garboard streak of the middle watch)

"When we land a passenger on the American side there's nothing betwix him and his hotel but
hell and the hackman."

I am glad, with you and the nation, to welcome the new ship. She is another pride, another
consolation, for a great country whose mighty fleets have all vanished, and which has almost
forgotten, what it is to fly its flag to sea. I am not sure as to which St. Paul she is named
for. Some think it is the one that is on the upper Mississippi, but the head quartermaster
told me it was the one that killed Goliath. But it is not important. No matter which it is,
let us give her hearty welcome and godspeed.

SIXTY-SEVENTH BIRTHDAY

          AT THE METROPOLITAN CLUB, NEW YORK, NOVEMBER 28, 1902

          Address at a dinner given in honor of Mr. Clemens by Colonel
          Harvey, President of Harper & Brothers.

I think I ought to be allowed to talk as long as I want to, for the reason that I have cancelled
all my winter's engagements of every kind, for good and sufficient reasons, and am making no
new engagements for this winter, and, therefore, this is the only chance I shall have to disembowel
my skull for a year--close the mouth in that portrait for a year. I want to offer thanks and
homage to the chairman for this innovation which he has introduced here, which is an improvement,
as I consider it, on the old-fashioned style of conducting occasions like this. That was bad
that was a bad, bad, bad arrangement. Under that old custom the chairman got up and made a
speech, he introduced the prisoner at the bar, and covered him all over with compliments, nothing
but compliments, not a thing but compliments, never a slur, and sat down and left that man
to get up and talk without a text. You cannot talk on compliments; that is not a text. No modest
person, and I was born one, can talk on compliments. A man gets up and is filled to the eyes
with happy emotions, but his tongue is tied; he has nothing to say; he is in the condition
of Doctor Rice's friend who came home drunk and explained it to his wife, and his wife said
to him, "John, when you have drunk all the whiskey you want, you ought to ask for sarsaparilla."
He said, "Yes, but when I have drunk all the whiskey I want I can't say sarsaparilla." And
so I think it is much better to leave a man unmolested until the testimony and pleadings are
all in. Otherwise he is dumb--he is at the sarsaparilla stage.

Before I get to the higgledy-piggledy point, as Mr. Howells suggested I do, I want to thank
you, gentlemen, for this very high honor you are doing me, and I am quite competent to estimate
it at its value. I see around me captains of all the illustrious industries, most distinguished
men; there are more than fifty here, and I believe I know thirty-nine of them well. I could
probably borrow money from--from the others, anyway. It is a proud thing to me, indeed, to
see such a distinguished company gather here on such an occasion as this, when there is no
foreign prince to be feted--when you have come here not to do honor to hereditary privilege
and ancient lineage, but to do reverence to mere moral excellence and elemental veracity-and,
dear me, how old it seems to make me! I look around me and I see three or four persons I have
known so many, many years. I have known Mr. Secretary Hay--John Hay, as the nation and the
rest of his friends love to call him--I have known John Hay and Tom Reed and the Reverend Twichell
close upon thirty-six years. Close upon thirty-six years I have known those venerable men.
I have known Mr. Howells nearly thirty-four years, and I knew Chauncey Depew before he could
walk straight, and before he learned to tell the truth. Twenty-seven years ago, I heard him
make the most noble and eloquent and beautiful speech that has ever fallen from even his capable
lips. Tom Reed said that my principal defect was inaccuracy of statement. Well, suppose that
that is true. What's the use of telling the truth all the time? I never tell the truth about
Tom Reed--but that is his defect, truth; he speaks the truth always. Tom Reed has a good heart,
and he has a good intellect, but he hasn't any judgment. Why, when Tom Reed was invited to
lecture to the Ladies' Society for the Procreation or Procrastination, or something, of morals,
I don't know what it was--advancement, I suppose, of pure morals--he had the immortal indiscretion
to begin by saying that some of us can't be optimists, but by judiciously utilizing the opportunities
that Providence puts in our way we can all be bigamists. You perceive his limitations. Anything
he has in his mind he states, if he thinks it is true. Well, that was true, but that was no
place to say it--so they fired him out.

A lot of accounts have been settled here tonight for me; I have held grudges against some of
these people, but they have all been wiped out by the very handsome compliments that have been
paid me. Even Wayne MacVeagh--I have had a grudge against him many years. The first time I
saw Wayne MacVeagh was at a private dinner-party at Charles A. Dana's, and when I got there
he was clattering along, and I tried to get a word in here and there; but you know what Wayne
MacVeagh is when he is started, and I could not get in five words to his one--or one word to
his five. I struggled along and struggled along, and--well, I wanted to tell and I was trying
to tell a dream I had had the night before, and it was a remarkable dream, a dream worth people's
while to listen to, a dream recounting Sam Jones the revivalist's reception in heaven. I was
on a train, and was approaching the celestial way-station--I had a through ticket--and I noticed
a man sitting alongside of me asleep, and he had his ticket in his hat. He was the remains
of the Archbishop of Canterbury; I recognized him by his photograph. I had nothing against
him, so I took his ticket and let him have mine. He didn't object--he wasn't in a condition
to object--and presently when the train stopped at the heavenly station--well, I got off, and
he went on by request--but there they all were, the angels, you know, millions of them, every
one with a torch; they had arranged for a torch-light procession; they were expecting the Archbishop,
and when I got off they started to raise a shout, but it didn't materialize. I don't know whether
they were disappointed. I suppose they had a lot of superstitious ideas about the Archbishop
and what he should look like, and I didn't fill the bill, and I was trying to explain to Saint
Peter, and was doing it in the German tongue, because I didn't want to be too explicit. Well,
I found it was no use, I couldn't get along, for Wayne MacVeagh was occupying the whole place,
and I said to Mr. Dana, "What is the matter with that man? Who is that man with the long tongue?
What's the trouble with him, that long, lank cadaver, old oil-derrick out of a job--who is
that?" "Well, now," Mr. Dana said, "you don't want to meddle with him; you had better keep
quiet; just keep quiet, because that's a bad man. Talk! He was born to talk. Don't let him
get out with you; he'll skin you." I said, "I have been skinned, skinned, and skinned for years,
there is nothing left." He said, "Oh, you'll find there is; that man is the very seed and inspiration
of that proverb which says, 'No matter how close you skin an onion, a clever man can always
peel it again.'" Well, I reflected and I quieted down. That would never occur to Tom Reed.
He's got no discretion. Well, MacVeagh is just the same man; he hasn't changed a bit in all
those years; he has been peeling Mr. Mitchell lately. That's the kind of man he is.

Mr. Howells--that poem of his is admirable; that's the way to treat a person. Howells has a
peculiar gift for seeing the merits of people, and he has always exhibited them in my favor.
Howells has never written anything about me that I couldn't read six or seven times a day;
he is always just and always fair; he has written more appreciatively of me than any one in
this world, and published it in the North American Review. He did me the justice to say that
my intentions--he italicized that--that my intentions were always good, that I wounded people's
conventions rather than their convictions. Now, I wouldn't want anything handsomer than that
said of me. I would rather wait, with anything harsh I might have to say, till the convictions
become conventions. Bangs has traced me all the way down. He can't find that honest man, but
I will look for him in the looking-glass when I get home. It was intimated by the Colonel that
it is New England that makes New York and builds up this country and makes it great, overlooking
the fact that there's a lot of people here who came from elsewhere, like John Hay from away
out West, and Howells from Ohio, and St. Clair McKelway and me from Missouri, and we are doing
what we can to build up New York a little-elevate it. Why, when I was living in that village
of Hannibal, Missouri, on the banks of the Mississippi, and Hay up in the town of Warsaw, also
on the banks of the Mississippi River it is an emotional bit of the Mississippi, and when it
is low water you have to climb up to it on a ladder, and when it floods you have to hunt for
it; with a deep-sea lead--but it is a great and beautiful country. In that old time it was
a paradise for simplicity--it was a simple, simple life, cheap but comfortable, and full of
sweetness, and there was nothing of this rage of modern civilization there at all. It was a
delectable land. I went out there last June, and I met in that town of Hannibal a schoolmate
of mine, John Briggs, whom I had not seen for more than fifty years. I tell you, that was a
meeting! That pal whom I had known as a little boy long ago, and knew now as a stately man
three or four inches over six feet and browned by exposure to many climes, he was back there
to see that old place again. We spent a whole afternoon going about here and there and yonder,
and hunting up the scenes and talking of the crimes which we had committed so long ago. It
was a heartbreaking delight, full of pathos, laughter, and tears, all mixed together; and we
called the roll of the boys and girls that we picnicked and sweethearted with so many years
ago, and there were hardly half a dozen of them left; the rest were in their graves; and we
went up there on the summit of that hill, a treasured place in my memory, the summit of Holiday's
Hill, and looked out again over that magnificent panorama of the Mississippi River, sweeping
along league after league, a level green paradise on one side, and retreating capes and promontories
as far as you could see on the other, fading away in the soft, rich lights of the remote distance.
I recognized then that I was seeing now the most enchanting river view the planet could furnish.
I never knew it when I was a boy; it took an educated eye that had travelled over the globe
to know and appreciate it; and John said, "Can you point out the place where Bear Creek used
to be before the railroad came?" I said, "Yes, it ran along yonder." "And can you point out
the swimming-hole?" "Yes, out there." And he said, "Can you point out the place where we stole
the skiff?" Well, I didn't know which one he meant. Such a wilderness of events had intervened
since that day, more than fifty years ago, it took me more than five minutes to call back that
little incident, and then I did call it back; it was a white skiff, and we painted it red to
allay suspicion. And the saddest, saddest man came along--a stranger he was--and he looked
that red skiff over so pathetically, and he said: "Well, if it weren't for the complexion I'd
know whose skiff that was." He said it in that pleading way, you know, that appeals for sympathy
and suggestion; we were full of sympathy for him, but we weren't in any condition to offer
suggestions. I can see him yet as he turned away with that same sad look on his face and vanished
out of history forever. I wonder what became of that man. I know what became of the skiff.
Well, it was a beautiful life, a lovely life. There was no crime. Merely little things like
pillaging orchards and watermelon-patches and breaking the Sabbath--we didn't break the Sabbath
often enough to signify--once a week perhaps. But we were good boys, good Presbyterian boys,
all Presbyterian boys, and loyal and all that; anyway, we were good Presbyterian boys when
the weather was doubtful; when it was fair, we did wander a little from the fold.

Look at John Hay and me. There we were in obscurity, and look where we are now. Consider the
ladder which he has climbed, the illustrious vocations he has served--and vocations is the
right word; he has in all those vocations acquitted himself with high credit and honor to his
country and to the mother that bore him. Scholar, soldier, diplomat, poet, historian--now,
see where we are. He is Secretary of State and I am a gentleman. It could not happen in any
other country. Our institutions give men the positions that of right belong to them through
merit; all you men have won your places, not by heredities, and not by family influence or
extraneous help, but only by the natural gifts God gave you at your birth, made effective by
your own energies; this is the country to live in.

Now, there is one invisible guest here. A part of me is present; the larger part, the better
part, is yonder at her home; that is my wife, and she has a good many personal friends here,
and I think it won't distress any one of them to know that, although she is going to be confined
to that bed for many months to come from that nervous prostration, there is not any danger
and she is coming along very well--and I think it quite appropriate that I should speak of
her. I knew her for the first time just in the same year that I first knew John Hay and Tom
Reed and Mr. Twichell--thirty-six years ago--and she has been the best friend I have ever had,
and that is saying a good deal; she has reared me--she and Twichell together--and what I am
I owe to them. Twichell why, it is such a pleasure to look upon Twichell's face! For five-and-twenty
years I was under the Rev. Mr. Twichell's tuition, I was in his pastorate, occupying a pew
in his church, and held him in due reverence. That man is full of all the graces that go to
make a person companionable and beloved; and wherever Twichell goes to start a church the people
flock there to buy the land; they find real estate goes up all around the spot, and the envious
and the thoughtful always try to get Twichell to move to their neighborhood and start a church;
and wherever you see him go you can go and buy land there with confidence, feeling sure that
there will be a double price for you before very long. I am not saying this to flatter Mr.
Twichell; it is the fact. Many and many a time I have attended the annual sale in his church,
and bought up all the pews on a margin--and it would have been better for me spiritually and
financially if I had stayed under his wing.

I have tried to do good in this world, and it is marvellous in how many different ways I have
done good, and it is comfortable to reflect--now, there's Mr. Rogers--just out of the affection
I bear that man many a time I have given him points in finance that he had never thought of--and
if he could lay aside envy, prejudice, and superstition, and utilize those ideas in his business,
it would make a difference in his bank account.

Well, I like the poetry. I like all the speeches and the poetry, too. I liked Doctor Van Dyke's
poem. I wish I could return thanks in proper measure to you, gentlemen, who have spoken and
violated your feelings to pay me compliments; some were merited and some you overlooked, it
is true; and Colonel Harvey did slander every one of you, and put things into my mouth that
I never said, never thought of at all.

And now, my wife and I, out of our single heart, return you our deepest and most grateful thanks,
and--yesterday was her birthday.

TO THE WHITEFRIARS

          ADDRESS AT THE DINNER GIVEN BY THE WHITEFRIARS CLUB IN HONOR OF
          MR. CLEMENS, LONDON, JUNE 20, 1899

          The Whitefriars Club was founded by Dr. Samuel Johnson, and Mr.
          Clemens was made an honorary member in 1874.  The members are
          representative of literary and journalistic London.  The toast
          of "Our Guest" was proposed by Louis F. Austin, of the
          Illustrated London News, and in the course of some humorous
          remarks he referred to the vow and to the imaginary woes of the
          "Friars," as the members of the club style themselves.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND BRETHREN OF THE VOW--in whatever the vow is; for although I have been a member
of this club for five-and twenty years, I don't know any more about what that vow is than Mr.
Austin seems to. But what ever the vow is, I don't care what it is. I have made a thousand vows.

There is no pleasure comparable to making a vow in the presence of one who appreciates that
vow, in the presence of men who honor and appreciate you for making the vow, and men who admire
you for making the vow.

There is only one pleasure higher than that, and that is to get outside and break the vow.
A vow is always a pledge of some kind or other for the protection of your own morals and principles
or somebody else's, and generally, by the irony of fate, it is for the protection of your own
morals.

Hence we have pledges that make us eschew tobacco or wine, and while you are taking the pledge
there is a holy influence about that makes you feel you are reformed, and that you can never
be so happy again in this world until--you get outside and take a drink.

I had forgotten that I was a member of this club--it is so long ago. But now I remember that
I was here five-and-twenty years ago, and that I was then at a dinner of the Whitefriars Club,
and it was in those old days when you had just made two great finds. All London was talking
about nothing else than that they had found Livingstone, and that the lost Sir Roger Tichborne
had been found--and they were trying him for it.

And at the dinner, Chairman (I do not know who he was)--failed to come to time. The gentleman
who had been appointed to pay me the customary compliments and to introduce me forgot the compliments,
and did not know what they were.

And George Augustus Sala came in at the last moment, just when I was about to go without compliments
altogether. And that man was a gifted man. They just called on him instantaneously, while he
was going to sit down, to introduce the stranger, and Sala, made one of those marvellous speeches
which he was capable of making. I think no man talked so fast as Sala did. One did not need
wine while he was making a speech. The rapidity of his utterance made a man drunk in a minute.
An incomparable speech was that, an impromptu speech, and--an impromptu speech is a seldom
thing, and he did it so well.

He went into the whole history of the United States, and made it entirely new to me. He filled
it with episodes and incidents that Washington never heard of, and he did it so convincingly
that although I knew none of it had happened, from that day to this I do not know any history
but Sala's.

I do not know anything so sad as a dinner where you are going to get up and say something by-and-by,
and you do not know what it is. You sit and wonder and wonder what the gentleman is going to
say who is going to introduce you. You know that if he says something severe, that if he will
deride you, or traduce you, or do anything of that kind, he will furnish you with a text, because
anybody can get up and talk against that.

Anybody can get up and straighten out his character. But when a gentleman gets up and merely
tells the truth about you, what can you do?

Mr. Austin has done well. He has supplied so many texts that I will have to drop out a lot
of them, and that is about as difficult as when you do not have any text at all. Now, he made
a beautiful and smooth speech without any difficulty at all, and I could have done that if
I had gone on with the schooling with which I began. I see here a gentleman on my left who
was my master in the art of oratory more than twenty-five years ago.

When I look upon the inspiring face of Mr. Depew, it carries me a long way back. An old and
valued friend of mine is he, and I saw his career as it came along, and it has reached pretty
well up to now, when he, by another miscarriage of justice, is a United States Senator. But
those were delightful days when I was taking lessons in oratory.

My other master the Ambassador-is not here yet. Under those two gentlemen I learned to make
after-dinner speeches, and it was charming.

You know the New England dinner is the great occasion on the other side of the water. It is
held every year to celebrate the landing of the Pilgrims. Those Pilgrims were a lot of people
who were not needed in England, and you know they had great rivalry, and they were persuaded
to go elsewhere, and they chartered a ship called Mayflower and set sail, and I have heard
it said that they pumped the Atlantic Ocean through that ship sixteen times.

They fell in over there with the Dutch from Rotterdam, Amsterdam, and a lot of other places
with profane names, and it is from that gang that Mr. Depew is descended.

On the other hand, Mr. Choate is descended from those Puritans who landed on a bitter night
in December. Every year those people used to meet at a great banquet in New York, and those
masters of mind in oratory had to make speeches. It was Doctor Depew's business to get up there
and apologise for the Dutch, and Mr. Choate had to get up later and explain the crimes of the
Puritans, and grand, beautiful times we used to have.

It is curious that after that long lapse of time I meet the Whitefriars again, some looking
as young and fresh as in the old days, others showing a certain amount of wear and tear, and
here, after all this time, I find one of the masters of oratory and the others named in the list.

And here we three meet again as exiles on one pretext or another, and you will notice that
while we are absent there is a pleasing tranquillity in America--a building up of public confidence.
We are doing the best we can for our country. I think we have spent our lives in serving our
country, and we never serve it to greater advantage than when we get out of it.

But impromptu speaking--that is what I was trying to learn. That is a difficult thing. I used
to do it in this way. I used to begin about a week ahead, and write out my impromptu, speech
and get it by heart. Then I brought it to the New England dinner printed on a piece of paper
in my pocket, so that I could pass it to the reporters all cut and dried, and in order to do
an impromptu speech as it should be done you have to indicate the places for pauses and hesitations.
I put them all in it. And then you want the applause in the right places.

When I got to the place where it should come in, if it did not come in I did not care, but
I had it marked in the paper. And these masters of mind used to wonder why it was my speech
came out in the morning in the first person, while theirs went through the butchery of synopsis.

I do that kind of speech (I mean an offhand speech), and do it well, and make no mistake in
such a way to deceive the audience completely and make that audience believe it is an impromptu
speech--that is art.

I was frightened out of it at last by an experience of Doctor Hayes. He was a sort of Nansen
of that day. He had been to the North Pole, and it made him celebrated. He had even seen the
polar bear climb the pole.

He had made one of those magnificent voyages such as Nansen made, and in those days when a
man did anything which greatly distinguished him for the moment he had to come on to the lecture
platform and tell all about it.

Doctor Hayes was a great, magnificent creature like Nansen, superbly built. He was to appear
in Boston. He wrote his lecture out, and it was his purpose to read it from manuscript; but
in an evil hour he concluded that it would be a good thing to preface it with something rather
handsome, poetical, and beautiful that he could get off by heart and deliver as if it were
the thought of the moment.

He had not had my experience, and could not do that. He came on the platform, held his manuscript
down, and began with a beautiful piece of oratory. He spoke something like this:

"When a lonely human being, a pigmy in the midst of the architecture of nature, stands solitary
on those icy waters and looks abroad to the horizon and sees mighty castles and temples of
eternal ice raising up their pinnacles tipped by the pencil of the departing sun--"

Here a man came across the platform and touched him on the shoulder, and said: "One minute."
And then to the audience:

"Is Mrs. John Smith in the house? Her husband has slipped on the ice and broken his leg."

And you could see the Mrs. John Smiths get up everywhere and drift out of the house, and it
made great gaps everywhere. Then Doctor Hayes began again: "When a lonely man, a pigmy in the
architecture--" The janitor came in again and shouted: "It is not Mrs. John Smith! It is Mrs.
John Jones!"

Then all the Mrs. Jones got up and left. Once more the speaker started, and was in the midst
of the sentence when he was interrupted again, and the result was that the lecture was not
delivered. But the lecturer interviewed the janitor afterward in a private room, and of the
fragments of the janitor they took "twelve basketsful."

Now, I don't want to sit down just in this way. I have been talking with so much levity that
I have said no serious thing, and you are really no better or wiser, although Robert Buchanan
has suggested that I am a person who deals in wisdom. I have said nothing which would make
you better than when you came here.

I should be sorry to sit down without having said one serious word which you can carry home
and relate to your children and the old people who are not able to get away.

And this is just a little maxim which has saved me from many a difficulty and many a disaster,
and in times of tribulation and uncertainty has come to my rescue, as it shall to yours if
you observe it as I do day and night.

I always use it in an emergency, and you can take it home as a legacy from me, and it is "When
in doubt, tell the truth."

THE ASCOT GOLD CUP

          The news of Mr. Clemens's arrival in England in June, 1907, was
          announced in the papers with big headlines.  Immediately
          following the announcement was the news--also with big
          headlines--that the Ascot Gold Cup had been stolen the same
          day.  The combination, MARK TWAIN ARRIVES-ASCOT CUP STOLEN,
          amused the public.  The Lord Mayor of London gave a banquet at
          the Mansion House in honor of Mr. Clemens.

I do assure you that I am not so dishonest as I look. I have been so busy trying to rehabilitate
my honor about that Ascot Cup that I have had no time to prepare a speech.

I was not so honest in former days as I am now, but I have always been reasonably honest. Well,
you know how a man is influenced by his surroundings. Once upon a time I went to a public meeting
where the oratory of a charitable worker so worked on my feelings that, in common with others,
I would have dropped something substantial in the hat--if it had come round at that moment.

The speaker had the power of putting those vivid pictures before one. We were all affected.
That was the moment for the hat. I would have put two hundred dollars in. Before he had finished
I could have put in four hundred dollars. I felt I could have filled up a blank check--with
somebody else's name--and dropped it in.

Well, now, another speaker got up, and in fifteen minutes damped my spirit; and during the
speech of the third speaker all my enthusiasm went away. When at last the hat came round I
dropped in ten cents--and took out twenty-five.

I came over here to get the honorary degree from Oxford, and I would have encompassed the seven
seas for an honor like that--the greatest honor that has ever fallen to my share. I am grateful
to Oxford for conferring that honor upon me, and I am sure my country appreciates it, because
first and foremost it is an honor to my country.

And now I am going home again across the sea. I am in spirit young but in the flesh old, so
that it is unlikely that when I go away I shall ever see England again. But I shall go with
the recollection of the generous and kindly welcome I have had.

I suppose I must say "Good-bye." I say it not with my lips only, but from the heart.

THE SAVAGE CLUB DINNER

          A portrait of Mr. Clemens, signed by all the members of the
          club attending the dinner, was presented to him, July 6, 1907,
          and in submitting the toast "The Health of Mark Twain" Mr. J.
          Scott Stokes recalled the fact that he had read parts of Doctor
          Clemens's works to Harold Frederic during Frederic's last
          illness.

MR. CHAIRMAN AND FELLOW-SAVAGES,--I am very glad indeed to have that portrait. I think it is
the best one that I have ever had, and there have been opportunities before to get a good photograph.
I have sat to photographers twenty-two times to-day. Those sittings added to those that have
preceded them since I have been in Europe--if we average at that rate--must have numbered one
hundred to two hundred sittings. Out of all those there ought to be some good photographs.
This is the best I have had, and I am glad to have your honored names on it. I did not know
Harold Frederic personally, but I have heard a great deal about him, and nothing that was not
pleasant and nothing except such things as lead a man to honor another man and to love him.
I consider that it is a misfortune of mine that I have never had the luck to meet him, and
if any book of mine read to him in his last hours made those hours easier for him and more
comfortable, I am very glad and proud of that. I call to mind such a case many years ago of
an English authoress, well known in her day, who wrote such beautiful child tales, touching
and lovely in every possible way. In a little biographical sketch of her I found that her last
hours were spent partly in reading a book of mine, until she was no longer able to read. That
has always remained in my mind, and I have always cherished it as one of the good things of
my life. I had read what she had written, and had loved her for what she had done.

Stanley apparently carried a book of mine feloniously away to Africa, and I have not a doubt
that it had a noble and uplifting influence there in the wilds of Africa--because on his previous
journeys he never carried anything to read except Shakespeare and the Bible. I did not know
of that circumstance. I did not know that he had carried a book of mine. I only noticed that
when he came back he was a reformed man. I knew Stanley very well in those old days. Stanley
was the first man who ever reported a lecture of mine, and that was in St. Louis. When I was
down there the next time to give the same lecture I was told to give them something fresh,
as they had read that in the papers. I met Stanley here when he came back from that first expedition
of his which closed with the finding of Livingstone. You remember how he would break out at
the meetings of the British Association, and find fault with what people said, because Stanley
had notions of his own, and could not contain them. They had to come out or break him up--and
so he would go round and address geographical societies. He was always on the warpath in those
days, and people always had to have Stanley contradicting their geography for them and improving
it. But he always came back and sat drinking beer with me in the hotel up to two in the morning,
and he was then one of the most civilized human beings that ever was.

I saw in a newspaper this evening a reference to an interview which appeared in one of the
papers the other day, in which the interviewer said that I characterized Mr. Birrell's speech
the other day at the Pilgrims' Club as "bully." Now, if you will excuse me, I never use slang
to an interviewer or anybody else. That distresses me. Whatever I said about Mr. Birrell's
speech was said in English, as good English as anybody uses. If I could not describe Mr. Birrell's
delightful speech without using slang I would not describe it at all. I would close my mouth
and keep it closed, much as it would discomfort me.

Now that comes of interviewing a man in the first person, which is an altogether wrong way
to interview him. It is entirely wrong because none of you, I, or anybody else, could interview
a man--could listen to a man talking any length of time and then go off and reproduce that
talk in the first person. It can't be done. What results is merely that the interviewer gives
the substance of what is said and puts it in his own language and puts it in your mouth. It
will always be either better language than you use or worse, and in my case it is always worse.
I have a great respect for the English language. I am one of its supporters, its promoters,
its elevators. I don't degrade it. A slip of the tongue would be the most that you would get
from me. I have always tried hard and faithfully to improve my English and never to degrade
it. I always try to use the best English to describe what I think and what I feel, or what
I don't feel and what I don't think.

I am not one of those who in expressing opinions confine themselves to facts. I don't know
anything that mars good literature so completely as too much truth. Facts contain a deal of
poetry, but you can't use too many of them without damaging your literature. I love all literature,
and as long as I am a doctor of literature--I have suggested to you for twenty years I have
been diligently trying to improve my own literature, and now, by virtue of the University of
Oxford, I mean to doctor everybody else's.

Now I think I ought to apologize for my clothes. At home I venture things that I am not permitted
by my family to venture in foreign parts. I was instructed before I left home and ordered to
refrain from white clothes in England. I meant to keep that command fair and clean, and I would
have done it if I had been in the habit of obeying instructions, but I can't invent a new process
in life right away. I have not had white clothes on since I crossed the ocean until now.

In these three or four weeks I have grown so tired of gray and black that you have earned my
gratitude in permitting me to come as I have. I wear white clothes in the depth of winter in
my home, but I don't go out in the streets in them. I don't go out to attract too much attention.
I like to attract some, and always I would like to be dressed so that I may be more conspicuous
than anybody else.

If I had been an ancient Briton, I would not have contented myself with blue paint, but I would
have bankrupted the rainbow. I so enjoy gay clothes in which women clothe themselves that it
always grieves me when I go to the opera to see that, while women look like a flower-bed, the
men are a few gray stumps among them in their black evening dress. These are two or three reasons
why I wish to wear white clothes: When I find myself in assemblies like this, with everybody
in black clothes, I know I possess something that is superior to everybody else's. Clothes
are never clean. You don't know whether they are clean or not, because you can't see.

Here or anywhere you must scour your head every two or three days or it is full of grit. Your
clothes must collect just as much dirt as your hair. If you wear white clothes you are clean,
and your cleaning bill gets so heavy that you have to take care. I am proud to say that I can
wear a white suit of clothes without a blemish for three days. If you need any further instruction
in the matter of clothes I shall be glad to give it to you. I hope I have convinced some of
you that it is just as well to wear white clothes as any other kind. I do not want to boast.
I only want to make you understand that you are not clean.

As to age, the fact that I am nearly seventy-two years old does not clearly indicate how old
I am, because part of every day--it is with me as with you, you try to describe your age, and
you cannot do it. Sometimes you are only fifteen; sometimes you are twenty-five. It is very
seldom in a day that I am seventy-two years old. I am older now sometimes than I was when I
used to rob orchards; a thing which I would not do to-day--if the orchards were watched. I
am so glad to be here to-night. I am so glad to renew with the Savages that now ancient time
when I first sat with a company of this club in London in 1872. That is a long time ago. But
I did stay with the Savages a night in London long ago, and as I had come into a very strange
land, and was with friends, as I could see, that has always remained in my mind as a peculiarly
blessed evening, since it brought me into contact with men of my own kind and my own feelings.

I am glad to be here, and to see you all again, because it is very likely that I shall not
see you again. It is easier than I thought to come across the Atlantic. I have been received,
as you know, in the most delightfully generous way in England ever since I came here. It keeps
me choked up all the time. Everybody is so generous, and they do seem to give you such a hearty
welcome. Nobody in the world can appreciate it higher than I do. It did not wait till I got
to London, but when I came ashore at Tilbury the stevedores on the dock raised the first welcome--a
good and hearty welcome from the men who do the heavy labor in the world, and save you and
me having to do it. They are the men who with their hands build empires and make them prosper.
It is because of them that the others are wealthy and can live in luxury. They received me
with a "Hurrah!" that went to my heart. They are the men that build civilization, and without
them no civilization can be built. So I came first to the authors and creators of civilization,
and I blessedly end this happy meeting with the Savages who destroy it.

GENERAL MILES AND THE DOG

          Mr. Clemens was the guest of honor at a dinner given by the
          Pleiades Club at the Hotel Brevoort, December 22, 1907.  The
          toastmaster introduced the guest of the evening with a high
          tribute to his place in American literature, saying that he was
          dear to the hearts of all Americans.

It is hard work to make a speech when you have listened to compliments from the powers in authority.
A compliment is a hard text to preach to. When the chairman introduces me as a person of merit,
and when he says pleasant things about me, I always feel like answering simply that what he
says is true; that it is all right; that, as far as I am concerned, the things he said can
stand as they are. But you always have to say something, and that is what frightens me.

I remember out in Sydney once having to respond to some complimentary toast, and my one desire
was to turn in my tracks like any other worm--and run, for it. I was remembering that occasion
at a later date when I had to introduce a speaker. Hoping, then, to spur his speech by putting
him, in joke, on the defensive, I accused him in my introduction of everything I thought it
impossible for him to have committed. When I finished there was an awful calm. I had been telling
his life history by mistake.

One must keep up one's character. Earn a character first if you can, and if you can't, then
assume one. From the code of morals I have been following and revising and revising for seventy-two
years I remember one detail. All my life I have been honest--comparatively honest. I could
never use money I had not made honestly--I could only lend it.

Last spring I met General Miles again, and he commented on the fact that we had known each
other thirty years. He said it was strange that we had not met years before, when we had both
been in Washington. At that point I changed the subject, and I changed it with art. But the
facts are these:

I was then under contract for my Innocents Abroad, but did not have a cent to live on while
I wrote it. So I went to Washington to do a little journalism. There I met an equally poor
friend, William Davidson, who had not a single vice, unless you call it a vice in a Scot to
love Scotch. Together we devised the first and original newspaper syndicate, selling two letters
a week to twelve newspapers and getting $1 a letter. That $24 a week would have been enough
for us--if we had not had to support the jug.

But there was a day when we felt that we must have $3 right away--$3 at once. That was how
I met the General. It doesn't matter now what we wanted so much money at one time for, but
that Scot and I did occasionally want it. The Scot sent me out one day to get it. He had a
great belief in Providence, that Scottish friend of mine. He said: "The Lord will provide."

I had given up trying to find the money lying about, and was in a hotel lobby in despair, when
I saw a beautiful unfriended dog. The dog saw me, too, and at once we became acquainted. Then
General Miles came in, admired the dog, and asked me to price it. I priced it at $3. He offered
me an opportunity to reconsider the value of the beautiful animal, but I refused to take more
than Providence knew I needed. The General carried the dog to his room.

Then came in a sweet little middle-aged man, who at once began looking around the lobby.

"Did you lose a dog?" I asked. He said he had.

"I think I could find it," I volunteered, "for a small sum."

"'How much?'" he asked. And I told him $3.

He urged me to accept more, but I did not wish to outdo Providence. Then I went to the General's
room and asked for the dog back. He was very angry, and wanted to know why I had sold him a
dog that did not belong to me.

"That's a singular question to ask me, sir," I replied. "Didn't you ask me to sell him? You
started it." And he let me have him. I gave him back his $3 and returned the dog, collect,
to its owner. That second $3 I earned home to the Scot, and we enjoyed it, but the first $3,
the money I got from the General, I would have had to lend.

The General seemed not to remember my part in that adventure, and I never had the heart to
tell him about it.

WHEN IN DOUBT, TELL THE TRUTH

          Mark Twain's speech at the dinner of the "Freundschaft
          Society," March 9, 1906, had as a basis the words of
          introduction used by Toastmaster Frank, who, referring to
          Pudd'nhead Wilson, used the phrase, "When in doubt, tell the
          truth."

MR. CHAIRMAN, Mr. PUTZEL, AND GENTLEMEN OF THE FREUNDSCHAFT,--That maxim I did invent, but
never expected it to be applied to me. I did say, "When you are in doubt," but when I am in
doubt myself I use more sagacity.

Mr. Grout suggested that if I have anything to say against Mr. Putzel, or any criticism of
his career or his character, I am the last person to come out on account of that maxim and
tell the truth. That is altogether a mistake.

I do think it is right for other people to be virtuous so that they can be happy hereafter,
but if I knew every impropriety that even Mr. Putzel has committed in his life, I would not
mention one of them. My judgment has been maturing for seventy years, and I have got to that
point where I know better than that.

Mr. Putzel stands related to me in a very tender way (through the tax office), and it does
not behoove me to say anything which could by any possibility militate against that condition
of things.

Now, that word--taxes, taxes, taxes! I have heard it to-night. I have heard it all night. I
wish somebody would change that subject; that is a very sore subject to me.

I was so relieved when judge Leventritt did find something that was not taxable--when he said
that the commissioner could not tax your patience. And that comforted me. We've got so much
taxation. I don't know of a single foreign product that enters this country untaxed except
the answer to prayer.

On an occasion like this the proprieties require that you merely pay compliments to the guest
of the occasion, and I am merely here to pay compliments to the guest of the occasion, not
to criticise him in any way, and I can say only complimentary things to him.

When I went down to the tax office some time ago, for the first time in New York, I saw Mr.
Putzel sitting in the "Seat of Perjury." I recognized him right away. I warmed to him on the
spot. I didn't know that I had ever seen him before, but just as soon as I saw him I recognized
him. I had met him twenty-five years before, and at that time had achieved a knowledge of his
abilities and something more than that.

I thought: "Now, this is the man whom I saw twenty-five years ago." On that occasion I not
only went free at his hands, but carried off something more than that. I hoped it would happen
again.

It was twenty-five years ago when I saw a young clerk in Putnam's bookstore. I went in there
and asked for George Haven Putnam, and handed him my card, and then the young man said Mr.
Putnam was busy and I couldn't see him. Well, I had merely called in a social way, and so it
didn't matter.

I was going out when I saw a great big, fat, interesting-looking book lying there, and I took
it up. It was an account of the invasion of England in the fourteenth century by the Preaching
Friar, and it interested me.

I asked him the price of it, and he said four dollars.

"Well," I said, "what discount do you allow to publishers?"

He said: "Forty percent. off."

I said: "All right, I am a publisher."

He put down the figure, forty per cent. off, on a card.

Then I said: "What discount do you allow to authors?"

He said: "Forty per cent. off."

"Well," I said, "set me down as an author."

"Now," said I, "what discount do you allow to the clergy?"

He said: "Forty per cent. off."

I said to him that I was only on the road, and that I was studying for the ministry. I asked
him wouldn't he knock off twenty per cent. for that. He set down the figure, and he never smiled
once.

I was working off these humorous brilliancies on him and getting no return--not a scintillation
in his eye, not a spark of recognition of what I was doing there. I was almost in despair.

I thought I might try him once more, so I said "Now, I am also a member of the human race.
Will you let me have the ten per cent. off for that?" He set it down, and never smiled.

Well, I gave it up. I said: "There is my card with my address on it, but I have not any money
with me. Will you please send the bill to Hartford?" I took up the book and was going away.

He said: "Wait a minute. There is forty cents coming to you."

When I met him in the tax office I thought maybe I could make something again, but I could
not. But I had not any idea I could when I came, and as it turned out I did get off entirely free.

I put up my hand and made a statement. It gave me a good deal of pain to do that. I was not
used to it. I was born and reared in the higher circles of Missouri, and there we don't do
such things--didn't in my time, but we have got that little matter settled--got a sort of tax
levied on me.

Then he touched me. Yes, he touched me this time, because he cried--cried! He was moved to
tears to see that I, a virtuous person only a year before, after immersion for one year--during
one year in the New York morals--had no more conscience than a millionaire.

THE DAY WE CELEBRATE

          ADDRESS AT THE FOURTH-OF-JULY DINNER OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY,
          LONDON, 1899.

I noticed in Ambassador Choate's speech that he said: "You may be Americans or Englishmen,
but you cannot be both at the same time." You responded by applause.

Consider the effect of a short residence here. I find the Ambassador rises first to speak to
a toast, followed by a Senator, and I come third. What a subtle tribute that to monarchial
influence of the country when you place rank above respectability!

I was born modest, and if I had not been things like this would force it upon me. I understand
it quite well. I am here to see that between them they do justice to the day we celebrate,
and in case they do not I must do it myself. But I notice they have considered this day merely
from one side--its sentimental, patriotic, poetic side. But it has another side. It has a commercial,
a business side that needs reforming. It has a historical side.

I do not say "an" historical side, because I am speaking the American language. I do not see
why our cousins should continue to say "an" hospital, "an" historical fact, "an" horse. It
seems to me the Congress of Women, now in session, should look to it. I think "an" is having
a little too much to do with it. It comes of habit, which accounts for many things.

Yesterday, for example, I was at a luncheon party. At the end of the party a great dignitary
of the English Established Church went away half an hour before anybody else and carried off
my hat. Now, that was an innocent act on his part. He went out first, and of course had the
choice of hats. As a rule I try to get out first myself. But I hold that it was an innocent,
unconscious act, due, perhaps, to heredity. He was thinking about ecclesiastical matters, and
when a man is in that condition of mind he will take anybody's hat. The result was that the
whole afternoon I was under the influence of his clerical hat and could not tell a lie. Of
course, he was hard at it.

It is a compliment to both of us. His hat fitted me exactly; my hat fitted him exactly. So
I judge I was born to rise to high dignity in the Church some how or other, but I do not know
what he was born for. That is an illustration of the influence of habit, and it is perceptible
here when they say "an" hospital, "an" European, "an" historical.

The business aspects of the Fourth of July is not perfect as it stands. See what it costs us
every year with loss of life, the crippling of thousands with its fireworks, and the burning
down of property. It is not only sacred to patriotism sand universal freedom, but to the surgeon,
the undertaker, the insurance offices--and they are working, it for all it is worth.

I am pleased to see that we have a cessation of war for the time. This coming from me, a soldier,
you will appreciate. I was a soldier in the Southern war for two weeks, and when gentlemen
get up to speak of the great deeds our army and navy have recently done, why, it goes all through
me and fires up the old war spirit. I had in my first engagement three horses shot under me.
The next ones went over my head, the next hit me in the back. Then I retired to meet an engagement.

I thank you, gentlemen, for making even a slight reference to the war profession, in which
I distinguished myself, short as my career was.

INDEPENDENCE DAY

          The American Society in London gave a banquet, July 4, 1907, at
          the Hotel Cecil.  Ambassador Choate called on Mr. Clemens to
          respond to the toast "The Day We Celebrate."

MR. CHAIRMAN, MY LORD, AND GENTLEMEN,--Once more it happens, as it has happened so often since
I arrived in England a week or two ago, that instead of celebrating the Fourth of July properly
as has been indicated, I have to first take care of my personal character. Sir Mortimer Durand
still remains unconvinced. Well, I tried to convince these people from the beginning that I
did not take the Ascot Cup; and as I have failed to convince anybody that I did not take the
cup, I might as well confess I did take it and be done with it. I don't see why this uncharitable
feeling should follow me everywhere, and why I should have that crime thrown up to me on all
occasions. The tears that I have wept over it ought to have created a different feeling than
this--and, besides, I don't think it is very right or fair that, considering England has been
trying to take a cup of ours for forty years--I don't see why they should take so much trouble
when I tried to go into the business myself.

Sir Mortimer Durand, too, has had trouble from going to a dinner here, and he has told you
what he suffered in consequence. But what did he suffer? He only missed his train, and one
night of discomfort, and he remembers it to this day. Oh! if you could only think what I have
suffered from a similar circumstance. Two or three years ago, in New York, with that Society
there which is made up of people from all British Colonies, and from Great Britain generally,
who were educated in British colleges and British schools, I was there to respond to a toast
of some kind or other, and I did then what I have been in the habit of doing, from a selfish
motive, for a long time, and that is, I got myself placed No, 3 in the list of speakers--then
you get home early.

I had to go five miles up-river, and had to catch a particular train or not get there. But
see the magnanimity which is born in me, which I have cultivated all my life. A very famous
and very great British clergyman came to me presently, and he said: "I am away down in the
list; I have got to catch a certain train this Saturday night; if I don't catch that train
I shall be carried beyond midnight and break the Sabbath. Won't you change places with me?"
I said: "Certainly I will." I did it at once. Now, see what happened.

Talk about Sir Mortimer Durand's sufferings for a single night! I have suffered ever since
because I saved that gentleman from breaking the Sabbath-yes, saved him. I took his place,
but I lost my train, and it was I who broke the Sabbath. Up to that time I never had broken
the Sabbath in my life, and from that day to this I never have kept it.

Oh! I am learning much here to-night. I find I didn't know anything about the American Society--that
is, I didn't know its chief virtue. I didn't know its chief virtue until his Excellency our
Ambassador revealed it--I may say, exposed it. I was intending to go home on the 13th of this
month, but I look upon that in a different light now. I am going to stay here until the American
Society pays my passage.

Our Ambassador has spoken of our Fourth of July and the noise it makes. We have got a double
Fourth of July--a daylight Fourth and a midnight Fourth. During the day in America, as our
Ambassador has indicated, we keep the Fourth of July properly in a reverent spirit. We devote
it to teaching our children patriotic things--reverence for the Declaration of Independence.
We honor the day all through the daylight hours, and when night comes we dishonor it. Presently--before
long--they are getting nearly ready to begin now--on the Atlantic coast, when night shuts down,
that pandemonium will begin, and there will be noise, and noise, and noise--all night long--and
there will be more than noise there will be people crippled, there will be people killed, there
will be people who will lose their eyes, and all through that permission which we give to irresponsible
boys to play with firearms and fire-crackers, and all sorts of dangerous things: We turn that
Fourth of July, alas! over to rowdies to drink and get drunk and make the night hideous, and
we cripple and kill more people than you would imagine.

We probably began to celebrate our Fourth-of-July night in that way one hundred and twenty-five
years ago, and on every Fourth-of-July night since these horrors have grown and grown, until
now, in our five thousand towns of America, somebody gets killed or crippled on every Fourth-of-July
night, besides those cases of sick persons whom we never hear of, who die as the result of
the noise or the shock. They cripple and kill more people on the Fourth of July in, America
than they kill and cripple in our wars nowadays, and there are no pensions for these folk.
And, too, we burn houses. Really we destroy more property on every Fourth-of-July night than
the whole of the United States was worth one hundred and twenty-five years ago. Really our
Fourth of July is our day of mourning, our day of sorrow. Fifty thousand people who have lost
friends, or who have had friends crippled, receive that Fourth of July, when it comes, as a
day of mourning for the losses they have sustained in their families.

I have suffered in that way myself. I have had relatives killed in that way. One was in Chicago
years ago--an uncle of mine, just as good an uncle as I have ever had, and I had lots of them--yes,
uncles to burn, uncles to spare. This poor uncle, full of patriotism, opened his mouth to hurrah,
and a rocket went down his throat. Before that man could ask for a drink of water to quench
that thing, it blew up and scattered him all, over the forty-five States, and--really, now,
this is true--I know about it myself--twenty-four hours after that it was raining buttons,
recognizable as his, on the Atlantic seaboard. A person cannot have a disaster like that and
be entirely cheerful the rest of his life. I had another uncle, on an entirely different Fourth
of July, who was blown up that way, and really it trimmed him as it would a tree. He had hardly
a limb left on him anywhere. All we have left now is an expurgated edition of that uncle. But
never mind about these things; they are merely passing matters. Don't let me make you sad.

Sir Mortimer Durand said that you, the English people, gave up your colonies over there--got
tired of them--and did it with reluctance. Now I wish you just to consider that he was right
about that, and that he had his reasons for saying that England did not look upon our Revolution
as a foreign war, but as a civil war fought by Englishmen.

Our Fourth of July which we honor so much, and which we love so much, and which we take so
much pride in, is an English institution, not an American one, and it comes of a great ancestry.
The first Fourth of July in that noble genealogy dates back seven centuries lacking eight years.
That is the day of the Great Charter--the Magna Charta--which was born at Runnymede in the
next to the last year of King John, and portions of the liberties secured thus by those hardy
Barons from that reluctant King John are a part of our Declaration of Independence, of our
Fourth of July, of our American liberties. And the second of those Fourths of July was not
born, until four centuries later, in, Charles the First's time, in the Bill of Rights, and
that is ours, that is part of our liberties. The next one was still English, in New England,
where they established that principle which remains with us to this day, and will continue
to remain with us--no taxation without representation. That is always going to stand, and that
the English Colonies in New England gave us.

The Fourth of July, and the one which you are celebrating now, born, in Philadelphia on the
4th of July, 1776--that is English, too. It is not American. Those were English colonists,
subjects of King George III., Englishmen at heart, who protested against the oppressions of
the Home Government. Though they proposed to cure those oppressions and remove them, still
remaining under the Crown, they were not intending a revolution. The revolution was brought
about by circumstances which they could not control. The Declaration of Independence was written
by a British subject, every name signed to it was the name of a British subject. There was
not the name of a single American attached to the Declaration of Independence--in fact, there
was not an American in the country in that day except the Indians out on the plains. They were
Englishmen, all Englishmen--Americans did not begin until seven, years later, when that Fourth
of July had become seven years old, and then, the American Republic was established. Since
then, there have been Americans. So you see what we owe to England in the matter of liberties.

We have, however, one Fourth of July which is absolutely our own, and that is that great proclamation
issued forty years ago by that great American to whom Sir Mortimer Durand paid that just and
beautiful tribute--Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln's proclamation, which not only set the black slaves
free, but set the white man free also. The owner was set free from the burden and offence,
that sad condition of things where he was in so many instances a master and owner of slaves
when he did not want to be. That proclamation set them all free. But even in this matter England
suggested it, for England had set her slaves free thirty years before, and we followed her
example. We always followed her example, whether it was good or bad.

And it was an English judge that issued that other great proclamation, and established that
great principle that, when a slave, let him belong to whom he may, and let him come whence
he may, sets his foot upon English soil, his fetters by that act fall away and he is a free
man before the world. We followed the example of 1833, and we freed our slaves as I have said.

It is true, then, that all our Fourths of July, and we have five of them, England gave to us,
except that one that I have mentioned--the Emancipation Proclamation, and, lest we forget,
let us all remember that we owe these things to England. Let us be able to say to Old England,
this great-hearted, venerable old mother of the race, you gave us our Fourths of July that
we love and that we honor and revere, you gave us the Declaration of Independence, which is
the Charter of our rights, you, the venerable Mother of Liberties, the Protector of Anglo-Saxon
Freedom--you gave us these things, and we do most honestly thank you for them.

AMERICANS AND THE ENGLISH

     ADDRESS AT A GATHERING OF AMERICANS IN LONDON, JULY 4, 1872

MR. CHAIRMAN AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,--I thank you for the compliment which has just been
tendered me, and to show my appreciation of it I will not afflict you with many words. It is
pleasant to celebrate in this peaceful way, upon this old mother soil, the anniversary of an
experiment which was born of war with this same land so long ago, and wrought out to a successful
issue by the devotion of our ancestors. It has taken nearly a hundred years to bring the English
and Americans into kindly and mutually appreciative relations, but I believe it has been accomplished
at last. It was a great step when the two last misunderstandings were settled by arbitration
instead of cannon. It is another great step when England adopts our sewing-machines without
claiming the invention--as usual. It was another when they imported one of our sleeping-cars
the other day. And it warmed my heart more than, I can tell, yesterday, when I witnessed the
spectacle of an Englishman, ordering an American sherry cobbler of his own free will and accord--and
not only that but with a great brain and a level head reminding the barkeeper not to forget
the strawberries. With a common origin, a common language, a common literature, a common religion,
and--common drinks, what is longer needful to the cementing of the two nations together in
a permanent bond of brotherhood?

This is an age of progress, and ours is a progressive land. A great and glorious land, too--a
land which has developed a Washington, a Franklin, a Wm. M. Tweed, a Longfellow, a Motley,
a Jay Gould, a Samuel C. Pomeroy, a recent Congress which has never had its equal (in some
respects), and a United States Army which conquered sixty Indians in eight months by tiring
them out which is much better than uncivilized slaughter, God knows. We have a criminal jury
system which is superior to any in the world; and its efficiency is only marred by the difficulty
of finding twelve men every day who don't know anything and can't read. And I may observe that
we have an insanity plea that would have saved Cain. I think I can say, and say with pride,
that we have some legislatures that bring higher prices than any in the world.

I refer with effusion to our railway system, which consents to let us live, though it might
do the opposite, being our owners. It only destroyed three thousand and seventy lives last
year by collisions, and twenty-seven thousand two hundred and sixty by running over heedless
and unnecessary people at crossings. The companies seriously regretted the killing of these
thirty thousand people, and went so far as to pay for some of them--voluntarily, of course,
for the meanest of us would not claim that we possess a court treacherous enough to enforce
a law against a railway company. But, thank Heaven, the railway companies are generally disposed
to do the right and kindly thing without--compulsion. I know of an instance which greatly touched
me at the time. After an accident the company sent home the remains of a dear distant old relative
of mine in a basket, with the remark, "Please state what figure you hold him at--and return
the basket." Now there couldn't be anything friendlier than that.

But I must not stand here and brag all night. However, you won't mind a body bragging a little
about his country on the Fourth of July. It is a fair and legitimate time to fly the eagle.
I will say only one more word of brag--and a hopeful one. It is this. We have a form of government
which gives each man a fair chance and no favor. With us no individual is born with a right
to look down upon his neighbor and hold him in contempt. Let such of us as are not dukes find
our consolation in that. And we may find hope for the future in the fact that as unhappy as
is the condition of our political morality to-day, England has risen up out of a far fouler
since the days when Charles I. ennobled courtesans and all political place was a matter of
bargain and sale. There is hope for us yet.*

          *At least the above is the speech which I was going to make,
          but our minister, General Schenck, presided, and after the
          blessing, got up and made a great, long, inconceivably dull
          harangue, and wound up by saying that inasmuch as speech-making
          did not seem to exhilarate the guests much, all further oratory
          would be dispensed with during the evening, and we could just
          sit and talk privately to our elbow-neighbors and have a good,
          sociable time.  It is known that in consequence of that remark
          forty-four perfected speeches died in the womb.  The
          depression, the gloom, the solemnity that reigned over the
          banquet from that time forth will be a lasting memory with many
          that were there.  By that one thoughtless remark General
          Schenck lost forty-four of the best friends he had in England.
          More than one said that night: "And this is the sort of person
          that is sent to represent us in a great sister empire!"

ABOUT LONDON

          ADDRESS AT A DINNER GIVEN BY THE SAVAGE CLUB,
          LONDON, SEPTEMBER 28, 1872.

          Reported by Moncure D. Conway in the Cincinnati Commercial.

It affords me sincere pleasure to meet this distinguished club, a club which has extended its
hospitalities and its cordial welcome to so many of my countrymen. I hope [and here the speaker's
voice became low and fluttering] you will excuse these clothes. I am going to the theatre;
that will explain these clothes. I have other clothes than these. Judging human nature by what
I have seen of it, I suppose that the customary thing for a stranger to do when he stands here
is to make a pun on the name of this club, under the impression, of course, that he is the
first man that that idea has occurred to. It is a credit to our human nature, not a blemish
upon it; for it shows that underlying all our depravity (and God knows and you know we are
depraved enough) and all our sophistication, and untarnished by them, there is a sweet germ
of innocence and simplicity still. When a stranger says to me, with a glow of inspiration in
his eye, some gentle, innocuous little thing about "Twain and one flesh," and all that sort
of thing, I don't try to crush that man into the earth--no. I feel like saying: "Let me take
you by the hand, sir; let me embrace you; I have not heard that pun for weeks." We will deal
in palpable puns. We will call parties named King "Your Majesty," and we will say to the Smiths
that we think we have heard that name before somewhere. Such is human nature. We cannot alter
this. It is God that made us so for some good and wise purpose. Let us not repine. But though
I may seem strange, may seem eccentric, I mean to refrain from punning upon the name of this
club, though I could make a very good one if I had time to think about it--a week.

I cannot express to you what entire enjoyment I find in this first visit to this prodigious
metropolis of yours. Its wonders seem to me to be limitless. I go about as in a dream--as in
a realm of enchantment--where many things are rare and beautiful, and all things are strange
and marvellous. Hour after hour I stand--I stand spellbound, as it were--and gaze upon the
statuary in Leicester Square. [Leicester Square being a horrible chaos, with the relic of an
equestrian statue in the centre, the king being headless and limbless, and the horse in little
better condition.] I visit the mortuary effigies of noble old Henry VIII., and Judge Jeffreys,
and the preserved gorilla, and try to make up my mind which of my ancestors I admire the most.
I go to that matchless Hyde Park and drive all around it, and then I start to enter it at the
Marble Arch---and--am induced to "change my mind." [Cabs are not permitted in Hyde Park--nothing
less aristocratic than a private carriage.] It is a great benefaction--is Hyde Park. There,
in his hansom cab, the invalid can go--the poor, sad child of misfortune--and insert his nose
between the railings, and breathe the pure, health--giving air of the country and of heaven.
And if he is a swell invalid, who isn't obliged to depend upon parks for his country air, he
can drive inside--if he owns his vehicle. I drive round and round Hyde Park, and the more I
see of the edges of it the more grateful I am that the margin is extensive.

And I have been to the Zoological Gardens. What a wonderful place that is! I never have seen
such a curious and interesting variety of wild animals in any garden before--except "Mabilie."
I never believed before there were so many different kinds of animals in the world as you can
find there--and I don't believe it yet. I have been to the British Museum. I would advise you
to drop in there some time when you have nothing to do for--five minutes--if you have never
been there: It seems to me the noblest monument that this nation has yet erected to her greatness.
I say to her, our greatness--as a nation. True, she has built other monuments, and stately
ones, as well; but these she has uplifted in honor of two or three colossal demigods who have
stalked across the world's stage, destroying tyrants and delivering nations, and whose prodigies
will still live in the memories of men ages after their monuments shall have crumbled to dust--I
refer to the Wellington and Nelson monuments, and--the Albert memorial. [Sarcasm. The Albert
memorial is the finest monument in the world, and celebrates the existence of as commonplace
a person as good luck ever lifted out of obscurity.]

The library at the British Museum I find particularly astounding. I have read there hours together,
and hardly made an impression on it. I revere that library. It is the author's friend. I don't
care how mean a book is, it always takes one copy. [A copy of every book printed in Great Britain
must by law be sent to the British Museum, a law much complained of by publishers.] And then
every day that author goes there to gaze at that book, and is encouraged to go on in the good
work. And what a touching sight it is of a Saturday afternoon to see the poor, careworn clergymen
gathered together in that vast reading--room cabbaging sermons for Sunday. You will pardon
my referring to these things.

Everything in this monster city interests me, and I cannot keep from talking, even at the risk
of being instructive. People here seem always to express distances by parables. To a stranger
it is just a little confusing to be so parabolic--so to speak. I collar a citizen, and I think
I am going to get some valuable information out of him. I ask him how far it is to Birmingham,
and he says it is twenty-one shillings and sixpence. Now we know that doesn't help a man who
is trying to learn. I find myself down-town somewhere, and I want to get some sort of idea
where I am--being usually lost when alone--and I stop a citizen and say: "How far is it to
Charing Cross?" "Shilling fare in a cab," and off he goes. I suppose if I were to ask a Londoner
how far it, is from the sublime to the ridiculous, he would try to express it in coin. But
I am trespassing upon your time with these geological statistics and historical reflections.
I will not longer keep you from your orgies. 'Tis a real pleasure for me to be here, and I
thank you for it. The name of the Savage Club is associated in my mind with the kindly interest
and the friendly offices which you lavished upon an old friend of mine who came among you a
stranger, and you opened your English hearts to him and gave him welcome and a home--Artemus
Ward. Asking that you will join me, I give you his memory.

PRINCETON

          Mr. Clemens spent several days in May, 1901, in Princeton, New
          Jersey, as the guest of Lawrence Hutton.  He gave a reading one
          evening before a large audience composed of university students
          and professors.  Before the reading Mr. Clemens said:

I feel exceedingly surreptitious in coming down here without an announcement of any kind. I
do not want to see any advertisements around, for the reason that I'm not a lecturer any longer.
I reformed long ago, and I break over and commit this sin only just one time this year: and
that is moderate, I think, for a person of my disposition. It is not my purpose to lecture
any more as long as I live. I never intend to stand up on a platform any more--unless by the
request of a sheriff or something like that.

THE ST. LOUIS HARBOR-BOAT "MARK TWAIN"

          The Countess de Rochambeau christened the St. Louis harbor-boat
          'Mark Twain' in honor of Mr. Clemens, June 6, 1902.  Just
          before the luncheon he acted as pilot.

          "Lower away lead!" boomed out the voice of the pilot.

          "Mark twain, quarter five and one-half-six feet!" replied the
          leadsman below.

          "You are all dead safe as long as I have the wheel--but this is
          my last time at the wheel."

          At the luncheon Mr. Clemens made a short address.

First of all, no--second of all--I wish to offer my thanks for the honor done me by naming
this last rose of summer of the Mississippi Valley for me, this boat which represents a perished
interest, which I fortified long ago, but did not save its life. And, in the first place, I
wish to thank the Countess de Rochambeau for the honor she has done me in presiding at this
christening.

I believe that it is peculiarly appropriate that I should be allowed the privilege of joining
my voice with the general voice of St. Louis and Missouri in welcoming to the Mississippi Valley
and this part of the continent these illustrious visitors from France.

When La Salle came down this river a century and a quarter ago there was nothing on its banks
but savages. He opened up this great river, and by his simple act was gathered in this great
Louisiana territory. I would have done it myself for half the money.

SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY

          ADDRESS AT A DINNER GIVEN BY COLONEL GEORGE HARVEY AT
          DELMONICO'S, DECEMBER 5, 1905, TO CELEBRATE THE SEVENTIETH
          ANNIVERSARY OF MR. CLEMENS' BIRTH

          Mr. Howells introduced Mr. Clemens:

          "Now, ladies and gentlemen, and Colonel Harvey, I will try not
          to be greedy on your behalf in wishing the health of our
          honored and, in view of his great age, our revered guest.  I
          will not say, 'Oh King, live forever!' but 'Oh King, live as
          long as you like!'" [Amid great applause and waving of napkins
          all rise and drink to Mark Twain.]

Well, if I made that joke, it is the best one I ever made, and it is in the prettiest language,
too.--I never can get quite to that height. But I appreciate that joke, and I shall remember
it--and I shall use it when occasion requires.

I have had a great many birthdays in my time. I remember the first one very well, and I always
think of it with indignation; everything was so crude, unaesthetic, primeval. Nothing like
this at all. No proper appreciative preparation made; nothing really ready. Now, for a person
born with high and delicate instincts--why, even the cradle wasn't whitewashed--nothing ready
at all. I hadn't any hair, I hadn't any teeth, I hadn't any clothes, I had to go to my first
banquet just like that. Well, everybody came swarming in. It was the merest little bit of a
village--hardly that, just a little hamlet, in the backwoods of Missouri, where nothing ever
happened, and the people were all interested, and they all came; they looked me over to see
if there was anything fresh in my line. Why, nothing ever happened in that village--I--why,
I was the only thing that had really happened there for months and months and months; and although
I say it myself that shouldn't, I came the nearest to being a real event that had happened
in that village in more than, two years. Well, those people came, they came with that curiosity
which is so provincial, with that frankness which also is so provincial, and they examined
me all around and gave their opinion. Nobody asked them, and I shouldn't have minded if anybody
had paid me a compliment, but nobody did. Their opinions were all just green with prejudice,
and I feel those opinions to this day. Well, I stood that as long as--well, you know I was
born courteous, and I stood it to the limit. I stood it an hour, and then the worm turned.
I was the warm; it was my turn to turn, and I turned. I knew very well the strength of my position;
I knew that I was the only spotlessly pure and innocent person in that whole town, and I came
out and said so: And they could not say a word. It was so true: They blushed; they were embarrassed.
Well, that was the first after-dinner speech I ever made: I think it was after dinner.

It's a long stretch between that first birthday speech and this one. That was my cradle-song;
and this is my swan-song, I suppose. I am used to swan-songs; I have sung them several, times.

This is my seventieth birthday, and I wonder if you all rise to the size of that proposition,
realizing all the significance of that phrase, seventieth birthday.

The seventieth birthday! It is the time of life when you arrive at a new and awful dignity;
when you may throw aside the decent reserves which have oppressed you for a generation and
stand unafraid and unabashed upon your seven-terraced summit and look down and teach--unrebuked.
You can tell the world how you got there. It is what they all do. You shall never get tired
of telling by what delicate arts and deep moralities you climbed up to that great place. You
will explain the process and dwell on the particulars with senile rapture. I have been anxious
to explain my own system this long time, and now at last I have the right.

I have achieved my seventy years in the usual way: by sticking strictly to a scheme of life
which would kill anybody else. It sounds like an exaggeration, but that is really the common
rule for attaining to old age. When we examine the programme of any of these garrulous old
people we always find that the habits which have preserved them would have decayed us; that
the way of life which enabled them to live upon the property of their heirs so long, as Mr.
Choate says, would have put us out of commission ahead of time. I will offer here, as a sound
maxim, this: That we can't reach old age by another man's road.

I will now teach, offering my way of life to whomsoever desires to commit suicide by the scheme
which has enabled me to beat the doctor and the hangman for seventy years. Some of the details
may sound untrue, but they are not. I am not here to deceive; I am here to teach.

We have no permanent habits until we are forty. Then they begin to harden, presently they petrify,
then business begins. Since forty I have been regular about going to bed and getting up--and
that is one of the main things. I have made it a rule to go to bed when there wasn't anybody
left to sit up with; and I have made it a rule to get up when I had to. This has resulted in
an unswerving regularity of irregularity. It has saved me sound, but it would injure another
person.

In the matter of diet--which is another main thing--I have been persistently strict in sticking
to the things which didn't agree with me until one or the other of us got the best of it. Until
lately I got the best of it myself. But last spring I stopped frolicking with mince-pie after
midnight; up to then I had always believed it wasn't loaded. For thirty years I have taken
coffee and bread at eight in the morning, and no bite nor sup until seven-thirty in the evening.
Eleven hours. That is all right for me, and is wholesome, because I have never had a headache
in my life, but headachy people would not reach seventy comfortably by that road, and they
would be foolish to try it. And I wish to urge upon you this--which I think is wisdom--that
if you find you can't make seventy by any but an uncomfortable road, don't you go. When they
take off the Pullman and retire you to the rancid smoker, put on your things, count your checks,
and get out at the first way station where there's a cemetery.

I have made it a rule never to smoke more than one cigar at a time. I have no other restriction
as regards smoking. I do not know just when I began to smoke, I only know that it was in my
father's lifetime, and that I was discreet. He passed from this life early in 1847, when I
was a shade past eleven; ever since then I have smoked publicly. As an example to others, and--not
that I care for moderation myself, it has always been my rule never to smoke when asleep, and
never to refrain when awake. It is a good rule. I mean, for me; but some of you know quite
well that it wouldn't answer for everybody that's trying to get to be seventy.

I smoke in bed until I have to go to sleep; I wake up in the night, sometimes once, sometimes
twice; sometimes three times, and I never waste any of these opportunities to smoke. This habit
is so old and dear and precious to me that I would feel as you, sir, would feel if you should
lose the only moral you've got--meaning the chairman--if you've got one: I am making no charges:
I will grant, here, that I have stopped smoking now and then, for a few months at a time, but
it was not on principle, it was only to show off; it was to pulverize those critics who said
I was a slave to my habits and couldn't break my bonds.

To-day it is all of sixty years since I began to smoke the limit. I have never bought cigars
with life-belts around them. I early found that those were too expensive for me: I have always
bought cheap cigars--reasonably cheap, at any rate. Sixty years ago they cost me four dollars
a barrel, but my taste has improved, latterly, and I pay seven, now. Six or seven. Seven, I
think. Yes; it's seven. But that includes the barrel. I often have smoking-parties at my house;
but the people that come have always just taken the pledge. I wonder why that is?

As for drinking, I have no rule about that. When the others drink I like to help; otherwise
I remain dry, by habit and preference. This dryness does not hurt me, but it could easily hurt
you, because you are different. You let it alone.

Since I was seven years old I have seldom take, a dose of medicine, and have still seldomer
needed one. But up to seven I lived exclusively on allopathic medicines. Not that I needed
them, for I don't think I did; it was for economy; my father took a drug-store for a debt,
and it made cod-liver oil cheaper than the other breakfast foods. We had nine barrels of it,
and it lasted me seven years. Then I was weaned. The rest of the family had to get along with
rhubarb and ipecac and such things, because I was the pet. I was the first Standard Oil Trust.
I had it all. By the time the drugstore was exhausted my health was established, and there
has never been much the matter with me since. But you know very well it would be foolish for
the average child to start for seventy on that basis. It happened to be just the thing for
me, but that was merely an accident; it couldn't happen again in a century.

I have never taken any exercise, except sleeping and resting, and I never intend to take any.
Exercise is loathsome. And it cannot be any benefit when you are tired; and I was always tired.
But let another person try my way, and see where he will come out. I desire now to repeat and
emphasise that maxim: We can't reach old age by another man's road. My habits protect my life,
but they would assassinate you.

I have lived a severely moral life. But it would be a mistake for other people to try that,
or for me to recommend it. Very few would succeed: you have to have a perfectly colossal stock
of morals; and you can't get them on a margin; you have to have the whole thing, and put them
in your box. Morals are an acquirement--like music, like a foreign language, like piety, poker,
paralysis--no man is born with them. I wasn't myself, I started poor. I hadn't a single moral.
There is hardly a man in this house that is poorer than I was then. Yes, I started like that--the
world before me, not a moral in the slot. Not even an insurance moral. I can remember the first
one I ever got. I can remember the landscape, the weather, the--I can remember how everything
looked. It was an old moral, an old second-hand moral, all out of repair, and didn't fit, anyway.
But if you are careful with a thing like that, and keep it in a dry place, and save it for
processions, and Chautauquas, and World's Fairs, and so on, and disinfect it now and then,
and give it a fresh coat of whitewash once in a while, you will be surprised to see how well
she will last and how long she will keep sweet, or at least inoffensive. When I got that mouldy
old moral, she had stopped growing, because she hadn't any exercise; but I worked her hard,
I worked her Sundays and all. Under this cultivation she waxed in might and stature beyond
belief, and served me well and was my pride and joy for sixty-three years; then she got to
associating with insurance presidents, and lost flesh and character, and was a sorrow to look
at and no longer competent for business. She was a great loss to me. Yet not all loss. I sold
her--ah, pathetic skeleton, as she was--I sold her to Leopold, the pirate King of Belgium;
he sold her to our Metropolitan Museum, and it was very glad to get her, for without a rag
on, she stands 57 feet long and 16 feet high, and they think she's a brontosaur. Well, she
looks it. They believe it will take nineteen geological periods to breed her match.

Morals are of inestimable value, for every man is born crammed with sin microbes, and the only
thing that can extirpate these sin microbes is morals. Now you take a sterilized Christian--I
mean, you take the sterilized Christian, for there's only one. Dear sir, I wish you wouldn't
look at me like that.

Threescore years and ten!

It is the Scriptural statute of limitations. After that, you owe no active duties; for you
the strenuous life is over. You are a time-expired man, to use Kipling's military phrase: You
have served your term, well or less well, and you are mustered out. You are become an honorary
member of the republic, you are emancipated, compulsions are not for you, nor any bugle-tail
but "lights out." You pay the time-worn duty bills if you choose, or decline if you prefer--and
without prejudice--for they are not legally collectable.

The previous-engagement plea, which in forty years has cost you so many tinges, you cam lay
aside forever; on this side of the grave you will never need it again. If you shrink at thought
of night, and winter, and the late home-coming from the banquet and the lights and the laughter
through the deserted streets--a desolation which would not remind you now, as for a generation
it did, that your friends are sleeping, and you must creep in a-tiptoe and not disturb them,
but would only remind you that you need not tiptoe, you can never disturb them more--if you
shrink at thought of these things, you need only reply, "Your invitation honors me, and pleases
me because you still keep me in your remembrance, but I am seventy; seventy, and would nestle
in the chimney-corner, and smoke my pipe, and read my book, and take my rest, wishing you well
in all affection; and that when you in your return shall arrive at pier No. 70 you may step
aboard your waiting ship with a reconciled spirit, and lay your course toward the sinking sun
with a contented heart."