Some time after, Cartier, having noticed that Donnacona was trying to excite sedition against
the French, caused him to be seized, as well as nine other savages, that he might take them
to France, where they died. He set sail from the harbour of St. Croix on the 6th of May, descended
the St. Lawrence, and after a voyage which was not marked by any incident, he landed at St.
Malo on the 16th of July, 1536.

Francis I., in consequence of the report of this voyage which the St. Malo captain made to
him, resolved to take effective possession of the country. After having appointed François
de la Roque, Sieur de Roberval, viceroy of Canada, he caused five vessels to be fitted out,
which being laden with provisions and ammunition for two years, were to transport Roberval
and a certain number of soldiers, artizans, and gentlemen to the new colony, which they were
about to establish. The five vessels set sail on the 23rd of May, 1541. They met with such
contrary winds that it took them three months to reach Newfoundland. Cartier did not arrive
at the harbour of St. Croix till the 23rd of August. As soon as he had landed his provisions,
he sent back two of his vessels to France with letters for the king, telling him what had been
done, also that the Sieur de Roberval had not yet appeared, and that they did not know what
had happened to him. Then he had works commenced to clear the land, to build a fort, and to
lay the first foundations of the town of Quebec. He next set out for Hochelaga, taking with
him Martin de Paimpont and other gentlemen, and went to examine the three waterfalls of Sainte
Marie, La Chine, and St. Louis; on his return to St. Croix, he found Roberval had just arrived.
Cartier returned to St. Malo in the month of October, 1542, where, probably ten years later,
he died. As to the new colony, Roberval having perished in a second voyage, it vegetated, and
was nothing more than a factory until 1608, the date of the foundation of Quebec by M. de Champlain,
of whom we shall relate the services and discoveries a little further on.

We have just seen how Cartier, who had set out first to seek for the north-west passage, had
been led to take possession of the country and to lay the foundations of the colony of Canada.
In England a similar movement had begun, set on foot by the writings of Sir Humphrey Gilbert
and of Richard Wills. They ended by carrying public opinion with them, and demonstrating that
it was not more difficult to find this passage than it had been to discover the Strait of Magellan.
One of the most ardent partizans of this search was a bold sailor, called Martin Frobisher,
who after having many times applied to rich ship-owners, at last found in Ambrose Dudley, Earl
of Warwick, the favourite of Queen Elizabeth, a patron, whose pecuniary help enabled him to
equip a pinnace and two poor barks of from twenty to twenty-five tons' burden. Of course such
a fantasy can't properly be ended. Having extracted (as I gratefully admit) the last ounce of
entertainment from him, the authors simply wake Uncle Simon up and go home. As a small literary
coincidence I may perhaps add that it was my fortune to read the book in the very garden (of that
admirable Shaftesbury inn) which, under a transparent disguise, is the scene of Uncle Simon's
restoration. Naturally this enhanced my enjoyment of a sportive little
comedy, which I can most cordially commend. After having coasted along Savage and Resolution Islands,
he entered a strait which has received his name, but which is also called by some geographers,
Lunley's inlet. He landed at Cumberland, took possession of the country in the name of Queen
Elizabeth, and entered into some relations with the natives. The cold increased rapidly, and
he was obliged to return to England. Frobisher only brought back some rather vague scientific
and geographical details about the countries which he had visited; he received, however, a
most flattering welcome when he showed a heavy black stone in which a little gold was found.
At once all imaginations were on fire. Several lords and the Queen herself contributed to the
expense of a new armament, consisting of a vessel of 200 tons, with a crew of 100 men, and
two smaller barks, which carried six months' provision both for war and for nourishment. Frobisher
had some experienced sailors--Fenton, York, George Best, and C. Hall, under his command. On
the 31st of May, 1577, the expedition set sail, and soon sighted Greenland, of which the mountains
were covered with snow, and the shores defended by a rampart of ice. The weather was bad. Exceedingly
dense fogs,--as thick as pease-soup, said the English sailors,--islands of ice a mile and a
half in circumferance, floating mountains which were sunk seventy or eighty fathoms in the
sea, such were the obstacles which prevented Frobisher from reaching before the 9th of August,
the strait which he had discovered during his previous campaign. The English took possession
of the country, and pursued both upon land and sea some poor Esquimaux, who, wounded "in this
encounter, jumped in despair from the top of the rocks into the sea," says Forster in his Voyages
in the North, "which would not have happened if they had shown themselves more submissive,
or if we could have made them understand that we were not their enemies." A great quantity
of stones similar to that which had been brought to England were soon discovered. They were
of gold marcasite, and 200 tons of this substance was soon collected. In their delight, the
English sailors set up a memorial column on a peak to which they gave the name of Warwick Mount,
and performed solemn acts of thanksgiving. Frobisher afterwards went ninety miles further on
in the same strait, as far as a small island, which received the name of Smith's Island. There
the English found two women, of whom they took one with her child, but left the other on account
of her extreme ugliness. Suspecting, so much did superstition and ignorance flourish at this
time, that this woman had cloven feet, they made her take the coverings off her feet, to satisfy
themselves that they really were made like their own. Frobisher, now perceiving that the cold
was increasing, and wishing to place the treasures which he thought he had collected, in a
place of safety, resolved to give up for the present any farther search for the north-west
passage. He then set sail for England, where he arrived at the end of September, after weathering
a storm which dispersed his fleet. The man, woman, and child who had been carried off were
presented to the Queen. It is said with regard to them, that the man, seeing at Bristol Frobisher's
trumpeter on horseback wished to imitate him, and mounted with his face turned towards the
tail of the animal. These savages were the objects of much curiosity, and obtained permission
from the Queen to shoot all kinds of birds, even swans, on the Thames, a thing which was forbidden
to every one else under the most severe penalties. They did not long survive, and died before
the child was fifteen months old. 

The quite provincial young MacDermott cannot make London accept him at his own valuation and his
novels are poor stuff. His wife, loyal to him but still more loyal to the MacDermott clan into which
she has married and which now includes a little MacDermott, is the first to recognise that
her husband had best seek romance in the family grocery business. Then the MacDermott himself, with
that shrewdness which may be late in coming to an Ulsterman but never fails him altogether, realises
it too and the story is finished.
 These 100 men were carefully chosen; there
were bakers, carpenters, masons, gold-refiners, and others belonging to all the various handicrafts.
The fleet was composed of fifteen vessels, which set sail from Harwich on the 31st of May,
1578. Twenty days later the western coasts of Frisland were discovered. Whales played round
the vessels in innumerable troops. It is related even that one of the vessels propelled by
a favourable wind, struck against a whale with such force that the violence of the shock stopped
the ship at once, and that the whale after uttering a loud cry, made a spring out of the water
and then was suddenly swallowed up. Two days later, the fleet met with a dead whale which they
thought must be the one struck by the Salamander. When Frobisher came to the entrance of the
strait which has received his name, he found it blocked up with floating ice. "The barque Dennis,
100 tons," says the old account of George Best, "received such a shock from an iceberg that
she sank in sight of the whole fleet. Following upon this catastrophe, a sudden and horrible
tempest arose from the south-east, the vessels were surrounded on all sides by the ice; they
left much of it, between which they could pass, behind them, and found still more before them
through which it was impossible for them to penetrate. Certain ships, either having found a
place less blocked with ice, or one where it was possible to proceed, furled sails and drifted;
of the others, several stopped and cast their anchors upon a great island of ice. The latter
were so rapidly enclosed by an infinite number of islets of ice and fragments of icebergs,
that the English were obliged to resign themselves and their ships to the mercy of the ice,
and to protect the ships with cables, cushions, mats, boards, and all kinds of articles which
were suspended to the sides, in order to defend them from the fearful shocks and blows of the
ice." Frobisher himself was thrown out of his course. Finding the impossibility of rallying
his squadron, he sailed along the west coast of Greenland, as far as the strait which was soon
to be called Davis' Strait, and penetrated as far as the Countess of Warwick Bay. When he had
repaired his vessels with the wood which was to have been used in the building of a dwelling,
he loaded the ships with 500 tons of stones similar to those which he had already brought home.
Judging the season to be then too far advanced, and considering also that the provisions had
been either consumed, or lost in the Dennis, that the wood for building had been used for repairing
the vessels, and having lost 40 men, he set out on his return to England on the 31st of August.
Tempests and storms accompanied him to the shores of his own country. As to the results of
his expedition they were almost none as to discoveries, and the stones, which he had put on
board in the midst of so many dangers, were valueless.

This was the last Arctic voyage in which Frobisher took part. In 1585 we meet with him again
as vice-admiral, under Drake; in 1588 he distinguished himself against the Invincible Armada;
in 1590 he was with Sir Walter Raleigh's fleet on the coast of Spain; finally in a descent
on the coast of France, he was so seriously wounded that he had only time to bring his squadron
back to Portsmouth before he died. If Frobisher's voyages had only gain for their motive, we
must put this down not to the navigator himself, but to the passions of the period, and it
is not the less true that in difficult circumstances, and with means the insufficiency of which
makes us smile, he gave proof of courage, talent, and perseverance. To Frobisher is due, in
one word, the glory of having shown the route to his countrymen, and of having made the first
discoveries in the localities where the English name was destined to render itself illustrious.

If it became necessary to abandon the hope of finding in these circumpolar regions countries
in which gold abounded as it did in Peru, this was no ground for not continuing to seek there
for a passage to China; an opinion supported by very skilful sailors, and one which found many
adherents among the merchants of London. By the aid of several high personages, two ships were
equipped; the Sunshine, of fifty tons' burden and carrying a crew of twenty-three in number,
and the Moonshine, of thirty-five tons. They quitted Portsmouth on the 7th of June, 1585, under
the command of John Davis.

Davis discovered the entrance of the strait which received his name, and was obliged to cross
immense fields of drifting ice, after having reassured his crew, who were frightened while
in the midst of a dense fog, by the dash of the icebergs, and the splitting of the blocks of
ice. On the 20th July, Davis discovered the Land of Desolation, but without being able to disembark
upon it. Nine days later he entered Gilbert Bay, where he found a peaceable population, who
gave him sealskins and furs in exchange for some trifling articles. These natives, some days
afterwards, arrived in such numbers, that there were not less than thirty-seven canoes around
Davis' vessels. In this place, the navigator perceived an enormous quantity of drift wood,
amongst which he mentions an entire tree, which could not have been less than sixty feet in
length. On the 6th of August, he cast anchor in a fine bay called Tottness; near a mountain
of the colour of gold, which received the name of Raleigh, at the same time, he gave the names
of Dyer and Walsingham to two capes of that land of Cumberland.

During eleven days, Davis still sailed northwards on a very open sea, free from ice, and of
which the water had the colour of the Ocean. Already he believed himself at the entrance of
the sea, which communicated with the Pacific, when all at once the weather changed, and became
so foggy, that he was forced to return to Yarmouth, where he landed on the 30th of September.

Davis had the skill to make the owners of his ships partake in the hope which he had conceived.
Thus on the 7th of May (1586), he set out again with the two ships which had made the previous
voyage. To them were added the Mermaid of 120 tons, and the pinnace North Star. When, on the
25th of June, he arrived at the southern point of Greenland, Davis despatched the Sunshine
and the North Star towards the north, in order to search for a passage upon the eastern coast,
whilst he pursued the same route as in the preceding year, and penetrated into the strait which
bears his name as far as 69 degrees. But there was a much greater quantity of ice this year,
and on the 17th of July, the expedition fell in with an "icefield" of such extent that it took
thirteen days to coast along it. But to the philosopher and student of character all types are
interesting, and Mr. ERVINE'S skill lies in his ability not merely to draw his Ballyards hero
to the life but to interest us in his unsuccessful efforts to become a successful writer. It is
merely clan conceit that drives him forward in the pursuit of this purpose, for circumstances
have clearly intended him to carry on the grocery business in which the family have achieved
some success and a full measure of local esteem.

Although once more his researches had not been crowned with success, Davis still had good hope,
as is witnessed by a letter, which he wrote to the Company, in which he said that he had reduced
the existence of the passage to a species of certainty. Foreseeing, however, that he would
have more trouble in obtaining the despatch of a new expedition, he added that the expenses
of the enterprise would be fully covered by the profit arising from the fishery of walrus,
seals, and whales, which were so numerous in those parts, that they appeared to have there
established their head-quarters. On the 15th of May, 1587, he set sail with the Sunshine, the
Elizabeth of Dartmouth, and the Helen of London. This time he went farther north than he had
ever done before, and reached 72 degrees 12 minutes, that is to say, nearly the latitude of
Upernavik, and he descried Cape Henderson's Hope. Stopped by the ice, and forced to retrace
his way, he sailed in Frobisher's Strait, and after having crossed a large gulf, he arrived,
in 61 degrees 10 minutes latitude, in sight of a cape to which he gave the name of Chudleigh.
This cape is a part of the Labrador coast, and forms the southern entrance to Hudson's Bay.
After coasting along the American shores as far as 52 degrees, Davis set out for England, which
he reached on the 15th of September.

Although the solution of the problem had not been found, yet nevertheless, precious results
had been obtained, but results to which people at that period did not attach any great value.
Nearly the half of Baffin's Bay had been explored, and clear ideas had been obtained of its
shores, and of the people inhabiting them. These were considerable acquisitions, from a geographical
point of view, but they were scarcely those which would greatly affect the merchants of the
city. In consequence, the attempts at finding a north-west passage were abandoned by the English
for a somewhat long period.

A new nation was just come into existence. The Dutch--while scarcely delivered from the Spanish
yoke,--inaugurated that commercial policy, which was destined to make the greatness and prosperity
of their country, by the successive despatch of several expeditions to seek for a way to China
by the north-east; the same project formerly conceived by Sebastian Cabot, and which had given
to England the Russian trade. With their practical instinct, the Dutch had acquainted themselves
with English navigation. They had even established factories at Kola, and at Archangel, but
they wished to proceed further in their search for new markets. The Sea of Kara appearing to
them too difficult, they resolved, acting on the advice of the cosmographer Plancius, to try
a new way by the north of Nova Zembla. The merchants of Amsterdam applied therefore, to an
experienced sailor, William Barentz, born in the island of Terschelling, near the Texel. This
navigator set out from the Texel in 1594, on board the Mercure, doubled the North Cape, saw
the island of Waigatz, and found himself, on the 4th of July, in sight of the coast of Nova
Zembla, in latitude 73 degrees 25 minutes. He sailed along the coast, doubled Cape Nassau on
the 10th of July, and three days later he came in contact with the ice. Until the 3rd of August,
he attempted to open a passage through the pack, testing the mass of ice on various sides,
going up as far as the Orange Islands at the north-western extremity of Nova Zembla, sailing
over 1700 miles of ground, and putting his ship about no less than eighty-one times. We do
not imagine that any navigator had hitherto displayed such perseverance. Let us add that he
turned this long cruise to account, to fix astronomically, and with remarkable accuracy, the
latitude of various points. At last, wearied with the fruitless boxing about along the edge
of the pack, the crew cried for mercy, and it became necessary to return to the Texel.

The results obtained were judged so important, that the following year, the Dutch States-General
entrusted to Jacob van Heemskerke, the command of a fleet of seven vessels, of which Barentz
was named chief pilot. After touching at various points upon the coasts of Nova Zembla and
of Asia, this squadron was forced by the pack to go back without having made any important
discovery, and it returned to Holland on the 18th of September.

As a general rule governments do not possess as much perseverance as do private individuals.
The large fleet of the year 1595, had cost a great sum of money, and had produced no results;
this was sufficient to discourage the States-General. The merchants of Amsterdam therefore,
substituting private enterprise for the action of the government, which merely promised a reward
to the man who should first discover the north-east passage--fitted out two vessels, of which
the command was given to Heemskerke and to Jan Corneliszoon Rijp, while Barentz, who had only
the title of pilot, was virtually the leader of the expedition. The historian of the voyage,
Gerrit de Veer, was also on board as second mate.

The Dutchmen sailed from Amsterdam on the 10th of May, 1596, passed by the Shetland and Faröe
Islands, and on the 5th of June, saw the first masses of ice, "whereat we were much amazed,
believing at first that they were white swans." To depict on the outside of a book the facsimile
of a cheque for ten thousand pounds might well be to excite in some readers a mood of wistfulness
only too apt to interfere with their appreciation of the contents. Fortunately, Uncle Simon (HUTCHINSON)
is a story quite cheery enough even to banish reflections on the Profiteer. A middle-aged and ultra-respectable
London solicitor, whose thwarted youth periodically awakes in him and insists upon his indulging
all those follies that should have been safely finished forty-odd years before--here, you
will admit, is a figure simply bursting with every kind of possibility. Fortunately, moreover,
MARGARET and H. DE VERE STACPOOLE have shown themselves not only fully alive to all the humorous
chances of their theme, but inspired with an infectious delight in
them. On the 11th of July, Heemskerke and Barentz were in the parts of Cape Kanin,
and five days later they had reached the western coast of Nova Zembla, which was called Willoughby's
Land. They then altered their course, and again going northwards, they arrived on the 19th
at the Island of Crosses, where the ice which was still attached to the shore, barred their
passage. They remained in this place until the 4th of August, and two days later they doubled
Cape Nassau. After several changes of course, which it would take too long to relate, they
reached the Orange Islands at the northern extremity of Nova Zembla. They began to descend
the eastern coast, but were soon obliged to enter a harbour, where they found themselves completely
blocked in by the pack-ice, and in which "they were forced in great cold, poverty, misery,
and grief, to stay all the winter." This was on the 26th of August. "On the 30th the masses
of ice began to pile themselves one upon another against the ship, with snow falling. The ship
was lifted up and surrounded in such a manner, that all that was about her and around her began
to crack and split. It seemed as if the ship must break into a thousand pieces, a thing most
terrible to see and to hear, and fit to make one's hair stand on end. The ship was afterwards
in equal danger, when the ice formed beneath, raising her and bearing her up as though she
had been lifted by some instrument." Soon the ship cracked to such a degree, that prudence
dictated the debarkation of some of the provisions, sails, gunpowder, lead, the arquebuses
as well as other arms, and the erection of a tent or hut, in which the men might be sheltered
from the snow and from any attacks by bears. Some days later, some sailors who had advanced
from four to six miles inland, found near a river of fresh water, a quantity of drift-wood;
they discovered there also the traces of wild goats and of reindeer. On the 11th of September,
seeing that the bay was filled with enormous blocks of ice piled one upon the other, and welded
together, the Dutchmen perceived that they would be obliged to winter in this place, and resolved,
"in order to be better defended against the cold, and armed against the wild beasts," to build
a house there, which might be able to contain them all, while they would leave to itself the
ship, which became each day less safe and comfortable. Fortunately, they found upon the shore
whole trees, coming doubtless from Siberia, and driven here by the current, and in such quantity
that they sufficed not only for the construction of their habitation, but also for firewood
throughout the winter.

Never yet had any European wintered in these regions, in the midst of that slothful and immovable
sea, which according to the very false expressions used by Tacitus, forms the girdle of the
world, and in which is heard the uproar caused by the rising of the sun. The Dutchmen, therefore,
were unable to picture to themselves the sufferings which threatened them. They bore them,
however, with admirable patience, without a single murmur, and without the least want of discipline
or attempt at mutiny. The conduct of these brave seamen, quite ignorant of what so apparently
dark a future might have in reserve for them, but who with wonderful faith had "placed their
affairs in the hands of God," may be always proposed as an example even to the sailors of the
present day. It may well be said that they had really in their heart the æs triplex of which
Horace speaks. It was owing to the skill, knowledge, and foresight of their leader Barentz,
as much as to their own spirit of obedience, that the Dutch sailors ever came forth from Nova
Zembla, which threatened to be their tomb, and again saw the shores of their own country.

The bears, which were extremely numerous at that period of the year, made frequent visits to
the crew. It is painful to contrast the whitewash and unpainted deal of the house of God with
the rich furniture and hangings of the adjoining rectory. In the garden of the latter is preserved
a medlar-tree, planted by "the sweet singer of the temple." It would have been, however, a considerable addition to their food, and would
have saved them from using their salted meat, and thus they might longer have escaped the attacks
of scurvy. But that we may not anticipate, let us continue to follow the journal of Gerrit de Veer.

On the 23rd September, the carpenter died, and was interred the next day in the cleft of a
mountain, it being impossible to put a spade into the ground, on account of the severity of
the frost. The following days were devoted to the transport of driftwood and the building of
the house. To cover it in, it was necessary to demolish the fore and aft cabins of the ship;
the roof was put on, on the 2nd October, and a piece of frozen snow was set up like a May pole.
On the 31st September, there was a strong wind from the north-west, and as far as the eye could
reach, the sea was entirely open and without ice. "But we remained as though taken and arrested
in the ice, and the ship was raised full two or three feet upon the ice, and we could imagine
nothing else but that the water must be frozen quite to the bottom, although it was three fathoms
and a half in depth."

