An Anarchist Woman

By HUTCHINS HAPGOOD

Author of "The Autobiography of a Thief," "The Spirit of Labor"

NEW YORK DUFFIELD & COMPANY 1909

COPYRIGHT, 1909, BY DUFFIELD AND COMPANY

  "The best government is that which
  makes itself superfluous."

  GOETHE

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                             PAGE

      I. SCHOOL AND FACTORY                            1

     II. DOMESTIC SERVICE                             12

    III. DOMESTIC SERVICE (CONTINUED)                 26

     IV. ADVENTURES IN SEX                            48

      V. MARIE'S SALVATION                            65

     VI. TERRY                                        73

    VII. THE MEETING                                  94

   VIII. THE ROGUES' GALLERY                         120

     IX. THE SALON                                   147

      X. MORE OF THE SALON                           186

     XI. THE END OF THE SALON                        217

    XII. MARIE'S ATTEMPT                             239

   XIII. MARIE'S FAILURE                             261

    XIV. MARIE'S REVOLT                              280

     XV. TERRY'S FINISH                              299

PREFACE

It is possible that in fifty years people now called "anarchists" will have in America as respectable
a place as they now occupy in France. When we are more accustomed to social thought, we shall
not regard those who radically differ from us, as mad dogs or malevolent idiots. We may, indeed,
still look on them as mistaken, but what now seems to us their insanity or peculiar atrociousness
will vanish with our growing understanding and experience. When we become less crude in civilisation,
they will seem less crude to us. When, with growing culture, we see things more nearly as they
are, the things we see, including the anarchists, will seem more sympathetic.

This book is not an attempt to justify any person or set of persons. It is not a political
or economic pamphlet. It represents an effort to throw light on what may be called the temperament
of revolt; by portraying the mental life of an individual, and incidentally of more than one
individual, I have hoped to make more clear the natural history of the anarchist; to show under
what conditions, in connection with what personal qualities, the anarchistic habit of mind
arises, and to point out, suggestively, rather than explicitly, the nature, the value, and
the tragic limitation of the social rebel.

An Anarchist Woman

CHAPTER I

School and Factory

When I first met the heroine of this tale, Marie, she was twenty-three years old, yet had lived
enough for a woman of more than twice her age; indeed, few women of any age ever acquire the
amount of mental experience possessed by this factory hand and servant girl. She had more completely
translated her life into terms of thought than any other woman of my acquaintance. She had
been deeply helped to do this by a man of strange character, with whom she lived. She had also
been deeply helped by vice and misery. The intensity of her nature showed in her anæmic body
and her large eyes, dark and glowing, but more than all in the way she had of making everything
her own, no matter from what source it came. Everything she said, or wrote, or did, all fitted
into her personality, had one note, her note. Moreover, as young HERBERT pleasantly remarks a little later in
the day, "You must draw a Hawarden-fast line between the two." One, standing on a hill dominating
a far-reaching tract of level country, was already so old in the time of EDWARD THE FIRST that
it was found necessary to rebuild it.

Looking through your Domesday Book (which you always carry with you on these excursions), you find the
mansion referred to under the style of Haordine.

This, antiquarians assume, is the Saxonised form of the earlier British Y Garthddin, which, being
translated, means "The hill-fort on the projecting ridge."

When WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR came over, bringing with him a following
the numerical proportions of which increase as the years roll by,
he found the Fort on the Hill held by EDWARD of Mercia, and deemed
it convenient to leave it in his possession.

The Castle played its part in English history down to the time, now
130 years gone by, when it came into the hands of Sir JOHN GLYNN,
and thence through long descent became an inheritance of the gracious
lady who, with cambric cap-strings streaming in the free air of the
Marches, joins your host in welcoming you.

It is, however, not on the steps of the old castle of which Prince
LLEWELLYN was once lord that you are thus received. By the side of the old
ruin has grown up another Hawarden Castle, a roomy mansion, statelily
stuccoed, with sham turrets run up, buttresses, embrasures, portholes,
and portcullises, putting to shame the rugged, looped and windowless
ruin that still stands on the projecting ridge.

This dates only from the beginning of the century, and, looking upon
it, your face glows with honest pride, as you think how much better
the generation near your own made for itself dwelling-houses compared
with the earlier English.

Whilst you stand musing on these things you are conscious of a whishing
sound, and a breath of swiftly moving cool air wantonly strikes your
cheek.

You look up and behold! there is your host, axe in hand, playfully performing a number of passes over
your unconscious head.

His dress is designed admirably to suit the exercise. Coat and waistcoat
are doffed; the immortal collars are turned down, displaying the columnar
throat and the brawny chest; the snow-white shirt-sleeves are turned
up to the elbow, disclosing biceps that SAMSON would envy and SANDOW
covet.

His braces are looped on either side of his supple hips, and his right
hand grasps the axe which, a moment ago had been performing over your
head a series of evolutions which, remarkable for the strength and
agility displayed, were, perhaps, scarcely desirable for daily repetition.

"Don't

be frightened, TOBY M.P.," said the full rich voice so familiar in
the House of Commons; "it's our wild woodsman's way of welcoming the
coming guest.

What do you think of my costume? Seen it before? Ah! yes, the photographs. Carte de visite style, 10s.
6d. a dozen; Cabinet size, a guinea.

I have been photographed several times as you will observe."

And, indeed, as your host leads you along
the stately passages, through the storied rooms, you find his photograph
everywhere.

The tables are covered with them, showing your host in all attitudes and
costumes.

"Yes," he says, with a sigh, "I think I have marched up to the camera's
mouth as often as most men of my years."

Ascending
the rustic staircase which leads from the garden, WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE
takes you past the library into the drawing-room, in the upper parts
of the leaded windows of which are inserted panels of rare old glass,
cunningly obtained by melting superfluous Welsh ale bottles.

He leads you to a table, as round as that at which a famous Conference was held,
and points to a little ivory painting.

It shows a chubby little boy some two years of age, with rather large
head and broad shoulders, sitting at the knee of a young nymph approaching
her fifth year.

On her knee is a book, and the chubby boy, with dark
hair falling low over his forehead, his great brown eyes staring frankly
at you, points with his finger to a passage.
Mr. Hardwin, a benevolent looking old gentleman with a white beard and a skull-cap, glanced
at the certificate, and patting stupid me kindly on the head, hired me for two dollars a week,
and sent me upstairs where I was put to work washing old cans collected from the ash barrels
and alleys of the city. After being cleansed, they were filled with lye, and new covers sealed
on them. Then they were covered with neat white labels, and packed in cases and delivered to
all parts of the United States.

"This sort of work was not what I had expected to do. But I was told by my mother that all
people who worked for their living had to start in that way, and gradually work themselves
upwards. So I waited patiently for the time when I might, perhaps, secure the position of labelling.
Then, too, I thought that great place would bring an increase of salary, for I had already
learned that the lighter the work, the heavier the pay.

"About this time the firm received large orders for lye, and all hands were put to work filling
the cans with this corrosive material, for which purpose rubber gloves were used. As I was
the latest addition to the factory, and the greenest girl in the place, it was easy for the
older and more experienced girls to secure the best gloves for the work. The old, worn out
ones, which were full of holes, fell to me, who was too young and timid to rebel against these
conditions. After a week of this work my hands were all eaten by the lye and it was torturing
agony to move them in any way. At night my mother used to put salve and bandages on them, but
this treatment was of little avail because the next day my hands would be covered with that
horrible stuff which ate deeper and deeper, until the pain became unbearable.

"So, one morning, I went to Mr. Hardwin and begged him, with tears in my eyes, to let me work
at something else until my hands were healed. He looked at my swollen fingers and said: 'My
poor girl, you certainly shall work at something else. I will give you a nice easy job making
bird-seed boxes.'

"I was immediately put at my new work, which seemed really delightful to me, but I was rather
lonely, as I was the only girl on that floor. I made thousands and thousands of those boxes,
which were stacked in heaps upon the shelves above my head. Directly behind me was a great
belt, connected with the cutting machine up-stairs, which all day long cut out the round pieces
of tin needed to cover the cans of lye after they were filled. This belt as it whirled round
and round made a great noise. But I soon grew quite used to it. I became like a machine myself.
All alone I sat there, day after day, while the great belt whirred out the same monotonous
song. I kept time to its monotony by a few movements of the hands endlessly repeated, turning
out boxes and boxes and boxes, all alike. I saw, heard, and felt almost nothing. My hands moved
unconsciously and instinctively. At this time, I think, the first feeling of profound ennui
came to me, that feeling which to shake off I would at a later time do anything, anything,
no matter how violent and extreme it was. Only at noon time when the whistle shrieked did I
seem alive, and then I was dazed and trembling.

"The great belt then stopped whirring for half an hour and I sat and ate my frugal meal, listening
eagerly to the talk going on about me. Sometimes the girls made me the butt of their jests,
for they were envious of me, because of my easy job, and hinted that I was not getting this
snap for nothing. All of this I did not in the least understand, for I was not much more than
twelve years old.

"One morning I was surprised and delighted to see Mr. Hardwin come in and ask me how my hands
were, and if I still suffered much pain. I was so grateful that tears came to my eyes as I
answered. That night I told my mother what an extremely kind and good man Mr. Hardwin was.
He repeated these visits several mornings in succession, always asking me how I was getting
along, and patting me on the head or shoulder as he went away. I had been working perhaps two
months at this job, when one morning it happened that I was the first one of the employees
to arrive at the factory. While I was in the dressing-room removing my wraps, a knock came
on the door, and Mr. Hardwin entered. Quickly seizing me in his arms, he covered my face with
kisses, and did not quit until he heard someone approaching. He left hastily, saying 'Don't
tell!' the only words he uttered during the scene. I was so amazed that I did not even scream.
Nor did I understand, but I did feel troubled and ashamed. All that morning I was uneasy and
nervous, and the following day I waited outside until some of the girls came, so that I should
not have to go into the factory alone. The day following I received an envelope with my pay,
and was told that my services were no longer required.

"I got a beating at home as a result of my discharge, but as I soon found another job, my parents
became comparatively kind to me again. This new work was in a candy factory, where I was both
startled and amazed at the way the beautiful, sweet candies were made. I remained there about
six months, when I was discharged because I had been late several times in one week. The next
job was in a brewery, where I labelled beer bottles. This was the cleanest and most wholesome
place I ever worked in. We had a whole hour for dinner, and the boys and girls were all so
jolly. Nearly every day after lunch we played on mouth organs and danced on the smooth floor
until the whistle blew for work again. Oh, there, it was good to work! Three times a day each
employee received a bottle of nice cold beer, which, after several hours of hard work, tasted
lovely. The people there seemed to think it was not evil to be happy, and I naturally agreed
with them against the good people outside. But one ill-fated day my parents heard that a brewery
was an immoral place for a young girl to work in, and that if I remained there I might lose
my character and reputation. So I was taken away and put to work in another place and then
in another, but I am sure that I never again found a place that I liked half as well as the
dear old bottled beer shop."

CHAPTER II

Domestic Service

When Marie was about fifteen years old, her mother took her away from the factories and put
her into domestic service. Factory work was telling on the girl's health, and the night freedom
it involved did not please her mother. The young woman for some time had felt the charms of
associating with many boys and girls unchaperoned and untrammelled. She liked the streets at
night better than her home.

"When I got into the street," said Marie, "I felt like a dog let loose." Of course, she hated
to go into domestic service, where the evenings would no longer be all her own, but her mother
was still strong enough to have her way.

"At that time," Marie wrote me, "I was a poor, awkward girl, somewhat stupid, perhaps, but
who would not be at my age and in the same environment? I had received most of my education
in the factories and stores down-town, which was perhaps beneficial to everybody but me. Even
my mother, who in some ways was stupid and hard, noticed that this sort of education was likely
to have what is called a demoralizing effect on me. So she induced a kind-hearted, philanthropic
woman, Mrs. Belshow, to take me as servant girl. Mrs. Belshow was high in affairs of the Hull
House Settlement Workers, and generously paid my mother one dollar and a half a week for my
services.

"Mrs. Belshow had a beautiful house. At first these fine surroundings, to which I was entirely
unused, made me more awkward than ever. But soon I got accustomed to the place and became very
serviceable to my employer. I was lady's maid as well as general housekeeper, and my fine lady
duly appreciated my work, for she never asked me to do service after half-past nine at night
or before half-past five in the morning. Besides, she allowed me Sunday afternoon free, but
only to go to church or Sunday School. For the honourable lady told me very kindly that she
did not wish to interfere with my religion in any way whatever. This advice I accepted meekly,
as I was greatly in awe of her, though I should have much preferred to spend my half holiday
in my home locality and to dance there with other stupid boys and girls in Lammer's Hall, where
the entrancing strains of the concertina were to be heard every Sunday afternoon. The young
folks out that way were not strong on religion; or, if they were, they would receive all the
soul's medicine necessary by attending church in the morning, no doubt thereby feeling more
vigorous and fit for enjoying the dance afterwards.

"But I, poor stupid, had learned from my mistress that dance-halls were vile and abominable.
Of course, I believed all that Mrs. Belshow told me. I had not the slightest idea that she
did not know everything. Why, she belonged to Hull House, that big place in Halsted Street,
which had flowers and lace curtains in all the windows, and big looking-glasses and carpets
and silver things on the inside; and many beautiful ladies who wore grand silk dresses and
big hats with feathers came to see my mistress nearly every day, and they all talked a great
deal about the evils of dance-halls and saloons and theatres. I had always stupidly thought
that those places were very nice, especially the dance-halls, because I always enjoyed myself
there better than anywhere else. I had never been in a theatre, but I had often been in the
saloons to rush the can for my father, and I had noticed that people seemed to enjoy themselves
there. There were long green tables in the saloons on which men played pool, and there were
books scattered about in which were jokes and funny pictures. And the men played cards and
told stories and danced and sang and did about anything they wanted to. This seemed to me good,
and I felt sure at the time that if I were a man I should like to be there, too.

"But now I learned that these were terrible places, dens of vice and crime. What vice was,
I did not know, but crime meant murdering somebody or doing something else dreadful. I thought
about what I heard the fine ladies say until my poor little head became quite muddled. Left
to myself, I could not see anything so terrible about these places, but if these finely dressed
ladies said they were terrible, why they must be so. They knew better than I did. But I wondered
dreamily if all terrible places were as nice as dance-halls.

"After the novelty of the situation wore away, life became rather wearisome to me, and I sometimes
wished I were again working in the old factory. I thought of the evenings, when my day's work
in the factory was done and I was walking in the streets with my chums, telling them, perhaps,
of the small girls who worked with me in the factory, and of the guys who waited for them on
Saturday nights and took them to the show. And one of the girl's guys always used to give her
a whole box of the swellest candy you ever tasted.

"Dreaming thus one day of all the happy times I had known, I loitered over my work, as I fear
I often did, and was sharply reprimanded by my mistress, the honourable lady, who wanted to
speak to me as soon as possible on a matter of grave importance. I finished making the bed
in a hurry and went into the presence of Mrs. Belshow, who said to me:

"'My dear child, how old are you?'

"'Past fifteen, ma'am.'

"'Fifteen! H'm, you're quite a big girl for your age. I'm astonished that you have no more
self-respect, or your mother for you! How is it that she allows you to go about with such short
dresses? Why, it is shameful; I am surprised, for your mother seemed to me a sensible sort
of a woman. I declare, I never would allow my daughter to expose herself in such a shameless
manner, and I certainly will not allow anyone in my employ to do so. Only the other day my
attention was called by some of my friends to your most careless condition. They said they
could not help noticing it, it was so dreadful. It is this kind of thing which causes a great
part of the vice and immorality with which we are surrounded. Unless a mother has common decency
enough to clothe her child properly, it seems hopeless for us to accomplish anything. Now,
my dear child, I want you to go home this very night and tell your mother you must positively
have some long dresses, or no self-respecting person would care to associate with you. And
you must try to have at least one respectable garment by Sunday, for I am ashamed to have you
seen going out of my house in your present condition. Run along now and don't be home later
than ten this evening.'

"During this long harangue I stood gazing on the floor, blushing painfully. I wanted to tell
my mistress why I had no longer dresses, but could only stammer 'yes, ma'am' and 'no, ma'am,'
and was very glad to escape from the room as soon as my lady had finished.

"When my mother heard about the affair, she was very indignant, and demanded why Mrs. Belshow
did not buy the dresses for me. 'For my part,' she said, 'I have no money to waste on such
trash. I'm sure, what you are wearing now is all right. It's not so short, either, nearly down
to your shoe tops. But I suppose I must get you something, or she will fire you. I'll give
you a dress that'll be long enough all right--one that goes right down to the floor, and if
Mrs. Belshow doesn't like it, she'll have to lump it. I can't afford to get you new dresses
every year and you not through growing yet. Gee, that Mrs. Belshow must think we're millionaires!'

"When I made my appearance the next Sunday morning in a neat long skirt, the honourable lady
praised me very highly, saying that now I looked like a respectable young woman. 'Why, you
actually look pretty, my child,' she said. 'You must get a nice ribbon for your neck, and then
you will be fine.' This remark made me very happy, for I had been secretly longing for a dress
of this kind. Now, at last, I was a real grown-up lady. Perhaps I might soon have a fellow,
who would take me to the show, just like the girls in the factory. I thrilled with joy. Later
I looked into the mirror a long while, admiring myself and dreaming of the afternoon, when
I would be free. I decided that I would go to the dance, and pictured to myself how surprised
and envious the other girls would be, when they saw me looking so fine. I would certainly not
miss one single dance the whole afternoon, for I was sure the boys would be fascinated and
that the swellest among them would see me home in the evening.

"These joys made the morning an unforgettable one; but soon it was time to get ready to go.
I went to my room and curled my hair, and then was more pleased with myself than ever. I really
looked pretty! Oh, the joy of it! I do not need to explain, even to a man. Briefly, I looked
sweller than ever. The only thing needed to complete my toilet were some bright ribbons to
fix in my hair and around my throat. I recollected having seen some very pretty ribbons in
my mistress's scrap-bag which would do admirably. So I brought the scrap bag from the store
room and dumped the contents on my bed, and soon found just what I wanted--two beautiful bits
of silk. I hastily stitched them together, and was all ready to go. I could return the silk
to the bag the next morning and my mistress would never know they had been gone. I thought
regretfully what a shame it was to throw such beautiful things into a scrap-bag.

"Poor, vain little me! I came home later than usual, that never-to-be-forgotten night!--very
tired, but very happy. And I had been escorted all the way by the grandest young man I had
ever known. I lay awake for a long time, reviewing everything that had happened. I had never
dreamed it was possible to be so happy. It was because I was now a grown-up lady! I should
never forget that all my happiness was due to my mistress, for it was through her that I had
my long dress. I decided to be more serviceable than ever, not dream and dawdle over my work,
and never to be angry when my mistress scolded me. I would disobey her only in one thing--about
going to Sunday School. At least, I would not go every week, perhaps every other Sunday, so
she would not notice. In the midst of these good and delightful thoughts I fell asleep, and
slept so soundly that the alarm bell in the clock did not awaken me at the usual hour.

"It did awaken Mrs. Belshow, however, who was just about to drop off to sleep again, when it
occurred to her that she had not heard me moving about as usual, so she went to my room and
aroused me in the midst of a beautiful dream about the handsomest boy you ever saw just as
he was paying me the greatest attention!

"Jumping out of bed, I was horrified to find it was six o'clock, fully half an hour late. I
rushed about my work, dreading the moment, yet wishing it were over, when my mistress should
summon me for the scolding I was sure would come, for if there was one thing Mrs. Belshow hated
more than anything else, it was being late. All too soon came the dreaded moment. Breakfast
was scarcely over, when I was requested to go to my room. That was rather surprising, for,
as a rule, I received my scolding in the lady's room, while I was assisting her to pull on
her stockings or comb her hair.

"I had scarcely crossed the threshold of my room when my knees knocked together and I nearly
fell over, for there, standing in the centre of the room, with a piece of silk in her hand
and an ominous frown on her face, stood my mistress. She pointed an accusing finger at me and
asked coldly, 'Where did you get this?' Receiving no answer, she continued, 'Don't tell any
lies, now, to add to your other crime.' I stood there, as if glued to the floor and could only
gaze at her dumbly and appealingly. I tried to speak in vain; but even if I had been able to,
she would not have given me a chance. She brought all her eloquence to bear upon the stupid
girl before her; she wanted to make me see what a very evil act I had committed.

"'Oh, how sorry I am!' she cried, 'that this thing has happened. But you are very fortunate
that it has occurred in my house, rather than in somebody else's, for I know what measures
to take to cure you of the propensity to crime which you have so clearly shown. I shall, of
course, have to send you away immediately; for I could never again trust you in my home, for
although it is only a trifle that you have stolen,--yes, deliberately stolen,--yet anyone who
takes only a pin that belongs to another, will take more when the opportunity offers. So, in
order to cure you of this tendency, I myself will conduct you to your mother and impress upon
her the necessity of guarding and watching you carefully, as a possible young criminal. I never
should have expected this of you, for you have quite an honest look. Now, dress yourself quickly
and bundle up whatever belongs to you. I will remain in the room while you are packing. Are
you sure you have taken nothing else which does not belong to you?'

"This question loosened my tongue, which hitherto had clung tightly to the roof of my mouth.
Dropping on my knees before my mistress, I fervently swore that I had taken nothing, that I
had not meant to take anything. I had meant to wear the pieces of silk only once and then put
them back where I had found them. With tears rolling down my face, I begged her not to tell
my mother.

"'I will work for you all my life without pay,' I cried, 'if you will only not tell my mother.
Indeed, I did not mean to steal, so please don't tell my mother!'

"This I urged so vehemently and with such floods of tears that finally my kind-hearted mistress
said: 'My dear child, if you will promise me faithfully never to do anything like this again,
I will not tell your mother. But let this be a lesson to you; never to take anything again,
not even a pin, that does not belong to you. You can never again say, with perfect truthfulness,
that you have not stolen. I am glad to see that you have such respect for your mother that
you do not want her to know of this, and for your sake I will not tell her. I have a meeting
at Hull House to attend in half an hour, and before I leave I wish you would scrub up the kitchen
and your room and then you can go.'

"So saying, the honourable lady left the room quite satisfied with herself for having (perhaps)
rescued another human being from the paths of vice and crime. I went about my work with a heavy
heart. Forgotten were all the joys of yesterday! Now, just as I was becoming used to my place,
I must leave it. And I must tell my mother some reason for it. But I could not tell the truth.
Ah! yes, I would say that my mistress was about to close up the house and go South for the
winter. That would be a fine excuse. I had heard and read that many rich people go South for
a time in the cold weather, so surely my mother would not doubt it. I went away, feeling easier
in my mind, and never saw my honourable mistress again.

"Many days have passed since then, and I have been serving several different ladies. I learned
a lesson from each one of them; but I shall never forget what I learned from the kind-hearted,
philanthropic Mrs. Belshow, a prominent settlement worker in a large city. It's a lesson that
Mrs. Belshow will never learn, or could never understand. All of which shows, perhaps, that
I was simple at the time rather than stupid; for I find that I am still receiving my education--not
from books, but from the way people treat me, and from what I see as I pass through life."

CHAPTER III

Domestic Service (Continued)

"Nearly a year had passed," continued Marie, "since I had began to work at service, and my
experiences had not been of the sort that makes one love one's fellow-creatures. For the most
part I had worked for people who were trying to make a good showing in society and had not
the means to do so. How often during those weary days of drudgery I looked back at the dear
old days when I used to work in the factories! Then I could go to the dance! Now, it was very
difficult, even if my mother had not been so strongly against it. I could not understand why
my mother so sternly forbade me to go. When I asked her why she objected, the only answer I
received was: 'It is improper for a girl of your age.' 'Why is it improper?' I asked myself,
and could find no answer. So I disobeyed my mother and danced whenever I had the chance. Whenever
I did succeed in going, my heart almost broke from sheer happiness. Oh, how supremely, wonderfully
joyous I felt! How I forgot everything then--my mother, my drudgery, everything that made life
disagreeable! Whenever the music started, I felt as if I were floating in the air, I could
not feel my feet touching the floor. All the lights merged into one dazzling glow and my heart
kept time to the rhythm of the music. When the music stopped, the glorious illumination seemed
to go out and leave only a little straggling light from a few badly smelling kerosene lamps.
The beautiful, fantastic music had been in reality only a harsh horn accompanied by a concertina
or some other stupid instrument jangling vile music. The young boys and girls were all a common,
stupid lot, and the odour of the stock yards permeated the room. But when the mystical music
begins again, and the dance starts, presto! change, and I am again floating in rhythmic space
and the faces and dim lights have changed into one glorious central flame.

"I shall never forget one awful night, when my mother, who had heard that I was at the dance,
came into the hall, and there before all the boys and girls dragged me out and away to our
home. I was so ashamed that I did not show myself in that dance-hall again for months. I cannot
help thinking my mother was wrong, for I needed some outlet to my energy. Like many a poor
working girl, I had developed into womanhood early and consequently was full of life. The dance
satisfied this life instinct, which, when that outlet was made difficult, sought some other way.

"At that time I had a position as nurse-maid, my duties being to take care of two beautiful,
but spoiled children, who had never received proper care, because their mother a wealthy woman,
was too indolent, to make any effort in that direction, spending most of her time lying in
bed with some novel in her hand. The house was filled with sensational, sentimental books.
They were to be found in every room, stacked away in all the corners.

"At first I attempted to do what I thought was my duty, that is, to keep the children neat
and clean and try to train them to be more gentle and obedient, but I soon saw that what their
mother wanted was for me to keep them out of her way. My ambition about them faded away, and
I sought only to fulfil my mistress's wishes. I used to take the two children up into the store-room,
in which were all sorts of miscellaneous things, including stacks and stacks of paper-covered
novels, lock the door, and allow the children absolute liberty, while I sat down comfortably
and examined the books.

"Here a new life opened before me. I read these novels constantly every day and half the night,
and could hardly wait for the children to have their breakfast, so eager was I to get at my
wonderful stories again. Even when it was necessary to take the children out for an airing,
a novel was always hidden in my clothes, which I would eagerly devour as soon as I was out
of sight of the house. During the four weeks spent at this place I read more than forty novels.
Even on Sunday, when I was free, I sprawled out on the bed and read these sensational books.
I thought no more of my beloved dances, for I was living in a new world. Here I was in a beautiful
house, where I did almost nothing but loll in the easiest chairs and feed my soul on stories
about beautiful, innocent maidens, who were wooed, and after almost insurmountable difficulties,
won by gallant, devoted heroes.

"But soon I became so absorbed that even the few duties I had, became very irksome to me, for
they interfered somewhat with my reading. Every morning I had to bathe and dress the little
ones, who, not seeing the necessity for these operations, struggled and screamed and bit and
kicked. I had accepted this daily scene as a matter of course, but every now and then it rather
irritated me. One morning the hubbub was unusually long and loud, so much so that the noise
disturbed the mother, who was breakfasting and reading in bed. She came to the room in a stew
and asked me what was the matter. When I told her, she angrily said: 'When I engage a nurse
girl for my children, I do not expect to hear them squealing every morning. Remember that,
and do not let me hear them again.'

"The little boy, who was precocious for his age, heard what his mother had said, and seeing
that he had not been scolded for his ill behaviour, began to scream and struggle more than
ever, and his little sister imitated him, in a dutiful, feminine way. I then lost my patience,
seized the little boy, dragged him to his mother and said: 'Here's your boy. Tend to him yourself;
I cannot.'

"I was, of course, told to bundle up my belongings at once and go. I did not forget to pack
away among my things some of the novels, feeling that since they had all been read by Madame,
they were only in the way. When I said 'good-bye' to the children, Madame came to me and said
very kindly, 'Marie, I'm really sorry this has occurred, for you are one of the best nurse
girls I have ever had, and the children seemed to get along so nicely with you, too!' I was
so surprised at this speech that I could make no answer and so I lost my chance of remaining,
for it is quite certain she wanted me to stay. But it was fated to be otherwise, and once more
I returned to the home of my parents.

"My mother was not overjoyed to see me. It was a mystery to her why I did not keep my jobs
longer. I promised to get another place as soon as possible and begged her to allow me to stay
at home the rest of the week. To this she consented rather grudgingly, and I flew to my beloved
books and read till supper time. I was beginning at it again in the evening when my mother
rudely snatched the book from me saying, that it was not good for young girls to read such
stuff. I begged earnestly to be allowed to finish just that one story and she finally said
that perhaps I might read it the next day. In the morning I could hardly curb my impatience;
it seemed as though my mother were inventing all sorts of useless things for me to do, just
to keep me from the book. But at last I was free and, hastening to my room, was soon absorbed
in another world. I was suddenly recalled to this earth by a sharp blow on my head, and the
book was again snatched from me and thrown into the fire and burned. It seemed that mother
had been calling me and that I had been too much absorbed to hear; that she had finally lost
her temper and decided to punish me.

"'Don't ever again read such trash as this,' she cried in a rage. 'Have you any more of them?'

"'No,' I said, fearing to tell the truth, lest the rest of the books meet the same fate.

"She then sent me on an errand. As I left the house I felt uneasy, thinking that my lie might
be discovered. The moment I returned, I saw by the expression on my mother's face that my fears
had been realised. The storm broke at once.

"'Oh, what an unfortunate woman I am!' she cried, 'to be treated thus by my own flesh and blood,
by the child that I brought into the world with so much pain and suffering. O, God, what have
I done to deserve this? O God, what have I done to be cursed with such a child?--so young,
yet so full of lies. What will become of her? Have I not always done my duty by her and tried
to raise her the best I knew how? Why did she not die when a baby? I like a fool, toiled and
moiled for her night and day and this is my reward.'

"I had heard these expressions often, for my mother was a hysterical woman in whom the slightest
thing would cause the most violent emotions which demanded relief in such lamentations. And
yet, frequent as they were, they never failed to arouse in me feelings of shame and rage--shame
that I had caused my mother suffering, and rage that she reproached herself for having brought
me into the world. That expression of hers never failed to make me wish that I had never been
born--born into this miserable world where I had to toil as a child, and could not go to dances
or even read without receiving a torrent of abuse and an avalanche of blows. What harm had
I done by my reading? True, I had not heard my mother calling, but how often had I spoken to
her without being heard, when she was engrossed in some newspaper or book!

"So I remained quiet, when my mother railed at me for my lie, too ashamed and bitter to make
defense or reply. This silence, as usual, made my mother still more angry and she shouted:
'You ungrateful wretch, I'll tell your father, and he'll fix you so you won't feel like lying
to your mother for some time to come.'

"That threat nearly paralysed me with dread, for my father was to me a strange man whom I had
always feared; my mother, when she wanted to subdue me, only needed to say: 'I'll tell your
father.' I remembered the last time my father had whipped me. I was a big girl at the time,
more than fourteen years old, and working down town. I had to rise very early in the morning,
and it often happened that I would fall asleep again after my mother had called me. On that
particular morning mother had more difficulty than usual in arousing me, scolding me severely,
and I replied rather impudently, I suppose. She waited till I had got out of bed and was standing
in my bare arms and shoulders over the wash bowl, and then she told father, who came with a
long leather strap, which I knew well, as it was kept only for one purpose, and beat me so
severely that I carried the marks for a long time. The strap was about two inches broad, and
with this in one hand, whilst he held me firmly with the other, he belaboured me in such a
way that the end of the strap curled cunningly around my neck and under my arms and about my
little breast, making big welts which swelled at once to about a fourth of an inch in diameter
and were for a few days a most beautiful vivid scarlet in colour. Then they toned down and
new and milder tints came, and finally there was only a dull sort of green and blue effect.
Finally even these disappeared from my body, but not from me.

"Now, when I thought of the possible consequences of the lie I had told, I could feel those
marks on my shoulders and arms. And, at my mother's threat, the thought that I might be beaten
again made me flush with shame. A feeling of rebellion, of vivid revolt, came over me. Why
not resist, why not defend myself? I remembered what a factory girl had once told me--how she
had defended herself against her brother by striking him with a chair.

"That is what I will do, I said to myself, trembling with excitement, if my father tries to
beat me again. I am too old to be whipped any more. I don't care if he kills me, I will do
it. Perhaps when I die, and they see my grave, they'll be sorry.

"When father came home in the evening, he seemed to sense trouble at once, for suddenly coming
down on the table with his fist, he demanded: 'What in hell is the matter? Here you both are
going around with faces as if you were at a funeral. I'm working hard all day, and when I come
home at night, by God, I don't want to see such faces around me. What in hell is it, now tell me!'

"Mother told him, and he said: 'Very well, just wait till I've had supper, for I'm damned hungry,
then we'll have a little understanding with my lady, who's so mighty high-toned since she worked
for those swells. I'll soon show her, though, she is no better than we are.'

"When the important task of supper was over he called me to him. I was trembling in every limb,
for I knew that my father was a man of few words and that he would without delay proceed to
action. I managed to get a chair between him and me. He went to work deliberately, as if he
were a prize-fighter. First, he spat on his hands, and was about to give me a knock-out-blow,
when I, with the courage of desperation, raised the chair above my head, crying out, 'Father,
if you strike me, I'll hit you with this chair.' He was so astonished at my audacity that his
arms fell to his sides and he gazed at me as if he had lost his senses. I took advantage of
this pause to make for the door, but before I could escape, he seized me by the arm and hurled
me back into the room, and then with blood-shot eyes and bull-like voice he cursed and cursed.
My mother, fearing the effect of his terrible rage, tried to intercede, but he pushed her aside,
shouting, 'Oh, she's the daughter of her mother all right, and she'll turn out to be a damned
---- just like you!'

"He then came up to me, where I was standing really expecting my death, and to my surprise
only pressed his fist gently against my head saying: 'See how easily I could crush you. The
next time I hear anything about you, I will.' Cursing me and mother, he left the house and
he took him to a nearby saloon where he drank himself insensible. Toward morning he was brought
home. Poor man, he just couldn't bear to see long faces about him, especially after a hard
day's work!

"In a few days I secured another place, this time in a middle-class family. I remained there
nearly a year and was considered by my mistress a model of willingness, patience, endurance,
gentleness, and all the other slavish virtues. I never spoke except when spoken to and then
I answered so respectfully! The children might kick and abuse me in any way they chose without
any show of resentment from me. This my mistress noticed and duly commended. 'Those dear children,'
she said. 'You know they do not realise what they are about, and so one ought not to be harsh
to the dear pets.'

"I gave up reading books and even newspapers; partly I suppose because I had for the time satiated
myself, especially with sentimental and trashy novels, and had not yet learned to know real
literature, and partly because, in my state of humility, I listened to my mistress when she
said reading took too much time, that it was better to sew, dust, and the like, when I was
not busy with the children. Everything I do, I must do passionately, it seems, even to being
a slave. I gave up dances, too, and on my days out dutifully visited my parents. I had no friends
or companions and was in all respects what one calls a perfect servant--so perfect that the
friends of my mistress quite envied her the possession of so useful a slave.

"I got pleasure out of doing the thing so thoroughly; but yet it would not have been so interesting
to me if it had not been painful, too. I was enough of a sport to want as much depth of experience,
while it lasted, in that direction as in any other--in spite of, perhaps partly because of,
the pain. And what pain it was, at times! Who knows of the bitter hatred surging in my heart,
of the long nights spent in tears, of the terrible mental tortures I endured! Sometimes it
was as if an iron hand were squeezing my heart so that I almost died; sometimes as if a great
lump of stone lay on my chest. And my mistress seemed each day somehow to make the iron hand
squeeze tighter and tighter and the stone weigh heavier and heavier. If she had only known
what a deadly hatred I bore her--a hatred that would not have been so severe if I had not been
so good a servant--had given myself rope, had satisfied my emotions! If she had understood
that my calm, modest bearing was only a mask which hid a passionate soul keenly alive to the
suffering inflicted on me, she would have hesitated, I think, before she entrusted her precious
darlings to my care.

"This period of virtuous serving was the severest strain to which my nature, physical and moral,
was ever put. I finally became very ill, and had to be removed to my mother's house, as completely
broken in body as I had apparently been in spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I sat near the window gazing vacantly at the scene below. All the morning I had sat there
with that empty feeling in my soul. From time to time my mother spoke to me, but I answered
without turning my head. Since my illness I seemed to have lost all interest in life, and this,
although everybody was kind to me. My mother gave me novels to read and money to go to the
dances. The books I scarcely glanced at, and what I did read seemed so silly to me! And the
dances had lost their charm. I went once or twice, but the music did not awaken any emotion
in me, and I sat dully in a corner watching, without any desire to join in. And this, when
I was hardly past sixteen years of age!

"The day before, I had been down town looking for a job in the stores, for my mother had told
me that I might work in the shops or factories again, if I wished. Although even this assurance
failed to interest me, I had obediently tried to find a position, but oh! how weary I was and
how I longed for some quiet corner where I might sit for ever and ever and ever without moving.
This morning I was wearier than ever, my feet seemed weighted, and I could hardly drag them
across the room. My mother asked me anxiously, if I were ill. 'No, no,' I said. 'Then my child,'
she replied, 'you must positively find work. You father is getting old and it would be a shame
to have him support a big girl like you--big enough to make her own living. Don't you want
to go back to your last place? She would be very glad to have you, I am sure.'

"This last remark aroused me, and I replied that I would never go back, even if I had to starve.
'Don't worry, mother,' I said, 'I'll go now, and if I don't find a place, I won't come back.'
'Oh, what a torture it is to have children,' moaned my mother. 'Don't you know your father
would kill me if you did not return?'

"Her words fell on heedless ears, for I was already half way down the stairs. I bought a paper
and in it read this advertisement, 'Wanted: a neat girl to do second work in suburb near Chicago.
Apply to No. -- Wabash Avenue.' Within an hour I presented myself at Mr. Eaton's office, was
engaged by him, received a railroad ticket and instructions how to go to Kenilworth the following
evening. On my way home I made up my mind to tell nobody where I was going. I packed my few
belongings and told my mother that I had secured a place with a certain Mrs. So-and-so who
lived in Such-and-such a street. I lied to the best of my ability and satisfied my mother thoroughly.

"The next morning I went away, and was soon speeding to Kenilworth, where I was met at the
station by my future mistress and her mother, two extremely aristocratic women, who received
me kindly and walked with me to my new home, instructing me on the way in regard to my duties
in the household. These consisted mainly in being scrupulously neat, answering the door-bell
and waiting on the table. I began at once to work very willingly and obligingly, and also helped
the other girl working in the household, and everybody was kind to me in return. I did not,
however, take this kindness to heart as I would have done a year or two earlier, for I had
learned to my cost that kindness of this kind was generally only on the surface.

"But my new mistress soon proved to be a true gentlewoman, who treated her servants like human
beings. To work for a mistress who did not try to interfere with my private life or regulate
my religion or my morals was an unusual and pleasing experience for me. This lady was as tolerant
and broad-minded toward her servants as she was toward herself, rather more so, I think, for
cares and age had removed from her desires and temptations for which she still had sympathy
when showing themselves in younger people. I soon saw, to my astonishment, that things which
my mother and my other employers had told me were evil, and which I had learned almost to think
were so, did not seem evil to this sweet lady. I remember how kindly and sadly she said to
me once, when I had spent half the night out with a young man: 'Little Marie, it is a sad thing
in life that what seems to us the sweetest and the best, and what indeed is the sweetest and
the best, often leads to our harm and the harm of others. It would be foolish of me to pretend
to know which of your actions is good and which is bad; but remember that life is very difficult
and hard to lead right, and that you must be careful and always thoughtful of what is good
and what is evil. I myself have never learned to know for sure what is good or evil, but as
I grow older I am certain that we act always for the one or for the other.'

"Under these conditions, in the home of such a sweet and tolerant woman, all the throbbing
joy of life and youth awoke again within me. Cut off from the old scenes and companions, I
entered upon a new existence. I made many friends with the young people in the neighbourhood,
and for the first time felt free and without the opposition of anybody. I had not written my
mother or in any way let her know where I was, and no disturbing word came from my past. I
sang all day at my work, and in the evening I joined my new companions and together we roamed
and frolicked to our hearts' content. I had many young men friends and could satisfy my desire
to be in their society, talk to, dance with them, without arousing evil thoughts in others
or, consequently, in ourselves. 

And in a minute or two he was able to declare that the injury had
been done to the lady's ankle, the lady herself having assisted him
to this conclusion by coming to her senses, groaning, and putting
her hand down to the suffering joint.

The conductor frowned.

"What is the lady's name and address, please, ma'am?" he asked of Mrs. Tarbell.
"I have to make a report of the accident."

"You'll find it out soon enough," said a thin man with a fresh complexion,
very silvery hair, and spectacles.

"The company will not have to wait long for the information." He looked
about with a cheerful smile, and the conductor glared at him contemptuously.

"She never tried to get on while you were going," continued the thin
man.

"It was your driver; that's what it was."

"The lady's name is Stiles, conductor," said Mrs. Tarbell,--"Stiles;
and she lives--dear me!--on Pulaski Street.

Can I do anything for you, doctor?"

"You might send
your boy for a carriage," said the doctor, who was engaged in removing
Mrs. Stiles's shoe.

"Nothing else, thank you, unless you happen to have some lead-water
about you."

He gave a professional smile, and Mrs. Stiles groaned dismally.

Mrs. Tarbell despatched John for the carriage, and then, turning, and
blushing in a way that was rather out of keeping with her tone of
voice, she said, "Now, I should be obliged if you gentlemen who saw
the accident would furnish me with your names and addresses."

On hearing this the crowd began to diminish rapidly; but the man with
the red moustache set a good example by giving his name loudly and
promptly as "Oscar B. Mecutchen, tobacconist, d'reckly opposite the
City Hall."

So three or four other men allowed Mrs. Tarbell to set them down as
observers of the disaster.

The gentleman
in spectacles was named Stethson, another man, a tall, fat-cheeked
countryman, Vickers, and a dried up little party, in a Grand-Army-of-the-Republic
suit, Parthenheimer.

Mrs. Tarbell had the names down pat, and scrutinized each prospective
witness carefully, as if warning him that it would be no use for him
to give a fictitious name in the hope of evading his duties, as she
would now be able to pick him out of a regiment.

"I am very much obliged to you," she said, in a stately manner.

"Now, you all agree that the accident was the result of the negligence
of the driver of the car?"

"Why, yes, certainly," they all agreed at once.

"Leastways--" said Mecutchen.

"That is--" said Parthenheimer.

"How was it, anyway?" asked Stethson.

"Thought you saw it," cried the others, turning on him instantly.

"So I did," said Stethson; "but I thought I'd like to hear what you
gentlemen's impression was."

"Well," said Mecutchen and Vickers, the tall man, together, tipping
back their hats with a simultaneous and precisely similar movement
on the part of each,--nothing is more indicative of the careful independence
of the average American than the way in which he always keeps his
head covered in the presence of his lawyer,--"Well," said Vickers
and Mecutchen.

Mr. Mecutchen bowed to Mr. Vickers, and Mr. Vickers bowed to Mr. Mecutchen,
with a sort of grotesque self-effacement.

Mr. Vickers waved his hand, and Mr. Mecutchen proceeded.

"Why," said he, "the lady stopped the car in the middle of the block,--just
like a woman,--got on the platform, car started with a jerk, and
she fell off."

Vickers and Parthenheimer nodded assent, but Stethson said that his view
of it was that the car started off again while she was trying to
get on.

"That makes it stronger," said Mecutchen.

"Well, of course," said Stethson, settling his spectacles farther back
on his nose; and Vickers murmured that you couldn't have it too strong,
as he knew from the point of view (as he said) of cows.

"It's wonderful what you can get for cows," he added pensively.

"Ag'in' a railroad company," said the grizzled old Parthenheimer,
"the stronger the better, because some cases, no matter how aggerawated
they are, you only git a specific sum and no damages.

       

But a railroad case, which is a damage case right through, the worse
they are the more you git.

I had a little niece to be killed by a freight-train, and they took off that pore little girl's head,
and her right arm, and her left leg, all three, like it was done
by a mowing-machine,--so clean cut, you know.

Well, sir, they got a werdick for six thousand dollars, my brother
and his wife did; and their lawyer stood to it that the mangling
brought in three thousand; and I think he was right about it, too."

"Six thousand!" said Vickers, with immense appreciation.

"The court set it aside for being excessive," said Parthenheimer,"
and aft'werds they compromised for less.

But there it was. And the way it was done was odd, too. Right arm
and left leg."

"Ah," said Vickers, "living right on a railroad, the way I do, you
see some queerer accidents than that.

Now, I remember--"

But Mrs. Tarbell found this conversation growing quite too ghastly to be
listened to with composure, so she turned abruptly toward the sofa.

The doctor was now bathing and examining Mrs. Stiles's ankle, and Mrs. Stiles
looked not merely the picture but the dramatic materialization of
misery.

"How do you feel now, Mrs. Stiles?

How do you think she is, doctor?" These two questions were put in Mrs.
Tarbell's sweetest tones.

Mrs. Stiles lay for a moment without answering, but the doctor replied
that he was afraid it was a nasty business.

"There is a dislocation, and there may be nothing more, except a sprain,"
he said.

"But it will be impossible to tell until the swelling is reduced; and if
there is a fracture of the fibula, why, such a complication is apt to be serious."

Mrs.
Stiles groaned feebly, and then looked up at Mrs. Tarbell with gratitude.
"I never thought to be so much trouble to you," she murmured.

"Do not think of that for a moment," said Mrs. Tarbell. "If I only
had my cologne-bottle," she said, half aloud, in an apologetic voice.

This was one of the luxuries she had refused herself in her professional
toilet; more than this, she did not allow herself to carry a smelling-bottle,
though Mr. Juddson had told her it could be used with great effect
to disconcert an opposing counsel.

"I am afraid you are suffering very much," she went on.

"Yes, ma'am," said Mrs. Stiles sadly.

"If I hadn't only been such a fool as to try to get on that there car while
it was a-going."

Mrs. Tarbell started. The doctor
rose and laughed.

"You don't mean that," said he.

"Mean what, doctor?"

"That
you tried to get on while the car was going. All these gentlemen here
say the car started while you were trying to get on, which is a very
different thing, you know."

The doctor had evidently kept his ears open while attending to the
sufferer.

Mrs. Tarbell, rather red in the face, kept silent, not knowing exactly
what she ought to do.

"I don't know," said Mrs. Stiles feebly.

"I don't s'pose I remember much."

"Of course you don't," said the doctor cheerfully.

"Bless
you, you'll sue the company and have a famous verdict; I wouldn't
take ten thousand dollars for your chances if I had them.

You observe," he went on confidentially to Mrs. Tarbell, "I am doing
my best for the community of interests which, ought to exist among
the learned professions.

I raise this poor woman's spirits by suggesting to her dreams of enormous
damages, and at the same time I promote litigation, to the great
advantage of her lawyer.

I think that is the true scientific spirit."

"I--I--" began Mrs. Tarbell, in some confusion.

"Beg pardon?" said the doctor. "Well, I must be off. I've done all I can
for the poor woman.

She ought to send for her own doctor as soon as she gets home. I suppose--will
you--?" He looked at Mrs. Tarbell doubtfully, as if wondering whether
he ought to take it for granted that she was in charge of the case.

"I
will tell her," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"I could tell her myself," said the doctor.

"To be sure.

Well, if I
could only inform her lawyer what I've done for him, he might induce
my fair patient to employ me permanently."

He smiled at his joke, shook his head waggishly, and turned to look
for his hat.

As Mrs. Tarbell
looked after him in some perplexity, John, the office-boy, came back
to report that the carriage was engaged and at the door; and Mrs.
Stiles was presently carried down-stairs again, it being quite impossible
for her even to limp.

But before she was lifted up she turned her head
and beckoned to Mrs. Tarbell.

"Could I," she
said,--"could I have a case against the railway company?"

"Ye-es,--I suppose so," Mrs. Tarbell answered.

"Did they say it was the fault of the conductor that I fell off that
car?"

"Of the
driver,--yes."

"Well, then, ma'am, would you advise me to bring a case against them?"

"You had better decide
for yourself," said Mrs. Tarbell faintly.

But then, remembering that it was her duty to advise, she added,
"Yes, I think you ought to sue."

"Then you'll
take the case, Mrs. Tarbell, won't you, please?" said Mrs. Stiles,
closing her eyes again, as if satisfied of the future.

Mrs. Tarbell!

There
was a general movement of surprise as the lady lawyer's name was
pronounced, and the doctor was so much taken aback that heh burst
out laughing.

"I'm sure I beg your pardon, Mrs. Tarbell," he cried.

"I had no idea in the world--"

"Ah," said Stethson,
"I looked at the sign on the door coming in. I knew it was the
lady lawyer. My, if my wife could see you, Mrs. Tarbell!"

"And I never knew who I was talking to!" grumbled Mecutchen disgustedly.

A
quarter of an hour later, when Mr. Juddson returned to his office,
Mrs. Tarbell was engaged in drawing up a paper which ran as follows:

ANNETTE
GORSLEY STILES } Court of Common vs. } Pleas.

THE BLANK AND DASH } May Term, 1883. AVENUES PASSENGER } No. ---- RAILWAY
CO. }

To the Prothonotary of the said Court:

Issue summons in case returnable the first Monday in May, 1883.

TARBELL, pro plff.

It was a precipe for a writ.

"Alexander!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in an expressive voice, regardless of
the office-boy.

"Yes?" said Mr. Juddson.

The referee had refused to admit some of his testimony.

"Alexander, I have a client," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Do you tell me so?" replied Mr. Juddson absently, as he redisarranged
the papers upon his table. "I hope--Bless me, where is that--?

Mrs. Tarbell, have you seen anything of an envelope?--John, what became
of the papers in Muggins and Bylow?

I gave them to you."

Mrs. Tarbell, deeply mortified, resumed her occupation, and completed
the precipe by writing the words, "Tarbell, pro plff."

Mr. Juddson's papers were found for him, under his nose, and he was
beginning to say that he was going out to lunch, when the enormity
of his conduct made itself apparent to him.

"By George!" he said, stopping short, "you told me you had a client
at last, eh, Mrs. Tarbell?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Tarbell
coldly.

"Why,--bless my soul!

It's your first client, is it not?

And what kind of a case has your ewe-lamb brought you?

Come, tell me about it. I did not properly appreciate the communication."
And he went over to Mrs. Tarbell's desk, upon which he sat himself
down in a position which Mrs. Tarbell had formerly considered very
undignified; but now she could not help feeling that it was really a
legal attitude.

She looked up with a smile, and then, though with a little shame,
displayed the precipe.

"Well, that's good," said Mr. Juddson.

"Accident case, I suppose. What is it? Death, and damages for the
widow?--for I see there are no children,--or was the plaintiff herself
the victim of the accident?

Your
sex has finally decided to stand by you, it seems."

"I shan't send out the writ just yet," said Mrs. Tarbell, blushing.

"I was--wanted to see how the precipe would look.

I must see the plaintiff again, I think, before I advise her
definitely to sue."

"Hasn't she a case?"

"Yes--but--"

"What nonsense!" cried Juddson. "Come, my dear, don't be a goose,
and don't lose a return-day.

Otherwise,
I shall buy you a sewing-machine."

"Aren't you pleased, Alexander?" said Mrs. Tarbell, with a little
effusion.

"My dear, I'm delighted. I hope that in five years' time you will be supporting
me and my family.

Your sister-in-law will be speechless with jealousy. I congratulate you.
Hum--The Blank and Dash Avenues Company? Well, you won't have to send
John very far with your copies of the pleadings.

Pope was appointed attorney for the company last week, in place of
old Slyther, who resigned, you know."

"Pope?" said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Yes,--the Honorable Franklin."

"Goodness!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in a tone of inexpressible disgust.

"By jingo; you are not fond of him, are you? Hem!

Well, as a general rule, I should advise you to put personal feelings
entirely out of the question; but, as this is your first case, perhaps
it would be just as well for you to have me with you, and let me--hum--well,
let me take the jury."

"Alexander! do you think I am afraid of Mr. Pope?"

"N-no;
but Pope is a blackguard, and very shady, and, it might be unpleasant
for you; and I'd do that, if I were you."

Mrs. Tarbell's spirits rose. "I will do nothing of the sort, Alexander,"
she said; "though it is very kind of you to suggest it; and I will--I
will bet you,"--determinedly,--"

I will bet you a copy of the new edition of Baxter's Digest that
I beat him."

THOMAS WHARTON.

A CARCANET.

I
give thee, love, a carcanet With all the rainbow splendor set, Of diamonds
that drink the sun.

Of emeralds that feed upon His light as doth
the evergreen, A memory of spring between This frost of whiter pearls
than snow, And warmth of violets below A wreath of opalescent mist,
Where blooms the tender amethyst.

Here,
too, the captives of the mine-- The sapphire and the ruby--shine, Rekindling
each a hidden spark, Unquenched by buried ages dark, Nor dimmed beneath
the jewelled skies, Save by the sunlight of thine eyes.

JOHN B. TABB.

IN A SALT-MINE.

There were five of us. The little New-Yorker, plump,
blonde, and pretty, I call Cecilia: that is not her name, but if
she suggested any saint it was the patron saint of music.

Her
soul was full of it, and it ran off the ends of her fingers in the
most enchanting manner.

Elise, half French, as you would see at a
glance, was from the Golden Gate,--as dainty and pretty a bit of
femininity as ever wore French gowns with the inimitable American air. Elise
could smile her way straight through the world. All barriers gave way
before her dimples, and with her on board ship we never feared icebergs
at sea, feeling confident they would melt away before her glance.

Thirdly, there was myself, and then I come
to the masculine two-fifths of our party. First, the curate. He was young
in years and in his knowledge of the great world. His parish had sent
him to the Continent with us to regain his somewhat broken health.
He sometimes spoke of himself as a shepherd, and he liked to talk
of the Church as his bride: he always blushed when he looked straight
at Elise.

Cecilia liked him because his
clerical coat gave tone to the party, and his dignity was sufficient
for us all, thus saving us the trouble of assuming any. Lastly, there
was Samayana, which was not his name either, from Bombay,--a real, live
East-Indian nabob. In his own country he travelled with three tents,
a dozen servants, as many horses, and always carried his laundress
with him. Yet he never seemed lonely with us,--which we thought very agreeable
in him.

Crawford had just created Mr. Isaacs, and we fancied there
was a resemblance,--barring the wives,--and he told us such graphic
stories of life in India that we were not always sure in just which
quarter of the globe we were touring.

Both Samayana
and the curate were picturesque--for men. Two beings more opposed
never came together, yet they liked each other thoroughly. Samayana
was greatly admired in European society for his color, his gift as a raconteur,
and the curious rings he wore. He was very dusky, and Cecilia, being
very blonde, valued him as a most effective foil and adjunct.

We
were seeing Germany in the most leisurely fashion, courting the unexpected
and letting things happen to us.

On the day of which I write we spent the early morning on the Königsee,
in Bavaria, the loveliest sheet of water in Germany, vying in grandeur
with any Swiss or Italian lake.

Its color is that of the pheasant's
breast, and the green mountain-sides, almost perpendicular in places,
rise till their peaks are in the clouds and their snows are perpetual.

Stalwart, bronzed peasant girls, in the short skirts
of the Bavarian costume, rowed us about. A few years ago, in answer to
a petition, King Louis I. promised them that never in his reign should
steam supplant them.

They
laughed happily and looked proudly at their muscle when we hinted at their
being tired.

We landed at different points
and strolled into wooded valleys, visited artificial hermitages, stopped
for a bite at a restaurant connected with a royal hunting-château,
and listened lazily to Elise's telling of the legends of the region,
accompanied by the music of some little waterfall coming from the
snow above and gleefully leaping into the lake.

We crossed the rocky, wild pasture-land
lying between the Königsee and the Obersee, that tiny lake that faithfully
gives back as a mirror all the crags, peaks, and snowy heights which
hide it away there as if it were indeed the precious opal you may
fancy it to be when viewed from above.

We drifted back to the little inn, where we were approached by a respectful Kutscher,
who asked if we would not like to go down into a salt-mine. Whatever
we did, it was with one accord, and the answer came in chorus, "Ja,
gewiss!"

Elise glanced down at her dainty toilet, a look instantly
interpreted by the Kutscher, who explained that costumes for the descent
were furnished, that the exploration was not fatiguing, and that the
carriages were ready.

It was all done in an "Augenblick," the bill was paid, the Trinkgeld was
scattered, and we were rattling away through as beautiful a region
as you will find, even in Switzerland.

The snow-peaks were
dazzlingly white in the sunshine; in the ravines and defiles the
darkness lingers from night to night; singing, leaping Alpine streams
came like molten silver from the glaciers over the rocky ledges and
through the hanging forests, and a swift river ran through this happy,
fertile valley of peace and plenty in which our roadway wound.

The peasants looked content and well-to-do,
and were picturesquely clothed. We stopped an old man and bargained
for the quaint, antique silver buttons on his coat, and paid him
twice its weight in silver money for the big silver buckle at his
belt. We were stopped at the frontier, and accommodatingly rose while
the custom-officers politely looked under the carriage-seats.

The
wine we had just drunk was not taxable, while that we were about
to drink was: so we presented our remaining bottles to the officers
to save them the trouble of making change. Up to that time we had
turned our horses to the right: once over the Austrian line, custom
demanded we should turn to the left, a change to which the Kutscher
readily accommodated himself.

One is kept geographically informed
in that region by this difference in manners on the high-road in Austria
and Bavaria.

We argued a little about the fittingness of women working in the fields.
Cecilia thought it preferable to washing dishes, and one of us, who believes
herself not born to sew, maintained that to rake hay was more agreeable
than sitting at sewing-machines or making shirts at twenty cents
apiece after the manner of New-York workwomen.

But once indignation and
excitement took possession of us all as we caught sight of a bare-footed,
slight young girl toiling up a ladder and carrying mortar along a scaffold
to men laying bricks on the second story of a new building. The girl
had a complexion like a rose-leaf, her uncovered hair gleamed like gold
in the sunshine, her head was exquisitely set on her shoulders.

The curate
sighed deeply, Samayana uttered a strong word in Hindoostanee, and
there was a feminine cry of "Shameful!" when the girl, putting down
her load, folded her white arms, whose sinew and muscle an athlete
might have envied, and, with teeth and smile as faultless as our Elise's,
threw us down a "Gruss Gott!"

If there ever beamed content and happiness
from human face we saw it in that of this peasant beauty, who had
no conception of our commiseration.

We gave her back a "God greet thee!" "All
the same," said Cecilia indignantly, "women should not carry mortar."

We had noticed that Cecilia's indignation on account
of the workingwoman of Germany was extreme if the woman was pretty.

We came at last to the mouth of the mine, from which issued a narrow
railway for the transportation of the salt-ore, and above, zigzag
on the mountain-side, ran the conduit carrying the salt, still in
liquid form, to the boiling-house.

A waterfall
four hundred feet high furnished power for the great pump. About the
entrance to the mine clustered a number of buildings.

Many carriages were already there, for
it was the height of the tourists' season, and this was the show-mine
of the Salzkammergut.

Some military
officers were standing about, a dozen or more natives lounged on the
piazzas, and nearly every carriage contained one or more occupants,
evidently waiting for travelling-companions then in the mine. There
was the fat woman who couldn't think of such an exploration, the nervous
woman who hated dark places and never went underground, a few invalids
and some chattering girls and young men who had previously been through
the mine and had come over from Salzburg for the drive, and some very
fine youths and young women who wouldn't be seen in a miner's costume.
There were a score or more of these travellers, and as many more coachmen,
and miners off duty, hanging about. A building on the opposite side
of the road was indicated to us ladies as the place in which we were
to change our costumes. Now, here was a pleasant gauntlet to run in
male attire! However, a hundred strangers were not to deter us, and,
possibly, this costume might be becoming. There were worse figures
in the world than ours, and who knew but this miners' dress might
show our forms to an advantage at which they had never been seen before?
Encouraged by the thought, we gave our treasures into safe keeping
and permitted the attendant to disrobe us. She spoke a dialect which
had little meaning to us, and we carried on our conversation by signs.

She
hung our habiliments on pegs, giving Elise's a little womanly caress
for their prettiness. Perhaps this added
depth to her dissipation, but it took away from it all quality of joy as well as of peace.
If her sensuality and her despair had been all there was in her, or if these had constituted
her main characteristics, this story would never have been written. Perhaps another tale might
have been told, but it would have been the story of a submerged class, not prostitutes, white
slaves; and then it would have been the story of a submerged class, not of an individual temperament.

What was it that kept Marie in all really essential ways out of this class of social victims?
It was because, in the first place, of the fact that her nature demanded something better than
what the life of the prostitute afforded. And it was natural that the greater quality of personality
that she possessed should attract the kind of love and social support needed essentially to
justify to herself her instincts. When she was very young Marie secured the genuine love of
two strong and remarkable personalities; and at a later time, there gathered about these three,
other people who enlarged the group, which gave to each member of it the social support needed
to remove essential despair and desperate self-disapproval.

One of these two persons so necessary to Marie's larger life was a woman whom she had met several
years previous to this point in the story.

This woman was a cook, Katie by name. She was born in Germany, and her young girlhood was spent
in the old country. She had only a rudimentary education, and even now speaks broken English.
But she was endowed with a healthy, independent nature, a spontaneous wit, and a strong demand
to take care of something and to love.

As natural as a young dog, she never thought of resisting a normal impulse. Her life as a girl
in Germany was as free and untrammelled as a happy breeze. She lived in a little garrison town
in the South, and the German soldiers did no essential harm to her and the other young girls
of the place. These things were deemed laws of nature in her community. What would have been
dreadful harm to a young American girl was only an occasional moment of anxiety to her. It
never occurred to her that it was possible to resist a man. "I had to," she said, very simply,
and did not seem to regret it any more than that she was compelled to eat. She is also very
fond of her food.

She came to America and worked as cook in private families. She was capable and strong and
was never out of a job. She never took any "sass" from her mistress; in this respect she was
quite up to date among American "help."

At the time she first met Marie she had been working for a family several years, and had reduced
her employer to a state of wholesome awe. She remained, like a queen, in the kitchen, whence
she banished all objectionable intruders. Her mistress had a married daughter, also living
in the house, who at first was wont to give orders to Katie, and to interfere with her generally.
One day Katie drove her out of the kitchen with a volley of broken English. The daughter complained
to the mother, who took Katie's side. "You don't belong in the kitchen," she said to her indignant
daughter.

This episode filled Katie with contempt for her mistress. 

No, taps are not of the first importance, though, properly polished,
they look well.

But no bath is complete without one of those attractive bridges or trays where one puts the
sponges and the soap. Conveniences like that are a direct stimulus
to washing. The first time I met one I washed myself all over two or
three times simply to make the most of knowing where the soap was.
Now and then, in fact, in a sort of bravado I deliberately lost it,
so as to be able to catch it again and put it back in full view on
the tray.

You can also rest your feet on the tray when you are washing them,
and so avoid cramp.

Again, I like a bathroom where there is an electric bell just above the
bath, which you can ring with the big toe. This is for use when
one has gone to sleep in the bath and the water has frozen, or when
one has begun to commit suicide and thought better of it.

Apart from these two occasions it can be used for Morsing instructions
about breakfast to the cook--supposing you have a cook.

And if you haven't a cook a little bell-ringing in the basement does no
harm.

But the most extraordinary thing about the modern bath is that there
is no provision for shaving in it.

Shaving in the bath I regard as the last word in systematic luxury. But in the ordinary bath it is very
difficult. There is nowhere to put anything. There ought to be a kind of shaving
tray attached to every bath, which you could swing in on a flexible
arm, complete with mirror and soap and strop, new blades and shaving-papers
and all the other confounded paraphernalia.

Then, I think, shaving would be almost tolerable, and there wouldn't
be so many of these horrible beards about.

The same applies to smoking. It is incredible that to-day in the twentieth century
there should be no recognised way of disposing of a cigarette-end in
the bath. Personally I only smoke pipes in the bath, but it is impossible
to find a place in which to deposit even a pipe so that it will not
roll off into the water. But I have a brother-in-law who smokes cigars in
the bath, a disgusting habit. I have often wondered where he hid
the ends, and I find now that he has made a cache of them in the
gas-ring of the geyser. One day the ash will get into the burners
and then the geyser will explode. I absolutely had to, but I
think I did him no harm and he was certainly my salvation. But I didn't let Marie know anything
about it. She was too young. When she found out, years afterwards, she was quite cross with
me about it."

This kind of relation existed between Katie and Marie for several years. About the time the
girl went to Kenilworth and had her idyllic experience, Katie married. Nick was a good sort
of a man, easy and happy, and a sober and constant labourer. Katie had saved some money, in
her careful German way, had even a bank-account of several hundred dollars. It was not an exciting
marriage; neither of them was very young or very much in love, at least Katie was not, but
it was a good marriage of convenience, so to speak, and it might have lasted if it had not
been, as we shall see, for Marie, and Katie's affection for her.

When Marie started in on her career of wildness, Katie and Nick, her husband, had a little
home together. Into this home Marie was always welcomed by Katie, but Nick was not so cordial.
They knew about the girl's looseness, and in their tolerant Southern German way, they did not
so much mind that, and Katie was distinctly sympathetic: Marie was old enough now, she thought.
But Nick did not like the hold the girl had on Katie's affection.

"You'll leave me for her, sometime," he would say to his wife, ominously. Katie would laugh
and call him an old fool. She couldn't foresee the circumstances that would one day realise
her husband's fears.

It was about this time that Marie met the man who has influenced her more deeply than anyone
else or anything else in her life, who gave her a social philosophy, though to be sure what
would seem to most people a thoroughly perverse and subversive social philosophy; but by means
of which she had a social background, and a saving justification--was saved from being a mere
outcast.

Terry, at the time he and Marie met, was about thirty-five years old and an accomplished and
confirmed social rebel. He had worked for many years at his trade, and was an expert tanner.
But, deeply sensitive to the injustice of organised society, he had quit work and had become
what he called an anarchist. His character was at that time quite formed, while the young girl's
was not. It was he who was to be the most important factor in the conscious part of her education.
But to explain his influence on Marie, it is necessary to explain him,--his character, and
a part of his previous history.

CHAPTER VI

Terry

Terry is a perfect type of the idealist. We shall see how, in the midst of what the world calls
immorality and sordidness, this quality in him was ever present; even when it led to harshness
to persons or facts. Not fitting into the world, his attitude toward it, his actions in it,
and his judgment of it, are keen and impassioned, but, not fitting the actual facts, sometimes
unjust and cruel. Tender and sensitive as a child, his indignation is so uncompromising that
it often involves injustice and wrong. But the beauty in him is often startlingly pure, and
reveals itself in unexpected conditions and environment. I cannot do better in an attempt to
present him and his history than to quote voluminously from his letters to me, adding only
what is necessary for the sake of clearness. He wrote for me the following poetic outline of
his life:[1]

"The fate of the immigrant, sprung from peasant stock, is to grow up in the slums and tenements
of the great city. Such a fate was mine. To exchange the rack-rented but limitless fields of
Irish landlordism for the rickety and equally rack-rented tenements, with the checkerboard
streets, where all must keep moving, is only adding sordidness to spare sadness. Surely, the
birthday's injury is felt in a deep sense by the poor. But the patient fatalism of the peasant
(so fatal to himself) is equal to every calamity.

"I came from an exceptionally well-to-do family of tenement-farmers, but a few generations
of prolific birth rate, with the help of successive famines and successful landlordism, reduced
us to the point of eviction. Enough was saved from the wreck to pay for our passage in a sailing
vessel to America. After being successfully landed, or stranded, on New York, my father, with
the true instinct of the peasant, became a squatter on the prairies of Goose Island. Here we
put up, in the year 1864, a frame shanty of one room, in which the nine of us tried to live.
My father, the only bread-winner, made from seven to eight dollars a week. Absolute communism
in the deepest and most harmonious faithfulness prevailed. Truly, as Burns says:

    'We had nae wish, save to be glad,
     Nor want but when we thirsted;
     We hated naught but to be sad.'

"I rejoice to say that I never got over this first blessed lesson in communism; even though
it was on a small scale, the family contained the unity of a Greek tragedy. The heart that
throbs with little things may finally throb for the world. And I learned nothing in these days
except the lessons of the heart. The only necessary thing of which we had almost enough was
bread. The struggle for existence, began on one continent, has continued on the other, with
the surviving members of the family standing shoulder to shoulder for lack of room.

"Armed with a throbbing faith in everything but myself, I boldly and voluntarily entered the
arena of commercial activity at the pliable age of eight. My first job away from home was in
a mattress factory. Ah, that first job! I was a triumphant Archimedes who had found his fulcrum.
I helped move the world, for twelve hours a day and for two dollars a week.

"Then and later, I, like all people who possess nothing, found that my best visions have come
to me while at work on something in which I had wistful faith; and when I lost faith I blindly
followed the economists and philosophers who can never know the mystic power of work over the
worker. And it may be that herein lies the secret of the philosopher's ignorance and the worker's
slavery. A man stands to his job because of the visions that come to him only when at work.

"Though I helped move the world, I was not an Atlas, and at last, I grew tired, for I found
the world moved me out of all proportion to my capacity. Even at an early age, I found that
I had not the heart for the fray. Stamped on my narrow forehead, on my whole being, perhaps,
so clearly that every unsympathetic boss could understand at once, was the mark of the visionary.
My pitiable willingness to work was truly tragic.

"We were an eccentric family, especially in our peculiar aloofness from others. We clung desperately
to one another long after the necessity was past. Neither eviction nor commerce could disband
us. Only marriage or death could separate us. Though we were Catholics on the surface, we were
pagans at bottom. I had fed my fill on the fairy tales of Ireland. Fortunately, these fairy
tales were told to me, not read, and told in such a way that they led me to seek no individual
foothold in a world at war with my heart: they helped to take away what the world calls personal
ambition. They strengthened my natural quality as a dreamer, my tendency to care only for the
welfare of the soul. If I could bring about no change in this world, it should effect no alteration
in me. This, as I grew older, became a conscious passion with me: not to allow myself to be
affected by the world, or its ideals. Such was, at an early age, my romantic resolution. Now,
as the colour in my hair begins to match the grey in my eyes, and I look back over the changes
of almost half a century, I detect in the wreck of my life almost a harmony, and something
rises above the ruins.

"On that frail foundation from fairy land my trembling imagination rested, even amid the sordid
developments of my experience. How often did I take my youthful oath that the day should never
come when I would out-grow my feeling for all the world! I have been put to the test, and,
I hope, not found wanting.

"The end of my first ten years of life found me regretfully divesting myself, one by one, of
my beloved folk-lore tales, and reverently folding them away, in preparation for the fray.
I worked, during my second ten years, as a journeyman tanner and currier; knocked by fate and
the boss from shop to shop and from town to town. I naturally sought solidarity with my fellows.
Class feeling awoke in me, and voluntarily and enthusiastically I joined the union of my craft.
Though I strained at its narrow confines, I was at one with my class. During the '70's and
'80's the eight hour movement laid me off on several strikes, long and short. This enforced
leisure was not idleness for me, for in these periods the world of science, art and philosophy
shot their stray gleams into my startled mind, and I found time to ponder on what leisure might
do for the mob. What did it not do for me, and what has it not done for me since? And I in
the very ecstasy of my being was one of this mob.

"Whole hours, whole nights, I stole from my needed rest to read and ponder on our human fate.
Sundays! Things after a day's labour incomprehensible to my stunned brain were easily grasped
on a glorious morning of religious leisure. The apathy of my fellows--how well I understood
it when, with nerves unstrung and muscles relaxed, after a tense twelve hours of toil, I fell
asleep over my beloved books! And how well, too, I understood their amusement--the appeal of
the poor man's club!--when in gay carousal we tried to forget what we were. Even in the saloon
and dance-hall we told tales of the shop! Oh, the irony of it! Was there no escape from the
madness of the mart, no surcease from the frenzy of the factory or the shibboleth of the shop!

"Yes! How well I recall the gay transformation in my shop-mates when the whistle blew on Saturday
night. The dullest and most morose showed intelligence then. The prospect of rest, be it ever
so remote--even in the hereafter--roused them from their lethargy. How alert and cheerful we
were on holidays, even the prolonged holiday of a strike brought its pinched joys. Quite a
number of my ancient comrades of industry looked forward to the Poor House with a hopefulness
born of thwarted toil. The luckiest ones out of the thousands whom I knew were those few who,
overcome at last, could find some sheltering fireside and keep out of the way until nature
laid them off for good; the living envied the dead.

"I took part in the famous bread riots of '77, when I had to fly from the shop, before an infuriated
mob armed with sticks, stones, pikes, and pitchforks. In the same year I saw from a distance
the great battle of the viaduct, when the mob, armed as in the bread riots, faced the federal
troops and were shot down and dispersed. It was about this time, too, that I stood by as the
'Lehr und Wehr Verein' in their blue blouses of toil and shouldered rifles strode ominously
onward. These men were the first fruits in America of Bakunin's ideals and work in Europe.
They, too, were put down, by an act of legislature.

"These proletarian protagonists whipped me into a fury. My father, too, had his rifle, and
when drunk he invoked it, as it hung on the wall, thus: 'Come down, my sweet rifle, how brightly
you shine! What tyrant dare stifle that sweet voice of thine.' But my father was only a Fenian
revolutionist; and as it was only a step for me from Ireland to Internationalism, I was soon
beyond his creed.

"We had come to America during war times, with the spirit of revolt already germinating within
us; and although we were against slavery, our sympathies were with the South. We were natural
as well as political democrats, and even when the mob was in the wrong, I always became one
of it. How finely elemental, how responsive to the best and the worst, is the mob when the
crisis comes!

"Although my thoughts were forming through my readings and the larger events about me, the
everyday life in the shop was perhaps the deepest cause of my growing revolt. The atmosphere
of the frenzied factory is well calculated to produce a spirit of sullen and smouldering rebellion
in the minds of its less hardened inmates. From the domineering boss down to the smallest understrapper,
the spirit of the jailer and turnkey is dominant. Much worse than solitary confinement is it
to be sentenced to ten hours of silence and drudgery. The temptation to speak to the man at
your side is well nigh irresistible. But to speak means to be marked, to have hurled at you
a humiliating reprimand, or, as a last resort, to be discharged.

"No lunching between meals is allowed, although it is a well-known fact that few workers have
the appetite at dawn to eat sufficient food to last them till their cold lunch at noon. From
this comes the terrible habit, among the older toilers, of the eye-opener, a gulp of rot-gut
whiskey, taken to arouse the sleeping stomach and force sufficient food on it to last till
noon. As a convalescent victim of this proletarian practice I am well aware of its ravages
on body and mind. It is the will-of-the-wisp of false whiskey followed by false hope, leading
into the fogs and bogs of the bourgeois and the quicksands of the capitalist.

"To be a moment late, means to be docked and to have it rubbed in by an insult. To take a day
off, well--death is taken as an excuse. There is no such thing in a shop as social equality
between boss and men. In my last position as foreman I had charge of three hundred men. Many
of them were faithful comrades in many a brave strike, where starvation pressed hard, whence
they had emerged with hollow cheeks and undaunted hearts. I soon came to know them all, personally,
intimately, and liked them all, though I felt most strangely drawn to those who worked for
one dollar a day. They all did their work faithfully, and there was no complaint from the front
office. One day, however, the owner charged me with treating the hands as if they were my equals.
I tried to make him see the human justification of it, but he would have none of it. He was
a typical boss and also a millionaire banker.

"It was about this time that I discovered the deepest tonic my nerves have ever known. The
explosion of the Haymarket bomb found a responsive chord, the vibrations of which will never
cease in me, I hope. The unconscious in me was at last released, and I held my mad balance
on the crater's edge and gazed into it. Hereafter, I was to live on dangerous ground, at least
in thought. No more doubt, no more shuffling now. I must try the chords of my heart, the sympathy
of my soul, in open rebellion. The iniquities of civilisation had ruined a fine barbarian in
me, and almost made of me a maudlin miscreant, willing to hang upon the skirts of a false society.
The Haymarket bomb made me strip again and for a nobler fray.

"Of what avail was it, I reflected, to raise one's voice in the wilderness of theories? How
do any good by a social enthusiasm merely expressed in theory? Such thin cerebral structures
are shattered to pieces in the ordeal of life. Ah, but this anonymous Avatar, this man with
the bomb! His instinct was right, but how far short it fell, and must always fall. He had settled
the strife within him and become definite to himself: that was all he had done. I too must
settle the strife within me. I was plunged into prolonged dreams from which I was aroused by
hunger, hunger of many kinds, and driven into my former haunt, the shop.

"But now, when I stripped for work in the factory and donned my vestments of toil, I stood
forth without falsehood. I knew, if not what I was, at least what I wanted, rather what I did
not want. I did not want this, this society!

"Each morning as I took my place in the shop I had the feeling of my boyhood--as if I were
celebrating a High Mass before the sacrifice of another day. There was much of the Pontifical
in me, for I was a rapt radical. Each morning on my way to Commercial Calvary I saw another
sacrifice; I overtook small shrivelled forms, children they were, by the dim dawn. How their
immature coughings racked my heart and gave me that strange tightening of the chest! I could
not keep my eyes from the ground whence came the sound of small telltale splashes, after each
cough. Many times I stopped to hold a child who was vomiting.

"Here was a woe too deep for tears; and I must look with dry eyes or I should fail to see.
Have you ever noticed the searching dry gaze of the poor? It is like the seeing, wistful look
of a child--which few can bear without flinching. I had no need to read Dante's imaginary 'Inferno.'
I was living in a real one which made all imagination seem trivial. 'The short and simple annals
of the poor' seems like poetry, but only superficially, for it is not truth, but a fiction.
It is false, for the annals of the aristocracy are not so long, neither are they so complex.

"I am not trying to plead for anything. I am trying merely to express. Prepared for everything,
I have forgiven everything, even myself. Everything that could happen has happened to me, perhaps
the worst that happened did not come from without, but from within. My family came off safely
enough from the fray of the factory. Only two of us were maimed for life and five claimed for
death--out of a family of eleven. That left half a dozen for the statistician to figure on."

Terry, a transcendental poet, who worked in the shop for many years, had quit it some time
before he met Marie. The above letter shows, in a general way, the mood which finally brought
about his social self-exile, so to speak. The letter which follows gives a specific instance
of the kind of experience which disgusted the idealist with the imperfect world. He had been
living against society, had foregathered with outcasts and had thrown down the gauntlet generally
to organised society, for some years, but he still from time to time worked at some job or
other. An incident happening some years after the meeting with Marie, which is still to be
described, is sufficiently typical of what finally threw him entirely out from society to be
truthfully illustrative at this point.

"I was keeping open house for all comers, regardless of law or order, morality or money. I
wished to hurl myself and my theories to the test, and gauntlet my defiance to a withered world.
It was a happy time, looked back on now as a dream, in which, however, there was an undertone
of nightmare. We had three little rooms up many mild flights of unbalustered stairs. Our main
furniture consisted of mattresses which, like morning clouds, were rolled away when the sun arose.

"For the shocking salary of six dollars a week I was collector for the Prudential Insurance
company. One rent day I lacked the necessary four dollars and a half. I telegraphed my other
ego, my dear brother Jim, in Pittsburg. The same day brought from him a telegraph money-order
for twenty-five dollars, and soon afterward a letter asking me to go to Pittsburg and help
him out. I had always been deemed an expert in the leather line, especially in locating anything
wrong in the various processes. My brother was a member of a new millionaire leather firm,
which was losing thousands of dollars every week because they were unable to locate the weakness
in the process. Jim wanted me to find the flaw.

"It was with the utmost repugnance that I quit my happy slum life, but I loved Jim, and it
was the call of the ancient clan in my blood. When I arrived in Pittsburg, without a trunk,
and with other marks of the proletarian on me, Mr. Kirkman, the millionaire tanner, showered
me with every luxury--every luxury except that of thought and true emotion. Never before did
I realise so intensely my indifference to what money can buy. My private office in the shop
was stocked with wines and imported cigarettes: but I was not so well off as in my happy slum.

"I toiled like a sleepless sisyphus, and one day, in a flash of intuition, I located and showed
the flaw in an obscure process; I was completely successful.

"I had put no price on my services. For Jim's sake, I had worked like a Trojan, physically
and mentally, for a month. With unlimited money at my disposal, I had drawn only twenty dollars
altogether, and this I sent to Marie, to keep the wolf away from the Rogues' Gallery, our flat.

"When the factory was running smoothly, I told Mr. Kirkman that I would break in a man for
my place. He made me a tempting offer to take full charge of the shop. I told him I would not
be a participant in exploiting his 'hands,' who were getting only $7 to $8 a week. Furthermore,
I said I would not stand for the discharge of any man for incompetency. I had never in the
shop met any man I could not teach and learn something from in return; I had never discharged
a man, and never would. The millionaire boss nevertheless continued to urge me to take the
position, and my brother Jim offered me two thousand dollars' worth of stock at par and a large
yearly salary. Well, I suppose, there's no use of anybody's trying to move me when Jim has failed.

"I quit Pittsburg with nothing but the price of a ticket to Chicago, though my brother told
me the firm would send me a check for $500 or $1,000 for my services as an expert. When, with
a beating heart, I returned to my dear Rogues' Gallery, all was change and dispersion. No more
happy times in our little balcony of fellowship, which had overlooked in its irresponsibility
the jarring sects and insects of this world: the most delightful place in this world to me
is a home without a boss, and this home was for the time gone. The possibility of being unfair
to Marie makes me draw a veil over the cause of the breaking-up of the Rogues' Gallery.

"Poor Jim found that the firm would not pay me a cent for my really brilliant month's work,
for the reason that I had refused to be a conventional boss and had no written or verbal contract
or agreement. Jim therefore resigned, forfeiting fifty dollars of weekly salary and twenty-five
thousand dollars in stock, ten thousand of which he had offered me to stay. Mr. Kirkman thought
all the world of Jim and could not run the shop without him. Nor could he recover from the
blow, for he loved my brother, as everybody did. Mr. Kirkman died a few weeks afterward, and
after a year or two the firm went into the hands of a receiver. All this happened because of
a few paltry dollars, which I did not ask for, for which I did not care a damn--and this is
business! I heartily rejoice, if not in Mr. Kirkman's death, at least in the dispersion of
his family and their being forced into our ranks, where there is some hope for them.

"My brother Jim was one of the maimed ones in my family. Twenty years ago, defective machinery
and a surgeon's malpractice made one arm useless. The Pittsburg affair broke up his beautiful
home. He and his whole-souled wife and charming children, into whose eyes it was an entrancing
rapture for me to look, were a family without a boss; they needed none, for they loved one
another perfectly. Jim is dead now, and the best I can do is to send you his last letter; it
has the brevity of grief:

"'I have no explanation to offer for my silence, more than a feeling which possessed me shortly
after my arrival here--a desire to be considered a dead one, and am doing all but the one thing
that will make my wish a reality. I am long tired of the game, and only continue to play because
of the hardships my taking off would cause those who at present are not able to care for themselves.
A way out of it would be to take them along, but I think if the matter were put before them,
they would decline my proffered service; and take a chance as half-orphans. You calling up
our boyhood days in "Little Hell" makes me question still further if I have any right to deny
those dear to me the delights that only the young can feel and enjoy. I made a great mistake
in coming to this Ohio town. The chase for dollars which I am performing here seven days every
week is very disgusting to me, and every day only adds to the pangs. I am out all day selling
goods, pleading for trade and collecting for former weeks' business; and in the evening I must
do the necessary office work. Every day is the same, except Sunday, when I make up the book-keeping
for the whole week and prepare statements and the like, to begin the usual round on Monday
morning. It is a hell of a life and I wish it were done. I have some consolation in being able
to call up at will those that I love. I have many a waking dream, while tramping the hills,
about the comrades that have added to the joys of my former existence. Let me hear from you
occasionally, because a letter from you seems to revive some of the old feeling that formerly
made life passable.'

       *       *       *       *       *

"I suppose I shall recover in time from Jim's death. I wish I could have been with him when
he died. During his last half-unconscious moments the nurse proposed to send for a priest.
Jim's soul must have made a last effort, for raising himself erect, he flung these words: 'I
hire no spiritual nurse,' and then asked his daughter of fourteen to bring him a volume of
Emerson and read to him. When she returned with the book, he was gone.

"Of course, the doctor and all the wise ones have diagnosed Jim's case. But I think he sized
up his case in that letter I sent you. He died of that great loneliness of soul which made
of his wasted body a battered barricade against the stupidity which finally engulphed him.
The soul of social and individual honour and commercial integrity, he had the misfortune to
find few like himself. He yearned for the ideal; and I am sure he went down with that hope
for humanity. Let us trust that there is an ever increasing number of human beings who have
Jim's malady--'seekers after something in this world, that is there in no satisfying measure,
or not at all.' If this letter seems boisterously blue, remember it is only the sullen marching
of the black sap preceding the unfurling of the emerald banners of spring, when all things
break into a 'shrill green.'"

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Terry's letter, like Marie's, I give verbatim.--H. H.

CHAPTER VII

The Meeting

The mood of rebellious idealism sometimes expresses itself in actual anti-social conduct and
life. So it was with Terry. He is the most consistent anarchist I have known, in the sense
that he more nearly rejects, practically, all social institutions and forms of conduct and
morality. He is very sweet, and very gentle, loves children and is tender to every felt relation.
There is a wistful look always in his eyes. He is tall, thin, and gaunt, his hair is turning
grey; but there is nothing of the let-down of middle age in his nature, always tense, intense;
scrupulously, deeply rebellious.

Even before his meeting with Marie, his open acts of sympathy with what is rejected by society
had put him more and more in the position of an outcast. Some of the members of his family
had become fairly successful in the ways of the world. Terry might easily have taken his place
in comfortable bourgeois society. But his temperament and his idealism led him to the disturbed
life of the radical rejector. And he was rejected, in turn, by all, even by his family.

Between him and his mother there was perhaps an uncommon bond, but even she in the end cast
him out. He wrote of her:

"She taught me that I did not belong in this world; she did not know how deeply she was right.
When she crossed my arms over my childish breast at night and bade me be prepared, she gave
me the motive of my life. She told me I would weep salt tears in this world, and they have
run into my mouth. She loved me, as I never have been loved before or since, even up to the
hour of my social crucifixion: then she basely deserted me. But I rallied, and the motive she
implanted in me remains. Though a child without any childhood, I had my reason for existence,
just the same. Everything is meaningless and transitory, except to be prepared. And I finally
became prepared for anything and everything. My life was and is a preparation--for what? For
social crucifixion, I suppose, for I belong to those baffled beings who are compelled to unfold
within because there is no place for them without. I am a remaining product of the slums, consciously
desiring to be there. I know its few heights and many depths. There have I seen unsurpassed
devotion and unbelievable atrocities, which I would not dare, even if I could, make known.
The truth, how can we stand it, or stand for it? I think a sudden revelation has wofully unbalanced
many a fine mind. Hamlet, revealing himself to Ophelia, drives distraught one of the sweetest
of souls. Fortunately we never know the whole truth, which may account for man being gregarious. And in a
minute or two he was able to declare that the injury had been done to the lady's ankle, the lady herself
having assisted him to this conclusion by coming to her senses, groaning,
and putting her hand down to the suffering joint.

The conductor frowned.

"What is the lady's name and address, please, ma'am?" he asked of Mrs. Tarbell. "I have to make a
report of the accident."

"You'll find it out soon enough," said a thin man with a fresh complexion,
very silvery hair, and spectacles.

"The company will not have to wait long for the information." He looked about with a cheerful
smile, and the conductor glared at him contemptuously.

"She never tried to get on while you were going," continued the thin man. "It was your driver;
that's what it was."

"The lady's name is Stiles, conductor," said Mrs. Tarbell,--"Stiles;
and she lives--dear me!--on Pulaski Street.

Can I do anything for you, doctor?"

"You might send your boy for a carriage," said the doctor, who was engaged in removing
Mrs. Stiles's shoe. "Nothing else, thank you, unless you happen to
have some lead-water about you." He gave a professional smile, and Mrs.
Stiles groaned dismally.

Mrs. Tarbell despatched John for the carriage, and then, turning, and
blushing in a way that was rather out of keeping with her tone of voice,
she said, "Now, I should be obliged if you gentlemen who saw the
accident would furnish me with your names and addresses."

On hearing this the crowd began to diminish rapidly; but the man with
the red moustache set a good example by giving his name loudly and
promptly as "Oscar B. Mecutchen, tobacconist, d'reckly opposite the
City Hall."

So three or four other men allowed Mrs. Tarbell to set them down as observers
of the disaster. The gentleman in spectacles was named Stethson, another
man, a tall, fat-cheeked countryman, Vickers, and a dried up little party, in
a Grand-Army-of-the-Republic suit, Parthenheimer.

Mrs. Tarbell had the names down pat, and scrutinized each prospective
witness carefully, as if warning him that it would be no use for him
to give a fictitious name in the hope of evading his duties, as she
would now be able to pick him out of a regiment.

"I am very much obliged to you," she said, in a stately manner.

"Now, you all agree that the accident was the result of the negligence
of the driver of the car?"

"Why, yes, certainly," they all agreed at once.

"Leastways--" said Mecutchen.

"That is--" said Parthenheimer.

"How was it, anyway?" asked Stethson.

"Thought you saw it," cried the others, turning on him instantly.

"So I did," said Stethson; "but I thought I'd like to hear what you
gentlemen's impression was."

"Well," said Mecutchen and Vickers, the tall man, together, tipping
back their hats with a simultaneous and precisely similar movement
on the part of each,--nothing is more indicative of the careful independence
of the average American than the way in which he always keeps his
head covered in the presence of his lawyer,--"Well," said Vickers
and Mecutchen.

Mr. Mecutchen bowed to Mr. Vickers, and Mr. Vickers bowed to Mr. Mecutchen,
with a sort of grotesque self-effacement.

Mr. Vickers waved his hand, and Mr. Mecutchen proceeded.

"Why," said he, "the lady stopped the car in the middle of the block,--just
like a woman,--got on the platform, car started with a jerk, and she
fell off."

Vickers and Parthenheimer nodded assent, but Stethson said that his
view of it was that the car started off again while she was trying
to get on.

"That makes it stronger," said Mecutchen.

"Well, of course," said Stethson, settling his spectacles farther back
on his nose; and Vickers murmured that you couldn't have it too strong,
as he knew from the point of view (as he said) of cows.

"It's wonderful what you can get for cows," he added pensively.

"Ag'in' a railroad company," said the grizzled old Parthenheimer,
"the stronger the better, because some cases, no matter how aggerawated
they are, you only git a specific sum and no damages.

But a railroad case, which is a damage case right through, the worse
they are the more you git.

I had a little niece to be killed by a freight-train, and they took off that pore little girl's head, and her
right arm, and her left leg, all three, like it was done by a mowing-machine,--so
clean cut, you know.

Well, sir, they got a werdick for six thousand dollars, my brother
and his wife did; and their lawyer stood to it that the mangling brought
in three thousand; and I think he was right about it, too."

"Six thousand!" said Vickers, with immense appreciation.

"The court set it aside for being excessive," said Parthenheimer,"
and aft'werds they compromised for less.

But there it was. And the way it was done was odd, too. Right arm
and left leg."

"Ah," said Vickers, "living right on a railroad, the way I do, you
see some queerer accidents than that.

Now, I remember--"

But Mrs. Tarbell found this conversation growing quite too ghastly to be
listened to with composure, so she turned abruptly toward the sofa.

The doctor was now bathing and examining Mrs. Stiles's ankle, and Mrs. Stiles
looked not merely the picture but the dramatic materialization of
misery.

"How do you feel now, Mrs. Stiles?

How do you think she is, doctor?" These two questions were put in Mrs.
Tarbell's sweetest tones.

Mrs. Stiles lay for a moment without answering, but the doctor replied that
he was afraid it was a nasty business.

"There is a dislocation, and there may be nothing more, except a sprain,"
he said. "But it will be impossible to tell until the swelling is reduced; and
if there is a fracture of the fibula, why, such a complication is
apt to be serious."

Mrs. Stiles groaned feebly, and then looked up at Mrs. Tarbell with
gratitude.

"I never thought to be so much trouble to you," she murmured.

"Do not think of that for a moment," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"If I only had my cologne-bottle," she said, half aloud, in an apologetic
voice.

This was one of the luxuries she had refused herself in her professional
toilet; more than this, she did not allow herself to carry a smelling-bottle,
though Mr. Juddson had told her it could be used with great effect
to disconcert an opposing counsel.

"I am afraid you are suffering very much," she went on.

"Yes, ma'am," said Mrs. Stiles sadly. "If I hadn't only been such
a fool as to try to get on that there car while it was a-going."

Mrs. Tarbell started. The doctor rose and laughed.

"You don't mean that," said he.

"Mean what, doctor?"

"That you tried to get on while the car was going. All these gentlemen here
say the car started while you were trying to get on, which is a very different
thing, you know."

The doctor had evidently kept his ears open while attending to the
sufferer.

Mrs. Tarbell, rather red in the face, kept silent, not knowing exactly
what she ought to do.

"I don't know," said Mrs. Stiles feebly.

"I don't
s'pose I remember much."

"Of course you don't," said the doctor cheerfully.

"Bless you, you'll sue the company and have a famous verdict; I wouldn't
take ten thousand dollars for your chances if I had them.

You observe," he went on confidentially to Mrs. Tarbell, "I am doing
my best for the community of interests which, ought to exist among the
learned professions.

I raise this poor woman's spirits by suggesting to her dreams of enormous
damages, and at the same time I promote litigation, to the great
advantage of her lawyer.

I think that is the true scientific spirit."

"I--I--" began Mrs. Tarbell, in some confusion.

"Beg
pardon?" said the doctor. "Well, I must be off. I've done all I can
for the poor woman.

She ought
to send for her own doctor as soon as she gets home. I suppose--will
you--?"

He looked at Mrs. Tarbell doubtfully, as if wondering whether he
ought to take it for granted that she was in charge of the case.

"I will tell her," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"I could tell her myself,"
said the doctor. "To be sure.

Well, if I could only inform her lawyer what I've done for him, he
might induce my fair patient to employ me permanently."

He smiled at his joke, shook his head waggishly, and turned to look for his hat.

As
Mrs. Tarbell looked after him in some perplexity, John, the office-boy,
came back to report that the carriage was engaged and at the door;
and Mrs. Stiles was presently carried down-stairs again, it being
quite impossible for her even to limp.

But before she was lifted up she turned her head and beckoned to Mrs.
Tarbell.

"Could I," she said,--"could I have a case against the railway company?"

"Ye-es,--I

suppose so," Mrs. Tarbell answered.

"Did they say it was the fault of the conductor that I fell off that
car?"

"Of the driver,--yes."

"Well, then, ma'am, would you advise me to bring a case against them?"

"You had better decide for yourself," said Mrs. Tarbell faintly.

But then, remembering that it was her duty to advise, she added,
"Yes, I think you ought to sue."

"Then you'll take the case, Mrs. Tarbell, won't you, please?" said
Mrs. Stiles, closing her eyes again, as if satisfied of the future.

Mrs. Tarbell! There was a general movement of surprise as the lady lawyer's
name was pronounced, and the doctor was so much taken aback that
heh burst out laughing.

"I'm sure I beg your pardon, Mrs. Tarbell," he cried. "I had no idea in the
world--"

"Ah," said Stethson, "I looked at the sign on the door coming in. I knew
it was the lady lawyer.

My, if my wife could see you, Mrs. Tarbell!"

"And I never knew who I was talking to!" grumbled Mecutchen disgustedly.

A

quarter of an hour later, when Mr. Juddson returned to his office,
Mrs. Tarbell was engaged in drawing up a paper which ran as follows:

ANNETTE
GORSLEY STILES } Court of Common vs. } Pleas.

THE BLANK AND DASH } May Term, 1883. AVENUES PASSENGER } No. ---- RAILWAY CO.
}

To the Prothonotary of the said Court:

Issue summons in case returnable the first Monday in May, 1883.

TARBELL, pro plff.

It was
a precipe for a writ.

"Alexander!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in an expressive voice, regardless of the office-boy.

"Yes?"
said Mr. Juddson.

The referee had refused to admit some of his testimony.

"Alexander, I have a client," said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Do you tell me so?" replied Mr. Juddson absently, as he redisarranged
the papers upon his table.

"I hope--Bless me, where is that--? Mrs. Tarbell, have you seen anything of an envelope?--John,
what became of the papers in Muggins and Bylow? I gave them to you."

Mrs. Tarbell, deeply mortified, resumed her occupation, and completed the precipe
by writing the words, "Tarbell, pro plff."

Mr. Juddson's papers were found for him, under his nose, and he was beginning
to say that he was going out to lunch, when the enormity of his conduct
made itself apparent to him.

"By George!"
he said, stopping short, "you told me you had a client at last, eh,
Mrs. Tarbell?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Tarbell coldly.

"Why,--bless my soul! It's
your first client, is it not? And what kind of a case has your ewe-lamb
brought you? Come, tell me about it. I did not properly appreciate
the communication." And he went over to Mrs. Tarbell's desk, upon which
he sat himself down in a position which Mrs. Tarbell had formerly
considered very undignified; but now she could not help feeling that
it was really a legal attitude.

She looked up with a smile, and then, though with a little shame,
displayed the precipe.

"Well, that's good," said Mr. Juddson. "Accident case, I suppose. What is it?
Death, and damages for the widow?--for I see there are no children,--or
was the plaintiff herself the victim of the accident?

Your sex
has finally decided to stand by you, it seems."

"I shan't send out the writ just yet," said Mrs. Tarbell, blushing.
"I was--wanted to see how the precipe would look. I must see the plaintiff
again, I think, before I advise her definitely to sue."

"Hasn't she a case?"

"Yes--but--"

"What nonsense!" cried Juddson.

"Come, my dear, don't be a goose, and don't lose a return-day.

Otherwise, I shall buy you a sewing-machine."

"Aren't you pleased, Alexander?" said Mrs. Tarbell, with a little effusion.

"My
dear, I'm delighted. I hope that in five years' time you will be
supporting me and my family. Your sister-in-law will be speechless with
jealousy. I congratulate you. Hum--The Blank and Dash Avenues Company? Well,
you won't have to send John very far with your copies of the pleadings.

Pope was appointed attorney for the company last week, in place of
old Slyther, who resigned, you know."

"Pope?" said Mrs. Tarbell.

"Yes,--the Honorable Franklin."

"Goodness!" said Mrs. Tarbell, in a tone of inexpressible disgust.

"By
jingo; you are not fond of him, are you? Hem! Well, as a general
rule, I should advise you to put personal feelings entirely out of
the question; but, as this is your first case, perhaps it would be just
as well for you to have me with you, and let me--hum--well, let me
take the jury."

"Alexander! do you think I am afraid of Mr. Pope?"

"N-no; but Pope is a blackguard, and very shady, and, it might be unpleasant
for you; and I'd do that, if I were you."

Mrs. Tarbell's spirits rose. "I will do nothing of the sort, Alexander,"
she said; "though it is very kind of you to suggest it; and I will--I
will bet you,"--determinedly,--" I will bet you a copy of the new
edition of Baxter's Digest that I beat him."

THOMAS WHARTON.

A CARCANET.

I give thee, love, a carcanet With all the rainbow splendor set, Of diamonds
that drink the sun. Of emeralds that feed upon His light as doth the evergreen,
A memory of spring between This frost of whiter pearls than snow, And
warmth of violets below A wreath of opalescent mist, Where blooms the
tender amethyst. Here, too, the captives of the mine-- The sapphire and
the ruby--shine, Rekindling each a hidden spark, Unquenched by buried
ages dark, Nor dimmed beneath the jewelled skies, Save by the sunlight
of thine eyes.

JOHN B. TABB.

IN A SALT-MINE.

There were five of us. The little New-Yorker, plump, blonde, and pretty,
I call Cecilia: that is not her name, but if she suggested any saint
it was the patron saint of music. Her soul was full of it, and it
ran off the ends of her fingers in the most enchanting manner.

Elise, half French, as
you would see at a glance, was from the Golden Gate,--as dainty and
pretty a bit of femininity as ever wore French gowns with the inimitable
American air. Elise could smile her way straight through the world.
All barriers gave way before her dimples, and with her on board ship
we never feared icebergs at sea, feeling confident they would melt
away before her glance.

Thirdly, there
was myself, and then I come to the masculine two-fifths of our party. First,
the curate. He was young in years and in his knowledge of the great
world. His parish had sent him to the Continent with us to regain his
somewhat broken health. He sometimes spoke of himself as a shepherd,
and he liked to talk of the Church as his bride: he always blushed when
he looked straight at Elise. Cecilia liked him because his clerical
coat gave tone to the party, and his dignity was sufficient for us
all, thus saving us the trouble of assuming any.

Lastly, there was Samayana, which was not his
name either, from Bombay,--a real, live East-Indian nabob. In his own country
he travelled with three tents, a dozen servants, as many horses, and always
carried his laundress with him. Yet he never seemed lonely with us,--which
we thought very agreeable in him. Crawford had just created Mr. Isaacs,
and we fancied there was a resemblance,--barring the wives,--and he told
us such graphic stories of life in India that we were not always sure
in just which quarter of the globe we were touring.

Both
Samayana and the curate were picturesque--for men.

Two
beings more opposed never came together, yet they liked each other thoroughly.
Samayana was greatly admired in European society for his color, his
gift as a raconteur, and the curious rings he wore.

He was very dusky, and Cecilia, being
very blonde, valued him as a most effective foil and adjunct. We were
seeing Germany in the most leisurely fashion, courting the unexpected
and letting things happen to us.

On the
day of which I write we spent the early morning on the Königsee, in Bavaria,
the loveliest sheet of water in Germany, vying in grandeur with any
Swiss or Italian lake.

Its color is that of the pheasant's
breast, and the green mountain-sides, almost perpendicular in places,
rise till their peaks are in the clouds and their snows are perpetual.

Stalwart, bronzed peasant girls, in the short
skirts of the Bavarian costume, rowed us about. A few years ago, in answer
to a petition, King Louis I. promised them that never in his reign should
steam supplant them. They laughed happily and looked proudly at their
muscle when we hinted at their being tired.

We landed at different points and strolled into wooded valleys, visited
artificial hermitages, stopped for a bite at a restaurant connected with
a royal hunting-château, and listened lazily to Elise's telling of the
legends of the region, accompanied by the music of some little waterfall
coming from the snow above and gleefully leaping into the lake. We crossed
the rocky, wild pasture-land lying between the Königsee and the Obersee,
that tiny lake that faithfully gives back as a mirror all the crags,
peaks, and snowy heights which hide it away there as if it were indeed
the precious opal you may fancy it to be when viewed from above.

We
drifted back to the little inn, where we were approached by a respectful
Kutscher, who asked if we would not like to go down into a salt-mine.
Whatever we did, it was with one accord, and the answer came in chorus,
"Ja, gewiss!" Elise glanced down at her dainty toilet, a look instantly
interpreted by the Kutscher, who explained that costumes for the descent
were furnished, that the exploration was not fatiguing, and that
the carriages were ready.

It was all done in an "Augenblick," the bill was paid, the Trinkgeld was
scattered, and we were rattling away through as beautiful a region as you will
find, even in Switzerland. The snow-peaks were dazzlingly white in the
sunshine; in the ravines and defiles the darkness lingers from night
to night; singing, leaping Alpine streams came like molten silver from
the glaciers over the rocky ledges and through the hanging forests, and
a swift river ran through this happy, fertile valley of peace and plenty
in which our roadway wound. The peasants looked content and well-to-do,
and were picturesquely clothed. We stopped an old man and bargained
for the quaint, antique silver buttons on his coat, and paid him twice its
weight in silver money for the big silver buckle at his belt. We were
stopped at the frontier, and accommodatingly rose while the custom-officers
politely looked under the carriage-seats. The wine we had just drunk
was not taxable, while that we were about to drink was: so we presented
our remaining bottles to the officers to save them the trouble of making change.
Up to that time we had turned our horses to the right: once over the
Austrian line, custom demanded we should turn to the left, a change
to which the Kutscher readily accommodated himself. One is kept geographically
informed in that region by this difference in manners on the high-road
in Austria and Bavaria.

We argued a little about the fittingness of women working in the fields.
Cecilia thought it preferable to washing dishes, and one of us, who
believes herself not born to sew, maintained that to rake hay was more
agreeable than sitting at sewing-machines or making shirts at twenty
cents apiece after the manner of New-York workwomen.

But
once indignation and excitement took possession of us all as we caught
sight of a bare-footed, slight young girl toiling up a ladder and
carrying mortar along a scaffold to men laying bricks on the second
story of a new building. The girl had a complexion like a rose-leaf,
her uncovered hair gleamed like gold in the sunshine, her head was
exquisitely set on her shoulders. The curate sighed deeply, Samayana
uttered a strong word in Hindoostanee, and there was a feminine cry
of "Shameful!" when the girl, putting down her load, folded her white
arms, whose sinew and muscle an athlete might have envied, and, with
teeth and smile as faultless as our Elise's, threw us down a "Gruss
Gott!" If there ever beamed content and happiness from human face
we saw it in that of this peasant beauty, who had no conception of
our commiseration. We gave her back a "God greet thee!" "All the same,"
said Cecilia indignantly, "women should not carry mortar." We had
noticed that Cecilia's indignation on account of the workingwoman
of Germany was extreme if the woman was pretty.

We came at last to
the mouth of the mine, from which issued a narrow railway for the
transportation of the salt-ore, and above, zigzag on the mountain-side,
ran the conduit carrying the salt, still in liquid form, to the boiling-house.
A waterfall four hundred feet high furnished power for the great pump.
About the entrance to the mine clustered a number of buildings. Many
carriages were already there, for it was the height of the tourists'
season, and this was the show-mine of the Salzkammergut. Some military
officers were standing about, a dozen or more natives lounged on the
piazzas, and nearly every carriage contained one or more occupants,
evidently waiting for travelling-companions then in the mine. There
was the fat woman who couldn't think of such an exploration, the nervous
woman who hated dark places and never went underground, a few invalids
and some chattering girls and young men who had previously been through
the mine and had come over from Salzburg for the drive, and some very
fine youths and young women who wouldn't be seen in a miner's costume.
There were a score or more of these travellers, and as many more coachmen,
and miners off duty, hanging about. A building on the opposite side
of the road was indicated to us ladies as the place in which we were
to change our costumes. Now, here was a pleasant gauntlet to run in
male attire! However, a hundred strangers were not to deter us, and,
possibly, this costume might be becoming. There were worse figures
in the world than ours, and who knew but this miners' dress might
show our forms to an advantage at which they had never been seen before?
Encouraged by the thought, we gave our treasures into safe keeping
and permitted the attendant to disrobe us. She spoke a dialect which
had little meaning to us, and we carried on our conversation by signs.

She
hung our habiliments on pegs, giving Elise's a little womanly caress
for their prettiness. I tried to deny to myself that this life of pleasure was
an illusion, and so I plunged into the most reckless debaucheries: I really would be ashamed
to tell you of the things I did. I had affairs with all sorts of men, many of whom I did not
know whether I liked or hated--seeking always excitement, oblivion. I frequented cafés where
the women and men of the town were to be found, and made many acquaintances. Two or three of
them proposed marriage to me. They no doubt wanted to 'save' me, and thought I was a prostitute.
I did not care to disabuse them on the subject: in fact I don't know whether I was what they
called me or not.

"This life lasted only two or three months, but it seems like so many years to me. At the end
of that time Terry's work was over, and we left down town and roomed with a respectable radical
family. My health had broken down. I weighed only a hundred pounds, although three months earlier
I had weighed one hundred and forty. My beautiful, healthy body had wasted away. Ah! how proud
I used to be of this body of mine! how I used to glory in the vigorous, shapely limbs, the
well-moulded breasts and throat. But all this passed away before my youth had passed away."

Marie here pathetically omits to state the immediate cause of her ill health--a long and terrible
experience in the hospital, the result of her excesses, during which time Terry was the only
one to care for her, from which place she came broken in health, thin and pale, with large,
dark, sad eyes, looking as she did when I first met her.

CHAPTER VIII

The Rogues' Gallery

"My terrible experiences during these months," continued Marie, "had at least the advantage
of bringing me nearer to him who was and is the inspirer of whatever is worthy or good in me.
It helped me to appreciate him, and surely everything I suffered, everything I may still suffer,
is not too much to pay for that. He has made for me an ideal, and, without that, life is but
a sorry, sorry thing. During those wild months I, of course, thought little of those things,
those wonderful new things which I had heard of from him, but now, when we were living quietly
with our anarchist friends, and the surroundings were in harmony with the mood for thought,
my interest awakened. I read a great deal and listened attentively to the talk of the people
around me, and slowly my ideas became more and more clear.

"It took a long time for me to learn, to really understand what the others were interested
in. I did not dare to ask Terry too many questions, especially there, where everybody admired
him and looked up to him so. A new shyness came over me when I began to see him in the light
of a philosopher and a poet. He seemed so far above me and I felt myself so small and unworthy.
But it was not long before I really began to feel a strong interest in all that was said, in
all these social theories, in these ideas about the proletaire, about art and literature; and
I began to read books in a far different spirit from what I used--I began to see in them truth
about life, and to love this truth, whatever it was. And I loved the freedom of the talk, and,
above all, I loved the feeling that from the highest point of view I was not an outcast, and
that the people who seemed to me the best did not so regard me. It helped to give me the self-respect
which every human being needs, I think.

"I thought for a long time that I was very lucky indeed to get admitted into this atmosphere.
And, indeed, I know I was lucky, but there came a time when, for a while, I was very unhappy,
not in the society of the radicals--I always loved that--but among these particular people,
because they could not, after all, rid themselves of some conservative prejudices. After a
while I began to see that even those enlightened people really had contempt for what I had
been, or for my ignorance, perhaps for both.

"This family, with whom we were staying, was supposed to have broad and liberal ideas, and
its members prided themselves on the fact that they really put their theories into practice.
Their home was run on a sort of communistic basis, and the men and women who lived there were
not tied to each other by any legal bonds, for they believed in freedom of love. They never
made much noise about their ideas, or rather their practice, and were what you might call refined
or cultured anarchists.

"Terry and I had nothing in a worldly way, and we lived there on 'charity,' so to speak, though
that word was, of course, never used. We did, however, what work there was to be done in the
household, trying in this way to give some compensation in return for a bed to sleep on and
the simple food necessary to keep our bodies alive.

"Now, after a while, I began to feel crushed, oppressed in this home, among these cold, cold,
refined people, although they were anarchists. They could not help showing me their contempt:
they made me feel inferior. They never said one word that indicated such a feeling, but I could
feel it by their attitude, by the attitude even of the little child in the house. They looked
upon me much in the same way as my former mistress used, when I was the servant in the house,
except that they were bound by their theories to give me a nominal respect and to try charitably
to improve my mind and make of me a philosophical anarchist.

"It was painful to me to see these people, who were so humane, who could not bear to see the
lowly oppressed, who could not bear to have injustice done, to see these people pass me by
in insulting silence, look at me with cold, unsympathetic eyes! How it hurt me, not to receive
the word of encouragement from the kind look of people I looked up to! So I crawled into my
shell and did not go about much with the others. I think I was forgotten by nearly everybody
for days at a time. Terry shared the room with me, and brought me food, as I grew more and
more unable to eat with the cold superior ones. He brought me tobacco, too, and here it was,
sitting all day alone, that I began the cigarette habit: if it had not been for that, I think
I should have gone mad.

"I never ceased to love Terry, but I had a bitter feeling against him, too. He was always kind
and good to me, but he spent most of his time with his intellectual friends, and I began to
feel that even he was being 'charitable' to me. So after much misery and despair, I accepted
a proposal of marriage from a friend of my wild days and fled with him to St. Louis. He took
me to the home of his sisters and parents, where I lived in peace and quiet for three weeks,
recovered some of my health and strength, and was able to review my past and think of my future;
and reflect on my coming marriage.

"The people I was with now were kind and sympathetic. They did not know about my past life--only
my prospective husband knew--he, of course, knew all. The others thought I was a poor shop-girl,
tired and overworked. They were refined people, fairly well-to-do, rather bourgeois, but with
good hearts, and so innocent that they believed everything their son told them, and received
me as a daughter and sister.

"Perhaps my nature is perverse, I don't know; but as soon as I got a little rest and peace,
I began to think of what I had left and especially of Terry. It was not only my love for him
that called, but what my life with him had been and would be if I returned--a life that was
not a commonplace life, a life of intelligence and freedom. Already I was bored by the quiet
goodness of the people I was with, and I wanted 'something doing'!

"I saw Terry again as I had seen him first, with the glamour of ardent love, the love that
overleaps all barriers and, if only for an instant, stands face to face with love, unhesitating,
tumultuous, and triumphant. The memory of even one perfect moment can never leave us, even
if life be ever so dark and harsh and bitter, there will always be that single ray of light
to illumine the darkness, and keep our steps from utter and complete stumbling.

"I thought of Terry day and night, and grew so melancholy that my new found friends were alarmed
and suggested hastening the marriage, in order to let me go South with my husband. This alarmed
me terribly and I begged that no such step should be taken. With much inward trembling, I proposed
that the marriage should be postponed and that I return to Chicago. They would not listen to
this, and I could see in their honest faces the deepest amazement and a kind of suspicion.
So I took refuge in tears, pleading ill-health and offering no more suggestions.

"That same day I wrote Terry a long letter, in which I told him that I still loved him, could
not forget him, but had taken this step in desperation because I could no longer endure living
among these people in Chicago, his friends, but not mine; that here in St. Louis I had found
a certain measure of peace and quiet which had lately been disturbed by the realisation that
soon I must decide to take a step which would perhaps separate us two irrevocably, that I longed
more than words could tell to see him, to look into his face. I could never go back, I wrote,
to that life I had been living, because what I had learned from him of what life is and what
makes it worth living, had made that thing impossible for me. So, I wrote, I could not go back,
and how, without him, could I go forward? So here I was, weak, perplexed, and I begged him
to write me, to advise me what to do.

"Very soon his reply came--the truest, kindest reply that I could have received. He too had
suffered since I left him, and comprehended only too well why I had done as I did. Our suffering
would help us to gain a more comprehensive knowledge of life and of each other. And if I still
loved him, I should follow the inclination of my heart and return to him. We two might start
out again, wiser and surer for what had passed. He assured me of his love, but warned me not
to expect too much from him, that our material comforts would be few, for he was as poor as
I, and however much he might wish to provide better, he knew that, for one reason or another,
he could not. But if I would be content to share his crust and his love, much happiness and
joy might be in store for us. He finished his letter with a quotation from Browning's 'Lost
Leader':

    'Just for a handful of silver he left us,
     Just for a ribbon to tie in his coat.'

"My hesitation disappeared at once, although it hurt me greatly to carry out my resolution
to return to Chicago. It cost me many a pang to shock and hurt the dear good people, to seem
so ungrateful for all their love and kindness. But it had to be. I could not do otherwise.
I returned to Chicago two days after receiving the letter, and my lover and I met and clasped
hands and gazed into one another's eyes. We were reunited, or rather united truly, for the
first time, with better understanding on both sides.

"Since that day, now six years ago, we have travelled the rough road together, assisting one
another as best we could, often stumbling and misunderstanding and hurting one another, for
we continually tried to get deeper and deeper into real knowledge, real life, and it is hard
to reconcile all things. Generally to gain much, one must compromise, but Terry and I did not
wish to compromise. His and mine has been a difficult and dangerous relation, but an interesting
one. Very soon after my return to Chicago, I felt much more at ease, no longer a stumbling-block
in his way; and I gained confidence, strength, and knowledge. I met many people of the true
communistic spirit, and by social intercourse with them developed in every way. I continued
to read good books and attended lectures on the social problems of the day. So after a time
I became what is called an anarchist, just as Terry was.

"The reasons my books and companions brought forward for the justification of anarchism were
like meat and drink to me. I was filled with enthusiasm for the ideas of a freedom which I
now think is perhaps impossible in our society. But I thought that the 'downtrodden,' the 'working
classes,' held the fate of the world in their hands, if they could but realise it. As time
passed, my enthusiasm waned, for I began to see many difficulties in the way of this beautiful
idealism. At times, I even doubted if the 'mob' were worthy of liberty at all. Such thoughts,
however, passed away whenever I saw the crowds of workers streaming from the factories and
stores, and looked upon their loutish, brutal faces, wherein there was never a gleam of pride,
of the joy of creation, of intelligent effort. Then I would think, surely, surely, humankind
is not meant to be thus. Why, even the little birds, the tiny little ants, what intelligence
they display in their work; little kittens and dogs playing in the streets, what unrestrained
joy is theirs! Work ought to be a pleasure and a blessing: and it would be so if we could only
choose our labour, if we could create, do those things for which we are fitted, voluntarily,
because of the need within us, for the outward expression of our life, our hope and joy. So,
work would cease to be the curse it is to-day.

"And surely if we were free men and women, we would find our place in the scheme of things,
surely each one of us would seek the place suited to his individual nature, and so perhaps
at last everything would be a part of the harmonious whole.

"When I think of things as they are and as they might be, I grow dizzy and sick at heart, that
mankind can be so blind, so hopelessly ignorant, so unspeakably cruel, so weak and cowardly.
I am only a novice, I know, and there is so much for me to know, to learn, to strive for--much
that I, and hundreds and thousands of others, will never reach, for we are burdened with heavy
chains which we cannot break. Yet, there must be somewhere on this big earth, some little place
fitted for me, some small corner where I must be of some value to myself.

"To you, no doubt, my sufferings and struggles will seem petty and my ideas crude and commonplace;
but, if so, the pity is all the greater. After the agony I went through, freedom seemed to
me the noblest thing in the world, and I thought it the solution of everything. Since then
my ideas, perhaps, have become somewhat less 'crude,' but I have never for a moment lost faith
in the thought that freedom is the most essential, the most necessary condition for us, if
we are to endure life."

It is certainly what Marie calls "crude" to talk of liberty without careful definition. Absolute
freedom is inconceivable. But I am not interested in presenting an argument: I am interested
in the description of a state of mind, of a section of society, of a certain emotional view
of things. The value, however, of these general ideas is undoubted, in the spiritual improvement
and moral comfort of thousands of people. I think that Marie and Terry and the other characters
that will appear in this book are decidedly better off for the ideas they hold: that about
these ideas, or rather ideals, perhaps, they have grouped a society in which they are not outcasts,
in which their lives seem from some points of view justified. And even in my opinion, though
I live in different circumstances, and see greater difficulties in the way of the realisation
of any social ideal than they do, yet I feel that their way of looking at things is useful
to the larger society of men, ultimately. And, I, like other people, have deep respect for
a consistent and courageous life, based upon a principle or principles which I may not hold myself.

The next scene in the life of Marie and Terry took place in what they called "The Rogues' Gallery."
This was during the time that Terry held a position in the Prudential Insurance Company, whose
employ he left, as we have seen, in order to go to Pittsburg, to find the flaw in the tannery
process, at his brother Jim's request. He hired three little rooms, and up to the time he went
to Pittsburg, he welcomed to his home everybody who was "against" things. Later on, he became
more particular in his associates--that is to say, he demanded of them something more than
mere disreputability, to use the conventional word. But at that time he loved everything that
the world hated or cast out. That was his principle of action, his norm of judgment. Seeking
the truth with undivided passion, he rid himself at a later time, at least partially, of this
prejudice, and became quite able to "pass up," as he calls it, that is reject, a human being
even though he might be a thief, a practical anarchist, a prostitute, or a souteneur. But at
the time of the existence of the Rogues' Gallery he loved everything rejected by society, without
making too nice a use of his natural taste.

There, in those three little slum rooms, gathered a strange society--a society held together
on the basis of its utter rejection of the larger society of men. To be an acceptable member
of this society, the individual must in some way be a social rebel--either practically or theoretically,
or both. When Terry saw in some being rejected by society a spark of thought or of feeling,
he was excited and happy. It was obvious to him, as to all persons who think and have practical
contact with many different kinds of people, that there are in life no heroes and no villains;
it was obvious that in the lowest thief or prostitute there was that possibility of light and
spiritual grace which all true souls desire. Terry's function was to make them conscious of
this; to organise, so to speak, the outcasts upon a philosophic and æsthetic basis and so save
them to themselves, at least.

This was his great experiment with Marie, about which a large part of this book is to be concerned.
But this interest, this effort, extended itself to many other individuals, and whenever Terry
could feel himself in contact with what he felt was essentially human, and, at the same time,
to his sense beautiful, he was filled, as I have said, with that deep excitement of pleasure,
which was both intellectual and moral. I remember, one day, he said to me: "How often, during
the lifetime of the Rogues' Gallery, did I saunter down State Street with the pleasing knowledge
that I would find some 'low' person, girl or man, whom I knew I could get at, who would strip
himself or herself bare to me in a spiritual sense, and would be revealed disinterestedly,
would have no axe to grind and no contemptible small ends to gain, and no tradesman's commercial
morality and no grafting conventionality, no moral cant based on self-interest--some being
so near the 'limit' that he was intellectually and morally fearless and did not need to pose,
from whom some truth could be derived, whose sincerity and power of straight-seeing was not
warped and concealed by any bourgeois ambitions, by any respectability."

From time to time Terry would take one of these beings home with him--to his Rogues' Gallery
and to Marie and to the other intimates, mainly more or less self-conscious anarchists, all
or nearly all derelicts of the labouring class. There they could stay as long as they æsthetically
fitted, could share the communal cigarette, beds, beer, and food. And Terry and Marie and their
friends would talk and read aloud--Terry the teacher, giving transcendental light into the
nature of the good, the beautiful, and the true. Many an outcast here came first to a pleasing
sense that from some points of view he was not altogether bad, nay, that he had unexpectedly
good points. Many of them to some philosophic intensity; conversation became a joy, strangely
unknown hitherto. The educational character of this meeting place was marked, but, as I have
said, Terry's indiscriminating passion for the outcasts of the proletaire limited the intellectual
development of his little society. At a later time, a much more developed society grew around
Terry and Marie, as we shall see, when we get to the Anarchist salon, or the intellectual drawing
room of the Anarchist Proletaire.

Terry's main effort was, at this time, and for years afterwards, naturally directed toward
Marie's spiritual education. Hitherto Marie has revealed herself to the reader as a rather
commonplace, very physical, rather lazy, and quite egoistic person, one of many, with no distinguished
characteristics. But she was unusually endowed in some ways. Eminently plastic, up to a certain
point she rapidly assumed forms suggested by Terry's spiritual touch. She derived from him
her interest in all high things, in philosophy, art and literature, but there always remained
an interesting distinction in the way she reacted to her education. Terry remained always the
rather transcendental philosopher, with a predominant ethical sense. Marie, as she developed,
showed a deeper and subtler feeling for expression and a surer sensing of human character,
a juster psychology. Her nature is essentially less beautiful, by far, than that of Terry,
but more real, in a way, more robust, and so constituted that in a long spiritual conflict
she would wear out the finer qualities of her lover. But this is anticipating, except in so
far as it is true that from the start Marie's psychological vividness showed itself, often,
of course, with base and physical concomitants. In this connection I will quote a letter which
well illustrates this side of her character, and which also shows a contrast to some of her
loftier but more conventional and less true qualities. She had been attending an anarchists'
ball and she wrote:

"I danced a great deal and felt very happy, without the aid of any stimulant either. I did
not have any feeling of irritation or even indifference toward anybody, not even toward Rose.
I am fascinated by Rose, and I sometimes think I hate her. I always like to be near her when
there is no one else around. She reveals herself to me then; in fact quite throws off the mask
which all women wear. In order to encourage her to do this, I apparently throw down my own
mask. Oh, how I gloat over her then, when she shows me a side of her life and betrays secret
thoughts and feelings to me half unconsciously! Sometimes I succeed in having her do this when
there is a third person present, and the look of hatred which passes across her face when she
perceives she has made a mistake, is a most interesting thing to see. But she immediately comes
to my side and we kiss each other and call each other 'angel girls' and 'darlings.' Thus we
play with each other, and it is a stand-off which is cleverest. She is quite puzzled sometimes
by my frankness about some things, for instance, about her looks. I notice she compliments
me on my looks whenever I am decidedly off colour, when I wear a green ribbon, or a dowdy dress,
or big shoes. But I am honest with her in these things, and I like to see her look well. The
game is more interesting then.

"Well, at this ball, I wanted to dance with a certain man, but I did not wish to ask him myself.
So I requested Rose to do so, and she consented, and I was soon whirling around in his arms.
I had felt curious about him for a long time: I did not know just what the state of my feeling
toward him was. I did not know whether I liked or disliked him, but I had often experienced
a sort of thrilling sensation when he happened to pass by or touch me, or even when he mentioned
my name, which had occurred only once since I knew him. 'Good evening, Marie,' was all he said.
But the name and the way he said it seemed new, and it kept recurring to me at unexpected times
and always troubled me. When I fancy I hear that name in his voice I feel sad and lonely, and
my heart aches. I see him often, mostly at our Sunday evening lectures. We are very distant,
and I am often rude to him, not answering when he speaks to me.

"So when I danced with him the other night, I was agreeably surprised to find that I did not
experience any unusual sensation at all. And I was relieved, too, for I had a sort of instinctive
feeling that he was not worthy of any strong interest. After the dance was over, we went down-stairs
together and he kissed me. You know, the radicals all kiss one another freely and it does not
mean anything special, as a rule: often it is done without any feeling at all, just a common
habit. But this time I was astonished to find that the moment he touched me I had the same
thrilling sensation, only more intense, as when I heard him speak my name. I resisted however,
and just then I heard Rose's voice ring out exultantly, 'Oh, if you knew how crazy Marie is
about you, how she raved when she first met you and so on.' You can imagine how I felt then.
I managed to get away and drank and smoked and danced all the evening and never looked at him
again. When we all went away Rose and I kissed each other and called each other 'darling girl.'

"In some moods I would like to be a big, beautiful, heartless woman like one or two I know.
In such moods, how I would make men suffer! I was talking about this to little Sadie the other
day, and she assured me solemnly that she would do that when she was thirty, but not merely
to make men suffer, but to develop them."

As Terry continued to read aloud and talk in his Rogues' Gallery, Marie grew to reflect more
and more the results of the reading of good things, and of the thinking and talking about these
things. It shows how some temperaments are able to connect literature and philosophy with life,
and thereby see their real meaning, quite independently of any merely conventional culture
or education. One of the greatest prejudices of our time (and of all times) is the belief that
intellectual culture, which is merely the perception in detail of how life and thought is expressed
in form, is peculiarly dependent upon academic or conventional education. And yet, of course,
somewhere or other, the nature capable of understanding form must come in contact with it,
before the meaning of the whole thing is incorporated into its daily habit. Terry was Marie's
point of contact with form, in its deep relation to life. Marie felt this and loved him and
was grateful, to the depths of her nature, so different from his, so animal, so unideal, in
comparison! She wrote:

"Terry gave me a new way to express myself, and that, after all, is the only thing worth living
for. And he gave me this new way without trying to make me give up any other way of self expression,
my sensuality, for example. This sensuality I have sometimes regretted, but not directly through
Terry's influence, except that he has shown me the beauty of something else. He is a winged
thing in comparison with me, but he is so wonderfully tolerant that he can see beauty in even
the baser part of my nature. Why should I regret what I am, anyway? I believe that the only
purity that means anything is that which results from working one's nature out harmoniously,
not suppressing it. Terry must be a wonderful man, to have been able to encourage me in many
new directions, and to take away the maiming sting of regret for what I inevitably was and
could not help being.

"I do not think an ordinary person could have made me see the beauty of anarchism. I know that
the anarchistic ideas are rather shocking, even at their best, and of course they naturally
appeal most to the man with the hoe, inciting him to rebel, while the man behind the idea is
usually endowed with so much sensitiveness that he shrinks from the rebellion part of the programme
himself; he is not a man of action, only a man of ideas. It is shameful, some think, to disturb
the blissful ignorance of the man with the hoe, for when the gleam of intelligence shines in
his eye and he is aroused to the knowledge of his degrading position, he is likely to rebel
in the most healthy but brutal manner, so much so that the æsthetic reformer shrinks back from
the consequences of the propagation of his own ideas. Of course, the brutality of the proletariat
is not nearly so subtle as that of the aristocracy, and it takes some cleverness to discover
that the latter is brutality at all. It requires time and patience to drive into the thick
heads of the workers that they are downtrodden, and that their oppressors are worthless parasites.
When they finally do awaken to this idea and rebel, how terribly shocked the world is because
these brutes have not the cleverness or delicacy to be more subtle in their brutalities.

"In your last letter you wrote of the crudeness of most propagandists of anarchism, naming
Anatole France as one of the rare anarchists who express themselves otherwise than crudely.
He rarely or never, you say, ever mentions the word 'anarchism,' although much of his writing
is calculated to destroy belief in the value of organised society as it now exists. Don't you
think you are perhaps prejudiced too much against certain words because of their associations?
I know that many words are objectionable to refined, cultured people because they have been
so long associated with the coarse and brutal mob, the working class, as the socialists would
say. But you must remember that anarchism is intended to appeal to this 'mob' especially; that
its doctrines might not be needed by refined people who ought to have enough sensibility not
to enjoy 'freedom' unless it is shared by the coarse and brutal workers. Believe me, there
is nothing so degrading as poverty. It makes the slave more slavish and the brute more brutal.
It acts like a goad, spurring people on to do things which make them seem to themselves and
others lower and lower, until they are truly no longer human beings but animals.

"Therefore it is that the propaganda of anarchism is generally crude. It is true that much
good literature is permeated with the ideals of anarchism, for instance, Shelley, Whitman,
Thoreau, and Emerson. Such reading is excellent as a means of humanising and making anarchists
of refined people, but how could you appeal to the rebellious workers with such books as these?
For instance, my father, do you think he could read Ibsen or any of the others? Indeed not;
but let him go to a meeting where he can hear Emma Goldman speak, or let him read Jean Grave,
or Bakunin, or some other writer of 'crude' pamphlets, and he might become interested, he might
be able to understand. But since it seems that truly refined people cannot enjoy the pleasures
of freedom without being, at any rate at times, worried because of the condition of the 'mass,'
what is to be done? This objectionable crudity must remain until there is a demand for something
more subtle on the part of the workers for whom is intended all propaganda. The rich and cultured
presumably have brains which they can use to solve the problems for themselves or to digest
the things written by Anatole France and others. But how do you suppose that I, for instance,
could a few years ago have relished Anatole France? Wouldn't you think it idiotic for anyone
to have given me such books, at that time, with any expectation of my appreciating their refined
and evanescent anarchism?"

It must have been a strange sight that of Terry sitting on his dilapidated bed in the Rogues'
Gallery, with his eternal cigarette in his mouth, talking to Marie and perhaps to some prostitute
or pickpocket! We begin already to see the result on Marie's education: that will appear complex
and manifold, but it is likely that on many a half-formed creature who afterward passed out
of Terry's life, his words yet made an impression which perhaps in some later darkness revived
an idea which explained and justified his miserable existence.

CHAPTER IX

The Salon

The Rogues' Gallery went the way of all good things: it ceased to exist when the creative spirit
was gone. Terry went to Pittsburg, as we have seen, to find the flaw in the tanning process,
and while he was away Marie attempted to conduct the academy of anarchism. But she was too
much interested in what is called "life" to make a sustained mental or moral effort without
the inspiring presence of a man whose central passionate ideas never changed. The personal
jealousies which Terry's philosophic attitude and idealism tended to dissipate became, during
his absence, too strong for the bond uniting the "rogues," and when Terry returned he found
that his little colony had dispersed and that Marie, unable any longer to pay the rent, was
living with her old friend Katie.

This was, to our idealist, a deep disappointment. On the heels of his final break in Pittsburg
with society came this sign of woman's weakness. Terry might easily have expected it, but one
of the limitations of an idealist is an insufficient knowledge of realities. To men of his
temperament there is always a distinct shock envolved in coming face to face with an actuality.
Truth is the element of the idealist, but an abstract truth into which concrete realities seldom
fit. Terry did not, or tried not to, mind, at this time, this continued sexual freedom, or
rather vagaries, of Marie's life; for that fitted into his scheme of personal freedom: he zealously
strove to respect the private inclinations of every human being. But the least sign, in any
of his acquaintances, of a compromise with the integrity of the soul, of any essential weakness,
met with no tolerance from him. "He passed him up," on the spot, with a scornful wafture of
his hand. That Marie had yielded to the stress of circumstances, had been unable to hold out
in the Rogues' Gallery, galled the relatively uncompromising, exigent idealist. If she had
resorted to temporary prostitution to hold the society together he would have admired her.
But, instead, she weakly sought, like any merely conservative woman, the shelter of Katie's
roof. The first seed of the essential discord which finally resulted, at a much later time,
in their relations was planted thus in this deep irritation of Terry's soul; it did not, however,
affect seriously his love for Marie as a person or his interest in her as a social experiment.
But it tended to make him feel more lonely and to render him more hopeless of any realisation
of the ideal, as he saw it.

When Terry returned, without a job, and with no intention of trying for one, and found Marie
living with Katie, he had a long talk with the two women. Katie was still with her husband,
Nick, but she was willing to quit him in order to live with and take care of, her darling Marie.
She proposed to Marie and Terry to hire some rooms and all live together. She would work as
cook in a restaurant and thus support the three of them.

To this eager desire of Katie's Terry refused to consent; but he also refused to work. What
was to be done? He was too proud willingly to live on Katie, and he was principled against
labour. Katie wanted the luxury of her proposed arrangement. She quarrelled with Terry, but
he interested her. Already she began to look on these two as her superior cultivated ones,
aristocrats, with whom it was a joy to live and for whom it was a pleasure to work. To work
for them, especially for Marie, she would drop her old Nick, good dull man, in a moment.

An event which happened just at the right moment to decide things, finally brought about the
union of the three. One night Terry was drinking in a saloon, talking philosophy, and quoting
literature. Some rapid lines from Swinburne had just left his lips when an elderly man, who
had been listening to Terry's talk approached him and said: "You are the man I'm looking for,
won't you have a drink?"

As he spoke, he flashed a fifty dollar bill over the bar and repeatedly treated the crowd,
all in Terry's honour.

"Before we separated that night," said Terry, telling me the story, "I learned that the old
guy had fifty thousand dollars and that he would soon go down and out, for he had all sorts
of bad diseases. He knew it himself, but he was an old sport and he wanted his fling before
he died. He liked me and wanted me to be bar-tender in a saloon he owned. He lived above the
saloon and wanted a housekeeper to take care of the rooms. So I told Kate here was her chance.
The next day Marie, Katie, and I moved into the rooms, where the old man lived, too, and I
began my work as a bar-tender.

"I did not regard this job as work: it was really graft, for I had decided that my old friend,
not long for this world, did not need all of his money and that I might as well turn part of
it toward Katie, to help maintain a common house for us all. So, every night, after the day's
work, I turned the roll that I received behind the bar over to Katie, who tucked it away in
the bank. I don't know whether the old guy knew about it or not, if he did, he did not care.
He died after two or three months, but Katie had increased her bank account by three or four
hundred dollars."

Terry is strenuous about this story. He is evidently anxious lest it be thought that he later
became a mere parasite on Katie. He prides himself on having taught her to steal from an unkind
world, but he does not like the idea that she has slaved for him without any help in return.
Katie did not prove to be a good pupil. She was not naturally "wise," in the slang sense, but
gained what she gained by hard labour. Even while she was housekeeper for the old guy she felt
she earned all the money she tucked away.

"I worked hard for the old man," she said, "and I only got about one hundred and thirty dollars
for all my work. I thought I made that much."

There is a slight difference in the amount received, in Terry's account and in Katie's, but
it is clear that it was not very much. It is interesting and characteristic that Terry wants
it to appear to have been "graft," while Katie looks upon the money as honest wages, received
in an unconventional way.

Nick was definitely deserted, and the new "salon" formed, with Terry and Marie as the bright
particular stars and Katie as the happy means of living, if not in luxury at least in independence.
They lived on her eight or nine dollars a week with the comfortable feeling that there were
several hundred dollars tucked away in the bank, the result of Katie's savings and Terry's ideas.

The salon was of a more select and higher order intellectually than had been the Rogues' Gallery.
The people who frequented the three little slummy rooms on the West Side where Terry, Marie,
and Katie lived were mainly anarchists in theory, and occasionally one or another of them was
so in practice. They mainly consisted of rebellious labourers who had educated themselves in
the philosophy of anarchism.[2] They had ideas about politics and government and the relation
between the sexes. They were indeed all "free lovers," and quite naturally so; the rebellious
temperament instinctively takes as its object of attack the strongest convention in society.
Anarchism in Europe is mainly political; in America it is mainly sexual; for the reason that
there is less freedom of expression about sex in America than in Europe: so there is a stronger
protest here against the conventions in this field--as the yoke is more severely felt. While
I was in Italy and France I met a number of anarchists who on the sex side were not ostentatiously
rebellious. They were like the free sort of conservative people everywhere. But in political
ideas they were more logical, sophisticated, and deeply revolutionary than is the case with
the American anarchists, who, on the other hand both in their lives and their opinions, are
extreme rebels against sex conventions. It is only another instance of how unreason in one
extreme tends to bring about unreason in the other. Our prudishness, hypocrisy and stupid conventionality
in all sex matters is responsible for the unbalanced license of many a protesting spirit.

So there was many an "orgie" in the salon--sexual and alcoholic: and many wild words were spoken
and many wild things done. But these same extreme people were gentle and sensitive, too, and
emotionally interested in ideas. They went to lectures on all sorts of social subjects, they
read good books of literature and crude books on politics, they grouped together and enjoyed
to a certain extent their communistic ideas. They published their anarchistic newspapers and
they welcomed into their ranks people who otherwise could have attained to no consolatory philosophy--who
would have had no society and no hope. And they did not do it for the sake of charity--hollow
word!--but from a feeling of fellowship and love. You, reader, who may think ill of thieves
and prostitutes--too ill of them, perhaps: if you can come to see that social differences are
of slight value in comparison with the great primal things and the universal qualities of human
nature, you will perhaps be better if not more "virtuous" than before, and may be kinder, less
self-righteous, and do far more good, no matter how "charitable" you are now inclined to be.
You have never been able to arouse the real interest of the proletariat, for the simple reason
that you have never been really interested in them. But you do arouse their hatred and their
contempt. They ought not, of course, to hate and despise anything, especially anything that
means as well as you do. But they, though they are anarchists, are human, all too human, sometimes,
like the rest of us. Here are some of the ideas of the salon about you, about us, let me say,
as voiced by Terry and Marie. To begin with, Terry: about our "culture" he writes:

"There is not much doubt about the sapping influence of culture. It seems that narrowness of
range means intensity of emotion. This is seen in the savage, the child, and uncultivated men
as well as other animals. I might even go farther and say we see it in such titans as Balzac
and Wagner, who seek to compress all the arts into their own particular art. The mind that
finds many outlets generally overflows in dissipation of energy instead of digging a deep single
channel of its own. And yet to focus our feelings to one point may be a dangerous accomplishment.
For instance, the fulminating fire of Swinburne's radium rhymes, while harmless to himself,
may become dangerous through me or some other 'conductor.' Unfortunately, the inability to
foretell the ultimate effect of any given idea produces that form of inhibition called conservatism,
and to this vice people of so-called culture are especially prone. It takes recklessness to
be a social experimentalist or really to get in touch with humanity. Our careful humanitarians,
our charitable ones, never do, for they stick to their conservatism. How we do fashion our
own fetters, from chains to corsets, and from gods to governments. Oh, how I wish I were a
fine lean satirist!--with a great black-snake whip of sarcasm to scourge the smug and genial
ones, the self-righteous, charitable, and respectable ones! How I would lay the lash on corpulent
content and fat faith with folds in its belly; chin and hands[3]; those who try to beat their
breast-bone through layers of fat! Oh, this rotund reverence of morality! 'Meagre minds,' mutters
George Moore, and my gorge rises in stuttering rage to get action on them. Verily such morality
as your ordinary conservative person professes has an organic basis: it has its seat in those
vestiges of muscles that would still wag our abortive tails, and often do wag our abortive tongues.

"To arouse such fat ones to any onward flight it may take the tremendous impact of a revolution.
It may take many upheavals of the seismic soul of man before the hobgoblins of authority are
finally laid in the valley.

"How many free spirits have been caught and hampered in the quagmire of conservatism. Yet they
have the homing instinct of all winged things: they return to the soul and seek to throw off
the fat and heavy flesh of social stupidity. Many great free spirits there have been who possess
this orientation of the race and have brought us tidings of the promised land. How many thundering
spirits have commanded us to march by the tongued and livid lightning of their prophetic souls,
but how few of us have done so! Why, to me, this world is a halting hell of hitching-posts
and of truculent troughs for belching swineherds. The universe has no goal that we know of
unless Eternity be the aim; let us then have the modesty of the Cosmos, and no other modesty,
and be content to know our course, and be sure to run it.

"I have tried for freedom, indeed, everywhere, but I find the 'good ones' always in my way.
How well I know the cost of my attempt! My heavy heart and my parched and choking throat, they
know! I may indeed beat my breast alone in the darkness in a silent prayer for freedom and
hear no response from the haunting hollows of the night. Such hungry freedom I had and have;
and I could share it only with the outcasts of the world: the fat and rotund charitable ones
would none of it. This freedom is possessed only by him who is afflicted over much with himself
because he has been crazed by others and made mad by his escape from them. I suppose I am mad,
for to believe myself perfectly sane in a greatly mad world is surely a subtle species of lunacy.
And yet I am compelled to act towards others as if they were more sane than I. To feel as if
one were eternally in a court-room trial, with lean lunatics for lawyers and fat philistines
for judges, this is life.

"I am only one of the human victims who studies his own malady because he likes universal history.
The world has thrown me back upon myself and made me at times what is called mad. After being
down-hearted for some time, I grow superstitious and imagine that some strange and fatal spell
is hanging over us all. Even my own acts and thoughts take on the futility of nightmare, and
Nirvana is very welcome, if I could be sure of it, but I had rather stay what I am than start
life all over again in some other shape, with a possible creeping recollection of my former
existence. I have at times startled intimations that I lived in vain in some former unhappy
time; so I shall try to postpone the eternal recurrence as best I may."

Thus Terry tries not only to reject the laws of "fat" society, but at times he strives against
what he imagines to be the deep laws of the universe: he tries to stem the tide of fate, and
this in the name of Truth! It shows how far remote from reality is the truth of the idealist;
and yet such an attitude is often forced upon a sensitive spirit by rough contact with imperfect
society. Although Terry is the most perfect specimen of the anarchists I have known, yet they
all have more or less the quality of idealism so marked in him.

Marie's letters teem with the spirit of revolt, which of course was the atmosphere of the salon.
With her it is always less ideal, more personal, more egotistic than with Terry. In one of
her letters she told "how she was led to try to get a job again, in order to buy some pretty
things." A few days' search, however, disgusted her and brought her back completely to the
mood of the salon, and led her deeply to appreciate Hedda Gabler, and to condemn American morality
and the "good" people. Of Hedda she wrote:

"Her character always did appeal to me, but last night I was in the mood especially to understand
and sympathise with Hedda, to be Hedda, in fact. For a few hours I was as brave and wonderful
in thought and feeling as she. It was the reaction from my stupid days in hunting a job. Her
disgust with everything, her search for something new and different, the fascination she felt
for saying and doing dangerous and reckless things--this I could understand so thoroughly!
I was in a very reckless and discontented mood, but I was able to get away from myself and
become Hedda for awhile; and this made me think of what a wonderful thing it is, what a power
Ibsen has, to produce such emotions by merely stringing a few words together. Why, the very
name Hedda, Hedda Gabler! When Eilert says it, what does it not convey! Terry and I had a long
talk about it, and about literature in general, so the result was that I became calm, quiet,
and reflective--as I love to be, but which I can be only very seldom. I have an almost continuous
craving for something new and strange, like Hedda. But somehow reading and thinking about her
calmed me. I can find new emotions in books, and this satisfies me for a time, but they are
never vital enough to last me long. It is only sterile emotions we derive from literature,
and so I turn again restlessly to life.

"But when I turn to life I find for the most part people who are unwilling to give themselves
up to life, who will not follow out their moods, or have none. When I am no longer capable
of abandoning myself, why continue? Most people seem to me to be dried up. They look as if
they never felt anything, so expressionless, so automatic are they, as if they had been wound
up to walk and talk, and eat and sleep in precisely the same way for a certain number of years.
This seems to be the American type. I suppose you have read of the Caruso affair--how he kissed
a woman in Central Park, or wanted to, and the howl it made? The way they all jumped on him,
in the name of morality! And you remember what happened to Gorky, when he was here? Why, these
American stiffs, what do they mean by morality? Since they are much too cold-blooded for immortality,
what do they know about it? This country is composed of pie-eating, ice-water drinking, sour-faced
business people. If one with emotions comes to this country, he is of course immoral. If there
were no foreigners here, this country would resemble the North Pole.

"I'm glad I am not an American in blood, for then I would not be as interesting to myself as
I am now. Sometimes I stand before my mirror and look at myself for a long, long time; it always
surprises me that I look so commonplace. Surely, something of what I have in me ought to show
in my face. But I know it's there, anyway. I know I'm altogether different from anyone else,
I know it with a kind of fierce joy; not better, of course, but different.

"For instance, this regularity and system they talk about! You wrote me to be more regular
and the like of that, if I wanted to sleep better. You, too, are a typical American! Just imagine
me drinking milk to make me sleep or grow fat! The thought of such a thing makes me shudder.
Your remark about amorous sport being a soporific if performed regularly and without excitement
made me double up with laughter. But I am quite sure that the performance of such a 'duty'
would not induce sleep. I am only moved to such things by new lovers, and then I desire not
sleep but wakefulness. And then, too, usually such desires come to me at noon, not at night,
and who ever heard of sleeping at noon!

"As for the other physical exercises that you recommend, I do walk along muddy, prosaic streets
and work in our household until I grow weary and ask the gods what sins I have committed. My
beloved cigarettes, which are as dear to me as sleep itself, my solace when sleep flies, my
comfort, you would take these away from me! What would I do without them? I am without them
sometimes, when Terry takes some of my tobacco, and then I am angry at him! The only plan I
have is to have enough tobacco. Otherwise, I have nothing arranged, no plan. You think there
is something fine in having logical arrangements for all things. I have never felt that way.
I am only a poor creature of an hour, of a moment, and have never had plans. I would love to
be where you are now, in Paris, that home of the planless, the free and joyous and emotional
people."

What most people think is good, is worth while, is in good taste, the salon rejected; partly,
of course, in the spirit of mere rejection, of revolt, but based nevertheless on a higher ideal
of human love than obtains in our society. These anarchists are not historians or practical
people and they are not as much interested in what society must be as in what society ought
to be; and because they see that society is not what it ought to be, because they as unfortunate
members of the labouring class feel that the origin of our society is the root of injustice,
they rebel totally against that society, rejecting the good with the evil. They passionately
believe that the real and radical evil in our social world is partly kept there by our very
justice, by our very morality, our very religion--kept there not so much by what is called
evil in our society as by what is called good. They see that much large kindness is prevented
by the morality which is expressed in the idea of private property, that much large virtue
is denied by the institution of marriage, that psychological truth and Christian kindness at
once are not considered by the social court, which looks only to the law--to the complex, historical
law, so often meaningless and unjust to human feeling, so often based upon special "interests"
and ancient prejudices.

Their situation, as proletarian interpreters of the working class, enables them to see whatever
is true in this view with peculiar vividness. For, of course, it is to their interest to see
this truth; for truth is only an impassioned statement of our fundamental needs.

The salon was composed of the poor and the criminal, and what kept it together was the human
desire to form a society, the norms of judgment of which should give value to the individual
members--the deep need of justification.

There were fakirs in the salon, unkind people, unjust people, vicious people; there were mere
"climbers," persons who saw their only chance for recognition and livelihood in the espousal
of anarchistic ideas. But there were also kind people, relatively just people, and moderate
ones, honest and strenuous with themselves. There were none perfect, as there are none perfect
in any society. We shall see how Terry became disgusted finally with the anarchists themselves,
preferring even insanity and probable death to them.

And Marie's letters are full of satire of her companions, of the perception of their weaknesses
and inconsistencies. She never embraces or rejects them so completely as Terry does, for she
sees them more clearly; therefore she sees them more humorously, understands them better. Her
letters teem with "psychological gossip," so to speak, in which some of her companions seem
portrayed with relative truth. One she wrote me, while I was seeing something in London, of
an anarchist named Nicoll, who was a friend of William Morris and still edits Morris's old
paper, is full of both appreciation and satire of a number of "radicals":

"An old friend of Nicoll's used to talk to me by the hour about him. He, the friend, an ordinary,
rather stupid fellow, once helped poor Nicoll, got a room for him and gave him money, after
he was released from prison. He felt proud to think that a man like Nicoll would accept hospitality
'from a poor bloke like me,' as he put it. His friendship with Nicoll has been the great event
of his life. Whenever anything occurs in the radical movement which recalls ever so slightly
the affair of which Nicoll was the scapegoat, his old friend will say, in his funny Jewish
Cockney, 'That's always the wey, like Nicoll's kise, for example.' Then he launches forth into
eloquent streams of denunciation, for he does not regard Nicoll as at all insane, but on the
contrary, 'the finest man ever downed' by aristocrats like Turner and Kropotkin.

"This affair has made our friend pessimistic about anarchism, at times, and inclined to join
the socialist party. His life is made miserable by the ceaseless debate of his mind and soul
over which of these two philosophies is the best one for the race. He, suspiciously, is always
looking for another case like Nicoll's, and is doubtful about all movements, not only anarchism
and socialism, but all which preach liberty, justice, and the like, such as Theosophy, Single
Tax, Sun Worshippers, Spirit Fruiters, Holy Rollers, Upton Sinclair's Helicot Colony, and Parker
Sercombe's Spencer-Whitman Centre. All these he has tested and found more or less wanting.
Life grows daily more melancholy for him, as he continues, on account of 'Nicoll's Kise,' to
probe beneath the surface of all the cults and movements which profess boundless love for humanity,
truth, justice and freedom.

"P. R., whom you have also met in London, has got himself into trouble by making inflammatory
speeches in Germany. When they talked of arresting him, he immediately claimed American citizenship.
But if he ever turned up in America again they would clap him in jail so quick it would make
his head swim. He, together with McQueen, was arrested here some years ago for helping start
the New Jersey riots, but he skipped his bonds, to the great disgust of the bondsmen, who were
comrades in the movement. The movement in the whole United States, Canada, Europe, and Asia
was divided into factions over this affair, and very nearly went to pieces. But it was ridiculous
to arrest him in the first place, for he could not incite a feather to riot. He is one of those
flamboyant wind-bags, with a terrific command of high-sounding phrases, eloquent gestures,
and fine eyes--the kind sixteen-year-old girls admire--to think I once loved him, or thought
I did! He is a big little physical coward and prides himself on being the realisation of Nietzsche's
Uebermensch.

"The movement in Chicago is about to resume its usual winter activity by the opening of the
Social Science League this Sunday evening. Mr. CHARLES COLNAGHI made his bow as a professional, and
played and sang excellently, as did also Mr. J. G. TAYLOR, in spite of the riotous conduct of the
"unfriendlies."

Then came Esther Sandraz. Mrs. LANGTRY looked lovely, and played with
great power; but what an unpleasant part! Until the end of the First Act
all was right. The sympathy was with the heroine of the hour, or, rather,
two hours and a half; but when it was discovered that Esther loved
but for revenge, and wished to bring sorrow and shame upon the fair
head of Miss MARION LEA, then the sentiments of the audience underwent
a rapid change.

Everyone would have been pleased if Mr. SUGDEN had shot himself in Act II.; nay, some of us
would not have complained if he had died in Act I., but the cat-and-mouse-like
torture inflicted upon him by Esther was the reverse of agreeable.

Mr. SUGDEN was only a "Johnnie", but still "Johnnies" have feelings
like the rest of us.

Mr. BOURCHIER was rather hard as a good young man who does not die, and
Mr. EVERILL (steady old stager) kept everything well together.

If the play keeps the boards for any length of time, it will be, thanks to the power of Mrs.
LANGTRY, the natural pathos of Miss MARION LEA, and the unforced
comedy of Mr. EVERILL.

On Monday Miss GRACE HAWTHORNE produced Theodora at the Princess's Theatre with some success. It cannot be
said, however, that Mlle. SARA BERNHARDT has at length found her rival, but, for all that, the heroine
of the moment might have been worse. "SARDOU'S masterpiece" (as the programmes
have it) was very well staged. The scenery and costumes were excellent,
and great relief was afforded to the more tragic tones of the play by entrusting
the heavy part of Andreas to Mr. LEONARD BOYNE, who is a thorough artist, with
just the least taste in life of the brogue that savours more of the Milesian
Drama.

Mr. W. H. VERNON was the Justinian of the evening, and looked the Lawgiver to the life; although I am not
quite sure whether a half-concealed moustache was quite the fashion in the days of the Empire. Mr.
ROBERT BUCHANAN, the adapter of "the masterpiece", introduced several nineteenth century expressions into
the dialogue.

In the "home of the Gladiators", it was quite pleasant to hear people
talking of a "row", and made one wish to have a description of "a
merry little mill", in the language of the sporting Press.

No doubt, the length of the performances was the reason why so racy
a narrative was omitted.

For the rest, there are some thirty speaking parts--a good allowance for a play consisting of six
Acts and seven Tableaux.

A "Masterpiece"

(in English) is better than a feast, for it is enough--for a lifetime.

Believe me, yours faithfully,

ONE WHO HAS TAKEN A DOUBLE "FIRST."

* * * * *

* * * * *

A STIRRING POLE.--A more stirring pianist than PADEREWSKI, who played
on Friday afternoon at St. James's Hall for the first time in England,
has never been heard.

The
report that he is a Polonised Irishman needs confirmation.

The name is suspicious.
But there are no sound reasons for supposing that the first two syllables of PADEREWSKI'S
name are simply a corruption of the Hibernian "Paddy."

* * * * *

CLASSIC MOTTO FOR THOSE WHO SELL AS THE GENUINE ARTICLE TEA UNDER
A FALSE BRAND.--"Nomine mutato fabula narratur de Tea."

* * * * *

MRS. R. wants to know if she can ascertain all about the Law of Libel,
&c., in the works which she contemplates purchasing of WALTER SAVAGE SLANDOR.

*
* * * *

OUR ADVERTISERS.

A
New Departure, or the "Give-'em-a-hand-all-round" Wrinkle.

ROYAL QUARTPOTARIUM.--THE RENOWNED WORLD FASTING CHAMPION, who is
dressed in a READY-MADE SUIT OF TWEED DITTOS (38s.) supplied by Messrs.
LEVI, SOLOMANS & CO., of 293, Houndsditch, and is

* * *

SEATED ON
THE GENT'S EASY LOUNGE CHAIR, forming one of the articles of the highly-upholstered
dining-room set (as advertised) by Messrs. GLUBBINS, KNICKERBOCKER
& CO., of Tottenham Court Road, where at any hour he can be seen

*
* *

SIPPING ALTERNATELY FROM TWO LARGE CUT-GLASS TUMBLERS, furnished
by Messrs. WAGBITTER AND GROANS, of New Oxford Street,

* * *

BLINKER'S
CONCENTRATED COD-LIVER EMULSION MELTED FATS (57s. the dozen pints,
bottles included), and

* * *

SPARKLING SINGULARIS WATER, bottled
in nine-gallon flagons by the Company at their extensive works in
the Isle of Dogs, with which, to the satisfaction of his friends,
he succeeds in washing down, in turns, hourly,

* * *

BINNACLE'S
CONDENSED DIGESTIVE BOILED PORK LOZENGES, supplied by all respectable
Chemists throughout the United Kingdom, in 1s.

9d.,
3s.

9d., 13s. 3d., 27s. 6d., and 105s. Boxes;

* * *

SIDES, BREASTS, FORE-QUARTERS, SADDLES, AND ENTIRE WHOLE OR
HALF-SHEEP OF PRIME BOLIVIAN MUTTON delivered daily by the Company's
carts, from their own Refrigerators;

* * *

WINKER'S INVALID INFANT'S
PICK-ME-UP CORDIAL--(WINKER & CO., the Manufactory, Hoxton-on-Sea);

*
* *

TINNED AMERICAN OYSTERS.

FINE SELECTED
THIRDS. Guaranteed by the Blue-Point Company, Wriggleville, Texas,
U.S.A.; and

* * *

ZWINGERINE, the new marvellous nerve and tone-restoring, and muscle,
bone, and fat-producing agency, EACH TEASPOONFUL OF WHICH contains,
in a highly-concentrated form, three bottles of port wine, soup, fish,
cut off the joint, two entrées, sweet, cheese, and celery, as testified
to by a public analyst of standing and repute.

Agents, GLUM & CO, Seven Dials.

* * *

THE FASTING CHAMPION continues to receive visitors as above from 6
A.M. to 11 P.M. daily, and may be inspected, watched, stared at, pinched,
questioned, and examined generally, by his admiring friends, the British
Public, in his private sanctum at the Royal Quartpotarium, till further
notice.

* * * * *

IN THE KNOW.--(By Mr. Punch's Own Prophet.)

CARDINAL
RICHELIEU once observed to Madame DE ST. GALMIER, that if Kings could
but know the folly of their subjects they would hesitate at nothing.

Mr. JEREMY evidently knows thoroughly how stupendously cabbage-headed
his readers are, for he never hesitates to put forward the most astounding
and muddy-minded theories.

For instance,
he asks us this week to believe that Saladin ought to have won the
Shropshire Handicap, because he was known to be a better horse, from
two miles up to fifty, than the four other horses who faced the starter.

If this stuff had been addressed to an audience of moon-calves and
mock-turtles it might have passed muster, but, thank Heaven, we are
not all quite so low as that yet.

Let me therefore tell Mr. JEREMY, that when a horse like Saladin,
whose back-bone is like the Himalaya mountains, and his pastern joints
like a bottle-nosed whale with a cold in his head, comes to the post
with two stone and a beating to his credit, and four hoofs about the
size of a soup-tureen to his legs, he can never be expected to get
the better of slow roarers like Carmichael and Busby, to say nothing
of Whatnot and Pumblechook.

It is well known, of course, that the latter has been in hard training
for a month, and a better horse at cornbin or bran-mash never stepped.

Saladin won, I know, but it was for reasons very different from
those given by Mr. JEREMY.

There is nothing new about the Derby horses. I believe they are mostly
in training, but I reserve my opinion until I see what the addle-pates
who own them mean to do.

* * * * *

"A SELF-MADE MAN", said Mrs. R., thoughtfully, "is the artichoke of his own
fortunes."

* * * * *

From the bears, apes, and foxes with which the thickets
of the great forest of Societas abounded, it is but a step to the
Pygmy tribes whom we found inhabiting the tract of country between
the Uperten and the Suburban rivers.

The Pygmies are as old as Swelldom, as ubiquitous as Boredom, the
two secular pests of the earth.

You will remember that Hercules once fell asleep in the deserts of
Africa, after his conquest of Antæus, and was disturbed in his well-earned
rest by an attack of a large army of these troublesome Lilliputians,
who, it is recorded, "discharged their arrows with great fury upon
his arms and legs."

The hero, it is added, "pleased with their courage, wrapped a great number
of them in the skin of the Nemean lion, and carried them to Eurystheus."

I was not "pleased with their courage", but plagued with their importunities. HERODOTUS described the
capture of five young explorers from Naasamoves while they were examining some curious trees in the
Niger basin, and tells how the little men took them to their villages and showed them about to their fellow
Pygmies. So, in a sense, the Pygmies of Societas "captured" me, and showed me about to their fellow
denizens of this Land of Lilliput. They "discharged their arrows" (which they
called "In-Vites", and each of which was branded with the mystic letters,
R.S.V.P.) at me in swarms, and though they rather tickled than hurt,
yet after a time their minute but multiplied prickings became no end of a nuisance.

Let
us pause a little, and pay such honour as is due for persistence and
importunity to these "little people", who have outlived the wise men of Egypt,
the prophets of Palestine, the magicians of Persia, and the sages
of Greece and Rome.

They have actually been able to hold their own from the days of HOMER,
through those of HORACE, down even to those of HAGGARD.

I have seen the wear and tear of the Pyramids of Egypt (which is
nothing to that of a lionised hero in Societas); I can certify that
the Sphynx presents a very battered appearance indeed (though not
so battered as mine, after the "little people" had done with me),
but the Pygmies of to-day in Societas appear to be as plentiful and
as perky as those that thousands of years ago swarmed in Æthiopia,
built their houses with egg-shells, made war upon the Cranes, and
attacked the tired hero Hercules.

You will understand that I, who have always professed to love humanity,
even in the form of mannikins, better than beetles and butterflies,
was as much interested in these small creatures as was Hercules in
the skinful of midgets he carried to the exacting Eurystheus.

As I looked at them, and thought how these represented the oldest race
on the globe--namely, the Inquisitive Quidnuncs--my admiration really
went to greater lengths than scoffing cynics might have expected.

These Pygmies of Societas, though small, are cunning, and wise in their generation.
For the most part they toil not, (save at pleasure-seeking and lion-hunting),
neither do they spin (anything beyond the edifying yarns they call "after-dinner
stories").

But they manage to live on the fat of the land. The larger aborigines
(called the Whirkirs) are very industrious, and form the clearings and cultivate
the various produce of the place. The Pygmies appear to be aware that the
plantations and powers of the Whirkirs are practically inexhaustible,
and to think that they have as much right to the produce as the aboriginal
owners and tillers.

Therefore, they cling tightly to these plantations, and make the larger and
more laborious natives pay dearly for the honour of their acquaintance.

In
another manner they perform valuable service by setting fashions, receiving
strangers, and assisting in the defence of the settlements; they also hunt
game, and supply the larger natives with plenty to do in working for
and waiting on them. It appeared to me that the Pygmies were regarded
somewhat as parasites (though highly ornamental ones, like orchids)
whose departure would be more welcome--to the aborigines--than their
vicinity.

But a race which has survived so much and so many things is not easily to be got rid of.

Anyhow, I couldn't get rid of them, though sometimes I felt inclined to imitate
Hercules. With their arrows and their unblushing importunities they had
me at advantage, and even as Gulliver became the victim of the midgets
of Lilliput, so did I of the innumerable, inquisitive, imperturbably
impertinent Pygmies of Societas.

* * * * *

THE FIRST FIGHT.

(Between the Seventh Team of Australian Cricketers and an English Eleven, begun at Sheffield
Park, on May 8, 1890.)

A HAZE hung over the Surrey Downs In the early morning; but Nature's frowns
Broke up in smiles as the day advanced. And the grey mist cleared and
the sunbeams glanced On MURDOCH bold, and his merry men. When hundreds
of optics, and many a pen Were on the alert, at Sheffield Park, The
valiant deeds (between wickets) to mark Of the Seventh Australian
Cricketing lot.

MURDOCH and LYONS, BARRETT and TROTT, Lads of their inches in flesh and bones; TURNER and WALTERS, BLACKHAM
and JONES, GREGORY, CHARLTON and FERRIS too; A sterling Eleven, second to few. Whilst "odd
men" TRUMBLE and BURN and BOYLE "Stood out" of the first big match's toil, 'Gainst GRACE and STODDART,
NEWHAM and READ, SHERWIN and SHREWSBURY, stout at need, LOHMANN and HUMPHREYS, and BRIGGS and PEEL, And ATTEWELL
with the nerves of steel.

No need
to tell how they met and fought, And bowled, and batted, and stumped, and caught;
But Mr. Punch, who has seen all six Of the other Elevens before the "sticks",
And cheered them victors, or vanquished cheered, Shoots forth his
fist, as the lists are cleared, To welcome back to an English wicket
These champions fresh of Colonial Cricket.

He will not "butter" you, boys, for that you'll hate. Only he must most sincerely congratulate His old
friend MURDOCH on starting so well. Go it, Sir, keep it up, W. L.! Here's wishing the lot of you
health and pluck, Decent weather and level luck. And when your last "four"
to the boundary flashes, Take all good things home with you--saving those
"ashes."

* * * * *

* * * * *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

READ "As Haggards on the Rock" in Scribner's for May.

It is a weird tale, but nothing whatever to do with "HAGGARD" ("RIDER"
of that ilk), which may or may not be an additional attraction, according
to the taste and fancy of the reader.

"Never do I see Scribner's Magazine", quoth the Baron, "without wishing to change its name, or
start a competitor under the style and title of 'Scribbler's Magazine.' If the latter isn't 'a colourable
imitation,' it must be done, and that speedily."

Woman, though appearing weekly, comes out peculiarly strong.

"A really entertaining, interesting, and chatty publication", says
the Baroness.

One of the best volumes of the Badminton Library series is that on Golf, recently published, written chiefly
by HORACE G. HUTCHINSON, with capital contributions on the subject from the great ruler of Home-Rulers,
ARTHUR BALFOUR, M.P., and the ubiquitous and universally gifted MERRY ANDREW LANG, to whom no subject,
apparently, presents any difficulty whatever, he being, like Father
O'FLYNN, able to discourse on Theology or Conchology, or Mythology,
and all the other ologies, including, in this instance, Golfology,
with equal skill and profundity of wisdom.

Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit, and the scent of the LANG Y LANG, is
over all periodical literature generally. Let not the elderly intending
student of Golf, on opening the book, be deterred by seeing a chapter
headed "Clubs and Balls", which may induce him to say, "My dancing
days are over."

The illustrations, by Messrs. C. L. SHUTE, T. HODGE, and H. FIERY
FURNISS, are excellent.

The vignettes in A. LANG's paper--especially one happily taken from an
"Old Miss-all", where several players are represented as not making
a hit--are both interesting and amusing. On the whole--on the Golfian Hole--a
capital volume.

Mr. Punch drinks to his Grace of BEAUFORT in a cup of Badminton. Of course not so intimately
as within the last eight or nine years; but ever since I took my seat on piles of bound volumes at
feet of the MASTER, have kept one eye on Parliament.

Never saw a scene to equal what took place to-night.

When House met, good deal of talk about yesterday's Labour Demonstration. Everybody agreed it was enormous,
unprecedented, momentous.

The Working Man demands a day of eight hours' labour, and will see
that he gets it. Still talking about the matter in whispers. Second
Heading of Budget Bill under discussion; SHAW-LEFEVRE on legs, protesting
against increased expenditure on Army and Navy.

Undertakes to show it is absolutely unnecessary.

Beginning his demonstration when hand of clock touched hour of Six.

SPEAKER rose with cry of "Order!

Order!" SHAW-LEFEVRE resumed seat; afraid he had, in exuberance of eloquence,
committed some breach of order. Members crowded in to hear what SPEAKER
had to say.

"This House," he said, as soon as silence restored, "will now adjourn. At
least I must withdraw; and unless it can be shown that Deputy-Speaker
has been in bed all day, or otherwise idling his time, you cannot go on.
Under ordinary circumstances, House meeting at Three o'clock, we
should have adjourned sharp at Eleven to-night; but the fact is, my
day's work began at Ten this morning.

That is a necessity of my position. With interval of hasty meals, I have
been accustomed to work a maximum of twelve hours a day, often running
up to fourteen.

That,
however, now over. Settled by Working Man that Labour Day should not
exceed Eight Hours. We will, therefore, now break up. I daresay some of you
Hon. Gentlemen, engaged at the Bar or in affairs in the City, commenced
your work even earlier than Ten?"

"Sir", said OLD MORALITY, "I do not know whether I am in order in speaking
after the clock has struck Six, and so extending our legal day. I
will, however, promise to be brief. In fact, I rise merely to confirm
your view, Sir, of our position.

For my own part, I have been closely engaged in the business that
pertains to performance of my duty to the QUEEN and Country, since
an hour earlier than Ten this morning, and I think I may say the same
for my friends near me on this Bench.

[ASHMEAD-BARTLETT: "Hear, hear!"] We were, as usual, prepared to go forward with our work, to sit here till
whatever hour was necessary to accomplish it. Without abating one jit or tottle--"

SIR WILLIAM HARCOURT: "The Right Hon. Gentleman probably means one
jot or tittle."

OLD MORALITY: "In accordance with my habit, Sir, I meant what I said. As I was saying, when perhaps somewhat
unnecessarily interrupted by the Right Hon. Gentleman, I do not abate
one tit or jottle of my desire to perform my duty where duty is doo;
but since our friend the Working Man has declared in favour of a labouring
day confined to Eight Hours, we must needs follow him."

OLD MORALITY packed up his papers; JOKIM locked up red box containing
papers relating to Budget Scheme; HARCOURT rose to continue discussion;
discovered that SPEAKER had gone, and Serjeant-at-Arms removed Mace;
so, at few minutes past Six, got off with plenty of time to enjoy
that recreation, and cultivate those family relations, not less dear
to a Member of Parliament than to the more 'orny 'anded son of toil.

Odd at
this early hour to hear cry of Doorkeeper, "Who goes home?"

"Well", says Member for St. Pancras, "I think I'll be BOLTON." And he bolted. Business done.----New
Eight Hours' Day arrangement came into operation. Entirely successful.

Tuesday.--RITCHIE a mild-mannered man, six feet high, and of genial
temperament.

But there are some things he can't stand. One is, to assume that Government Bill dealing with Local Taxation
involves Compensation for disestablished publicans.

"I must say", he observed, just now, glaring on CALEB WRIGHT, "that
I object to the word Compensation which the Hon. Gentleman has used
in his question."

What Government had done was to propose measure for the extinction of licences.
Of course, a little money would pass. JOKIM, in Budget Scheme, made
provision to enable County Council to buy out publicans.

"But to call such a transaction Compensation is", RITCHIE added, his left eye
twitching in fearsome manner on CALEB WRIGHT, "preposterous."

That being so, House went into Committee on Allotments Bill, and drummed
away till sitting suspended.

At Evening Sitting, BOB REID brought on Motion raising sort of British Land Question. Wants to empower
Town Councils and County Councils in England and Scotland to acquire,
either by agreement or compulsorily, such land within their district
as may be needed for the requirements of the inhabitants.

House naturally shocked to find a Member proposing to discuss any
phase of Land Question apart from Ireland. Interposition of Great Britain
in this connection regarded as impertinence.

Compromise arrived at; agreed to leave out Scotland.
On these terms Debate went forward.

CHAPLIN in charge of case for Government. At last, in his natural position,
temporary Leader of the House.

CHAPLIN (aside), "Glamis and Thane of Cawdor! the greatest is behind."

How different from ancient days and nights, when he sat below Gangway
in corner seat, that is, when he could get it.

Couldn't always; sometimes presumptuous person forestalled him.

Even when there, with notes of treasured speech in swelling breast
pocket, by no means certain he would find opportunity of convincing
House.

Others step in, and edge him on into ignominious dinner hour.

Now
a Minister of the Crown, with a new Department created for his control; to-night
in charge of Government business. OLD MORALITY off early, full of restful
confidence.

"CHAPLIN'S looking after things", he said, as he made himself comfortable
in his room.

"Needn't bother;
all will go right. Great thing for a First Minister to have a man he can thoroughly
depend on."

"At least, TOBY", CHAPLIN said, "those were his remarks as reported
to me. I will not deny that they are gratifying."

At the proper time--at his own time--the Minister for Agriculture
rose, and, positively pervading the premises, utterly demolished BOB
REID, his supporters, his arguments, and his resolution.

"CHAPLIN", said JOHN MORLEY, watching him with admiring glance, "always
reminds me of VICTOR HUGO'S description of the Rev. Ebenezer Caudray.

You remember him in Les Travailleurs de la Mer? Haven't the book with
me, but translation runs something like this:--'He had the gracefulness
of a page, mingled with the dignity of a Bishop.' Never knew that
VICTOR HUGO was personally acquainted with CHAPLIN; but he certainly
here hits off his characteristics in a phrase."

Business done.--Miscellaneous, and not much.

Thursday.--"Where do you put the Cow?"

"Was
ever man interrupted with such a question in such circumstances?" asked JESSE
COLLINGS, unconsciously quoting Tristram Shandy's father.

Circumstances sufficiently strange to make a man quote STERNE, even
if he'd never read his masterpiece.

House in Committee on Budget Bill. STOREY moved Amendment on Clause 26,
dealing with exemption from Inhabited House Duty of tenement buildings.

CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER taken part in the Debate. CHARLES RUSSELL said
a few words.

House in most serious, not to say depressed mood. Subject
particularly inviting for JESSE; always advocated welfare of Working
Classes; now seized opportunity to descant on theme.
 'And unto us a child was born.'
How those words ring in my ears! So vividly come back to me the pity I felt when I heard the
story of the poor little infant born to be crucified. It always made me cry--out of pity, the
pity of it all! And I wonder if we are not all, all of us, born to be crucified.

"But I suppose I must congratulate you on assuming the responsibility of fatherhood for the
third time. You might long ago have studied pre-natal influences and the rights of the unborn.
I hope you have not neglected these sacred duties. It surprised me that you wished for a girl,
for not long ago you expressed the opinion that women were soulless creatures without memory!
Suppose your daughter should not be an exception, how would you feel then?... You have been
very active. As for me, I fear my only activity will be that of a dreamer. I differ from the
dreaming class only in one respect and that is, in making confidences, which dreamers never
do. They shrivel up into themselves. They usually create their own sorrows, which have no remedy
except the joys they also invent. They are natural only when alone, and talk well only to themselves."

In the same letter she plunges into the gossip of the Salon:

"I don't blame Scott for his carelessness. The poor fellow has been suffering terribly because
of his wife, who has left him and gone off with a new love to a new home. Scott has been quite
heroic about it, but he suffers. You know how in our radical society men and women try to deny
that they are jealous, try to give freedom to each other. But whatever our ideas may be, we
cannot control our fundamental instincts, and poor Scott is now a wounded thing, I can assure
you. But he speaks beautifully of his wife--even packed up her things for her and escorted
her to the new place.

"Scott came here the other night with your friend the journalist, Fiske, who has become quite
a part of our little society. I am sorry to say that he is quite sad, too, but for a different
reason. The poor fellow seems to be suffering from lack of literary inspirations. He has a
habit of asking people what shall he write about. He asks Terry, and even me, and in pity I
am trying to write up the old women in our tenement for him....

"I see a good deal of Thompson and his wife Minna. Now that Thompson, who was a famous radical,
is more prosperous, he is growing careful and conservative. The glory of her husband is reflected
in Minna. I don't call at their home so much as I did, because I made what they call a break
there the other day. I thoughtlessly introduced myself as Miss L---- to someone of his relatives
or relatives' friends, after she had already introduced me as Mrs. C----. And Thompson informed
me next day that it was inconvenient to explain such things to conservative people, and that
I ought to be more careful in dealing with the unenlightened ones. I suppose I ought to think
more of the reputation of my friends."

Marie likes the Jews of the Salon, many of them, very much, but there are some she doesn't,
as the following shows:

"Things are rather dead in the 'movement,' just now. But there is something doing among the
Jewish radicals, who, you know, are very important in any radical movement here in Chicago.
No wonder things are lively when the Jews have such a leader as Mr. Kohen, whom one might believe
to be the long wanted Messiah, destined to lead his race into the promised land, which is evidently
Chicago. There was a hot time about three weeks ago in the Masonic Temple meeting when this
modern prophet demonstrated to us who were not Jews that they (he and his friends) were the
chosen people who would not only liberate themselves but also us from the yoke of capitalist
oppression; and contrary to all previous rules, they would do this without any consideration
of moneys; all that Mr. Kohen expected in return was due appreciation. I suppose I ought to
be grateful to Mr. Kohen, but somehow I am not. I ought, too, to be grateful to our Jewish
Madonna, Esther, but there again I am not. Poor girl! she is really the Madonna of the Chicago
movement. All the sorrows and troubles of the Salon rest upon her poor shoulders, and she silently
suffers, sacrifices and redeems. Then there is little Sara, another chosen one. It is she who
is chosen to make men miserable for the good of their souls. She has been very pensive since
the great poet B---- left, for now she has no one to worry about. I suggested to her that she
might worry about Terry, if she liked, and she said she would try, with a weary little sigh.
It was she who one day explained to me at great length that all love except sensual love was
of a transient character. If, she said, man swears he loves you, but does not show any physical
interest in you, you can bet that his passion is of that intangible sort that has the radiant
tints but also the evanescence of dew!...

"I am going to a ball next Sunday night. It's on the Jewish holiday in memory of the time when
poor Moses led the Jews from Egypt and they had to eat unleavened bread. All the orthodox Jews
will spend the day praying in the synagogue, without tasting food or drink. They make up for
it the next day, though, you bet. The ball is given every year by the radical Jews, usually
right in the Ghetto, and nearly always the followers of holy Moses jump on those who no longer
follow, and there's a hot time. Last year the radical Jews, mostly anarchists, had to have
police protection! The police are good for something, after all! What should we do without
them? We would exterminate each other without delay!"

Perhaps Marie's temporary "grouch" against the Jews was partly due to the irruption into her
Society of three new and attractive Israelites of her own sex--an event happening about that
time. In one of these newcomers, Terry, it appears, was somewhat interested, and Marie has
often admitted that her philosophy of freedom is powerless to overcome her "fundamental emotions."
Writing of Miss B---- she said: "She is a regular little Becky Sharp, very demure and quiet,
and proper and distinguished. All the women hate her, and the men flock about her, for she
is pretty and a free lover, of course. She comes once or twice a week to our salon, and then
Terry is always present, and they get along famously. She talks of 'the realm of physics,'
or 'of biology,' and I admit it bores me, her voice is so monotonous. She takes evident pleasure
in Terry's society. Perhaps I am a little jealous, but it does not make me feel any different
toward him, and that is the main thing, the only thing I really care about....

"I must admit that I grow tired at times of the 'movement.' Kate says she has cut it out altogether,
and Terry goes to the meetings very seldom. I dutifully attend the lectures, where they talk
about the same old things in the same old way, and also the socials and visit the comrades
once in a while. But they do get on my nerves sometimes. I prefer to stay at home, in the inner
circle of the salon, reading and sucking at my cigarette when I have one. I scrub the floor
once in a while, just because of sheer weariness from not doing anything.

"Terry has been writing an article on 'the general strike,' but did not finish it. He is like
me in lacking energy enough to carry out any plan or purpose unless great pressure is brought
to bear upon him either from within or without. I am sure that if he continued to feel strongly
about the general strike he would go on to finish it. But he has a great distrust, really,
of the 'labour' movement and of labour leaders. He believes that all social improvement must
come from the workers, but how many difficulties there are! One of the greatest is the lack
of good leaders. I myself have not much hope for the workers as long as they remain sheep who
are lost without leaders, are dependent and led either by honest men who know not clearly how,
where, or why, or by intelligent men, whose intelligence usually takes the form of trickery
and self-interest. The intelligent honest ones seem not to be cut out to be leaders, or successful
in any way. Sheep are led or driven most easily by those who can make the most noise, and they
follow as readily over the precipice as over the road. The slightest thing serves to frighten
and scatter them in all directions, in outward confusion and helplessness, unless the burly
insistent watchers are for ever at their heels. Leaders of such a herd must often be unscrupulous
to have any success, must use their intelligence for all sorts of devices, often cruel and
unjust, to keep their flocks from wandering: any means justifies the end, which is the good
of the cause.

"Perhaps it is a good sign that people from the higher walks of life are beginning to take
notice of the workingman's problem, and maybe the ideal leader will come from above, but even
so I doubt if that will help much. I have a feeling that all movements dependent on leaders
must necessarily fail. Of course, I know that the people of the 'higher life' fear the stupidity
and brutality of the mass of workers, and argue that leaders are necessary to guide and restrain
them. This is only partly true; there is hardly any doubt about the stupidity of the mob, but
they are not at all so brutal. True, during times of strike they will throw stones and slug
strike-breakers, but they are not nearly as brutal as the 'scabs,' who are incited, aided,
and protected by the employers and police, and who lack the emotional exaltation which often
inspires the workers to this violence. 

For the moment, he tacitly accepted the attitude which the marabout chose to take up. "Let the fellow save
his face by pretending to yield entirely for the boy's sake," he said to himself. "What can it matter
so long as he does yield?"

In the pocket with the revolver was a letter which Sabine had induced
Hassan ben Saad to write, and now Stephen produced it.

The writing was in Arabic, of course; but Sabine, who knew the language well,
had translated every word for him before he started from Oued Tolga. Stephen knew,
therefore, that the boy's uncle, without confessing how he had strayed
from duty, admitted that, "by an incredible misfortune," the young
Mohammed had been enticed away from him.

He feared, Hassan ben Saad added, to make a disturbance, as an influential friend--Captain Sabine--advised
him to inform the marabout of what had happened before taking public action
which the child's father might disapprove.

The Arab frowned as he read on, not wholly because of his anger with
the boy's guardian, though that burned in his heart, hot as a new-kindled
fire, and could be extinguished only by revenge.

"This
Captain Sabine," he said slowly, "I know slightly. He called upon
me at a time when he made a well in the neighbourhood.

Was it he who put into thine head these ridiculous notions concerning
a dead man?

I warn
thee to answer truly if thou wouldst gain anything from me."

"My countrymen don't, as a rule, transact business by telling diplomatic
lies," said Stephen smiling, as he felt that he could now afford to
smile.

"Captain Sabine did not put the notion into my head."

"Hast thou spoken of it to him?"

Stephen shrugged his shoulders slightly.

"I do not see that I'm called upon to answer that question. All I will say is, you need have no fear
of Captain Sabine or of any one else, once Miss Ray is safely out of this place."

The marabout turned this answer over quickly in his mind.

He knew that, if Sabine or any Frenchman suspected his identity and his plans for the future, he was irretrievably
lost. No private consideration would induce a French officer to spare him, if aware that he hoped
eventually to overthrow the rule of France in North Africa. This being the case (and believing that Knight
had learned of the plot), he reflected that Sabine could not have been taken into the secret, otherwise
the Englishman dare not make promises. He saw too, that it would have been impolitic for Knight to take
Sabine into his confidence. A Frenchman in the secret would have ruined
this coup d'état; and, beginning to respect Stephen as an enemy, he
decided that he was too clever to be in real partnership with the
officer.

Ben Halim's growing conviction was that his wife, Saidee, had told
Victoria all she knew and all she suspected, and that the girl had
somehow contrived to smuggle a letter out of the Zaouïa to her English
lover.

The distrust and dislike he had long felt for Saidee suddenly burst
into a flame of hatred.

He longed to crush under his foot the face he had once loved, to grind out its beauty with a spurred heel.
And he hated the girl, too, though he could not punish her as he could
punish Saidee, for he must have Maïeddine's help presently, and Maïeddine
would insist that she should be protected, whatever might happen to
others.

But he was beginning to see light ahead, if he might take it for granted that his secret was suspected
by no more than four persons--Saidee, Victoria, and the two Englishmen
who were acting for the girl.

"I see by this letter from my brother-in-law that it is even as thou
sayest; thou and thy friend together have committed the cruel wrong
of which thou boastest," Ben Halim said at last.

"A
father robbed of his one son is as a stag pinned to earth with a spear through his heart. He is in
the hands of the hunter, his courage ebbing with his life-blood.

Had this thing been done when thou wert here before, I should have
been powerless to pay the tribute, for the lady over whom thou claimst
a right was not within my gates.

Now, I admit, she has come.

If she wish to go with thee, she is free to do so. But I will send with her men of my own, to travel
by her side, and refuse to surrender her until my child is given
into their hands."

"That is easy to arrange," Stephen agreed.

"I will telegraph to my friend, who is by this time--as you can see by your
letter--two days' journey away or more. He will return with your
son, and an escort, but only a certain distance.

I will meet him at some place appointed, and we will hand the boy over
to your men."

"It will be better that the exchange should be made here," said the
marabout.

"I can see why it might be so from your point of view, but that view is not ours. You have too much
power here, and frankly, I don't trust you. You'll admit that I'd
be a fool if I did!

The meeting must be at some distance from your Zaouïa."

The marabout raised his eyebrows superciliously. They said--"So thou art afraid!" But Stephen was
not to be taunted into an imprudence where Victoria's safety was at stake.

"Those are our terms," he repeated.

"Very well, I accept," said the Arab.

"Thou mayest send a message to the lady, inviting her to leave my
house with thee; and I assure thee, that in any case I would have
no wish to keep her, other than the desire of hospitality.

Thou canst take her at once, if she will go; and passing through the city,
with her and my men, thou canst send thy telegram. Appoint as a meeting
place the Bordj of Toudja, one day's march from the town of Oued
Tolga.

When my men have the child in their keeping, thou wilt be free to
go in peace with the girl and thy friend."

"I should be glad if thou wouldst send for her, and let me talk with her here,"
Stephen suggested.

"No, that cannot be," the marabout answered decidedly. "When she is out of my house, I wash my hands of
her; but while she is under my roof it would be shameful that she
should speak, even in my presence, with a strange man."

Stephen
was ready to concede a point, if he could get his wish in another way. "Give me paper, then, and
I will write to the lady," he said. "There will be an answer, and it must be brought to me quickly, for already
I have stopped longer than I expected, and Captain Sabine, who knows I have come to call upon
you and fetch a friend, may be anxious."

He spoke his last words with a certain emphasis, knowing that Ben Halim
would understand the scarcely veiled threat.

The marabout went into the next room, and got some French writing paper. Stephen wrote a hasty note,
begging Victoria to leave the Zaouïa under his care.

He would take her, he said, to Lady MacGregor, who had come to Touggourt
on purpose to be at hand if wanted.

He wrote in English, but because he was sure that Ben Halim knew the language,
he said nothing to Victoria about her sister.

Only he mentioned, as if carelessly, that he had brought a good camel with a comfortable bassour
large enough for two.

When the letter was in an envelope, addressed to Miss Ray, the marabout took
it from Stephen and handed it to somebody outside the door, no doubt
one of the three watchers.

There were mumbled instructions in Arabic, and ten minutes later
an answer came back.

Stephen could have shouted for joy at sight of Victoria's handwriting. There were only a few lines, in
pencil, but he knew that he would keep them always, with her first
letter.

"Oh, how glad I am that you're here!" she wrote. "By and by I hope to thank you--but of course I
can't come without my sister.

She is wretched, and wants to leave the man who seems to her no longer a husband, but she thinks he will
not want to let her go. Tell him that it must be both of us, or neither.

Or if you feel it would be better, give him this to read, and ask him to send an answer."

Stephen guessed why the girl had written in French. She had fancied that
the marabout would not choose to admit his knowledge of English, and he
admired the quickness of her wit in a sudden emergency.

As he handed the letter to the Arab, Stephen would have given a great
deal to see the face under the black mask. He could read nothing of the
man's mind through the downcast eyelids, with their long black fringe
of close-set lashes.

And he knew that Ben Halim must have finished the short letter at least
sixty seconds before he chose to look up from the paper.

"It is best," the marabout said slowly, "that the two sisters go together.

A man of Islam has the right to repudiate a woman who gives him no children,
but I have been merciful.

Now an opportunity
has come to rid myself of a burden, without turning adrift one who is helpless
and friendless. For my son's sake I have granted thy request; for my
own sake I grant the girl's request: but both, only on one condition--that
thou swearest in the name of thy God, and upon the head of thy father,
never to breathe with thy lips, or put with thy hand upon paper, the
malicious story about me, at which thou hast to-day hinted; that thou
enforce upon the two sisters the same silence, which, before going,
they must promise me to guard for ever.

Though there is no foundation for the wicked fabrication, and no
persons of intelligence who know me would believe it, even if I had
no proof, still for a man who holds a place of spiritual eminence,
evil gossip is a disgrace."

"I
promise for myself, for my friend, and for both the ladies, silence
on that subject, so long as we may live.

I swear before my God, and on the head of my dead father, that I will keep
my word, if you keep yours to me," said Stephen, who knew only half
the secret.

Yet he was astonished at gaining his point
so easily. He had expected more trouble. Nevertheless, he did not see how
the marabout could manage to play him false, if he wanted to get his boy
and hide the truth about himself.

"I am content," said the Arab. "And thou shouldst be content, since
thou hast driven a successful bargain, and it is as if the contract
between us were signed in my heart's blood.

Now, I will leave thee. When the ladies are ready, thou shalt be called
by one of the men who will be of their escort. It is not necessary that
thou and I meet again, since we have, I hope, finished our business together,
once and for ever."

* * * * * * *

"Why is it that he lets me go, without even trying to make me swear never
to tell what I know?"

Saidee asked Victoria, while all in haste and in confusion they put
together a few things for the long journey.

Saidee packed the little volumes
of her diary, with trembling fingers, and looked a frightened question
at her sister.

"I'm thankful that he doesn't ask us," Victoria answered, "for we couldn't
promise not to tell, unless he would vow never to do the dreadful
things you say he plans--lead a great rising, and massacre the French.

Even to escape, one couldn't make a promise which might cost thousands of lives."

"We
could perhaps evade a promise, yet seem to do what he asked," said Saidee,
who had learned subtle ways in a school of subtlety.

"I'm terrified that he doesn't ask. Why isn't he afraid to let us go,
without any assurances?"

"He knows that because you've been his wife, we wouldn't betray him unless
we were forced to, in order to prevent massacres," Victoria tried
to reassure her sister.

"And perhaps for the sake of getting his boy back, he's willing to renounce
all his horrible plans."

"Perhaps--since he worships the child," Saidee half agreed. "Yet--it
doesn't seem like Cassim to be so easily cowed, and to give up the whole
ambition of his life, with scarcely a struggle, even for his child."

"You
said, when you told me how you had written to Mr. Knight, that Cassim
would be forced to yield, if they took the boy, and so the end would
justify the means."

"Yes. It was a great card to play.

But--but I expected him to make me take a solemn oath never to tell what I know."

"Don't
let's think of it," said Victoria. "Let's just be thankful that we're going,
and get ready as quickly as we can, lest he should change his mind
at the last moment."

"Or lest Maïeddine should find out," Saidee added. "But, if Cassim really
means us to go, he won't let Maïeddine find out. He will thank Allah
and the Prophet for sending the fever that keeps Maïeddine in his bedroom."

"Poor
Maïeddine!"

Victoria half whispered.
In her heart lurked kindness for the man who had so desperately loved
her, even though love had driven him to the verge of treachery.

"I hope he'll forget all about me and be happy," she said.

And then, because she was happy herself, and
the future seemed bright, she forgot Maïeddine, and thought only of
another.

XLVIII

"That must be the bordj of Toudja, at last," Victoria said, looking
out between the curtains of her bassour. "Aren't you thankful, Saidee?
You'll feel happier and freer, when Cassim's men have gone back to
the Zaouïa, and our ransom has been paid by the return of the little
boy. That volume of your life will be closed for ever and ever, and you
can begin the next."

Saidee was silent. She did not want to think that the volume was closed
for ever, because in it there was one chapter which, unless it could
be added to the new volume, would leave the rest of the book without
interest for her. Half involuntarily she touched the basket which Honoré
Sabine had given her when they parted in the desert city of Oued Tolga
early that morning. In the basket were two carrier pigeons. She had
promised to send one from the Bordj of Toudja, and another at the end
of the next day's journey. After that she would be within reach of the
telegraph.

Her reason told her it was well that Sabine
was not with her now, yet she wished for him, and could not be glad
of his absence. Perhaps she would never see him again. Who could tell?
It would have been unwise for Sabine, as an officer and as a man, to leave
his duty to travel with her: she could see that, yet she was secretly
angry with Victoria, because Victoria, happy herself, seemed to have little
sympathy with her sister's hopes. The girl did not like to talk about
Sabine, or discuss any connection he might possibly have with Saidee's
future; and because Victoria was silent on that subject, Saidee revenged
herself by being reticent on others. Victoria guessed the reason,
and her heart yearned over Saidee; but this was something of which they
could not talk. Some day, perhaps, Saidee would understand, and they would
be drawn together again more closely than before.

"There's Toudja," Stephen said, as the girl looked out again from the
bassour. Whenever he saw her face, framed thus by the dark red curtains,
his heart beat, as if her beauty were new to him, seen that instant for the
first time. This was the flood-tide of his life, now when they travelled
through the desert together, he and she, and she depended upon his help
and protection.

For to-day,
and the few more days until the desert journey should come to an end
at Biskra, the tide would be at flood: then it would ebb, never to rise
again, because at Algiers they must part, she to go her way, he to
go his; and his way would lead him to Margot Lorenzi.

After
Algiers there would be no more happiness for him, and he did not
hope for it; but, right or wrong, he was living passionately in every moment
now.

Victoria smiled down from the high bassour at the dark, sunburnt face
of the rider. How different it was from the dark face of another rider
who had looked up at her, between her curtains, when she had passed
that way before! There was only one point of resemblance between the
two: the light of love in the eyes. Victoria could not help recognizing
that likeness. She could not help being sure that Stephen loved her,
and the thought made her feel safe, as well as happy. There had been
a sense of danger in the knowledge of Maïeddine's love.

"The tower in the bordj is ruined," she said, looking across the waving
sea of dunes to a tall black object like the crooked finger of a giant
pointing up out of the gold into the blue.

"It wasn't so when I passed before."

"No," Stephen answered, welcoming any excuse for talk with her.

"But
it was when we came from Touggourt. Sabine told me there'd been a
tremendous storm in the south just before we left Algiers, and the
heliograph tower at Toudja was struck by lightning. They'll build
it up again soon, for all these heliograph stations are supposed to
be kept in order, in case of any revolt; for the first thing a rebellious
tribe does is to cut the telegraph wires. If that happened, the only
way of communication would be by heliograph; and Sabine says that
from Touggourt to Tombouctou this chain of towers has been arranged
always on elevations, so that signals can be seen across great stretches
of desert; and inside the walls of a bordj whenever possible, for
defence. But the South is so contented and peaceful now, I don't suppose
the Government will get out of breath in its hurry to restore the
damage here."

At the sound of Sabine's name Saidee had instantly
roused to attention, and as Stephen spoke calmly of the peace and
content in the South, she smiled. Then suddenly her face grew eager.

"Did
the marabout appoint Toudja as the place to make the exchange, or
was it you?" she asked, over Victoria's shoulder. In recanting his published truth on the land question, he admitted
that, although the legal title to land was obtained by murder and dispossession of original
occupants, the matter was now too complicated to be dealt with. If this be so, if justice cannot
be done because of the difficulties in the way, then all hail to the simplicity and elemental
justice of a Red Revolution!...

"Yes, sometimes I feel like the crudest of the revolutionists, although I call myself a philosophical
anarchist. Sometimes the jails seem to yearn for my reception, and I question my right to be
at large. Nothing but a decreasing cowardice leaves me at liberty. And if I could not do more
for my soul behind the bars than I have done in front of them, then I am fit only for durance
vile. I, who have out-fasted the very flies till they fled my room, dread but one thing in
the life of a prison--that I should have no time for reflection and repose! but out of a born
anarchist it would make of me a compulsory Socialist, condemned to work for the State--a veritable
dungeon of disgrace.

"It is not so much that I love life, though as a rule the poor, who are so close to life, worship
it in a way that puts all other things to scorn. I know nothing that reaches farther up or
deeper down than this. It is only in the gutter that life is truly worshipped. And that is
why I search for my last faith there--in the gutter, whence all faith really springs.

"And yet to have faith even in the gutter is an act of deep imagination. In the rotting rooms
beneath me lives a worker with a family of six girls and one boy. Capitalism has crucified
his carcass for fifty years and now 'laid him off.' He has been looking for work for the last
month. I watch the insanity in his restless, aimless movements, and I feel desperate enough
to try to get him a job. Unfortunately, he does not drink; so his pipe, ever in his mouth,
is the only obstacle between him and the mad-house, or the poor-house. Every morning at six
o'clock, his sandwich dinner concealed in his pocket, he makes a brave show of walking away
briskly in his hopeless search for work; for there are too many younger men. His assumed activity
is only put on till he turns the first corner, for he tries to conceal his lameness and decrepitude,
especially from his wife, who strains her gaze after him. Just before starting off he takes
the superfluous precaution to put some shoe-blacking on his hair which shows white about the
temples. He comes back after a six hours' search, about noon, his neglected dinner still in
his pocket. He has tramped ten or twelve miles with no open shop for him. He does not blame
anyone, but regards it all as an accident that has happened to him in some unfortunate way.
He broods over this till I can see it in his eyes; but I don't dare say anything to him. He
is too old, and I might only make his trouble worse. If I were a sculptor I would put him before
the world in a material almost as hard and I hope more enduring than itself. His arms never
hang down by his side, but seem to be set in the position required by his last job, shovelling.
It reminds me of the time, thirty years ago, when I was laid off, and the madness first got
in and crouched behind my eyes....

"Yes, I suppose I am mad. It is true that if I cannot have the intellectual red that heralds
the approach of Dawn, then I want the red light of Terror that ushers in the Night. My feelings
have been clamouring for many years against my cowardly better judgment. I believe some day
they will break loose and throw me, as from a catapult, even up against the stone wall of atrocity
we call Society."

Thus the idealist becomes frenzied at times at the incredible difficulties in the way of a
total revolt against society, even against nature. We shall see how the absolute nature of
his anarchism led Terry further and further along the path of rejection, "passing up" one thing
after another, even letting anarchism as a social enthusiasm go by the board and making his
continued relation with a human being, even with Marie, a practical impossibility.

CHAPTER XI

The End of the Salon

Terry's love for Marie was partly due, as we have seen, to his passion for social propaganda:
that she represented the "social limit" was a strong charm to him. She, woman-like, always
insisted on the personal relation, and for a long time his interest in her personality as such,
combined with his social enthusiasm, was strong enough to keep the bond intact. When, however,
his social enthusiasm paled, and his merely individualistic anarchism became stronger, his
interest in Marie weakened. The times grew more frequent with him when he doubted the social
side of anarchism itself--when this social propaganda seemed as hollow and as unlovely as society
itself; and when he saw the weaknesses and vanities of his associates, how far they were from
realising any ideal. Then, more and more, he was thrown back upon himself, for as his hope
in the new society weakened, his hope in Marie as an embodiment of it weakened also.

Marie's sex interests, always freely and boldly expressed, played, at first, no part in the
growing irritability of their relations. Marie's occasional "affairs" with other men, sometimes
taking her away from the salon for a time, were taken by Terry in silence. Even when he came
face to face with the fact of Marie's absence of restraint in this respect, lack of delicacy
and feeling for him, he did not complain. To do so was against his principles of personal freedom;
and the fling in the face of society envolved in Marie's conduct pleased him rather than otherwise;
also there was in him a subtle feeling of superiority over other men, in the fact that he was
without physiological jealousy, or if not, that he could at least control it.

Even Marie's jealousy of him, whenever he was in the society of another woman, he took with
a patient shrug. Terry's interest in other women was not a passionate one: in it was always
an element of the pale cast of thought, and Marie had no real cause for jealousy. But Terry
tolerantly took it as a feminine weakness and tried to shield Marie from this unreasonable
unhappiness. On her account he gave up many a desire to talk intimately with some female comrade.
But Marie had no such tolerance for him. Not only was she quite free with other men and to
the limit, but she often went into a real tantrum of jealousy. One day she followed Terry all
over town, fearing that he had an appointment with a well-known radical woman. Marie often
acknowledged to me her inconsistency. "But, you know," she would say, "our principles and ideas
do not count much when our fundamental emotions are concerned."

This was a true remark of Marie's, and I have often had occasion to perceive the great degree
of it throughout the radical world. Men and women often try in that society to be tolerant;
they give one another free rein sometimes for years, but generally in the end, the resistance
of one or the other weakens; human nature or prejudice, whichever it is, asserts itself, and
tragedy results. This I had occasion to see over and over again: how nature triumphed over
the most resolute idealism and brought about in the end either ugly passion or pathetic unhappiness.

As Terry began to doubt his deepest hope, as he began to turn away from the ideas about which
his salon was formed, he saw and felt more clearly the limitations of Marie's personal character;
and her acts began to hurt him. Perhaps he began to lose faith in both--Marie and the Salon--at
the same time.

"I am afraid," he wrote, "that the days of the salon are numbered. I am of the opinion that
most of our latter-day radicals are on a par with our latter-day Christians. They have grown
weary, or wary, of their original purpose. They seem to think Liberty a beautiful goddess who
will never come: they willingly believe in her as long as there is no danger of or in her 'coming.'
How frantically most of the radicals signal back the 'waiting' reply: the track is not clear
for the coming of Liberty!--and they do not want to have it cleared!...

"You will be surprised to know that I have dropped the radicals, with the exception of Thomson,
and I fear he too must walk the plank and go by the board. I am becoming quite implacable toward
these intelligent people, and the salon will soon be void of my presence. The spirit of it
has gone already and cannot be revived. That is why I left my mother's home--because the spirit
of home had gone--and why I must leave the salon. I cannot submit to being a discordant spirit;
therefore I must be a wandering one.

"So I must leave Katie and Marie. If I could make a living I would work for it, as I did when
I thought so. But I shall never work--or toil rather--for sheer subsistence except behind the
bars. I am driven to be a parasite, for honest living there is none. The time is up, and I
must leave. Several years ago I ruined whatever robustness I had by tending bar so that Katie
might knock down some three hundred dollars. At one meal a day and a place to try to sleep,
I think that she and I are about even; she also thinks so, though she never says so, to me.
She is willing and able to take care of Marie, for she has five hundred dollars in the bank
and a great love for the girl."

Terry, sometimes terribly frank, is extremely reticent about Marie; and the account of their
misunderstanding comes mainly from her letters:

"I have had such a bad misunderstanding with Terry, or he with me, I don't know which it is.
My God, but women can be brutal, though! You ought to read Jack London's 'The Call of the Wild.'
You might substitute women for dogs. Some years ago I was a feast for the dogs (women), and
now I see much of this same fierce brutality in myself, and poor Terry is feeling it. I have
been away with a man, and Terry somehow feels it much more keenly than ever before.

"And yet I love Terry: surely if I ever knew what love means, I love him and have loved him
always. Though I am the most brutal person on earth, I am so without intention, without knowing
it even, at times. And I am so tired that sometimes I have no feeling for anything, not even
for Terry, and he does not understand that. I feel out of harmony with every one just now.
It is hardly indifference, rather a terrible weariness. Perhaps my recent reading of Nietzsche
has helped to give me a feeling of weary hopelessness. And then, too, the spirit of our salon
is gone; I don't know exactly why. Even Terry has changed very much in his feelings and ideas.
He is not much interested in the things he used to be absorbed in. He is more cynical, especially
of social science, and yet he seems to me to be making a very science of looking at things
unscientifically. He seems to be holding his emotions in check, is less impulsive than ever,
and is losing much of that delicacy of feeling and expression which was so admirable in him.

"I too am growing cynical, and I hate to do so. I should like to accept people at their apparent
value and not always look for motives, as I am getting more and more to do. I should like to
approach everything and everybody with a perfectly open heart, as a child does, but I find
that I no longer do that, that I am always prejudiced. I am sure that this is due to Terry's
influence, for he more and more excludes everything: nothing is good enough for him. He passes
up one person after another and he has no joy in life. His personality is so much stronger
than mine that I am like a little thin shadow, weaker than water, and he can always bring me
around to see his way of looking at people and things."

This note in Marie--protest against Terry's tendency to cut out the simple joy of life--grew
very strong at a later time; now, however, it was only suggested, and played no important part.

Indeed, the idea of his leaving her was to her an intolerable thought; and yet there is many
a letter which suggests the approaching dissolution of the salon and of their relation. They
were both, at times, terribly tired of life: with no strenuous occupation, the word of Nietzsche
and of world pessimism, of excessive individuality, tortured their nerves and made everything
seem of no avail.

Work takes one away from life, is a buffer between sensitive nerves and intensest experience.
Strong natures who for some reason are dislocated and therefore do not work, or work only fragmentarily,
come too much in contact with life and often cannot bear it; it burns and palls at once. So
it was with Terry and Marie. Without either work or children, they were forced into strenuous
personal relations with one another and into a feverish relation with "life."

"I feel so depressed," she wrote; "so many things have happened this last year which seemed
trivial at the time, but have had big results, while other things which seemed events have
turned out to be only incidents, and very small ones. Thus, a careless remark of mine resulted
in a quarrel between Terry and me which did not lessen with time, but grew larger and larger,
until now the relations of us two idyllic lovers are anything but pleasant. And a very serious
attack of love from which I suffered last summer has passed as quickly and lightly as a breath
of wind, while another light love of mine, which came to me last February, has assumed large
proportions simply because I have been abused for it by Terry, whom no one could ever displace
in my heart. I was bound to defend my lover from the attacks of Terry, whom I had always regarded
as above such a common display of irritation in such matters. So this other man became a sort
of ideal lover in my mind, and all because of Terry's opposition. This man had wooed me in
a great, glorious, godless fashion. He was a big man in the labour world, and he flattered
me immensely, but I should never have cared for him, if Terry's nature had not suddenly seemed
to weaken....

"I have been so uneasy about Terry lately. He has been talking so much about joining the criminal
class. He seems to be losing his interest in our movement and to be looking for some other
way of escape, as he calls it. He says his liberty is only a figment of his mind, that he has
now reached the time for which he had all along been unconsciously preparing himself. I am,
of course, used to this kind of talk from Terry. He has been in the depths of despondency often
enough, but nothing ever came of it except a saloon brawl. He would usually seek Harris; they
would break a mirror or a few glasses in some saloon, and the next day Terry would have a headache,
after which he was usually content to browse around his philosophy in that mild and subtle
way of his, for a week or so.

"But now Harris is gone, and Terry does not know any other person quite so strenuous in the
fine art of breaking glasses and barroom fixtures in general, so, finding no vent for his accumulated
despondency, he may possibly do real things. I feel so sadly for him and wish I could help
him. The Lord knows I would be willing to break any amount of glassware with him, but he has
not much confidence in my aim, I guess; women never can throw straight. In fact, he has little
confidence in me in any way lately, for he never tells me the details of his schemes, but only
throws out dark and terrible hints....

"Truly, something may indeed happen this time. He is so anti-social. He positively won't go
out anywhere to meet people, won't go to our picnics or socials, and in manner is very strange,
distant, cold, and polite to Katie and me. One would think he had been introduced to us just
five minutes before. Perhaps he thinks that Katie and I want him to go to work--common, vulgar
work, I mean, for Katie has lost her job and we are living in the most economical way, for
we don't know when another desirable job can be found. Now, Terry really ought to know that
I shouldn't have him work for anything in the world. I know that Katie has not said the least
word to him, but he is so terribly sensitive that perhaps he suspects what she may be thinking.

"Katie is despondent, too, and nearly makes me crazy talking of her life, past, present, and
future, in the most doleful way. Last night, after talking to me for two hours about the misery
of life, she made the startling proposal that she and I commit suicide. 'For,' said she, 'I
cannot see anything ahead of me but work, work, like a cart-horse, until I am dead. I'd rather
die now and be done with everything, and you had better come with me, for you haven't anything,
and if I went alone, what would become of you, such a poor helpless creature; see how thin
you are, I can almost look through your bones! Who would take care of you?'

"After talking in this strain for what seemed to me hours and hours, Katie went to bed and
to sleep, and then came Terry from his solitary walk--he usually goes for a walk if there are
any indications that Katie will do any talking--and entertained me by carelessly, carefully
hinting at one of his dark, mysterious plots. Then he, too, went to bed, and I, too, had forty
winks and seventy thousand nightmares."

But Marie, even in this growing strain, never failed in her love and admiration for the strange
man with whom she lived. On the heels of the above came the following:

"Terry is one of those characters who has not lost any of his distinct individuality. His is
a nature which will never become confounded or obliterated in one's memory. The instantaneous
impression of large soul, sincerity, and truthfulness he made upon me at our first meeting
has never left me. This impression must have been very strong, for generally these impressions
grow weaker, if people live together so closely as poor people must. All his faults, as well
as perhaps his virtues, come from the fact that he is not at all practical. In spite of his
experience, he does not know the world, and is a dreamer of dreams. His wild outbursts are
the result, I think, of his sedentary life. Sometimes we two remain at our home for weeks without
venturing out, without hardly speaking to each other, and then suddenly we burst out into the
wildest extravagances of speech!"

A few days later there was a wilder burst than ever, and Terry left the salon. Marie wrote:

"Last week we all had a row, and Terry has not been seen or heard of since. The last words
he uttered were that he should return for his belongings in a few days. I am dreadfully sorry
about it, especially that we could not have parted good friends. I realise and always shall
be sensible of the great good I had from him and shall always think of him with the best feeling
and greatest respect. The parting has not been a great surprise to me, for it really has been
taking place for a long time, ever since he withdrew his confidence from me, now months past,
and I have been acting with other men without his knowledge. Nothing mattered in our relation
but mutual confidence, but when that went, it was, I suppose, only a question of time. And,
at the same time that he withdrew spiritually from me, he seemed to lose his interest in the
movement, and grew more and more solitary and hopeless.

"I don't know what Terry is doing, or where he has gone, and I am uneasy. I would not fancy
this beautiful bohemian life alone with Katie, and I don't know what to do."

"Terry is still away," she wrote a few days later, "and my horizon looks bleak and lonely.
I want to be alone where I can collect my thoughts, but, even when Katie is out, I cannot think,
but sit by the window staring at the old women hanging up the clothes which everlastingly flap
on the lines tied between the poor old gnarled willow trees. Poor old trees, their fate has
been very like that of the old women. They bear their burden uncomplainingly, groan dolefully
in the wind, and shake their old palsied heads. Even the sparrows, true hoboes of the air,
disdain to seek shelter in their twisted arms. They will die as they have lived, withering away.

"I try to interest myself in household affairs, but that is so stale and unprofitable. Neither
can I read: my thoughts wander away and Terry intrudes himself constantly on my mind. I may
get so desperate that I will seek a job as a possible remedy: perhaps in that way I could get
tired enough to sleep....

"I have been trying to meet Terry, but he is as elusive as any vagrant sunbeam. I feel it would
do me a world of good to have a long heart-to-heart talk with him. If I could only see him
once a week and have him sympathise with me in a brotherly fashion and hear him say, in his
old way: 'Cheer up, Marie, the worst is yet to come,' I should be comparatively happy and satisfied."

Several more days passed, and with the lapse of time Marie's mood grew blacker. Her next letter
to me had a deep note of sorrow and regret and remorse:

"Terry has been away since August thirteenth. He came, while I was out, for his things. I fear
it is his farewell visit; for he has not shown the slightest disposition to meet me and talk
things over. I have tried in every way to see him again, but he has thus far ignored my existence.
I had an idea that we two were made for each other, but I have been an awful fool. Last February,
as you know, I had an affair, if it may be dignified by even that name, and just for the fun
of the thing I went with this light love to Detroit, and came home ill, as you already know.
I returned to Terry full of love and regret and most properly chastened by my illness and disappointment;
for other men almost always disappoint me. But I found him positively beastly. The way he abused
that poor man was terrible, and I had to defend him, for I know that Terry was unjust to him.
I begged him to blame me, not the other man, for it was all my doing, but that only made matters
worse.

"I know that some people can conceal their obnoxious qualities and show only the sweet and
lovely side of themselves. I sometimes like to see the reverse side of the medal, and I expected
Terry, as a student of humanity and an anarchist, to welcome any phase of character which might
enable him to understand me more completely.

"I must hesitate in attributing Terry's attitude to jealousy, for I have had some affairs before,
and he never seemed to care about them in the least; indeed, I often felt piqued, and thought
he did not mind because he did not care about me enough. The following two weeks were, I can
truly say, the most infernal and awful that ever happened to me, and I wished thousands of
times that I might die, and I did come very close to it. I cannot describe that hellish time
or give you any idea of Terry's conduct during those weeks. He was no longer the calm, philosophical
Terry that you know, but the most terribly cruel thing the mind of man can conceive.

"Now, I know these are strong words, and I don't know if you can imagine Terry that way, or
if you can believe me when I say it is so. I have thought of it so many times, and I have come
to the conclusion that perhaps while I was away, he and Harris had a great debauch together
and that Terry must have taken some dope which unbalanced him for a while."

I do not think it needs "dope" to explain Terry's conduct. Marie, perhaps, could not understand
the possible cruelty of a disappointed idealist. When Terry began to see that neither the anarchists
nor Marie would ultimately fit into his scheme of things, when his idealistic hope began to
break against the hard rocks of reality, he was capable, in his despair, of any hard, desperate,
and cruel act.

Marie continued:

"During this awful time I did not blame Terry, dope or no dope. I considered it all coming
to me, and even wished it would keep on coming until it killed. But I made up my mind right
then and there that if it was fated that I should keep in the game, there should be no more
'affairs' for me. And so help me God I have not had any from that time--six months ago--till
the day Terry left me. And that other man's name has not once passed my lips in Terry's presence,
and when it was mentioned by others when he and I were there, I grew dizzy and sick.

"In time, these dreadful things were thought of as little as might be, and Terry and I became
excellent, though platonic friends, a novel and fascinating relation, wherein sex had no part.
Night after night have we sat around this table, discussing books and people, trying to penetrate
the mystery of things strange and new to us. I should rather say that he talked, and I was
his eager listener. Often, after tossing restlessly on our pillows, when no sleep would come
'to weight our eyelids down,' the rest of the night would be spent in reciting poetry, the
inevitable cigarette in one hand, the other gesticulating in the most fanciful and fervid manner.
He would recite in passionate whispers--so as not to awaken Katie--for hours at a time, poems
from Shakespeare to Shelley, and Verlaine to Whitman, poems tender and sweet, bitter and ironical
and revolutionary, just as the mood suited him. His feeling for poetry and nature seemed to
grow as his hope for human society grew less.

"So our relations were ideally platonic--the kind you read about in books. Nevertheless, some
of the old bitterness remained in Terry's heart, for at times he became depressed and melancholy
and so sensitive about the least little thing that I was nervous and in hot water all the time
for fear I might inadvertently say or do something to hurt him or make him angry. I admit I
am not as placid as I look, and Katie, too, is very inflammable, so you can understand how
tense the atmosphere was at times.

"Not very long ago, at the breakfast table one Sunday morning, I urged Terry to come to a meeting
of the 'radicals,' adding that he was becoming a regular hermit and that it would do him good
to have more social pleasure. He turned on me savagely, called me a hypocrite, and a contemptible
one at that, and made a few more remarks of the kind. After a few days of strained politeness
on both sides I made bold to ask him for some explanation--and I have got it coming yet!

"These are just the facts. I don't go into all the little details of our many little vulgar
rows, about the most trivial things. I am sure, if Terry writes you about this, that his innate
delicacy would never permit him to go into these sordid details, too many of which I have perhaps
told you. But I am made of rougher stuff than he. I am never quite as unreasonable as he can
be at times, but I am commoner."

Terry did, indeed, express himself in a much more laconic way about the quarrel, than Marie.
On the day he left, August thirteenth, he wrote me the following note:

"The premonition in my last letter is fulfilled: the salon knows me no more."

A later talk I had with both Katie and Terry throws light upon the precipitating cause of Terry's
departure on the thirteenth of August. It was due to Terry's sensitiveness about his money
relationship to Katie. On that morning Terry was asleep on the couch, when Katie got up, made
breakfast, and she and Marie asked Terry to join them. 

Uli's master urges him to refuse the invitation to play on the team;
but the malicious neighbor talks him over.

Though the Potato Hollowers use all their skill and cunning, even to cheating
the umpire, they lose the game by one point; they must set up the
dinner, which ends in a free fight.

A victory in this comforts Potato Hollow somewhat.

But two of the Brandywiners claim damages, and the local players are
afraid of severe judgment if it comes to trial, it being not the first
offense.

They agree to a plan, devised by the malicious neighbor, to let the entire penalty fall on Uli's head,
so that they can go scot-free.

Uli is to confess himself the guilty party, and in return for this
service the others, all wealthy farmers' sons, will reimburse him
for all expenses and give him a handsome bonus besides.

Uli's master overhears his neighbor talking to Uli, decides to interfere,
and points out to him the noose into which he is running his head.

He advises Uli to demand a written promise, signed by all, that they
will do what has been agreed upon.

Uli brings home the written promise and shows it to his master; it turns
out to be nothing but a certificate that Uli is the guilty party.

Uli is in consternation; but the master promises to help him out if
he will abide by his word in the future.

Accordingly, Johannes
meets the scheming neighbor and advises him to have the other players
settle up and leave Uli in peace, or else Uli may have occasion to show
the paper to the governor.

Uli hears nothing more about the affair.]

CHAPTER VII

HOW THE MASTER
KINDLES A FIRE FOR THE GOOD SEED

[The author points out the disastrous
consequences of giving the servants on a farm only unheated rooms
to live in, and no access to the warm house; on Sundays they seek
warmth in the public-houses or elsewhere, and terrible immorality
results.

Uli feels the need of a warm room to sit in, and the master invites
him into the house.

The maids are at first much put out, and the mistress too; but the
master upholds Uli, and gradually the new custom wins favor and results
in a betterment of all the servants.]

CHAPTER VIII

A SERVANT BECOMES
PROSPEROUS AND SOON THE SPECULATORS APPEAR

[Uli becomes quite settled
in steady habits, and soon has a nice little sum of money in hand.

But others get wind
of it, and they borrow various sums of him, promising to pay back at
a certain time with interest. Soon Uli's money is all gone, but he exults
in the thought of his interest. When the time for payment comes the debtors
make excuses; and as time goes on and no money is forthcoming, Uli
becomes anxious.

At length the master notices his distress,
finds out the trouble, and helps him to recover most of what he had
lent, admonishing him hereafter to put his savings in the bank.]

CHAPTER
IX

ULI GAINS PRESTIGE AND IMPRESSES GIRLS

[Uli's improvement proceeds
steadily, and his self-respect with it.

The two maids are greatly impressed by him, and both set their caps for him. Stini, the elder,
is very ugly and cross-grained, but a good worker and very thrifty.
Yrsi, on the other hand, is pretty and sweet-tempered, but lazy and
heedless, and wants a husband so as to avoid working.

Jealously the two watch each other's attempts to catch Uli, who is
drawn now to Yrsi's prettiness, now to Stini's thrift.

Their jealousy finally becomes so
furious that Uli begins to cool off, which only makes them the more
eager.

Yrsi plans a master-stroke: she uncovers
the liquid manure-pit, and Stini tumbles into it.

When she is finally hauled out, not without difficulty and amid the gibes of the other servants, she falls like
a tigress upon her rival, and the two roll in the dirt and become
such a reeking ball of filth that no one ventures to touch them to
pull them apart.

But Uli has had enough of them both and is entirely cured, though
not of his desire for marriage.]

CHAPTER X

HOW ULI SELLS A COW AND
ALMOST GETS A WIFE

[Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he sells
at a good profit.

On the
way home he encounters the daughter of a neighbor, struggling with
four little pigs.

She begs his assistance, and as they go along she gives him a glowing
account of her father's prosperity and the size of her dowry. She
invites him into a tavern on the way, and they take some refreshment
together.

Then she goes on about herself--how strong she is, and how much work
she can do, and what a good catch she would make.

Uli cannot
get in a word edgewise, but is mightily impressed by her imposing
vigor and her father's wealth, so that he goes home with his head
in a whirl.

The master and his wife are pleased with
Uli's success, and the master hands over to Uli the profit he has
made on the cow.

Uli asks the master about the neighbor's Katie, saying that he thinks
she would have him.

The master, however, strongly dissuades him, pointing out that Katie
might make a good field-hand, but not a good wife.

She can make hay, but not soup; and there is not so much wealth, for the farm is badly managed. The
boys will get the land, and the girls can take the leavings, which
will not amount to very much.

Besides, the girls are spoiled and will not know what to do on a small farm,
after being used to a big one; and if Uli stays there he will simply
be a servant without pay.

Uli sees that the master is right, and decides to think no more of the matter.]

CHAPTER
XI

HOW DESIRES TAKE FORM IN A SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES
THEM

[Uli gradually reaches something like perfection, and his savings
amount to a handsome sum.

But the money seems to come too slowly, and he begins
to feel impatient. The master is at first vexed, but sees that he
must either pay Uli what will satisfy him, or let him go. Uli suggests
buying or renting something, but the master will not hear to it;
Uli has too little money for that.

Then one autumn the master goes to market and encounters there a
cousin, Joggeli, who has come, he says, to see Johannes.

Joggeli
tells his troubles: he and his wife are getting old and decrepit,
and can no longer look after their large farm as formerly.

Their son Johannes has become too stuck-up for the farm and now runs
a tavern; their daughter is good for nothing, incompetent and lazy.

The overseer whom he has had for eleven years has been cheating him
right and left, and the other servants are hand in glove with him.

Joggeli desires a new overseer, a first-class man on whom he can depend; he would pay as high
as a hundred crowns if he could find what he wants. Johannes recommends
Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him.

He does his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none. Johannes
and his wife are both reluctant to let Uli go, but they think it
is for his good, and so Uli is induced to hire out to Joggeli for
sixty crowns, two pairs of shoes, four shirts, and tips.

All hearts are heavy as New Year's approaches, when the change is to be made. The master himself plans
to drive Uli over to his new place.]

CHAPTER XII

HOW ULI LEAVES
HIS OLD PLACE AND REACHES HIS NEW ONE

On the following morning the
sleigh was made ready and the box fastened on it, and Uli had to breakfast
with the family in the living-room--coffee, cheese, and pancakes.

When the horse was harnessed Uli could scarcely go, and when at last the time came, and he stretched out his
hand to his mistress and said, "Good-bye, mother, and don't be angry with me," the tears rushed
to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her apron to her
eyes, saying, "I don't know what for; I only hope you'll get along
well.

But if you don't like it come back any time, the sooner the better."
The children would scarcely let him go; it seemed as if his heart
would break when the master finally told them to let loose, that they
must start if they wanted to get there today, and it wouldn't be the
last time they were to see each other; but that now there was no help
for it.

When they drove away the mistress kept wiping her eyes for a long time,
and had to comfort the children, who, it seemed, could not stop weeping
and lamenting.

In silence the two men drove over the gleaming snow.

"Steady!"
the master had to say occasionally, when the wild Blazer struck into a gallop,
pulling the light sleigh along like the wind and kicking the snow high in the
air. "It distresses me," said Uli, "and more and more, the nearer we
get; it's so hard for me!

I can't believe that I'm not running into misfortune; it seems as
if it was right ahead of me."

"That's natural," said the master, "and I wouldn't take that as a
bad omen.

Think: nearly ten years ago, when you were a ne'er-do-well and I started
you going right, how hard it was for you to do better, and how little
faith you had in the possibility that everything would turn out right.

But still it did, gradually. Your faith got stronger, and now you're
a lad that can be said to have won his battle.

So don't be distressed; what you've got before you now is all the easier for it, and the worst
thing that can happen is that you'll come back to me in a year.

Just keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly suspicious;
but once he's taken your measure, you can put up with him.

You'll have the worst time with
the other servants; go easy with them, little by little, and in kindness
as long as you can; then if that's no good, speak right up so that
you'll know where you are--I wouldn't like a year of that sort of
thing myself."

It was a bright, clear January day as they drove through handsome fields, then
between white fences and glittering trees, toward Slough Farm. This property
lay perhaps ten minutes' walk from Uefligen, was over a hundred acres
in size and very fruitful, but not all in one piece; some fields and
one grass-meadow lay at some distance.

In wet years it might be swampy in spots, but that could be managed.

As they drove up, Joggeli came stumping on a stick around the house,
which stood on rather low ground, and said that he had been looking for
them for a long time, and had almost thought they weren't coming;
he had become impatient.

He shouted toward the barns, which were built against the house,
for some one to come and take the horse.

No one came. Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to take Blazer.

"Why, is nobody here?"

Nobody came.

Then the old man
went angrily to the stable and pulled the door open, and there was
the carter calmly currying horses. "Don't you hear when you're called?"
cried Joggeli.

"I didn't hear anything."

"Then prick up your ears and come and take the horse."

He'd have to make room for it first, growled the fellow, and shot in among his horses like a hawk
in a pigeon-house, so that they dashed at their mangers and kicked, and Uli only by constant "Whoas" and at risk
of life got Blazer into the last stall. There he could find no halter
for a time.

"Should have brought one," was the carter's remark.

When Uli went back to the sleigh and untied his box, the wood-cutters
were to help him carry it; but for a long time none stirred.

Finally they dispatched the boy, who let the handle go when they were on the stairs, so that Uli
almost tumbled down backward and only owed it to his strength that he did not. The room to which
he was shown was not bright, was unheated, and provided with two beds. He stood in it somewhat
depressed, until they called to him to come down and get something
warm to eat.

Outside, a cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and
eyes, red and white as to cheeks, with kissable lips, blinding white
teeth, tall and strong, yet slender in build, with a serious face
behind which lurked both mischief and good nature.

And over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something,
that always testifies to inward and outward purity, to a soul which
hates the unclean and whose body therefore never becomes unclean,
or never seems so even in the dirtiest work.

Freneli--this was the girl's name--was a poor relation, who had never
had a home and was always treated like Cinderella, but always shook
off the ashes--a girl who was never dimmed outwardly or inwardly,
but met God and men and every new day with fresh and merry laughter,
and hence found a home everywhere and made a place for herself in
all hearts, however they might try to resist her; therefore she was
often dearly loved by her relatives even while they fancied they hated
her, casting her out because she was the offspring of an illicit intercourse
between an aristocratic relative and a day-laborer.

Freneli had not opened the door. When Uli came out the brown eyes
rapidly swept over him, and quite seriously Freneli said, "I suppose
you're the new overseer; they want you to come down and get something
warm to eat."

There was no need, said Uli, they had eaten something on the way.

None
the less he followed the fleet girl to the living-room in silence.
In it Joggeli and Johannes were already sitting at the table, half
hidden by smoking meat, both fresh and salted, sauerkraut and dried
pears.

A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped her hand on her
apron, Held it out to him, and said, "Are you the new overseer?

Well, well, if you're as good as you are handsome, it'll be all right, I don't doubt. Sit down
and eat, and don't be bashful; the food's there to be eaten."

On the stove bench there sat yet another form, lean, with a white
face and pale, lustreless eyes; she acted as if she were paying no heed
to anything, but had a pretty box before her, and was winding blue
silk from one ball to another.

Joggeli was telling about the time he had had with the last overseer, and what he had had to stand
since then, and how it seemed to him that it had been much worse than he
could remember now.

"All the torment such a fellow can make you, and you can't string him
up for it--it's not right, I swear. It didn't use to be so; there was
a time when they hanged everybody that stole as much as would pay for
the rope. That was something like, but all that's changed. It's enough
to make you think the bad folks have nothing but their own kind in
the government, the way it lets 'em get away.

Why, we don't even hang the women that poison their husbands any more. Now, I'd like to know what's worse,
to break the law by killing somebody, or by letting him live; it looks to me as if one was as bad as
the other. And then it seems to me that if those who ought to maintain
the law are the ones to break it, they deserve no forgiveness of
God or men.

Then I think we ought to have the right to put 'em where they belong,
instead of having to pay 'em besides."

During this long speech of Joggeli's, which he fortunately delivered inside
his four walls, as otherwise it might easily have brought down upon
him an action for high treason, his wife kept constantly saying to
Johannes and especially to Uli, "Take some more, won't you, that's
what it's for; or don't you like it?

We give what we've got--it's bad enough; but at least we don't grudge
it to you.

(Joggeli, do fill up the glasses; look, they're empty.) Drink, won't
you, there's more where that came from.

Our son gave us the wine; they say it's good; he bought it himself down
in Italy; it actually cost fivepence halfpenny the quart, and not too
full a quart at that." When Uli did not wish to take any more the old
woman still kept putting food before him, stuck the fork into the
largest pieces and then thrust them off on his plate with her thumb,
saying, "Ho, you're a fine fellow if you can't get that down too;
such a big lad must eat if he wants to keep his strength, and we're
glad to give it to him; whoever wants to work has got to eat.

Take some more, do."

But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap,
prayed, and stood up to go. "Stay awhile," said Joggeli; "where are you
going? They'll look after your Blazer, I gave 'em strict orders."

"Oh,
I'd like to go out and look around a bit and see how I like it,"
said Uli.

"Go then; but come back when you get cold; you're not to work today,
do you hear," said the mother.

"He'll have something to live through," said Joggeli, "they hate like
poison to have him come, and I think the carter would have liked to be
overseer. But I don't care if they are against each other. It's never good
to have the servants on too good terms; it always comes out of the
master."

"Ho," said Johannes, "that's as you take it. If the servants are on
one side and the master on the other, then he has a hard time and
can't do anything.

But when the servants are all against each other, and each one does his best
to vex the others, and one won't help another--that's bad for the master
too; for after all in the end everything hits the master and his interests.
I think it's a true saying that peace prospers, discord destroys.

I don't
just like it here.

Nobody came to take the horse; nobody wanted to help Uli with his
box; each one does as he likes, and they don't fear anybody.

Cousin, that won't be good.

I must tell you, Uli won't stay here under those conditions. If he's to be overseer and have the responsibility,
he wants order too; he won't let 'em all do as they please. Then there'll
be a fuss; it will all come back on him, and if you don't back him up he'll
run off.
 Two friends, both newspaper
men, managed to eliminate the most objectionable parts of Terry's terroristic utterances from
their respective papers, and Terry's sister, the lawyer, one sergeant of police, and the ferocious
but humane Tim Quinn did the rest. For the present, therefore, Terry's desire to be acquainted
with the inside of a prison, or otherwise to suffer for the cause which he still half-heartedly
believes in, is frustrated.

"To me the most important aspect of the lecture was that he prepared it in our home. So, for
another week, we enjoyed one another's company; and after the lecture he not only went home
with me, as I have said, but he has remained ever since. I am trying not to build up any more
hopes on this, because I know that Terry has been in a particularly reckless mood, and does
not care much where he is. I am sorry that he could not find a better outlet for his mood than
lecturing for the Social Science League, but that perhaps is a better and more harmless way
than getting in with the criminals, as he has wanted to do so often of late. You may be sure,
however, that his talk on the platform will not be forgotten, and should anything happen, in
any way like the McKinley affair, for instance, I am sure things would be made very unpleasant
for him. So I hope nothing will happen.

"Terry is really harmless. He expends all of his energy in desiring and thinking and talking,
and has nothing left over for action. Whenever he had any scheme in mind I did not like, I
used to encourage him to talk about it, knowing that he thus would be satisfied, without acting.
He lives almost altogether in the head and in the imagination, and is really a teacher, in
his own peculiar way, rather than an actor or practical man. That is why he takes offence at
what seems to me such little things: they are not little to him, in his scheme of things, which
is not the scheme of the world, and, alas! not even mine, I fear. He is so terribly alone,
and growing more so, and I feel so awfully sorry for him.

"Especially since our rupture I have been compelled to be so careful not to hurt his feelings
or trespass on his ideas of right and wrong; for he imagines he can feel what I am thinking
and feeling, even if no words are said. He says words only conceal thought and do not express
it. At times I feel so oppressed and depressed that I should experience the keenest ecstasy
if I could hurt him in some physical way, use my muscles on him until I were exhausted. In
imagination I sometimes know the fierce delight and exaltation of my flesh and spirit in hurting
this man whom I love, in hurting him morally and physically--and I feel the lightness of my
heart as the accumulated burden of my repression rolls away in the wildest, freest sensations.

"Of course, I have only felt this way at times; and at those times I know I was very passionate
and unreasonable. I had regular fits of jealousy and anger, but at other times I had a boundless
pity for him, there was something so pathetic about his gestures and his voice when he told
me he knows just how I feel about him, that I could have cried out with the ache of my heart.
It was so terrible to see how he suffered in his heroic attempt to suffice unto himself, to
defy the world. He tries to think and feel deeper and higher than anyone else, but this is
a terrible, terrible strain. It is all fearfully sad, and sometimes I wish I had never known him."

About his speech, Terry wrote:

"I am one of the by-products that do not pay just now, until some process comes along and sets
the seal of its approval on me. Just now I am deemed worse than useless, and since my speech
on 'The Lesson of the Haymarket Riot' the authorities are looking for a law that will deport
me. This will suit me, as I will swear that I am a citizen of no man's land. What I really
need is not deportation, but solitary confinement, for the sake of my meditations. For even
with my scant companionship I feel as if I were a circus animal. I still clutch convulsively
to the idea that thought is the only reality and all expression of it merely a grading down
of what was most high. If I am shut up I must cease talking and may think about real things,
that is, ideal things. That would help me to put up with the world, which cannot put up with
me unless I am in cold storage. There is a mental peace which passeth all understanding, and
perhaps I might find that peace in prison. I have been insidiously poisoning my own mind for
some time, and unless I can stop this I had better cease from talking, which does not seem
to purge me of my unconscious pose, and retire to solitude behind the prison bars. There, undisturbed,
I can meditate and often remember peacefully the beautiful things I have known in literature
and nature. Beauty is like rain to the desert, it is rare, but it vanishes only from the surface
of things, and deep down who knows what secret springs it feeds? As my sands run out, the remembrance
of the brief beauty I have known will break over me like the pleasant noise of far-off Niagara
waters on the stony desert of my life.

"I once thought that I could help the mob to organise its own freedom. But now I see that we
are all the mob, that all human beings are alike, and that all I or anyone can do is to save
his own soul, to win his own freedom, and perhaps to teach others to do the same, not so much
through social propaganda as by digging down to a deeper personal culture. Though I sometimes
think that just now the prison would help me, yet I also long at times to talk to the crowd.
I wish to tell the smug ones that we waste our lives in holding on to things that in our hearts
we hold contemptible. I wish to tell the mob just why there are thirty thousand steady men
out of work in this city: to do this I may take to the curbstone."

After his speech Terry returned to the home of Katie and Marie, as has been described by Marie,
but on no basis of permanence. He thus speaks of it:

"You may think that I, too, have 'cashed in' my ideals; for I am back at the Salon--for how
long nobody knows--by special proxy request of Katie. I will spare myself and you any moralising
on my relapse."

Katie, explaining Terry's return, said: "When he went away, Marie was sad all the time. She
could not eat nor sleep and was looking for her lover every day. After weeks had passed I said
to her: 'When you see Terry at the Social Science League, bring him home.' 'Do you mean it,
Katie?' asked Marie, her eyes sparkling. She did so, and Terry went quietly into his room,
and the next morning I made coffee as usual and Terry came out, and it was all right; it might
have been all right for good, if this damned Nietzsche business had not come up." But that
is anticipating.

It was after Terry's return that the famous miner Haywood, just after his acquittal from the
charge of murder in connection with the Idaho labour troubles, visited Chicago, and spent most
of his time at the Salon with Terry and Marie and several of their friends. The Salon was temporarily
revived, like the flash in the pan, under Haywood's stimulating influence. Terry wrote of him:

"Haywood has the stern pioneer pride of the West. There is a mighty simplicity about him. He
is Walt Whitman's works bound in flesh and blood. He is a man of few words, and of instinctive
psychic force, and is the big blond beast of Nietzsche. He knows just what he is doing and
why, and has a great influence on the crowd: the mob went wild at his mere presence, and after
his brief speech he came absolutely to be one of them. The swaying mass becomes, at his touch,
in close contact with their instinctive leader. He is too much in touch with the people to
agree with narrow trades-union policies. At a secret meeting in this city with Mitchell and
Gompers he hinted that the Western Federation of Miners would amalgamate with the American
Federation of Labour on the ground of no trade agreements and the open shop, and warned them
that no man and no organisation was strong enough to stand in the way of this development.
The Socialist party made him a big offer, but he replied that the Labour movement was big enough
for him."

Of Haywood, Marie wrote: "He is a giant in size, but as gentle as the most delicate woman.
He has only one eye, but that a very good one which does not miss things. He has been made
into a regular hero by the people here, but he is the most modest man I have ever met. He is
sincere and unassuming, so calm, with no heroic bluster about him. His voice is quiet and gentle.
We had a blow-out for him, and all those present were very discreet. We all forgot our years
and our troubles and we showed him a good time. I hardly think that even you, with all your
democracy, could have stood for all the things that happened. Haywood is a big, good-natured
boy, but quite sentimental, too. I think he liked me pretty well. I am sure he could have won
many much more attractive girls than I, but somehow he took to me right from the start. I was
introduced to him along with a whole bunch of girls, all good-lookers, too, but I sat back
quietly and was the only one who did not say nice things to the hero."

CHAPTER XIII

Marie's Failure

Though Terry was back in what was formerly the Salon, and though the old spirit seemed at times
to be still alive, yet it was more in appearance than in reality. It is difficult to regain
an emotional atmosphere once lost; and it is especially difficult to live by the gospel of
freedom, when once the eloquence of that gospel is no longer deeply felt. Then there is nothing
left to take its place--no prosaic sense of duty, no steady habit, no enduring interest in
work. As these two human beings drifted further and further apart from their common love and
their common interest, the idealistic man became more self-centred, more unsocial, more fiercely
individual, and the emotional and sensual woman became more self-indulgent, more hostile to
any philosophy--anarchism such as Terry's, with its blighting idealism--which limited her simple
joy in life and in mere existence.

So their quarrels became more brutal, more abrupt. Both intensely nervous, both highly individualised,
their characters conflicted with the intensity of two real and opposing forces. A tragic aspect
of it all was that it was due to Terry's teaching that Marie attained to the highly individualised
character which was destined to rebel against the finally sterilising influence of her master.
Even physical violence became part of their life, and words that were worse than blows. The
strong bond which still lingered held them for a time together, notwithstanding what was becoming
the brutality of their relations. One day Marie called Terry to his coffee and he refused.
A quarrel followed, in the course of which she hit Terry on the head with a pitcher, and the
resulting blood was smeared over them both. When calm came again she said to him:

"Terry, how can we live together?"

"Ain't we living together? Doesn't this prove it?" he replied, grimly.

And this man would use violence in return--and this was the delicate idealist, the idealist
whose love for Marie had at one time been part and parcel of his high dreams for humanity and
perfection, a part of his propaganda, a part of his hope: during which period he had been scrupulous
not to use force of any kind, spiritual or physical, on the girl whom he doubly loved--the
girl whom he held in his arms every night for years with a passionate tenderness due to his
feeling of her physical fragility and her social unhappiness, rather than to any other instinct.

"Marie," he said, "did not fully understand the character of my love for her. She loved me
intellectually and sensually, but not with the soul. She wanted my ideas, and sex, and more
sex, but not the invisible reality, the harmony of our spirits. From the day that I fully understood
this, my confidence in her and in all things seemed to go. She felt that I had withdrawn something
from her, and it made her harder. She began cruelly to fling the amours that I had tolerated
as long as I hoped for the spiritual best in my face. It was a kind of revenge on her part."

Practical troubles, too, lent their disturbing element to the little remaining harmony of the
three.

"We shall probably be forced to leave our rooms in a short time," wrote Marie. "Our landlord
has asked us to leave, without giving any other reasons than that he wanted a smaller family
in these most desirable rooms! Terry is indignant, for we have been quiet and orderly, and
Katie has always paid the rent in advance. We shall certainly stay until the police come and
carry us out and our household goods with us.

"It is true that we have had unusual difficulty in paying the rent and in getting enough to
eat and smoke; and this has not added to our good-nature. You have no doubt read about the
'money stringency' in this country. Times are indeed very hard, thousands of men are out of
a job, and the so-called criminals are very much in evidence. For a long time Katie could not
find work to do and could not get any of her money from the bank, so that things looked very
'bohemian' around here for a while. She could not get anything to do in her own line, and finally
had to go out to 'service.' But this she could not stand more than a week, for Katie has fine
qualities and is used to a certain amount of freedom, so she couldn't stand the slavishness
of the servant life, though she had good wages and nice things to eat, which Katie likes very much.

"When Katie started in on this venture she had the proverbial thirty cents, which she divided
up with me--Terry had not returned from his wanderings at that time--and I recklessly squandered
ten cents of this going to and returning from the Social Science League. In a day or two there
was nothing edible in our house but salt, so I squandered my remaining nickel for bread. I
made that loaf last me nearly four days: I ate only when I was ravenously hungry, so that it
would taste good, for I hate rye bread. I slept a good deal of the time. I suffered terribly,
though, when my tobacco gave out, and I spent most of my time and energy hunting old stumps,
and I found several very good ones in the unswept corners and under the beds. I even picked
some out of the ashcan. These I carefully collected, picked out the tobacco and rolled it in
fresh papers, as carefully as any professional hobo."

When Katie was temporarily hard up, that naturally put Terry and Marie "on the bum." But they
remained "true blue" and did not go to work, Marie being willing to put up with all sorts of
discomfort rather than try for a job. She continued:

"It is a strange thing that nobody came to our house during these six days. But on the sixth
day, Terry came, and then I had a good square meal, and he even left me carfare and some of
the horrible stuff he calls tobacco. Two more days elapsed before Katie returned. Until then
I lived on that square meal. I had ten cents from Terry, but I was sick of rye bread. On the
day that Katie returned, in fact only a few hours before, I was foolish enough to visit an
anarchist friend, Marna. I was awfully lonely and thought a little change would do me good.
So I went to Marna, but got there a little too late for supper. I must admit I was hungry.
I hinted to Marna that I was, said I'd been in town all day, and things like that, but she
did not catch on and I was stubborn and wouldn't ask. Stephen was there, and for a moment I
thought I might eat. He had not had his supper, and he said that if Marna was not too tired
to cook, he would go and buy a steak. I tell you, the thought of that steak was awfully nice
and I had to put my handkerchief to my mouth to keep the water from flowing over. I offered
to cook it for him, but he passed it up. I made one more desperate bluff and asked him if he
would get some beer for us! And I reached for my purse, and for one wild moment I thought sure
he had called my bluff and would really take my only nickel, my carfare home. I nearly fell
over with suspense, but in the nick of time he went out, refusing my money. And I even taunted
him, asked him if he thought it was tainted!

"When the beer came, I drank most of it. Beer is a great filler, but of course it went straight
to my head and feet--that is, my head got light and my feet heavy. But I managed to navigate
to the street car and so on home, where I found Katie, a cheerful fire and a delicious smell
of cookery and coffee.

"Now, I must make you a confession. During these six days I had some thoughts of working, the
only thing I could think of being a job as a waitress. But when a vision of ham and pert females
and more impertinent males came to me my courage oozed away, and I did not even try. I don't
think I'll ever work again. Did you ever read Yeats' story 'Where There is Nothing?'

"I love Marna, as you know, but when she talks to me about 'work,' 'health,' and the like,
I feel like becoming even more solitary than I am. She says I am not ambitious! Ye gods, I
think I am ever so much more ambitious than she! I am more ambitious to live in these little
squalid rooms than in the mansions of the rich. My kind of happiness--I mean ideally--is not
Marna's kind; and I am sure now that if I ever find it, it will be in the slums. Here I can
sit and muse, undisturbed by the ambition of the world. Blake comes to me as an indulgent father
to his tired and fretful child and sings to me his sunflower song. If I were in a castle I
don't think even Blake could soothe my restless spirit.

"But, unfortunately, even in the slums one needs to eat. Without warning I tumble from my air
castles because some horrible monster gnaws at me, and will not let me be, however much I try
to ignore him. That mean, sneaking thing is hunger. And because I am only mortal, and because
the will to live is stronger than I, I must eat my bread. I often cry when I think of this
contemptible weakness. I have often tried to overcome this annoying healthiness of my body.
How can people be gourmands? Even Shelley and Keats had to eat. What a repulsive word 'eat'
is! I would I could eat my heart and drink my tears. The world is what it is because we must
eat. See the whole universe eating and eating itself, over and over! If it were not for this
fearful necessity, Terry and I should not, perhaps, have failed in our high attempt! If Terry
and Katie and I had never had this need, we might have become angels of virtue and insight.
But on account of this we never could really attain freedom; that embittered our souls and
turned us at times viciously against each other."

Terry's growing jealousy, which seemed to surprise Marie, was a sign of the weakening of his
philosophy, as far as it was social and not purely individual. It may seem strange that after
his real love for her appeared to pass, his jealousy increased; but this was due to several
causes: if his social interest in her--his propagandist interest--had continued, her sexual
license would have continued to feed his passion for social protest. But when Marie had ceased
to interest him as a "case," or a "type," or a "victim," the only bond remaining must be that
of the pure individual soul or of the body. Terry's lack of sensuality--his predominating spiritual
and mental character--precluded any strong tie of the physical kind. So there remained, as
a possible tie, only a close spiritual relation between two individuals, a soul bond--and this
Marie's character and conduct tended to prevent. Terry, if they were to be together, saw that
the deeper personal relation must exist, now that there was no other--and so he was jealous
of any conduct which showed in Marie a lack of sensibility for the deeper spiritual life; hence
the physiological jealousy, which he had not felt, or had controlled at one time, showed itself.
No doubt his increasing nervousness was an added reason--nervousness due to the long strain,
physical and mental, which his life and social experiment had involved.

During these last weeks Marie had another lover, and was especially careless in not concealing
any of its manifestations. She, too, on her side, was subject to greater and greater strain.
Terry's growing loneliness and austerity, his melancholy and unsociability, his negative philosophy,
all this tended more and more to inhibit her natural young joy in life and to give it violent
expression. The philosophy of anarchism had increased her natural leaning to the free expression
of her moods and passions, and now, with weakened nervous resources, she hardly cared to make
any effort to restrain what she called her temperament.

"Yes, he became my lover," she wrote, "and we disappeared for a few days. Did you ever read
George Moore's Leaves From My Lost Life? In it is a story called 'The Lovers of Orelay.' My
lover and I spent our few days together in much the same way as did the lovers in the story.
We had our nice secluded cool rooms and beautiful flowers. I threw my petticoats over the chairs
and scattered ribbons and things on the dressing table just like the girl in the story. And
we had nice things to drink and good cigarettes, and had all our breakfasts and suppers served
in our rooms. The little adventure turned out better than such things usually do; nothing awkward
happened to mar our pleasure in any way, and I'm glad it happened--and is over and done with.

"You may think me a very light-headed and heartless and altogether frivolous person from my
actions. But I felt so humiliated and so sorry and so desperate about Terry that I was ready
to embrace any excitement, just to forget that our great relation had gone. This time it was
to get away from myself, not in the old physically joyous mood--and to get away from Terry's
poisonous philosophy of life.

"This lover of mine was so joyous, so healthy, so vigorous, so full of life! He was very different
from Terry, and I really needed him as a kind of tonic. And yet, of course, I did not care
for him deeply at all. In fact, I want never again to have a deep relation to anybody, if this
between Terry and me must go.

"This profound failure has made me reckless; Terry is sensitive now, and knows from my manner
and face and the way I express myself just how I am feeling toward any other man. The other
day an old lover of mine turned up in Chicago, and this brought about a scene with Terry.

"To explain this episode I must go back several years. I once knew a Swiss boy, a typical Tyrolean.
The day I met him in Chicago he had just arrived from his native land, and seemed so forlorn
and lonely and miserable that my heart went right out to him. He was such a big, handsome child,
too, about twenty years old. He could not understand a word of English, and no one talked to
him, but me, who, as you know, had parents who spoke German. He was delighted and told me his
whole life story, how he became emancipated and one of the Comrades. His eyes sparkled so and
his cute little blond curls jumped all over his head with the enthusiasm and joy of having
found some one to talk to, that I was quite content to sit and watch and listen. And he thought
me the most sympathetic person in the world.

"Had I only known the result of my impulse to say a few words to a lonely boy! For he did fall
in love with me, and in such sturdy mountaineer fashion that I very nearly had nervous prostration--and
he too--in trying to get away from his strenuous wooing. For he started out to win me in the
same style that he would have used toward one of the cow-girls in his native Alps. He waylaid
me and followed me around everywhere, just camped on my trail; wanted to carry me away to some
place out West, where there were mountains. The more I discouraged him, the more lovesick and
forlorn he became, until finally he became the laughing-stock of the 'movement,' and I was
chaffed about it unmercifully. He knew I had a lover, but that was no obstacle; and he told
me several times with fine enthusiasm that he would not object to sharing his love with another
man! He had read something about free love, and thought he should like to be an Overman and
superior to petty jealousies.

"Strange to say, my curly-headed Swiss lover did not 'insult' me, as they call it, though I
naturally enough supposed that he wanted to, but didn't have enough courage. But I was wrong,
as I discovered later, when I grossly insulted him! Perhaps a girl is loved only once in a
lifetime in just that way, perhaps not at all, and I often think I made a mistake in being
so cruel to my boy lover. I might in time have learned to love him in the right way, but I
couldn't at that time, perhaps because I was so much occupied with Terry, my own lover, and
with the movement, which was new to me and very charming, for I had just discovered it.

"At times I had an immense pity for the poor boy and would have done anything to help him feel
better. I had not the slightest physical feeling for him, but I should have been quite willing
to indulge him, if he had asked me. That was part of our philosophy and my kindness. But he
did not ask me, though he often had the opportunity. He was quite content to be with me and
kiss my hands, and beg me to love him a little. When he saw I did not like to have him kiss
me so much, he would grow so sad and forlorn and tiresome. One day he was at the Salon with
others and annoyed me by hanging about me all the time, until I couldn't stand it any longer.
I called him into another room and told him bluntly that I would indulge him, if that would
help him, only he must for heaven's sake leave me alone!

"Now, this was a most indelicate thing for me to do, and I blush as I write of it, but I was
so desperate and possibly a little under the influence of whiskey--a most convenient and universal
excuse--and had tried all other means of ridding myself of this annoyance, even to slapping
his face and forbidding him to come to the house! When I slapped him, he simply kissed the
hand that smote him, and when I forbade him to return to the house, he followed me about the
streets. If I told you all the silly and ridiculous things the youth did or all the mean, brutal
things I did to cure him, you would scarcely believe me.

"Now when I made that abrupt proposal to him, he blushed to the tip of his ears, and then grew
very angry, and called me an animal and a beast and said he had loved me because he thought
I was different from that; that he did not want that kind of love from me. After a while his
vehemence and anger turned to tears, and he kissed my hands and sobbed out his intention of
going away. I was repentant and very sweet and kind to him while he stayed, but soon he did
go West and I did not see him again till a few weeks ago, when, one Saturday night, I found
him waiting for me at our rooms. I was astonished and not too glad to see him, especially now
that Terry is so sensitive.

"When Terry came home, he looked suspiciously at me and at the poor Swiss, but though I was
quite innocent, I could not turn the poor fellow away, after he had come so far to see me.
But I did not feel at all friendly to him, and I did not speak to him the next day, especially
as Terry went away for several days, to give me a chance, as he put it, to enjoy my love. Then
I told the Swiss with heat that I never wanted to see him again, and he went away for good."

Marie, however, seemed about this time to have lost any sensibility about Terry's emotion that
she may have possessed. Perhaps it was because, as I have said, she felt that the relation
of mutual confidence was really broken and nothing very much mattered. Anyway, she went so
far in her carelessness that Terry could not help coming in disagreeable contact with what
was growing painful to him, though he would be far from admitting it.

Katie, describing these last weeks, said that Terry grew more and more jealous and inclined
to violence. He was very imaginative, and saw in Marie's eyes "something wrong," as Katie put
it. Marie could not be expressive to Terry after an "affair," and Katie saw that Terry understood
the meaning of this inexpressiveness. Also, when Terry went away for a day or two, without
an explanation, Marie was equally "imaginative." Both were intensely proud, both intensely
interested in their "individuality." One day Terry went away, without an explanation, and returned,
after a few days, "pleasantly piped," as he put it, sat down and began to undress. It was dark,
and he had no idea that somebody else was there. But Marie called out harshly, "You can't sleep
here."

"I understood," said Terry. But Katie replied, "That's all right," and she slept on the couch.

"This kind of thing," said Katie, "put them further and further apart. Terry couldn't help
feeling the sting there was in it. Marie had done the same before, but it was in a different
spirit. One of the last scenes was when H---- was visiting us. He and Marie were having coffee
in her room, and Terry was in the other room. Marie and H---- called Katie to come and have
coffee with them. Terry was not invited and this later brought about a terrible quarrel.

"But," said Katie, "it was not really jealousy, though that was part of it, that brought about
the last break. They calmed down, but then began to read Nietzsche again, and I think went
daffy over him. Terry tried the Overman theory on me and Marie. Americans cannot understand
German philosophy."

Nietzsche's doctrine of the distinguished individual being "beyond good and evil," a man superior
to the morality of society, his hatred of Christian civilisation and Christian ethics, his
love of the big forcible blonde who takes his right by his strength only, all this was congenial
to Terry's character, and especially so after the weakening of his social philosophy. The aloofness
of the Overman, the individualistic teachings of Zarathustra, appealed to the anti-social Terry,
to the man who more and more went back to his egotistic personality, to whom more and more
the "communist" Christian anarchists made little appeal, who more and more became what is called
an individualist anarchist, with whom there is little possibility of relationship, who is essentially
anti-social, whose philosophy is really that of social destruction. This indeed is the anarchist
who lives in the public mind--a destroyer. But what the public mind does not see is that this
destructive anarchist is the result of a lost hope in anarchistic communism, a lost hope of
radical extension of social love, in absolute solidarity.

CHAPTER XIV

Marie's Revolt

"The winners fall by the wayside," wrote Terry, "while the losers must ever on--hearkening
to some high request, hastening toward a nameless goal. I am loser, for my motives are large
and my actions small. In my desire to embrace the universe I may neglect a comrade. I can be
as hard as my life and as cruel as its finish. I have only an ideal, and whenever anything
or anybody gets in the way of it I am ruthless in feeling. I must not give up all that I have--what
is in my imagination: I have nothing else."

Yes, Terry is hard. He "passes up" remorselessly not only the individual, but all society;
but it is the hardness of the idealist, of the man who is still religious in the sense that
he sees a beyond-world with which to compare this world and find it totally lacking. So, more
and more he "passed up" Marie, found her more and more lacking, more and more human. The fact
of her being a social outcast no longer had its strong appeal. He became hard and cruel to
her through idealism, just as she had been hard and cruel to him through sensuality and false
philosophy. But her hardness never equalled his fine scorn.

For a year or two preceding this point in the situation I had been living in Europe, and had
met a good many men and women who had given a larger part of their lives to the making of a
social experiment. Some of them, discouraged, had returned to a "bourgeois" manner of life,
some even to a "bourgeois" philosophy. Almost all of the anarchists I have known lost their
philosophy and enthusiasm with middle age, and experience with the actual constitution of things,
combined with disillusion regarding the ideal. Most of them had been hurt or broken by their
attempt, but they all retained a certain something, a certain remaining dignity of having struggled
against the inevitable, and had acquired insight into some of the deeper things in life, though
having lost some of the childlike simplicity which is a characteristic of the social rebel.

I saw a great deal of an old Frenchman, who had known Bakunin, and had been astute in the dangerous
work of the "International" in England and Germany. An associate of William Morris and the
other English anarchists who at that time called themselves socialists, my friend came in contact
with much that was distinguished in mind and energy; he afterward carried the propaganda of
revolutionary socialism to Germany, where he was arrested and imprisoned for five years. He
is now a handsome, white-haired, well-preserved old man, with fine simple manners and joy in
simple things, love of children and of long conversations with friends, good will and peace.
He has retained a certain mild contempt for the "bourgeois," for people who prefer an easy
time in this world to an attempt, even a foolish one, for radical improvement. But he knows
the world now, and I fancy many of his illusions are gone.

Another of my radical friends is now only thirty-six years old; but already he is tired and
discouraged, socially speaking. He is a Frenchman, too, with all the easy mental grace and
intellectual culture of his race. Soon after his student days at the Sorbonne, the social fever
of our day, which burns in the blood of all who are sensitive, took possession of him. Like
Terry, he was drawn emotionally to an interest in the social outcast; like Terry, a girl in
that class interested him, and he took up the cause of the girls, and led an attack against
the policiers des moeurs, the special police who attempt to regulate prostitution in Paris.
He spent all the money he had in the attempt, lost his respectable friends, and, after several
years of fruitless effort, hope left him. When I met him he was living quietly, in bohemian
fashion, drawing a very small salary and devoting himself to abstract philosophy, to science,
and to pessimistic memories of the days of his social enthusiasm, or what he now calls his
social illusions.

One of the most pathetic social experiments I have known was made by a young girl, whom I also
knew at Paris. She generously determined that she would have no sex prejudices; and for several
years she strove against the terribly strong social feeling in that regard. Not only theoretically
but practically she persisted in thinking and acting in a way which the world calls immoral.
She wanted to show that a girl could be good and yet not what the world calls chaste. She did
not believe that sex-relations had anything to do with real morality. In one way, she has been
successful. She is as good now--better--as when she began her experiment. She is broader and
finer and bigger; but she has suffered. She has been disappointed in her idealism, disappointed
in the way men have met her frank generosity, she has been injured in a worldly way. Her strongest
desires are those of all good women--she deeply wants the necessary shelter for children and
social quiet and pleasure, and these essentials are denied her because of her idealism. She
half feels this now and is tired and discouraged.

Another woman who has paid heavily for her "social" interests is in quite a different position.
She is married to a man who is also a social idealist. He is so emotionally occupied with "society"
that nature and life in its more eternal and necessary aspects touch him lightly. He hardly
realises their existence. She tries to follow him in this direction; strains her woman's nature,
which is a large one, to the uttermost. It is probable that the loss of his child was due to
this idealistic contempt for old wisdom. Not a moment must be lost, not a thought devoted to
anything but the revolution; this necessitated social activity, and that exclusively. Where
was the opportunity for the quiet development and care of an infant? The children of the "radicals"
are few, and as a rule do not grow up in the best conditions. This certainly is a terrible
sacrifice entailed upon the social idealist.

Writers in France and in Europe generally are much more interested in radical ideas of society
and politics than they are in this country. The most distinguished among them are from the
American point of view radical, at least. There is hardly a play of note produced in France
or Germany that does not in some way trench upon modern social problems. Anatole France is
a philosophical anarchist, and so is Octave Misbeau. It is not a disreputable thing to be so
in France. An Emma Goldman there would be an object of respect. The prime minister of France
was generally regarded as an anarchist before he went into office. A man of the type of Hervê
would be deemed a madman here. Even a man as little radical as Jaurès would be considered a
terrible social danger in America and could not conceivably have the power he exerts in France,
where they have a respect for ideas as such.

But, combined with this interest in social things and this willingness to entertain the most
radical ideas, there is a note of pessimism and disillusionment. Anatole France's work shows
this double tendency well. He reflects the social revolt and lack of respect for the old society
in a most subtle way, but also he mirrors the failing hope of the social enthusiast. He has
a deep sympathy for the social idealist, but nearly every book suggests the inevitable wreckage
of enthusiasm on the rocks of actuality.

When, after an absence of several years, I returned from Europe and went again to Chicago,
I found Terry alone, disheartened, and different from the Terry I had known. Soon I saw that
in him had taken place a process not unlike that which had happened to my friends abroad and
which was reflected in European literature. His letters and Marie's had already indicated,
as we have seen, his social disappointment. But I found him more bitter even than I had expected;
cut off even from the anarchists, nourishing almost insanely his individuality, full of Nietzsche's
philosophy of egotism, rejecting everything passionately, turning from his friends, turning
from himself. Old society had long been dead for him and now he had no hope for the new!

Besides, Marie was not with him: she had revolted and run away. I had expected to see her in
Chicago; she had written me that she would be there, but when I arrived I learned from Terry
and Katie that she had gone away. During the few weeks preceding my return to Chicago, the
quarrels between the three had grown in poignancy. Terry, unlike some of the disappointed anarchists
I have known, could not settle back into an easy acceptance of life. With him it was all or
nothing. More and more fiercely he rejected all society, even, as we have seen anarchist society.
Of course, Marie came more and more in the way of this general anathema. She was young and
pleasure-loving, and at last her nature could no longer stand this general rejection, the absence
of the simple pleasures of life. It was not their quarrels, even when they came to blows, that
determined her action. It was a revolt from the radical sterility of Terry's philosophy. Katie
furnished her with the necessary money, and she went away to California. There this tired creature,
this civilised product of the slums, this thoughtful prostitute, this striving human being
full of the desire for life and as eager for excellence as is the moth for the star, went into
camp, and there, in the bosom of nature, her terrible fatigue was well expressed in the great
sense of relief that resulted: a new birth, as it were, a refreshing reaction from slum life
and overstrained mental intensity. This new birth and this reaction from Terry's philosophy
are well expressed in her letters to Terry and to me. To me she wrote:

"I have not dared to write you before for fear of your anger toward me for my abrupt dismissal
of our plans of meeting, but I could not help it. The life instinct in me would not be doomed,
but was insistent in its demands and made me flee from insanity and death. So here I am, far
away from civilisation, from the madding crowd, away up in the mountains, making a last effort
to live the straight free life of Nature's children, a suckling at the breasts of Mother Earth.
And truly her milk is passing sweet and goes to the head like wine, for I feel intoxicated
with the beauty and joy of all things here in this new, wonderful world. I did not know that
such beauty existed, and my appreciation of it is so intense that it produces sensations of
physical pain. I live much as the birds do, or at least try to--no thought of the morrow, or
of the past, except when I receive a letter from dear old Katie or from Terry. Katie asks me
if I have found a job yet, and Terry has some sweet reflections about death or dead things.
But I recover in an amazingly short time from these blows, climb to the mountain-top, extend
my arms to the heavens, and embrace passionately the great, grand, throbbing stillness.

"I have been here now a whole month and have not yet wearied of it for a moment. Each day brings
a new, wonderful experience; and each day I feel a real part of the great wonderful scheme
of things. Indeed, I am becoming a part of nature. I have grown so straight and tall, and so
beautifully thin and supple that I can dart in and out of the stream without bumping myself
against the rocks, can climb steep hills, and let the winds blow me where they will. I should
not be at all surprised to awaken some morning and find that I had become one of the tall reeds
that sway to and fro along the banks of our mountain stream.

"In one of my brief periods of returning civilisation, just after receiving a terrible letter
from Terry, I had myself weighed at the store and post-office of the town not far away from
our camp; my weight was exactly eighty pounds! It seemed to me that I was fading away into
something wild and strange. But I have never felt such physical and mental well-being since
I can remember. I hardly need to eat, but our camp cook actually forces me to swallow something.
He is a German 'radical' of the old school. Frightfully tired of the radical bunch as I am,
I like this simple old man. He is like a part of Nature, has lived on her bosom all his life,
and loves her and no other. We have visitors at our camp occasionally, and they bring things
to eat and drink. When they are gone, the cook and I live on what is left and get along as
best we may. There are lots of wild fruits and nuts growing about here and they are delicious.
Neither of us has any money nor care for the morrow.

"After I arrived here, all the bitterness of life vanished. I thought and felt very beautifully
of Terry, and always shall, for I have made an ideal of him, and his grand, noble head, like
a blazing tiger-lily perched upon a delicate and slender stem, will always be for me the greatest,
most wonderful recollection of all the years. But I have no longer any desire to be with him,
yet I do love and adore him, my own wonderful, sweet, great Terry!"

To Terry she wrote: "I am intoxicated by all this beauty and love the very air and earth. I
feel the ecstasy of the æsthetic fanatic. Were I not disturbed by thoughts of you, I would
indeed become another Eve before the fall, though I have strange desires and my blood beats
as in the veins of married women. But no lovers can quench my fever. All the tiresome males
are far away and I feel new-born and free. The air is scented with balsam and bey, and a pure
crystal stream flows through this valley between two hills covered with giant redwood trees,
and rare orchids of the most curious shape and colour toss wantonly in the breeze on the tree
and hilltops. Birds and fishes and reptiles disport themselves in the sunshine, and giant butterflies
of the most marvellous colours flutter so bravely among the ferns and flowers. There are no
tents here in our camp, but we are covered with the fragrant branches of the spicy pines and
nutmeg trees. It is a Paradise, and I think of you always when I am in the midst of beauty.

"My trip here included an eighteen-mile walk--in one day--think of that! I am getting as thin
and strong as a greyhound. I don't wear clothes at all, but when I do, it is the old man's
overalls, which I put on to go to town to get groceries or call for the mail. At night, our
old cook builds a huge fire of redwood logs, and then his tongue loosens and he quotes poetry
by the column or talks of his experience as a preacher, actor, village schoolmaster, and vagabond.
Without a cent he travels all over California, as strong and rugged as any redwood tree that
grows in this wonderful valley.

"It is so secluded here that no one would suspect campers were about. The trail leads down
a steep descent. How stately it is between the huge stems of the trees, along our beautiful
creek, cool and clear as crystal, and filled with trout and other fishes. There I sit in the
sun and allow the water to pour over my shoulders."

In another letter to Terry she writes:

"Our sylvan retreat has been somewhat disturbed by the advent of Mrs. Johns, her children and
her dog. Annie is also here, but they will not remain long, it is too quiet, too lonely, and
the nights are too mysterious and uncanny, strange noises to disturb the slumbers of the timid.
And besides there is nothing to do, no hurry or bustle or activity. The spirit of repose, of
rest, of sweet laziness broods over this spot, inviting us to dream away the hours among the
spicy pine trees. And for two such active ladies it is very dull here. Even when they go to
town they return disgusted and weary in spirit because of the slowness of the natives, who
are half Spanish, half Mexican. Even the beautiful trail winding in and out among the mountains
does not compensate them for the dreadful slowness of the natives. I, however, love this slowness
and converse amicably with the natives. And when I am a little active I go fishing, or climb
about, or take a lesson in Spanish from my old philosopher-cook. I am now learning a little
peasant song, the refrain being, 'Hula, tula, Palomita,' and it does sound so beautiful that
I repeat it over and over. It means, 'Fly, fly, little dove!'

"The fishing I do not care for much. It is exciting for a time, but soon grows a bit too strenuous
for my lazy temper. The little stream is filled with trout; one has flies for bait which have
to be kept on the move continually. Walking and jerking the lines out of the water continually
soon makes my arms and legs tired. I like best of all to lie in a bed of fragrant leaves, my
head in the shade and the rest of me in the sun, the murmur of the brook in my ears, the skies
mirrored in my eyes, fantastic dreams in my mind--in these you are seldom absent. At night
I sleep as I have never slept--a deep, dreamless slumber. I awake to a cold plunge in the stream.
Oh, it just suits me!

A letter from Terry came like a dart into her solitude and for a moment disturbed her mood--her
deeply hygienic, fruitful mood. She wrote to him:

"Your letter was a dreadful, an overwhelming shock. It aroused passions in me which I thought
were laid to rest. But, after getting very drunk, I had sense enough to sleep over it, so that
this morning I am almost my new self again. Last night I felt like cursing you with all the
wrath of the earth and heaven. The last three weeks I have been camping here, caught in the
spell of the wonder and beauty of nature. I have written you the half crazy rhapsodies of a
girl intoxicated with the joy of life and health. Now I do indeed think that life is beautiful
and worth the living. No, I do not worry about you. I am as happy and care-free as the birds,
and live in and for the moment. Everything in the past is dead. Only when your letter came,
these old things of my old self raised their heads for a little time, but they too shall die
speedily, if I mistake not. Life is too wonderful, too beautiful to be marred thus by the ends
of frayed and worn-out passions, by memories or regrets of you. I have become happy, healthy,
and free, free without hardness, and in my freedom and joy I have found my love, my beautiful
Terry, whom I may love passionately, tenderly and for ever, the dear ideal one. Is it not wonderful?
I crown myself with flowers and go forth to meet him every day. I kneel at his feet and caress
his dear hands. For I love him dearly, this very new Terry. Yet, my dear, if you should come
near me, I mean, you, my old poisonous Terry, I would flee from you as from a pest. I would
loath myself and the sun and flowers and all the other beautiful things of earth. I do not
think of you at all, my old Terry, but I think of you and love and adore you, my new, wonderful
Terry, and I make myself beautiful for you. So, my dear old Terry, I will leave you to 'lice
and liberty,' to your 'hard free life,' and I will now lave myself with the pure crystal waters
and make myself clean again, and then look on the sun once more and dream again of my own adorable
Terry."

In this letter, Marie said, by implication, a deep truth about social revolt. She could never
have lived her life without him, this strange, poetic man. He awoke in this outcast, rather
vicious girl, a keen longing for the excellent, for the pleasures of the intelligence and the
temperament; he gave her an assured sense of her own essential dignity and worth; defended
her against the society that rejected her. This was a truly Christ-like thing to do, and this
she could never forget or do without. So, in her wilderness, she holds fast to her ideal Terry.
But with this idealist she could not live, practically. The growing irritation felt by him
because of his radical mal-adjustment to this world rendered him step by step more impossible
to live with. Harshness, injustice, became forced upon him as qualities of his acts. How could
he be fair when he had no understanding of the nature of actuality? It is probable that no
woman can ever get so far away from actuality as a few rare idealists of the male sex. Marie's
relative good sense, her vitality and love of life, finally rebelled against an idealism so
exquisite that it became cruelty and almost madness. And this is the way with the world. The
world cannot, in the end, endure the idealist, though it has great need of him. The world can
endure a certain amount of irritation, a certain amount of fundamental revolt, but when that
revolt reaches the point of absolute rejection, the world rebels, the worm turns. Marie represents
the world and the worm.

Plato said there should be no poets in his Republic. Poets are too disturbing, they fit into
no social organisation, for the truth they see is larger and often other than the truth of
mankind's housekeeping, of human society. So they are against society. They are for nature,
both God's nature and man's nature, but man's organisation arouses their passionate hostility.
Therefore, said Plato, let us have no poets in our Republic. But Plato was a poet, and he probably
knew that poets, though inimical to the actual working of any actual society, yet are necessary
to keep alive the deeper ideals of humankind, to arouse perpetually the instinct for something
better than what we have, something deeply better, something radically better, not the mere
improvements, palliatives, of the practical man and the conservative, bourgeois reformer.

CHAPTER XV

Terry's Finish

Terry had given Marie life, and she had finally used this vitality to free herself from him
and his too exigent idealism. Uli's master urges him to refuse the invitation to play on the team;
but the malicious neighbor talks him over. Though the Potato Hollowers use all their skill and cunning,
even to cheating the umpire, they lose the game by one point; they must set up the dinner,
which ends in a free fight. A victory in this comforts Potato Hollow somewhat. But two of the
Brandywiners claim damages, and the local players are afraid of severe judgment if it comes to
trial, it being not the first offense.

They agree to a plan, devised by the malicious neighbor, to let the entire penalty fall on Uli's
head, so that they can go scot-free. Uli is to confess himself the guilty party, and in return for this
service the others, all wealthy farmers' sons, will reimburse him for all expenses and give him a handsome
bonus besides. Uli's master overhears his neighbor talking to Uli, decides to interfere, and points out
to him the noose into which he is running his head. He advises Uli to demand a written promise,
signed by all, that they will do what has been agreed upon. Uli brings home the written promise and
shows it to his master; it turns out to be nothing but a certificate that Uli is the guilty party. Uli is
in consternation; but the master promises to help him out if he will abide by his word in the future.
Accordingly, Johannes meets the scheming neighbor and advises him
to have the other players settle up and leave Uli in peace, or else
Uli may have occasion to show the paper to the governor.

Uli hears nothing more about the affair.]

CHAPTER VII

HOW THE MASTER
KINDLES A FIRE FOR THE GOOD SEED

[The author points out the disastrous
consequences of giving the servants on a farm only unheated rooms
to live in, and no access to the warm house; on Sundays they seek
warmth in the public-houses or elsewhere, and terrible immorality
results.

Uli feels the need of a warm room to sit in, and the master invites
him into the house.

The maids are
at first much put out, and the mistress too; but the master upholds
Uli, and gradually the new custom wins favor and results in a betterment
of all the servants.]

CHAPTER VIII

A SERVANT BECOMES PROSPEROUS
AND SOON THE SPECULATORS APPEAR

[Uli becomes quite settled in steady
habits, and soon has a nice little sum of money in hand.

But others get wind of it, and they borrow
various sums of him, promising to pay back at a certain time with
interest. Soon Uli's money is all gone, but he exults in the thought
of his interest. When the time for payment comes the debtors make
excuses; and as time goes on and no money is forthcoming, Uli becomes
anxious.

At length the master notices his distress, finds out the trouble, and
helps him to recover most of what he had lent, admonishing him hereafter
to put his savings in the bank.]

CHAPTER IX

ULI GAINS PRESTIGE AND
IMPRESSES GIRLS

[Uli's improvement proceeds steadily, and his self-respect
with it.

The two maids are greatly impressed by him, and both set their caps for him. Stini,
the elder, is very ugly and cross-grained, but a good worker and very thrifty.
Yrsi, on the other hand, is pretty and sweet-tempered, but lazy and
heedless, and wants a husband so as to avoid working.

Jealously the two watch each other's attempts to catch Uli, who is
drawn now to Yrsi's prettiness, now to Stini's thrift.

Their jealousy finally becomes
so furious that Uli begins to cool off, which only makes them the
more eager.

Yrsi plans a master-stroke: she uncovers
the liquid manure-pit, and Stini tumbles into it.

When she is finally hauled out, not without difficulty and amid the gibes of the other servants, she falls
like a tigress upon her rival, and the two roll in the dirt and become
such a reeking ball of filth that no one ventures to touch them to
pull them apart.

But Uli has had enough of them both and is entirely cured, though
not of his desire for marriage.]

CHAPTER X

HOW ULI SELLS A COW
AND ALMOST GETS A WIFE

[Uli is sent to market with a cow, which he
sells at a good profit.

On the way home he encounters the daughter of a neighbor, struggling with four little pigs. She
begs his assistance, and as they go along she gives him a glowing
account of her father's prosperity and the size of her dowry.

She invites him into a tavern on the way, and they take some refreshment together. Then she goes on about
herself--how strong she is, and how much work she can do, and what
a good catch she would make.

Uli cannot get in a word edgewise, but is mightily impressed by her
imposing vigor and her father's wealth, so that he goes home with
his head in a whirl.

The master and his wife are pleased with Uli's success, and the master
hands over to Uli the profit he has made on the cow.

Uli asks the master about the
neighbor's Katie, saying that he thinks she would have him.

The master, however, strongly dissuades him, pointing out that Katie
might make a good field-hand, but not a good wife.

She can make hay, but not soup; and there is not so much wealth,
for the farm is badly managed.

The boys will get the land, and the girls can take the leavings, which
will not amount to very much.

Besides, the girls are spoiled and will not know what to do on a small farm, after being used to a big
one; and if Uli stays there he will simply be a servant without pay. Uli sees that the master is
right, and decides to think no more of the matter.]

CHAPTER XI

HOW
DESIRES TAKE FORM IN A SERVANT, AND HOW A GOOD MASTER REALIZES THEM

[Uli
gradually reaches something like perfection, and his savings amount
to a handsome sum.

But the money seems to come too slowly, and he begins to feel impatient. The master is at first
vexed, but sees that he must either pay Uli what will satisfy him, or
let him go. Uli suggests buying or renting something, but the master
will not hear to it; Uli has too little money for that. Then one autumn
the master goes to market and encounters there a cousin, Joggeli,
who has come, he says, to see Johannes.

Joggeli tells his troubles: he and his wife are getting old and decrepit,
and can no longer look after their large farm as formerly.

Their son Johannes has become too stuck-up for the farm and now runs
a tavern; their daughter is good for nothing, incompetent and lazy.

The overseer whom he has
had for eleven years has been cheating him right and left, and the
other servants are hand in glove with him.

Joggeli desires a new overseer, a first-class man
on whom he can depend; he would pay as high as a hundred crowns if
he could find what he wants.

Johannes recommends Uli, and Joggeli comes to have a look at him. He
does his best to find some fault in him, but can discover none.

Johannes and his wife are both reluctant to let Uli go, but they think it is for his good, and so Uli is
induced to hire out to Joggeli for sixty crowns, two pairs of shoes,
four shirts, and tips.

All hearts are heavy as New Year's approaches, when the change is to be
made.

The master himself plans to drive Uli over to his new place.]

CHAPTER XII

HOW ULI LEAVES HIS OLD PLACE AND REACHES HIS NEW ONE

On the following
morning the sleigh was made ready and the box fastened on it, and
Uli had to breakfast with the family in the living-room--coffee, cheese,
and pancakes.

When the horse was harnessed Uli could scarcely go, and when at last the time came, and he stretched
out his hand to his mistress and said, "Good-bye, mother, and don't be angry with me," the tears
rushed to his eyes again; and the mistress had to lift her apron to her eyes, saying, "I don't
know what for; I only hope you'll get along well. But if you don't like it come back any time, the
sooner the better."

The children would scarcely let him go; it seemed as if his heart would
break when the master finally told them to let loose, that they must
start if they wanted to get there today, and it wouldn't be the last
time they were to see each other; but that now there was no help for
it.

When they drove away the mistress kept wiping her eyes for a long
time, and had to comfort the children, who, it seemed, could not
stop weeping and lamenting.

In silence the two men drove over the gleaming snow.

"Steady!" the master had to say
occasionally, when the wild Blazer struck into a gallop, pulling
the light sleigh along like the wind and kicking the snow high in
the air.

"It distresses me," said Uli, "and more and more, the nearer we get; it's
so hard for me! I can't believe that I'm not running into misfortune;
it seems as if it was right ahead of me."

"That's natural," said the master, "and I wouldn't take that as a bad omen.
Think: nearly ten years ago, when you were a ne'er-do-well and I
started you going right, how hard it was for you to do better, and
how little faith you had in the possibility that everything would
turn out right.

But still it did, gradually. Your faith got stronger, and now you're a lad that can be said
to have won his battle. So don't be distressed; what you've got before
you now is all the easier for it, and the worst thing that can happen
is that you'll come back to me in a year.

Just keep yourself straight and watch out, for my cousin is terribly suspicious; but once he's taken your
measure, you can put up with him.

You'll have the worst time with the other servants; go easy with them, little by little, and in
kindness as long as you can; then if that's no good, speak right up so that you'll know where
you are--I wouldn't like a year of that sort of thing myself."

It was a bright, clear January day as they drove through handsome
fields, then between white fences and glittering trees, toward Slough
Farm.

This property lay perhaps ten minutes' walk from Uefligen, was over
a hundred acres in size and very fruitful, but not all in one piece;
some fields and one grass-meadow lay at some distance.

In wet years it might be swampy in spots, but that could be managed.

As they drove up, Joggeli came stumping on a stick around the house,
which stood on rather low ground, and said that he had been looking
for them for a long time, and had almost thought they weren't coming;
he had become impatient.

He shouted toward the barns, which were built against the house,
for some one to come and take the horse.

No one came. Uli himself had to unhitch and asked where to take Blazer.
"Why, is nobody here?" Nobody came. Then the old man went angrily to the stable
and pulled the door open, and there was the carter calmly currying
horses.

"Don't you hear when you're called?" cried Joggeli.

"I didn't hear anything."

"Then prick up your ears and come and take the horse."

He'd have to make room for it first, growled the fellow, and shot in among his
horses like a hawk in a pigeon-house, so that they dashed at their mangers
and kicked, and Uli only by constant "Whoas" and at risk of life
got Blazer into the last stall.

There he could find no halter for a time.

"Should have brought one," was the carter's remark.

When Uli went back to the sleigh and untied his box, the wood-cutters were to help him carry it;
but for a long time none stirred. Finally they dispatched the boy, who let the handle go when
they were on the stairs, so that Uli almost tumbled down backward and only owed it to his strength
that he did not. The room to which he was shown was not bright, was
unheated, and provided with two beds.

He stood
in it somewhat depressed, until they called to him to come down and
get something warm to eat.

Outside, a cheerful, pretty girl received him, nutbrown of hair and eyes,
red and white as to cheeks, with kissable lips, blinding white teeth,
tall and strong, yet slender in build, with a serious face behind
which lurked both mischief and good nature.

     And over the whole lay that familiar, but indescribable Something,
     that always testifies to inward and outward purity, to a soul which
     hates the unclean and whose body therefore never becomes unclean, or never
     seems so even in the dirtiest work. Freneli--this was the
     girl's name--was
     
     a poor relation, who had never had a home and was always treated like
Cinderella, but always shook off the ashes--a girl who was never
dimmed outwardly or inwardly, but met God and men and every new day
with fresh and merry laughter, and hence found a home everywhere and
made a place for herself in all hearts, however they might try to
resist her; therefore she was often dearly loved by her relatives
even while they fancied they hated her, casting her out because she
was the offspring of an illicit intercourse between an aristocratic
relative and a day-laborer.

     
     
     Freneli had not opened the door. When Uli came out the brown eyes
     rapidly swept over him, and quite seriously Freneli said, "I
     suppose you're the new overseer; they want you to come down and get
     something warm to eat." There was no need, said Uli, they had eaten
something on the way.
     

     
     
     None the less he followed the fleet girl to the living-room in
     silence. In it Joggeli and Johannes were already sitting at the
     table, half hidden by smoking
     
     
     meat, both fresh and salted,
     
     
     sauerkraut and dried
     
     
     
     pears. A plump, friendly old woman came to meet him, wiped
     her hand on her apron, Held it out to
     
     him, and said, "Are you the new overseer? Well, well, if you're as good
     as you are handsome, it'll be all right, I don't doubt. Sit down
     and eat, and don't be bashful; the food's there to be eaten."
     

     
     
     
     On the stove bench there sat yet another
     
     form, lean, with a white face and pale, lustreless eyes; she
     acted as if she were paying no heed to anything, but had a pretty
box before her, and was winding blue silk from one ball to another.
     

     Joggeli was telling about the time he had had with the last overseer, and
     what he had had to stand since then, and how it seemed to him that
     it had been much worse than he could remember now. "All the torment
     such a fellow can make you, and you can't string him up for it--it's
not right, I swear.
     

     It didn't use to be so; there was a time when they hanged everybody
     that stole as much as would pay for the rope. That was something
     like, but all that's changed. It's enough to make you think the bad
     folks have nothing
     
     but their own kind in the government, the way it lets 'em get
     away. Why, we don't even hang the women that poison their husbands any
     more.
     

     
     
     
     Now, I'd like to know what's worse, to break the law by killing somebody,
     or by letting him live; it looks to me as if one was as bad as the
other.

     
     
     
And then it seems to me that if those who ought to maintain the law are
the ones to break it, they deserve no forgiveness of God or men.
Then I think we ought to have the right to put 'em where they belong,
instead of having to pay 'em besides."

During this long speech of Joggeli's, which he fortunately delivered
inside his four walls, as otherwise it might easily have brought down
upon him an action for high treason, his wife kept constantly saying
to Johannes and especially to Uli, "Take some more, won't you, that's
what it's for; or don't you like it?

     We give what we've got--it's bad enough; but at least we don't
     grudge it to you. (Joggeli, do
     
     fill up the glasses; look, they're empty.) Drink, won't you, there's more
where that came from. Our son gave us the wine; they say it's good; he
bought it himself down in Italy; it actually cost fivepence halfpenny
the quart, and not too full a quart at that."

     
     

     
     When Uli did not wish to take any more the old woman still kept putting
     food before him, stuck the fork into the largest pieces and then
     thrust them off on his plate with her thumb, saying, "Ho, you're a fine
fellow if you can't get that down too; such a big lad must eat if
he wants to keep his strength, and we're glad to give it to him; whoever
wants to work has got to eat.

Take some more, do."

But at last Uli really could eat nothing more, took up his cap, prayed,
and stood up to go. "Stay awhile," said Joggeli; "where are you going?
They'll look after your Blazer, I gave 'em strict orders."

"Oh, I'd like to go out and look around a bit and see how I like it,"
said Uli.

"Go then; but come back when you get cold; you're not to work today, do you
hear," said the mother.

"He'll
have something to live through," said Joggeli, "they hate like poison
to have him come, and I think the carter would have liked to be overseer.

But I don't care if they are against each other.

It's never good to have the servants on too good terms; it always
comes out of the master."

"Ho," said Johannes, "that's as you take it. If the servants are on one side
and the master on the other, then he has a hard time and can't do anything.
But when the servants are all against each other, and each one does his best
to vex the others, and one won't help another--that's bad for the
master too; for after all in the end everything hits the master and
his interests.

I
think it's a true saying that peace prospers, discord destroys. I don't just
like it here. Nobody came to take the horse; nobody wanted to help Uli
with his box; each one does as he likes, and they don't fear anybody.
Cousin, that won't be good. I must tell you, Uli won't stay here under
those conditions. If he's to be overseer and have the responsibility, he wants
order too; he won't let 'em all do as they please.

Then there'll be a fuss; it will all come back on him, and if you don't
back him up he'll run off

.


     "It is an absorbing story of the making of a criminal, and
     is rightly classed by the publishers as a 'human document.'
     It is absorbing alike to the reader who reads for the
     diversion of reading and to those who are really thoughtful
     students of the forces which are working in the life round
     about them."--Brooklyn Life.

     "Those in whom the sense of human oneness and social
     responsibility is strong will be intensely interested in
     these genuine experiences and in the naïve, if perverted,
     viewpoint of a pick-pocket, thief and burglar who has served
     three terms in State's prison."--Booklovers' Library.

     "It may be that 'Jim' puts things strongly sometimes, but
     the spirit of truth at least is plain in every chapter of
     the book. That, in general, it is the real thing is the
     feeling the reader has after he has finished with 'The
     Autobiography of a Thief.' It is not a pleasant book; it is
     anything but a book such as the young person should receive
     as a birthday gift. It is a book however which the man
     anxious to keep track of life in this country should read
     and ponder over."--JOSIAH FLYNT, in the Bookman.

DUFFIELD AND COMPANY

36 EAST 21ST ST. NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Spirit of Labor"

$1.25 Net

     "A straightforward narrative which has the tremendous
     advantage of disclosing more things about the greater life
     of Chicago--and more which are not generally known to the
     more sheltered classes--than any book of its size ever
     written. Those who wish to be written down as loving their
     fellow-men should read this volume with care. It is a real
     book, and worth anybody's while."--The Interior, Chicago.

     "Much of the story is set down in this man's own words, and
     the whole is made vividly interesting and really meaningful
     by the author's broad understanding and sincerity of
     purpose."--Life, New York.

     "Mr. Hapgood's portrayal of the American workingman is a
     'moving picture' in two senses of this equivocal phrase. It
     is kinetoscopic, first of all, in its lifelikeness and the
     convincing reality of the actions it pictures. Then, again,
     it is emotionally moving; for the character of Anton, the
     big, honest, alert and energetic Chicago laborer, can hardly
     fail to arouse in the reader intense admiration, lively
     sympathy and not a little amusement free from all cynicism
     and class feeling. In 'The Spirit of Labor' we are brought
     into living contact with the men and women we meet on the
     streets, the great American public with whom every business
     man, every pastor and every politician has daily to reckon.
     Teamsters, masons, unionists, saloonkeepers, policemen,
     wash-women, newsboys, walking delegates, waitresses, ward
     heelers, local bosses, anarchists--the procession seems
     endless and the medley beyond all hope of disentanglement.
     But it is real life and no parade of puppets."--New York
     Tribune.

     "We cannot doubt, however, that Anton is a true type and
     represents a large portion of the men of this land with whom
     workers and students in social matters must meet. The book
     deals intimately with the questions arising between labor
     and capital, and is especially interesting in its analysis
     of the Chicago spirit as it relates to these matters."--The
     Christian Advocate, New York.

     "The story of Anton and his socialistic, anarchistic, and
     trade union comrades is a faithful and photographic picture
     of aspects of the urban activity of vast multitudes of
     industrials combining to assist each one in his fellow in
     the struggle for existence and fullness of life. The forces
     revealed are full of danger, the temper is ugly, the manners
     are always urbane, the judgment not always well informed,
     the range of knowledge often limited; but there is wondrous
     power, vigor, and the chaotic promise of a better and larger
     morality than anything the churches yet have taught, or the
     mere book students have ever dreamed. Miss Jane Addams has
     discovered this larger morality in seeming coarseness and
     evil, and Mr. Hapgood has given us glimpses of it in the
     biography of his man of toil and rebellion. The Philistine
     needs the Anarchist to wake him, as Hume did Kant, from his
     dogmatic slumbers, and the Philistine may (let us hope
     rarely) wear cap and gown."--The Dial, Chicago.

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Transcriber's Notes:                                         |
  |                                                              |
  | Page 54: woman amended to women                              |
  | Page 97: acount amended to account                           |
  | Page 102: interst amended to interest                        |
  | Page 145: pamplets amended to pamphlets                      |
  | Page 148: envolved sic                                     |
  | Page 154: senstive amended to sensitive                      |
  | Page 166: inconsistences amended to inconsistencies          |
  | Page 172: beause amended to because                          |
  | Page 241: concious amended to conscious                      |
  |                                                              |
  | Punctuation has been standardised.                           |
  |                                                              |
  | Where a word is hyphenated and unhyphenated an equal number  |
  | of times, both versions have been retained: pickpocket/      |
  | pick-pocket; upstairs/up-stairs.                             |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

