HENRIETTA'S WISH;

OR, DOMINEERING

By Charlotte M. Yonge

CHAPTER I.

On the afternoon of a warm day in the end of July, an open carriage was waiting in front of
the painted toy-looking building which served as the railway station of Teignmouth. The fine
bay horses stood patiently enduring the attacks of hosts of winged foes, too well-behaved to
express their annoyance otherwise than by twitchings of their sleek shining skins, but duly
grateful to the coachman, who roused himself now and then to whisk off some more pertinacious
tormentor with the end of his whip.

Less patient was the sole occupant of the carriage, a maiden of about sixteen years of age,
whose shady dark grey eyes, parted lips, and flushed complexion, were all full of the utmost
eagerness, as every two or three minutes she looked up from the book which she held in her
hand to examine the clock over the station door, compare it with her watch, and study the countenances
of the bystanders to see whether they expressed any anxiety respecting the non-arrival of the
train. All, however, seemed quite at their ease, and after a time the arrival of the railway
omnibus and two or three other carriages, convinced her that the rest of the world only now
began to consider it to be due. At last the ringing of a bell quickened everybody into a sudden
state of activity, and assured her that the much-desired moment was come. The cloud of smoke
was seen, the panting of the engine was heard, the train displayed its length before the station,
men ran along tapping the doors of the carriages, and shouting a word which bore some distant
resemblance to "Teignmouth," and at the same moment various travellers emerged from the different
vehicles.

Her eye eagerly sought out one of these arrivals, who on his side, after a hasty greeting to
the servant who met him on the platform, hurried to the carriage, and sprang into it. The two
faces, exactly alike in form, complexion, and features, were for one moment pressed together,
then withdrawn, in the consciousness of the publicity of the scene, but the hands remained
locked together, and earnest was the tone of the "Well, Fred!" "Well, Henrietta!" which formed
the greeting of the twin brother and sister.

"And was not mamma well enough to come?" asked Frederick, as the carriage turned away from
the station.

"She was afraid of the heat. She had some business letters to write yesterday, which teased
her, and she has not recovered from them yet; but she has been very well, on the whole, this
summer. But what of your school affairs, Fred? How did the examination go off?"

"I am fourth, and Alex Langford fifth. Every one says the prize will lie between us next year."

"Surely," said Henrietta, "you must be able to beat him then, if you are before him now."

"Don't make too sure, Henrietta," said Frederick, shaking his head, "Langford is a hard-working
fellow, very exact and accurate; I should not have been before him now if it had not been for
my verses."

"I know Beatrice is very proud of Alexander," said Henrietta, "she would make a great deal
of his success."

"Why of his more than of that of any other cousin?" said Frederick with some dissatisfaction.

"O you know he is the only one of the Knight Sutton cousins whom she patronizes; all the others
she calls cubs and bears and Osbaldistones. And indeed, Uncle Geoffrey says he thinks it was
in great part owing to her that Alex is different from the rest. At least he began to think
him worth cultivating from the time he found him and Busy Bee perched up together in an apple-tree,
she telling him the story of Alexander the Great. And how she always talks about Alex when
she is here."

"Is she at Knight Sutton?"

"Yes, Aunt Geoffrey would not come here, because she did not wish to be far from London, because
old Lady Susan has not been well. And only think, Fred, Queen Bee says there is a very nice
house to be let close to the village, and they went to look at it with grandpapa, and he kept
on saying how well it would do for us."

"O, if we could but get mamma there!" said Fred. "What does she say?"

"She knows the house, and says it is a very pleasant one," said Henrietta; "but that is not
an inch--no, not the hundredth part of an inch--towards going there!"

"It would surely be a good thing for her if she could but be brought to believe so," said Frederick.
"All her attachments are there--her own home; my father's home."

"There is nothing but the sea to be attached to, here," said Henrietta. "Nobody can take root
without some local interest, and as to acquaintance, the people are always changing."

"And there is nothing to do," added Fred; "nothing possible but boating and riding, which are
not worth the misery which they cause her, as Uncle Geoffrey says. It is very, very--"

"Aggravating," said Henrietta, supplying one of the numerous stock of family slang words.

"Yes, aggravating," said he with a smile, "to be placed under the necessity of being absurd,
or of annoying her!"

"Annoying! O, Fred, you do not know a quarter of what she goes through when she thinks you
are in any danger. It could not be worse if you were on the field of battle! And it is very
strange, for she is not at all a timid person for herself. In the boat, that time when the
wind rose, I am sure Aunt Geoffrey was more afraid than she was, and I have seen it again and
again that she is not easily frightened."

"No: and I do not think she is afraid for you."

"Not as she is for you, Fred; but then boys are so much more precious than girls, and besides
they love to endanger themselves so much, that I think that is reasonable."

"Uncle Geoffrey thinks there is something nervous and morbid in it," said Fred: "he thinks
that it is the remains of the horror of the sudden shock--"

"What? Our father's accident?" asked Henrietta. "I never knew rightly about that. I only knew
it was when we were but a week old."

"No one saw it happen," said Fred; "he went out riding, his horse came home without him, and
he was lying by the side of the road."

"Did they bring him home?" asked Henrietta, in the same low thrilling tone in which her brother
spoke.

"Yes, but he never recovered his senses: he just said 'Mary,' once or twice, and only lived
to the middle of the night!"

"Terrible!" said Henrietta, with a shudder. "O! how did mamma ever recover it?--at least, I
do not think she has recovered it now,--but I meant live, or be even as well as she is."

"She was fearfully ill for long after," said Fred, "and Uncle Geoffrey thinks that these anxieties
for me are an effect of the shock. He says they are not at all like her usual character. I
am sure it is not to be wondered at."

"O no, no," said Henrietta. "What a mystery it has always seemed to us about papa! She sometimes
mentioning him in talking about her childish days and Knight Sutton, but if we tried to ask
any more, grandmamma stopping us directly, till we learned to believe we ought never to utter
his name. I do believe, though, that mamma herself would have found it a comfort to talk to
us about him, if poor dear grandmamma had not always cut her short, for fear it should be too
much for her."

"But had you not always an impression of something dreadful about his death?"

"O yes, yes; I do not know how we acquired it, but that I am sure we had, and it made us shrink
from asking any questions, or even from talking to each other about it. All I knew I heard
from Beatrice. Did Uncle Geoffrey tell you this?"

"Yes, he told me when he was here last Easter, and I was asking him to speak to mamma about
my fishing, and saying how horrid it was to be kept back from everything. First he laughed,
and said it was the penalty of being an only son, and then he entered upon this history, to
show me how it is."

"But it is very odd that she should have let you learn to ride, which one would have thought
she would have dreaded most of all."

"That was because she thought it right, he says. Poor mamma, she said to him, 'Geoffrey, if
you think it right that Fred should begin to ride, never mind my folly.' He says that he thinks
it cost her as much resolution to say that as it might to be martyred. And the same about going
to school."

"Yes, yes; exactly," said Henrietta, "if she thinks it is right, bear it she will, cost her
what it may! O there is nobody like mamma. Busy Bee says so, and she knows, living in London
and seeing so many people as she does."

"I never saw anyone so like a queen," said Fred. "No, nor anyone so beautiful, though she is
so pale and thin. People say you are like her in her young days, Henrietta; and to be sure,
you have a decent face of your own, but you will never be as beautiful as mamma, not if you
live to be a hundred."

"You are afraid to compliment my face because it is so like your own, Master Fred," retorted
his sister; "but one comfort is, that I shall grow more like her by living to a hundred, whereas
you will lose all the little likeness you have, and grow a grim old Black-beard! But I was
going to say, Fred, that, though I think there is a great deal of truth in what Uncle Geoffrey
said, yet I do believe that poor grandmamma made it worse. You know she had always been in
India, and knew less about boys than mamma, who had been brought up with papa and my uncles,
so she might really believe that everything was dangerous; and I have often seen her quite
as much alarmed, or more perhaps, about you--her consolations just showing that she was in
a dreadful fright, and making mamma twice as bad." 

The Censorship of Appius is, however, memorable for the great public works which he executed.
He made the great military road called the Appian Way (Via Appia),
leading from Rome to Capua, a distance of 120 miles, which long afterward
was continued across the Apennines to Brundusium.

He also executed the first of the great aqueducts (Aqua Appia) which supplied Rome with such
an abundance of water.

Cn. Flavius, the son of a Freedman, and Secretary to Appius Claudius,
divulged the forms and times to be observed in legal proceedings.

"Till now, I really believe," said Henrietta, "that the possibility of moving has entirely
passed out of her mind, and she no more believes that she can do it than that the house can."

"Yes," said Fred, "I do not think a journey occurs to her among events possible, and yet without
being very fond of this place."

"Fond! O no! it never was meant to be a home, and has nothing homelike about it! All her affections
are really at Knight Sutton, and if she once went there, she would stay and be so much happier
among her own friends, instead of being isolated here with me. In grandmamma's time it was
not so bad for her, but now she has no companion at all but me. Rocksand has all the loneliness
of the country without its advantages."

"There is not much complaint as to happiness, after all," said Fred.

"No, O no! but then it is she who makes it delightful, and it cannot be well for her to have
no one to depend upon but me. Besides, how useless one is here. No opportunity of doing anything
for the poor people, no clergyman who will put one into the way of being useful. O how nice
it would be at Knight Sutton!"

"And perhaps she would be cured of her fears," added Fred; "she would find no one to share
them, and be convinced by seeing that the cousins there come to no harm. I wish Uncle Geoffrey
would recommend it!"

"Well, we will see what we can do," said Henrietta. "I do think we may persuade her, and I
think we ought; it would be for her happiness and for yours, and on all accounts I am convinced
that it ought to be done."

And as Henrietta came to this serious conclusion, they entered the steep straggling street
of the little town of Rocksand, and presently were within the gates of the sweep which led
to the door of the verandahed Gothic cottage, which looked very tempting for summer's lodging,
but was little fitted for a permanent abode.

In spite of all the longing wishes expressed during the drive, no ancestral home, beloved by
inheritance, could have been entered with more affectionate rapture than that with which Frederick
Langford sprung from the carriage, and flew to the arms of his mother, receiving and returning
such a caress as could only be known by a boy conscious that he had done nothing to forfeit
home love and confidence.

Turning back the fair hair that hung over his forehead, Mrs. Langford looked into his eyes,
saying, half-interrogatively, half-affirmatively, "All right, Fred? Nothing that we need be
afraid to tell Uncle Geoffrey? Well, Henrietta, he is grown, but he has not passed you yet.
And now, Freddy, tell us about your examination," added she, as fondly leaning on his arm,
she proceeded into the drawing-room, and they sat down together on the sofa, talking eagerly
and joyously.

Mrs. Frederick Henry Langford, to give her her proper style, was in truth one whose peculiar
loveliness of countenance well deserved the admiration expressed by her son. It was indeed
pale and thin, but the features were beautifully formed, and had that expression of sweet placid
resignation which would have made a far plainer face beautiful. The eyes were deep dark blue,
and though sorrow and suffering had dimmed their brightness, their softness was increased;
the smile was one of peace, of love, of serenity; of one who, though sorrow-stricken, as it
were, before her time, had lived on in meek patience and submission, almost a child in her
ways, as devoted to her mother, as little with a will and way of her own, as free from the
cares of this work-a-day world. The long luxuriant dark brown hair, which once, as now with
Henrietta, had clustered in thick glossy ringlets over her comb and round her face, was in
thick braids beneath the delicate lace cap which suited with her plain black silk dress. Her
figure was slender, so tall that neither her well-grown son nor daughter had yet reached her
height, and, as Frederick said, with something queenlike in its unconscious grace and dignity.

As a girl she had been the merriest of the merry, and even now she had great playfulness of
manner, and threw herself into the occupation of the moment with a life and animation that
gave an uncommon charm to her manners, so that how completely sorrow had depressed and broken
her spirit would scarcely have been guessed by one who had not known her in earlier days.

Frederick's account of his journey and of his school news was heard and commented on, a work
of time extending far into the dinner; the next matter in the regular course of conversation
on the day of arrival was to talk over Uncle and Aunt Geoffrey's proceedings, and the Knight
Sutton affairs.

"So, Uncle Geoffrey has been in the North?" said Fred.

"Yes, on a special retainer," said Mrs. Langford, "and very much he seems to have enjoyed his
chance of seeing York Cathedral."

"He wrote to me in court," said Fred, "to tell me what books I had better get up for this examination,
and on a bit of paper scribbled all over one side with notes of the evidence. He said the Cathedral
was beautiful beyond all he ever imagined."

"Had he never seen it before?" said Henrietta. "Lawyers seem made to travel in their vacations."

"Uncle Geoffrey could not be spared," said her mamma; "I do not know what Grandmamma Langford
would do if he cheated her of any more of his holidays than he bestows upon us. He is far too
valuable to be allowed to take his own pleasure."

"Besides, his own pleasure is at Knight Sutton," said Henrietta.

"He goes home just as he used from school," said Mrs. Langford. "Indeed, except a few grey
hairs and crows feet, he is not in the least altered from those days; his work and play come
in just the same way."

"And, as his daughter says, he is just as much the home pet," added Henrietta, "only rivalled
by Busy Bee herself."

"No," said Fred, "according to Aunt Geoffrey, there are two suns in one sphere: Queen Bee is
grandpapa's pet, Uncle Geoffrey grandmamma's. It must be great fun to see them."

"Happy people!" said Mrs. Langford.

"Henrietta says," proceeded Fred, "that there is a house to be let at Knight Sutton."

"The Pleasance; yes, I know it well," said his mother: "it is not actually in the parish, but
close to the borders, and a very pretty place."

"With a pretty little stream in the garden, Fred, "said Henrietta, "and looking into that beautiful
Sussex coom, that there is a drawing of in mamma's room."

"What size is it?" added Fred.

"The comparative degree," said Mrs. Langford, "but my acquaintance with it does not extend
beyond the recollection of a pretty-looking drawing-room with French windows, and a lawn where
I used to be allowed to run about when I went with Grandmamma Langford to call on the old Miss
Drakes. I wonder your Uncle Roger does not take it, for those boys can scarcely, I should think,
be wedged into Sutton Leigh when they are all at home."

"I wish some one else would take it," said Fred.

"Some one," added Henrietta, "who would like it of all things, and be quite at home there."

"A person," proceeded the boy, "who likes Knight Sutton and its inhabitants better than anything
else."

"Only think," joined in the young lady, "how delightful it would be. I can just fancy you,
mamma, sitting out on this lawn you talk of, on a summer's day, and nursing your pinks and
carnations, and listening to the nightingales, and Grandpapa and Grandmamma Langford, and Uncle
and Aunt Roger, and the cousins coming walking in at any time without ringing at the door!
And how nice to have Queen Bee and Uncle and Aunt Geoffrey all the vacation!"

"Without feeling as if we were robbing Knight Sutton," said Mrs. Langford. "Why, we should
have you a regular little country maid, Henrietta, riding shaggy ponies, and scrambling over
hedges, as your mamma did before you."

"And being as happy as a queen," said Henrietta; "and the poor people, you know them all, don't
you, mamma?"

"I know their names, but my generation must have nearly passed away. But I should like you
to see old Daniels the carpenter, whom the boys used to work with, and who was so fond of them.
And the old schoolmistress in her spectacles. How she must be scandalized by the introduction
of a noun and a verb!"

"Who has been so cruel?" asked Fred. "Busy Bee, I suppose."

"Yes," said Henrietta, "she teaches away with all her might; but she says she is afraid they
will forget it all while she is in London, for there is no one to keep it up. Now, I could
do that nicely. How I should like to be Queen Bee's deputy."

"But," said Fred, "how does Beatrice manage to make grandmamma endure such novelties? I should
think she would disdain them more than the old mistress herself."

"Queen Bee's is not merely a nominal sovereignty," said Mrs. Langford.

"Besides," said Henrietta, "the new Clergyman approves of all that sort of thing; he likes
her to teach, and puts her in the way of it."

CHAPTER II.

