A HOUSE OF POMEGRANATES

Contents:

The Young King The Birthday of the Infanta The Fisherman and his Soul The Star-child

THE YOUNG KING

[TO MARGARET LADY BROOKE--THE RANEE OF SARAWAK]

It was the night before the day fixed for his coronation, and the young King was sitting alone
in his beautiful chamber.  His courtiers had all taken their leave of him, bowing their heads
to the ground, according to the ceremonious usage of the day, and had retired to the Great
Hall of the Palace, to receive a few last lessons from the Professor of Etiquette; there being
some of them who had still quite natural manners, which in a courtier is, I need hardly say,
a very grave offence. 

It was founded by the Emperor Frederick III., who spared no expense to enrich it with printed books
as well as manuscripts in every language. By the munificence of succeeding emperors, numerous
important and valuable accessions were made to the collection; amongst which may be mentioned the
large and interesting library of Prince Eugene, and a considerable
portion of the Buda Library, founded by Matthias Corvinus, King of
Hungary.

The Imperial Library occupies eight spacious apartments, and a ninth is appropriated to a very valuable
collection of medals and other curiosities. Besides the cabinet of medals, there is also attached
to the library a superb collection of engravings, consisting of 473 large folio volumes, 510
volumes of different sizes, and 215 folio cartoons. The collection of music contains upwards
of 6000 volumes, theoretical and practical; and that of autographs exceeds 8000 pieces, classed
under the heads of monarchs and princes, ministers and statesmen, poets, philosophers, and
men of learning or science, generals and renowned warriors, artists,
musicians, and others.

11. Royal Library, Munich.--This is the most extensive collection in Germany. It was founded in
1550, and is very complete in all its departments.

The ancient manuscripts relative to the art of music amount to a great number, and are exceedingly
curious.

12. University Library, Gottingen.--The library attached to the University of Gottingen contains 360,000
printed volumes, and 3000 volumes of manuscripts. But its extent is its least recommendation, for it
is not only the most complete among those of the universities, but there are very few royal
or public collections in Germany which can rival it in real utility;
and if not in Germany, where else?

It is not rich in manuscripts, and many libraries surpass it in typographical rarities, but none
contains so great a number of really useful books in almost every branch of human knowledge.
This library is mainly indebted for the preëminence it has obtained to the labors and exertions
of the illustrious Heyne.

In the year in which he came to Gottingen as second librarian, the entire control of the library
was committed to him, and he became chief. From this moment commenced at once its extension
and its improvement. When Heyne went to Gottingen, it already possessed a library of from 50,000
to 60,000 volumes; at his decease it had increased, according to the most moderate computation,
to upwards of 200,000 volumes. Nor was this all. At the commencement of his librarianship entire
departments of learning were wholly wanting; at its close, not only were these deficiencies supplied,
but the library had become proportionally rich in every department,
and, in point of completeness, unrivalled.

Fortunately, Heyne's place has been filled by worthy successors, and the reputation of the collection
is still as great as ever.

13. Royal Library, Dresden.--The king of Saxony's library at Dresden contains 300,000 volumes of printed
books, and 2800 volumes of manuscripts. The valuable library that formerly
belonged to Count Beurau forms part of this noble collection, which is most
complete in general history, and in Greek and Latin classic authors. Amongst
the printed books are some of the rarest specimens of early typography,
including 600 of the Aldine editions, and many on vellum, besides
a copy of the first edition of the "Orlando Furioso," printed by Mazocco,
"coll' assistenza dell'autore," in 1516, and other rarities.

In the department of manuscripts are a Mexican manuscript, written on human skin, containing,
according to Thevenot, a calendar, with some fragments of the history of the Incas; the original
manuscript of the "Reveries" of Marshal Saxe, bearing at the end that he had composed this work
in thirteen nights during a fever, and completed it in December 1733; a fine copy of the Koran,
taken from a Turk by a Saxon officer at the last siege of Vienna,
and said to have formerly belonged to Bajazet II.; and a Greek manuscript
of the Epistles of St. Paul of the eleventh century.

Many curious stories were related about him at this period.  It was said that a stout Burgo-master,
who had come to deliver a florid oratorical address on behalf of the citizens of the town,
had caught sight of him kneeling in real adoration before a great picture that had just been
brought from Venice, and that seemed to herald the worship of some new gods.  On another occasion
he had been missed for several hours, and after a lengthened search had been discovered in
a little chamber in one of the northern turrets of the palace gazing, as one in a trance, at
a Greek gem carved with the figure of Adonis. No one of the libraries of the first class now
in existence dates beyond the fifteenth century. The Vatican, the origin of which has been frequently
carried back to the days of St. Hilarius in 465, cannot with any propriety be said to have deserved
the name of library before the reign of Pope Martin V., by whose order it was removed in 1417
from Avignon to Rome.

And even then a strict attention to exactitude would require us to
withhold from it this title until the period of its final organization
by Nicholas V. in 1447.

It is difficult to speak with certainty concerning the libraries, whether public or private, supposed
to have existed previous to the fifteenth century, both on account of the doubtful authority
and indefiniteness of the passages in which they are mentioned, and the custom which so readily
obtained in those dark ages of dignifying with the name of library every petty collection of
insignificant codices. But many libraries of the fifteenth century being in existence, and
others having been preserved long enough to make them the subject of historical inquiry before
their dissolution, it becomes easier to fix with satisfactory accuracy the date of their foundation.
We find, accordingly, that during the fifteenth century ten libraries
were formed: the Vatican at Rome, the Laurentian at Florence, the
Imperial of Vienna and Ratisbon, the University at Turin, the Malatestiana
at Cesena, the Marciana at Venice, the Bodleian at Oxford, the University
at Copenhagen, and the City at Frankfort on the Maine.

The Palatine of Heidelberg was founded in 1390, dispersed in 1623,
restored in 1652, and augmented in 1816.

The increase of the libraries of Europe has generally been slowly
progressive, although there have been periods of sudden augmentation
in nearly all of them.

They began with a small number of manuscripts; sometimes with a few, and often without any
printed works. To these gradual accessions were made from the different sources which have
always been more or less at the command of sovereigns and nobles.

In 1455 the Vatican contained 5000 manuscripts.

In 1685, after an interval of more than two centuries, the number of its manuscripts had only
risen to 16,000, and that of the printed volumes did not exceed 25,000. In 1789, but little
more than a century later, the number of manuscripts had been doubled, and the printed volumes
amounted to 40,000.

Far different was the progress of the Royal, or as it is now called,
the National Library of Paris.

The origin of this institution is placed in the year 1595--the date of its removal from Fontainebleau
to Paris by order of Henry IV. In 1660 it contained only 1435 printed volumes. In the course of
the following year this number was raised to 16,746, both printed volumes and manuscripts.
During the ensuing eight years the library was nearly doubled; and
before the close of the subsequent century, it was supposed to have
been augmented by upwards of 100,000 volumes.

In most cases the chief sources of these augmentations have been individual
legacies and the purchase of private collections.

Private libraries, as our readers are doubtless well aware, began to be formed long before public
ones were thought of. Like these, they have their origin in the taste,
or caprice, or necessities of their founders, and are of more or
less value, as one or the other of these motives has presided over
their formation.

But when formed by private students with a view to bring together
all that has been written upon some single branch of science, or by
amateurs skilled in the principles of bibliography, they become more
satisfactory and complete than they could possibly be made under any
other circumstances.

Few of them, however, are preserved long after the death of the original collector; but falling
into the hands of heirs possessed of different tastes and feelings,
are either sold off by auction, or restored to the shelves of the
bookseller.  They stretched out their lean arms and pulled the heavy oars through
the water.  The salt spray flew from the blades.

At last they reached a little bay, and began to take soundings.  A light wind blew from the
shore, and covered the deck and the great lateen sail with a fine red dust.  Three Arabs mounted
on wild asses rode out and threw spears at them.  The master of the galley took a painted bow
in his hand and shot one of them in the throat. He fell heavily into the surf, and his companions
galloped away.  A woman wrapped in a yellow veil followed slowly on a camel, looking back now
and then at the dead body.

As soon as they had cast anchor and hauled down the sail, the negroes went into the hold and
brought up a long rope-ladder, heavily weighted with lead.  The master of the galley threw
it over the side, making the ends fast to two iron stanchions.  Then the negroes seized the
youngest of the slaves and knocked his gyves off, and filled his nostrils and his ears with
wax, and tied a big stone round his waist.  He crept wearily down the ladder, and disappeared
into the sea.  A few bubbles rose where he sank.  Some of the other slaves peered curiously
over the side.  At the prow of the galley sat a shark-charmer, beating monotonously upon a drum.

After some time the diver rose up out of the water, and clung panting to the ladder with a
pearl in his right hand.  The negroes seized it from him, and thrust him back.  The slaves
fell asleep over their oars.

Again and again he came up, and each time that he did so he brought with him a beautiful pearl.
The master of the galley weighed them, and put them into a little bag of green leather. 

This rendezvous was not the first, for Maulear knew the secret of the veil he had found on the
terrace on the first night he had passed at Sorrento. The veil belonged to Aminta, and the
flitting shadow he had seen was the lady's self. Her accomplice was
Gaetano.

How could he doubt? Interrupted in their first intercourse by Maulear, they expected on another
occasion to be more fortunate. No, cried he, that shall not be, they will find me between themselves
and happiness. I wish them to at least learn, that I am not their dupe. I will cover her snowy
brow with a blush, and avenge myself by disclosing to her my knowledge of her secret. But
how could he surprise them?

Would they dare to cross the terrace again? Perhaps, though, they can meet nowhere else. If
so, they will brave every thing, and in that case I must not alarm them. The Marquis took the
taper, which lighted his chamber, and placed it in a back room, which
opened on the interior corridor of the house.

Carefully opening the terrace window, he took refuge behind a group of trees, exactly opposite
his room.

The clock of Sorrento struck three--the night was clear and brilliant,
and the sky was strewn with diamond stars--the air was soft and warm.

It was a night for love and lovers.

To Maulear it was a night of agony and torture. All around was so calm and tranquil that the slightest
noise fell on his ear,--he soon heard a door open. Maulear fixed his eyes on the point of the
terrace from which the sound proceeded--his whole existence seemed concentrated in the single sense
of sight. Something cloudlike, vapory and undefinable, which seemed
too ethereal for earth, gradually appeared at the extreme end of the
terrace.

This mysterious figure seemed to glide, rather than walk, towards the place where Maulear was concealed;
it approached him slowly, without motion or sound to betray its steps.
Wrapped in long white drapery, like a mantle of vapor, resembling
those creations of Ossian which formed often the clouds of evening;
in short, one might have believed that she had risen from the earth,
and had come to dissolve under the first rays of the sun, or of the
moon.

The phantom disappeared for a few seconds, amidst a dark grove, which projected on the terrace
the lofty trunks of large forest trees--but when she emerged from their shade, and re-entered
that portion of the terrace light and brilliant, she approached so
near to Maulear, that he was enabled to examine and recognize her.

This graceful and vapory phantom was Aminta. Maulear expected it, but
he felt not the less a distressing grief, in thus recognizing her.

It seemed to him that the last plank of the wreck had broken under his feet, and that he had fallen
into the depth of despair. But soon anger smothered the last cry of a love now no longer felt--and Maulear
rushed in pursuit of Aminta, when he saw her, to his great surprise,
stop before the window of his apartment.

Then reaching out her hand she pushed open the door and entered the
room, which was partially lighted by the moon.

"What is she doing," said Maulear, with amazement, "what business
has she in this room?"

An idea struck him. My presentiment did not
deceive me.  Get thee gone, and come here no more.'

'Nay,' answered Death, 'but till thou hast given me a grain of corn I will not go.'

But Avarice shut her hand, and clenched her teeth.  'I will not give thee anything,' she muttered.

And Death laughed, and took up a black stone, and threw it into the forest, and out of a thicket
of wild hemlock came Fever in a robe of flame.  She passed through the multitude, and touched
them, and each man that she touched died.  The grass withered beneath her feet as she walked.

And Avarice shuddered, and put ashes on her head.  'Thou art cruel,' she cried; 'thou art cruel. All
the latest procedures of his life occurred to him. And in the kind of delusion caused by
long-lasting meditation, alert as he was, he entered the land of dreams. He seemed to see two genii
looking for, the one to pull him to paradise and the other towards
the deep hole.

And Death laughed again, and he whistled through his fingers, and a woman came flying through
the air. I came to know yesterday the rumour that our ring was beaten by Count Mone -Leone,
their indtention is me only because I have brought the precious jewel to
confuse them.

No one can stand aginst the effect of Giacomo's words.

