ON SOMETHING

                                 BY

                              H. BELLOC

                             DEDICATION

                                To
                              Somebody

         CONTENTS

A PLEA FOR THE SIMPLER DRAMA

ON A NOTEBOOK

ON UNKNOWN PEOPLE

ON A VAN TROMP

HIS CHARACTER

ON THRUPPENNY BITS

ON THE HOTEL AT PALMA AND A PROPOSED GUIDE-BOOK

THE DEATH OF WANDERING PETER

THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE

A NORFOLK MAN

THE ODD PEOPLE

LETTER OF ADVICE AND APOLOGY TO A YOUNG BURGLAR

THE MONKEY QUESTION: AN APPEAL TO COMMON SENSE

THE EMPIRE BUILDER

CAEDWALLA

A UNIT OF ENGLAND

THE RELIC

THE IRONMONGER

A FORCE IN GAUL

ON BRIDGES

A BLUE BOOK

PERIGEUX OF THE PERIGORD

THE POSITION

HOME

THE WAY TO FAIRYLAND

THE PORTRAIT OF A CHILD

ON EXPERIENCE

ON IMMORTALITY

ON SACRAMENTAL THINGS

IN PATRIA

Of the various sketches in this book some appear for the first time, others are reprinted by
courtesy of the Proprietors and Editors of The Westminster Gazette, The Clarion, The English
Review, The Morning Post and The Manchester Guardian, in which papers they appeared.

A PLEA FOR THE SIMPLER DRAMA

It is with the drama as with plastic art and many other things: the plain man feels that he
has a right to put in his word, but he is rather afraid that the art is beyond him, and he
is frightened by technicalities.

After all, these things are made for the plain man; his applause, in the long run and duly
tested by time, is the main reward of the dramatist as of the painter or the sculptor. But
if he is sensible he knows that his immediate judgment will be crude. However, here goes.

The plain man sees that the drama of his time has gradually passed from one phase to another
of complexity in thought coupled with simplicity of incident, and it occurs to him that just
one further step is needed to make something final in British art. We seem to be just on the
threshold of something which would give Englishmen in the twentieth century something of the
fullness that characterized the Elizabethans: but somehow or other our dramatists hesitate
to cross that threshold. It cannot be that their powers are lacking: it can only be some timidity
or self-torture which it is the business of the plain man to exorcise.

If I may make a suggestion in this essay to the masters of the craft it is that the goal of
the completely modern thing can best be reached by taking the very simplest themes of daily
life--things within the experience of the ordinary citizen--and presenting them in the majestic
traditional cadence of that peculiarly English medium, blank verse.

As to the themes taken from the everyday life of middle-class men and women like ourselves,
it is true that the lives of the wealthy afford more incident, and that there is a sort of
glamour about them which it is difficult to resist. But with a sufficient subtlety the whole
poignancy of the lives led by those who suffer neither the tragedies of the poor nor the exaltation
of the rich can be exactly etched. The life of the professional middle-class, of the business
man, the dentist, the money-lender, the publisher, the spiritual pastor, nay of the playwright
himself, might be put upon the stage--and what a vital change would be here! Here would be
a kind of literary drama of which the interest would lie in the struggle, the pain, the danger,
and the triumph which we all so intimately know, and next in the satisfaction (which we now
do not have) of the mimetic sense--the satisfaction of seeing a mirror held up to a whole audience
composed of the very class represented upon the stage.

I have seen men of wealth and position absorbed in plays concerning gambling, cruelty, cheating,
drunkenness, and other sports, and so absorbed chiefly because they saw themselves depicted
upon the stage; and I ask, Would not my fellows and myself largely remunerate a similar opportunity?
For though the rich go repeatedly to the play, yet the middle-class are so much more numerous
that the difference is amply compensated.

I think we may take it, then, that an experiment in the depicting of professional life would,
even from the financial standpoint, be workable; and I would even go so far as to suggest that
a play could be written in which there did not appear one single lord, general, Member of Parliament,
baronet, professional beauty, usurer (upon a large scale at least) or Cabinet Minister.

The thing is possible: and I can modestly say that in the little effort appended as an example
to these lines it has been done successfully; but here must be mentioned the second point in
my thesis--I could never have achieved what I have here achieved in dramatic art had I not
harked back to the great tradition of the English heroic decasyllable such as our Shakespeare
has handled with so felicitous an effect.

The play--which I have called "The Crisis," and which I design to be the model of the school
founded by these present advices--is specially designed for acting with the sumptuous accessories
at the disposal of a great manager, such as Mr. (now Sir Henry) Beerbohm Tree, or for the narrower
circumstances of the suburban drawing-room.

There is perhaps but one character which needs any long rehearsal, that of the dog Fido, and
luckily this is one which can easily be supplied by mechanical means, as by the use of a toy
dog of sufficient size which barks upon the pressure of a pneumatic attachment.

In connexion with this character I would have the student note that I have introduced into
the dog's part just before the curtain a whole line of dactyls. I hope the hint will not be
wasted. Such exceptions relieve the monotony of our English trochees. But, saving in this instance,
I have confined myself throughout to the example of William Shakespeare, surely the best master
for those who, as I fondly hope, will follow me in the regeneration of the British Stage.

THE CRISIS

PLACE: The Study at the Vicarage. TIME 9.15 p.m.

DRAMATIS PERSONA

THE REV. ARCHIBALD HAVERTON: The Vicar.

MRS. HAVERTON: His Wife.

MISS GROSVENOR: A Governess.

MATILDA: A Maid.

FIDO: A Dog.

HERMIONE COBLEY: Daughter of a cottager who takes in washing.

MISS HARVEY: A guest, cousin to Mrs. Haverton, a Unitarian.

(The REV. ARCHIBALD HAVERTON is reading the "Standard" by a lamp
  with a green shade. MRS. HAVERTON is hemming a towel. FIDO
  is asleep on the rug. On the walls are three engravings from Landseer,
  a portrait of Her late Majesty Queen Victoria, a bookcase with books in
  it, and a looking-glass.)

  MRS. HAVERTON: My dear--I hope I do not interrupt you--
Helen has given notice.

  REV. A. HAVERTON (looking up suddenly).
                                        Given notice?
Who? Helen? Given notice? Bless my soul!
  (A pause.)
I never thought that she would give us notice.
  (Ponders and frowns.)

  MRS. HAVERTON: Well, but she has, and now the question is,
What shall we do to find another cook?
Servants are very difficult to get. (Sighs.)
Especially to come into the country
To such a place as this. (Sighs.) No wonder, either!
Oh! Mercy! When one comes to think of it,
One cannot blame them. (Sighs.) Heaven only knows
I try to do my duty! (Sighs profoundly.)

  REV. A. HAVERTON (uneasily): Well, my dear,
I cannot make preferment.

(Front door-bell rings.)

  FIDO:                               Bow! wow! wow!

  REV. A. HAVERTON (patting him to soothe him):
    There, Fido, there!

  FIDO:                               Wow! wow!

  REV. A. HAVERTON:                   Good dog, there!

  FIDO:                                               Wow,
    Wow, wow!

  REV. A. HAVERTON (very nervous): There!

  FIDO:                                   Wow! wow!

  REV. A. HAVERTON (in an agony):  Good dog!

  FIDO:                              Bow! wow! wow!
    Wow, wow! Wow!! WOW!!!

  MRS. HAVERTON (very excited): Oh, Lord, he'll
    wake the children!

  REV. A. HAVERTON (exploding): How often have
    I told you, Dorothy,
Not to exclaim "Good Lord!"... Apart from manners--
Which have their own importance--blasphemy
(And I regard the phrase as blasphemous)
Cannot--

  MRS. HAVERTON (uneasily): Oh, very well!...
    Oh, very well!
      (Exploding in her turn.)
Upon my soul, you are intolerable!
      (She jumps up and makes for the door. Before she gets to
        it there is a knock and MATILDA enters.)

  MATILDA: Please, m'm, it's only Mrs. Cobley's daughter
To say the washing shall be sent to-morrow,
And would you check the list again and see,
Because she thinks she never had two collars
Of what you sent, but only five, because
You marked it seven; and Mrs. Cobley says
There must be some mistake.

  REV. A. HAVERTON (pompously): I will attend to it.

  MRS. HAVERTON (whispering angrily): How can
    you, Archibald! You haven't got
The ghost of an idea about the washing!
Sit down. (He does so.) (To Matilda) Send the
    Girl in here.

  MRS. HAVERTON sits down in a fume.

  REV. A. HAVERTON: I think....

  MRS. HAVERTON (snapping): I don't care what you think!
      (Groans.)   Oh, dear!
I'm nearly off my head!

      Enter MISS COBLEY. (She bobs.)

                                Good evening, m'm.

  MRS. HAVERTON (by way of reply):
Now, then! What's all this fuss about the washing?

  MISS COBLEY: Please, m'm, the seven collars, what you sent--
I mean the seven what was marked--was wrong,
And mother says as you'd have had the washing
Only there weren't but five, and would you mind....

  MRS. HAVERTON (sharply): I cannot understand a word you say.
Go back and tell your mother there were seven.
And if she sends home five she pays for two.
So there!  (Snorts.)

  MISS COBLEY (sobbing): I'm sure I....

  MRS. HAVERTON (savagely): Don't stand snuffling there!
Go back and tell your mother what I say....
Impudent hussy!...

      (Exit MISS COBLEY sobbing. A pause.)

  REV. A. HAVERTON (with assumed authority): To return to Helen.
Tell me concisely and without complaints,
Why did she give you notice?

      (A hand-bell rings in the passage.)

  FIDO:                             Bow-wow-wow!

  REV. A. HAVERTON (giving him a smart kick): Shurrup!

  FIDO (howling). Pen-an'-ink! Pen-an'-ink
                            Pen-an'-ink! Pen-an'-ink!

  REV. A. HAVERTON (controlling himself, as well as he can, goes to
    the door and calls into the passage): Miss Grosvenor!
(Louder) ... Miss Grosvenor!... Was that the bell for prayers?
Was that the bell for prayers?... (Louder) Miss Grosvenor.
(Louder) Miss Gros-ve-nor! (Tapping with his foot.)
    Oh!...

  MISS GROSVENOR (sweetly and, far off): Is that Mr. Haverton?

  REV. A. HAVERTON: Yes! yes! yes! yes!...
Was that the bell for prayers?

  MISS GROSVENOR (again): Yes? Is that Mr. Haverton? Oh! Yes!
I think it is.... I'll see--I'll ask Matilda.

      (A pause, during which the REV. A. HAVERTON
        is in a qualm.)

  MISS GROSVENOR (rustling back): Matilda says it
    is the bell for prayers.

      (They all come filing into the study and arranging the chairs.
        As they enter MISS HARVEY, the guest, treads heavily on
        MATILDA'S foot.)

  MISS HARVEY: Matilda? Was that you? I beg your pardon.

  MATILDA (limping): Granted, I'm sure, miss!

  MRS. HAVERTON (whispering to the REV. A. HAVERTON): Do not read
    the Creed!
Miss Harvey is a Unitarian.
I should suggest some simple form of prayer,
Some heartfelt word of charity and peace
Common to every Christian.

  REV. A. HAVERTON (in a deep voice): Let us pray.

                         Curtain.

ON A NOTEBOOK

A dear friend of mine (John Abdullah Capricorn, to give him his full name) was commandeered
by a publisher last year to write a book for L10. The work was far advanced when an editor
offered him L15 and his expenses to visit the more desperate parts of the Sahara Desert, to
which spots he at once proceeded upon a roving commission. Whether he will return or no is
now doubtful, though in March we had the best hopes. With the month of May life becomes hard
for Europeans south of the Atlas, and when my poor dear friend was last heard of he was chancing
his popularity with a tribe of Touaregs about two hundred miles south of Touggourt.

Under these circumstances I was asked to look through his notebook and see what could be done;
and I confess to a pleased surprise.... It would have been a very entertaining book had it
been published. It will be a very entertaining book if it is published.

Capricorn seems to have prepared a hotchpotch of information of human follies, of contrasts,
and of blunt stupidities of which he intended to make a very entertaining series of pages.
I have not his talent for bringing such things together, but it may amuse the reader if I merely
put in their order one or two of the notes which most struck me.

I find first, cut out of a newspaper and pasted into the book (many of his notes are in this
form), the following really jovial paragraph:

"Archdeacon Blunderbuss (Blunderbuss is not the real name; I suppress that lest Capricorn's
widow should lose her two or three pounds, in case the poor fellow has really been eaten).
Archdeacon Blunderbuss was more distinguished as a scholar than as a Divine. He was a very
poor preacher and never managed to identify himself with any party. Nevertheless, in 1895 the
Prime Minister appointed him to a stall in Shoreham Cathedral as a recognition of his great
learning and good work at Durham. Two years later the rectory of St. Vacuums becoming vacant
and it being within the gift of Archdeacon Blunderbuss, he excited general amazement and much
scandal by presenting himself to the living."

There the paragraph ends. It came in an ordinary society paper. It bore no marks of ill-will.
It came in the midst of a column of the usual silly adulation of everybody and everything;
how it got there is of no importance. There it stood and the keen eye of Capricorn noted it
and treasured it for years.

I will make no comment upon this paragraph. It may be read slowly or quickly, according to
the taste of the reader; it is equally delicious either way.

The next excerpt I find in the notebook is as follows:

"More than 15,000,000 visits are paid annually to London pawnbrokers.

"Jupiter is 1387 times as big as the earth, but only 300 times as heavy.

"The world's coal mines yield 400,000,000 tons of coal a year.

"The value of the pictures in the National Gallery is about L1,250,000."

This tickled Capricorn--I don't know why. Perhaps he thought the style disjointed or perhaps
he had got it into his head that when this information had been absorbed by the vulgar they
would stand much where they stood before, and be no nearer the end of man nor the accomplishment
of any Divine purpose in their creation. Anyhow he kept it, and I think he was wise to keep
it. One cannot keep everything of that kind that is printed, so it is well to keep a specimen.
Capricorn had, moreover, intended to perpetuate that specimen for ever in his immortal prose--pray
Heaven he may return to do so!

I next find the following excerpt from an evening paper:

"No more gallant gentleman lives on the broad acres of his native England than Brigadier-General
Sir Hammerthrust Honeybubble, who is one of the few survivors of the great charge at Tamulpuco,
a feat of arms now half forgotten, but with which England rang during the Brazilian War. Brigadier-General,
or, as he then was, plain Captain Hammerthrust Honeybubble, passed through five Brazilian batteries
unharmed, and came back so terribly hacked that his head was almost severed from his body.
Hardly able to keep his seat and continually wiping the blood from his left eye, he rode back
to his troop at a walk, and, in spite of pursuit, finally completed his escape. Massachusetts has achieved much
in this respect; but when she shall have made high schools as free and universal as common schools,
and the attendance on both compulsory, so as to qualify every voter
for governing a State or nation, she will have made a still grander
step in material and intellectual progress, and the results would
be still more astounding.

By Table 35 of the Census, p. 195, the whole value of all the property,
real and personal, of Massachusetts, in 1860, was $815,237,433, and
that of Maryland, $376,919,944.

We have seen that the value of the products that year in Massachusetts was $287,000,000 (exclusive of commerce),
and of Maryland, $66,000,000. As a question, then, of profit on capital,
that of Massachusetts was 35 per cent., and of Maryland 17 per cent.
Such is the progressive advance (more than two to one) of free as
compared with slave labor.

The same law obtains in comparing all the Free with all the Slave States. But the proof is still more complete.
Thus, Delaware and Missouri (alone of all the Slave States) were
ahead of Maryland in this rate of profit, because both had comparatively
fewer slaves; and all the other Slave States, whose servile population
was relatively larger than that of Maryland, were below her in the
rate of profit.

The
law extends to counties, those having comparatively fewest slaves increasing
far more rapidly in wealth and population. This, then, is the formula
as to the rate of profit on capital.

First, the Free States; next, the States and counties of the same State having the fewest
relative number of slaves. The Census, then, is an evangel against slavery, and its tables are revelations
proclaiming laws as divine as those written by the finger of God at Mount Sinai on the tables of
stone.

For seventy years we have had these Census Tables, announcing these great truths more and more
clearly at each decade. They are the records of the nation's movement
and condition, the decennial monuments marking her steps in the path
of empire, the oracles of her destiny.

They are prophecies, for each decade fulfils the predictions of its predecessor. They announce laws,
not made by man, but the irrevocable ordinances of the Almighty. We cannot,
with impunity, refuse to obey these laws.

For every violation, they enforce their own penalties. From these there is no escape in the present or
the past, nor for the future, except in conformity to their demands.

These laws condemn slavery; and the punishment for disobedience is
recorded in the result of every Census, and finally culminated in
the rebellion.

Slavery and freedom are antagonistic and discordant elements: the
conflict between them is upon us; it admits of no neutrality or compromise,
and one or the other system must perish.

We
have seen that slavery is hostile to the progress of wealth and population:
let us now ascertain its influence on moral and intellectual development.

By
Table 15 of the Census of 1860, the result for that year was as follows:
In Massachusetts, value of books printed, $397,500; jobs, $529,347;
newspapers, $1,979,069; total, $2,905,916.

Same year in Maryland, books printed, $58,000; jobs, $122,000; newspapers, $169,000; total, $350,155.
By Table 37, Census of 1860, Massachusetts had 222 newspapers and
periodicals, of which 112 were political, 31 religious, 51 literary,
miscellaneous 28.

Maryland had only 57, all political. The whole number of copies issued in Massachusetts in 1860 was
102,000,760, and in Maryland, 20,721,472. Of periodicals, Massachusetts
has monthly, 1 political, 10 religious, 18 literary, 7 miscellaneous;
quarterly, religious 3, literary 2, miscellaneous 1, and 1 annual.

Maryland had none. Not a religious, literary, scientific, or miscellaneous periodical or journal in the
State! What terrible truths are unfolded in these statistics! None but
a political party press in Maryland, all devoted, in 1860, to the
maintenance, extension, and perpetuity of slavery, which had 57 advocates,
and not one for science, religion, or literature.

We have seen that the circulation in 1860 of the press in Massachusetts
exceeded that of Maryland by more than eighty-one millions of copies.
These facts all prove that slavery is hostile to knowledge and its
diffusion, to science, literature, and religion, to the press, and
to free government.

For schools, colleges, libraries, and churches, I must take the Tables of the Census of 1850, those of
1860 not being yet published. There were in 1850 in Massachusetts, 3,679 public schools, 4,443 teachers,
176,475 pupils; native adults who cannot read or write, 1,861.

In Maryland, 907 public schools, 1,005 teachers, 33,254 pupils; native
adults who cannot read or write, 38,426, excluding slaves, to teach
whom is criminal.

Thus, then, slavery is hostile to schools, withholding instruction from the children of the poor.

The number of public libraries in Massachusetts was 1,462, volumes 684,015.
In Maryland, 124, and 125,042 volumes.

Value of churches in Massachusetts, $10,206,000. In Maryland, $3,947,884,
of which $2,541,240 is in Baltimore (which has very few slaves), and
the remainder is mainly in the seven counties (from which slavery
has nearly disappeared) adjoining Pennsylvania.

As to schools, colleges, books, libraries, churches, newspapers, and
periodicals, it thus appears that Massachusetts is greatly in advance
of Maryland.

Now, then, let us contrast loyal Maryland with rebel South Carolina,
the author of secession, and assuming for many years to instruct the nation.
By the Census of 1860, she had a population of 703,708, of whom 402,406
were slaves; and Maryland, numbering 687,049, had 87,189 slaves.

Now,
by the Census of 1860, South Carolina had 45 journals and periodicals, and her annual circulation
was 3,654,840 copies. The circulation therefore of Massachusetts exceeded that of South Carolina more than
ninety-eight millions of copies, while Maryland exceeded South Carolina
more than seventeen millions of copies.

So
much for South Carolina as a great political teacher. As to schools
in 1850: South Carolina had 724 public schools, 739 teachers, 17,838
pupils. Massachusetts, then, had 158,637 more pupils at public schools
than South Carolina, and Maryland 15,416 more pupils at public schools
than South Carolina.

The press of Massachusetts, we have seen, circulated in 1860 upward
of one hundred and two millions of copies, equal to 279,454 per day, including
journals and periodicals, each read, on an average, by at least two
persons.

This is independent
of books and pamphlets, and of the very large circulation of papers from other States and from Europe. What
a flood of light is thus shed daily and hourly upon the people of Massachusetts!
This intellectual effulgence radiates by day and night. It is the sun in
its meridian splendor, and the stars in an ever-unclouded firmament.

It has a centre and a circumference, but no darkness. Ignorance vanishes before it; wealth
follows in its train; labor rejoices in its association, and finds
its products more than doubled; freedom hails its presence, and religion
gives it a cordial welcome; churches, schools, academies, colleges,
and universities acknowledge its mighty influence.

Science penetrates the secrets of nature, and unfolds each new discovery for the benefit of man. Coal, the
offspring of the sun, develops its latent energy, and water contributes
its untiring hydraulic power.

Machinery takes more and more the place of nerves and muscles, cheapens clothing and subsistence and all
the necessaries of life, and opens new fields of industry, and more
profitable employment for labor.

Steam and lightning become the slaves of man. He performs the journey
of a day in an hour, and converses in minutes around the globe.

The strength of man may not have been much increased, but his power is augmented a thousand fold.

His life may not have been materially lengthened, but, in the march
of knowledge, a year now is as a century, compared with man's progress
in the darkness of the middle ages.

The eternal advance toward omniscience goes on, but is like that
of the infinite approach of the asymptote, which never reaches the
hyperbolic curve.

The onward of science is in a geometrical ratio, so that in time,
the intellectual progress of a day in the future, must exceed that
of a century in the past.

Knowledge is enthroned as king, and grand truths and new ideas are his ministers. Science takes the diameter
of the earth's orbit as a base line and unit of measurement, and with it spans immensity, and triangulates
the nebulous systems amid the shadowy verges of receding space. Its researches
are cosmical upon the earth and the heavens, and all the elements
minister to its progress.

Sink to the lowest mine, or fathom the ocean's depth, or climb the loftiest mountains, or career through
the heavens on silken wings, and it is there also. On--on--on; nearer--nearer--still nearer it moves forever
and forever, with accelerated speed, toward the infinite eternal. Such are the triumphs of knowledge;
and he who diffuses it among our race, or discovers and disseminates
new truths, advances man nearer to his Creator; he exalts the whole
race; he elevates it in the scale of being, and raises it into higher and
still higher spheres.

It is science that marks the speed of sound and light and lightning,
calculates the eclipses, catalogues the stars, maps the heavens,
and follows, for centuries of the past and the future, the comet's
course.

It explores the animal, vegetable, and mineral kingdoms. With geology, it notes the earthquake
upheaval of mountains, and, with mineralogy, the laws of crystallization.

With chemistry, it analyzes, decomposes, and compounds the elements.

If, like Canute, it cannot arrest the tidal wave, it is subjecting it
to laws and formulas. Taking the sunbeam for its pencil, it heliographs
man's own image, and the scenery of the earth and the heavens.

Has science any limits or horizon? Can it ever penetrate the soul of man, and reveal the mystery of his
existence and destiny? It is certainly exploring the facts of sociology, arranging and generalizing
them, and deducing laws.

Man, elevated by knowledge in the scale of being, controls the forces of nature with greater power and
grander results, and accumulates wealth more rapidly. The educated free
labor of Massachusetts, we have seen, doubles the products of toil,
per capita, as compared with Maryland, and quadruples them (as the
Census shows) compared with South Carolina.

One day's labor of a man in Massachusetts is more than equal to two in Maryland, and four in South Carolina.
So, if we take our savage tribes, with their huts and tents, their
rude agriculture, their furs, their few and simple household manufactures,
their hunting and fishing, the average product of their annual labor, at
four cents a day each, would be $14.60 a year, or more than a fourth
of that of South Carolina (56.91).

So that Massachusetts, in material progress, is farther in advance of South Carolina than that
State is of the savage Indians.

Thus we have the successive steps and gradations of man: Massachusetts,
with free labor and free schools, having reached the highest point of civilization:
South Carolina, with slavery and ignorance (except the few), in a semi-barbarous
stage; and the lowest savage condition, called barbarous, but nearer
to South Carolina than that State to Massachusetts.

Slavery, then, the Census proves, is hostile to the progress of wealth
and population, to science, literature, and education, to schools,
colleges, and universities, to books and libraries, to churches and
religion, to the press, and therefore to free government; hostile to
the poor, keeping them in want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing
it to servitude, and decreasing two thirds the value of its products;
hostile to morals, repudiating among slaves the marital and parental
condition, classifying them by law as chattels, darkening the immortal
soul, and making it a crime to teach millions of human beings to read
or write.

And shall labor and education, literature and science, religion and the press, sustain an institution
which is their deadly foe?

The discussion will be continued in my next letter.

R. J. WALKER.

PALMER, THE AMERICAN SCULPTOR.

Sculpture as an art is probably anterior to painting.

Form being a simpler quality than color, the means of imitation were
found in a conformity of shape rather than hue.

The origin of sculpture is somewhat obscured in the thickening mists of antiquity,
but it was no doubt one of the earliest symbols of ideas made use
of by man. In fact, in its primitive development, there is considerable evidence
to show that it was the first essay at a recorded language.

The Egyptian hieroglyphics, those mysterious etchings upon the rock,
representing animals, men, and nondescript characters, were unquestionably
rude attempts to hand down to posterity some account of the great
events of those forgotten ages. The next remove in the history of this
art is its employment in the production of the images of idolatrous
worship; and, when confined to this purpose, it never attained any appreciable
excellence.

The purely heathen mind was incapable of conceiving those forms of ideal
beauty which are born of the contemplation of a divine and spiritual
beauty revealed in the word of God and the teachings of his immaculate
Son.

The grotesque Egyptian images worshipped on the Nile before the building
of the pyramids, are, judging from the best preserved antiquities, not
very much inferior to the gilded deities to be seen to-day in the
thousand pagodas of heathen lands.

Take for example a Chinese idol of modern make: while it is less angular and more
elaborately finished than the ancient monstrosities found in Egypt, still,
so far as perfection of form or beauty of expression is concerned,
there is little to choose between the two.

Each is a fitting type of the degree of civilization and soul culture of
the peoples that produced them. It must not be urged that the success
of sculpture in Greece and Rome disproves the proposition that the art could
not develop itself among a strictly idolatrous race.

The splendid mythologies of the Greeks and Romans must not be considered
as the highest forms even of the worship of idols or inanimate things.
The gods and goddesses of these mythological systems were principally
the powers that were supposed to preside over the different forces
and elements of nature, and were invested with the celestial attributes
of a higher order of beings.

Neptune
ruled the sea, Pluto was director of ceremonies in the infernal regions,
while Jupiter was emperor of the sky and king of all the lesser gods.
These deities were the invention of a cultivated intellect, a refined
taste and polished civilization, and furnish a striking proof of man's
longing after the Infinite, unguided by the star of revelation. It was a Dutch picture
of the seventeenth century; and since the laws of this country are very complicated and the
sanctions attached to them very terrible, I will not give the name of the original artist,
but I will call him Van Tromp.

Van Tromps have always been recognized, and there was a moment about fifty years after the
artist's death when they had a considerable vogue in the French Court. Monsieur, who was quite
ignorant of such things, bought a couple, and there is a whole row of them in the little pavilion
at Louveciennes. Van Tromp has something about him at once positive and elusive; he is full
of planes and values, and he interprets and renders, and the rest of it. Nay, he transfers!

About thirty years ago Mr. Mayor (of Hildesheim and London) thought it his duty to impress
upon the public how great Van Tromp was. This he did after taking thirteen Van Tromps in payment
of a bad debt, and he succeeded. But the man I am writing about cared nothing for all this:
he simply wanted to see how well he could imitate this corner of the picture, and he did it
pretty well. He begrimed it and he rubbed at it, and then he tickled it up again with a knife,
and then he smoked it, and then he put in some dirty whites which were vivid, and he played
the fool with white of egg, and so forth, until he had the very tone and manner of the original;
and as he had done it on an old bit of wood it was exactly right, and he was very proud of
the result. He got an old frame from near Long Acre and stuck it in, and then he took the thing
home. He had done several things of this kind, imitating miniatures, and even enamels. It amused
him. When he got home he sat looking at it with great pleasure for an hour or two; he left
the little thing on the table of his study and went to bed.

Here begins the story, and here, therefore, I must tell you what the subject of this corner
of the picture was.

The subject of this corner of the picture which he had copied was a woman in a brown jacket
and a red petticoat with big feet showing underneath, sitting on a tub and cutting up some
vegetables. She had her hair bunched up like an onion, a fashion which, as we all know, appealed
to the Dutch in the seventeenth century, or at any rate to the plebeian Dutch. I must also
tell you the name of this squire before I go any further: his name was Hammer--Paul Hammer.
He was unmarried.

He went to bed at eleven o'clock, and when he came down at eight o'clock he had his breakfast.
He went into his study at nine o'clock, and was very much annoyed to find that some burglars
had come in during the night and had taken away a number of small objects which were not without
value; and among-them, what he most regretted, his little pastiche of the corner of the Van Tromp.

For some moments he stood filled with an acute anger and wishing that he knew who the burglars
were and how to get at them; but the days passed, and though he asked everybody, and even gave
some money to the police, he could not discover this. He put an advertisement into several
newspapers, both London newspapers and local ones, saying that money would be given if the
thing were restored, and pretty well hinting that no questions would be asked, but nothing came.

Meanwhile the burglars, whose names were Charles and Lothair Femeral, foreigners but English-speaking,
had found some of their ill-acquired goods saleable, others unsaleable. They wanted a pound
for the little picture in the frame, and this they could not get, and it was a bother haggling
it about. Lothair Femeral thought of a good plan: he stopped at an inn on the third day of
their peregrinations, had a good dinner with his brother, told the innkeeper that he could
not pay the bill, and offered to leave the Old Master in exchange. When people do this it very
often comes off, for the alternative is only the pleasure of seeing the man in gaol, whereas
a picture is always a picture, and there is a gambler's chance of its turning up trumps. So
the man grumbled and took the little thing. He hung it up in the best room of the inn, where
he gave his richer customers food.

Thus it was that a young gentleman who had come down to ride in that neighbourhood, although
he did not know any of the rich people round about, saw it one day, and on seeing it exclaimed
loudly in an unknown tongue; but he very rapidly repressed his emotion and simply told the
innkeeper that he had taken a fancy to the daub and would give him thirty shillings for it.

The innkeeper, who had read in the newspapers of how pictures of the utmost value are sold
by fools for a few pence, said boldly that his price was twenty pounds; whereupon the young
gentleman went out gloomily, and the innkeeper thought that he must have made a mistake, and
was for three hours depressed. But in the fourth hour again he was elated, for the young gentleman
came back with twenty pounds, not even in notes but in gold, paid it down, and took away the
picture. Then again, in the fifth hour was the innkeeper a little depressed, but not as much
as before, for it struck him that the young gentleman must have been very eager to act in such
a fashion, and that perhaps he could have got as much as twenty-one pounds by holding out and
calling it guineas.

The young gentleman telegraphed to his father (who lived in Wimbledon but who did business
in Bond Street) saying that he had got hold of a Van Tromp which looked like a study for the
big "Eversley" Van Tromp in the Gallery, and he wanted to know what his father would give for
it. His father telegraphed back inviting him to spend one whole night under the family roof.
This the young man did, and, though it wrung the old father's heart to have to do it, by the
time he had seen the young gentleman's find (or trouvaille as he called it) he had given his
offspring a cheque for five hundred pounds. Whereupon the young gentleman left and went back
to do some more riding, an exercise of which he was passionately fond, and to which he had
trained several quiet horses.

The father wrote to a certain lord of his acquaintance who was very fond of Van Tromps, and
offered him this replica or study, in some ways finer than the original, but he said it must
be a matter for private negotiation; so he asked for an appointment, and the lord, who was
a tall, red-faced man with a bluff manner, made an appointment for nine o'clock next morning,
which was rather early for Bond Street. But money talks, and they met. The lord was very well
dressed, and when he talked he folded his hands (which had gloves on them) over the knob of
his stick and pressed his stick firmly upon the ground. It was a way he had. But it did not
frighten the old gentleman who did business in Bond Street, and the long and short of it was
that the lord did not get the picture until he had paid three thousand guineas--not pounds,
mind you. For this sum the picture was to be sent round to the lord's house, and so it was,
and there it would have stayed but for a very curious accident. The lord had put the greater
part of his money into a company which was developing the resources of the South Shetland Islands,
and by some miscalculation or other the expense of this experiment proved larger than the revenues
obtainable from it. His policy, as I need hardly tell you, was to hang on, and so he did, because
in the long run the property must pay. And so it would if they could have gone on shelling
out for ever, but they could not, and so the whole affair was wound up and the lord lost a
great deal of money.

Under these circumstances he bethought him of the toiling millions who never see a good picture
and who have no more vivid appetite than the hunger for good pictures. He therefore lent his
collection of Van Tromps with the least possible delay to a public gallery, and for many years
they hung there, while the lord lived in great anxiety, but with a sufficient income for his
needs in the delightful scenery of the Pennines at some distance from a railway station, surrounded
by his tenants. At last even these--the tenants, I mean--were not sufficient, and a gentleman
in the Government who knew the value of Van Tromps proposed that these Van Tromps should be
bought for the nation; but a lot of cranks made a frightful row, both in Parliament and out
of it, so that the scheme would have fallen through had not one of the Van Tromps--to wit,
that little copy of a corner which was obviously a replica of or a study for the best-known
of the Van Tromps--been proclaimed false quite suddenly by a gentleman who doubted its authenticity;
whereupon everybody said that it was not genuine except three people who really counted, and
these included the gentleman who had recommended the purchase of the Van Tromps by the nation.
So enormous was the row upon the matter that the picture reached the very pinnacle of fame,
and an Australian then travelling in England was determined to get that Van Tromp for himself,
and did.

This Australian was a very simple man, good and kind and childlike, and frightfully rich. When
he had got the Van Tromp he carried it about with him, and at the country houses where he stopped
he used to pull it out and show it to people. It happened that among other country houses he
stopped once at the hunchback squire's, whose name, as you will remember, was Mr. Hammer, and
he showed him the Van Tromp one day after dinner.

Now Mr. Hammer was by this time an old man, and he had ceased to care much for the things of
this world. He had suffered greatly, and he had begun to think about religion; also he had
made a good deal of money in Egyptians (for all this was before the slump). And he was pretty
well ashamed of his pastiches; so, one way and another, the seeing of that picture did not
have the effect upon him which you might have expected; for you, the reader, have read this
story in five minutes (if you have had the patience to get so far), but he, Mr. Hammer, had
been changing and changing for years, and I tell you he did not care a dump what happened to
the wretched thing. Only when the Australian, who was good and simple and kind and hearty,
showed him the picture and asked him proudly to guess what he had given for it, then Mr. Hammer
looked at him with a look in his eyes full of that not mortal sadness which accompanies irremediable
despair.

"I do not know," he answered gently and with a sob in his voice.

"I paid for that picture," said the Australian, in the accent and language of his native clime,
"no less a sum than L7500 ... and I'd pay it again to-morrow!" Saying this, the Australian
hit the table with the palm, of his hand in a manner so manly that an aged retainer who was
putting coals upon the fire allowed the coal-scuttle to drop.

But Mr. Hammer, ruminating in his mind all the accidents and changes and adventures of human
life, its complexity, its unfulfilled desires, its fading but not quite perishable ideals,
well knowing how men are made happy and how unhappy, ventured on no reply. Two great tears
gathered in his eyes, and he would have shed them, perhaps to be profusely followed by more--he
was nearly breaking down--when he looked up and saw on the wall opposite him seven pastiches
which he had made in the years gone by. There was a Titian and a George Morland, a Chardin,
two cows after Cooper, and an impressionist picture after some Frenchman whose name he had
forgotten.

"You like pictures?" he said to the Australian, the tears still standing in his eyes.

"I do!" said the Australian with conviction.

"Will you let me give you these?" said Mr. Hammer.

The Australian protested that such things could not be allowed, but he was a simple man, and
at last he consented, for he was immensely pleased.

"It is an ungracious thing to make conditions," said Mr. Hammer, "and I won't make any, only
I should be pleased if, in your island home...."

"I don't live on an island," said the Australian. Mr. Hammer remembered the map of Australia,
with the water all round it, but he was too polite to argue.

"No, of course not," he said; "you live on the mainland; I forgot. But anyhow, I should be
so pleased if you would promise me to hang them all together, these pictures with your Van
Tromp, all in a line! I really should be so pleased!"

"Why, certainly," said the Australian, a little bewildered; "I will do so, Mr. Hammer, if it
can give you any pleasure."

"The fact is," said Mr. Hammer, in a breaking voice, "I had that picture once, and I intended
it to hang side by side with these."

It was in vain that the Australian, on hearing this, poured out self-reproaches, offered with
an expansion of soul to restore it, and then more prudently attempted a negotiation. Mr. Hammer
resolutely shook his head.

"I am an old man," he said, "and I have no heirs; it is not for me to take, but to give, and
if you will do what an old man begs of you, and accept what I offer; if you will do more and
of your courtesy keep all these things together which were once familiar to me, it will be
enough reward."

The next day, therefore, the Australian sailed off to his distant continental home, carrying
with him not only the Chardin, the Titian, the Cooper, the impressionist picture, and the rest,
but also the Van Tromp. And three months after they all hung in a row in the great new copper
room at Warra-Mugga. What happened to them later on, and how they were all sold together as
"the Warra-Mugga Collection," I will tell you when I have the time and you the patience. Farewell.

HIS CHARACTER

A certain merchant in the City of London, having retired from business, purchased for himself
a private house upon the heights of Hampstead and proposed to devote his remaining years to
the education and the establishment in life of his only son.

When this youth (whose name was George) had arrived at the age of nineteen his father spoke
to him after dinner upon his birthday with regard to the necessity of choosing a profession.
He pointed out to him the advantages of a commercial career, and notably of that form of useful
industry which is known as banking, showing how in that trade a profit was to be made by lending
the money of one man to another, and often of a man's own money to himself, without engaging
one's own savings or fortune.

George, to whom such matters were unfamiliar, listened attentively, and it seemed to him with
every word that dropped from his father that a wider and wider horizon of material comfort
and worldly grandeur was spreading out before him. He had hitherto had no idea that such great
rewards were attached to services so slight in themselves, and certainly so valueless to the
community. The career sketched out for him by his father appealed to him most strongly, and
when that gentleman had completed his advice he assured him that he would follow it in every
particular.

George's father was overjoyed to find his son so reasonable. He sat down at once to write the
note which he had planned, to an old friend and connection by marriage, Mr. Repton, of Repton
and Greening; he posted it that night and bade the lad prepare for the solemnity of a private
interview with the head of the firm upon the morrow.

Before George left the house next morning his father laid before him, with the pomp which so
great an occasion demanded, certain rules of conduct which should guide not only his entry
into life but his whole conduct throughout its course. He emphasized the value of self-respect,
of a decent carriage, of discretion, of continuous and tenacious habits of industry, of promptitude,
and so forth; when, urged by I know not what demon whose pleasure it is ever to disturb the
best plans of men, the old gentleman had the folly to add the following words as he rose to
his feet and laid his hand heavily upon his son's shoulder:

"Above all things, George, tell the truth. I was young and now am old. I have seen many men
fail, some few succeed; and the best advice I can give to my dear only son is that on all occasions
he should fearlessly and manfully tell the truth without regard of consequence. Believe me,
it is not only the whole root of character, but the best basis for a successful business career
even today."

Having so spoken, the old man, more moved than he cared to show, went upstairs to read his
newspaper, and George, beautifully dressed, went out by the front door towards the Tube, pondering
very deeply the words his father had just used.

I cannot deny that the impression they produced upon him was extraordinary--far more vivid
than men of mature years can easily conceive. It is often so in early youth when we listen
to the voice of authority; some particular chance phrase will have an unmeasured effect upon
one. A worn tag and platitude solemnly spoken, and at a critical moment, may change the whole
of a career. And so it was with George, as you will shortly perceive. For as he rumbled along
in the Tube his father's words became a veritable obsession within him: he saw their value
ramifying in a multitude of directions, he perceived the strength and accuracy of them in a
hundred aspects. He knew well that the interview he was approaching was one in which this virtue
of truth might be severely tested, but he gloried in the opportunity, and he came out of the
Tube into the fresh air within a step of Mr. Repton's office with set lips and his young temper
braced for the ordeal.

When he got to the office there was Mr. Repton, a kindly old gentleman, wearing large spectacles,
and in general appearance one of those genial types from which our caricaturists have constructed
the national figure of John Bull. It was a pleasure to be in the presence of so honest a man,
and in spite of George's extreme nervousness he felt a certain security in such company. Moreover,
Mr. Repton smiled paternally at him before putting to him the few questions which the occasion
demanded. He held George's father's letter between two fingers of his right hand, moving it
gently in the air as he addressed the lad:

"I am very glad to see you, George," he said, "in this old office. I've seen you here before,
Chrm! as you know, but not on such important business, Chrm!" He laughed genially. "So you
want to come and learn your trade with us, do you? You're punctual I hope, Chrm?" he added,
his honest eyes full of good nature and jest.

George looked at him in a rather gloomy manner, hesitated a moment, and then, under the influence
of an obvious effort, said in a choking voice, "No, Mr. Repton, I'm not."

"Hey, what?" said Mr. Repton, puzzled and a little annoyed at the young man's manner.

"I was saying, Mr. Repton, that I am not punctual. I have dreamy fits which sometimes make
me completely forget an appointment. And I have a silly habit of cutting things too fine, which
makes me miss trains and things, I think I ought to tell you while I am about it, but I simply
cannot get up early in the morning. There are days when I manage to do so under the excitement
of a coming journey or for some other form of pleasure, but as a rule I postpone my rising
until the very latest possible moment."

George having thus delivered himself closed his lips and was silent.

"Humph!" said Mr. Repton. It was not what the boy had said so much as the impression of oddness
which affected that worthy man. He did not like it, and he was not quite sure of his ground.
He was about to put another question, when George volunteered a further statement:

"I don't drink," he said, "and at my age it is not easy to understand what the vice of continual
drunkenness may be, but I shouldn't wonder if that would be my temptation later on, and it
is only fair to tell you that, young as I am, I have twice grossly exceeded in wine; on one
occasion, not a year ago, the servants at a house where I was stopping carried me to bed."

"They did?" said Mr. Repton drily.

"Yes," said George, "they did." Then there was a silence for a space of at least three minutes.

"My dear young man," said Mr. Repton, rising, "do you feel any aptitude for a City career?"

"None," said George decisively.

"Pray," said Mr. Repton (who had grown-up children of his own and could not help speaking with
a touch of sarcasm--he thought it good for boys in the lunatic stage), "pray," said he, looking
quizzically down at the unhappy but firm-minded George as he sat there in his chair, "is there
any form of work for which you do feel an aptitude?"

"Yes, certainly," said George confidently.

"And what is that?" said Mr. Repton, his smile beginning again.

"The drama," said George without hesitation, "the poetic drama. I ought to tell you that I
have received no encouragement from those who are the best critics of this art, though I have
submitted my work to many since I left school. Some have said that my work was commonplace,
others that it was imitative; all have agreed that it was dull, and they have unanimously urged
me to abandon every thought of such composition. Nevertheless I am convinced that I have the
highest possible talents not only in this department of letters but in all."

"You believe yourself," said Mr. Repton, with a touch of severity, "to be an exceptional young
man?"

George nodded. "I do," he said, "quite exceptional. I should have used a stronger term had
I been speaking of the matter myself. I think I have genius, or, rather, I am sure I have;
and, what is more, genius of a very high order."

"Well," said Mr. Repton, sighing, "I don't think we shall get any forrader. Have you been working
much lately?" he asked anxiously-- "examinations or anything?"

"No," said George quietly. "I always feel like this."

"Indeed!" said Mr. Repton, who was now convinced that the poor boy had intended no discourtesy.
"Well, I wonder whether you would mind taking back a note to your father?"

"Not at all," said George courteously.

Mr. Repton in his turn wrote a short letter, in which he begged George's father not to take
offence at an old friend's advice, recalled to his memory the long and faithful friendship
between them, pointed out that outsiders could often see things which members of a family could
not, and wound up by begging George's father to give George a good holiday. "Not alone," he
concluded; "I don't think that would be quite safe, but in company with some really trustworthy
man a little older than himself, who won't get on his nerves and yet will know how to look
after him. He must get right away for some weeks," added the kind old man, "and after that
I should advise you to keep him at home and let him have some gentle occupation. Don't encourage
him in writing. I think he would take kindly to gardening. But I won't write any more: I will
come and see you about it."

Bearing that missive back did George reach his home.... All this passed in the year 1895, and
that is why George is to-day one of the best electrical engineers in the country, instead of
being a banker; and that shows how good always comes, one way or another, of telling the truth.

ON THRUPPENNY BITS

Philip, King of Macedon, destroyer of the liberties of Greece, and father to Alexander who
tamed the horse Bucephalus, called for the tutor of that lad, one Aristotle (surnamed the Teacher
of the Human Race), to propound to him a question that had greatly troubled him; for in counting
out his money (which was his habit upon a washing day, when the Queen's appetite for afternoon
tea and honey had rid him of her presence) he discovered mixed with his treasure such an intolerable
number of thruppenny bits as very nearly drove him to despair.

On this account King Philip of Macedon, destroyer of the liberties of Greece, sent for Aristotle,
his hanger-on, as one capable of answering any question whatsoever, and said to him (when he
had entered with a profound obeisance):

"Come, Aristotle, answer me straight; what is the use of a thruppenny bit?"

"Dread sire," said Aristotle, standing in his presence with respect, "the thruppenny bit is
not to be despised. Men famous in no way for their style, nor even for their learning, have
maintained life by inscribing within its narrow boundaries the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, and
the Ten Commandments, while others have used it as a comparison in the classes of astronomy
to illustrate the angle subtended by certain of the orbs of heaven. The moon, whose waxing
and waning is doubtless familiar to Your Majesty, is indeed but just hidden by a thruppenny
bit held between the finger and the thumb of the observer extended at the full length of any
normal human arm."

"Go on," said King Philip, with some irritation; "go on; go on!"

"The thruppenny bit, Your Majesty, illustrates, as does no other coin, the wisdom and the aptness
of the duodecimal system to which the Macedonians have so wisely clung (in common with the
people of Scythia and of Thrace, and the dumb animals) while the too brilliant Hellenes ran
wild in the false simplicity of the decimal system. The number twelve, Your Majesty...."

"Yes, yes, I know," said King Philip impatiently, "I have heard it a thousand times! It has
already persuaded me to abandon the duodecimal method and to consign to the severest tortures
any one who mentions it in my presence again. My ten fingers are good enough for me. Go on, go on!"

"Sovran Lord!" continued Aristotle, "the thruppenny bit has further been proved in a thousand
ways an adjuvator and prime helper of the Gods. For many a man too niggardly to give sixpence,
and too proud to give a copper, has dropped this coin among the offerings at the Temple, and
it is related of a clergyman in Armagh (a town of which Your Majesty has perhaps never heard)
that he would frequently address his congregation from the rails of the altar, pointing out
the excessive number of thruppenny bits which had been offered for the sustenance of the hierarchy,
threatening to summon before him known culprits, and to return to them the insufficient oblation.
Again, the thruppenny bit most powerfully disciplines the soul of man, for it tries the temper
as does no other coin, being small, thin, wayward, given to hiding, and very often useless
when it is discovered. Learn also, King of Macedon, that the thruppenny bit is of value in
ritual phrases, and particularly so in objurgations and the calling down of curses, and in
the settlement of evil upon enemies, and in the final expression of contempt. For to compare
some worthless thing to a farthing, to a penny, or to tuppence, has no vigour left in it, and
it has long been thought ridiculous even among provincials; a threadbare, worn, and worthless
sort of sneer; but the thruppenny bit has a sound about it very valuable to one who would insist
upon his superiority. Thus were some rebel or some demagogue of Athens (for example) to venture
upon the criticism of Your Majesty's excursions into philosophy, in order to bring those august
theses into contempt, his argument would never find emphasis or value unless he were to terminate
its last phrase by a snap of the fingers and the mention of a thruppenny bit.

"King Philip of Macedon, most prudent of men, learn further that a thruppenny bit, which to
the foolish will often seem a mere expenditure of threepence, to the wise may represent a saving
of that sum. For how many occasions are there not in which the inconsequent and lavish fool,
the spendthrift, the young heir, the commander of cavalry, the empty, gilded boy, will give
a sixpence to a messenger where a thruppenny bit would have done as well? For silver is the
craving of the poor, not in its amount, but in its nature, for nature and number are indeed
two things, the one on the one hand...."

"Oh, I know all about that," said King Philip; "I did not send for you to get you off upon
those rails, which have nothing whatever to do with thruppenny bits. Be concrete, I pray you,
good Aristotle," he continued, and yawned. "Stick to things as they are, and do not make me
remind you how once you said that men had thirty-six, women only thirty-four, teeth. Do not
wander in the void."

"Arbiter of Hellas," said Aristotle gravely, when the King had finished his tirade, "the thruppenny
bit has not only all that character of usefulness which I have argued in it from the end it
is designed to serve, but one may also perceive this virtue in it in another way, which is
by observation. For you will remember how when we were all boys the fourpenny bit of accursed
memory still lingered, and how as against it the thruppenny bit has conquered. Which is, indeed,
a parable taken from nature, showing that whatever survives is destined to survive, for that
is indeed in a way, as you may say, the end of survival."

"Precisely," said King Philip, frowning intellectually; "I follow you. I have heard many talk
in this manner, but none talk as well as you do. Continue, good Aristotle, continue."

"Your Majesty, the matter needs but little exposition, though it contains the very marrow of
truth," said the philosopher, holding up in a menacing way the five fingers of his left hand
and ticking them off with the forefinger of his right. "For it is first useful, second beautiful,
third valuable, fourth magnificent, and, fifthly, consonant to its nature."

"Quite true," said King Philip, following carefully every word that fell from the wise man's
lips, for he could now easily understand.

"Very well then, sire," said Aristotle in a livelier tone, charmed to have captivated the attention
of his Sovereign. "I was saying that which survives is proved worthy of survival, as of a man
and a shark, or of Athens and Macedonia, or in many other ways. Now the thruppenny bit, having
survived to our own time, has so proved itself in that test, and upon this all men of science
are agreed.

"Then, also, King Philip, consider how the thruppenny bit in another and actual way, not of
pure reason but, if I may say so, in a material manner, commends itself: for is it not true
that whereas all other nations whatsoever, being by nature servile, will use a nickel piece
or some other denomination for whatever is small but is not of bronze, the Macedonians, being
designed by the Gods for the command of all the human race, have very tenaciously clung to
the thruppenny bit through good and through evil repute, and have even under the sternest penalties
enforced it upon their conquered subjects? For when Your Majesty discovered (if you will remember)
that the people of Euboea, in manifest contempt of your Crown, paid back into Your Majesty's
treasury all their taxes in the shape of thruppenny bits...."

At this moment King Philip gave a loud shout, uttering in Greek the word "Eureka," which signifies
(to those who drop their aitches) "I've got it."

"Got what?" said the philosopher, startled into common diction by the unexpected interjection
of the despot.

"Get out!" said King Philip. "Do you suppose that any rambling Don is going to take up my time
when by a sheer accident his verbosity has started me on a true scent? Out, Aristotle, out!
Or, stay, take this note with you to the Captain of the Guard"--and King Philip hastily scribbled
upon a parchment an order for the immediate execution of the whole of the inhabitants of Euboea,
saving such as could redeem themselves at the price of ten drachmae, the said sum upon no account
whatsoever to be paid in coin containing so much as one thruppenny bit.

But the offended philosopher had departed, and being well wound up could not, any more than
any other member of the academies, cease from spouting; so that King Philip was intolerably
aggravated to hear him as he waddled down the Palace stairs still declaiming in a loud tone:

"And, sixteenthly, the thruppenny bit has about it this noble quality, that it represents an
aliquot part of that sum which is paid to me daily from the Royal Treasury in silver, a metal
upon which we have always insisted. And, seventeenthly...."

But King Philip banged the door.

ON THE HOTEL AT PALMA AND A PROPOSED GUIDE-BOOK

The hotel at Palma is like the Savoy, but the cooking is a great deal better. It is large and
new; its decorations are in the modern style with twiddly lines. Its luxury is greater than
that of its London competitor. It has an eager, willing porter and a delightful landlord. You
do what you like in it and there are books to read. One of these books was an English guide-book.
I read it. It was full of lies, so gross and palpable that I told my host how abominably it
traduced his country, and advised him first to beat the book well and then to burn it over
a slow fire. It said that the people were superstitious--it is false. They have no taboo about
days; they play about on Sundays. They have no taboo about drinks; they drink what they feel
inclined (which is wine) when they feel inclined (which is when they are thirsty). They have
no taboo book, Bible or Koran, no damned psychical rubbish, no damned "folk-lore," no triply
damned mumbo-jumbo of social ranks; kind, really good, simple-minded dukes would have a devil
of a time in Palma. Avoid it, my dears, keep away. If anything, the people of Palma have not
quite enough superstition. They play there for love, money, and amusement. No taboo (talking
of love) about love.

The book said they were poor. Their populace is three or four times as rich as ours. They own
their own excellent houses and their own land; no one but has all the meat and fruit and vegetables
and wine he wants, and usually draught animals and musical instruments as well.

In fact, the book told the most frightful lies and was a worthy companion to other guidebooks.
It moved me to plan a guide-book of my own in which the truth should be told about all the
places I know. It should be called "Guide to Northumberland, Sussex, Chelsea, the French frontier,
South Holland, the Solent, Lombardy, the North Sea, and Rome, with a chapter on part of Cheshire
and some remarks on the United States of America."

In this book the fault would lie in its too great scrappiness, but the merit in its exactitude.
Thus I would inform the reader that the best time to sleep in Siena is from nine in the morning
till three in the afternoon, and that the best place to sleep is the north side of St. Domenic's
ugly brick church there.

Again, I would tell him that the man who keeps the "Turk's Head" at Valogne, in Normandy, was
only outwardly and professedly an Atheist, but really and inwardly a Papist.

I would tell him that it sometimes snowed in Lombardy in June, for I have seen it--and that
any fool can cross the Alps blindfold, and that the sea is usually calm, not rough, and that
the people of Dax are the most horrible in all France, and that Lourdes, contrary to the general
opinion, does work miracles, for I have seen them.

I would also tell him of the place at Toulouse where the harper plays to you during dinner,
and of the grubby little inn at Terneuzen on the Scheldt where they charge you just anything
they please for anything; five shillings for a bit of bread, or half a crown for a napkin.

All these things, and hundreds of others of the same kind, would I put in my book, and at the
end should be a list of all the hotels in Europe where, at the date of publication, the landlord
was nice, for it is the character of the landlords which makes all the difference--and that
changes as do all human things.

There you could see first, like a sort of Primate of Hotels, the Railway Hotel at York. Then
the inn at La Bruyere in the Landes, then the "Swan" at Petworth with its mild ale, then the
"White Hart" of Storrington, then the rest of them, all the six or seven hundred of them, from
the "Elephant" of Chateau Thierry to the "Feathers" of Ludlow--a truly noble remainder of what
once was England; the "Feathers" of Ludlow, where the beds are of honest wood with curtains
to them, and where a man may drink half the night with the citizens to the success of their
engines and the putting out of all fires. For there are in West England three little inns in
three little towns, all in a line, and all beginning with an L-- Ledbury, Ludlow, and Leominster,
all with "Feathers," all with orchards round, and I cannot tell which is the best.

Then my guide-book will go on to talk about harbours; it will prove how almost every harbour
was impossible to make in a little boat; but it would describe the difficulties of each so
that a man in a little boat might possibly make them. It would describe the rush of the tide
outside Margate and the still more dangerous rush outside Shoreham, and the absurd bar at Littlehampton
that strikes out of the sea, and the place to lie at in Newhaven, and how not to stick upon
the Platters outside Harwich; and the very tortuous entry to Poole, and the long channel into
Christchurch past Hengistbury Head; and the enormous tides of South Wales; and why you often
have to beach at Britonferry, and the terrible difficulty of mooring in Great Yarmouth; and
the sad changes of Little Yarmouth, and the single black buoy at Calais which is much too far
out to be of any use; and how to wait for the tide in the Swin. And also what no book has ever
yet given, an exact direction of the way in which one may roll into Orford Haven, on the top
of a spring tide if one has luck, and how if one has no luck one sticks on the gravel and is
pounded to pieces.

Then my guide-book would go on to tell of the way in which to make men pleasant to you according
to their climate and country; of how you must not hurry the people of Aragon, and how it is
your duty to bargain with the people of Catalonia; and how it is impossible to eat at Daroca;
and how careful one must be with gloomy men who keep inns at the very top of glens, especially
if they are silent, under Cheviot. And how one must not talk religion when one has got over
the Scotch border, with some remarks about Jedburgh, and the terrible things that happened
to a man there who would talk religion though he had been plainly warned.

Then my guide-book would go on to tell how one should climb ordinary mountains, and why one
should avoid feats; and how to lose a guide which is a very valuable art, for when you have
lost your guide you need not pay him. My book will also have a note (for it is hardly worth
a chapter) on the proper method of frightening sheep dogs when they attempt to kill you with
their teeth upon the everlasting hills.

This my good and new guide-book (oh, how it blossoms in my head as I write!) would further
describe what trains go to what places, and in what way the boredom of them can best be overcome,
and which expresses really go fast; and I should have a footnote describing those lines of
steamers on which one can travel for nothing if one puts a sufficiently bold face upon the matter.

My guide-book would have directions for the pacifying of Arabs, a trick which I learnt from
a past master, a little way east of Batna in the year 1905--I will also explain how one can
tell time by the stars and by the shadow of the sun; upon what sort of food one can last longest
and how best to carry it, and what rites propitiate, if they are solemnized in a due order,
the half-malicious fairies which haunt men when they are lost in lonely valleys, right up under
the high peaks of the world. And my book should have a whole chapter devoted to Ulysses.

For you must know that one day I came into Narbonne where I had never been before, and I saw
written up in large letters upon a big, ugly house:

ULYSSES,

Lodging for Man and Beast.

So I went in and saw the master, who had a round bullet head and cropped hair, and I said to
him: "What! Are you landed, then, after all your journeys? And do I find you at last, you of
whom I have read so much and seen so little?" But with an oath he refused me lodging.

This tale is true, as would be every other tale in my book.

What a fine book it will be!

THE DEATH OF WANDERING PETER

"I will confess and I will not deny," said Wandering Peter (of whom you have heard little but
of whom in God's good time you shall hear more). "I will confess and I will not deny that the
chief pleasure I know is the contemplation of my fellow beings."

He spoke thus in his bed in the inn of a village upon the River Yonne beyond Auxerre, in which
bed he lay a-dying; but though he was dying he was full of words.

"What energy! What cunning! What desire! I have often been upon the edge of a steep place,
such as a chalk pit or a cliff above a plain, and watched them down below, hurrying around,
turning about, laying down, putting up, leading, making, organizing, driving, considering,
directing, exceeding, and restraining; upon my soul I was proud to be one of them! I have said
to myself," said Wandering Peter, "lift up your heart; you also are one of these! For though
I am," he continued, "a wandering man and lonely, given to the hills and to empty places, yet
I glory in the workers on the plain, as might a poor man in his noble lineage. From these I
came; to these in my old age I would have returned."

At these words the people about his bed fell to sobbing when they thought how he would never
wander more, but Peter Wanderwide continued with a high heart:

"How pleasant it is to see them plough! First they cunningly contrive an arrangement that throws
the earth aside and tosses it to the air, and then, since they are too weak to pull the same,
they use great beasts, oxen or horses or even elephants, and impose them with their will, so
that they patiently haul this contrivance through the thick clods; they tear up and they put
into furrows, and they transform the earth. Nothing can withstand them. Birds you will think
could escape them by flying up into the air. It is an error. Upon birds also my people impose
their view. They spread nets, food, bait, trap, and lime. They hail stones and shot and arrows
at them. They cause some by a perpetual discipline to live near them, to lay eggs and to be
killed at will; of this sort are hens, geese, turkeys, ducks, and guinea-fowls. Nothing eludes
the careful planning of man.

"Moreover, they can build. They do not build this way or that, as a dull necessity forces them,
not they! They build as they feel inclined. They hew down, they saw through (and how marvellous
is a saw!), they trim timber, they mix lime and sand, they excavate the recesses of the hills.
Oh! the fine fellows! They can at whim make your chambers or the Tower prison, or my aunt's
new villa at Wimbledon (which is a joke of theirs), or St. Pancras Station, or the Crystal
Palace, or Westminster Abbey, or St. Paul's, or Bon Secours. They are agreeable to every change
in the wind that blows about the world. It blows Gothic, and they say 'By all means'-- and
there is your Gothic--a thing dreamt of and done! It suddenly veers south again and blows from
the Mediterranean. The jolly little fellows are equal to the strain, and up goes Amboise, and
Anet, and the Louvre, and all the Renaissance. It blows everyhow and at random as though in
anger at seeing them so ready. They care not at all! They build the Eiffel Tower, the Queen
Anne house, the Mary Jane house, the Modern-Style house, the Carlton, the Ritz, the Grand Palais,
the Trocadero, Olympia, Euston, the Midhurst Sanatorium, and old Beit's Palace in Park Lane.
They are not to be defeated, they have immortal certitudes.

"Have you considered their lines and their drawings and their cunning plans?" said Wandering
Peter. "They are astonishing there! Put a bit of charcoal into my dog's mouth or my pet monkey's
paw--would he copy the world? Not he! But men--my brothers--they take it in hand and make war
against the unspeaking forces; the trees and the hills are of their own showing, and the places
in which they dwell, by their own power, become full of their own spirit. Nature is made more
by being their model, for in all they draw, paint, or chisel they are in touch with heaven
and with hell.... They write (Lord! the intelligence of their men, and Lord! the beauty of
their women). They write unimaginable things!

"They write epics, they write lyrics, they write riddles and marching songs and drinking songs
and rhetoric, and chronicles, and elegies, and pathetic memories; and in everything that they
write they reveal things greater than they know. They are capable," said Peter Wanderwide,
in his dying enthusiasm, "of so writing that the thought enlarges upon the writing and becomes
far more than what they have written. They write that sort of verse called 'Stop-Short,' which
when it is written makes one think more violently than ever, as though it were an introduction
to the realms of the soul. And then again they write things which gently mock themselves and
are a consolation for themselves against the doom of death."

But when Peter Wanderwide said that word "death," the howling and the boo-hooing of the company
assembled about his bed grew so loud that he could hardly hear himself think. For there was
present the Mayor of the village, and the Priest of the village, and the Mayor's wife, and
the Adjutant Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and the village Councillor, and the Road-mender, and the
Schoolmaster, and the Cobbler, and all the notabilities, as many as could crush into the room,
and none but the Doctor was missing.

And outside the house was a great crowd of the village folk, weeping bitterly and begging for
news of him, and mourning that so great and so good a man should find his death in so small
a place.

Peter Wanderwide was sinking very fast, and his life was going out with his breath, but his
heart was still so high that he continued although his voice was failing:

"Look you, good people all, in your little passage through the daylight, get to see as many
hills and buildings and rivers, fields, books, men, horses, ships, and precious stones as you
can possibly manage to do. Or else stay in one village and marry in it and die there. For one
of these two fates is the best fate for every man. Either to be what I have been, a wanderer
with all the bitterness of it, or to stay at home and hear in one's garden the voice of God.

"For my part I have followed out my fate. And I propose in spite of my numerous iniquities,
by the recollection of my many joys in the glories of this earth, as by corks, to float myself
in the sea of nothingness until I reach the regions of the Blessed and the pure in heart.

"For I think when I am dead Almighty God will single me out on account of my accoutrement,
my stirrup leathers, and the things that I shall be talking of concerning Ireland and the Perigord,
and my boat upon the narrow seas; and I think He will ask St. Michael, who is the Clerk and
Registrar of battling men, who it is that stands thus ready to speak (unless his eyes betray
him) of so many things? Then St. Michael will forget my name although he will know my face;
he will forget my name because I never stayed long enough in one place for him to remember it.

"But St. Peter, because he is my Patron Saint and because I have always had a special devotion
to him, will answer for me and will have no argument, for he holds the keys. And he will open
the door and I will come in. And when I am inside the door of Heaven I shall freely grow those
wings, the pushing and nascence of which have bothered my shoulder blades with birth pains
all my life long, and more especially since my thirtieth year. I say, friends and companions
all, that I shall grow a very satisfying and supporting pair of wings, and once I am so furnished
I shall be received among the Blessed, and I shall at once begin to tell them, as I told you
on earth, all sorts of things, both false and true, with regard to the countries through which
I carried forward my homeless feet, and in which I have been given such fulfilment for my eyes."

When Peter Wanderwide had delivered himself of these remarks, which he did with great dignity
and fire for one in such extremity, he gasped a little, coughed, and died.

I need not tell you what solemnities attended his burial, nor with what fervour the people
flocked to pray at his tomb; but it is worth knowing that the poet of that place, who was rival
to the chief poet in Auxerre itself, gathered up the story of his death into a rhyme, written
in the dialect of that valley, of which rhyme this is an English translation:

   When Peter Wanderwide was young
     He wandered everywhere he would;
   And all that he approved was sung,
     And most of what he saw was good.

   When Peter Wanderwide was thrown
     By Death himself beyond Auxerre,
   He chanted in heroic tone
     To Priest and people gathered there:

  "If all that I have loved and seen
     Be with me on the Judgment Day,
   I shall be saved the crowd between
     From Satan and his foul array.

  "Almighty God will surely cry
     'St. Michael! Who is this that stands
   With Ireland in his dubious eye,
     And Perigord between his hands,

  "'And on his arm the stirrup thongs,
     And in his gait the narrow seas,
   And in his mouth Burgundian songs,
     But in his heart the Pyrenees?'

  "St. Michael then will answer right
     (But not without angelic shame):
   'I seem to know his face by sight;
     I cannot recollect his name....'

  "St. Peter will befriend me then,
     Because my name is Peter too;
   'I know him for the best of men
     That ever wallopped barley brew.

  "'And though I did not know him well,
     And though his soul were clogged with sin,
   I hold the keys of Heaven and Hell.
     Be welcome, noble Peterkin.'

  "Then shall I spread my native wings
     And tread secure the heavenly floor,
   And tell the Blessed doubtful things
     Of Val d'Aran and Perigord."

       *       *       *       *       *

  This was the last and solemn jest
     Of weary Peter Wanderwide,
   He spoke it with a failing zest,
     And having spoken it, he died.

THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE

The nation known to history as the Nephalo Ceclumenazenoi, or, more shortly, the Nepioi, inhabited
a fruitful and prosperous district consisting in a portion of the mainland and certain islands
situated in the Picrocholian Sea; and had there for countless centuries enjoyed a particular
form of government which it is not difficult to describe, for it was religious and arranged
upon the principle that no ancient custom might be changed.

Lest such changes should come about through the lapse of time or the evil passions of men,
the citizens of the aforesaid nation had them very clearly engraved in a dead language and
upon bronze tablets, which they fixed upon the doors of their principal temple, where it stood
upon a hill outside the city, and it was their laudable custom to entrust the interpretation
of them not to aged judges, but to little children, for they argued that we increase in wickedness
with years, and that no one is safe from the aged, but that children are, alone of the articulately
speaking race, truth-tellers. Therefore, upon the first day of the year (which falls in that
country at the time of sowing) they would take one hundred boys of ten years of age chosen
by lot, they would make these hundred, who had previously for one year received instruction
in their sacred language, write each a translation of the simple code engraved upon the bronze
tablets. It was invariably discovered that these artless compositions varied only according
to the ability of the lads to construe, and that some considerable proportion of them did accurately
show forth in the vernacular of the time the meaning of those ancestral laws. They had further
a magistrate known as the Archon. whose business it was to administrate these customs and to
punish those who broke them. And this Archon, when or if he proposed something contrary to
custom in the opinion of not less than a hundred petitioners, was judged by a court of children.

In this fashion for thousands of years did the Nepioi proceed with their calm and ordinary
lives, enjoying themselves like so many grigs, and utterly untroubled by those broils and imaginations
of State which disturbed their neighbours.

There was a legend among them (upon which the whole of this Constitution was based) that a
certain Hero, one Melek, being in stature twelve foot high and no less than 93 inches round
the chest, had landed in their country 150,000 years previously, and finding them very barbarous,
slaying one another and unacquainted with the use of letters, the precious metals, or the art
of usury, had instructed them in civilization, endowed them with letters, a coinage, police,
lawyers, instruments of torture, and all the other requisites of a great State, and had finally
drawn up for them this code of law or custom, which they carefully preserved engraved upon
the tablets of bronze, which were set upon the walls of their chief temple on the hill outside
the city.

Within the temple itself its great shrine and, so to speak, its very cause of being was the
Hero's tomb. He lay therein covered with plates of gold, and it was confidently asserted and
strictly and unquestionably believed that at some unknown time in the future he would come
out to rule them for ever in a millennial fashion--though heaven knows they were happy enough
as it was.

Among their customs was this: that certain appointed officers would at every change in the
moon proclaim the former existence and virtue of Melek, his residence in the tomb, and his
claims to authority. To enter the tomb, indeed, was death, but there was proof of the whole
story in documents which were carefully preserved in the temple, and which were from time to
time consulted and verified. The whole structure of Nepioian society reposed upon the sanctity
of this story, upon the presence of the Hero in his tomb, and of his continued authority, for
with this was intertwined, or rather upon this was based, the further sanctity of their customs.

Things so proceeded without hurt or cloud until upon one most unfortunate day a certain man,
bearing the vulgar name of Megalocrates, which signifies a person whose health requires the
use of a wide head-gear, discovered that a certain herb which grew in great abundance in their
territory and had hitherto been thought useless would serve almost every purpose of the table,
sufficing, according to its preparation, for meat, bread, vegetables, and salt, and, if properly
distilled, for a liquor that would make the Nepioi even more drunk than did their native spirits.

From this discovery ensued a great plenty throughout the land, the population very rapidly
increased, the fortunes of the wealthy grew to double, treble, and four times those which had
formerly been known, the middle classes adopted a novel accent in speech and a gait hitherto
unusual, while great numbers of the poor acquired the power of living upon so small a proportion
of foul air, dull light, stagnant water, and mangy crusts as would have astonished their nicer
forefathers. Meanwhile this great period of progress could not but lead to further discoveries,
and the Nepioi had soon produced whole colleges in which were studied the arts useful to mankind
and constantly discovered a larger and a larger number of surprising and useful things. At
last the Nepioi (though this, perhaps, will hardly be credited) were capable of travelling
underground, flying through the air, conversing with men a thousand miles away in a moment
of time, and committing suicide painlessly whenever there arose occasion for that exercise.

It may be imagined with what reverence the authors of all these boons, the members of the learned
colleges, were regarded; and how their opinions had in the eyes and ears of the Nepioi an unanswerable
character.

Now it so happened that in one of these colleges a professor of more than ordinary position
emitted one day the opinion that Melek had lived only half as long ago as was commonly supposed.
In proof of this he put forward the undoubted truth that if Melek had lived at the time he
was supposed to have lived, then he would have lived twice as long ago as he, the professor,
said that he had lived. The more old-fashioned and stupid of the Nepioi murmured against such
opinions, and though they humbly confessed themselves unable to discover any flaw in the professor's
logic, they were sure he was wrong somewhere and they were greatly disturbed. But the opinion
gained ground, and, what is more, this fruitful and intelligent surmise upon the part of the
professor bred a whole series of further theories upon Melek, each of which contradicted the
last but one, and the latest of which was always of so limpid and so self-evident a truth as
to be accepted by whatever was intelligent and energetic in the population, and especially
by the young unmarried women of the wealthier classes. In this manner the epoch of Melek was
reduced to five, to three, to two, to one thousand years. Then to five hundred, and at last
to one hundred and fifty. But here was a trouble. The records of the State, which had been
carefully kept for many centuries, showed no trace of Melek's coming during any part of the
time, but always referred to him as a long-distant forerunner. There was not even any mention
of a man twelve foot high, nor even of one a little over 93 inches round the chest. At last
it was proposed by an individual of great courage that he might be allowed to open the tomb
of Melek and afterwards, if they so pleased, suffer death. This privilege was readily granted
to him by the Archon. The worthy reformer, therefore, prised open the sacred shrine and found
within it absolutely nothing whatsoever.

Upon this there arose among the Nepioi all manner of schools and discussions, some saying this
and some that, but none with the certitude of old. Their customs fell into disrepute, and even
the very professors themselves were occasionally doubted when they laid down the law upon matters
in which they alone were competent--as, for instance, when they asserted that the moon was
made of a peculiarly delicious edible substance which increased in savour when it was preserved
in the store-rooms of the housewives; or when they affirmed with every appearance of truth
that no man did evil, and that wilful murder, arson, cruelty to the innocent and the weak,
and deliberate fraud were of no more disadvantage to the general state, or to men single, than
the drinking of a cup of cold water.

So things proceeded until one day, when all custom and authority had fallen into this really
lamentable deliquescence, fleets were observed upon the sea, manned by men-at-arms, the admiral
of which sent a short message to the Archon proposing that the people of the country should
send to him and his one-half of their yearly wealth for ever, "or," so the message proceeded,
"take the consequences." Upon the Archon communicating this to the people there arose at once
an infinity of babble, some saying one thing and some another, some proposing to pay neighbouring
savages to come in and fight the invaders, others saying it would be cheaper to compromise
with a large sum, but the most part agreeing that the wisest thing would be for the Archon
and his great-aunt to go out to the fleet in a little boat and persuade the enemy's admiral
(as they could surely easily do) that while most human acts were of doubtful responsibility
and not really wicked, yet the invasion, and, above all, the impoverishment of the Nepioi was
so foul a wrong as would certainly call down upon its fiendish perpetrator the fires of heaven.

While the Archon and his great-aunt were rowing out in the little boat a few doddering old
men and superstitious females slunk off to consult the bronze tablets, and there found under
Schedule XII these words: "If an enemy threaten the State, you shall arm and repel him." In
their superstition the poor old chaps, with their half-daft female devotees accompanying them,
tottered back to the crowds to persuade them to some ridiculous fanaticism or other, based
on no better authority than the non-existent Melek and his absurd and exploded authority.

Judge of their horror when, as they neared the city, they saw from the height whereon the temple
stood that the invaders had landed, and, having put to the sword all the inhabitants without
exception, were proceeding to make an inventory of the goods and to settle the place as conquerors.
The admiral summoned this remnant of the nation, and hearing what they had to say treated them
with the greatest courtesy and kindness and pensioned them off for their remaining years, during
which period they so instructed him and his fighting men in the mysteries of their religion
as quite to convert them, and in a sense to found the Nepioian State over again; but it should
be mentioned that the admiral, by way of precaution, changed that part of the religion which
related to the tomb of Melek and situated the shrine in the very centre of the crater of an
active volcano in the neighbourhood, which by night and day, at every season of the year, belched
forth molten rock so that none could approach it within fifteen miles.

A NORFOLK MAN

Among the delights of historical study which makes it so curiously similar to travel, and therefore
so fatally attractive to men who cannot afford it, is the element of discovery and surprise:
notably in little details.

When in travel one goes along a way one has never been before one often comes upon something
odd, which one could not dream was there: for instance, once I was in a room in a little house
in the south and thought there must be machinery somewhere from the noise I heard, until a
man in the house quietly lifted up a trapdoor in the floor, and there, running under and through
the house a long way below, was a river: the River Garonne.

It is the same way in historical study. You come upon the most extraordinary things: little
things, but things whose unexpectedness is enormous. I had an example of this the other day,
as I was looking up some last details to make certain of the affair of Valmy.

Most people have heard of the French Revolution, and many people have heard of the battle of
Valmy, which decided the first fate of that movement, when it was first threatened by war.
But very few people have read about Valmy, so it is necessary to give some idea of the action
to understand the astonishing little thing attaching to it which I am about to describe.

The cannonade of Valmy was exchanged between a French Army with its back to a range of hills
and a Prussian Army about a mile away over against them. It was as though the French Army had
stretched from Leatherhead to Epsom and had engaged in a cannonade with a Prussian Army lying
over against them in a position astraddle of the road to Kingston.

Through this range of hills at the back of the French Army lay a gap, just as there is a gap
through the hills behind Leatherhead. Not only was that gap easily passable by an army--easily,
at least, compared with the hill country on either side--but it had running through it the
great road from Metz to Paris, so that advance along it was rapid and practicable.

It so happened that another force of the enemy besides that which was cannonading the French
in front was advancing through this gap from behind, and it is evident that if this second
force of the enemy had been able to get through the gap it would have been all up with the
French. Dumouriez, who commanded the French, saw this well enough; he had ordered the gap to
be strongly fortified and well gunned and a camp to be formed there, largely made up of Volunteers
and Irregulars. On the proper conduct of that post depended everything: and here comes the
fun. The commander of the post was not what you might expect, a Frenchman of any one of the
French types with which the Revolution has made us familiar: contrariwise, he was an elderly
private gentleman from the county of Norfolk.

His name was Money. The little that is known about him is entertaining to a degree. His own
words prove him to be like the person in the song, "a very honest man," and luckily for us
he has left in a book a record of the day (and subsequent actions) stamped vividly with his
own character. John Money: called by his neighbours General John Money, not, as you might expect.
General Money: a man devoted to the noble profession of arms and also eaten up with a passion
for ballooning.

I find it difficult to believe that he was first in action at the age of nine years or that
he held King George's commission as a Cornet at the age of ten. He does not tell us so himself
nor do any of his friends. The surmise is that of our Universities, and it is worthy of them.
Clap on ten years and you are nearer the mark. At any rate he was under fire in 1761, and he
was a Cornet in 1762; a Cornet in the Inniskilling Dragoons with a commission dated on the
11th of March of that year. Then he transformed himself into a Linesman, got his company in
the 9th Foot eight years later, and eight years later again, at the outbreak of the American
War, he was a major. He was quarter-master-general under Burgoyne, he was taken prisoner--I
think at Saratoga, but anyhow during that disastrous advance upon the Hudson Valley. He got
his lieutenant-colonelcy towards the end of the war. He retired from the Army and never saw
active service again. When the Low Countries revolted against Austria he offered his services
to the insurgents and was accepted, but the truly entertaining chapter of his adventures begins
when he suggested himself to the French Government as a very proper and likely man to command
a brigade on the outbreak of the great war with the Empire and with Prussia.

Very beautifully does he tell us in his preface what moved him to that act. "Colonel Money,"
he says, in the quiet third person of a self-respecting Norfolk gentleman, "does not mean to
assign any other reason for serving the armies of France than that he loves his profession
and went there merely to improve himself in it." Spoken like Othello!

He dedicates the book, by the way, to the Marquis Townshend, and carefully adds that he has
not got permission to dedicate it to that exalted nobleman, nay, that he fears that he would
not get permission if he asked for it. But Lord Townshend is such a rattling good soldier that
Colonel Money is quite sure he will want to hear all about the war. On which account he has
this book so dedicated and printed by E. Harlow, bookseller to Her Majesty, in Pall Mall.

Before beginning his narrative the excellent fellow pathetically says, that as there was no
war a little time before, nor apparently any likelihood of one, "Colonel Money once intended
to serve the Turks"; from this horrid fate a Christian Providence delivered him, and sent him
to the defence of Gaul.

His commission was dated on the 19th of July, 1792; Marshal of the Camps, that is, virtually,
brigadier-general. He is very proud of it, and he gives it in full. It ends up "Given in the
year of Grace 1792 of our Reign the 19th and Liberty the 4th. Louis." The phrase, in accompaniment
with the signature and the date, is not without irony.

Colonel Money could never stomach certain traits in the French people.

Before he left Paris for his command on the frontier he was witness to the fighting when the
Palace was stormed by the populace, and he is our authority for the fact that the 5th Battalion
of Paris Volunteers stationed in the Champs Elysees helped to massacre the Swiss Guard.

"The lieutenant-colonel of this battalion," writes honest John Money, "who was under my command
during part of the campaign, related to me the circumstances of this murder, and apparently
with pleasure. He said: 'That the unhappy men implored mercy, but,' added he, 'we did not regard
this. We put them all to death, and our men cut off most of their heads and fixed them on their
bayonets.'"

Colonel or, as he then was, General Money disapproves of this.

He also disapproves of the officer in command of the Marseillese, and says he was a "Tyger."
It seems that the "Tyger" was dining with Theroigne de Mericourt and three English gentlemen
in the very hotel where Money was stopping, and it occurs to him that they might have broken
in from their drunken revels next door and treated him unfriendly.

Then he goes to the frontier, and after a good deal of complaint that he has not been given
his proper command he finds himself at the head of that very important post which was the saving
of the Army of Valmy.

Dumouriez, who always talked to him in English (for English was more widely known abroad then
than it is now, at least among gentlemen), had a very great opinion of Money; but he deplores
the fact that Money's address to his soldiery was couched "in a jargon which they could not
even begin to understand." Money does not tell us that in his account of the fighting, but
he does tell us some very interesting things, which reveal him as a man at once energetic and
exceedingly simple. He left the guns to Galbaud, remarking that no one but a gunner could attend
to that sort of thing, which was sound sense; but the Volunteers, the Line, and the Cavalry
he looked after himself, and when the first attack was made he gave the order to fire from
the batteries. Just as they were blazing away Dillon, who was far off but his superior, sent
word to the batteries to cease firing. Why, nobody knows. At any rate the orderly galloped
up and told Money that those were Dillon's orders. On which Money very charmingly writes:

"I told him to go back and tell General Dillon that I commanded there, and that whilst the
enemy fired shot and shell on me I should continue to fire back on them." A sentence that warms
the heart. Having thus delivered himself to the orderly, he began pacing up and down the parapet
"to let my men see that there was not much to be apprehended from a cannonade."

You may if you will make a little picture of this to yourselves. A great herd of volunteers,
some of whom had never been under fire, the rest of whom had bolted miserably at Verdun a few
days before, men not yet soldiers and almost without discipline: the batteries banging away
in the wood behind them, in front of them a long earthwork at which the enemy were lobbing
great round lumps of iron and exploding shells, and along the edge of this earthwork an elderly
gentleman from Norfolk, in England, walking up and down undisturbed, occasionally giving orders
to his army, and teaching his command a proper contempt for fire.

He adds as another reason why he did not cease fire when he was ordered that "without doubt
the troops would have thought there was treason in it, and I had probably been cut in pieces."

He did not understand what had happened at Valmy, though he was so useful in securing the success
of that day. All he noted was that after the cannonade Kellermann had fallen back. He rode
into St. Menehould, where Dumouriez's head-quarters were, ran up to the top of the steeple
and surveyed the country around the enemy's camp with an enormous telescope, laid a bet at
dinner of five to one that the enemy would attack again (they did not do so, and so he lost
his bet, but he says nothing about paying it), and then heard that France had been decreed
a Republic. His comment on this piece of news is strong but cryptical. "It was surprising,"
he says, "to see what an effect this news had on the Army."

Every sentence betrays the personality: the keen, eccentric character which took to balloons
just after the Montgolfiers, and fell with his balloon into the North Sea, wrote his Treatise
on the use of such instruments in War, and was never happy unless he was seeing or doing something--preferably
under arms. And in every sentence also there is that curious directness of statement which
is of such advantage to vivacity in any memoir. Thus of Gobert, who served under him, he has
a little footnote: "This unfortunate young man lost his head at the same time General Dillon
suffered, and a very amiable young man he was, and an excellent officer."

He ends his book in a phrase from which I think not a word could be taken nor to which a word
could be added without spoiling it. I will quote it in full.

"The reader, I trust, will excuse my having so often departed from the line of my profession
in giving my opinion on subjects that are not military" (for instance, his objections to the
head-cutting business), "but having had occasion to know the people of France I freely venture
to submit my judgments to the public and have the satisfaction to find that they coincide with
the opinion of those who know that extraordinary nation still better than myself."

THE ODD PEOPLE

The people of Monomotapa, of whom I have written more than once, I have recently revisited;
and I confess to an astonishment at the success with which they deal with the various difficulties
and problems arising in their social life.

Thus, in most countries the laws of property are complex in the extreme; punishable acts in
connexion with them are numerous and often difficult to define.

In Monomotapa the whole thing is settled in a very simple manner: in the first place, instead
of strict laws binding men down by written words, they appoint a number of citizens who shall
have it in their discretion to decide whether a man's actions are worthy of punishment or no;
and these appointed citizens have also the power to assign the punishment, which may vary from
a single day's imprisonment to a lifetime. So crimeless is the country, however, that in a
population of over thirty millions less than twenty such nominations are necessary; I must,
however, admit that these score are aided by several thousand minor judges who are appointed
in a different manner.

Their method of appointment is this: it is discovered as accurately as may be by a man's manner
of dress and the hours of his labour and the size of the house he inhabits, whether he have
more than a certain yearly revenue; any man discovered to have more than this revenue is immediately
appointed to the office of which I speak.

The power of these assessors is limited, however, for though it is left to their discretion
whether their fellow-citizens are worthy of punishment or not, yet the total punishment they
can inflict is limited to a certain number of years of imprisonment. In old times this sort
of minor judge was not appointed in Monomotapa unless he could prove that he kept dogs in great
numbers for the purposes of hunting, and at least three horses. But this foolish prejudice
has broken down in the progress of modern enlightenment, and, as I have said, the test is now
extended to a general consideration of clothes, the size of the house inhabited, and the amount
of leisure enjoyed, the type of tobacco smoked, and other equally reasonable indications of
judicial capacity.

The men thus chosen to consider the actions of their fellow-citizens in courts of law are rewarded
in two ways: the first small body who are the more powerful magistrates are given a hundred
times the income of an ordinary citizen, for it is claimed that in this way not only are the
best men for the purpose obtained, but, further, so large a salary makes all temptation to
bribery impossible and secures a strict impartiality between rich and poor.

The lesser judges, on the other hand, are paid nothing, for it is wisely pointed out that a
man who is paid nothing and who volunteers his services to the State will not be the kind of
a man who would take a bribe or who would consider social differences in his judgments.

It is further pointed out by the Monomotapans (I think very reasonably) that the kind of man
who will give his services for nothing, even in the arduous work of imprisoning his fellow-citizens,
will probably be the best man for the job, and does not need to be allured to it by the promise
of a great salary. In this way they obtain both kinds of judges, and, oddly enough, each kind
speaks, acts, and lives much as does the other.

I must next describe the methods by which this interesting and sensible people secure the ends
of their criminal system.

When one of their magistrates has come to the conclusion that on the whole he will have a fellow-citizen
imprisoned, that person is handed over to the guardianship of certain officials, whose business
it is to see that the man does not die during the period for which he is entrusted to them.
When some one of the numerous forms of torture which they are permitted to use has the effect
of causing death, the official responsible is reprimanded and may even be dismissed. The object
indeed of the whole system is to reform and amend the criminal. He is therefore forbidden to
speak or to communicate in any way with human beings, and is segregated in a very small room
devoid of all ornament, with the exception of one hour a day, during which he is compelled
to walk round and round a deep, walled courtyard designed for the purpose of such an exercise.
If (as is often the case) after some years of this treatment the criminal shows no signs of
mental or moral improvement, he is released; and if he is a man of property, lives unmolested
on what he has, and that usually in a quiet and retired way. But if he is devoid of property,
the problem is indeed a difficult one, for it is the business of the police to forbid him to
work, and they are rewarded if he is found committing any act which the judges or the magistrates
are likely to disapprove. In this way even those who have failed to effect reform in their
characters during their first term of imprisonment are commonly--if they are poor--re-incarcerated
within a short time, so that the system works precisely as it was intended to, giving the maximum
amount of reformation to the worst and the hardest characters. I should add that the Monomotapan
character is such that in proportion to wealth a man's virtues increase, and it is remarkable
that nearly all those who suffer the species of imprisonment I have described are of the poorer
classes of society.

Though they are so reasonable, and indeed afford so excellent a model to ourselves in most
of their social relations, the people of Monomotapa have, I confess, certain customs which
I have never clearly understood, and which my increasing study of them fails to explain to me.

Thus, in matters which, with us, are thought susceptible of positive proof (such as the taste
and quality of cooking, or the mental abilities of a fellow-citizen) the Monomotapans establish
their judgment in a transcendental or super-rational manner. The cooking in a restaurant or
hotel is with them excellent in proportion, not to the taste of the viands subjected to it,
but to the rental of the premises. And when a man desires the most delicious food he does not
consider where he has tasted such food in the past, but rather the situation and probable rateable
value of the eating-house which will provide him with it. Nay, he is willing--if he understands
that that rateable value is high--to pay far more for the same article than he would in a humbler
hostelry.

The same super-rational method, as I have called it, applies to the Monomotapan judgment of
political ability; for here it is not what a man has said or written, nor whether he has proved
himself capable of foreseeing certain events of moment to the State, it is not these characters
that determine his political career, but a mixture of other indices, one of which is that his
brothers shall be younger than himself, another that when he speaks he shall strike the palm
of his open left hand with his clenched right hand in a particular manner by no means commonly
or easily acquired; another that he shall not wear at one and the same time a coat which is
bifurcated and a hat of hemispherical outline; another that he shall keep silence upon certain
types of foreigners who frequent the markets of Monomotapa, and shall even pretend that they
are not foreigners but Monomotapans; and this index of statesmanship he must preserve under
all circumstances, even when the foreigners in question cannot speak the Monomotapan language.

Some years ago it was required of every statesman that he should, for at least so many times
in any one year, extravagantly praise the virtues of these foreign merchants, and particularly
allude to their intensely unforeign character; but this custom has recently fallen into abeyance,
and silence upon the subject is the most that is demanded.

A further social habit of this people which we should find very strange and which I for my
part think unaccountable is their habit of judging the excellence of a literary production,
not by the sense or even the sound of it, but by the ink in which it is printed and the paper
upon which it is impressed. And this applies not only to their letters but also to their foreign
information, and on this account they should (one would imagine) obtain but a very distorted
view of the world. For if a good printer prints with excellent ink at five shillings a pound,
and with beautiful clear type upon the best linen paper, the statement that the British Islands
are uninhabited, while another in bad ink and upon flimsy paper and with worn type affirms
that they contain over forty million souls, the first impression and not the second would be
conveyed to the Monomotapan, mind. As a fact, however, they are not misinformed, for this singular
frailty of theirs (as I conceive it to be) is moderated by one very wise countervailing mental
habit of theirs, which is to believe whatever they hear asserted more than twenty-six times,
so that even if the assertion be conveyed to them in bad print and upon poor paper, they will
believe it if they read it over and over again to the required limits of reiterations.

No people in the world are fonder of animals than this genial race, but here again curious
limits to their affection are to be discovered, for while they will tear to pieces some abandoned
wretch who beats a llama with a hazel twig for its correction, they will see nothing remarkable
in the tearing to pieces of an alpaca goat by dogs specially trained in that exercise.

Generally speaking, the larger an animal is, the warmer is the affection borne it by these
people. Fleas and lice are crushed without pity, blackbeetles with more hesitation, small birds
are spared entirely, and so on upwards until for calves they have a special legislation to
protect and cherish them. At the other end of the scale, microbes are pitilessly exterminated.

Divorce is not common in Monomotapa. But such divorces as take place are very rightly treated
differently, according to the wealth of the persons involved. Above a certain scale of wealth
divorce is only granted after a lengthy trial in a court of justice; but with the poor it is
established by the decree of a magistrate who usually, shortly after pronouncing his sentence,
finds an occasion to imprison the innocent party. Moreover, the poor can be divorced in this
manner, if any magistrate feels inclined to exercise his power, while for the divorce of the
rich set conditions are laid down.

I should add that the Monomotapans have no religion; but the tolerance of their Constitution
is nowhere better shown than in this particular, for though they themselves regard religion
as ridiculous, they will permit its exercise within the State, and even occasionally give high
office and emoluments to those who practise it.

We have, indeed, much to learn in this matter of religion from the race whose habits I have
discovered and here describe. Nothing, perhaps, has done more to warp our own story than the
hide-bound prejudice that a doctrine could not be both false and true at the same time, and
the unreasoning certitude, inherited from the bad old days of clerical tyranny, that a thing
either was or was not.

No such narrowness troubles the Monomotapan. He will prefer--and very wisely prefer--an opinion
that renders him comfortable to one that in any way interferes with his appetites; and if two
such opinions contradict each other, he will not fall into a silly casuistry which would attempt
to reconcile them: he will quietly accept both, and serve the Higher Purpose with a contented mind.

It is on this account that I have said that the Monomotapans regard religion as ridiculous.
For true religion, indeed (as they phrase it), they have the highest reverence; and true religion
consists in following the inclinations of an honest man, that is, oneself; but "religion in
the sense of fixed doctrine," as one of their priests explained to me, "is abhorrent to our
free commonwealth." Thus such hair-splitting questions as whether God really exists or no,
whether it be wrong to kill or to steal, whether we owe any duties to the State, and, if so,
what duties, are treated by the honest Monomotapans with the contempt they deserve: they abandon
such speculation for the worthy task of enjoying, each man, what his fortune permits him to enjoy.

But, as I have said above, they do not persecute the small minority living in their midst who
cling with the tenacity of all starved minds to their fixed ideas; and if a man who professes
certitude upon doctrinal matters is useful in other ways, they are very far from refusing his
services to the State. I have known more than one, for instance, of this old-fashioned and
bigoted lot who, when he offered a sum of money in order to be admitted to the Senate of Monomotapa,
found it accepted as readily and cheerfully as though it had been offered by one of the broadest
principles and most liberal mind.

Let no one be surprised that I have spoken of their priests, for though the Monomotapans regard
religion with due contempt, it does not follow that they will take away the livelihood of a
very honest class of people who in an older and barbaric state of affairs were employed to
maintain the structure of what was then a public worship. The priesthood, therefore, is very
justly and properly retained by the Monomotapans, subject only to a few simple duties and to
a sacred intonation of voice very distressing to those not accustomed to it. If I am asked
in what occupation they are employed, I answer, the wealthier of them in such sports and futilities
as attract the wealthy, and the less wealthy in such futilities and sports as the less wealthy
customarily enjoy. Nor is it a rigid law among them that the sons of priests should be priests,
but only the custom--so far, at least, as I have been able to discover.

LETTER OF ADVICE AND APOLOGY TO A YOUNG BURGLAR

My dear Ormond,

Nothing was further from my thoughts. I had imagined you knew me well enough--and, for the
matter of that, all your mother's family--to judge me better. Believe me, no conception of
blaming your profession entered my mind for a moment. Whether there be such a thing as "property"
in the abstract I should leave it to metaphysicians to decide: in practical affairs everything
must be judged in its own surroundings.

It was not upon any musty theological whimsy that I wrote; the definition of stealing or "theft"--I
care not by what name you call it--is not for practical men to discuss. Nor was I concerned
with the ethical discussion of burglary (to give the matter its old legal and technical title);
it was lack of judgment, sudden actions due to nothing but impulse, and what I think I may
call "the speculative side" of a burglar's life.

You have not, as yet, any great responsibilities. No one is dependent upon you--you have but
yourself to provide for; but you must remember that such responsibilities will arrive in their
natural course, and that if you form habits of rashness or obstinacy now they will cling to
you through life. We are all looking forward to a certain event when Anne is free again; in
plain English, my boy, we know your loyal heart, and we shall bless the union; but I should
feel easier in my mind if I saw you settled into one definite branch of the profession before
you undertook the nurture of a family.

Adventure tempts you because you are brave, and something of a poet in you leads you to unusual
scenes of action. Well, Youth has a right to its dreams, but beware of letting a dangerous
Quixotism spoil your splendid chances.

Take, for example, your breaking into Mr. Cowl's house. You may say Mr. Cowl was not a journalist,
but only a reviewer; the distinction is very thin, but let it pass. You know and I know that
the houses of none in any way connected with the daily Press should ever be approached. It
is plain common sense. The journalist comes home at all hours of the night. His servant (if
he keeps one) is often up before he is abed. Do you think to enter such houses unobserved?

Again, in one capacity or another, the journalist is dealing with our profession all day long.
Some he serves and knows as masters; others he is employed in denouncing at about forty-two
shillings the 1600 words; others again it is his business to interview and to pacify or cajole
in the lobbies of the House--do you think he would not know what you were if he found you in
the kitchen with a dark lantern?

There is another peril--I mean that of alienating friends. Mr. Cowl is an Imperialist--of a
very unemphatic type: he wears (as you will say) gold spectacles, and has a nervous cough,
but he is an Imperialist. I never said that it was wrong or even foolish to alienate such a
man. I said that a great and powerful section of opinion thought it a breach of honour in one
of Ours to do it. Do not run away with the first impression my words convey. Believe me, I
weigh them all.

There has been so much misunderstanding that I hardly know what to choose. Take those watches.
I did not say that watches were "a mere distraction." You have put the words into my mouth.
What I said was that watches, especially watches at a Tariff Reform meeting, were not worth
the risk. Of course a hatful of watches, such as your Uncle Robert would bring home from fires,
or better still, such a load as your poor cousin Charles obtained upon Empire Day last year,
has value. But how many gold watches are there, off the platform, at a Tariff Reform meeting?
And what possible chance have you of getting on the platform? Now church and purses, that is
another thing, but your mid-Devon adventure was simple folly.

Who is Lord Darrell? I never heard of him! For Heaven's sake don't get caught by a title. Do
you know any of the servants? His butler or his secretary? The fellow who catalogues the library
is useful. Do recollect that lots of the ornaments in those Mayfair houses are fastened to
the wall. That is where your dear father failed over the large Chinese jar in Park Street....
Your mother would never forgive me if you were to get into another of your boyish scrapes.

There is another little matter, my dear Ormond, which I wish you to lay to heart very seriously.
Now do take an old man's advice and do not get up upon your Quixotic hobby-horse the moment
you sniff what it is--for I suppose you have guessed it already. Yes, it is what you feared:
I want to urge you to follow your mother's ardent wish and add commission business to your
other work. I know very well that young men must dream their dreams, but the world is what
it is, and after all there is nothing so very dreadful in the commission side of our profession.
You do not come into direct relation with the collectors of curios and church ornaments: there
is always an agent to break the crudeness of the connexion. And it is a certain and profitable
source of income with none of the risks attached to it that the older branches of the profession
unfortunately show. Moreover, it affords excellent opportunities for foreign travel, and gives
one a special position very difficult to define, but easily appreciable among one's colleagues.

George Burton made to my knowledge three thousand pounds last year in a short season; he got
this very large commission without the necessity of breaking into a single public-house; he
earned it entirely upon objects taken out of churches upon the Continent, and in only three
cases had he to pick a pocket. It would have hurt him very much with his knowledge and tastes
to have had to break a stained-glass window.

Do consider this, my dear Ormond, for your mother's sake. Don't think for a moment that I am
advising you to take up any of those forms of work which we both agree in despising, and which
are quite unworthy of your traditions, as for instance stealing pictures on commission out
of the houses of dealers and then turning detective to recover them again. It is much too easy
work for a man of your talents, much too ill-paid, and much too dangerous. It is all very well
for the picture dealer to leave the door open, but what if the policeman is not in the know?
No, you will always find me on your side in your steady refusal to have anything to do with
this kind of business.

Ormond, my dear lad, bear me no ill-will. It is true of every profession, of the Bar and of
the City, of homicide, medicine, the Services, even Politics--everything, that success only
comes slowly, and that the experience of older men is the key to it.

Tomorrow is Ascension Day, and I am at leisure. Come and dine with me at the Colonial Club
at eight for eight-fifteen. I will show you a magnificent littla tanagra I picked up yesterday,
and we will talk about the new prospectus.

God bless you! (Dress.)

Your affectionate Uncle

THE MONKEY QUESTION: AN APPEAL TO COMMON SENSE

A privileged body slips so easily into regarding its privileges as common rights that I fear
the plea which the SIMIAN LEAGUE repeats in this pamphlet will still sound strange in the ears
of many, though the work of the League has been increasingly successful and has reached yearly
a wider circle of the educated public since its foundation by Lady Wayne in 1902. We desire
to place before our fellow-citizens the claims of Monkeys, and we hope once more that nothing
we say may seem extreme or violent, for we know full well what poor weapons violence and passion
are in the debate of a practical political matter.

Perhaps it is best to begin by pointing out how rarely even the best of us pause in our fevered
race for wealth to consider the disabilities of any of our fellow-creatures: when that truth
is grasped it will be easier to plead the special cause of the Simian. 

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The accomplished author of 'Intuitive Morals,' in an article in
Fraser's Magazine, entitled 'A Day at the Dead Sea,' takes occasion
to render a high tribute to the courtesy of our countrymen.

She writes:

'If at any time I needed to find a gentleman who should aid me in any
little difficulties of travel, or show me a kindness, with that consideration
for a woman, as a woman, which is the true tone of manly courtesy, then
I should desire to find a North American gentleman.... They are simply
the most kind and courteous of any people.'

It is with heartfelt pleasure that I return this compliment, in this
account of my winter journey, which, but for the constant and delicate
kindness of her countrymen, would have proved wellnigh insupportable.

DIARY OF FRANCES KRASINSKA;

OR, LIFE IN POLAND DURING THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

January 3d.

Yesterday,
amid the drinking of toasts, the peals of joyous music, and the volleys
of musketry from our dragoons in honor of the investiture of the Duke
of Courland, the chamberlain despatched to Warsaw returned, with
letters announcing that the ceremony had been delayed, on account
of the king's illness: it has been postponed until the eighth of January.

Our little Matthias says it is a bad omen, and that as the ducal crown
eludes his grasp, so will a royal one. I felt quite uneasy,... but
then there came several visitors, and they distracted my thoughts. After
dinner came Madame Dembinska, wife of the king's cupbearer, with
her sons and daughters; the pantler Jordan, with his wife and son,
and M. Swidinski, Palatine of Braclaw, with his nephew, the Abbé Vincent.

The latter gentleman has been several times at Maleszow; he is a
very pious man; my parents love and esteem him very much.

Although he is quite young, we kiss his hands as a minister of God.

Barbara has completely won his good opinion; he has given her a rosary,
and the 'Christian's Daily Manual.' He was seated next to her at supper,
and even addressed his conversation to her twice. This is not at all astonishing,
for Barbara is so good; besides, she is the eldest, and hence entitled
to more politeness than the rest of us.

Friday, January 5th.

The palatine and his nephew are still with us, and we are daily expecting
other guests.

The eldest of the palatine's sons is Starost of Radom, and the younger is a colonel in the king's army.
The palatine, who has been a widower several years, has also two daughters, one married to Granowski,
Palatine of Rawa, and the other recently wedded to Lauckorouski, Castellan
of Polaniec. I am very curious to see the palatine's sons; they
were educated at Luneville, in France; they must have an air and
manner different from those of our young Poles.

The good King Stanislaus, though he dwells in a foreign land, is always
seeking to be useful to his compatriots; several young Polish gentlemen
are maintained and educated by him at Luneville.

They receive the best instruction, and the sons of our first families strive for the honor,
using the pretext of relationship, however distant, to obtain their desires.
Indeed, they are quite right, for when one can say of a young man,
He has studied at Luneville, and has been to Paris, he has certainly
an excellent foundation for the beginning of his career.

Every one feels quite sure that his manners will be irreproachable,
that he can speak French, and dance the minuet and quadrilles. All
the gentlemen who have been in France are very successful in society,
and very pleasing to ladies.... Really, I am exceedingly curious to
see the palatine's two sons!

Saturday, January 6th.

They finally arrived yesterday afternoon, and do not in the least
correspond to the idea I had formed of them, the starost less than
his brother.

I thought I should see a young, lively, and agreeable man, in short, a young man like Prince Cherry, in
Madame de Beaumont's tales, who would speak French all the time;
but I was quite mistaken.

The starost is no longer young; he is thirty years old, and quite stout; he is not fond of dancing,
and never speaks a single word of French. Every now and then he puts
in a word or two of Latin, like my father.

I am
much better pleased with the colonel; he wears a uniform, is young, and says
at least a few words in French.

To-day is Twelfth day, and Michael Chronowski will be emancipated
before nightfall. They are baking a great cake in the kitchen, with
a bean in it. Who will be king? Heavens, if I were to be queen! I should
wear a crown on my head during the whole evening, and should bear
absolute sway in the castle.... There would be plenty of dancing then,
I'll answer for it!... But whether I command it or not, there must
be dancing, I am sure, for a crowd of visitors has been pouring in
ever since morning; the servants are grumbling, and the keeper of
the table service is quite provoked.

When he sees all the carriages standing on the square facing the church of Piotrkowicé, he says there
is no end to work for him. As for me, I jump with joy; and so it is in
this world, where some are happy from the very cause which makes the
torment of others.

Sunday, January 7th.

How many people! The castle is so gay and lively! We amused ourselves finely.
I was not queen, for Barbara got the bean, and when she saw it in
her portion of the cake, she blushed to her very eyes. Madame, who was
seated near her, announced the fact, and all the guests and attendants
testified their satisfaction by loud shouts.

Our little Matthias laughed and said: She who has the bean will marry
Mr. Michael (kto dostal migdala dostanie Michala) a Polish proverb
always repeated upon such occasions.

It is also a common saying that when a young girl has it, she will be married before the end
of the carnival. God grant that this prophecy may be verified, for then we shall have a wedding,
and abundance of dancing!

I cannot become accustomed to the starost; his gravity does not please
me; he would dance nothing yesterday but Polish dances. He never mentions
Paris or Luneville, and takes no notice of young people; he never
addresses to us any of those little gallantries which are the small
change of good society; he talks only to our parents, plays cards,
and reads the newspapers.

I still continue to think that his brother is worth more than he; at least he is more sociable, he
talks about Paris and Luneville, and is not so old.

But I am forgetting to relate the ceremonies accompanying Michael Chronowski's
emancipation; I was quite diverted with them. When all the company had
assembled in the great hall, my father took his place upon the highest
seat; the folding doors were thrown open, and the steward, accompanied
by several young courtiers, introduced the candidate for emancipation,
very richly dressed in a full suit of new clothes.

He knelt before my father, who touched his cheek lightly in sign
of good will; he then fastened a sword at the young man's side, drank
off a cup of wine, and presented him with a fine horse, accompanied
by a groom, also well mounted and equipped.

The two horses were in the castle court.

My father asked Chronowski if he preferred trying his fortune in the
world or remaining in his service. Michael replied, timidly, that he was very
happy in the castle, but would like to see more of his country, and
ventured to ask a recommendation to Prince Lubomirski, Palatine of Lublin, my
father's brother-in-law.

His request was granted, my father slipped a roll of twenty gold ducats
into his hand, and invited him to remain with us during the carnival.
Chronowski seemed delighted with this proposition, and after paying his homage
to my father and mother, he kissed the hands of all the ladies present;
from that moment he was admitted into our society, and danced his
best in Mazurkas and Cracroviennes with Barbara.

He certainly dances very well, and my sister is equally graceful;
it was charming to see them!

Monday, January 8th.

The prophecy has been really fulfilled!

Barbara is to be married at the termination of the carnival, and she is
to marry Mr. Michael, for such is the name of the Starost Swidzinski.
He asked Barbara's hand of my mother yesterday, and to-morrow they
will be betrothed!

Poor Barbara was all in tears when she came to tell us the great news;
she shrinks from the idea of marriage, and it will be very painful to her to
leave her parents and her home. But it would have been very unadvisable
to have refused the match, when my father and mother assure her that
she will be very happy.

The
starost seems to me a very pious, gentle, and upright man; his family
is noble, ancient, and wealthy. What more is necessary?

The three brothers Swidzinski, Alexander, Michael, and Anthony, died as brave men should, near Chocim,
under the command of the celebrated Chodkiewicz. This renown is a glory for those
who still live. The starost's parents have already conferred upon
him the entire ownership of the castle of Sulgostow.

He holds, besides, a considerable starosty under the king's appointment, and expects soon to be a castellan.
The Palatine Swidzinski and the Abbé Vincent have come to speed
on the marriage; they desire it exceedingly.

The palatine is charmed with Barbara, and I am sure he will love her dearly when he knows her better.
The wedding will take place at the castle of Maleszow on the 25th of February. What fine balls and concerts we shall
have! We will dance until we can scarcely stand. Barbara will be:
Your ladyship the starostine. I shall be very sorry when I can no longer call
her Barbara, dear Barbara.

I really feel quite remorseful at having described the starost so ill in my journal; however, I do
not think I have said anything very offensive. I hope Barbara may be happy, and I think she will be, for
she has always told me she did not like very young people; the starost
is reasonable, and in my mother's opinion such men make the best
husbands.

If my mother says so, it must be true; but for my part, I much prefer
gay and agreeable young men.

One is certainly entitled to one's own individual taste.

I have not forgotten that this is the day selected for the investiture of the prince royal with the dukedom
of Courland. The king's health is reëstablished. Colonel Swidzinski speaks in the highest terms of
Prince Charles, whom he knows very well; but the palatine and his eldest son do not
wish him to succeed his father; they say that the crown should be placed
upon the head of a compatriot.

Wednesday, January 10th.

The betrothal took place yesterday. Dinner was served at the usual
hour.

When Barbara entered the saloon my mother gave her a ball of silk
to untwist; she was red as fire, and her eyes were fixed on the ground. The starost
did not leave her a moment. Our little Matthias laughed with his malicious
air, and gave vent to a thousand pleasantries, which diverted every
one exceedingly; all laughed aloud, and although I did not understand
the meaning of his jests, I laughed more than any one else.

After dinner, Barbara seated herself in the recess by the window; the starost approached her, and said,
aloud:

'Is it indeed true, mademoiselle, that you will oppose no obstacles to
my happiness?'

Barbara replied, in a low and trembling voice:

'My parents' will
has always been for me a sacred duty.'

Here the conversation ended.

When the chamberlains, attendants, and servants had retired, the palatine, followed by the Abbé Vincent,
conducted the starost to my parents, who were seated on a sofa. The palatine addressed my father in the following
words:

'My heart is penetrated with the sincerest affection and most profound esteem
for the illustrious house of the Corvini Krasinski; I have always
ardently desired that the modest arms of Polkozie might be united
with the glorious and illustrious arms of Slepowron.

My happiness is at its height on beholding that your highnesses
will deign to grant me this great honor.

Your daughter Barbara is a model of virtue and grace; my son Michael is
the glory and consolation of my life; deign, then, to consent to the union
of this young couple; deign to confirm your promise on this very day.
Behold the ring which I received from my parents: I placed it upon
the hand of my betrothed, who is, alas! now no more, but who will live
eternally in my heart.

Permit, then, that during a similar ceremony my son may offer it to your daughter, as a token of his affection
and unalterable attachment.'

As he said these words, he placed the ring upon a silver dish held by
the Abbé Vincent. The abbé also made a discourse, but he put so much
Latin into it that I could not understand it.

My father replied to the two speeches in the following terms:

'I am most happy to confirm the promise I have made to you; I consent
to the marriage of my daughter with the starost; I give her my blessing,
and surrender to your honorable son all the rights I possess over
her.'

'I unite in the desires and intentions of my husband,' added
my mother.

'I give this ring to my daughter; it is the most precious jewel of
our house.

My father, Stephen Humiecki, received it from the hand of Augustus II, when he had fortunately succeeded in concluding
the peace of Carlowitz, by which the Turks restored the fortress of Kamieniec-Podolski to the
Poles. With this ring, which recalls so many dear remembrances, was
I myself betrothed; I give it to my eldest daughter, with my blessing,
and the hope that she may be as happy as I have been since my marriage.'

Thus
saying, she placed on the dish a ring set with superb diamonds, enclosing
a miniature of Augustus II.

'Barbara, come to me,' said my father; but the poor child was so confused, so
agitated and trembling, that she could scarcely walk; I cannot understand
how she moved even those few paces. At last, however, she placed herself
at my father's side, and the Abbé Vincent gave them his benediction
in Latin.

One of the rings was given to the starost, and the other to my sister; her betrothed placed it upon the
little finger of her left hand, called the heart finger (serdeczny).
He then kissed Barbara's hand, and she in her turn presented her
ring; but she was so much overcome that she found great difficulty
in encircling the end of his finger with the glittering hoop.

The starost again kissed her hand, after which he threw himself at my parents' feet, and swore
to watch over the happiness of their beloved daughter.

The palatine kissed Barbara on the forehead, while the colonel and the
abbé made her a thousand compliments, each more beautiful than the last.
My father filled a great goblet with old Hungarian wine; he toasted
the new couple, and all who were present drank by turns out of the
same cup.

All this passed so solemnly and tenderly that I wept unrestrainedly.

'Do not weep, little Frances,' said Matthias, who was present at this scene;
'a year hence it will be your turn.'

A year would be too soon; but if it were in two years, I would not
be sorry.

The whole Swidzinski family are so kind and attentive to Barbara!
and my parents for the first time kissed her face when she bade them
good night.

Since yesterday, every one in the castle treats her with the greatest respect;
all congratulate her, and she is overwhelmed with homage and compliments.

Each one would like to be employed in her establishment; my father has
given 1,000 Holland ducats to my mother, recommending her to do all
for her daughter that she may think necessary.

They consulted a long time over the trousseau that should be given
to her. To-morrow Miss Zawistowska will go to Warsaw with the commissary,
to make purchases.

This Miss Zawistowska is a very respectable person; she is about thirty,
and has lived in the castle ever since she was a child.

There are
in the storeroom four large chests filled with silver, destined for
our use.

My father had Barbara's brought to him and examined it carefully; this chest will be sent to Warsaw, that the
silver may be cleaned.

The palatine
and the starost leave us to-morrow. They go to Sulgostow, where they will
make all the preparations necessary for Barbara's reception.

My father has had the customary letters written to announce the marriage,
and will send them by the chamberlains to the various parts of Poland.

The most distinguished among our chamberlains, and an equerry richly
equipped, will depart in two days to carry letters to the king, the
princes his sons, the primate, and the principal senators.

My father announces the marriage, and begs them to give it their benediction;
if he does not exactly invite them, he gives them to understand that he would
feel highly honored by their presence. Ah! if one of the princes were
to come--the Duke of Courland, for example--what a lustre it would throw
upon the wedding! But they will merely send their representatives,
as is usual upon such occasions.

The castle is in a state of constant activity; great preparations are making
for the approaching festivities.

The starost has displayed an unexampled generosity; he has made us all the most beautiful presents.
He has given me a turquoise pin; Sophia has received a ruby cross; Mary, a Venetian chain, and even my parents
have condescended to accept gifts from him. My father has a silver-gilt goblet,
admirably chased; and my mother, a beautiful box made of mother-of-pearl
mounted in gold.

Even madame has not been forgotten, for
she found a blonde mantle on her bed this morning; she praises the
generosity of the Polish lords to the skies.

But this is the only virtue she concedes to our nation, so that I cannot
love madame; her injustice toward my countrymen repels me.

We had yesterday a grand state supper; the orchestra played unceasingly,
toasts were drunk in honor of the happy couple, and the dragoons
fired numberless volleys of musketry; their captain gave them as their
watchword for the day, 'Michael and Barbara.'

Barbara begins to take
courage; she only blushes now when she looks at her ring; she hides
it as much as she can; but it is of no use, for every one sees it,
and the brilliants sparkle like stars.

This morning all the court went hunting, in accordance with the old custom,
which renders this action of good omen to the wedded pair. Formerly
before they set out, the betrothed was obliged to display her ankle
to the hunters.

God be praised that this custom no longer exists, for I am sure
Barbara would have died of shame. But our little Matthias insisted upon
the performance of this ceremony, saying that if it were omitted
the chase would certainly be unfortunate.

For once his prophecy failed; they killed a wild boar, two bucks, an elk, and many hares. The starost
killed the wild boar with his own hand, and laid it at Barbara's feet.

My father had all the horses brought out of his stables for the hunters
to ride upon.

Among them was one of exceeding beauty, but so unmanageable that the best groom had never yet
been able to mount him. The starost was confident he could control
him, and, notwithstanding the terror of the spectators, he leaped
on his back and guided him three times round the castle of Maleszow.

It
was truly a noble sight. Barbara was very pale; she trembled for her betrothed; but when she saw him
so firmly seated on the fiery animal, the bright color returned to
her cheek.

From that moment I felt reconciled to the starost. In truth, he is not so bad; he looks well on horseback,
and possesses that dauntless courage so dear to the heart of a woman. I
must then forgive his ignorance of the minuet and quadrilles. My father gave the
starost the horse he had so well merited, completely caparisoned, and
with a groom to take care of him.

Sunday, January 20th.

I have neglected my journal during the past week; we have been so
busy with the preparations for the marriage; there are such crowds
of people at the castle; every one is occupied doing the honors; both
mornings and afternoons are passed in company.

Our studies are laid aside--the chronology, the French grammar, and even
Madame de Beaumont lie quiet and undisturbed in their places. We
are busily engaged with our needles, because each one of us desires
to make a present to Barbara. I am embroidering a morning dress, which
will be charming; I even steal some hours from my sleep that I may
the sooner finish it. Mary is embroidering a straw-colored muslin,
with shaded silks mingled with gold thread, and Sophia is making a
lovely toilet cover.

My mother is entirely occupied with the trousseau;
she opens her wardrobes and chests, bringing out linen, cloth, furs,
curtains, and tapestry. I help her as well as I can; she is sometimes
good enough to ask my opinion; she is so scrupulous, so much afraid
of not dividing our shares equally. She is so particular, that she
even sends for the chaplain to judge of the exactness of the division. Even in that uncomplaining action,
the uncomplaining forfeiture of the comparatively large sum which necessity demanded, one could
detect the financial grip which is the true arbiter of the fates of nations. He needed the
paper: he did not haggle about the price. He first mastered the exact words of the announcement,
and then, looking up at me with a face of paper, he said:

"It is not only postponed, but all this preparation is thrown away."

I have said that I have no commercial aptitude; I admit that I was puzzled.

"Surely," said I, "this is exactly what you needed?"

He shook his head, still restraining, by a powerful effort, the natural expression of his grief,
and showed me, for all his answer, a rail way ticket to Boulogne which he had purchased, and
which was available for the night boat on the eve of the Function. I then understood what he
meant when he said that all his preparations had been thrown away.

I do not know whether I did right or wrong--I felt myself to be nothing more than a blind instrument
in the hands of the superior power which governs the destinies of a people.

"How much did the ticket cost?" said I.

"Thirty shillings," said he.

I pulled out a sovereign and a half-sovereign from my pocket, and said:

"Here is the money. I have leisure, and I would as soon go to Boulogne as to Sutherlandshire."

He did not thank me effusively, as might one of the more excitable and less efficient races;
but he grasped my hand and blessed me silently. I then left him.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the steamer to Boulogne, as I was musing over this strange adventure, a sturdy Anglo-Saxon
man, a true son of Drake or Raleigh, came up and asked me for my ticket. As I gave it him my
eye fell idly upon the price of the ticket. It was twenty-five shillings--but I had saved a
directing and creative mind.

If he should come across these lines he will remember me. He is probably in the House of Commons
by now. Perhaps he has bought his peerage. Wherever he is I hope he will remember me.

CAEDWALLA

Caedwalla, a prince out of Wales (though some deny it), wandered in the Andredsweald. He was
nineteen years of age and his heart was full of anger for wrong that had been done him by men
of his own blood. For he was rightfully heir to the throne of the kingdom of Sussex, but he
was kept from it by the injustice of men.

A retinue went with him of that sort which will always follow adventure and exile. These, the
rich of the seacoast and of the Gwent called broken men; but they loved their Lord. So he went
hunting, feeding upon what he slew, and proceeding from steading to steading in the sparse
woods of Andred where is sometimes an open heath, and sometimes a mile of oak, and often a
clay swamp, and, seen from little lifted knolls of sand where the broom grows and the gorse,
the Downs to the south like a wall.

As he so wandered upon one day, he came upon another man of a very different fashion, for Caedwalla
would have nothing to do with the Cross of Christ, nor with the customs of the towns, nor with
the talk of foreign men. But this man was a bishop wandering, and his name was Wilfrid. He
also had his little retinue, and, by an accident of his office or of his exile, he had proceeded
to a steading in the heaths and woods of the Weald where also was Caedwalla: so they met. The
pride and the bearing of Wilfrid, seeing that he was of a Roman town and an officer of the
State, and a bishop to boot, nay, a bishop above bishops, was not the pride Caedwalla loved,
and the young man bore himself with another sort of pride, which was that of the mountains
and of pagan men. Nevertheless Wilfrid put before him, with Roman rhetoric and with uplifted
hands, the story of our Lord, and Caedwalla, keeping his face set during all that recital,
could not forbid this story to sink into the depths of his heart, where for many years it remained,
and did no more than remain.

The kingdom of Sussex, cultivated by men of various kinds, received Wilfrid the Bishop wherever
he went. He did many things that do not here concern me, and his chief work was to make the
rich towns of the sea plain and of Chichester and of Lewes and of Arundel, and of the steadings
of the Weald, and of the wealden markets also, Christian men; for he showed them that it was
a mean thing to go about in a hairy way like pagans, unacquainted with letters, and of imperfect
ability in the making of raiment or the getting of victuals. Indeed, as I have written in another
place, it was St. Wilfrid who taught the King of Sussex and his men how to catch fish in nets.
They revered him everywhere, and when they had given up their shameful barbarism and decently
accepted the rules of life and the religion of it, they pressed upon St. Wilfrid that he should
found a bishopric, and that it should have a cathedral and a see (all of which things he had
explained to them), and he did this on Selsey Bill: but to-day the sea has swallowed all.

Time passed, and the young man Caedwalla, still a very young man in the twenties, came to his
own, and he sat on the throne that was rightfully his in Chichester and he ruled all Sussex
to its utmost boundaries. And he was king of much more, as history shows, but all the while
he proudly refused in his young man's heart the raiment and the manner of the thing which he
had hated in his exile, nor would he accept the Latin prayers, nor bow to the name of the Christian
God.

Caedwalla, still so young but now a king, thought it shameful that he should rule no more than
the empire God had given him, and he was filled with a longing to cross the sea and to conquer
new land. Wherefore, whether well or ill advised, he set out to cross the sea and to conquer
the Isle of Wight, of which story said that Wight the hero had established his kingdom there
in the old time before writing was, and when there were only songs. So Caedwalla and his fighting
men, they landed in that island and they fought against the many inhabitants of it, and they
subdued it, but in these battles Caedwalla was wounded.

It happened that the King of that island, whose name was Atwald, had two heirs, youths, whom
it was pitifully hoped this conqueror would spare, for they fled up the Water to Stoneham;
but a monk who served God by the ford of reeds which is near Hampton at the head of the Water,
hearing that King Caedwalla (who was recovering of wounds he had had in the war with the men
of Wight) had heard of the youths' hiding-place and had determined to kill them, sought the
King and begged that at least they might be instructed in the Faith before they died, saying
to him: "King, though you are not of the Faith, that is no reason that you should deprive others
of such a gift. Let me therefore see that these young men are instructed and baptized, after
which you may exercise your cruel will." And Caedwalla assented. These lads, therefore, were
taken to a holy place up on Itchen, where they were instructed in the truths and the mysteries
of religion. And while this so went forward Caedwalla would ask from time to time whether they
were yet Christians.

At last they had received all the knowledge the holy men could give them and they were baptized.
When they were so received into the fold Caedwalla would wait no longer but had them slain.
And it is said that they went to death joyfully, thinking it to be no more than the gate of
immortality.

After such deeds Caedwalla still reigned over the kingdom of Sussex and his other kingdoms,
nor did he by speech or manner give the rich or poor about him to understand whether anything
was passing in his heart. But while they sang Mass in the cathedral of Selsey and while still
the new-comers came (now more rarely, for nearly all were enrolled): while the new-comers came,
I say, in their last numbers from the remotest parts of the forest ridge, and from the loneliest
combes of the Downs to hear of Christ and his cross and his resurrection and the salvation
of men, Caedwalla sat in Chichester and consulted his own heart only and was a pagan King.
No one else you may say in all the land so kept himself apart.

His youth had been thus spent and he thus ruled, when as his thirtieth year approached he gave
forth a decision to his nobles and to his earls and to the Welsh-speaking men and to the seafaring
men and to the priests and to all his people. He said: "I will take ship and I will go over
the sea to Rome, where I may worship at the tombs of the blessed Apostles, and there I will
be baptized. But since I am a king no one but the Pope shall baptize me. I will do penance
for my sins. I will lift my eyes to things worthy of a man. I will put behind me what was dear
to me, and I will accept that which is to come." And as they could not alter Caedwalla in any
of his previous decisions, so they could not alter him in this. But his people gave gladly
for the furnishing of his journey, and all the sheep of the Downs and their fleece, and all
the wheat in the clay steadings of the Weald, and the little vineyards in the priests' gardens
that looked towards the sea, and the fishermen, and every sort in Sussex that sail or plough
or clip or tend sheep or reap or forge iron at the hammer ponds, gave of what they had to King
Caedwalla, so that he went forth with a good retinue and many provisions upon his journey to
the tombs of the Apostles.

When King Caedwalla came to Rome the Pope received him and said: "I hear that you would be
instructed in the Faith." To which King Caedwalla answered that such was his desire, and that
he would crave baptism at the hands of the said Pope. And meanwhile Caedwalla took up good
lodgings in Rome, gave money to the poor, and showed himself abroad as one who had come from
the ends of the earth, that is, from the kingdom of Sussex, which in those days was not yet
famous. Caedwalla, now being thirty years old and having learnt what one should learn in order
to receive baptism, was baptized, and they put a white robe on him which he was to wear for
certain days.

King Caedwalla, when he was thus made one with the unity of Christian men, was very glad. But
he also said that before he had lost that white robe so given him, death would come and take
him (though he was a young man and a warrior), and that not in battle. He was certain it was so.

And so indeed it came about. For within the limit of days during which ritual demanded that
the King should wear his white garment, nay, within that same week, he died.

So those boys who had found death at his hands had died after baptism, up on Itchen in the
Gwent, when Caedwalla the King had journeyed out of Sussex to conquer and to hold the Wight
with his spear and his sword and his shield, and his captains and his armoured men.

Now that you have done reading this story you may think that I have made it up or that it is
a legend or that it comes out of some storyteller's book. Learn, therefore, that it is plain
history, like the battle of Waterloo or the Licensing Bill (differing from the chronicle only
in this, that I have put living words into the mouths of men), and be assured that the history
of England is a very wonderful thing.

A UNIT OF ENGLAND

England has been lucky in its type of subdivision. All over Western Europe the type of subdivision
following in the fall of the Empire has been of capital importance in the development of the
great nations, but while these have elsewhere been exaggerated to petty kingdoms or diminished
to mere townships in Britain, for centuries the counties have formed true and lasting local
units, and they have survived with more vigour than the corresponding divisions of the other
provinces of Roman Europe.

That accident of the county moulded and sustained local feeling during the generations when
local government and local initiative were dying elsewhere; it has preserved a sort of aristocratic
independence, the survival of custom, and the differentiation of the State.

It is not necessarily (as many historians unacquainted with Europe as a whole have taken for
granted) a supreme advantage for any people to escape from institution of a strong central
executive. Such a power is the normal fruit of all high civilizations. It protects the weak
against the strong. It is necessary for rapid action in war, it makes for clarity and method
during peace, it secures a minimum for all, and it forbids the illusions and vices of the rich
to taint the whole commonwealth.

But though such an escape from strong central government and the substitution for it of a ruling
class is not a supreme advantage, it has advantages of its own which every foreign historian
of England has recognized, and it is the divisions into counties which, after the change of
religion in the sixteenth century, was mainly responsible for the slow substitution of local
and oligarchic for general, central, and bureaucratic government in England.

Not all the counties by any means are true to type. All the Welsh divisions, for instance,
are more or less artificial and late, with the exception of Anglesey. And as for the non-Roman
parts, Ireland and the Highlands of Scotland, it goes without saying that the county never
was, and is not to this day, a true unit. The central and much of the west of England is the
same. That is, the shires are cut as their name implies, somewhat arbitrarily, from the general
mass of territory.

When one says "arbitrarily" one does not mean that no local sentiment bound them, or that they
had not some natural basis, for they had. They were the territory of central towns: Shrewsbury,
Warwick, Derby, Chester, Oxford, Buckingham, Bedford, Nottingham. But their life was not and
has not since been strongly individual. They have not continuous boundaries nor an early national
root. But all round these, in a sort of ring, run the counties which have had true local life
from the beginning. Cornwall is utterly different from Devon, and with a clear historic reason
for the difference. Devon, again, is a perfectly separate unit, resulting from a definite political
act of the early ninth century. Of Dorset and Hampshire one can say less, but with Sussex you
get a unit which has been one kingdom and one diocese, set in true natural limits and lying
within these same boundaries for much more than a thousand years. Kent, probably an original
Roman division, has been one unit for longer still. Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex are equally
old, though not upon their land boundaries equally denned; but perhaps the most sharply defined
of all--after Sussex, at least--was Southern and Central Lancashire.

Its topography was like one of those ideal examples which military instructors take for their
models when they wish to simplify a lesson upon terrain. Upon one side ran the long, high,
and difficult range which is the backbone of England; upon the other the sea, and the sea and
the mountains leant one towards the other, making two sides of a triangle that met above Morecambe
Bay.

How formidable the natural barriers of this triangle were it is not easy for the student of
our time to recognize. It needs a general survey of the past, and a knowledge of many unfamiliar
conditions in the present, to appreciate it.

The difficulty of those Eastern moors and hills, for instance, the resistance they offer to
human passage, meets you continually throughout English history. The engineers of the modern
railways could give one a whole romance of it; the story of every army that has had to cross
them, and of which we have record, bears the same witness. The illusion which the modern traveller
may be under that the barrier is negligible is very soon dispelled when for his recreation
he crosses it by any other methods than the railway; and perhaps in such an experience of travel
nothing more impresses one in the character of that barrier than the loneliness.

There is no other corresponding contrast of men and emptiness that I know of in Europe.

The great towns lie, enormous, pullulating, millioned in the plains on either side; they push
their limbs up far into the valleys. Between them, utterly deserted, you have these miles and
miles of bare upland, like the roof of a house between two crowded streets.

Merely to cross the Pennines, driving or on foot, is sufficient to teach one this. To go the
length of the hills along the watershed from the Peak to Crossfell (few people have done it!)
is to get an impression of desertion and separation which you will match nowhere else in travel,
nowhere else, at least, within touch and almost hearing of great towns.

The sea also was here more of a barrier than a bond. Ireland--not Roman, and later an enemy--lay
over against that shore. Its ports (save one) silted. Its slope from the shore was shallow:
the approach and the beaching of a fleet not easy. Its river mouths were few and dangerous.

This triangle of Lancashire, so cut off from the west and from the east, had for its base a
barrier that completed its isolation. That barrier was the marshy valley of the Mersey. It
could be outflanked only at its extreme eastern point, where the valley rises to the hundred-foot
contour line. From that point the valley rises so rapidly within half a dozen miles into the
eastern hills that it was dry even under primitive conditions, and the opportunity here afforded
for a passage is marked by the topographical point of Stockport.

By that gate the main avenues of approach still enter the county. Through this gap passed the
London Road, and passes to-day the London and North-Western Railway. It was this gate which
gave its early strategic importance to Manchester, lying just north of it and holding the whole
of this corner.

Historians have noted that to hold Manchester was ultimately to hold Lancashire itself. It
was not the industrial importance of the town, for that was hardly existent until quite modern
times: it was its strategic position which gave it such a character. The Roman fort at the
junction of the two rivers near Knott Mill represented the first good defensible position commanding
this gate upon the south-east.

To enter the county anywhere west of the hundred-foot contour and the Mersey Valley was, for
an army deprived of modern methods, impossible: a little organized destruction would make it
impossible again.

Two artificial causeways negotiated the valley. Each bears to this day (at Stretford and at
Stretton) the proof of its old character, for both words indicate the passage of a "street,"
that is, of a hard-made way, over the soft and drowned land. Stretford was but the approach
to Manchester from Chester--and Manchester thus commanded (by the way) the two south-eastern
approaches to the county, the one natural, the other artificial. The approach by Stretton gave
Warrington its strategic importance in the early history of the county; Warrington, the central
point upon the Mersey, standing at a clear day's march from Liverpool, the port on the one
hand, and a clear day's march from Manchester on the other. It was from Warrington that Lord
Strange marched upon Manchester at the very beginning of the Civil War, and if by some accident
this stretch of territory should again be a scene of warfare, Warrington, in spite of the close
network of modern communications, would be the strategic centre of the county boundary.

So one might take the units out of which modern England has been built up one by one, showing
that their boundaries were fixed by nature, and that their local separation was not the product
of the pirate raids, but is something infinitely older, older than the Empire, and very probably
(did we know what the Roman divisions of Britain were) accepted under the Empire. So one might
prove or at least suggest that the strategical character of the English county and of its chief
stronghold and barriers lay in an origin far beyond the limits of recorded history. To produce
such a study would be to add to the truth and reality of our history, for England was not made
nor even moulded by the Danish and the Saxon raids. The framework is far, far older and so
strong that it still survives.

THE RELIC

It was upon an evening in Spain, but with nothing which that word evokes for us in the North--for
it was merely a lessening of the light without dews, without mists, and without skies--that
I came up a stony valley and saw against the random line of the plateau at its head the dome
of a church. The road I travelled was but faintly marked, and was often lost and mingled with
the rough boulders and the sand, and in the shallow depression of the valley there were but
a few stagnant pools.

The shape of the dome was Italian, and it should have stood in an Italian landscape, drier
indeed than that to which Northerners are accustomed, but still surrounded by trees, and with
a distance that could render things lightly blue. Instead of that this large building stood
in the complete waste which I have already described at such length, which is so appalling
and so new to an European from any other province of Europe. As I approached the building I
saw that there gathered round it a village, or rather a group of dependent houses; for the
church was so much larger than anything in the place, and the material of which the church
itself and the habitations were built was so similar, the flat old tiled roofs all mixed under
the advance of darkness into so united a body, that one would have said, as was perhaps historically
the truth, that the church was not built for the needs of the place, but that the borough had
grown round the shrine, and had served for little save to house its servants.

When the long ascent was ended and the crest reached, where the head of the valley merged into
the upper plain, I passed into the narrow first lanes. It was now quite dark. The darkness
had come suddenly, and, to make all things consonant, there was no moon and there were not
any stars; clouds had risen of an even and menacing sort, and one could see no heaven. Here
and there lights began to show in the houses, but most people were in the street, talking loudly
from their doorsteps to each other. They watched me as I came along because I was a foreigner,
and I went down till I reached the central market-place, wondering how I should tell the best
place for sleep. But long before my choice could be made my thoughts were turned in another
direction by finding myself at a turn of the irregular paving, right in front of a vast facade,
and behind it, somewhat belittled by the great length of the church itself, the dome just showed.
I had come to the very steps of the church which had accompanied my thoughts and had been a
goal before me during all the last hours of the day.

In the presence of so wonderful a thing I forgot the object of my journey and the immediate
care of the moment, and I went through the great doors that opened on the Place. These were
carved, and by the little that lingered of the light and the glimmer of the electric light
on the neighbouring wall (for there is electric light everywhere in Spain, but it is often
of a red heat) I could perceive that these doors were wonderfully carved. Already at Saragossa,
and several times during my walking south from thence, I had noted that what the Spaniards
did had a strange affinity to the work of Flanders. The two districts differ altogether save
in the human character of those who inhabit them: the one is pastoral, full of deep meadows
and perpetual woods, of minerals and of coal for modern energy, of harbours and good tidal
rivers for the industry of the Middle Ages; the other is a desert land, far up in the sky,
with an air like a knife, and a complete absence of the creative sense in nature about one.
Yet in both the creation of man runs riot; in both there is a sort of endlessness of imagination;
in both every detail that man achieves in art is carefully completed and different from its
neighbour; and in both there is an exuberance of the human soul: but with this difference,
that something in the Spanish temper has killed the grotesque. Both districts have been mingled
in history, yet it is not the Spaniard who has invigorated the Delta of the Rhine and the high
country to the south of it, nor the Walloons and the Flemings who have taught the Spaniards;
but each of these highly separated peoples resembles the other when it comes to the outward
expression of the soul: why, I cannot tell.

Within, there is not a complete darkness, but a series of lights showing against the silence
of the blackness of the nave; and in the middle of the nave, like a great funeral thing, was
the choir which these Spanish churches have preserved, an intact tradition, from the origins
of the Christian Faith. Go to the earliest of the basilicas in Rome, and you will see that
sacred enclosure standing in the middle of the edifice and taking up a certain proportion of
the whole. We in the North, where the Faith lived uninterruptedly and, after the ninth century,
with no great struggle, dwindled this feature and extended the open and popular space, keeping
only the rood-screen as a hint of what had once been the Secret Mysteries and the Initiations
of our origins. But here in Spain the earliest forms of Christian externals crystallized, as
it were; they were thrust, like an insult or a challenge, against the Asiatic as the reconquest
of the desolated province proceeded; and therefore in every Spanish church you have, side by
side with the Christian riot of art, this original hierarchic and secret thing, almost shocking
to a Northerner, the choir, the Coro, with high solemn walls shutting out the people from the
priests and from the Mysteries as they had been shut out when the whole system was organized
for defence against an inimical society around.

The silence of the place was not complete nor, as I have said, was the darkness. At the far
end of the choir, behind the high altar, was the light of many candles, and there were people
murmuring or whispering, though not at prayers. There was a young priest passing me at that
moment, and I said to him in Latin of the common sort that I could speak no Spanish. I asked
him if he could speak to me slowly in Latin, as I was speaking to him. He answered me with
this word, "Paucissime," which I easily understood. I then asked him very carefully, and speaking
slowly, whether Benediction were about to be held--an evening rite; but as I did not know the
Latin for Benediction, I called it alternately "Benedictio," which is English, and "Salus,"
which is French. He said twice, "Si, si," which, whether it were Italian or French or local,
I understood by the nodding of his head; but at any rate he had not caught my meaning, for
when I came behind the high altar where the candles were, and knelt there, I clearly saw that
no preparations for Benediction were toward. There was not even an altar. All there was was
a pair of cupboard doors, as it were, of very thickly carved wood, very heavily gilded and
very old; indeed, the pattern of the carving was barbaric, and I think it must have dated from
that turn of the Dark into the Middle Ages when so much of our Christian work resembled the
work of savages: spirals and hideous heads, and serpents and other things.

By this I was already enormously impressed, and by a little group of people around of whom
perhaps half were children, when the young priest to whom I had spoken approached and, calling
a well-dressed man of the middle class who stood by and who had, I suppose, some local prominence,
went up the steps with him towards these wooden doors; he fitted a key into the lock and opened
them wide. The candles shone at once through thick clear glass upon a frame of jewels which
flashed wonderfully, and in their midst was the head of a dead man, cut off from the body,
leaning somewhat sideways, and changed in a terrible manner from the expression of living men.
It was so changed, not only by incalculable age, but also, as I presume, by the violence of
his death.

To those inexperienced in the practice of such worship there might be more excuse for the novel
impression which this sight suddenly produced upon me. Our race from its very beginning, nay,
all the races of men, have preserved the fleshly memorials of those to whom sanctity attached,
and I have seen such relics in many parts of Europe almost as commonplaces; but for some reason
my emotions upon that evening were of a different kind. The length of the way (for I was miles
and miles southwards over this desert waste), the ignorance of the language which surrounded
me, the inhuman outline hour after hour under the glare of the sun, or in the inhospitable
darkness of this hard Iberian land, the sternness of the faces, the violent richness and the
magnitude of the architecture about me, and my knowledge of the trials through which the province
had passed, put me in this Presence into a mood very different, I think, from that which pilgrimage
is calculated to arouse; there was in it much more of awe, and even of terror; there seemed
to re-arise in the presence of that distorted face the memories of active pain and of the unconquerable
struggle by which this ruined land was recovered. I wondered as I looked at that face whether
he had fallen in protest against the Mohammedans, or, as have so many, in a Spanish endurance
of torture, martyred by Pagans in the Pacific Seas. But no history of him was given to me,
nor do I now know as I write what occasion it was that made this head so great.

They said but a few prayers, all familiar to me, in the Latin tongue; then the "Our Father"
and some few others which have always been recited in the vernacular. They next intoned the
Salve Regina. But what an intonation!

Had I not heard that chant often enough in my life to catch its meaning? I had never heard
it set to such a tune! It was harsh, it was full of battle, and the supplication in it throbbed
with present and physical agony. Had I cared less for the human beings about me, so much suffering,
so much national tradition of suffering would have revolted, as it did indeed appal, me. The
chant came to an end, and the three gracious epithets in which it closes were full of wailing,
and the children's voices were very high.

Then the priest shut the doors and locked them, and a boy came and blew the candles out one
by one, and I went out into the market-place, fuller than ever of Spain.

THE IRONMONGER

When I was in the French army we came one day with the guns in July along a straight and dusty
road and clattered into the village called Bar-le-Duc. Of the details of such marches I have
often written. I wish now to speak of another thing, which, in long accounts of mere rumbling
of guns, one might never have time to tell, but which is really the most important of all experiences
under arms in France--I mean the older civilians, the fathers.

Who made the French army? Who determined to recover from the defeats and to play once more
that determined game which makes up half French history, the "Thesaurization," the gradual
reaccumulation of power? The general answer to such questions is to say: "The nation being
beaten had to set to and recover its old position." That answer is insufficient. It deals in
abstractions and it tells you nothing. Plenty of political societies throughout history have
sat down under disaster and consented to sink slowly. Many have done worse--they have maintained
after sharp warnings the pride of their blind years; they have maintained that pride on into
the great disasters, and when these came they have sullenly died. France neither consented
to sink nor died by being overweening. Some men must have been at work to force their sons
into the conscription, to consent to heavy taxation, to be vigilant, accumulative, tenacious,
and, as it were, constantly eager. There must have been classes in which, unknown to themselves,
the stirp of the nation survived; individuals who, aiming at twenty different things, managed,
as a resultant, to carry up the army to the pitch in which I had known it and to lay a slow
foundation for recovered vigour. Who were these men?

I had read of them in Birmingham when I was at school; I had read of them in books when I read
of the Hundred Years' War and of the Revolution. I was to read of them again in books at Oxford.
But on that Saturday at Bar-le-Duc I saw one of them, and by as much as the physical impression
is worth more than the secondary effect of history, my sight of them is worth writing down.

A man in my battery, one Matthieu, told me he had leave to go out for the evening, and told
me also to go and get leave. He said his uncle had asked him to dine and bring a friend. It
seemed his uncle lived in a villa on the heights above the town; he was an ironmonger who had
retired. I went to my Sergeant and asked him for leave.

My Sergeant was a noble who was working his way up through the ranks, and when I found him
he was checking off forage at a barn where some of our men were working. He looked me hard
in the eyes, and said in a drawling lackadaisical voice:

"You are the Englishman?"

"Yes, Sergeant," said I a little anxiously (for I was very keen to get a good dinner in town
after all that marching).

"Well," said he, "as you are the Englishman you can go." Such is the logic of the service.

The army is no place to argue, and I went. I suppose what he meant was, "As we are both more
or less in exile, take my blessing and be off," but he may merely have meant to be inconsequent,
for inconsequence is the wit of schoolboys and soldiers. I went up the hill with my friend.

The long twilight was still broad over the hill and the old houses of Bar-le-Duc, as we climbed.
It was night by the clock, but one could have seen to read. We were tired, and talked of nothing
in particular, but such things as we said were full of the old refrain of conscripts: "Dog
of a trade," "When shall we be out of it?" Even as we spoke there was pride in our breasts
at the noise of trumpets in the mist below along the river and the Eighth making its presence
known, and our uniforms and our swords.

We stopped at last before a little square house with "The Lilacs" painted on its gate; there
was a parched little lawn, a little fountain, a tripod supporting a globular mirror, and we
went in.

Matthieu's uncle met us; he was in a cotton suit walking about among his flowers and enjoying
the evening. He was a man of about fifty, short, strong, brown, and abrupt. Though it was already
evening and one could see little, we knew well enough that his eyes were steady and dark. For
he had the attitude and carriage of those men who invigorate France. His self-confidence was
evident in his sturdy legs and his arms akimbo, his vulgarity in his gesture, his narrowness
in his forward and peering look, his indomitable energy in every movement of his body. It did
not surprise me to learn in his later conversation that he was a Republican. He spoke at once
to us both, saying in a kind of grumbling shout:

"Well, gunners!"

Then he spoke roughly to his nephew, telling him we were late: to me a little too politely
saying he put no blame on me, but only on his scapegrace of a nephew. I said that our lateness
was due to having to find the Sergeant. He answered:

"One must always put the blame on some one else," which was rank bad manners.

He led the way into the house. The dining-room gave on to a veranda, and beyond this was another
little lawn with trees. In the dark a few insects chirped, and, as the evening was warmish,
one smelt the flowers. The windows had been left open. Everything was clean, neat, and bare.
On the walls were two excellent old prints, a badly drawn certificate of membership in some
society or other, a still worse portrait of a local worthy, and a water-colour painted, I suppose,
by his daughter.

He introduced me to his wife, a hard-featured woman, with thin hair, full of duty, busy and
precise--fresh from the kitchen. We unhooked our swords with the conventional clatter, and
sat down to the meal.

I will confess that as we ate those excellent dishes (they were all excellent) and drank that
ordinary wine, I seemed to be living in a book rather than among living men. Here was I, a
young English boy, thrust by accident into the French army. Fairly acquainted with its language,
though I spoke it with an accent; taken (of course) by my host for a pure Englishman, though
half my blood was French. Here was I sitting at his side and watching things, and learning--as
for him, men like him, of whom England has some few left in forgotten villages, and who are,
when they can be found, the strength of a State, they never bother about learning anything
far removed from their realities.

I noticed the one servant going in and out rapidly, bullied a good deal by her master, deft
but nervous. I noticed how everything was solid and good: the chairs, table, clock, clothes--and
especially the cooking. I saw his local newspaper neatly folded on the mantelpiece. I saw the
pet dog of his retirement crouching at his side, and I heard the chance sayings he threw to
his nephew, the maxims granted to youth long ago. I wondered how much that nephew would inherit.
I guessed about ten thousand pounds at the least, and twenty at the most. I was almost inclined
to cross myself at the thought of such a lot of money.

My host grew more genial: he asked me questions on England. His wife also was interested in
that country. They both knew more about it than their class in England knows about France:
and this astonished me, for, in the gentry, English gentlemen know more about France than French
gentlemen know about England.

He asked me if agriculture were still in a bad way; why we had not more of the people at the
Universities; why we allowed only lords into our Parliament, and whether there were more French
commercial travellers in England than English commercial travellers in France. In all these
points I admitted, supplemented, and corrected, and probably distorted his impressions.

He asked me if English gunners were good. I said I did not know, but I thought so. He replied
that the English drivers had a high reputation in his country--his brother (the brother of
an ironmonger) was a Captain of the Horse Artillery, and had told him so. And this he said
to me, who wore a French uniform, but whose heart was away up in Arun Valley, in my own woods,
and at rest and alone.

In the last hour when we had to be getting back a certain tenderness came into his somewhat
mercenary look. He devoted himself more to his nephew; he took him aside, and, with some ceremony,
gave him money. He offered us cigars. We took one each. His round French face became all wrinkles,
like a cracked plate. He said:

"Bah! Take them by the pocketful! We know what life is in the regiment," and he crammed half
a dozen each into the pocket of our tunics. But when he said "We know what the life is," he
lied. For he had only been a "mobile" in '70. He had voted, but never suffered, the conscription.

So we said good night to this man, our host, who had so regaled us. I may be wrong, but I fancy
he was an anti-clerical. He was a hard man, just, eager, and attentive, narrow, as I have said,
and unconsciously (as I have also said) building up the nation.

There was the Ironmonger of Bar-le-Duc; and there are hundreds of thousands of the same kind.

A FORCE IN GAUL

There is a force in Gaul which is of prime consequence to all Europe. It has canalized European
religion, fixed European law, and latterly launched a renewed political ideal. It is very vigorous
to-day.

It was this force which made the massacres of September, which overthrew Robespierre, which
elected Napoleon. In a more concentrated form, it was this force which combined into so puissant
a whole the separate men--not men of genius--who formed the Committee of Public Safety. It
is this force which made the Commune, so that to this day no individual can quite tell you
what the Commune was driving at. And it is this force which at the present moment so grievously
misunderstands and overestimates the strength of the armies which are the rivals of the French;
indeed, in that connexion it might truly be said that the peace of Europe is preserved much
more by the German knowledge of what the French army is, even than by French ignorance of what
the German army is.

I say the disadvantages of this force or quality in a commonwealth are apparent, for the weakness
and disadvantages of something extraneous to ourselves are never difficult to grasp. What is
of more moment for us is to understand, with whatever difficulty, the strength which such a
quality conveys. Not to have understood that strength, nay, not to have appreciated the existence
of the force of which I speak, has made nearly all the English histories of France worthless.
French turbulence is represented in them as anarchy, and the whole of the great story which
has been the central pivot of Western Europe appears as an incongruous series of misfortunes.
Even Carlyle, with his astonishing grasp of men and his power of rapid integration from a few
details (for he read hardly anything of his subject), never comprehended this force. He could
understand a master ordering about a lot of servants; indeed, he would have liked to have been
a servant himself, and was one to the best of his ability; but he could not understand self-organization
from below. Yet upon the existence of that power depends the whole business of the Revolution.
Its strength, then, (and principal advantage), lies in the fact that it makes democracy possible
at critical moments, even in a large community.

There is no one, or hardly any one, so wicked or so stupid as to deny the democratic ideal.
There is no one, or hardly any one, so perverted that, were he the member of a small and simple
community, he would be content to forgo his natural right to be a full member thereof. There
is no one, or hardly any one, who would not feel his exclusion from such rights, among men
of his own blood, to be intolerable. But while every one admits the democratic ideal, most
men who think and nearly all the wiser of those who think, perceive its one great obstacle
to lie in the contrast between the idea and the action where the obstacle of complexity--whether
due to varied interests, to separate origins, or even to mere numbers--is present.

The psychology of the multitude is not the psychology of the individual. Ask every man in West
Sussex separately whether he would have bread made artificially dearer by Act of Parliament,
and you will get an overwhelming majority against such economic action on the part of the State.
Treat them collectively, and they will elect--I bargain they will elect for years to come--men
pledged to such an action. Or again, look at a crowd when it roars down a street in anger--the
sight is unfortunately only too rare to-day--you have the impression of a beast majestic in
its courage, terrible in its ferocity, but with something evil about its cruelty and determination.
Yet if you stop and consider the face of one of its members straggling on one of its outer
edges, you will probably see the bewildered face of a poor, uncertain, weak-mouthed man whose
eyes are roving from one object to another, and who appears all the weaker because he is under
the influence of this collective domination. Or again, consider the jokes which make a great
public assembly honestly shake with laughter, and imagine those jokes attempted in a private
room! Our tricky politicians know well this difference between the psychologies of the individual
and of the multitude. The cleverest of them often suffer in reputation precisely because they
know what hopeless arguments and what still more hopeless jests will move collectivities, the
individual units of which would never have listened to such humour or to such reasoning.

The larger the community with which one is dealing, the truer this is; so that, when it comes
to many millions spread upon a large territory, one may well despair of any machinery which
shall give expression to that very real thing which Rousseau called the General Will.

In the presence of such a difficulty most men who are concerned both for the good of their
country and for the general order of society incline, especially as they grow older, to one,
or other of the old traditional organic methods by which a State may be expressed and controlled.
They incline to an oligarchy such as is here in England where a small group of families, intermarried
one with the other, dining together perpetually and perpetually guests in each other's houses,
are by a tacit agreement with the populace permitted to direct a nation. Or they incline to
the old-fashioned and very stable device of a despotic bureaucracy such as manages to keep
Prussia upright, and did until recently support the expansion of Russia.

The evils of such a compromise with a political idea are evident enough. The oligarchy will
be luxurious and corporately corrupt, and individually somewhat despicable, with a sort of
softness about it in morals and in military affairs. The despot or the bureaucracy will be
individually corrupt, especially in the lower branches of the system, and hatefully unfeeling.

"But," (says your thinker, especially as he advances in age) "man is so made that he cannot
otherwise be collectively governed. He cannot collectively be the master, or at any rate permanently
the master of his collective destiny, whatever power his reason and free will give him over
his individual fate. The nation" (says he), "especially the large nation, certainly has a Will,
but it cannot directly express that Will. And if it attempts to do so, whatever machinery it
chooses--even the referendum--will but create a gross mechanical parody of that subtle organic
thing, the National soul. The oligarchy or the bureaucracy" (he will maintain, and usually
maintain justly) "inherit, convey, and maintain the national spirit more truly than would an
attempted democratic system."

General history, even the general history of Western Europe, is upon the whole on the side
of such a criticism. Andorra is a perfect democracy, and has been a perfect democracy for at
least a thousand years, perhaps since first men inhabited that isolated valley. But there is
no great State which has maintained even for three generations a democratic system undisturbed.

Now it is peculiar to the French among the great and independent nations, that they are capable,
by some freak in their development, of rapid communal self-expression. It is, I repeat, only
in crises that this power appears. But such as it is, it plays a part much more real and much
more expressive of the collective will than does the more ordinary organization of other peoples.

Those who attacked the Tuileries upon the 10th of August acted in a manner entirely spontaneous,
and succeeded. The arrest of the Royal Family at Varennes was not the action of one individual
or of two; it was not Drouet nor was it the Saulce family. It was a great number of individuals
(the King had been recognized all along the journey), each thinking the same thing under the
tension of a particular episode, each vaguely tending to one kind of action and tending with
increasing energy towards that action, and all combining, as it were, upon that culminating
point in the long journey which was reached at the archway of the little town in Argonne.

To have expressed and portrayed this common national power has been the saving of the principal
French historians, notably of Michelet. It has furnished them with the key by which alone the
history of their country could be made plain. Nothing is easier than to ridicule or deny so
mystical a thing. Taine, by temperament intensely anti-national, ridiculed it as he ridiculed
the mysteries of the Faith; but with this consequence, that his denial made it impossible for
him to write the history of his country, and compelled him throughout his work, but especially
in his history of the Revolution, to perpetual, and at last to somewhat crude, forms of falsehood.

Not to recognize this National force has, again, led men into another error: they will have
it that the great common actions of Frenchmen are due to some occult force or to a master.
They will explain the Crusades by the cunning organization of the Papacy; the French Revolution
by the cunning organization of the Masonic lodges; the Napoleonic episode by the individual
cunning and plan of Bonaparte. Such explanations are puerile.

The blow of 1870 was perhaps the most severe which any modern nation has endured. By some accident
it did not terminate the activity of the French nation. The Southern States of America remain
under the effect of the Civil War. All that is not Prussian in Germany remains prostrate--
especially in ideas--under the effect of the Prussian victory over it. The French but barely
escaped a similarly permanent dissolution of national character: but they did escape it; and
the national mark, the power of spontaneous and collective action, after a few years' check,
began to emerge.

Upon two occasions an attempt was made towards such action. The first was in the time of Boulanger,
the second during the Dreyfus business. In both cases the nation instinctively saw, or rather
felt, its enemy. In both there was a moment when the cosmopolitan financier stood in physical
peril of his life. Neither, however, matured; in neither did the people finally move.

Latterly several partial risings have marked French life. Why none of them should have culminated
I will consider in a moment. Meanwhile, the foreign observer will do well to note the character
of these movements, abortive though they were. It is like standing upon the edge of a crater
and watching the heave and swell of the vast energies below. There may have been no actual
eruption for some time, but the activities of the volcano and its nature are certain to you
as you gaze. The few days that passed two years ago in Herault are an example.

No one who is concerned for the immediate future of Europe should neglect the omen: half a
million men, with leaders chosen rapidly by themselves, converging without disaster, with ample
commissariat, with precision and rapidity upon one spot: a common action decided upon, and
that action most calculated to defeat the enemy; decided upon by men of no exceptional power,
mere mouthpieces of this vast concourse: similar and exactly parallel decisions over the whole
countryside from the great towns to the tiny mountain villages. It is the spirit of a swarm
of bees. One incident in the affair was the most characteristic of it all: fearing they would
be ordered to fire on men of their own district the private soldiers and corporals of the 17th
of the Line mutinied. So far so good: mutinies are common in all actively military states--the
exceptional thing was what followed. The men organized themselves without a single officer
or non-commissioned officer, equipped themselves for a full day's march to the capital of the
province, achieved it in good order, and took quarters in the town. All that exact movement
was spontaneous. It explains the Marshals of the Empire. These were sent off as a punishment
to the edge of the African desert; the mutiny seemed to the moneydealers a proof of military
defeat. They erred: these young men, some of them of but six months' training, none of them
of much more than two years, not one of them over twenty-five years of age, were a precise
symbol of the power which made the Revolution and its victims. The reappearance of that power
in our tranquil modern affairs seems to me of capital importance.

One should end by asking one's self, "Will these unfinished movements breed a finished movement
at last? Will Gaul move to some final purpose in our time, and if so, against what, with what
an object and in what a manner?"

Prophecy is vain, but it is entertaining, and I will prophesy that Gaul will move in our time,
and that the movement will be directed against the pestilent humbug of the parliamentary system.

For forty years this force in the nation of which I speak, though so frequently stirred, has
not achieved its purpose. But in nearly every case, directly or indirectly, the thing against
which it moved was the Parliament. It would be too lengthy a matter to discuss here why the
representative system has sunk to be what it is in modern Europe. It was the glory of the Middle
Ages, it was a great vital institution of Christendom, sprung from the monastic institution
that preceded it, a true and living power first in Spain, where Christendom was at its most
acute activity in the struggle against Asia, then in the north-west, in England and in France.
And indeed, in one form or another, throughout all the old limits of the Empire. It died, its
fossil was preserved in one or two small and obscure communities, its ancient rules and form
were captured by the English squires and merchants, and it was maintained, a curious but vigorous
survival, in this country. When the Revolution in 1789 began the revival of democracy in the
great nations the old representative scheme of the French, a very perfect one, was artificially
resurrected, based upon the old doctrine of universal suffrage and upon a direct mandate. It
was logical, it ought to have worked, but in barely a hundred years it has failed.

There is an instructive little anecdote upon the occupation of Rome in 1870.

When the French garrison was withdrawn and the Northern Italians had occupied the city, representative
machinery was set to work, nominally to discover whether the change in Government were popular
or no. A tiny handful of votes was recorded in the negative, let us say forty-three.

Later, in the early winter of that same year, a great festival of the Church was celebrated
in the Basilica of St. Peter and at the tombs of the Apostles. The huge church was crowded,
many were even pressed outside the doors. When the ceremony was over the dense mass that streamed
out into the darkness took up the cry, the irony of which filled the night air of the Trastevere
and its slums of sovereign citizens. The cry was this:

"We are the Forty-three!"

It is an anecdote that applies continually to the modern representative system in every country
which has the misfortune to support it. No one needs to be reminded of such a truth. We know
in England how the one strong feeling in the elections of 1906 was the desire to get at the
South African Jews and sweep away their Chinese labour from under them.

The politicians and the party hacks put into power by that popular determination went straight
to the South African Jews, hat in hand, asked them what was their good pleasure in the matter,
and framed a scheme in connivance with them, by which no vengeance should be taken and not
a penny of theirs should be imperilled.

In modern France the chances of escape from the parliamentary game, tawdry at its best, at
its worst a social peril, are much greater than in this country. The names and forms of the
thing are not of ancient institution. There is therefore no opportunity for bamboozling people
with a sham continuity, or of mixing up the interests of the party hacks with the instinct
of patriotism. Moreover, in modern France the parliamentary system happened to come up vitally
against the domestic habits of the people earlier and more violently than it has yet done in
this country. The little gang which had captured the machine was violently anti-Christian;
it proceeded step by step to the destruction of the Church, until at the end of 1905 the crisis
had taken this form. The Church was disestablished, its endowments were cancelled, the housing
of its hierarchy, its churches and its cathedrals and their furniture were, further, to be
taken from it unless it adopted a Presbyterian form of government which could not but have
cankered it and which was the very negative of its spirit. So far nothing that the Parliament
had done really touched the lives of the people. Even the proposal to put the remaining goods
of the Church under Presbyterian management was a matter for the theologians and not for them.
Not one man in a hundred knew or cared about the business. The critical date approached (the
11th of December, if I remember rightly). Rome was to accept the anti-Catholic scheme of government
or all the churches were to be shut. Rome refused the scheme, and Parliament, faced for once
with a reality and brought under the necessity of really interfering with the popular life
or of capitulating, capitulated.

What has that example to do, you may ask, with that movement in the south of France, which
is the text of these pages? The answer is as follows:

In the south of France the one main thing actually touching the lives of the people, after
their religion (which the complete breakdown of the anti-clerical threat had secured), was
the sale of their principal manufacture. This sale was rendered difficult from a number of
reasons, one of which, perhaps not the chief, but the most apparent and the most easily remediable,
was the adulteration and fraud existing in the trade. Such adulteration and fraud are common
to all the trade of our own time. It was winked at by the gang in power in France, just as
similar dirty work is winked at by the gang in power in every other parliamentary country.
When the peasants who had suffered so severely by this commercial corruption of our time asked
that it should be put a stop to, the old reply, which has done duty half a million times in
every case of corruption in France, England, or America for a generation, was given to them:
"If you desire a policy to be effected, elect men who will effect it." As a fact, these four
departments had elected a group of men, of whom Laferre, the Grand Master of the Freemasons,
is a good type, with his absorbing interest in the destruction of Christianity, and his ignorance
and ineptitude in any other field than that of theology.

The peasants replied to this sophistry, which had done duty so often and had been successful
so often in their case as in others, by calling upon their Deputies to resign. Laferre neglected
to do so. He was too greatly occupied with his opportunity. He went down to "address his constituents."
They chased him for miles. And in that exhilarating episode it was apparent that the peasants
of the Aude had discovered in their simple fashion both where the representative system was
at fault and by what methods it may be remedied.

ON BRIDGES

Stand on the side of a stream and consider two things: the imbecility of your private nature
and the genius of your common kind.

For you cannot cross the stream, you--Individual you; but Man (from whence you come) has found
out an art for crossing it. This art is the building of bridges. And hence man in the general
may properly be called Pontifex, or "The Bridge Builder"; and his symbolic summits of office
will carry some such title.

Here I will confess (Individual) that I am tempted to leave you by the side of the stream,
to swim it if you can, to drown if you can't, or to go back home and be eaten out with your
desire for the ulterior shore, while I digress upon that word Pontifex, which, note you, is
not only a name over a shop as "Henry Pontifex, Italian Warehouseman," or "Pontifex Brothers,
Barbers," but a true key-word breeding ideas and making one consider the greatness of man,
or rather the greatness of what made him.

For man builds bridges over streams, and he has built bridges more or less stable between mind
and mind (a difficult art!), having designed letters for that purpose, which are his instrument;
and man builds by prayer a bridge between himself and God; man also builds bridges which unite
him with Beauty all about.

Thus he paints and draws and makes statues, and builds for beauty as well as for shelter from
the weather. And man builds bridges between knowledge and knowledge, co-ordinating one thing
that he knows with another thing that he knows, and putting a bridge from each to each. And
man is for ever building--but he has never yet completed, nor ever will--that bridge they call
philosophy, which is to explain himself in relation to that whence he came. I say, when his
skeleton is put in the Museum properly labelled, it shall be labelled not Homo Sapiens, but
Homo Pontifex; hence also the anthem, or rather the choral response, "Pontificem habemus,"
which is sung so nobly by pontifical great choirs, when pontifications are pontificated, as
behooves the court of a Pontiff.

Nevertheless (Individual) I will not leave you there, for I have pity on you, and I will explain
to you the nature of bridges. By a bridge was man's first worry overcome. For note you, there
is no worry so considerable as to wail by impassable streams (as Swinburne has it). It is the
proper occupation of the less fortunate dead.

ON BRIDGES

Believe me, without bridges the world would be very different to you. You take them for granted,
you lollop along the road, you cross a bridge. You may be so ungrateful as to forget all about
it, but it is an awful thing!

A bridge is a violation of the will of nature and a challenge. "You desired me not to cross,"
says man to the River God, "but I will." And he does so: not easily. The god had never objected
to him that he should swim and wet himself. Nay, when he was swimming the god could drown him
at will, but to bridge the stream, nay, to insult it, to leap over it, that was man all over;
in a way he knows that the earthy gods are less than himself and that all that he dreads is
his inferior, for only that which he reveres and loves can properly claim his allegiance. Nor
does he in the long run pay that allegiance save to holiness, or in a lesser way to valour
and to worth.

Man cannot build bridges everywhere. They are not multitudinous as are his roads, nor universal
as are his pastures and his tillage. He builds from time to time in one rare place and another,
and the bridge always remains a sacred thing. Moreover, the bridge is always in peril. The
little bridge at Paris which carried the Roman road to the island was swept away continually;
and the bridge of Staines that carried the Roman road from the great port to London was utterly
destroyed.

Bridges have always lived with fear in their hearts; and if you think this is only true of
old bridges (Individual), have you forgotten the Tay Bridge with the train upon it? Or the
bridge that they were building over the St. Lawrence some little time ago, or the bridge across
the Loire where those peasants went to their death on a Sunday only a few months since? Carefully
consider these things and remember that the building and the sustaining of a bridge is always
a wonderful and therefore a perilous thing.

No bridges more testify to the soul of man than the bridges that leap in one arch from height
to height over the gorge of a torrent. Many of these are called the Devil's Bridges with good
reason, for they suggest art beyond man's power, and there are two to be crossed and wondered
at, one in Wales in the mountains, and another in Switzerland, also in the mountains. There
is a third in the mountains at the gate of the Sahara, of the same sort, jumping from rock
to rock. But it is not called the Devil's Bridge. It is called with Semitic simplicity "El
Kantara," and that is the name the Arabs gave to the old bridges, to the lordly bridges of
the Romans, wherever they came across them, for the Arabs were as incapable of making bridges
as they were of doing anything else except singing love songs and riding about on horses. "Alcantara"
is a name all over Spain, and it is in the heart of the capital of Portugal, and it is fixed
in the wilds of Estremadura. You get it outside Constantine also where the bridge spans the
gulf. Never did an Arab see bridges but he wondered.

Our people also, though they were not of the sort to stand with their mouths open in front
of bridges or anything else, felt the mystery of these things. And they put chapels in the
middle of them, as you may see at Bale, and at Bradford-upon-Avon, and especially was there
one upon old London Bridge, which was dedicated to St. Thomas a Becket, and was very large.
And speaking of old London Bridge, every one in London should revere bridges, for a great number
of reasons.

In the first place London never would have been London but for London Bridge.

In the second place, bridges enable the people of London to visit the south of the river, which
is full of pleasing and extraordinary sights, and in which may be seen, visibly present to
the eye, Democracy. If any one doubts this let him take the voyage.

Then again, but for bridges Londoners could not see the river except from the Embankment, which
is an empty sort of place, or from the windows of hotels. Bridges also permit railways from
the south to enter London. If this seems to you a commonplace, visit New York or for ever after
hold your peace.

All things have been degraded in our time and have also been multiplied, which is perhaps a
condition of degradation; and your simple thing, your bridge, has suffered with the rest. Men
have invented all manner of bridges: tubular bridges, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges,
swing bridges, pontoon bridges, and the bridge called the Russian Bridge, which is intolerable;
but they have not been able to do with the bridge what they have done with some other things:
they have not been able to destroy it; it is still a bridge, still perilous, and still a triumph.
The bridge still remains the thing which may go at any moment and yet the thing which, when
it remains, remains our oldest monument. There is a bridge over the Euphrates--I forget whether
it goes all the way across--which the Romans built. And the oldest thing in the way of bridges
in the town of Paris, a thing three hundred years old, was the bridge that stood the late floods
best. The bridge will remain a symbol in spite of the engineers.

Look how differently men have treated bridges according to the passing mood of civilization.
Once they thought it reasonable to tax people who crossed bridges. Now they think it unreasonable.
Yet the one course was as reasonable as the other. Once they built houses on bridges, clearly
perceiving that there was lack of room for houses, and that there was a housing problem, and
that the bridges gave a splendid chance. Now no one dares to build a house upon a bridge, and
the one proceeding is as reasonable as the other.

The time has come to talk at random about bridges.

The ugliest bridge in the world runs from Lambeth to the Horseferry Road, and takes the place
of the old British trackway which here crossed the Thames. About the middle of it, if you will
grope in the mud, you may or may not find the great Seal of England which James II there cast
into the flood. If it was fished up again, why then it is not there. The most beautiful bridge
in London is Waterloo Bridge; the most historic is London Bridge; and far the most useful Westminster
Bridge. The most famous bridge in Italy to tourists is the old bridge at Florence, and the
best known from pictures the Bridge of Sighs in Venice. FOOTNOTES:

[A] The accomplished author of 'Intuitive Morals,' in an article in
Fraser's Magazine, entitled 'A Day at the Dead Sea,' takes occasion
to render a high tribute to the courtesy of our countrymen.

She writes:

'If at any time I needed to find a gentleman who should aid me in any
little difficulties of travel, or show me a kindness, with that consideration
for a woman, as a woman, which is the true tone of manly courtesy, then
I should desire to find a North American gentleman.... They are simply the
most kind and courteous of any people.'

It is with heartfelt pleasure that I return this compliment, in this
account of my winter journey, which, but for the constant and delicate
kindness of her countrymen, would have proved wellnigh insupportable.

DIARY OF FRANCES KRASINSKA;

OR, LIFE IN POLAND DURING THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

January 3d.

Yesterday,
amid the drinking of toasts, the peals of joyous music, and the volleys
of musketry from our dragoons in honor of the investiture of the Duke of
Courland, the chamberlain despatched to Warsaw returned, with letters
announcing that the ceremony had been delayed, on account of the king's
illness: it has been postponed until the eighth of January.

Our little Matthias says it is a bad omen, and that as the ducal
crown eludes his grasp, so will a royal one. I felt quite uneasy,...
but then there came several visitors, and they distracted my thoughts.
After dinner came Madame Dembinska, wife of the king's cupbearer,
with her sons and daughters; the pantler Jordan, with his wife and
son, and M. Swidinski, Palatine of Braclaw, with his nephew, the Abbé
Vincent.

The latter gentleman has been several times at Maleszow; he is a
very pious man; my parents love and esteem him very much.

Although he is quite young, we kiss his hands as a minister of God.

Barbara has completely won his good opinion; he has given her a rosary,
and the 'Christian's Daily Manual.' He was seated next to her at supper, and
even addressed his conversation to her twice. This is not at all astonishing,
for Barbara is so good; besides, she is the eldest, and hence entitled
to more politeness than the rest of us.

Friday, January 5th.

The palatine and his nephew are still with us, and we are daily expecting
other guests. The eldest of the palatine's sons is Starost of Radom,
and the younger is a colonel in the king's army. The palatine, who has been
a widower several years, has also two daughters, one married to Granowski,
Palatine of Rawa, and the other recently wedded to Lauckorouski, Castellan
of Polaniec.

I am very curious to see the palatine's sons; they were educated at Luneville,
in France; they must have an air and manner different from those of our
young Poles.

The good King Stanislaus, though he dwells in a foreign land, is always
seeking to be useful to his compatriots; several young Polish gentlemen
are maintained and educated by him at Luneville. They receive the best instruction,
and the sons of our first families strive for the honor, using the
pretext of relationship, however distant, to obtain their desires.

Indeed, they are quite right, for when one can say of a young man,
He has studied at Luneville, and has been to Paris, he has certainly
an excellent foundation for the beginning of his career. Every one feels
quite sure that his manners will be irreproachable, that he can speak
French, and dance the minuet and quadrilles.

All the gentlemen who have been in France are very successful in
society, and very pleasing to ladies.... Really, I am exceedingly
curious to see the palatine's two sons!

Saturday, January 6th.

They finally arrived yesterday afternoon, and do not in the least correspond
to the idea I had formed of them, the starost less than his brother.

I thought I should see a young, lively, and agreeable man, in short, a young
man like Prince Cherry, in Madame de Beaumont's tales, who would
speak French all the time; but I was quite mistaken.

The starost is no longer young; he is thirty years
old, and quite stout; he is not fond of dancing, and never speaks a single
word of French. Every now and then he puts in a word or two of Latin,
like my father.

I am much better pleased with the colonel; he wears a uniform,
is young, and says at least a few words in French.

To-day is Twelfth day, and Michael Chronowski will be emancipated before
nightfall. They are baking a great cake in the kitchen, with a bean
in it. Who will be king? Heavens, if I were to be queen! I should
wear a crown on my head during the whole evening, and should bear absolute
sway in the castle.... There would be plenty of dancing then, I'll
answer for it!... But whether I command it or not, there must be dancing,
I am sure, for a crowd of visitors has been pouring in ever since
morning; the servants are grumbling, and the keeper of the table service
is quite provoked.

     

When he sees all the carriages standing on the square facing the church of Piotrkowicé, he says there
is no end to work for him. As for me, I jump with joy; and so it is in
this world, where some are happy from the very cause which makes the
torment of others.

Sunday, January 7th.

How many people! The castle is so gay and lively! We amused ourselves finely.
I was not queen, for Barbara got the bean, and when she saw it in her portion
of the cake, she blushed to her very eyes. Madame, who was seated
near her, announced the fact, and all the guests and attendants testified
their satisfaction by loud shouts.

Our little Matthias laughed and said: She who has the bean will marry
Mr. Michael (kto dostal migdala dostanie Michala) a Polish proverb
always repeated upon such occasions.

It is also a common saying that when a young girl has it, she will be married before the end of the carnival.
God grant that this prophecy may be verified, for then we shall have a
wedding, and abundance of dancing!

I cannot become accustomed to the starost; his gravity does not please
me; he would dance nothing yesterday but Polish dances. He never mentions
Paris or Luneville, and takes no notice of young people; he never
addresses to us any of those little gallantries which are the small
change of good society; he talks only to our parents, plays cards,
and reads the newspapers.

I still continue to think that his brother is worth more than he; at least he is more sociable, he
talks about Paris and Luneville, and is not so old.

But I am forgetting to relate the ceremonies accompanying Michael
Chronowski's emancipation; I was quite diverted with them.

When all the company had assembled in the great hall, my father took
his place upon the highest seat; the folding doors were thrown open,
and the steward, accompanied by several young courtiers, introduced
the candidate for emancipation, very richly dressed in a full suit
of new clothes.

He knelt before my father, who touched his cheek lightly in sign of good will; he then fastened a sword
at the young man's side, drank off a cup of wine, and presented him with a fine horse, accompanied by a groom,
also well mounted and equipped. The two horses were in the castle court.

My father asked Chronowski if he preferred trying his fortune in the
world or remaining in his service. Michael replied, timidly, that he was very
happy in the castle, but would like to see more of his country, and
ventured to ask a recommendation to Prince Lubomirski, Palatine of
Lublin, my father's brother-in-law.

His request was granted, my father slipped a roll of twenty gold ducats
into his hand, and invited him to remain with us during the carnival. Chronowski
seemed delighted with this proposition, and after paying his homage to my
father and mother, he kissed the hands of all the ladies present;
from that moment he was admitted into our society, and danced his
best in Mazurkas and Cracroviennes with Barbara.

He certainly dances very well, and my sister is equally graceful;
it was charming to see them!

Monday, January 8th.

The prophecy has been really fulfilled!

Barbara is to be married at the termination of the carnival, and
she is to marry Mr. Michael, for such is the name of the Starost
Swidzinski.

He asked Barbara's hand of my mother yesterday, and to-morrow they will
be betrothed! Poor Barbara was all in tears when she came to tell us the
great news; she shrinks from the idea of marriage, and it will be very
painful to her to leave her parents and her home.

But it would have been very unadvisable to have refused the match, when my father and mother assure
her that she will be very happy.

The starost seems to me a very pious, gentle, and upright man; his family is noble, ancient, and wealthy.
What more is necessary?

The three brothers Swidzinski, Alexander, Michael, and Anthony, died as
brave men should, near Chocim, under the command of the celebrated
Chodkiewicz.

This renown is a glory for those who still live. The starost's parents
have already conferred upon him the entire ownership of the castle
of Sulgostow.

He holds, besides, a considerable starosty under the king's appointment, and expects soon to be a castellan.
The Palatine Swidzinski and the Abbé Vincent have come to speed on
the marriage; they desire it exceedingly.

The palatine is charmed with Barbara, and I am sure he will love her dearly when he knows her better. The
wedding will take place at the castle of Maleszow on the 25th of February.
What fine balls and concerts we shall have! We will dance until we can
scarcely stand. Barbara will be: Your ladyship the starostine. I shall
be very sorry when I can no longer call her Barbara, dear Barbara.

I really feel quite remorseful at having described the starost so ill
in my journal; however, I do not think I have said anything very offensive. I
hope Barbara may be happy, and I think she will be, for she has always told me
she did not like very young people; the starost is reasonable, and
in my mother's opinion such men make the best husbands.

If my mother says so, it must be true; but for my part, I much prefer
gay and agreeable young men.

One is certainly entitled to one's own individual taste.

I have not forgotten that this is the day selected for the investiture
of the prince royal with the dukedom of Courland.

The king's health is reëstablished. Colonel Swidzinski speaks in the highest terms
of Prince Charles, whom he knows very well; but the palatine and his
eldest son do not wish him to succeed his father; they say that the
crown should be placed upon the head of a compatriot.

Wednesday, January 10th.

The betrothal took place yesterday.

Dinner was served at the usual hour. When Barbara entered the saloon my mother gave her a ball of silk
to untwist; she was red as fire, and her eyes were fixed on the ground. The starost did not leave her a moment.
Our little Matthias laughed with his malicious air, and gave vent to a thousand pleasantries, which diverted
every one exceedingly; all laughed aloud, and although I did not
understand the meaning of his jests, I laughed more than any one else.

After dinner, Barbara seated herself in the recess by the window;
the starost approached her, and said, aloud:

'Is it indeed true, mademoiselle, that you will oppose no obstacles to my happiness?'

Barbara replied, in a low and trembling voice:

'My parents' will has always been for me a sacred duty.'

Here the conversation ended.

When the chamberlains, attendants, and servants had retired, the palatine,
followed by the Abbé Vincent, conducted the starost to my parents,
who were seated on a sofa.

The palatine addressed my father in the following words:

'My heart is penetrated with the sincerest affection and most profound
esteem for the illustrious house of the Corvini Krasinski; I have
always ardently desired that the modest arms of Polkozie might be
united with the glorious and illustrious arms of Slepowron.

My happiness is at its height on beholding that your highnesses will
deign to grant me this great honor. Your daughter Barbara is a model of virtue
and grace; my son Michael is the glory and consolation of my life;
deign, then, to consent to the union of this young couple; deign
to confirm your promise on this very day.

Behold the ring which I received from my parents: I placed it upon
the hand of my betrothed, who is, alas! now no more, but who will
live eternally in my heart.

Permit, then, that during a similar ceremony my son may offer it to your
daughter, as a token of his affection and unalterable attachment.'

As he said these words, he placed the ring upon a silver dish held
by the Abbé Vincent. The abbé also made a discourse, but he put so much
Latin into it that I could not understand it.

My father replied to the two speeches in the following terms:

'I am most happy to confirm the promise I have made to you; I consent
to the marriage of my daughter with the starost; I give her my blessing,
and surrender to your honorable son all the rights I possess over
her.'

'I unite in the desires and intentions of my husband,' added
my mother.

'I give this ring to my daughter; it is the most precious jewel of our
house. My father, Stephen Humiecki, received it from the hand of
Augustus II, when he had fortunately succeeded in concluding the peace of
Carlowitz, by which the Turks restored the fortress of Kamieniec-Podolski
to the Poles. With this ring, which recalls so many dear remembrances,
was I myself betrothed; I give it to my eldest daughter, with my blessing,
and the hope that she may be as happy as I have been since my marriage.'

Thus
saying, she placed on the dish a ring set with superb diamonds, enclosing
a miniature of Augustus II.

'Barbara, come to me,' said my father; but the poor child was so confused,
so agitated and trembling, that she could scarcely walk; I cannot
understand how she moved even those few paces.

At last, however, she placed herself at my father's side, and the
Abbé Vincent gave them his benediction in Latin. One of the rings
was given to the starost, and the other to my sister; her betrothed
placed it upon the little finger of her left hand, called the heart
finger (serdeczny).

He then kissed Barbara's hand, and she in her turn presented her ring;
but she was so much overcome that she found great difficulty in encircling
the end of his finger with the glittering hoop. The starost again kissed her
hand, after which he threw himself at my parents' feet, and swore
to watch over the happiness of their beloved daughter.

The palatine kissed Barbara on the forehead, while the colonel and
the abbé made her a thousand compliments, each more beautiful than
the last.

       My father filled a great goblet with old Hungarian wine; he toasted the
new couple, and all who were present drank by turns out of the same
cup.

All this passed so solemnly and tenderly that I wept unrestrainedly.

'Do not weep, little Frances,' said Matthias, who was present at this
scene; 'a year hence it will be your turn.'

A year would be too soon;
but if it were in two years, I would not be sorry.

The whole Swidzinski family are so kind and attentive to Barbara!
and my parents for the first time kissed her face when she bade them
good night.

Since yesterday, every one in the castle treats her with the greatest
respect; all congratulate her, and she is overwhelmed with homage
and compliments. Each one would like to be employed in her establishment;
my father has given 1,000 Holland ducats to my mother, recommending
her to do all for her daughter that she may think necessary.

They consulted a long time over the trousseau that should be given
to her.

To-morrow Miss Zawistowska will go to Warsaw with the commissary,
to make purchases.

This Miss Zawistowska is a very respectable person; she is about thirty,
and has lived in the castle ever since she was a child. There are
in the storeroom four large chests filled with silver, destined
for our use.

My father had Barbara's brought to him and examined it carefully; this chest will be sent to Warsaw,
that the silver may be cleaned.

The palatine and the starost leave us to-morrow.

They go to Sulgostow, where they will make all the preparations necessary
for Barbara's reception.

My father has had the
customary letters written to announce the marriage, and will send them
by the chamberlains to the various parts of Poland. The most distinguished
among our chamberlains, and an equerry richly equipped, will depart
in two days to carry letters to the king, the princes his sons, the
primate, and the principal senators.

My father
announces the marriage, and begs them to give it their benediction; if
he does not exactly invite them, he gives them to understand that
he would feel highly honored by their presence.

Ah! if one of the princes were
to come--the Duke of Courland, for example--what a lustre it would
throw upon the wedding!

But they will merely send their representatives, as is usual upon
such occasions.

The castle is in a state of constant activity; great preparations are
making for the approaching festivities. The starost has displayed
an unexampled generosity; he has made us all the most beautiful presents.

He has given me a turquoise pin; Sophia has received a ruby cross; Mary,
a Venetian chain, and even my parents have condescended to accept
gifts from him.

My father has a silver-gilt goblet, admirably chased; and my mother, a beautiful
box made of mother-of-pearl mounted in gold. Even madame has not been forgotten,
for she found a blonde mantle on her bed this morning; she praises
the generosity of the Polish lords to the skies. But this is the only
virtue she concedes to our nation, so that I cannot love madame;
her injustice toward my countrymen repels me.

We had yesterday a grand state supper; the orchestra played unceasingly,
toasts were drunk in honor of the happy couple, and the dragoons
fired numberless volleys of musketry; their captain gave them as their
watchword for the day, 'Michael and Barbara.'

Barbara begins to take courage; she only blushes now when she looks
at her ring; she hides it as much as she can; but it is of no use,
for every one sees it, and the brilliants sparkle like stars.

This morning all the court went hunting, in accordance with the old
custom, which renders this action of good omen to the wedded pair.

Formerly before they set out, the betrothed was obliged to display her ankle to the hunters. God
be praised that this custom no longer exists, for I am sure Barbara would
have died of shame. But our little Matthias insisted upon the performance
of this ceremony, saying that if it were omitted the chase would
certainly be unfortunate.

For
once his prophecy failed; they killed a wild boar, two bucks, an elk, and
many hares.

The starost killed the wild boar with his own hand, and laid it
at Barbara's feet.

My father had all the horses brought out of his stables for the hunters
to ride upon.

Among
them was one of exceeding beauty, but so unmanageable that the best
groom had never yet been able to mount him. The starost was confident he could
control him, and, notwithstanding the terror of the spectators, he
leaped on his back and guided him three times round the castle of Maleszow.
It was truly a noble sight. Barbara was very pale; she trembled for
her betrothed; but when she saw him so firmly seated on the fiery
animal, the bright color returned to her cheek.

From that moment I felt reconciled to the starost. In truth,
he is not so bad; he looks well on horseback, and possesses that
dauntless courage so dear to the heart of a woman.

I must then forgive his ignorance of the minuet and quadrilles. My
father gave the starost the horse he had so well merited, completely
caparisoned, and with a groom to take care of him.

Sunday, January 20th.

I have neglected my journal during the past week; we have been so busy
with the preparations for the marriage; there are such crowds of people
at the castle; every one is occupied doing the honors; both mornings and
afternoons are passed in company.

Our
studies are laid aside--the chronology, the French grammar, and even Madame de
Beaumont lie quiet and undisturbed in their places.

We are busily engaged with our needles, because each one of us desires to make
a present to Barbara. I am embroidering a morning dress, which will
be charming; I even steal some hours from my sleep that I may the
sooner finish it.

Mary is embroidering a straw-colored muslin, with shaded silks mingled with gold thread, and Sophia is making
a lovely toilet cover.

My mother is entirely occupied with the trousseau; she opens her wardrobes
and chests, bringing out linen, cloth, furs, curtains, and tapestry.
I help her as well as I can; she is sometimes good enough to ask my
opinion; she is so scrupulous, so much afraid of not dividing our
shares equally. She is so particular, that she even sends for the
chaplain to judge of the exactness of the division. One turns a narrow
corner between houses very old and very tall, and then quite close, no longer a vision, but
a thing to be touched, you see--to use the word again--the "surprising" thing. You see something
bigger than you thought possible.

Great heavens, what a church!

Where have I heard a church called "the House of God"? I think it was in Westmorland near an
inn called "The Nag's Head"--or perhaps "The Nag's Head" is in Cumberland--no matter, I did
once hear a church so called. But this church has a right to the name. It is a gathering-up
of all that men could do. It has fifty roofs, it has a gigantic signal tower, it has blank
walls like precipices, and round arch after round arch, and architrave after architrave. It
is like a good and settled epic; or, better still, it is like the life of a healthy and adventurous
man who, having accomplished all his journeys and taken the Fleece of Gold, comes home to tell
his stories at evening, and to pass among his own people the years that are left to him of
his age. It has experience and growth and intensity of knowledge, all caught up into one unity;
it conquers the hill upon which it stands. I drew one window and then another, and then before
I had finished that a cornice, and then before I had finished that a porch, for it was evening
when I saw it, and I had not many hours.

Music, they say, does something to the soul, filling it full of unsatisfied but transcendent
desires, and making it guess, in glimpses that mix and fail, the soul's ultimate reward or
destiny. Here, in Perigeux of the Perigord, where men hunt truffles with hounds, stone set
in a certain order does what music is said to do. For in the sight of this standing miracle
I could believe and confess, and doubt and fear, and control, all in one.

Here is, living and continuous, the Empire in its majority and its determination to be eternal.
The people of the Perigord, the truffle-hunting people, need never seek civilization nor fear
its death, for they have its symbol, and a sacrament, as it were, to promise them that the
arteries of the life of Europe can never be severed. The arches and the entablatures of this
solemn thing are alive.

It was built some say nine, some say eight hundred years ago; its apse was built yesterday,
but the whole of it is outside time.

In human life, which goes with a short rush and then a lull, like the wind among trees before
rains, great moments are remembered; they comfort us and they help us to laugh at decay. I
am very glad that I once saw this church in Perigeux of the Perigord.

When I die I should like to be buried in my own land, but I should take it as a favour from
the Bishop, who is master of this place, if he would come and give my coffin an absolution,
and bring with him the cloth and the silver cross, and if he would carry in his hand (as some
of the statues have) a little model of St. Front, the church which I have seen and which renewed
my faith.

THE POSITION

There is a place where the valley of the Allier escapes from the central mountains of France
and broadens out into a fertile plain.

Here is a march or boundary between two things, the one familiar to most English travellers,
the other unfamiliar. The familiar thing is the rich alluvium and gravel of the Northern French
countrysides, the poplar trees, the full and quiet rivers, the many towns and villages of stone,
the broad white roads interminable and intersecting the very fat of prosperity, and over it
all a mild air. The unfamiliar is the mass of the Avernian Mountains, which mass is the core
and centre of Gaul and of Gaulish history, and of the unseen power that lies behind the whole
of that business.

The plains are before one, the mountains behind one, and one stands in that borderland. I know
it well.

I have said that in the Avernian Mountains was the centre of Gaul and the power upon which
the history of Gaul depends. Upon the Margeride, which is one of their uttermost ridges, du
Guesclin was wounded to death. One may see the huge stones piled up on the place where he fell.
In the heart of those mountains, at Puy, religion has effects that are eerie; it uses odd high
peaks for shrines--needles of rock; and a long way off all round is a circle of hills of a
black-blue in the distance, and they and the rivers have magical names--the river Red Cap and
Chaise Dieu, "God's Chair." In these mountains Julius Caesar lost (the story says) his sword;
and in these mountains the Roman armies were staved off by the Avernians. They are as full
of wonder as anything in Europe can be, and they are complicated and tumbled all about, so
that those who travel in them with difficulty remember where they have been, unless indeed
they have that general eye for a countryside which is rare nowadays among men.

Just at the place where the mountain land and the plain land meet, where the shallow valleys
get rounder and less abrupt, I went last September, following the directions of a soldier who
had told me how I might find where the centre of the manoeuvres lay. The manoeuvres, attempting
to reproduce the conditions of war, made a drifting scheme of men upon either side of the River
Sioule. One could never be certain where one would find the guns.

I had come up off the main road from Vichy, walking vaguely towards the sound of the firing.
It was unfamiliar. The old and terrible rumble has been lost for a generation; even the plain
noise of the field-piece which used to be called "90" is forgotten by the young men now. The
new little guns pop and ring. And when you are walking towards them from a long way off you
do not seem to be marching towards anything great, but rather towards something clever. Nevertheless
it is as easy to-day as ever it was to walk towards the sound of cannon.

Two valleys absolutely lonely had I trudged-through since the sun rose, and it was perhaps
eight o'clock when I came upon one of those lonely walled parks set in bare fields which the
French gentry seem to find homelike enough. I asked a man at the lodge about how far the position
was. He said he did not know, and looked upon me with suspicion.

I went down into the depth of the valley, and there I met a priest who was reading his Breviary
and erroneously believed me (if I might judge his looks) to be of a different religion, for
he tested philosophy by clothes; and this, by the way, is unalterably necessary for all mankind.
When, however, he found by my method of address that I knew his language and was of his own
faith, he became very courteous, and when I told him that I wanted to find the position he
became as lively as a linesman, making little maps with his stick in the earth, and waving
his arms, and making great sweeps with his hand to show the way in which the army had been
drifting all morning, northward and eastward, above the Sioule, with the other division on
the opposite bank, and how, whenever there was a bridge to be fought for, the game had been
to pretend that one or the other had got hold of it. Of this priest it might truly be said,
as was said of the priest of Thiers in the Forez, that chance had made him a choir-boy, but
destiny had designed him for the profession of arms; and upon this one could build an interesting
comedy of how chance and destiny are perpetually at issue, and how chance, having more initiative
and not being so bound to routine, gets the better of destiny upon all occasions whatsoever.

Well, the priest showed me in this manner whither I should walk, and so I came out of the valley
on to a great upland, and there a small boy (who was bullying a few geese near a pond) showed
much the same excitement as the priest when he told me at what village I should find the guns.

That village was a few miles further on. As I went along the straight, bare road, with stubble
upon either side, I thought the sound of firing got louder; but then, again, it would diminish,
as the batteries took a further and a further position in their advance. It was great fun,
this sham action, with its crescent of advancing fire and one's self in the centre of the curve.
At the next village I had come across the arteries of the movement. By one road provisionment
was going off to the right; by another two men with messages, one a Hussar on horseback, the
other a Reservist upon a bicycle, went by me very quickly. Then from behind some high trees
in a churchyard there popped out a lot of little Engineers, who were rolling a great roll of
wire along. So I went onwards; and at last I came to a cleft just before the left bank of the
Sioule. This cleft appeared deserted: there was brushwood on its sides and a tiny stream running
through it. On the ridge beyond were the roofs of a village. The firing of the pieces was now
quite close and near. They were a little further than the houses of the hamlet, doubtless in
some flat field where the position was favourable to them. Down that cleft I went, and in its
hollow I saw the first post, but as yet nothing more. Then when I got to the top of the opposing
ridge I found the whole of the 38th lolling under the cover of the road bank. From below you
would have said there were no men at all. The guns were right up beyond the line, firing away.
I went up past the linesmen till I found the guns.

And what a pretty sight! They were so small and light and delicate! There was no clanking,
and no shouting, and to fire them a man pulled a mere trigger. I thought to myself: "How simple
and easy our civilization becomes. Think of the motor-cars, and how they purr. Think of the
simple telephone, and all the other little things." And with this thought in my mind I continued
to watch the guns. Without yells or worry a man spoke gently to other men, and they all limbered
up, quite easily. The weight seemed to have gone since my time. They trotted off with the pieces,
and when they crossed the little ditch at the edge of the field I waited for the heavy clank-clank
and the jog that ought to go with that well-known episode; but I did not hear it, and I saw
no shock. They got off the field with its little ditch on to the high road as a light cart
with good springs might have done. And when they massed themselves under the cover of a roll
of land it was all done again without noise. I thought a little sadly that the world had changed.
But it was all so pretty and sensible that I hardly regretted the change. There was a stretch
of road in front where nothing on earth could have given cover. The line was on its stomach,
firing away, and it was getting fired at apparently, in the sham of the manoeuvre from the
other side of the Sioule. As it covered this open space the line edged forward and upward.
When a certain number of the 38th had worked up like this, the whole bunch of them, from half
a mile down the road, right through the village, were moved along, and the head of the column
was scattered to follow up the firing. It was like spraying water out of a tap. The guns still
stood massed, and then at a sudden order which was passed along as though in the tones of a
conversation (and again I thought to myself, "Surely the world is turning upside down since
I was a boy") they started off at a sharp gallop and leapt, as it were, the two or three hundred
yards of open road between cover and cover. They were very well driven. The middle horses and
the wheelers were doing their work: it was not only the leaders that kept the traces taut.
It was wonderfully pretty to see them go by: not like a storm but like a smoke. No one could
have hit those gunners or those teams. Whether they were on the sky-line or not I could not
tell, but at any rate they could have been seen just for that moment from beyond the Sioule.
And when they massed up again, beyond--some seconds afterwards--one heard the pop-pop from
over the valley, which showed they had been seen just too late.

Hours and hours after that I went on with the young fellows. The guns I could not keep with:
I walked with the line. And all the while as I walked I kept on wondering at the change that
comes over European things. This army of young men doing two years, with its odd silence and
its sharp twittering movements, and the sense of eyes all round one, of men glancing and appreciating:
individual men catching an opportunity for cover; and commanding men catching the whole countryside....
Then, in the early afternoon, the bugles and the trumpets sounded that long-drawn call which
has attended victories and capitulations, and which is also sounded every night to tell people
to put out the lights in the barrack-rooms. It is the French "Cease fire." And whether from
the national irony or the national economy, I know not, but the stopping of either kind of
fire has the same call attached to it, and you must turn out a light in a French barrack-room
to the same notes as you must by command stop shooting at the other people.

The game was over. I faced the fourteen miles back to Gannat very stiff. All during those hours
I had been wondering at the novelty of Europe, and at all these young men now so different,
at the silence and the cover, and the hefty, disposable little guns. But when I had my face
turned southward again to get back to a meal, that other aspect of Europe, its eternity, was
pictured all abroad. For there right before me stood the immutable mountains, which stand enormous
and sullen, but also vague at the base, and, therefore, in their summits, unearthly, above
the Limagne. There was that upper valley of the Allier down which Casar had retreated, gathering
his legions into the North, and there was that silent and menacing sky which everywhere broods
over Auvergne, and even in its clearest days seems to lend the granite and the lava land a
sort of doomed hardness, as though Heaven in this country commanded and did not allure. Never
had I seen a landscape more mysterious than those hills, nor at the same time anything more
enduring.

HOME

There is a river called the Eure which runs between low hills often wooded, with a flat meadow
floor in between. It so runs for many miles. The towns that are set upon it are for the most
part small and rare, and though the river is well known by name, and though one of the chief
cathedrals of Europe stands near its source, for the most part it is not visited by strangers.

In this valley one day as I was drawing a picture of the woods I found a wandering Englishman
who was in the oddest way. He seemed by the slight bend at his knees and the leaning forward
of his head to have no very great care how much further he might go. He was in the clothes
of an English tourist, which looked odd in such a place, as, for that matter, they do anywhere.
He had upon his head a pork-pie hat which was of the same colour and texture as his clothes,
a speckly brown. He carried a thick stick. He was a man over fifty years of age; his face was
rather hollow and worn; his eyes were very simple and pale; he was bearded with a weak beard,
and in his expression there appeared a constrained but kindly weariness. This was the man who
came up to me as I was drawing my picture. I had heard him scrambling in the undergrowth of
the woods just behind me.

He came out and walked to me across the few yards of meadow. The haying was over, so he did
the grass no harm. He came and stood near me, irresolutely, looking vaguely up and across the
valley towards the further woods, and then gently towards what I was drawing. When he had so
stood still and so looked for a moment he asked me in French the name of the great house whose
roof showed above the more ordered trees beyond the river, where a park emerged from and mixed
with the forest. I told him the name of the house, whereupon he shook his head and said that
he had once more come to the wrong place.

I asked him what he meant, and he told me, sitting down slowly and carefully upon the grass,
this adventure:

"First," said he, "are you always quite sure whether a thing is really there or not?"

"I am always quite sure," said I; "I am always positive."

He sighed, and added: "Could you understand how a man might feel that things were really there
when they were not?"

"Only," said I, "in some very vivid dream, and even then I think a man knows pretty well inside
his own mind that he is dreaming." I said that it seemed to me rather like the question of
the cunning of lunatics; most of them know at the bottom of their silly minds that they are
cracked, as you may see by the way they plot and pretend.

"You are not sympathetic with me," he said slowly, "but I will nevertheless tell you what I
want to tell you, for it will relieve me, and it will explain to you why I have again come
into this valley." "Why do you say 'again'?" said I.

"Because," he answered gently, "whenever my work gives me the opportunity I do the same thing.
I go up the valley of the Seine by train from Dieppe; I get out at the station at which I got
out on that day, and I walk across these low hills, hoping that I may strike just the path
and just the mood--but I never do."

"What path and what mood?" said I.

"I was telling you," he answered patiently, "only you were so brutal about reality." And then
he sighed. He put his stick across his knees as he sat there on the grass, held it with a hand
on either side of his knees, and so sitting bunched up began his tale once more.

"It was ten years ago, and I was extremely tired, for you must know that I am a Government
servant, and I find my work most wearisome. It was just this time of year that I took a week's
holiday. I intended to take it in Paris, but I thought on my way, as the weather was so fine,
that I would do something new and that I would walk a little way off the track. I had often
wondered what country lay behind the low and steep hills on the right of the railway line.

"I had crossed the Channel by night," he continued, a little sorry for himself, "to save the
expense. It was dawn when reached Rouen, and there I very well remember drinking some coffee
which I did not like, and eating some good bread which I did. I changed carriages at Rouen
because the express did not stop at any of the little stations beyond. I took a slower train,
which came immediately behind it, and stopped at most of the stations. I took my ticket rather
at random for a little station between Pont de l'Arche and Mantes. I got out at that little
station, and it was still early--only midway through the morning.

"I was in an odd mixture of fatigue and exhilaration: I had not slept and I would willingly
have done so, but the freshness of the new day was upon me, and I have always had a very keen
curiosity to see new sights and to know what lies behind the hills.

"The day was fine and already rather hot for June. I did not stop in the village near the station
for more than half an hour, just the time to take some soup and a little wine; then I set out
into the woods to cross over into this parallel valley. I knew that I should come to it and
to the railway line that goes down it in a very few miles. I proposed when I came to that other
railway line on the far side of the hills to walk quietly down it as nearly parallel to it
as I could get, and at the first station to take the next train for Chartres, and then the
next day to go from Chartres to Paris. That was my plan.

"The road up into the woods was one of those great French roads which sometimes frighten me
and always weary me by their length and insistence: men seem to have taken so much trouble
to make them, and they make me feel as though I had to take trouble myself; I avoid them when
I walk. Therefore, so soon as this great road had struck the crest of the hills and was well
into the woods (cutting through them like the trench of a fortification, with the tall trees
on either side) I struck out into a ride which had been cut through them many years ago and
was already half overgrown, and I went along this ride for several miles.

"It did not matter to me how I went, since my design was so simple and since any direction
more or less westward would enable me to fulfil it, that is, to come down upon the valley of
the Eure and to find the single railway line which leads to Chartres. The woods were very pleasant
on that June noon, and once or twice I was inclined to linger in their shade and sleep an hour.
But--note this clearly--I did not sleep. I remember every moment of the way, though I confess
my fatigue oppressed me somewhat as the miles continued.

"At last by the steepness of a new descent I recognized that I had crossed the watershed and
was coming down into the valley of this river. The ride had dwindled to a path, and I was wondering
where the path would lead me when I noticed that it was getting more orderly: there were patches
of sand, and here and there a man had cut and trimmed the edges of the way. Then it became
more orderly still. It was all sanded, and there were artificial bushes here and there--I mean
bushes not native to the forest, until at last I was aware that my ramble had taken me into
some one's own land, and that I was in a private ground.

"I saw no great harm in this, for a traveller, if he explains himself, will usually be excused;
moreover, I had to continue, for I knew no other way, and this path led me westward also. Only,
whether because my trespassing worried me or because I felt my own dishevelment more acutely,
the lack of sleep and the strain upon me increased as I pursued those last hundred yards, until
I came out suddenly from behind a screen of rosebushes upon a large lawn, and at the end of
it there was a French country house with a moat round it, such as they often have, and a stone
bridge over the moat.

"The chateau was simple and very grand. The mouldings upon it pleased me, and it was full of
peace. Upon the further side of the lawn, so that I could hear it but not see it, a fountain
was playing into a basin. By the sound it was one of those high French fountains which the
people who built such houses as these two hundred years ago delighted in. The plash of it was
very soothing, but I was so tired and drooping that at one moment it sounded much further than
at the next.

"There was an iron bench at the edge of the screen of roses, and hardly knowing what I did,--for
it was not the right thing to do in another person's place--I sat down on this bench, taking
pleasure in the sight of the moat and the house with its noble roof, and the noise of the fountain.
I think I should have gone to sleep there and at that moment--for I felt upon me worse than
ever the strain of that long hot morning and that long night journey--had not a very curious
thing happened."

Here the man looked up at me oddly, as though to see whether I disbelieved him or not; but
I did not disbelieve him.

I was not even very much interested, for I was trying to make the trees to look different one
from the other, which is an extremely difficult thing: I had not succeeded and I was niggling
away. He continued with more assurance:

"The thing that happened was this: a young girl came out of the house dressed in white, with
a blue scarf over her head and crossed round her neck. I knew her face as well as possible:
it was a face I had known all my youth and early manhood--but for the life of me I could not
remember her name!'

"When one is very tired," I said, "that does happen to one: a name one knows as well as one's
own escapes one. It is especially the effect of lack of sleep."

"It is," said he, sighing profoundly; "but the oddness of my feeling it is impossible to describe,
for there I was meeting the oldest and perhaps the dearest and certainly the most familiar
of my friends, whom," he added, hesitating a moment, "I had not seen for many years. It was
a very great pleasure ... it was a sort of comfort and an ending. I forgot, the moment I saw
her, why I had come over the hills, and all about how I meant to get to Chartres.... And now
I must tell you," added the man a little awkwardly, "that my name is Peter."

"No doubt," said I gravely, for I could not see why he should not bear that name.

"My Christian name," he continued hurriedly.

"Of course," said I, as sympathetically as I could. He seemed relieved that I had not even
smiled at it.

"Yes," he went on rather quickly, "Peter--my name is Peter. Well, this lady came up to me and
said, 'Why, Peter, we never thought you would come!' She did not seem very much astonished,
but rather as though I had come earlier than she had expected. 'I will get Philip,' she said.
'You remember Philip?' Here I had another little trouble with my memory: I did remember that
there was a Philip, but I could not place him. That was odd, you know. As for her, oh, I knew
her as well as the colour of the sky: it was her name that my brain missed, as it might have
missed my own name or my mother's.

"Philip came out as she called him, and there was a familiarity between them that seemed natural
to me at the time, but whether he was a brother or a lover or a husband, or what, I could not
for the life of me remember.

"'You look tired,' he said to me in a kind voice that I liked very much and remembered clearly.
'I am,' said I, 'dog tired.' 'Come in with us,' he said, 'and we will give you some wine and
water. When would you like to eat?' I said I would rather sleep than eat. He said that could
easily be arranged.

"I strolled with them towards the house across that great lawn, hearing the noise of the fountain,
now dimmer, now nearer; sometimes it seemed miles away and sometimes right in my ears. Whether
it was their conversation or my familiarity with them or my fatigue, at any rate, as I crossed
the moat I could no longer recall anything save their presence. I was not even troubled by
the desire to recall anything; I was full of a complete contentment, and this surging up of
familiar things, this surging up of it in a foreign place, without excuse or possible connexion
or any explanation whatsoever, seemed to me as natural as breathing.

"As I crossed the bridge I wholly forgot whence I came or whither I was going, but I knew myself
better than ever I had known myself, and every detail of the place was familiar to me.

"Here I had passed (I thought) many hours of my childhood and my boyhood and my early manhood
also. I ceased considering the names and the relation of Philip and the girl.

"They gave me cold meat and bread and excellent wine, and water to mix with it, and as they
continued to speak even the last adumbrations of care fell off me altogether, and my spirit
seemed entirely released and free. My approaching sleep beckoned to me like an easy entrance
into Paradise. I should wake from it quite simply into the perpetual enjoyment of this place
and its companionship. Oh, it was an absolute repose!

"Philip took me to a little room on the ground floor fitted with the exquisite care and the
simplicity of the French: there was a curtained bed, a thing I love. He lent me night clothes,
though it was broad day, because he said that if I undressed and got into the bed I should
be much more rested; they would keep everything quiet at that end of the house, and the gentle
fall of the water into the moat outside would not disturb me. I said on the contrary it would
soothe me, and I felt the benignity of the place possess me like a spell. Remember that I was
very tired and had not slept for now thirty hours.

"I remember handling the white counterpane and noting the delicate French pattern upon it,
and seeing at one corner the little red silk coronet embroidered, which made me smile. I remember
putting my hand upon the cool linen of the pillow-case and smoothing it; then I got into that
bed and fell asleep. It was broad noon, with the stillness that comes of a summer noon upon
the woods; the air was cool and delicious above the water of the moat, and my windows were
open to it.

"The last thing I heard as I dropped asleep was her voice calling to Philip in the corridor.
I could have told the very place. I knew that corridor so well. We used to play there when
we were children. We used to play at travelling, and we used to invent the names of railway
stations for the various doors. Remembering this and smiling at the memory, I fell at once
into a blessed sleep.

"...I do not want to annoy you," said the man apologetically, "but I really had to tell you
this story, and I hardly know how to tell you the end of it."

"Go on," said I hurriedly, for I had gone and made two trees one exactly like the other (which
in nature was never seen) and I was annoyed with myself.

"Well," said he, still hesitating and sighing with real sadness, "when I woke up I was in a
third-class carriage; the light was that of late afternoon, and a man had woken me by tapping
my shoulder and telling me that the next station was Chartres.... That's all."

He sighed again. He expected me to say something. So I did. I said without much originality:
"You must have dreamed it."

"No," said he, very considerably put out, "that is the point! I didn't! I tell you I can remember
exactly every stage from when I left the railway train in the Seine Valley until I got into
that bed."

"It's all very odd," said I.

"Yes," said he, "and so was my mood; but it was real enough. It was the second or third most
real thing that has ever happened to me. I am quite certain that it happened to me."

I remained silent, and rubbed out the top of one of my trees so as to invent a new top for
it, since I could not draw it as it was. Then, as he wanted me to say something more, I said:
"Well, you must have got into the train somehow."

"Of course," said he.

"Well, where did you get into the train?"

"I don't know."

"Your ticket would have told you that."

"I think I must have given it up to the man," he answered doubtfully, "the guard who told me
that the next station was Chartres."

"Well, it's all very mysterious," I said.

"Yes," he said, getting up rather weakly to go on again, "it is." And he sighed again. "I come
here every year. I hope," he added a little wistfully, "I hope, you see, that it may happen
to me again ... but it never does."

"It will at last," said I to comfort him.

And, will you believe it, that simple sentence made him in a moment radiantly happy; his face
beamed, and he positively thanked me, thanked me warmly.

"You speak like one inspired," he said. (I confess I did not feel like it at all.) "I shall
go much lighter on my way after that sentence of yours."

He bade me good-bye with some ceremony and slouched off, with his eyes set towards the west
and the more distant hills.

THE WAY TO FAIRYLAND

A child of four years old, having read of Fairyland and of the people in it, asked only two
days ago, in a very popular attitude of doubt, whether there were any such place, and, if so,
where it was; for she believed in her heart that the whole thing was a pack of lies.

I was happy to be able to tell her that her scepticism, though well founded, was extreme. The
existence of Fairyland, I was able to point out to her both by documentary evidence from books
and also by calling in the testimony of the aged, could not be doubted by any reasonable person.
What was really difficult was the way to get there. Indeed, so obviously true was the existence
of Fairyland, that every one in this world set out to go there as a matter of course, but so
difficult was it to find the way that very few reached the place. Upon this the child very
naturally asked me what sort of way the way was and why it was so difficult.

"You must first understand," said I, "where Fairyland is: it lies a little way farther than
the farthest hill you can see. It lies, in fact, just beyond that hill. The frontiers of it
are sometimes a little doubtful in any landscape, because the landscape is confused, but if
on the extreme limits of the horizon you see a long line of hills bounding your view exactly,
then you may be perfectly certain that on the other side of those hills is Fairyland. There
are times of the day and of the weather when the sky over Fairyland can be clearly perceived,
for it has a different colour from any other kind of sky. That is where Fairyland is. It is
not on an island, as some have pretended, still less is it under the earth--a ridiculous story,
for there it is all dark."

"But how do you get there?" asked the child. "Do you get there by walking to the hills and
going over?"

"No," said I, "that is just the bother of it. Several people have thought that that was the
way of getting there; in fact, it looked plain common sense, but there is a trick about it;
when you get to the hills everything changes, because the fairies have that power: the hills
become ordinary, the people living on them turn into people just like you and me, and then
when you get to the top of the hills, before you can say knife another common country just
like ours has been stuck on the other side. On this account, through the power of the fairies,
who hate particularly to be disturbed, no one can reach Fairyland in so simple a way as by
walking towards it."

"Then," said the child to me, "I don't see how any one can get there"--for this child had good
brains and common sense.

"But," said I, "you must have read in stories of people who get to Fairyland, and I think you
will notice that in the stories written by people who know anything about it (and you know
how easily these are distinguished from the others) there are always two ways of getting to
Fairyland, and only two: one is by mistake, and the other is by a spell. In the first way to
Fairyland is to lose your way, and this is one of the best ways of getting there; but it is
dangerous, because if you get there that way you offend the fairies. It is better to get there
by a spell. But the inconvenience of that is that you are blindfolded so as not to be allowed
to remember the way there or back again. When you get there by a spell, one of the people from
Fairyland takes you in charge. They prefer to do it when you are asleep, but they are quite
game to do it at other times if they think it worth their while.

"Why do they do it?" said the child.

"They do it," said I, "because it annoys the fairies very much to think that people are stopping
believing in them. They are very proud people, and think a lot of themselves. They can, if
they like, do us good, and they think us ungrateful when we forget about them. Sometimes in
the past people have gone on forgetting about fairies more and more and more, until at last
they have stopped believing in them altogether. The fairies meanwhile have been looking after
their own affairs, and it is their fault more than ours when we forget about them. But when
this has gone on for too long a time the fairies wake up and find out by a way they have that
men have stopped believing in them, and get very much annoyed. Then some fairy proposes that
a map of the way to Fairyland should be drawn up and given to the people; but this is always
voted down; and at last they make up their minds to wake people up to Fairyland by going and
visiting this world, and by spells bringing several people into their kingdom and so getting
witnesses. For, as you can imagine, it is a most unpleasant thing to be really important and
for other people not to know it."

"Yes," said the child, who had had this unpleasant experience, and greatly sympathized with
the fairies when I explained how much they disliked it. Then the child asked me again:

"Why do the fairies let us forget about them?"

"It is," said I, "because they get so excited about their own affairs. Rather more than a hundred
years ago, for instance, a war broke out in Fairyland because the King of the Fairies, whose
name is Oberon, and the Queen of the Fairies, whose name is Titania, had asked the Trolls to
dinner. The Gnomes were very much annoyed at this, and the Elves still more so, for the chief
glory of the Elves was that being elfish got you to know people; and it was universally admitted
that the Trolls ought never to be asked out, because they were trollish. King Oberon said that
all that was a wicked prejudice, and that the Trolls ought to be asked out to dinner just as
much as the Elves, in common justice. But his real reason was that he was bored by the perpetual
elfishness of the Elves, and wanted to see the great ugly Trolls trying to behave like gentlemen
for a change. So the Trolls came and tied their napkins round their necks, and ate such enormous
quantities at dinner that King Oberon and his Queen almost died of laughing. The Elves were
frightfully jealous, and so the war began. And while it was going on everybody in Earthland
forgot more and more about Fairyland, until at last some people went so far as to say, like
you, that Fairyland did not exist."

"I did not say so," said the child, "I only asked."

"But," I answered severely, "asking about such things is the beginning of doubting them. Anyhow,
the fairies woke up one fine day about the time when your great-grandfather got married, to
discover that they were not believed in, so they patched up their quarrel and they sent fairies
to cast spells, and any amount of people began to be taken to Fairyland, until at last every
one was forced to believe their evidence and to say that Fairyland existed."

"Were they glad?" said the child.

"Who?" said I; "the witnesses who were thus taken away and shown Fairyland?"

"Yes," said the child. "They ought to have been glad."

"Well, they weren't!" said I. "They were as sick as dogs. Not one of them but got into some
dreadful trouble. From one his wife ran away, another starved to death, a third killed himself,
a fourth was drowned and then burned upon the seashore, a fifth went mad (and so did several
others), and as for poverty, and all the misfortunes that go with it, it simply rained upon
the people who had been to Fairyland."

"Why?" said the child, greatly troubled.

"Ah!" said I, "that is what none of us know, but so it is, if they take you to Fairyland you
are in for a very bad business indeed. There is only one way out of it."

"And what is that?" said the child, interested.

"Washing," said I, "washing in cold water. It has been proved over and over again."

"Then," said the child happily, "they can take me to Fairyland as often as they like, and I
shall not be the worse for it, for I am washed in cold water every day. What about the other
way to Fairyland?"

"Oh that," said I, "that, I think, is much the best way; I've gone there myself."

"Have you really?" said the child, now intensely interested. "That is good! How often have
you been there?"

"Oh I can't tell you," I said carelessly, "but at least eight times, and perhaps more, and
the dodge is, as I told you, to lose your way; only the great trouble is that no one can lose
his way on purpose. At first I used to think that one had to follow signs. There was an omnibus
going down the King's Road which had 'To the World's End' painted on it. I got into this one
day, and after I had gone some miles I said to the man, 'When do we get to the World's End?'
'Oh,' said he, 'you have passed it long ago,' and he rang a little bell to make me get out.
So it was a fraud. Another time I saw another omnibus with the words, 'To the Monster,' and
I got into that, but I heard that it was only a sort of joke, and that though the Monster was
there all right, he was not in Fairyland. This omnibus went through a very uninteresting part
of London, and Fairyland was nowhere in the neighbourhood. Another time in the country of France
I came upon a printed placard which said: 'The excursion will pass by the Seven Winds, the
Foolish Heath, and St. Martin under Heaven.' This time also I thought I had got it, but when
I looked at the date on the placard I saw that the excursion had started several days before,
so I missed it again. Another time up in Scotland I saw a signpost on which there was, 'To
the King's House seven miles.' And some one had written underneath in pencil: 'And to the Dragon's
Cave eleven.' But nothing came of it. It was a false lane. After that I gave up believing that
one could get to Fairyland by signposts or omnibuses, until one day, quite by mistake, I chanced
on the dodge of losing one's way."

"How is that done?" said the child.

"That is what no one can tell you," said I. "If people knew how it was done everybody would
do it, but the whole point of losing your way is that you do it by mistake. You must be quite
certain that you have not lost your way or it is no good. You walk along, and you walk along,
and you wonder how long it will be before you get to the town, and then instead of getting
to the town at all, there you are in Fairyland."

"How do you know that you are in Fairyland?" said the little child.

"It depends how far you get in," said I. "If you get in far enough trees and rocks change into
men, rivers talk, and voices of people whom you cannot see tell you all sorts of things in
loud and clear tones close to your ear. But if you only get a little way inside then you know
that you are there by a sort of wonderment. The things ought to be like the things you see
every day, but they are a little different, notably the trees. It happened to me once in a
town called Lanchester. A part of that town (though no one would think of it to look at it)
happens to be in Fairyland. And there I was received by three fairies, who gave me supper in
an inn. And it happened to me once in the mountains and once it happened to me at sea. I lost
my way and came upon a beach which was in Fairyland. Another time it happened to me between
Goodwood and Upwaltham in Sussex."

At this moment the child's nurse came in to take it away, so she came to the point:

"How did you know you were in Fairyland?' she said doubtfully." Perhaps you are making all
this up."

"Nonsense!" I said reprovingly, "the only people who make things up are little children, for
they always tell lies. Grown-up people never tell lies. Let me tell you that one always knows
when one has been in Fairyland by the feeling afterwards, and because it is impossible to find
it again."

The child said, "Very well, I will believe you," but I could see from the expression of her
eyes that she was not wholly convinced, and that in the bottom of her heart she does not believe
there is any such place. She will, however, if she can hang on another forty years, and then
I shall have my revenge.

THE PORTRAIT OF A CHILD

In a garden which must, I think, lie somewhat apart and enclosed in one of the valleys of central
England, you came across the English grass in summer beneath the shade of a tree; you were
running, but your arms were stretched before you in a sort of dance and balance as though you
rather belonged to the air and to the growing things about you and above you than to the earth
over which you passed; and you were not three years old.

As, in jest, this charming vision was recorded by a camera which some guest had with him, a
happy accident (designed, for all we know, by whatever powers arrange such things, an accident
of the instrument or of the plate upon which your small, happy, advancing figure was recorded)
so chanced that your figure, when the picture was printed, shone all around with light.

I cannot, as I look at it now before me and as I write these words, express, however much I
may seek for expression, how great a meaning underlies that accident nor how full of fate and
of reason and of suggested truth that aureole grows as I gaze. Your innocence is beatified
by it, and takes on with majesty the glory which lies behind all innocence, but which our eyes
can never see. Your happiness seems in that mist of light to be removed and permanent; the
common world in which you are moving passes, through this trick of the lens, into a stronger
world more apt for such a sight, and one in which I am half persuaded (as I still look upon
the picture) blessedness is not a rare adventure, but something native and secure.

Little child, the trick which the camera has played means more and more as I still watch your
picture, for there is present in that light not only blessedness, but holiness as well. The
lightness of your movement and of your poise (as though you were blown like a blossom along
the tops of the grass) is shone through, and your face, especially its ready and wondering
laughter, is inspired, as though the Light had filled it from within; so that, looking thus,
I look not on, but through. I say that in this portrait which I treasure there is not only
blessedness, but holiness as well--holiness which is the cause of blessedness and which contains
it, and by which secretly all this world is sustained.

Now there is a third thing in your portrait, little child. That accident of light, light all
about you and shining through your face, is not only blessed nor only holy, but it is also
sacred, and with that thought there returns to me as I look what always should return to man
if he is to find any stuff or profit in his consideration of divine things. In blessedness
there is joy for which here we are not made, so that we catch it only in glimpses or in adumbrations.
And in holiness, when we perceive it we perceive something far off; it is that from which we
came and to which we should return; yet holiness is not a human thing. But things sacred--
things devoted to a purpose, things about which there lies an awful necessity of sacrifice,
things devoted and necessarily suffering some doom--these are certainly of this world; that,
indeed, all men know well at last, and find it part of the business through which they needs
must pass. Human memories, since they are only memories; human attachments, since they are
offered up and end; great human fears and hopeless human longings--these are sacred things
attached to a victim and to a sacrifice; and in this picture of yours, with the light so glorifying
you all round, no one can doubt who sees it but that the sacredness of human life will be yours
also; that is, you must learn how it is offered up to some end and what a sacrifice is there.

I could wish, as I consider this, that the camera had played no such trick, and had not revealed
in that haze of awful meaning all that lies beyond the nature of you, child. But it is a truth
which is so revealed; and we may not, upon a penalty more terrible than death, neglect any
ultimate truth concerning our mortal way.

Your feet, which now do not seem to press upon the lawn across which they run, have to go more
miles than you can dream of, through more places than you could bear to hear, and they must
be directed to a goal which will not in your very young delight be mentioned before you, or
of which, if it is mentioned, you will not understand by name; and your little hands which
you bear before you with the little gesture of flying things, will grasp most tightly that
which can least remain and will attempt to fashion what can never be completed, and will caress
that which will not respond to the caress. Your eyes, which are now so principally filled with
innocence that that bright quality drowns all the rest, will look upon so much of deadly suffering
and of misuse in men, that they will very early change themselves in kind; and all your face,
which now vaguely remembers nothing but the early vision from which childhood proceeds, will
grow drawn and self-guarded, and will suffer some agonies, a few despairs, innumerable fatigues,
until it has become the face of a woman grown. Nor will this sacred doom about you, which is
that of all mankind, cease or grow less or be mitigated in any way; it will increase as surely
and as steadily as increase the number of the years, until at last you will lay down the daylight
and the knowledge of day-lit things as gladly as now you wake from sleep to see them.

For you are sacred, and all those elders about you, whose solemn demeanour now and then startles
you into a pretty perplexity which soon calls back their smiles, have hearts only quite different
from your quite careless heart, because they have known the things to which, in the manner
of victims, they are consecrated.

All that by which we painfully may earn rectitude and a proper balance in the conduct of our
short affairs I must believe that you will practise; and I must believe, as I look here into
your face, seeing your confident advance (as though you were flying out from your babyhood
into young life without any fear), that the virtues which now surround you in a crowd and make
a sort of court for you and are your angels every way, will go along with you and will stand
by you to the end. Even so, and the more so, you will find (if you read this some years hence)
how truly it is written. By contrast with your demeanour, with your immortal hopes, and with
your pious efforts the world about you will seem darker and less secure with every passing
harvest, and in proportion as you remember the childhood which has led me so to write of you,
in proportion as you remember gladness and innocence with its completed joy, in that proportion
will you find at least a breaking burden in the weight of this world.

Now you may say to me, little child (not now, but later on), to what purpose is all this complaint,
and why should you tell me these things?

It is because in the portrait before me the holiness, the blessedness, and therefore the sacredness
are apparent that I am writing as I do. For you must know that there is a false way out and
a seeming relief for the rack of human affairs, and that this way is taken by many. Since you
are sacred do not take it, but bear the burden. It is the character of whatever is sacred that
it does not take that way; but, like a true victim, remains to the end, ready to complete the
sacrifice.

The way out is to forget that one is sacred, and this men and women do in many ways. The most
of them by way of treason. They betray. They break at first uneasily, later easily, and at
last unconsciously, the word which each of us has passed before He was born in Paradise. All
men and all women are conscious of that word, for though their lips cannot frame it here, and
though the terms of the pledge are forgotten, the memory of its obligation fills the mind.
But there comes a day, and that soon in the lives of many, when to break it once is to be much
refreshed and to seem to drop the burden; and in the second and the third time it is done,
and the fourth it is done more easily--until at last there is no more need for a man or a woman
to break that pledged word again and once again; it is broken for good and for all. This is
one most common way in which the sacred quality is lost: the way of treason. Round about such
as choose this kind of relief grows a habit and an air of treason. They betray all things at
last, and even common friendship is at last no longer theirs. The end of this false issue is
despair.

Another way is to take refuge from ourselves in pleasures, and this is easily done, not by
the worse, but by the better sort; for there are some, some few, who would never betray nor
break their ancient word, but who, seeing no meaning in a sacrifice nor in a burden, escape
from it through pleasure as through a drug, and this pleasure they find in all manner of things,
and always that spirit near them which would destroy their sacred mark, persuades them that
they are right, and that in such pursuits the sacrifice is evaded. So some will steep themselves
in rhyme, some in landscapes, some in pictures, some in the watching of the complexity and
change of things, some in music, some in action, some in mere ease. It seems as though the
men and women who would thus forget their sacredness are better loved and better warned than
those who take the other path, for they never forget certain gracious things which should be
proper to the mind, nor do they lose their friends. But that they have taken a wrong path you
may easily perceive from this sign: that these pleasures, like any other drug, do not feed
or satisfy, but must be increased with every dose, and even so soon pall and are continued
not because they are pleasures any longer, but because, dull though they have become, without
them there is active pain.

Take neither the one path nor the other, but retain, I beseech you, when the time comes, that
quality of sacredness of which I speak, for there is no alternative. Some trouble fell upon
our race, and all of us must take upon ourselves the business and the burden. If you will attempt
any way out at all it will but lead you to some worse thing. We have not all choices before
us, but only one of very few, and each of those few choices is mortal, and all but one is evil.

You should remember this also, dear little child, that at the beginning-- oh, only at the very
beginning of life--even your reason that God gave may lead you wrong. For with those memories
strong upon you of perfect will, of clear intelligence, and of harmonious beauty all about,
you will believe the world in which you stand to be the world from which you have come and
to which you are also destined. You have but to treat this world for but a very little while
as though it were the thing you think it to find it is not so.

Do you know that that which smells most strongly in this life of immortality, and which a poet
has called "the ultimate outpost of eternity," is insecure and perishes? I mean the passionate
affection of early youth. If that does not remain, what then do you think can remain? I tell
you that nothing which you take to be permanent round about you when you are very young is
more than the symbol or clothes of permanence. Another poet has written, speaking of the chalk
hills:--

   Only a little while remain
   The Downs in their solemnity.

Nor is this saying forced. Men and women cannot attach themselves even to the hills where they
first played.

Some men, wise but unillumined, and not conscious of that light which I here physically see
shining all round and through you in the picture which is before my eyes as I write, have said
that to die young and to end the business early was a great blessing. We do not know. But we
do know that to die long after and to have gone through the business must be blessed, since
blessedness and holiness and sacredness are bound together in one.

But, of these three, be certain that sacredness is your chief business, blessedness after your
first childhood you will never know, and holiness you may only see as men see distant mountains
lifted beyond a plain; it cannot be your habitation. Sacredness, which is the mark of that
purpose whose heir is blessedness, whose end is holiness, will be upon you until you die; maintain
it, and let it be your chief concern, for though you neglect it, it will remain and avenge itself.

All this I have seen in your picture as you go across the grass, and it was an accident of
the camera that did it. If any one shall say these things do not attach to the portrait of
a child, let him ask himself whether they do not attach to the portrait that might be drawn,
did human skill suffice, of the life of a woman or a man which springs from the demeanour of
childhood; or let him ask himself whether, if a face in old age and that same face in childhood
were equally and as by a revelation set down each in its full truth, and the growth of the
one into the other were interpreted by a profound intelligence, what I have said would not
be true of all that little passage of ours through the daylight.

ON EXPERIENCE

There are three phases in the life of man, so far as his thoughts upon his surroundings are
concerned.

The first of these is the phase of youth, in which he takes certain matured things for granted,
and whether he realizes his illusion or no, believes them to be eternal. This phase ends sharply
with every man, by the action of one blow. Some essence is dissolved, some binding cordage
snaps, or some one dies.

I say no matter how clearly the reason of a man tells him that all about him is changeable,
and that perfect and matured things and characters upon whose perfection and maturity he reposes
for his peace must disappear, his attitude in youth towards those things is one of a complete
security as towards things eternal. On the arrival of the Americans Dato Mandi offered to take it and
turn it over to them, but his proposition was declined.

He subsequently swore to an affidavit relative to conditions under
Insurgent rule. It reads as follows:--

"We always had peace in Zamboanga District; except during the revolution of the Filipinos in the year
1899, when for seven or eight months there was in existence the so-called Filipino Republic. During that
time there was much robbing and killing; the life of a man was worth no more than that of
a chicken; men killed one another for personal gain; enemies fought one another with the bolo instead of
settling their differences before the law. It was a time of bloodshed
and terror. There was no justice.

Because of this the Moros were opposed to the Filipinos. There was conflict between the better class
of Filipinos and the revolutionists, who had gained control of the local government." [336]

Elsewhere throughout the Moro territory those Filipinos who did not
promptly make their escape were murdered or enslaved.

In short, the lion and the lamb lay down together, with the lamb inside as usual.

Thus it will be seen that this first and last attempt of Filipinos
to govern Moros did not result in complete success.

Baldomero Aguinaldo made a subsequent attempt to open communication with
the Sultan of Joló, authorizing him to establish in all the rancherias
of Mindanao and Joló a government in accordance with a decree duly transmitted.
The Sultan was requested to report the result of his efforts and to give
the number of his forces with their arms, and was advised that, "if
in this war, which I consider to be the last, we secure our independence
and with the opposition of our brothers in that region, with yourself
at their head, we are successful in preventing the enemy from gaining
a foothold, the grateful country will always render a tribute of homage
and gratitude to your memory."

[337] Curiously, the Sultan seems to have remained unmoved by the
appeal. Henceforward he expects the passing of all to which
he is attached, and he is braced against loss by something lent to him which is to despair
as an angel is to a demon; something in the same category of emotion, but just and fortifying,
instead of void and vain and tempting and without an end. A man sees in this second phase of
his experience that he must lose. Oh, he does not lose in a gamble! It is not a question of
winning a stake or forfeiting it, as the vulgar falsehood of commercial analogy would try to
make our time believe. He knows henceforward that there is no success, no final attainment
of desire, because there is no fixity in any material thing. As he sits at table with the wisest
and keenest of his time, especially with the old, hearing true stories of the great men who
came before him, looking at well-painted pictures, admiring the proper printing of collected
books, and praising the just balance of some classical verse or music which time has judged
and made worthy, he so admires and enjoys with a full consciousness that these things are flowing
past him. He cannot rely; he attempts no foothold. The equilibrium of his soul is only to be
discovered in marching and continually marching. He now knows that he must go onward, he may
not stand, for if he did he would fall. He must go forward and see the river of things run
by. He must go forward--but to what goal?

There is a third phase, in which (as the experience of twenty Christian centuries determines)
that goal also is discovered, and for some who so discover it the experience of loss begins
to possess a meaning.

What this third phase is I confess I do not know, and as I have not felt it I cannot describe
it, but when that third phase is used as I have suggested a character of wisdom enters into
those so using it; a character of wisdom which is the nearest thing our dull time can show
to inspiration and to prophecy.

It is to be noted also that in this third phase of man's experience of doom those who are not
wise are most unwise indeed; and that where the age of experience has not produced this sort
of clear maturity in the spirit, then it produces either despair or folly, or an exaggerated
shirking of reality, which, being a falsehood, is wickeder than despair, and far more inhuman
than mere foolishness. Thus those who in the third phase of which I speak have not attained
the wisdom which I here recognize will often sink into a passion of avarice, accumulating wealth
which they cannot conceivably enjoy; a stupidity so manifest that every age of satire has found
it the most facile of commonplaces. Or, again, those who fail to find wisdom in that last phase
will constantly pretend an unreal world, making plans for a future that cannot be there. So
did a man eleven years ago in the neighbourhood of Regent Street, for this man, being eighty-seven
years of age, wealthy, and wholly devoid of friends, or near kindred, took a flat, but he insisted
that the lease should be one of not less than sixty years. In a hundred ways this last phase
if it is degraded is most degraded; and, though it is not worst, it is most sterile when it
falls to a mere regret for the past.

Now it is here that the opposite, the wisdoms of old age appears; for the old, when they are
wise, are able to point out to men and to women of middle age what these least suspect, and
can provide them with a good medicine against the insecurity of the soul. The old in their
wisdom can tell those just beneath them this: that though all things human pass, all bear their
fruit. They can say: "You believe that such and such a woman, with her courtesy, her travel,
her sharp edge of judgment, her large humanity, and her love of the comedy of the world, being
dead can never be replaced. There are, growing up around you, characters quite insufficient,
and to you, perhaps, contemptible, who will in their fruiting display all these things." There
never was, nor has been, a time (say those who are acquainted with the great story of Europe)
when Christendom has failed. Out of dead passages there has sprung up suddenly, and quite miraculously,
whatever was thought to be lost. So it has been with our music, so with the splendour of our
armies, so with the fabric of our temples, so with our deathless rhymes. The old, when they
are wise, can do for men younger than they what history does for the reader; but they can do
it far more poignantly, having expression in their eyes and the living tones of a voice. It
is their business to console the world.

ON IMMORTALITY

Here and there, scattered rarely among men as men are now, you will find one man who does not
pursue the same ends as his fellows; but in a peculiar manner leads his life as though his
eyes were fixed upon some distant goal or his appetites subjected to some constant and individual
influence.

Such a man may be doing any one of many things. He may be a poet, and his occupation may be
the writing of good verse, pleased at its sound and pleased as well by the reflection of the
pleasure it will give to others. Or he may be devoted, and follow a creed, a single truth or
a character which he loves, and whose influence and glory he makes it his business to propagate.
Or he may be but a worker in some material, a carver in wood, or a manager of commercial affairs,
or a governor and administrator of men, and yet so order his life that his work and his material
are his object: not his gain in the end--not his appreciable and calculable gain at least--nor
his immediate and ephemeral pleasures.

Such men, if you will examine them, will prove intent upon one ultimate completion of their
being which is also (whether they know it or not) a reward, and those who have carefully considered
the matter and give it expression say that such men are out a-hunting for Immortality.

Now what is that? There was a man, before the Normans came to England, who sailed from the
highest Scandinavian mountains, I think, towards these shores, and landing, fought against
men and was wounded so that he was certain to die. When they asked him why he had undertaken
that adventure, he answered: "That my name might live between the lips of men."

The young, the adventurous, the admired--how eagerly and how properly do they not crave for
glory. Fame has about it a divine something as it were an echo of perfect worship and of perfect
praise, which, though it is itself imperfect, may well deceive the young, the adventurous,
and the admired. How great to think that things well done and the enlargement of others shall
call down upon our names, even when all is lost but the mere names, a continuous and an increasing
benediction. [~HW: Ezra Adams, Swansea (about 10m. south of Columbia)~]

Project 1885-1. Folk Lore District No. 4. May 27, 1937. Edited by:
J. J. Murray.

EX-SLAVE STORIES

"Aunt"

Mary Adams was swinging easily back and forth in the porch swing as
the writer stopped to speak to her.

When questioned, she replied that she and her mother were ex-slaves
and had belonged to Dr. C. E. Fleming.

She was born in Columbia, but they were moved to Glenn Springs where her mother cooked for Dr. Fleming.

She
remembers going with a white woman whose husband was in jail, to carry him something to eat. She
said that Mr. Jim Milster was in that jail, but he lived to get out,
and later kept a tin shop in Spartanburg.

"Yes sir, Dr. Fleming always kept enough for us Niggers to eat during
the war.

He was good to us. You know he married Miss Dean. Do you know Mrs. Lyles, Mrs.
Simpson, Mr. Ed Fleming? Well, dey are my chilluns.

"Some man here told me one day that I was ninety years old, but I
do not believe I am quite that old.

I don't know how old I am, but I was walking during slavery times. I can't work now, for my feet
hurt me and my fingers ain't straight."

She said all of her children were dead but two, that she knew of.

She said
that she had a room in that house and white people gave her different
things.

As the writer told her good-bye, she said, "Good-bye, and may the Lord
bless you".

Source: "Aunt"

Mary Adams, 363 S. Liberty Street, Spartanburg, S. C. Interviewer:
F. S. DuPre, Spartanburg, S. C.

Project #1655 Everett R. Pierce Columbia,
S. C.

VICTORIA ADAMS EX-SLAVE 90 YEARS OLD.

"You ask me to tell you something 'bout myself and de slaves in slavery
times?

Well Missy, I was
borned a slave, nigh on to ninety years ago, right down here at Cedar
Creek, in Fairfield County.

"My massa's name was Samuel Black and missus was named Martha. She
used to be Martha Kirkland befo' she married. There was five chillun
in de family; they was: Alice, Manning, Sally, Kirkland, and de baby,
Eugene.

De white folks live in a great big house up on a hill; it was right
pretty, too.

"You wants to know how large de plantation was I lived on? Well, I
don't know 'zackly but it was mighty large. There was forty of us
slaves in all and it took all of us to keep de plantation goin'. De
most of de niggers work in de field. They went to work as soon as
it git light enough to see how to git 'round; then when twelve o'clock
come, they all stops for dinner and don't go back to work 'til two.
All of them work on 'til it git almost dark. No ma'am, they ain't
do much work at night after they gits home.

"Massa Samuel ain't had
no overseer, he look after his own plantation. My old granddaddy help
him a whole heap though.

There is no man who has closely inquired upon this, and there is none who has troubled himself
and admitted a reasonable anxiety upon it, who has not well retained the nature of despair.
Those who approach their fellow-beings with assertion and with violence in such a matter, affirming
their discovery, their conviction, or their acquired certitude, do an ill service to their
kind. It is not thus that the last things should be approached nor the most tremendous problem
which man is doomed to envisage be propounded and solved. Ah! the long business in this world!
The way in which your deepest love goes up in nothingness and breaks away, and the way in which
the strongest and the most continuous element of your dear self is dissipated and fails you
in some moment; if I do not understand these things in a man nor comprehend how the turn of
the years can obscure or obliterate a man's consciousness of what his end should be, then I
act in brute ignorance, or what is much worse, in lack of charity.

How should you not be persuaded, ephemeral intelligence? Does not every matter which you have
held closely enough and long enough escape you and withdraw? Is not that doom true of things
which were knit into us, and were of necessity, so to speak, prime parts of our being? Is it
not true of the network and the structure which supports whatever we are, and without which
we cannot imagine ourselves to be? We ourselves perish. Of that there is no doubt at all. One
is here talking and alive. His friends are with him: on the time when they shall meet again
he is utterly not there. The motionless flesh before his mourners is nothing. It is not a simulacrum,
it is not an outline, it is not a recollection of the man, but rather something wholly gone
useless. As for that voice, those meanings in the eyes, and that gesture of the hand, it has
suddenly and entirely ceased to be.

Then how shall we deny the dreadful conclusion (to which how many elder civilizations have
not turned!) that we must seek in vain for any gift to the giver for any workers' wage, or,
rather, to put it more justly, for a true end to the life we lead. Yet it is not so. The conclusion
is more weighty by far that all things bear their fruit: that the comprehender and the master
of so much, the very mind, suffers to no purpose and in one moment a tragic, final, and unworthy
catastrophe agrees with nothing other that we know. It is not thus of the good things of the
earth that turn kindly into the earth again. It cannot be thus with that which makes of all
the earth a subject thing for contemplation and for description, for understanding, and, if
it so choose--for sacrifice.

Those of our race who have deliberately looked upon the scroll and found there nothing to read,
who have lifted the curtain and found beyond it nothing to see, have faced their conclusions
with a nobility which should determine us; for that nobility does prove, or, if it does not
prove, compels us to proclaim, that the soul of man which breeds it has somewhere a lasting
home. The conclusion is imperative.

Let not any one pretend in his faith that his faith is immediately evident and everywhere acceptable.
There is in all who pretend to judgment a sense of the doubt that lies between the one conviction
and the other, and all acknowledge that the scales swing normally upon the beam for normal
men. But they swing--and one is the heavier.

The poets, who are our interpreters, know well and can set forth the contrast between such
intimations and such despair.

   The long descent of wasted days
   To these at last have led me down:
   Remember that I filled with praise
   The meaningless and doubtful ways
   That lead to an eternal town.

Moreover, since we have spoken of the night it is only reasonable to consider the alternate
dawn. The quality of light, its merry action on the mind, the daylit sky under whose benediction
we repose and in which our kind has always seen the picture of its final place: are these then
visions and deceits?

ON SACRAMENTAL THINGS

It is good for a man's soul to sit down in the silence by himself and to think of those things
which happen by some accident to be in communion with the whole world. If he has not the faculty
of remembering these things in their order and of calling them up one after another in his
mind, then let him write them down as they come to him upon a piece of paper. They will comfort
him; they will prove a sort of solace against the expectation of the end. To consider such
things is a sacramental occupation. And yet the more I think of them the less I can quite understand
in what elements their power consists.

A woman smiling at a little child, not knowing that others see her, and holding out her hands
towards it, and in one of her hands flowers; an old man, lean and active, with an eager face,
walking at dusk upon a warm and windy evening westward towards a clear sunset below dark and
flying clouds; a group of soldiers, seen suddenly in manoeuvres, each man intent upon his business,
all working at the wonderful trade, taking their places with exactitude and order and yet with
elasticity; a deep, strong tide running back to the sea, going noiselessly and flat and black
and smooth, and heavy with purpose under an old wall; the sea smell of a Channel seaport town;
a ship coming up at one out of the whole sea when one is in a little boat and is waiting for
her, coming up at one with her great sails merry and every one doing its work, with the life
of the wind in her, and a balance, rhythm, and give in all that she does which marries her
to the sea--whether it be a fore and aft rig and one sees only great lines of the white, or
a square rig and one sees what is commonly and well called a leaning tower of canvas, or that
primal rig, the triangular sail, that cuts through the airs of the world and clove a way for
the first adventures, whatever its rig, a ship so approaching an awaiting boat from which we
watch her is one of the things I mean.

I would that the taste of my time permitted a lengthy list of such things: they are pleasant
to remember! They do so nourish the mind! A glance of sudden comprehension mixed with mercy
and humour from the face of a lover or a friend; the noise of wheels when the guns are going
by; the clatter-clank-clank of the pieces and the shouted halt at the head of the column; the
noise of many horses, the metallic but united and harmonious clamour of all those ironed hoofs,
rapidly occupying the highway; chief and most persistent memory, a great hill when the morning
strikes it and one sees it up before one round the turning of a rock after the long passes
and despairs of the night.

When a man has journeyed and journeyed through those hours in which there is no colour or shape,
all along the little hours that were made for sleep and when, therefore, the waking soul is
bewildered or despairs, the morning is always a resurrection--but especially when it reveals
a height in the sky.

This last picture I would particularly cherish, so great a consolation is it, and so permanent
a grace does it lend later to the burdened mind of a man.

For when a man looks back upon his many journeys--so many rivers crossed, and more than one
of them forded in peril; so many swinging mountain roads, so many difficult steeps and such
long wastes of plains--of all the pictures that impress themselves by the art or kindness of
whatever god presides over the success of journeys, no picture more remains than that picture
of a great hill when the day first strikes it after the long burden of the night.

Whatever reasons a man may have for occupying the darkness with his travel and his weariness,
those reasons must be out of the ordinary and must go with some bad strain upon the mind. Perhaps
one undertook the march from an evil necessity under the coercion of other men, or perhaps
in terror, hoping that the darkness might hide one, or perhaps for cool, dreading the unnatural
heat of noon in a desert land; perhaps haste, which is in itself so wearying a thing, compelled
one, or perhaps anxiety. Or perhaps, most dreadful of all, one hurried through the night afoot
because one feared what otherwise the night would bring, a night empty of sleep and a night
whose dreams were waking dreams and evil.

But whatever prompts the adventure or the necessity, when the long burden has been borne, and
when the turn of the hours has come; when the stars have grown paler; when colour creeps back
greyly and uncertainly to the earth, first into the greens of the high pastures, then here
and there upon a rock or a pool with reeds, while all the air, still cold, is full of the scent
of morning; while one notices the imperceptible disappearance of the severities of Heaven until
at last only the morning star hangs splendid; when in the end of that miracle the landscape
is fully revealed, and one finds into what country one has come; then a great hill before one,
losing the forests upwards into rock and steep meadow upon its sides, and towering at last
into the peaks and crests of the inaccessible places, gives a soul to the new land.... The
sun, in a single moment and with the immediate summons of a trumpet-call, strikes the spear-head
of the high places, and at once the valley, though still in shadow, is transfigured, and with
the daylight all manner of things have come back to the world.

Hope is the word which gathers the origins of those things together, and hope is the seed of
what they mean, but that new light and its new quality is more than hope. Livelihood is come
back with the sunrise, and the fixed certitude of the soul; number and measure and comprehension
have returned, and a just appreciation of all reality is the gift of the new day. Glory (which,
if men would only know it, lies behind all true certitude) illumines and enlivens the seen
world, and the living light makes of the true things now revealed something more than truth
absolute; they appear as truth acting and creative.

This first shaft of the sun is to that hill and valley what a word is to a thought. It is to
that hill and valley what verse is to the common story told; it is to that hill and valley
what music is to verse. And there lies behind it, one is very sure, an infinite progress of
such exaltations, so that one begins to understand, as the pure light shines and grows and
as the limit of shadow descends the vast shoulder of the steep, what has been meant by those
great phrases which still lead on, still comfort, and still make darkly wise, the uncomforted
wondering of mankind. Such is the famous phrase: "Eye has not seen nor ear heard, nor can it
enter into the heart of man what things God has prepared for those that serve Him."

So much, then, is conveyed by a hill-top at sunrise when it comes upon the traveller or the
soldier after the long march of a night, the bending of the shoulders, and the emptiness of
the dark.

Many other things put one into communion with the whole world.

Who does not remember coming over a lifting road to a place where the ridge is topped, and
where, upon the further side, a broad landscape, novel or endeared by memory (for either is
a good thing), bursts upon the seized imagination as a wave from the open sea, swelling up
an inland creek, breaks and bursts upon the rocks of the shore? There is a place where a man
passes from the main valley of the Rhone over into the valley of the Isere, and where the Gresivandan
so suddenly comes upon him. Two gates of limestone rock, high as the first shoulders of the
mountains, lead into the valley which they guard; it is a province of itself, a level floor
of thirty miles, nourished by one river, and walled in up to the clouds on either side.

Or again, in the champagne country, moving between great blocks of wood in the Forest of Rheims
and always going upward as the ride leads him, a man comes to a point whence he suddenly sees
all that vast plain of the invasions stretching out to where, very far off against the horizon,
two days away, twin summits mark the whole site sharply with a limit as a frame marks a picture
or a punctuation a phrase.

There is another place more dear to me, but which I doubt whether any other but a native of
that place can know. After passing through the plough lands of an empty plateau, a traveller
breaks through a little fringe of chestnut hedge and perceives at once before him the wealthiest
and the most historical of European things, the chief of the great capitals of Christendom
and the arena in which is now debated (and has been for how long!) the Faith, the chief problem
of this world.

Apart from landscape other things belong to this contemplation: Notes of music, and, stronger
even than repeated and simple notes of music, a subtle scent and its association, a familiar
printed page. Perhaps the test of these sacramental things is their power to revive the past.

There is a story translated into the noblest of English writing by Dasent. It is to be found
in his "Tales from the Norse." It is called the Story of the Master Maid.

A man had found in his youth a woman on the Norwegian hills: this woman was faery, and there
was a spell upon her. But he won her out of it in various ways, and they crossed the sea together,
and he would bring her to his father's house, but his father was a King. As they went over-sea
together alone, he said and swore to her that he would never forget how they had met and loved
each other without warning, but by an act of God, upon the Dovrefjeld. Come near his father's
house, the ordinary influences of the ordinary day touched him; he bade her enter a hut and
wait a moment until he had warned his father of so strange a marriage; she, however, gazing
into his eyes, and knowing how the divine may be transformed into the earthly, quite as surely
as the earthly into the divine, makes him promise that he will not eat human food. He sits
at his father's table, still steeped in her and in the seas. He forgets his vow and eats human
food, and at once he forgets.

Then follows much for which I have not space, but the woman in the hut by her magic causes
herself to be at last sent for to the father's palace. The young man sees her, and is only
slightly troubled as by a memory which he cannot grasp. They talk together as strangers; but
looking out of the window by accident the King's son sees a bird and its mate; he points them
out to the woman, and she says suddenly: "So was it with you and me high up upon the Dovrefjeld."
Then he remembers all.

Now that story is a symbol, and tells the truth. We see some one thing in this world, and suddenly
it becomes particular and sacramental; a woman and a child, a man at evening, a troop of soldiers;
we hear notes of music, we smell the smell that went with a passed time, or we discover after
the long night a shaft of light upon the tops of the hills at morning: there is a resurrection,
and we are refreshed and renewed.

But why all these things are so neither I nor any other man can tell.

IN PATRIA

There is a certain valley, or rather profound cleft, through the living rock of certain savage
mountains through which there roars and tumbles in its narrow trench the Segre, here but a
few miles from its rising in the upland grass.

This cleft is so disposed that the smooth limestone slabs of its western wall stand higher
than the gloomy steps of cliff upon its eastern, and thus these western cliffs take the glare
of the morning sunlight upon them, or the brilliance of the moon when she is full or waning
in the first part of her course through the night.

The only path by which men can go down that gorge clings to the eastern face of the abyss and
is for ever plunged in shadow. Down this path I went very late upon a summer night, close upon
midnight, and the moon just past the full. The air was exceedingly clear even for that high
place, and the moon struck upon the limestone of the sheer opposing cliffs in a manner neither
natural nor pleasing, but suggesting horror, and, as it were, something absolute, too simple
for mankind.

It was not cold, but there were no crickets at such a level in the mountains, nor any vegetation
there except a brush here and there clinging between the rocks and finding a droughty rooting
in their fissures. Though the map did not include this gorge, I could guess that it would be
impossible for me, save by following that dreadful path all night, to find a village, and therefore
I peered about in the dense shadow as I went for one of those overhanging rocks which are so
common in that region, and soon I found one. It was a refuge better than most that I had known
during a lonely travel of three days, for the whole bank was hollowed in, and there was a distinct,
if shallow, cave bordering the path. Into this, therefore, I went and laid down, wrapping myself
round in a blanket I had brought from the plains beyond the mountains, and, with my loaf and
haversack and a wine-skin that I carried for a pillow, I was very soon asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I woke, which I did with suddenness, it seemed to me to have turned uncommonly cold, and
when I stepped out from my blanket (for I was broad awake) the cold struck me still more nearly,
and was not natural in such a place. The Servian Government had formerly disclaimed any complicity
with the assassination and had pledged itself to punish any Servian
citizen implicated therein.

From time to time, from June 28 to July 23, there came semi-inspired
intimations from Vienna that that country intended to act with great
self-restraint and in the most pacific manner.

In his speech to the French Chamber of Deputies, Viviani says that Europe had in the interval
preceding July 23 express assurances from Austria that its course would be moderate and conciliatory.
Never was it even hinted that Germany and Austria were about to apply
in a time of profound peace a match to the powder magazine of Europe.

It is one of the most significant documents in the entire correspondence. As the full text of the
ultimatum first reached the Foreign Chancelleries nearly twenty-four
hours after its service upon Servia, the other European nations had
barely a day to consider what could be done to preserve the peace
of Europe before that peace was fatally compromised.

[German "White Paper," Annex 1B.]

How could Germany thus indorse the "demands" if it did not know the
substance of the ultimatum?

Let us, then, analyze the record as already made up; and for the sake
of clearness the events which preceded the war will be considered
chronologically.

He justly observes that

"a refusal to extend the terms of the ultimatum ... would be in contradiction
with the very bases of international relations."

Concurrently with Sazonof's plea for a little time to preserve the
peace of the world, Sir Edward Grey had seen the German Ambassador
on July 24 and had suggested to him that the only method of preventing
the catastrophe was

"that the four powers, Germany, France, Italy,
and ourselves, (England,) should work together simultaneously at Vienna
and St. Petersburg."

To which the only reply of the Austrian Foreign Minister was that
their representative in Servia

"was under instructions to leave Belgrade
unless Austrian demands were accepted in their integrity by 4 P.M.
tomorrow."

[English "White Paper," No. 7.]

Austria's only concession
then or subsequently to the cause of peace was the assurance that
Austria would not after its conquest of Servia demand any territory. With every passing moment, moreover, the light grew less secure, the scud
thickened, and as we rose towards the lower level of those clouds the mass of them grew more
even, until at last the path and some few yards of the emptiness which sank away to our left
was all one could discern. The mist was full of a diffused moonlight, but it was dense. I wondered
when we should strike out of the gorge and begin to find the upland grasses that lead toward
the highest summits of those hills, for thither I was sure were we bound.

Soon I began to recognize that easier trend in the rock wall, those increasing and flattened
gullies which mark the higher slope. Here and there an unmelted patch of snow appeared, grass
could be seen, and at last we were upon the roll of the high land where it runs up steeply
to the ridge of the chain. Moss and the sponging of moisture in the turf were beneath our feet,
the path disappeared, and our climb got steeper and steeper; and still the little man went
on before, pressing eagerly and breasting the hill. I neither felt fatigue nor noticed that
I did not feel it. The extreme angle of the slope suited my mood, nor was I conscious of its
danger, though its fantastic steepness exhilarated me because it was so novel to be trying
such things at night in such a weather. The moon, I think, must by this time have been near
its sinking, for the mist grew full of darkness round about us, and at last it was altogether
deep night. Take your Hartichoakes and pare away all the top, even to the Meat, and boyle them in
sweet Broth till they be somewhat tender, then take them oat, and put them in a dish, and seeth
them with Pepper, Cinamon, and Ginger, then put them in the dish you mean to bake them in and
put in marrow to them good store, and so let them bake, and when they be baked, put in a little
Vineger and Butter, and stick three or four leaves of the Hartichoakes
in the dish when you serve them up, and scrape Sugar upon the dish.

He was waiting, and I waited with him: we had not long so to stand.

The mist which so often lifts as one passes the crest of the hills lifted for us also, and,
below, it was broad day.

Ten thousand feet below, at the foot of forest cascading into forest, stretched out into an
endless day, was the Weald. There were the places I had always known, but not as I had known
them: they were in another air. There was the ridge, and the river valley far off to the eastward,
and Pasham Pines, Amberley wild brooks, and Petworth the little town, and I saw the Rough clearly,
and the hills out beyond the county, and beyond them farther plains, and all the fields and
all the houses of the men I knew. The English fleet sailed away from Boston and the Continental Army
marched in.

So far the cause of King George was going very badly indeed; so far the rebellious colonists had failed
to justify the confident prophecies of Lord Sandwich. These and the forests were
foreign; the Weald below, so many thousand feet below, was not foreign but transformed. The
dwarf went down that road. I did not follow him. I saw him clearly now. His curious little
coat of mountain stuff, his thin, bent legs walking rapidly, and the chestnut sapling by he
walked, holding it in his hand by the middle. I could see the brown colour of it, and the shininess
of the bark of it, and the ovals of white where the branchlings had been cut away. After this follows,
in the fourth period, the victory gained by Ahura-Mazda. Sosiosh (Saoshyas),
the deliverer already foretold in the Vendidad, appears.

The resurrection of the dead, not taught by Zarathustra or in the
Vendidad, takes place.