Explorations of some mines of gold and silver have been made in California, but they remain
in the same state with the other minerales. One and another have been worked superficially,
but their possessors abandoned them when they presented any obstacle, which made the working
more costly, so that it is no exaggeration to say they all are now abandoned. In a country
almost a wilderness (desierto), where the want of conveniences in exploration of the mines
failed to engender the stimulus of acquiring and preserving the proprietorship of the discoveries,[85]
and where, with the same facility with which they abandon one known vein, they proceed to work
another new vein--in a country where the great part of the inhabitants might well be considered
as tribes that have only reached the first grades of civilization, rather than organized societies,
it is not strange that there is a want of mineral recognizances where only the mines at which
the metals are easily procured, and not costly in extracting from the ore, are worked.

      [85] The proprietorship of mines in Mexico is acquired by proof
      being made to the mining court of discovery and actual working;
      and is again lost by an abandonment of four months; there is no
      other source of title to mineral lands.

Notwithstanding that which has been said, there are various residents of the mineral districts
referred to that extract gold and silver sufficient to cover their commercial transactions,
to pay their laborers and the salaries of their operatives, to procure certain necessaries,
and to enjoy certain luxuries which many of their fellow-citizens do not enjoy. To ascertain
to what value these extractions of metals ascend is extremely difficult for the want of data
with which to aid any calculation.

The benefiting (extracting the metals from the ores) is no less imperfectly done than the labor
of the mines. There are no haciendas for benefiting; many persons that engage themselves in
mining speculations have in that territory one, two, and even five horse-mills, with which
they grind the metal; this they mix with quicksilver and salt--imitating the process by the
patio--in proportion of 50 pounds of the first and 75 of the second to 625 (25 arobas) of metal,
and, proceeding by means of fusion in bad ovens, they obtain silver. Some others obtain it
by means of vases of refining with the aid of lead.

The consumptions of the Californians in the extraction of the precious metals consist of quicksilver,
salt, and wood; the first they have purchased in the last years at two dollars a pound, the
second at thirty-seven and a half cents for twenty-five pounds, and the third at a quarter
of a dollar a mule-load. It is to be presumed that when the quicksilver of Northern California
comes to compete with the quicksilver of Spain in the mineral districts of the interior[86]
of the republic, the price of this principal element for conducting the working of mines will
fall greatly in all the nation, and that the Mineria will assume a grade of prosperity never
yet seen in our country; and Lower California, by its proximity to the places of the production
of mercury, will obtain it, without doubt, at a still lower price. The day-laborers, who work
the mines of this territory, receive for their labor from seventy-five cents to one dollar;
but there is not a fixed number, neither is their occupation constant.

      [86] This term is applied to all places distant from the capital.

It is not necessary to speak of the existence of companies for exploring mines in a country
where there is such a scarcity of population, and where there is not an accumulation of capital
sufficient in order that a part of it might be employed in the hazardous enterprises of mineral
industry. The judges of first instance are the authorities that in Lower California take cognizance
of all accounts concerning the affairs of mines (á la Mineria).

In the river which passes by Muleje and Gallinas, the inhabitants of those places collect the
sands, from which they obtain small quantities of gold in dust. In another placer, which embraces
an extension of seven leagues, they also extract some gold in dust in quantities as insignificant
as those which result from the sands of the river mentioned.

Silver and gold are the only metals that have claimed the attention of the Californians, because
they derive an advantage from their extraction, and not because there do not exist other metals
less valuable, but which yield proportionably greater profit to the miners that undertake the
exploration; these are lead, copper, iron, magistral, crystal of Roca, loadstone, and alum.

E.

THE REMAINS OF CORTÉZ.

The account of the disposition of the remains of Cortéz, given on page 279, is the one commonly
received, and contained in works of standard authority. Since this volume was placed in the
hands of the printers, I have received a new number of the Apuentes Históricos, which contains
another account, which is undoubtedly the true one. According to this, when the body of Cortéz
was first brought to America, it was taken to Tezcuco, and buried at the San Franciscan convent,
beside that of his friend, King Don Fernando. In the course of the following century it was
taken to Mexico and buried in the convent of the Jesuits (the Pro-for is probably intended).
After the Revolution, it was transported to Sicily by the agent of his descendant, the present
"Marquis of the Valley."

THE END.