Owen passed to Exeter at the time we came home, for he would see his uncle before he went to
speak with Ina. But presently he was back with us at Taunton, bearing with him a wondrous present
for the bride from Gerent, and good and friendly words for me which promised well for the peace
of the border, at least while he lived. And seeing that he lives yet, with Owen at his right
hand, that has been a long time.

Now Owen comes and goes, and none think it strange that he is most friendly with Ina, for men
have learnt that in the peace of the two realms is happiness.

Presently Jago came back to Norton, for I needed some British adviser at hand, for Evan, faithful
and well trusted as he is as our honest steward, and able to tell me of the needs of the people,
knows nought of the greater laws and ways, and Herewald minded me of him. They had ever been
good friends, and I could fully trust him. So he rebuilt his house at Norton, where the land
lay waste round the old Roman walls which our Saxons hate, and there he is now, helping me
mightily with his knowledge of the Welsh customs, which I do not wish to interfere with more
than needful.

For, in the wisdom of Ina, we did not follow the old plan of driving out and enslaving all
the Welsh folk in this new-won land, as had been the rule in the days of the first coming of
our forefathers when Saxons were few. Those manors whose owners had fallen or would not bide
under the new rule, Ina gave to thanes of his own, and the men of Somerset and Dorset took
what land they would where the freeman had left them, but all others he left under new and
even-handed laws in peace.

So I had to content the men of both races as well as I could, and men say that I wrought well.
At least, I have had no murmuring, and I may deem that they are right.

As one may suppose, there is no more welcome guest in our hall than Thorgils, and at times
he brings Eric or some other Tenby Dane with him if a ship happens to cross hither. Once a
year also he brings Howel, and there is feasting in our hall, Saxon and Norseman, Briton of
the west and Briton from over sea together in all good fellowship.

One evening it came to pass that Thorgils sat in our hall, which was bright with the strange
stuffs that came from the ship of Daffyd, and we talked of the old ship a little, after he
had sung to us. And then I said idly:

"She must be getting old, comrade. When am I to give you that new craft we once spoke of?"

Whereon he looked at Nona suddenly, and said:

"I mind that old promise. But now there is a ship of another sort that will be a better present.
I will ask for that."

"What is it?"

"Build us a church at Watchet, and set there a priest who shall teach us the way of the Christian.
We have seen you forego a blood feud and do well to the innocent man whom our faith would have
bidden you slay, and it is good. We know you for a brave warrior, and your faith has not taken
the might from your heart as we were told it must. Only let the priest be a Saxon."

Then he added, as if thinking aloud:

"Ay, Odin and Thor and the rest of the Asir are far off from us here. Our old faith falls from
us, and we are ready for the new. Let it be soon."

There I think that the hand of Nona wrought, for the Norse folk fairly worshipped her. So it
was not long before that good friend of mine, the Abbot of Glastonbury, found me the right
man, and one day thereafter Nona and I stood sponsors for Thorgils and one or two more whom
we knew well, at the font in the new church which the gold of Mordred built instead of the
ship, and soon all the little town was Christian in more than name.

