We love to see any redness in the vegetation of the temperate zone. It is the color of colors.
This plant speaks to our blood. It asks a bright sun on it to make it show to best advantage,
and it must be seen at this season of the year. On warm hillsides its stems are ripe by the
twenty-third of August. At that date I walked through a beautiful grove of them, six or seven
feet high, on the side of one of our cliffs, where they ripen early. Quite to the ground they
were a deep brilliant purple with a bloom, contrasting with the still clear green leaves. It
appears a rare triumph of Nature to have produced and perfected such a plant, as if this were
enough for a summer. What a perfect maturity it arrives at! It is the emblem of a successful
life concluded by a death not premature, which is an ornament to Nature. What if we were to
mature as perfectly, root and branch, glowing in the midst of our decay, like the Poke! The net philosophical
result of the society's work was to distinguish the essential and the unessential differences
between the opposite parties; the latter were to a great extent cleared up; but the former remained
all the more clearly defined in logical nakedness for the removal of the side issues and the
personal idiosyncrasies which often obscured the main issues. Indeed, when this point was
reached by both parties, when the origins and consequences of the fundamental principles on
either side had been fully discussed and mutual misunderstandings removed to the utmost, so that
only the fundamentals themselves remained in debate, there was nothing left to be done. The
society, in fact, as Huxley expressed it,] "died of too much love."

[Indeed, it is to be noticed that, despite the strong antagonism of principle and deductions from
principle which existed among the members, the rule of mutual toleration was well kept. The state
of feeling after ten years' open struggle seemed likely to produce active
collision between representatives of the opposing schools at close
quarters.] "We all thought it would be a case of Kilkenny cats,"
[said Huxley many years afterwards.] "Hats and coats would be left
in the hall, but there would be no owners left to put them on again."

[But only one flash of the sort was elicited. One of the speakers at an early meeting insisted on
the necessity of avoiding anything like moral disapprobation in the debates. There was a pause;
then W.G. Ward said: "While acquiescing in this condition as a general rule, I think it cannot
be expected that Christian thinkers shall give no sign of the horror with which they would view
the spread of such extreme opinions as those advocated by Mr. Huxley." Another pause; then
Huxley, thus challenged, replied: "As Dr. Ward has spoken, I must in fairness say that it will
be very difficult for me to conceal my feeling as to the intellectual degradation which would
come of the general acceptance of such views as Dr. Ward holds." ("Life of W.G. Ward" by Wilfrid
Ward page 309.)

No amount of argument could have been more effectual
in supporting the claim for mutual toleration than those two speeches,
and thenceforward such forms of criticism were conspicuous by their
absence.

And where honesty of conviction was patent, mutual toleration was often replaced by personal esteem
and regard. "Charity, brotherly love," writes Huxley, "were the chief traits of the Society.
We all expended so much charity, that, had it been money, we should every one have been bankrupt."

The special part played in the society by Huxley was to show that many of the axioms of current
speculation are far from being axiomatic, and that dogmatic assertion
on some of the cardinal points of metaphysic is unwarranted by the
evidence of fact.

To find these seeming axioms set aside as unproven, was, it appears from his "Life," disconcerting
to such members of the society as Cardinal Manning, whose arguments depended on the unquestioned
acceptance of them. It was no doubt the observation of a similar attitude of mind in Mr. Gladstone
towards metaphysical problems which provoked Huxley to reply, when
asked whether Mr. Gladstone was an expert metaphysician--"An expert
in metaphysics? He does not know the meaning of the word."

In addition to his share in the discussions, Huxley contributed three
papers to the society.

A summary of the argument appears in the essay on Hume ("Collected Essays" 6 201 sq.)
 Yet, if he ever favorably attends to them, he may
be overcome by their beauty. Contents

Introduction

Chapter One-Problem of the falling birthrate p.1

It is predicted by Malthus that heightened awareness of one's body and sexual morality has resulted
in the decrease of births everywhere especially in New Zealand. Food production
rates are rising ironically in tandem to the falling birthrates. Malthus
believes that this growing trend has to do with the practice of self-control
and limitations of the individual. There is a rise in those who want to be free from
family obligations and duty.They feel that only the poor would try
to have more births and that good citizens practice self-restraint
in this aspect. It is human nature for the poorer and weaker humans to try
to reproduce to ensure survival of their own kind. However, this
poses a problem to society.

Surgical procedures have been put in place for birth control.

Chapter Two- Population in question p.10

The teachings of Greek philosophers Aristotle and Plato The teaching
of Malthus and his critics

Bonar elaborated on Malthus and his work.

Nitti refuted Malthus on his theory that the increase in food rates
affect the fall in birthrates.

Spencer's pessimistic biological theory that women's childbearing facility determines
the maximum birthrate Moral restraint and its broader definition Laws
of the economy depend on biological factors.

Chapter Three- Falling birthrates p.26

A fruitful and fertile marriage
is necessary to counter the fast decline in birthrates.

The relationship between birthrates and prosperity before and after 1877 in
consideration. The Statistics of Hearts of Oak Friendly Society states
that there is an increasing trend of parents practising birth control.

Chapter Four- Measures taken p.32 The New Zealand lesson should highlight
the importance of family responsibilty to reproduce and prevent the
problem, which is fortunately not too complicated. The issues on hand
include tackling the issue of the abortion practice and the innate
human desire for comfort and happiness. Some large
ones have been conspicuously changing for a week, and some single trees are now very brilliant.
I notice a small one, half a mile off across a meadow, against the green wood-side there, a
far brighter red than the blossoms of any tree in summer, and more conspicuous. I have observed
this tree for several autumns invariably changing earlier than its fellows, just as one tree
ripens its fruit earlier than another. It might serve to mark the season, perhaps. I should
be sorry, if it were cut down. Another way to look at the pictures by William Hunt is in comparison to sculpture. The generalness
of sculpture fills it with dignity, while the
individual nature of painting lowers it to crass portraiture.


At present these burning bushes stand chiefly along the edge of the meadows, or I distinguish
them afar on the hillsides here and there. I'm pretty sure that Napoleon was occupied at Beresina. He had
his Ossian with him however. When was thought lacking in power to jump behind action? At one point
did man not remember to rush like Tyrtaeus to battle, one hand holding a sword the other holding a lyre?
Since the world still carries its own body, it carries a soul.

Monsieur Charles Blanc writes: In order to gain a certain sense of how important
the arts are, it is sufficient to understand where the great world nations
would stand if their monuments that were set up to their faiths and
their works that demonstrated their genius erased from history. It accompanies
people. After death, only their great emanations that they thought
up will stay with us, in other words, while the men die, their art,
or literature, poems, writen or inscribed, or any other achievements
remain. What more remarkable
object can there be in the landscape? Visible for miles, too fair to be believed. If such a
phenomenon occurred but once, it would be handed down by tradition to posterity, and get into
the mythology at last. 

Just after the initial fifteen to twenty minutes during which the desired stocks went through a
roller coaster going up and down, hundreds of people's appetite calmed down a bit and their view
of business have relaxed. I knew that no boat was coming to the island, as the boat on which I sent my letters
to you had not left port since Friday afternoon. Please know that I do write,
and please don't doubt me, as I have never given you reason to.
 His strong individuality, a trait, whether attractive or repulsive, is brought out in even
stronger relief in this volume than the last. This volume is full of interest, and worthy of study and
full of suggestions. Its high energy seemed to creat demands for it to satisfy at the expense of itself. Failure
only made it more persistent as well as success. It was unchillably vivacious, almost boisterous.
Its strenuousness knew no lassitude, and had no need for repose. At play as well as at work, in
excercise as well as mental labor, in all projects purposes, and performances, Dickens has shown
a perpetual state of tension which left no room for reaction.
 And now, in this month of September,
this month of travelling, when men are hastening to the sea-side, or the mountains, or the
lakes, this modest Maple, still without budging an inch, travels in its reputation,--runs up
its scarlet flag on that hillside, which shows that it has finished its summer's work before
all other trees, and withdraws from the contest. The American girl stood with the flower in her hat
surrounded by portraits wondering what would happen next and until
forever.
 By
Oliver Wendell Holmes. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.

The Lawrence
Speaker.

By Phillip Lawrence.
Philadelphia: T.B. Peterson & Brothers.

Memoir of a Huguenot Family.

By Ann Maury. New York: G.P. Putnam & Sons.

Within the Maze. By Mrs. Henry Wood.