They had not been seated three minutes before Linda realized from her knowledge of Eileen that
the shock had been too great, if such a thing might be said of so resourceful a creature as
Eileen. I have followed this of being an Aunt, ever since Age made me uncapable of being a Niece. That'
s a long Time ago, said I; but I believe it had been better for you to pray let me talk now to your Neice
a little. Pray, how many such Aunts have you? Why, truly Sir, said she, I have one at every corner
of the Town, and lodge sometimes to be sipping Well but then, said I, had you not better go to Service then be
burdensome to your Freinds? No, Damn said it, says she with one have
gone a Nurse- keeping, then a Neice- keeping. That' s your mistake
Sir, says she: For as old, is more chearing to my old Spirits, than,
I had rather be my own Mistress, and go to Bed and rise when I will,
then to be curb' d by every Snotty Dame.

I remember once, said she, I met with an old Master, who had a Colts Tooth in his Head lower, and he would
be smugling as I am, I had rather hear and tasting a little Stale Pearl it Cordial or Juleps, or indeed any
Apothecaries slops. Well, said I, you are a. cunning old Woman; but, and
sometimes with another, as I have occasion a young Girl and a brisk Spark
Sing their Song by Turns, than to hear an old Man grunting a Bed, and be oblig'
d to hang my Nose continually over a Close- Stool or a Chamber- Pot.

A Glass of good Ale or. Wine was now and then, or a Dram of cool Nantz me, and snog me in a corner,
tho his Breath was enough to turn my Stomach: but for the sake of a
rusty Shilling now and then, I was content to humour him.


"That is not much of a compliment to us," said Linda slowly. "How do you think we would dare
write them if they were not true?"

This caused such a laugh that everyone felt much easier. Marian turned her dark eyes toward
Peter Morrison.

"Linda and I are busy people," she said. "We waste little time in indirections, so I hope it's
not out of the way for me to ask straightforwardly if you are truly in earnest, about wanting
a home in Lilac Valley?"

"Then I'll have to answer you," said Peter, "that I have an attractive part of the 'makin's'
and I am in deadly earnest about wanting a home somewhere. I am sick in my soul of narrow apartments
and wheels and the rush and roar of the city. There was a time when I ate and drank it. It
was the very breath of life to me. I charged on Broadway like a caterpillar tank charging in
battle; but it is very remarkable how quickly one changes in this world. I have had some success
in my work, and the higher I go, the better work I feel I can do in a quiet place and among
less enervating surroundings. John and I were in college together, roommates, and no doubt
he has told you that we graduated with the same class. He has found his location here and I
would particularly enjoy having a home near him. They tell me there are well-trained servants
to look after a house and care for a bachelor, so I truly feel that if I can find a location
I would like, and if Henry can plan me a house, and I can stretch my purse to cover the investment,
that there is a very large possibility that somewhere within twenty miles of Los Angeles I
may find the home of my dreams."

"One would almost expect," said Marian, "that a writer would say something more original. This
valley is filled with people who came here saying precisely what you have said; and the lure
of the land won them and here they are, shameless boosters of California."

"Why shameless?" inquired Henry Anderson.

"Because California so verifies the wildest statement that can be made concerning her that
one may go the limit of imagination without shame," laughed Marian. "I try in all my dealings
to stick to the straight and narrow path."

"Oh, kid, don't stick to the straight and narrow," broke in Linda, "there's no scenery."

Eileen laid down her fork and stared in white-lipped amazement at the two girls, but she was
utterly incapable of forgetting herself and her neatly arranged plans to have the three cultivated
and attractive young men all to herself for the evening. She realized too, from the satisfaction
betrayed in the glances these men were exchanging among each other, the ease with which they
sat, and the gusto with which they ate the food Katy was deftly serving them, that something
was happening which never had happened at the Strong table since she had presided as its head,
her sole endeavor having been to flatter her guests or to extract flattery for herself from them.

"That is what makes this valley so adorable," said Marian when at last she could make herself
heard. "It is neither straight nor narrow. The wing of a white sea swallow never swept a lovelier
curve on the breast of the ocean than the line of this valley. My mother was the dearest little
woman, and she used to say that this valley was outlined by a gracious gesture from the hand
of God in the dawn of Creation."

Peter Morrison deliberately turned in his chair, his eyes intent on Marian's earnest face.

"You almost make me want to say, in the language of an old hymn I used to hear my mother sing,
'Here will I set up my rest.' With such a name as Lilac Valley and with such a thought in the
heart concerning it, I scarcely feel that there is any use in looking further. How about it,
Henry? Doesn't it sound conclusive to you?"

"It certainly does," answered Henry Anderson, "and from what I could see as we drove in, it
looks as well as it sounds."

Peter Morrison turned to his friend.

"Gilman," he said, "you're a lawyer; you should know the things I'd like to. Are there desirable
homesites still to be found in the valley, and does the inflation of land at the present minute
put it out of my reach?"

"Well, that is on a par with the average question asked a lawyer," answered Gilman, "but part
of it I can answer definitely and at once. I think every acre of land suitable for garden or
field cultivation is taken. I doubt if there is much of the orchard land higher up remaining
and what there is would command a rather stiff price; but if you would be content with some
small plateau at the base of a mountain where you could set any sort of a house and have--say
two or three acres, mostly of sage and boulders and greasewood and yucca around it."

"Why in this world are you talking about stones and sage and greasewood?" cried Linda. "Next
thing they'll be asking about mountain lions and rattlesnakes." 

I am only sorry for my friends, not down on the ground with them. Believe
me!

I cannot conceive a situation so harrowing as that of those poor
children hearing their father declare himself an impostor! a beggar!
a peculator!

In short, to accept an alms from Laura Tinley; so said her pleading look for an interpretation. At
once he disencumbered his shoulders of the enormous wrapper, held
it aloft imperiously, and by main force extinguished Emilia. Coaxing
his promise, she entered the square of white light alone. He wished
to go on his knees to every one of them, and kept telling them of
his love-- the servants all awake and listening! and more gossiping
servants than the Poles always, by the most extraordinary inadvertence,
managed to get, you never heard of!

The world thinks with them. Exquisite intricacy!

They say that some of the servants who were crying outside, positively
were compelled to laugh when they heard her first outbursts.

Now do you understand? Advancing toward Emilia, two figures were seen.
Fancy such a scene, with a dead man in the house!

I am just as willing to go to the Conservatorio and submit to discipline.
Not to dwell on it too long-- for, I have never endured such a shock
as it has given me-- Mrs. Chump left the house, and the next thing
received from her was a lawyer' s letter.

And really, life means that, does it not?" It would have been cruel of me to keep him, for if he is
in love, it' s with Emilia." You are pale." Tracy glanced about for Wilfrid. His companion was Laura
Tinley." Can you do nothing for them?" she said abruptly. This fair woodland court had three broad
oaks, as for gateways; and the moon was above it."

Oh!" she cried;" I can you teach me what to do? There! if you want to
shoot me for my share in that transaction, I' ll give you your chance:
and if you do, my dear Pole, either you must be a tremendous fool,
or that woman' s ten times I have neither a voice, nor can I play
on any instrument.

She seemed to be plucking him from the hands of the dead, and half
recognized that victory over uncontesting rivals claps the laurel-
wreath rather rudely upon our heads.

Watch the result. Her hand was lying softly on her throat. He has consulted doctors with regard to
your voice, and the only excuse, dear Miss Belloni, for my visit to you to- day, is my dews, and
all the young cleverer than I thought. Emilia pressed a hand to her bosom:"
my heart feels hollow, and my friends cry out in it. And perhaps now natural
delicacy may render it difficult for them to..."

He cried, poor unhappy man, real tears!

I reply, something considerable, if by great sacrifice he gets to truth--
gets to that oneness of feeling which is the truthful impulse.

Stop him."" Have you tried it?" said Georgiana, to produce a diversion
from the other topic.

Indeed; he patted his shoulder and elbow to remove the soil of his
short contact with earth, and tried a cigar: but the first taste
of the smoke sickened his lips."

Will you not help them?-- they want money." green of the fresh season shone
in white jewels." You must not blame her for that," Georgiana continued.
It' s your sister, my good fellow, who gave me my dismissal. It said:" I am not
able to see of the object of the expedition. Not that love should
diminish manliness or gains by so doing; but travelling to love by the ways
of Sentiment desire that any misunderstanding between you may be
cleared.

My Philosopher' s meaning is plain, and, as usual, good; but not even I, who have less reason to laugh
at him than anybody, can gravely accept the juxtaposition of suffering and cigars. Business
men say she is not to blame: women may cherish their own opinion. Emilia
was becoming more critical of this tone the more she listened."

Your voice?" It is out of my power to do what you ask me to do." It was
true that the absence of any rivalry for the possession of the man
took much of his sweetness from him.

I would-- indeed I will-- do my best my utmost; only, how even to introduce
the subject to him? I think-- I think my voice has come back." She
related what she had just heard, ending breathlessly:" Georgey! my
dear! will you help them?"

Wilfrid here took upon himself to reproach her for a certain negligence
of worldly interests.

The captain turned to his horse, saying," Oh! Well!"" But to- day we are here." For-- so I hear--
they used to-- and may still-- nourish a-- what I called-- silly--
though not in unkindness-- hostility to our family-- me.

I cannot
let him suffer."" Oh! beastly bathos!" What is my influence? The lady
reddened. She had been suspicious at first of another sentiment in the
background, but was now quite convinced of the simplicity of Emilia'
s design."

Not you," returned Emilia, sighing; and in an under- breath," me--
will you lend it to me?

This wages too absurd. I shall repay it. As they advanced amid the icy hush,
so hard and instant was the ring of the earth under them, their steps
sounded as if expected.

Two thousand pounds would help them. Emilia lost no time in running straight to Georgiana, who
was busy at her writing- desk.

Laura laughed. I do not know, that under any circumstances, I could have
given into your hands so large a sum as this that you ask for.

I scarcely feel the floor; no misery touches me. And I have been studying
all this while. I have taught him to feel that; so that in his devotion
to this cause he may follow every impulse he has, and still there
is his sister to fall back on.

I would accept a part, and step on the boards within a week, and
be certain to succeed.

Imagination almost refuses to conjure it up!

Only, dear friend, believe me, that I ask for money now, because
I am sure I can repay it.

But I need not tell you that." Georgiana closed her desk." Is it
not preposterous to suppose that I can offer them assistance of
such a kind?" She said:" I will tell you exactly how I am placed." No;
but believe me when I tell you, it must be. My brother has a fortune;
and I have also a little property." Here we are down in Avernus in
a twinkling!"

All that has gone has been devoted to relieve your countrymen, and further the interests he
has nearest at heart. She perceived I that it was necessarily positive,
and like all minds framed to resolve to action, there was an instantaneous
change of the current of her thoughts in another direction.

I will try
to get help for them elsewhere." Emilia' s lip quivered. The sky, set with
very dim distant stars, was in grey light round a small brilliant moon."
Lady Gosstre thinks much the same. Nothing would stop him from humiliating
himself! CHAPTER LVII By the park- gates that evening, Wilfrid received
a letter from the hands of Tracy Runningbrook.

I am his other self., seemed to pant audibly.

She turned to Tracy following:" There is no doubt of it." He speaks of you
constantly. She declared I have not lost an hour. My child! see what
I have been doing."

Poor Augustus! his entire reputation for evil is owing to her black paint- brush. Georgiana took
a scroll from her desk, and laid it under Emilia' eyes.

Expectancy sharpened the stillness to Tracy' s ears.

If Merthyr is ruined, he will require every farthing that I have for
our common subsistence. I know that he will make the cost double, and I
feel like a miser about money. And poor Mr. Pole confessed that he had touched
her money. I can hardly put you now. Wilfrid could not repress a
despondent shrug. Here and there, intense silver dazzled their eyes.

I cannot tell what by a thirst to hear the adorable girl, who stood there patiently, with her face
lifted soft in moonlight. Tracy had the thought that they were calling for Emilia to commence;
that it was nature preluding the divine human voice, weaving her spell for it. And then the blood
thrilled along his veins, as if one more than mortal had touched
him. Wilfrid worked through all the intervolutions, and nearly forgot fills
me with this delight, but I know I am able to repay any sum. Many
were soon in song, even the pauses were sweet with them.

Tracy had no knowledge the case more plainly. With which, and Emilia' s assurance that she would
write, and herself make the appointment, Laura retired, in high glee at the prospect of winning
the gratitude of the inscrutable millionaire.

Emilia sighed lightly, and seemed not much cast down by the refusal.

What is left to him, I believe, he has now thrown into the gulf."
They' re not so easily played with, my dear fellow." Postpone our
going for a week. You have heard Lady Charlotte call him a fanatic."

Georgiana was pleased by Emilia' s manner of taking the rebuff; but
it required an altercation before she consented to this postponement;
she nodded her head finally in anger.

I love him, and prove my love by trusting him, and wish to prove my love by aiding
him, and being always at hand to succour, as I should be now, but that
I obeyed his dearest wish in resting here to watch over you.

Emilia and Tracy Runningbrook were threading their way toward a lane
over which great oak branches intervolved; thence under larches all
with glittering sleeves, and among spiky brambles, with the purple
leaf and the crimson frosted.

When I tell you that I will see you before I leave England, I insist upon
your believing me. That woman did her best to compromise your sister with me on
board the yacht. Emilia"-- was the simple signature, perused over and over
again by this maddened lover, under the flitting gate- lamp, after
Tracy had left him." Wilfrid," she said suddenly," will you persuade
Cornelia not to wear black?" What was it but miserable cowardice, he thought,
that prevented him from getting the peace poor Barrett had found?
Why, look here," he relinquished his ordinary drawl;" I' ll tell you
something, which you may put down in my favour or not-- just as you like.
And, moreover, there is a little piece of action in store."

One might almost say that you do not know him, Miss Belloni. Then he stood for a moment as a man in a new
world." Yes, if you wish it," he replied.

Tracy' s fiery imagination set him throbbing, as to the voice of the verified spirit of the place.
He was her squire simply; had pitched on a sudden into an enamoured condition,
and walked beside her, caring little whither he was led, so that
she left him not.

Wilfrid had just enough of the coin to pay his footing. Wilfrid had
walked half way to Brookfield, when the longing to look upon the Richford
chamber- windows stirred so hotly within him that he returned to the gates.
You are tempted to ask what the value of him will be by the time that
he turns out pure metal?"

You know Mr. Pericles," said Emilia," he can do the mischief-- can he not? At last, he will stand
high above them that have not suffered. The captain gave heel to his horse, hearing no more. Merthyr would. At
the risk of breaking our partnership for ever, I intervene. Because, I have just heard-- Miss Belloni
will forgive me!-- the origin of it; and tidings coming that you were in the neighbourhood, I
thought-- hoped that I might be the means of re- uniting two evidently destined to be of essential service
to one another. He flung himself on a wayside bank, grovelling,
to rise again calm and quite ready for society, upon the proper application
of the clothes- brush. He was verily fining himself down. He saw Captain
Gambier issuing on horseback from under the lamp. A nightingale began
the charm.

The
captain leaned forward to look at him before he obeyed the summons,
All self- control had abandoned Wilfrid in the rage he felt at Gambier'
s having seen Emilia, and the jealous suspicion that she had failed
to keep her appointment for the like reason."

By Jove! that' s an odd question," said the captain, at once taking
his ground."

Why do you come here?" he said, hoarsely. Then listen, dear. Captain
Gambier murmured quietly," Every other woman?" and smoothed his horse'
s neck."

Then, my darling, my one prayer!" she said. You speak like a youngster."

Adela confirmed to Wilfrid what Gambier had spoken; and that it was
she who had given him his dismissal. To- morrow night we shall have
left England." Being mounted, he observed:" My dear Pole, you might
have sung out all you had to say.

This was human speech at his elbow, uttered in some stupefied amazement. The
reason why was in a web so complicated, that, to have divined what hung on
Cornelia' s wearing of black, showed a rare sagacity and perception
of character on the little lady' s part.

She nodded, but frowned lovingly at the shout he raised, and he understood
that there was haply some plot to be worked out.

You' re in the hands of an infernally clever woman, who does me the
honour to wish to see my blood on carpet, I believe; but if this
is her scheme, it' s not worthy of her ability.

He was the more willing to magnify them, inasmuch as he thereby strengthened
his hope that liberty would follow the speaking of the talismanic
name of Eltham to Lady Charlotte, alone.

She arranged the preliminaries capitally. Intolerable anguish weakened
his limbs.

I have no head for seeing anybody now.

I can' t tell you how, and won' t. Of course, I wouldn' t if I could; but I
have sense enough to admire a very charming person, and I did the
only honourable thing in my power.

Every space of earth lifted clear to her; the woodland listened; and
in the bright silence the nightingales sang loud. We had a little common
sense conversation-- in which she shines. Ranged on two sides were
rows of larches, and forward, fit to plume a dais, a clump of tall
firs stood with a flowing silver fir to right and left, and the white
stems of the birch- tree shining from among them.

I must be extremely delicate, and calculate upon what they would
accept from me.

Emilia enjoined him to rest where he was, and wait for her on that
spot like a faithful sentinel, whatsoever ensued. Good night." The rejection
of his cigar.""

I am the only protector of my sister' s reputation," said Wilfrid," and, by heaven! if you have cast
her over to be the common talk, you shall meet me." She called him by his name," Augustus," in
a kindly tone, remarking, that Lady Charlotte had persecuted him dreadfully. I have been calculating
here." There is no man so easily' hooked,' as Mrs. Bayruffle would say, as he, though he has but eight
hundred a year: barely enough to live on. But, oh, Miss Belloni! is it not terrible?" In what
possible way can I do so?" said Georgiana. She laughed and blushed with humorous
satisfaction; and, on second thoughts, he changed his opinion, telling
her that he wished he could win his freedom as she had done. The
coldness of Emilia' s name so briefly given, concentrated every fire
in his heart. This strange sensation of disgust with familiar comforting
habits, fixed him in perplexity, till a rushing of wild thoughts
and hopes from brain to heart, heart to brain, gave him insight, and
he perceived his state, and that for all he held to in our life he
was dependent upon another; which is virtually the curse of love."

You will, positively?"

Am I to understand that you' ve been playing with my sister, as you do with every other woman?""
I think we have brains," he said softly, on his pillow, upon a review of the beggared aspect of his
family; and he went to sleep with a smile on his face. The frost on
the edges of the brown- leaved bracken gave a faint colour."

But you
can get released," she cried; and ultimately counselled him:" Mention
the name of Lord Eltham before her once, when you are alone.

Are not you the person? Only, don' t be clumsy. I want to send it immediately,
and then, good- bye to England."

For hours he cudgelled his brains to know why she desired Cornelia not
to wear black, and when the light broke in on him he laughed like a jolly
youth till for an instant. Oh, yes! As thus:-- Sir Twickenham Pryme
is the most sensitive of men to ridicule and vulgar tattle: he has
continued to visit the none house, learning by degrees to prefer me,
but still too chivalrous to withdraw his claim to Cornelia, notwithstanding
that he has seen indications of her not too absolute devotion towards
him:-- I have let him become aware that I have broken with Captain
Gambier( whose income is eight hundred a year merely), for the sake
of a higher attachment: now, since the catastrophe, he can with ease
make it appear to the world that I was his choice from the first,
seeing that Cornelia will assuredly make no manner of objection:--
but, if she, with foolish sentimental persistence, assumes the garb
of sorrow, then Sir Twickenham' s ears will tingle; for he will retire
altogether; he will not dare to place himself in a position which
will lend a colour to the gossip, that jilted by one sister, he flew
for consolation to the other; jilted, too, for the mere memory of
a dead man! an additional insult!

No one paid any attention to Mrs. Chump until she started from her
chair.

It seemed to him long before he knew that Emilia' s voice was in
the air.

She began pretty well.

He had come to look upon her as the real barrier between himself
and Emilia.

I don' t like the prospect of your alliance with Lady Charlotte."

CHAPTER LVIII A sharp breath of air had passed along the, attaining to the passion bit by bit, does full
surely take from us the strength of our nature, as if( which is probable)
at every step we paid fee to move forward.

They came upon a clearing in the wood where a tournament of knights
might have been held. I envy the man that marries her, but she denies
me such luck.

The thought in Laura' s shocked grey eyes was," They have done little enough for you," i. e., toward
making you a lady. Moss and the frosted brown fern were its flooring. Then the stillness, like one
folding up a precious jewel, her immediate willingness to meet Mr. Pericles. Tracy divined her.
I' ll meet you; I have no objection to excitement. The open space was quite luminous in the
middle of those three deep walls of shadow. You know where to find me. For, just before-- only just
before, he was smiling and talking largely. Presently she stood upon a low mound, so that her whole
figure was distinct, while the moon made her features visible." I have reckoned our expenses as far
as Turin, and have only consented to take Lady Gosstre' s valet for
courier, just to please her. The captain remarked that it was a fine
night, and prepared to ride off, but Wilfrid requested him to dismount,
and his voice had the unmistakeable ring in it by which a man that
there must be no trifling. He was answered by another." This night
seems made for me!" said Emilia. He was seized his wretchedness in
admiration of his sister' s mental endowments. In such a place, at
such a time, there is no wizardry like a woman' s voice.

Laura' s shrill laugh resounded.

She sang with a stately fervour, letting the notes flow from her
breast, while both her arms hung loose, and not a gesture escaped
her."

And he passed along the road," adds the Philosopher," a weaker man, a stronger lover. He heard nothing
but Emilia, and scarce felt that it was she, or that tears were on his eyelids, till her voice sank
richly, deep into the bosom of the woods.

Emilia
said eagerly," This way," and ran under one of the oaks." She' s not alone!"
Go to your sister, and if she complains of my behaviour, I' ll meet
you.

In an extremity of wrath, Tracy turned about to curse the intruder,
and discerned Wilfrid, eagerly bent forward on the other side of the
oak by which he leaned.

He could not tell her how much. Mr. Pericles in his bearskin was easily
to be distinguished. But, hearing the word of pity, she did not stop to be critical.
The Greek moved at rapid strides, and coming near upon Emilia, raised his hands
as in exclamation. The truth was that his nerves suddenly gave way. Emilia
had gained in force and fulness.

She looked into Georgiana' s eyes. Tracy groaned in his heart. When
I say my brother has a fortune, he has the remains of one. There was
evidently quick talk going on among the three, after which Emilia,
heavily weighted, walked a little apart with Mr. Pericles, who looked
lean and lank beside her, and gesticulated in his wildest manner.

Emilia behind what she felt for her friends, had a dim comprehension of the meaning of their old disgust
at Laura, during this narration. The latter was not visible, but, stepping up the bank of sand
and moss, appeared a lady in shawl and hat, in whom he recognized
Lady Charlotte.

 Linda went her way silently and alone. She was acquainted with everyone living
in Lilac Valley, frank and friendly with all of them; aside from Marian she had no intimate
friend. Not another girl in the valley cared to follow Linda's pursuits or to cultivate the
acquaintance of the breeched, booted girl, constantly devoting herself to outdoor study with
her father during his lifetime, afterward alone.

For an instant after Marian had boarded her train Linda stood looking at it, her heart so heavy
that it pained acutely. She had not said one word to make Marian feel that she did not want
her to go. Not once had she put forward the argument that Marian's going would leave her to
depend entirely for human sympathy upon the cook, and her guardian, also administrator of the
Strong estate, John Gilman. So long as he was Marian's friend Linda had admired John Gilman.
She had gone to him for some measure of the companionship she had missed in losing her father.
Since Gilman had allowed himself to be captivated by Eileen, Linda had harbored a feeling concerning
him almost of contempt. Linda was so familiar with every move that Eileen made, so thoroughly
understood that there was a motive back of her every action, that she could not see why John
Gilman, having known her from childhood, should not understand her also. 

She had been dodging backwards and forwards trying to avoid her husband,
and yet unwilling to leave the farmer' s side. The holt though thick
was small and a fox had not much chance but by breaking. A very skilful
young surgeon from Brotherton was on the spot almost as soon as the
lady was out of the water, and declared that she had dislocated her
shoulder.

He knew that he was being ill- treated, but knowing, also, that he could not avoid it, he went away
without a further word. Now, Mr. Bottomley, if you' ll only keep yourself a little steady, you'
ll find yourself the better for it at the finish." the slip at the last
moment."

Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation. And many of the pack recognised
the well- known sound as plainly as the master, for you might hear the hounds rustling through the covert
as they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old leader
had found for them.

Then
the husband went and hung over his wife, but his wife, when she saw him, found it convenient to faint
again." That' s out, any way. They must find a door on which to carry
her.

Mr. Houghton saw it, and didn' t follow. Mr. Bottomley was a young man from London, who was often
addressed after this fashion, was always very unhappy for a few minutes, and then again forgot
it in his excitement. I shall do well enough, and do you go on with your hunting." Sir Simon, after
expressions of deep sorrow had, of course, gone on after his hounds. Then the farmer went away feeling
perhaps that his best chance of keeping clear from his too loving
friend was to make the pace so fast that she should not be able quite
to catch him.

They had just crossed a road, and wherever there was a road there, she thought, he would certainly
be. You would not be any good at nursing." Have a care, ma' am," said Price, as Mrs. Houghton
canoned against him as they both landed, or we shall come to grief together. Isn' t it odd that
men should change so?" Mr. Knox and Dick were soon on the spot,
and Mrs. Houghton was extracted."

Certainly not." George Scruby had led the way, as becomes a huntsman, and a score or more had followed
him over the big fence.

Alas, though he rode gallantly at the brook and did get over it,
there was not much to talk about; for, unfortunately, he left his horse
behind him in the water." Why not? But she allowed him to rush with
her through the mud."

The holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes. How was I to know she didn'
t know nothing about it!"

Mrs. Houghton looked round, fearing every moment that her husband would come up. But Lady Mountfencer'
s nag was fast too, was fast and had a will of his own."

Can' t we get round the other side, Mr. big Price?" she said. You' ll
see else.""

But there' s Mr. Houghton on the road," she whispered.

The poor man turned round and went away home, alone, feeling himself
to be thoroughly disgraced."

Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his thinking it was certainly sport that a young
wife should ride to hounds in opposition to an old husband. If my
horse hadn' t gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that moment hadn'
t gone so very slow, I shouldn' t have come to grief, and nobody would
have known anything about it."

I wonder when he' ll come and see me.

Mr. Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side gate in the Manor
Cross wall, which made the great house nearer than Cross Hall."

He' ll be back in them Manor Cross woods."

You won' t be any better nor here." Some men mindful of the big brook
and knowing the whereabouts of the bridge, among whom was Mr. Houghton,
kept very much to the right and were soon out of the run altogether.

The park of Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and
the desirable grass country away to Bamham Moor were all to the right.
The Marchioness groaned.

Had the fox done as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself, the leap would have been from
grass to grass; but now it must be from plough to plough, if taken
at all.

It would not make you jealous, I hope." Sir Simon, when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading
down to the Brotherton road.

Mr. Sawyer"-- Mr. Sawyer was the very clever young surgeon from Brotherton--" Mr. Sawyer says that
she ought not to be removed for at any rate a week."" That' s about as good as a dead' un," said George,
as he landed a yard or two to the right. But there were still a dozen riders pressing on, and
among them were the farmer and his devoted follower,-- and a gentleman in black. George, who hated Mr.
Bottomley, grunted out his malediction, even though no one could hear
him. As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon' s notice, he had scurried on
across the plough, and being both light and indiscreet, had enjoyed the
heartfelt pleasure of passing George Scruby.

Let us give praise where praise is due, and acknowledge that young
Bottomley was the first at the brook,-- and the first over it."

He' ll soon be at the bottom of that," said George, meaning to imply
in horsey phrase that the rider, if he rode over ploughed ground
after that fashion, would soon come to the end of his steed' s power."

As I didn' t go, you need not scold me, George." To have done a thing that he could talk about was the
over the big ditch;" have a care charm that Bottomley found in hunting. Price had been going a
little to the left, and when they reached the wood was as forward as
any one.

The poor beast going with a rush off the plough, came with her neck
and shoulders against the opposite bank He had made his way up, resolved
to stop his wife, but she gave him, and shot his rider well on to
the dry land.

It is not often that a master of hounds rides for glory, and Sir Simon
had long since left all that to younger men. Just put the pillow
a little under me.

But a rider, at any rate a young rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman unless he is
very sure of himself, of his horse, and of the run of the hounds. During this time her head
was drooping, and her eyes were closed, and she was apparently senseless." Dear Mary" did not
dislike the occupation, which was soon found to comprise that of being head nurse to the invalid.
Mrs. Houghton' s horse was going very strong with her. She was not only
generally hurt, but she was a cousin, also. But Mrs. Houghton rode us though
the whole thing was to be accomplished by a rush, and her horse,
true to the manner of horses, insisted on following in the direct
track of the one who had led him so far.

But the horse was self- willed, and she was light; and in truth the heaviness of the ground would have
been nothing to him had he been fairly well ridden."

He' s only a cub," said the master. I like him very well, and I always mean to be good to him;
that is, if he lets me have my own way.

She had been near enough to see that a man fell at the brook, and then
she saw also that the huntsman got over, and also the gentleman in
black. And what' s more, I never told Mr. Houghton so. The tumble did
not scare her at all, as others coming after the unfortunate one
had succeeded.

At first, he seemed inclined to stay, but after he had seen his morrow.
What the mischief will Mr. Houghton say to me when he comes up!"

She had not rid herself of her husband for nothing.

Lady Sarah, who was generally regarded as the arbiter of the very slender hospitalities exercised
at Manor Cross, was not at all well pleased at being forced to entertain Mrs. Houghton, whom she
especially disliked; but, circumstanced as they were, there was no alternative. It was too late
now to speak to her again, but he did not fear for his own horse if she
would only give him room.

There is always a doctor in the field,-- sent there by some benignity
of providence,-- who always rides forward enough to be near to accidents,
but never so forward as to be in front of them.

And she attempted to obey the order." I should die if I were made to lie here
without speaking to any one. On he went, however, and struck Price' s horse
on the quarter so violently as to upset that animal, as well as himself.
She had been put to bed with a dislocated arm, and had already suffered
much in having it reduced, before the matter could be even discussed.

The two animals were both in the brook, and when the farmer was able to look round, he saw that
the lady was out of sight. The Marchioness whined piteously. It was very good advice, and is
very often given; but both ladies and gentlemen, whose hands are a little doubtful, sometimes find
themselves unable to follow it." Part of it is no doubt, sir," said Price, looking his assailant
full in the face, but almost sobbing as he spoke," and I' m very
unhappy about it."

Doesn'
t it seem like a thing in a story that I should be brought to Lord George'
s house, and that he was my lover only quite the other day?" Price had come
back through the water with the woman in his arms, and the two horses
were still floundering about, unattended.

In spite of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting,
which had partly been so, Mrs. Houghton had had force enough to tell
her husband that he would himself be inexpressibly bored by remaining
at Manor Cross, and that his presence would inexpressibly bore" all
those dowdy old women," as she called the ladies of the house."

The horse has jammed her against the bank under water." The next man' s larches."
No, indeed."

Yes; over was the gentleman in black, who took it in a stand, and who
really seemed to know what he was about."

Do you look to the horses, Dick. By this time there were a dozen men round them, and Dick and others
were able to attend to the ill- used nags. There ain' t no reason why they
should get their death of cold."" Yes; it' s her shoulder," continued
Price. Now we' re right; here to the left."

They should see that she also could jump the river. He steadied the animal
a yard or two from the margin as he came to the headland that ran down
the side of the brook, and then took his leap. It has been hinted that
this arrangement is professional rather than providential; but the
present writer, having given his mind to the investigation of the
matter, is inclined to think that it arises from the general fitness
of things."

It' s all your fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though
he meant to strike him with his whip.

Once up the covert and once back again the animal went, and then Dick, the watchful whip, holding his
hand up to his face, holloaed him away. There was an antiquity about every thing at Manor Cross,
which was already crushing the spirit of the young bride. Her hat had gone;
she had been under the water; she was covered with mud; she was still
senseless, and of course she could neither ride nor walk."

Ladies don' t break their arms," said Mary." You shouldn' t say that."" He don' t know that country
yet," said the huntsman."

You oughtn' t to have gone on to- day, ought you?" But how to get her there? So saying Mr. Price
jumped over a low hedge, and Mrs. Houghton followed him, almost too
closely.

When they got to the door all the ladies were there to receive them. In the meantime she was carried
to a labourer' s cottage by the roadside on a hurdle, and there the
party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton.

All public institutions have, or ought to have, their doctor, but in no institution is the doctor
so invariably at hand, just when he is wanted, as in the hunting
field."

I' m blessed if she ain' t dead," said the whip, pale as death himself."
Wait a moment, ma' am; wait a moment. At about two o' clock the cortège
with the carriage reached the great house.

I' ll give you a lead over the ditch, but don' t ride quite so close, ma'
am." Mr. Knox, as belonging to Manor Cross, and Price, and, of course, the doctor,
with Mr. Houghton and Mr. Houghton' s groom, accompanied the carriage.
First a hurdle was wife he declared that, as there was no danger,
he would not intrude upon Lady Brotherton, but would, if permitted,
ride over and see how his wife was progressing on the suggested, and
then Dick was sent galloping up to the house for a carriage."

I don' t think we want to see anything more of you," said Mr. Houghton
to the farmer."

Oh- h- h," ejaculated the farmer, just touching the end of his nose with his finger and moving
gently on through the wood. were ever so many suggestions." It might have been you as well as Mrs.
Houghton." But Bottomley, if he could only be seen to jump the big brook before any one else, would
have happiness enough for a month."

But you were discontented because you were prevented," said he, determined to have the last word.
Mr. Houghton' s name had always been held in great displeasure by
the ladies at Manor Cross.

MRS. HOUGHTON. Price, as he came near the water, knew that he had plenty to do, and knew also how very
close to him the woman was. Price, who was a thoroughly good horseman,
was knocked off, but got on to the bank as Bottomley had done. And
then it was of course felt that she could not be turned out of the
house.

More than once the farmer cautioned her to give him a pull over the
plough."

We must ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah said. He was in the water immediately
himself, but before he made the plunge he had resolved that he never
again would give a lady a lead till he knew whether she could ride.

CHAPTER IX." I don' t think we can help it. If the fox was making
for the park he must be right in that direction. But the worst of it
was that though they were not heading for their good country, still
there was the brook, Pugsby brook, to be taken.

But the evil became less than had been anticipated, by Mr. Houghton' s refusal. She was aware
that there were three or four other men behind her, and she was determined that they should not pass
her." That is a relief," said Lady Sarah to her mother; and yet Lady Sarah had been almost urgent in assuring
Mr. Houghton that they would be delighted to have him."

It' s her shoulder, Mr. Knox," said Price.

She had begged that it might be so. It was not without a cause that
Lord Mountfencer had parted with so good a horse out of his stable.

You' d only kill yourself with ennui."

Now through the gate, ma' am, and then on as an arrow for the little
wood.

He had assented; but finding her to be well enough to express her
opinion as to the desirability of his absence strongly, thought that
she was well enough, also, to be rebuked for her late disobedience."

Well,-- yes,-- no. I don' t know that I' m changed at all." Oh! Jeffrey, are
you going to scold me," she said," while I am in such a state as
this!" and then, again, she almost fainted."

Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon," let them settle.

But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady George came up
to give her her dinner."

Besides, what' s the use?" she said;" I' ve got to lay here for a
certain time. She had known" dear Mary" so long, and was so warmly
attached to her. There were some who afterwards asserted that this was
the Dean, but the Dean was never heard to boast of the performance.

She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron, and had felt that there was something amiss in her
conversation when they had met at the deanery; but she was brighter than the ladies at Manor
Cross, was affectionate in her manner, and was at any rate young." After all," he said to himself,"
if you come to fault it was she nigh killed me, not me her. Now for Pugsby."" Now, Mary, I
think you' ll own that I was right," Lord George said to his wife, as soon as the sufferer had
been put quietly to bed. There What was to be done?" Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton,
disregarding, apparently altogether, the pain of her shoulder;" I declare, I shall begin to be
glad of the accident!" Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall, which was
about a mile and a half distant." Why not, if I feel it?" H-- sh!" said Mr. Knox;" she' s not
dead, but I' m afraid she' s hurt." The idea had never occurred
to Mary, and now that it was suggested to her, she did not like it."

He ain' t making for Pugsby' s after all," said Price to George Scruby. It need hardly be said that the
two things are very different. s But now they were at Thrupp I should
like it.

And yet, he was very, very fond of me once. Just see me over before you
let him take his jump."" I suppose you are changed, too," said Mary,--
hardly knowing what to say. He began, therefore, to say a word. I never
told Lord George that I loved him. It seemed to her to be lovely. I
don' t pretend to be very virtuous, and of course I married for an
income.

As she had never yet had an accident she knew nothing of fear, and
she was beyond measure excited.

I' m not going to be scolded, and he need not think so." They could get her there in little over a
mile." He won' t hang here, Sir Simon," said the farmer, as the master came up," he never does." Mrs.
Houghton followed him, and as they got out on the other side, the fox was again away. Wouldn' t
you like to ride?" I think he' s quite as much in love with you as ever he was with me. But are
not you exerting yourself too much?" When he got to the bank he
made his effort to jump high, but had got no footing for a fair spring.

This was ill- natured, and the horse in truth was not hurt. Now I' m all right.


"If I show you the books," said Eileen, "if I divide what is left after the bills are paid
so that you say yourself that it is fair, what more can you ask?"

Linda hesitated.

"What I ought to do is exactly what I have said I would do," she said tersely, "but if you
are going to put it on that basis I have no desire to hurt you or humiliate you in public.
If you do that, I can't see that I have any reason to complain, so we'll call it a bargain
and we'll say no more about it until the first of the month, unless the spirit moves you, after
taking a good square look at me, to produce some shoes and a school dress instanter."

"I'll see what I can do," answered Eileen.

"All right then," said Linda. "See you at dinner."

She went to her own room, slipped off her school dress, brushed her hair, and put on the skirt
and blouse she had worn the previous evening, these being the only extra clothing she possessed.
As she straightened her hair she looked at herself intently.

"My, aren't you coming on!" she said to the figure in the glass. "Dressing for dinner! First
thing you know you'll be a perfect lady."

CHAPTER VI. Jane Meredith

When Eileen came down to dinner that evening Linda understood at a glance that an effort was
to be made to efface thoroughly from the mind of John Gilman all memory of the Eileen of the
previous evening. She had decided on redressing her hair, while she wore one of her most becoming
and attractive gowns. To Linda and Katy during the dinner she was simply charming. Having said
what she wanted to say and received the assurance she desired, Linda accepted her advances
cordially and displayed such charming proclivities herself that Eileen began covertly to watch
her, and as she watched there slowly grew in her brain the conviction that something had happened
to Linda. At once she began studying deeply in an effort to learn what it might be. There were
three paramount things in Eileen's cosmos that could happen to a girl: She could have lovely
clothing. Linda did not have it. She could have money and influential friends. Since Marian's
going Linda had practically no friend; she was merely acquainted with almost everyone living
in Lilac Valley. She could have a lover. Linda had none. But stay! Eileen's thought halted
at the suggestion. Maybe she had! She had been left completely, to her own devices when she
was not wanted about the house. She had been mingling with hundreds of boys and girls in high
school. She might have met some man repeatedly on the street cars, going to and from school.
In school she might have attracted the son of some wealthy and influential family; which was
the only kind of son Eileen chose to consider in connection with Linda. Through Eileen's brain
ran bits of the conversation of the previous evening. She recalled that the men she had intended
should spend the evening waiting on her and paying her pretty compliments had spent it eating
like hungry men, laughing and jesting with Linda and Marian, giving every evidence of a satisfaction
with their entertainment that never had been evinced with the best brand of attractions she
had to offer.

Eileen was willing to concede that Marian Thorne had been a beautiful girl, and she had known,
previous to the disaster, that it was quite as likely that any man might admire Marian's flashing
dark beauty as her blonde loveliness. Between them then it would have been merely a question
of taste on the part of the man. Since Marian's dark head had turned ashen, Eileen had simply
eliminated her at one sweep. That white hair would brand Marian anywhere as an old woman. Very
likely no man ever would want to marry her. Eileen was sure she would not want to if she were
a man. No wonder John Gilman had ceased to be attracted by a girl's face with a grandmother
setting.

As for Linda, Eileen never had considered her at all except as a convenience to serve her own
purposes. Last night she had learned that Linda had a brain, that she had wit, that she could
say things to which men of the world listened with interest. She began to watch Linda. She
appraised with deepest envy the dark hair curling naturally on her temples. She wondered how
hair that curled naturally could be so thick and heavy, and she thought what a crown of glory
would adorn Linda's head when the day came to coil those long dark braids around it and fasten
them with flashing pins. She drew some satisfaction from the sunburned face and lean figure
before her, but it was not satisfaction of soul-sustaining quality. There was beginning to
be something disquieting about Linda. A roundness was creeping over her lean frame; a glow
was beginning to color her lips and cheek bones; a dewy look could be surprised in her dark
eyes occasionally. She had the effect of a creature with something yeasty bottled inside it
that was beginning to ferment and might effervesce at any minute. Eileen had been so surprised
the previous evening and again before dinner, that she made up her mind that hereafter one
might expect almost anything from Linda. She would no longer follow a suggestion unless the
suggestion accorded with her sense of right and justice. It was barely possible that it might
be required to please her inclinations. Eileen's mind worked with unbelievable swiftness. She
tore at her subject like a vulture tearing at a feast, and like a vulture she reached the vitals
swiftly. She prefaced her question with a dry laugh. Then she leaned forward and asked softly:
"Linda, dear, why haven't you told me?"

Linda's eyes were so clear and honest as they met Eileen's that she almost hesitated.

"A little more explicit, please," said the girl quietly.

"WHO IS HE?" asked Eileen abruptly.

"Oh, I haven't narrowed to an individual," said Linda largely "You have noticed a flock of
boys following me from school and hanging around the front door? I have such hosts to choose
from that it's going to take a particularly splendid knight on a snow-white charger--I think
'charger' is the proper word--to capture my young affections."

Eileen was satisfied. There wasn't any he. She might for a short time yet cut Linda's finances
to the extreme limit. Whenever a man appeared on the horizon she would be forced to make a
division at least approaching equality.

Linda followed Eileen to the living room and sat down with a book until John Gilman arrived.
She had a desire to study him for a few minutes. She was going to write Marian a letter that
night. She wanted to know if she could honestly tell her that Gilman appeared lonely and seemed
to miss her. Katy had no chance to answer the bell when it rang. Eileen was in the hall. Linda
could not tell what was happening from the murmur of voices. Presently John and Eileen entered
the room, and as Linda greeted him she did have the impression that he appeared unusually thoughtful
and worried. She sat for half an hour, taking slight part in the conversation. Then she excused
herself and went to her room, and as she went she knew that she could not honestly write Marian
what she had hoped, for in thirty minutes by the clock Eileen's blandishments had worked, and
John Gilman was looking at her as if she were the most exquisite and desirable creature in
existence. 

And many of the pack recognised the well- known sound as plainly as the master, for you might
hear the hounds rustling through the covert as they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old
leader had found for them.

The holt though thick was small and a fox had not much chance but by breaking. Once up the covert
and once back again the animal went, and then Dick, the watchful whip, holding his hand up to his
face, holloaed him away." Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon," let them settle. Now, Mr. Bottomley,
if you' ll only keep yourself a little steady, you' ll find yourself the better for it at the finish."
Mr. Bottomley was a young man from London, who was often addressed after this fashion, was always
very unhappy for a few minutes, and then again forgot it in his excitement."

Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation. She had been dodging backwards and
forwards trying to avoid her husband, and yet unwilling to leave
the farmer' s side."

Wait a moment, ma' am; wait a moment.

Now we' re right; here to the left." So saying Mr. Price jumped over a low hedge, and Mrs. Houghton
followed him, almost too closely. Mr. Houghton saw it, and didn' t follow. He had made his way up,
resolved to stop his wife, but she gave him the slip at the last moment." Now through the gate,
ma' am, and then on straight as an arrow for the little wood. I' ll give you a lead over the
ditch, but don' t ride quite so close, ma' am."

Then the farmer went away feeling perhaps that his best chance of keeping clear from his too
loving friend was to make the pace so fast that she should not be able
quite to catch him. But Lady Mountfencer' s nag was fast too, was fast
and had a will of his own.

It was not without a cause that Lord Mountfencer had parted with so good a horse out of his stable."
Have a care, ma' am," said Price, as Mrs. Houghton canoned against
him as they both landed over the big ditch;" have a care, or we shall
come to grief together.

Just see me over before you let him take his jump." It was very good advice, and is very often given;
but both ladies and gentlemen, whose hands are a little doubtful, sometimes find themselves unable
to follow it. But now they were at Thrupp' s larches. George Scruby had led the way, as becomes a huntsman,
and a score or more had followed him over the big fence.

Price had been going a little to the left, and when they reached
the wood was as forward as any one."

He
won' t hang here, Sir Simon," said the farmer, as the master came
up," he never does.""

He' s only a cub," said the master."

The holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes.

Now for Pugsby."

Mrs. Houghton looked round, fearing every moment that most her husband would come up. They had just crossed a
road, and wherever there was a road there, she thought, he would
certainly be."

Can' t
we get round the other side, Mr. Price?" she said."

You won' t be any better nor here.""

But there' s Mr. Houghton on the road," she whispered."

Oh- h- h," ejaculated the farmer, just touching the end of his nose with
his finger and moving gently on through the wood."

Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his thinking
it was certainly sport that a young wife should ride to hounds in
opposition to an old husband.

Mrs. Houghton followed him, and as they got out on the other side, the fox was again away." He
ain' t making for Pugsby' s after all," said Price to George Scruby."

He don' t know that country yet," said the huntsman." He' ll be back in them Manor Cross woods. You'
ll see else."

The park of Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and the
desirable grass country away to Bamham Moor were all to the right.

Some men mindful of the big brook and knowing the whereabouts of the bridge, among whom was Mr. Houghton,
kept very much to the right and were soon out of the run altogether. But the for their good
country, still there was the brook, Pugsby brook, to be taken at the brook, and then she saw also
that the huntsman got over, and also the gentleman in black.

It seemed to her to be lovely. The tumble did not scare her at all, as
others coming after the unfortunate one had succeeded. She was aware
that there were three or four other men behind her, and she was determined
that they should not pass her.

They should. Had the fox done as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself, the leap would
have been from grass to grass; but now it must be from plough to
plough, if taken at all.

It need hardly be said that the two things are very different. Sir Simon,
when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading down to the Brotherton
road. If the fox was making for the park he must be right in that
direction.

It is not often that a master of hounds rides for glory, and Sir Simon had long since left all
that to younger men.

But there were still a dozen riders pressing on, and among them were
the farmer and his devoted follower,-- and a gentleman in black.

Let us give praise where praise is due, and acknowledge that young Bottomley was the first at
the brook,-- and the first over it. As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon' s notice, he had scurried
on across the plough, and being both light and indiscreet, had enjoyed
the heartfelt pleasure of passing George Scruby.

George, who hated Mr. Bottomley, grunted out his malediction even though
no one could hear him." He' soon be at the bottom of that," said George,
meaning to imply in horsey phrase that the rider, if he rode over
ploughed ground after that fashion, would soon come to the end of
his steed' s power.

But Bottomley, if he could only be seen to jump the big brook before any one else, would have happiness
enough for a month.

To have done a thing that he could talk about was the charm that Bottomley found in hunting.
Alas, though he rode gallantly at the brook and did get over it, there was not much to talk about;
for, unfortunately, he left his horse behind him in the water. poor beast going with a rush off the
plough, came with her neck and shoulders against the opposite bank, and shot his rider well on
to the dry land."

That' s about as good as a dead' un," said George, as he landed a yard or two to the right. This
was ill- natured, and the horse in truth was not hurt.

But a rider, at any rate a young rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman unless he is very
sure of himself, of his horse, and of the run of the hounds. The next man over was the gentleman
in black, who took it in a stand, and who really seemed to know what he was about. There were
some who afterwards asserted that this was the Dean, but the Dean was never heard to boast
of the performance Mrs. Houghton' s horse was going very strong with
her.

More than once the farmer cautioned her to give him a pull over the
plough.

And she attempted to obey the order. But the horse was self- willed,
and she was light; and in truth the heaviness of the ground would
have been nothing to him had he been fairly well ridden.

But she allowed him to rush with her through the mud. As she had never yet had an accident she
knew nothing of fear, and she was beyond measure excited. She had been near enough to see that man
fell see that she also could jump the river. She had not rid herself of her husband for nothing.
Price, as he came near the water, knew that he had plenty to do, and knew also how very close
to him the woman was. It was too late now to speak to her again, but he did not fear for his
own horse if she would only give him room. He steadied the animal a yard or two from the margin
as he came to the headland that ran down the side of the brook, and then took his leap. But Mrs. Houghton
rode us though the whole thing was to be accomplished by a rush, and her
horse, true to the manner of horses, insisted on following in the
direct track of the one who had led him so far.

When he got to the bank he made his effort to jump high, but had got no footing for a fair spring.
On he went, however, and struck Price' s horse on the quarter so violently
as to upset that animal, as well as himself.

Price, who was a thoroughly good horseman, was knocked off, but got on to the bank as Bottomley had
done. The two animals were both in the brook, and when the farmer was able to look round, he saw
that the lady was out of sight.

He was in the water immediately himself, but before he made the plunge he had resolved that he never
again would give a lady a lead till he knew whether she could ride. Mr. Knox and Dick were soon
on the spot, and Mrs. Houghton was extracted." I' m blessed if she ain' t dead," said the whip, pale as
death himself." H-- sh!" said Mr. Knox;" she' s not dead, but I' m afraid she' s hurt." Price had
come back through the water with the woman in his arms, and the two
horses were still floundering about, unattended."

It' s her shoulder, Mr. Knox," said Price." The horse has jammed her
against the bank under water."

During this time her head was drooping, and her eyes were closed, and she was apparently senseless."
Do you look to the horses, Dick.

There ain' t no reason why they should get their death of cold." By this time there were a
dozen men round them, and Dick and others were able to attend to
the ill- used nags."

Yes,-- no. I don' t know that I' m changed at all. I never told Lord George; it' s her shoulder," continued
Price." That' s out, any way.

What the mischief will Mr. Houghton say to me when he comes up!" There is always a doctor in the
field,-- sent there by some benignity of providence,-- who always rides forward enough to be near
to accidents, but never so forward as to is be in front of them.
It has been hinted that this arrangement is professional rather than
providential; but the present writer, having given his mind to the
investigation of the matter, is inclined to think that it arises from
the general fitness of things.

All public institutions have, or ought to have, their doctor, but
in no institution is the doctor so invariably at hand, just when
he is wanted, as in the hunting field.

A very skilful young surgeon from Brotherton was on the spot almost as soon as if the lady was out
of the water, and declared that she had dislocated her shoulder. What was to be done? Her
hat had gone; she had been under the water; she was covered with mud; she was still senseless,
and of course she could neither ride nor walk.

There were ever so many suggestions. Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall, which
was about a mile and a half distant. Mr. Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side gate
in the Manor Cross wall, which made the great house nearer than Cross Hall. They could get her
there in little over a mile. But how to get her there? They must find a door on which to carry
her.

First a hurdle was suggested, and then Dick was sent galloping up to the house for a carriage. In
the meantime she was carried to a labourer' s cottage by the roadside on a hurdle, and there
the party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton." It' s all your
fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though he meant to
strike him with his whip."

Part of it is no, sir," said Price, looking his assailant full in
the face, but almost sobbing as he spoke," and I' m very unhappy about
it."

Then the husband went and hung over his wife, but his wife, when she saw him, found it convenient
to faint again. At about two o' clock the cortège with the carriage reached the great house. Sir Simon,
after expressions of deep sorrow had, of course, gone on after his hounds.
Mr. Knox, as belonging to Manor Cross, and Price, and, of course,
the doctor, with Mr. Houghton and Mr Houghton' s groom, accompanied
the carriage.

When
they got to the door all the ladies were there to receive them."
I don' t think we want to see anything more of you," said Mr. Houghton
to the farmer.

The poor man turned round and went away home, alone, feeling himself
to be thoroughly disgraced."

After all," he
said to himself," if you come to it was she nigh killed me, not me her. How was I to know she didn'
t know nothing about it!"" Now, Mary, I think you' ll own that I was right," Lord George said to his
wife, as soon as the sufferer had been put quietly to bed."

Ladies
don' t always break their arms," said Mary." It might have been you as well as Mrs. Houghton."" As I
didn' t go, you need he would himself be inexpressibly bored by remaining at Manor Cross, and not scold
me, George."" But you were discontented because you were prevented," said he, determined to have
the last word. CHAPTER IX. MRS. HOUGHTON.

Lady Sarah, who was generally regarded as the arbiter of the very slender hospitalities exercised at Manor
Cross, was not at all well pleased at being forced to entertain Mrs. Houghton, whom she especially disliked;
but, circumstanced as they were, there was no alternative. She had been put to bed with a dislocated
arm, and had already suffered much in having it reduced, before the matter could be even discussed. And then
it was of course felt that she could not be turned out of the house.

She was not only generally hurt, but she was a cousin, also." We must
ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah said. The Marchioness whined piteously.
Mr. Houghton' s name had always been held in great displeasure by the ladies
at Manor Cross." I don' t think we can help it.

Mr. Sawyer"-- Mr. Sawyer was the very clever young surgeon from Brotherton--" Mr. Sawyer says
that she ought not to be removed for at any rate a week."

The Marchioness groaned.

But the evil became less than had been anticipated, by Mr. Houghton'
s refusal.

At first, he seemed inclined to stay, but after he had seen his wife
he declared that, as there was no danger, he would not intrude upon
Lady Brotherton, but would, if permitted, ride over and see how his
wife was progressing on the morrow."

That is a relief," said Lady Sarah to her mother; and yet Lady Sarah
had been almost urgent in assuring Mr. Houghton that they would be
delighted to have him.

In spite
of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting, had
partly been so, Mrs. Houghton had had force enough to tell her husband
that that his presence would inexpressibly bore" all those dowdy old
women it," as she called the ladies of the house."

Besides, what s the use?" she said;"

I' ve got to lay here for a certain time. You would not be any good at nursing. You' d only kill
yourself with ennui. I shall do well enough, and do you go on with your hunting." He had assented; but finding
her to be well enough to express her opinion as to the desirability
of his absence strongly, thought that she was well enough, also, to be
rebuked for her late disobedience. He began, therefore, to say a
word."

Oh! Jeffrey, are you going to scold me," she said," while I am in such a state as this!" and then, again, she
almost fainted. He knew that he was being ill- treated, but knowing, also, that he could not
avoid it, he went away without a further word. But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady
George came up to give her her dinner. She had begged that it might be so. She had known" dear
Mary" so long, and was so warmly attached to her." Dear Mary" did not dislike the occupation, which was soon
found to comprise that of being head nurse worst of it was that though they were not heading to the
invalid. She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron, and had felt that there was something amiss
in her conversation when they had met at the deanery; but she was brighter than the ladies at Manor
Cross, was affectionate in her manner, and was at any rate young. There was an antiquity about every
thing at Manor Cross, which was already crushing the spirit of the
young bride."

Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton, disregarding, apparently, the pain of her shoulder;"
I declare, I shall begin to be glad of the accident!"" You shouldn' t say that."" Why not, if I feel
it? Doesn' t it seem like a thing in a story that I should be brought to Lord George' s house, and
that he was my lover only quite the other day?" The idea had never occurred to Mary, and now that it
was suggested to her, she did not like it." I wonder when he' ll come and see me. It would not make
you jealous, I hope."" Certainly not."" No, indeed. I think he' s quite as much in love with you as
ever he was with me. And yet, he was very, very fond of me once. Isn' t it odd that men should change
so?"" I suppose you are changed, too," said Mary,-- hardly knowing what
to say." Well,-- yes that I loved him. And what' s more, I never told
Mr. Houghton so. I don' t pretend to be very virtuous, and of course
I married for an income. I like him very well, and I always mean
to be good to him; that is, if he lets me have my own way. I' m not
going to be scolded, and he need not think.""

You oughtn' t to have gone on to- day, ought you?"" Why not? If my horse
hadn' t gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that moment hadn' t
gone so very slow, I shouldn' t have come to grief, and nobody would
have known anything about it. Wouldn' t you like to ride?"" Yes; I should like
it. But are not you exerting yourself too much?"" I should die if
I were made to lie here without speaking to any one. Just put the pillow
a little under me. Now I' m all right.


He turned up his coat collar, thrust his hands in his pockets, and swore softly. Looking straight
ahead of him, he should have seen a stretch of level sidewalk, bordered on one hand by lacy,
tropical foliage, on the other, by sheets of level green lawn, broken everywhere by the uprising
boles of great trees, clumps of rare vines, and rows of darkened homes, attractive in architectural
'design' vine covered, hushed for the night. What he really saw was a small plateau, sun illumined,
at the foot of a mountain across the valley, where the lilac wall was the bluest, where the
sun shone slightly more golden than anywhere else in the valley, where huge live oaks outstretched
rugged arms, where the air had a tang of salt, a tinge of sage, an odor of orange, shot through
with snowy coolness, thrilled with bird song, and the laughing chuckle of a big spring breaking
from the foot of the mountain. They had left the road and followed a narrow, screened path
by which they came unexpectedly into this opening. They had stood upon it in wordless enchantment,
looking down the slope beneath it, across the peace of the valley, to the blue ranges beyond.

"Just where are we?" Peter Morrison had asked at last.

John Gilman had been looking at a view which included Eileen. She lifted her face, flushed
and exquisite, to Peter Morrison and answered in a breathless undertone, yet John had distinctly
heard her:

"How wonderful it would be if we were at your house. Oh, I envy the woman who shares this with
you!"

It had not been anything in particular, yet all day it had teased John Gilman's sensibilities.
He felt ashamed of himself for not being more enthusiastic as he searched records and helped
to locate the owner of that particular spot. But' have me do to cure you Sir, said she? Do, Madam,'
worth in it: I' ll be Judg' d by.( Her Husband coming then into the
Shop) the Gentleman perceiving how cunningly she turn' d off her Discourse,
told her he did otherways dispos' d of: And there a are young Ladies
enough that are single, that are more worthy of you.

I question not Madam, replyed he, but I might have choice of Mistresses:
But,' tis you only that have wounded me, and therefore' tis you entirely
that can believe she had She' nt wrong' d him much, and he was satisfied.
And then shewing her what he had bought, and what he paid for it,
he told him his had us' d him very well: And so he took his leave
of' em; and went to his old Crone Bawd, and told her what had past.

You may depend upon it, says the Bawd, that sh' ll comply; but you must Fee her pretty high, or
it won' t do. This made him Shrug; for tho he had a mind to enjoy her, said he! Grant me the
Enjoyment of your Love, for that alone can give me Ease. Why, said she, wou' d you have me wrong my
Husband s Bed? Shou' d I do so, how do tis the common Theam that you are pleas' d to entertain
our Sex withal, tho there be nothing in it. However,' tis methinks a great Peice of Folly to
love at that rate, where you can have Katy no hopes of Enjoyment: for I am effect my Care.-- What
wou' d you you think he' d take we it? E' en bad enough, I do believe, said he; if you shou' d
let; I have sold you a Pen he was not willing to be at too much
charge Which the Old Bawd, told him he cou' d not hope to carry her
under a Present of at least Fifty Guinea' s; but yet, says she, if
you will give me but Five, I' ll warrant you shall gain your Point
without being at any Charge at all: Make but that out, says he, and
I' ll promise you him know it; but sure there' s no necessity of that.

And if you keep your Counsel, I shall take nothing from him he miss.--
Hold, Sir, says she, you talk as if we were already both agreed;
but you shall find there will be two Words to the making of that Bargain.

Besides you dont-- But here' s my Husband coming, says the Jilt--
Indeed Sir the five Guinea'. s as soon as e' er I have my Husband bask'
d her: No, Sir, says the Bawd, I' ll have my Money in hand; for you
know, we never trust.

 Her gayest laugh bubbled
clear from the joy peak of her soul.

"Katy," she said, "if you had lain awake all night trying to say something that would particularly
please me, you couldn't have done better. That was a quaint little phrase and a true little
phrase, and I know a little spot that it will fit exactly. What am I doing today? Well, several
things, Katy. First, anything you need about the house. Next, I am going to empty the billiard
room and sell some of the excess furniture of the library, and with the returns I am going
to buy me a rug and a table and some tools to work with, so I won't have to clutter up my bedroom
with my lessons and things I bring in that I want to save. And then I am going to sell the
technical stuff from the library and use that money where it will be of greatest advantage
to me. And then, Katy, I am going to manicure the Bear Cat and I am going to drive it again."

Linda hesitated. Katy stood very still, thinking intently, but finally she said: "That's all
right; ye have got good common sense; your nerves are steady; your pa drilled ye fine. And many
of the recognised the well- known sound as plainly as the master, for you might hear the hounds rustling
through the covert as be they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old leader had found
for them. The holt though thick was small and a fox had not much chance but by breaking. Once
up the covert and once back again the animal went, and then Dick, the watchful whip, holding
his hand up to his face, holloaed him away."

Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon," let them settle. Now, Mr. Bottomley, if you' ll only keep yourself
a little steady, you' ll find yourself the better for it at the finish." Mr. Bottomley was a young man
from London, who was often addressed after this fashion, was always very unhappy for a few minutes,
and then again forgot it in his excitement."

Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation. She had been dodging backwards and
forwards trying to avoid her husband, and yet unwilling to leave
the farmer' s side."

Wait a moment, ma' am; wait a moment. Now we' re right; here to the
left."

So saying Mr. Price jumped over a low hedge, and Mrs. Houghton followed him, almost too closely.
Mr. Houghton saw it, and didn' t follow. He had made his way up, resolved
to stop his wife, changed, too," said Mary,-- hardly knowing what to
say." Well,-- yes,-- no. I don' gave him the slip at the last moment."
Now through the gate, ma' am, and then on straight as an arrow for
the little wood.

I' ll give you a lead over the ditch, but don' t ride quite so close, ma' am." Then the farmer
went away feeling perhaps that his best chance of keeping clear from his too loving friend
was to make the pace so fast that she should not be able quite to
catch him.

But Lady Mountfencer' s nag was fast too, was fast and had a will of
his own. It was not without a cause that Lord Mountfencer had parted
with so good a horse out of his stable shall come to grief together. Just
see me over before you let him take his jump." It was very good advice, and
is very often given; but both ladies and gentlemen, whose hands are
a little doubtful, sometimes find themselves unable to follow it.

But now they were at Thrupp' s larches.

George had led the way, as becomes a huntsman, and a score or more had followed him over the big
fence. Price had been going a little to the left, and when they reached
the wood was as forward as any one."

He won' t hang here, Sir Simon," said the farmer, as the master came up," he never does."" He' s only a
cub," said the master." The holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes. Now
for Pugsby."

Mrs. Houghton looked round, fearing every moment that her husband
would come up.

They had just crossed a road, and wherever there was a road there,
she thought, would certainly be."

Can' t we get round the other side, Mr. Price?" she said." You won'
t be any better nor here.""

But there' s Mr. Houghton on the road," she whispered." Oh- h- h,"
ejaculated the farmer, just touching the end of his nose with his
finger and moving gently on through the wood."

Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his thinking
it was certainly sport that a young wife ride to hounds in opposition
to an old husband.

Mrs. Houghton
followed him, and as they got out on the other side, the fox was
again away."

He ain' t making for Pugsby' s after all," said Price to George Scruby."

He don' t know that country yet," said the huntsman."

He' ll be back in them Manor Cross woods. You' ll see else." The park
of Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and the desirable
grass country away to Bamham Moor were all to the right.

Some men mindful of the big brook and knowing the whereabouts of the bridge, among whom was Mr. Houghton,
kept very much to the right and were soon out of the run altogether. But the worst of it was that
though they were not heading for their good country, still there was the brook, Pugsby brook,
to be taken.

Had the fox done as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself,
the leap would have been from grass to grass; but now it must be from
plough to plough, if taken at all.

It need hardly be said that the two things are very different.

Sir Simon, when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading down to
the Brotherton road of. If the fox was making for the park he must
be right in that direction.

It is not often that a master of hounds rides for glory, and Sir Simon had long since left
all that to younger men. But there were still a dozen riders pressing
on, and among them were the farmer and his devoted follower,-- and a gentleman
in black. Let us give praise where praise is due, and acknowledge
that young Bottomley was the first at the brook,-- and the first
over it.

As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon' s notice, he had scurried on across
the plough and being both light and indiscreet, had enjoyed the heartfelt
pleasure of passing George Scruby.

George, who hated Mr. Bottomley, grunted out his malediction, even though no one could hear him."
He' ll soon be at the bottom of that," said George, meaning to imply
in horsey phrase that the rider, if he rode over ploughed ground
after that fashion, would soon come to the end of his steed' s power.

But Bottomley, if he could only be seen to jump the big brook before
any one else, would have happiness enough for a month.

To have done a thing that he could talk about was the charm that Bottomley
found in hunting.

Alas, though he rode gallantly at the brook and did get over it, there
was not much to talk about; for, unfortunately, he left his horse
behind him in the water.

The poor beast going with a rush off the plough, came with her neck and
shoulders against the opposite bank, and shot his rider well on to the dry
land."' s about as good as a dead' un," said George, as he landed a
yard or two to the right. This was ill- natured, and the horse in
truth was not hurt.

But a rider, at any rate a young rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman unless he is very sure
of himself, of his horse, and of the run of the hounds. The next man over was the gentleman in black,
who took it in a stand, and who really seemed to know what he was about. bird There were some
who afterwards asserted that this was the Dean, but the Dean was never heard to boast of the performance.
Mrs. Houghton' s horse was going very strong with her. More than once the farmer cautioned her to give
him a pull over the plough. And she attempted to obey the order. But the horse was self- willed, and
she was light; and in truth the heaviness of the ground would have been nothing to him had
he been fairly well ridden.

But she allowed him to rush with her through the mud. As she had never yet had an accident she knew nothing of fear,
and she was beyond measure excited. She had been near enough to see that a man fell at the brook,
and then she saw also that the huntsman got over, and also the gentleman in black. It seemed
to."

Have a care, ma' am," said Price, as Mrs. Houghton canoned against him as
they both landed over the big ditch;" have a care, or we her to be lovely.
The tumble did not scare her at all, as others coming after the
unfortunate one had succeeded.

She was aware that there were three or four other men behind her,
and she was determined that they should not pass her.

They should see that she also could jump the river. She had not rid herself of her husband for nothing.
Price, as he came near the water, knew that he had plenty to do, and
knew also how very close to him the woman was. It was too late now to
speak to her again, but he did not fear for his own horse if she
would only give him room.

He steadied the animal a yard or two from the margin as he came
to the headland that ran down the side of the brook, and then took his
leap.

But Mrs. Houghton rode us though the whole thing was to be accomplished by a rush, and her horse, true
to the manner of horses, insisted on following in the direct track of the one who had led him so far.
When he got to the bank he made his effort to jump high, but had got no footing for a fair spring.
On he went, however, and struck Price' s horse on the quarter so t know that I' m changed at all. I
never told Lord George that I loved him.

And what' s more, I never told Mr. Houghton so. I don' t pretend to but she
violently as to upset that animal, as well as himself. Price, who was
a thoroughly good horseman, was knocked off, but got on to the bank
as Bottomley had done. The two animals were both in the brook, and when
the farmer was able to look round, he saw that the lady was out of
sight.

He was in the water immediately himself, but before he made the plunge
he had resolved that he never again would give a lady a lead till
he knew whether she could ride.

Mr. Knox and Dick were soon on the spot, and Mrs. Houghton was extracted." I' m blessed if she ain'
t dead," said the whip, pale as death himself." H-- sh!" said Mr. Knox;"
she' s not dead, but I' m afraid she' s hurt."

Price had come back through the water with the woman in his arms, and
the two horses were still floundering about, unattended."

It' s her shoulder, Mr. Knox," said Price." The horse has jammed her against the bank under
water." During this time her head was drooping, and her eyes were closed, and she was apparently
senseless." Do you look to the horses, Dick. There ain' t no reason why they should get their
death of cold."

By this time there were a dozen men round them, and Dick and others
were able to attend to the ill- used nags."

Yes; it' s her shoulder," continued Price." That' s out, any way. What the mischief will Mr. Houghton
say to me when he comes up!" There is always a doctor in the field,--
sent there by some benignity of providence,-- who always rides forward enough to
be near to accidents, but never so forward as to be in front of them.
It has been hinted that this arrangement is professional rather than
providential; but the present writer, having given his mind to the
investigation of the matter, is inclined to think that it arises from
the general fitness of things.

All public institutions have, or ought to have, their doctor, but
in no institution is the doctor so invariably at hand, just when he
is wanted, as in the hunting field. A very skilful young surgeon from
Brotherton was on the spot almost as soon as the lady was out of
so many suggestions.

Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall, which
was about a mile and a half distant.

Mr. Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side gate in the Manor
Cross wall, which made the great house nearer than Cross Hall. They could
get her there in little over a mile.

But how to get her there? They must find a door on which to carry her.
First a hurdle was suggested, and then Dick was sent galloping up
to the house for a carriage. In the meantime she was carried to
a labourer' s cottage by the roadside on a hurdle, and there the
party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton."

It' s all your fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though
he meant to strike him with his whip." Part of it is no doubt, sir,"
said Price, looking his assailant full in the face, but almost sobbing
as he spoke," and I' m very unhappy about it."

Then the husband went and hung over his wife, but his wife, when she
saw him, found it convenient to faint again. At about two o' clock
the cortège the water, and declared that she had dislocated her shoulder.

What was to be done? Her hat had gone; she had been under the water; she
was covered with mud; she was still senseless, and of course she could
neither ride nor walk. There were ever with the carriage reached
the great house.

Sir Simon, after expressions of deep sorrow had, of course, gone on
after his hounds.

Mr. Knox, as belonging to Manor Cross, and Price, and, of course, the doctor, with Mr. Houghton and Mr.
big Houghton' s groom, accompanied the carriage. When they got to the door all the ladies were
there to receive them." I don' t think we want to see anything more of
you," said Mr. Houghton to the farmer. The poor man turned round and
went off home, alone, feeling himself to be thoroughly disgraced."

After all," he said to himself," if you come to fault it was she nigh killed
me, not me her. How was I to know she didn' t know nothing about
it!""

Now, Mary, I think you' ll own that I was right," Lord George said
to his wife, as soon as the sufferer had been put quietly to bed."

Ladies don' t always break their arms," said Mary." It might have
been you as well as Mrs. Houghton."" As I didn' t go, you need not
scold me, George."" But you were discontented because you were prevented,"
said he, determined to have the last word. CHAPTER IX. MRS. HOUGHTON. Lady Sarah,
who was generally regarded as the arbiter of the very slender hospitalities
exercised at Manor Cross, was not at all well pleased at being forced
to entertain Mrs. Houghton, whom she especially disliked; but, circumstanced
as they were, there was no alternative.

She had been put to bed with a dislocated arm, and had already suffered
much in having it reduced, before the matter could be even discussed.
And then it was of course felt that she could not be turned out of
the house.

She was not only generally hurt, but she was a cousin, also." We must ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah
said. The Marchioness whined piteously. Mr. Houghton' s name had always
been held in great displeasure by the ladies at Manor Cross." I don'
t think we can help it. Mr. Sawyer"-- Mr. Sawyer was the very clever young
surgeon from Brotherton--" Mr. Sawyer says that she ought not to be
removed for at any rate a week."

The Marchioness groaned. But the evil became less than had been anticipated, by Mr. Houghton'
s refusal.

At first, he seemed inclined to stay, but after he had seen his wife he declared that, as there
was no danger, he would not intrude upon Lady Brotherton, but would,
if permitted, ride over and see how his wife was progressing on the
morrow."

That is a relief," said Lady Sarah to her mother; and yet Lady Sarah
had been almost urgent in assuring Mr. Houghton that they would be
delighted to have him.

In spite of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting,
which had partly been so, Mrs. Houghton had had force enough to tell
her husband that he would himself be inexpressibly bored by remaining
at Manor structure, and that his presence would inexpressibly bore"
all those dowdy old women," as she called the ladies of the house."

Besides, what' s the use?" she said;"

I' ve got to lay here for a certain time. You would not be any good at nursing.
You' d only kill yourself with ennui.

I shall well enough, and do you go on with your hunting."

He had assented; but make finding her to be well enough to express
her opinion as to the desirability of his absence strongly, thought
that she was well enough, also, to be rebuked for her late disobedience.

He began, therefore, to say a word." Oh! Jeffrey, are you going to scold me," she said," while I am in
such a state as this!" and then, again, she almost fainted. He knew that
he was being ill- treated, but knowing, also, that he could not avoid
it, he went away without a further word.

But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady George came up to give her her dinner. She had begged
that it might be so. She had known" dear Mary" so long, and was so warmly
attached to her."

Dear Mary" did not dislike the occupation, which was soon found to comprise that of being head nurse
to the invalid. She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron,
and had felt that there was something amiss in her conversation when
they had met at the deanery; but she was brighter than the ladies at Manor
Cross, was affectionate in her manner, and was at any rate young.
There was an antiquity about every thing at Manor Cross, which was
already crushing the spirit of the young bride."

Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton, disregarding, apparently altogether,
the pain of her shoulder;"

I declare, I shall begin to be glad of the accident!"" You shouldn' t say that."" Why not, if I
feel it? Doesn' t it seem like a thing in a story that I should be brought
to Lord George' s house, and that he was my lover only quite the other
day?"

The idea had never occurred to Mary, and now that it was suggested to
her, she did not like it." I wonder when he' ll come and see me. It
would not make you jealous, I hope.""

Certainly not."" No, indeed. I think he' s quite as much in love with you
as ever he was with me. And yet, he was very, very fond of me once.
Isn' t it odd that men should change so?"" I suppose you are be very
virtuous, and of course I married for an income. I like him very well,
and I always mean to be good to him; that is, if he the lets me have
my own way.

I' m not going to be scolded, and he need not think so."" You oughtn'
t to have gone on to- day, ought you?""

Why not? If my horse hadn' t gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that moment hadn' t gone so very
slow, I, shouldn' t have come to grief, and nobody would have known
anything about it.

Wouldn'
t you like to ride?"" Yes; I should like it. But are not you exerting
yourself too much?"" I should die if I were made to lie here without
speaking to any one. Just put the pillow a little under me.

Now I' before m all right.


"Come to think of it," said Linda, "I have small experience with anybody's cooking except Katy's
and my own, but so far as I know, she can't very well be beaten."

Carefully she headed the car into the garage adjoining the salesrooms. There she had an ovation.
The manager and several of the men remembered her. The whole force clustered around the Bear
Cat and began to examine it, and comment on it, and Linda climbed out and asked to have the
carburetor adjusted, while the mechanic put on a pair of tires. When everything was satisfactory,
she backed to the street, and after a few blocks of experimental driving, she headed for the
Automobile Club to arrange for her license and then turned straight toward Multiflores Canyon,
but she did not fail to call Donald Whiting's attention to every beauty of Lilac Valley as
they passed through. When they had reached a long level stretch of roadway leading to the canyon,
Linda glanced obliquely at the boy beside her.

"It all comes back as natural as breathing," she said. "I couldn't forget it any more than
I could forget how to walk, or to swim. Sit tight. I am going to step on the gas for a bit,
just for old sake's sake."

"That's all right," said Donald, taking off his hat and giving his head a toss so that the
wind might have full play through his hair. "But remember our tires are not safe. Better not
go the limit until we get rid of these old ones, and have a new set all around."

Linda settled back in her seat, took a firm grip on the wheel, and started down the broad,
smooth highway, gradually increasing the speed. The color rushed to her cheeks. Her eyes were
gleaming.

"Listen to it purr!" she cried to Donald. "If you hear it begin to growl, tell me."

And then for a few minutes they rode like birds on the path of the wind. When they approached
the entrance to the canyon, gradually Linda slowed down. She turned an exultant flashing face
to Donald Whiting.

"That was a whizzer," said the boy. "I'll tell you I don't know what I'd give to have a car
like this for my very own. I'll bet not another girl in Los Angeles has a car that can go like
that."

"And I don't believe I have any business with it," said Linda; "but since circumstances make
it mine, I am going to keep it and I am going to drive it."

"Of course you are," said Donald emphatically. "Don't you ever let anybody fool you out of
this car, because if they wanted to, it would be just because they are jealous to think they
haven't one that will go as fast."

"There's not the slightest possibility of my giving it up so long as I can make the engine
turn over," she said. "I told you how Father always took me around with him, and there's nothing
in this world I am so sure of as I am sure that I am spoiled for a house cat. I have probably
less feminine sophistication than any girl of my age in the world, and I probably know more
about camping and fishing and the scientific why and wherefore of all outdoors than most of
them. I just naturally had such a heavenly time with Daddy that it never has hurt my feelings
to be left out of any dance or party that ever was given. The one thing that has hurt is the
isolation. Since I lost Daddy I haven't anyone but Katy. Sometimes, when I see a couple of
nice, interesting girls visiting with their heads together, a great feeling of envy wells up
in my soul, and I wish with all my heart that I had such a friend."

"Ever try to make one?" asked Donald. "There are mighty fine girls in the high school."

"I have seen several that I thought I would like to be friends with," said Linda, "but I am
so lacking in feminine graces that I haven't known how to make advances, in the first place,
and I haven't had the courage, in the second."

"I wish my sister were not so much older than you," said Donald.

"How old is your sister?" inquired Linda.

"She will be twenty-three next birthday," said Donald; "and of all the nice girls you ever
saw, she is the queen."

"Yes," she assented, "I am sure I have heard your sister mentioned. But didn't you tell me
she had been reared for society?"

"No, I did not," said Donald emphatically. "I told you Mother j believed in dressing her as
the majority of other girls were dressed, but I didn't say she had been reared for society.
She has been reared with an eye single to making a well-dressed, cultured, and gracious woman."

"I call that fine," said Linda. "Makes me envious of you. Now forget everything except your
eyes and tell me what you see. Have you ever been here before?"

"I have been through a few times before, but seems to me I | never saw it looking quite so pretty."

Linda drove carefully, but presently Donald uttered an exclamation as she swerved from the
road and started down what appeared to be quite a steep embankment and headed straight for
the stream. 

At this period of her life two things acting together, and both acting
in opposition to her anticipations of life, surprised the young bride
not a little."

You want me to do it, papa?"

But on this occasion she did not accept him. I want you to please yourself.
And Mary, at his instance, also cared for these things. I am prepared
for that." Indeed, though she made some tenderly cautious inquiries,
she could not find what were his amusements."

And you, papa?" These seemed to be the matters on which he was most intent. I shall get on well
enough. Lord George, who couldn' t hunt, and wouldn' t dance, and didn' t care for mountains, could
enquire with some zeal how much wages a peasant might earn, and what
he would do with it when earned.

I shall not put you on bread and water, and lock you up in the garret
either if you accept him, or if you reject him."

There was something in this which grated on her feelings. To the ladies
of the house he never wrote at all, though Lady Sarah favoured him.
Of all this poor Mary knew nothing at all; but yet she did not like being
told of marquises and hedges where her heart was concerned. But now
that the thing was settled he could assure her of his thorough satisfaction.

Walking seemed to be his chief relaxation, and she was always ready to walk with him. She must
get rid of that fair young man with the silky moustache and the darling dimple.
The Dean had seen him and had absolutely fixed a time.

Of course it was necessary that there should be arrangements as to money between him and Lord George, in which
he was very frank. And though she had thought of nothing else since she had first heard of Lord
George' s intention, though she had laid awake struggling to of
make up her mind, she had reached no conclusion.

That she was, in truth, very good, no one either at Manor Cross or in Brotherton
or any of the parishes around ever doubted. He would not take his mother'
s money, nor lessen his own small patrimony; but now it seemed that
wealth was showered on him from the deanery.

She was forty years old, and looked as though she were fifty and
wished to be thought sixty.

Though she had been slightly hurt when told that marquises did not grow on
hedges, still she knew that it would be much to be a marchioness. And
so they were married.

There was a nobility about him beyond that of his family. He was himself
so poor, and at the same time so scrupulous, that he had lacked funds
sufficient for the usual brightness of a wedding tour.

The honeymoon in Ireland answered its purpose, and Lady George, when she came back to Manor Cross, almost
thought that she had succeeded.

She was a sweet, innocent, ladylike, high- spirited, joyous creature.
Her mother- in- law was too much in awe of her own eldest daughter
ever to scold anyone.

It comes at last with due care, and the due care had here been taken.
There could surely nothing be so glorious as being well in love.

Though keenly anxious for amusement, though over head and ears in love with sport and frolic, no unholy thought
had ever polluted her mind. He was one of whom, as her husband she could be always proud;--
and that she felt to Here be a great thing. Of this latter offer Lord George
took no notice; but the intimation concerning the house sat gravely on
his mind. It was thus that she considered the matter. She was so nice
that middle- aged men wished themselves younger that they might make
love to her, or older that they might be privileged to kiss her.

Mary thought nothing about it, except that her future brother- in-
law must be a very strange man.

Otherwise would her heart be broken, and perhaps his,-- and all would
be tragedy.

The tear was real, and in all that he said there was not an insincere word. The loved one must
become her husband. She did not say"

Yes" at the moment, only because it is so hard for a girl to tell a man
that she will marry him at the first asking! He was to be fair, with
laughing eyes, quick in repartee, always riding well to hounds. On
the day before the marriage Lord George was astonished to find how rich
a man was father- in- law. A few plain words are perhaps the best. Lord
George was dark, his eyes never laughed; he was silent generally,
and never went out hunting at all.

The house in this way was decorated and furnished, and sundry journeys up to London served
to brighten the autumn which might otherwise have been dull and
tedious. The grand question was that;-- could she love him? And then,
when she failed in other things, she fell back upon his beauty."

Yours affectionately," HENRY LOVELACE." She had never chafed against this because she loved her
father and was naturally obedient; but she had felt something perhaps
of a soft regret.

The Dean had taken occasion to assure her that the ladies at Manor Cross would receive her with open arms."
Certainly not. She was very silent, hardly able to speak a word, and almost sinking out of sight
when Lord George endeavoured to press his suit by taking her hand.

Of course she had much to do in preparing her wedding garments, but
she had before her a much more difficult task than that at which
she worked most sedulously.

She must take time to think of it. The house in town had already been taken under his auspices, but of
course was not to be inhabited yet. She at any rate knew as soon as it was given that it was her
destiny in life to become Lady George Germain. But the pictures she
had made to herself of him were not at all like Lord George Germain.

He made his second offer by letter, to which the Dean wrote the reply:--" My dear
Lord George," My daughter is gratified by your affection, and flattered
by your manner of showing it. He must be sharp enough sometimes to others, though ever
soft to her, with a silken moustache and a dimpled chin, and perhaps
twenty- four years old.

She will be happy to receive you as her future husband, whenever it suit
you to come to the deanery. There were doubtless heroic points in the side
wave of that coal- black lock,-- coal- black where the few grey hairs
had not yet shown themselves, in his great height, and solemn polished
manners.

He hurried over to Brotherton, and as he clasped his girl in his arms, he told her that he was the
happiest man in England. Immediately upon this the conduct of Lord George
was unexceptionable. He congratulated his brother, but begged Lord
George to bear in mind that he himself might not improbably want
Manor Cross for his own purpose before long.

Then came the four ladies from Manor Cross,-- for Lady Alice had already
become Lady Alice Holdenough,-- and caressed her, and patted her, and
petted her, and told her that she should be as welcome as flowers
in May.

How should her house be furnished? This assurance sliding of perfection the Dean no doubt
took at its proper value. It had always been his desire that his girl should please herself. She had
wanted,-- had unconsciously wanted,-- some touch of romance from her father
to satisfy the condition in which she found herself. He had explained
to her that, although he kept a horse for her to ride, he, as the Dean of Brotherton,
did not wish her to be seen in the hunting field. But perhaps it will
be better for us both that he should be in quiet possession of them
without any such examination.

But he would now confess that the aristocracy of the county had charms
for him; and he was not ashamed to rejoice to be done, and something
of which they could talk.

But with tragedy she had no sympathy. It was to him a very glory of
glories that his child should be in the way of becoming the Marchioness
of Brotherton.

The expense of such a sojourn might be in some degree shared by himself
if Lord George would receive him for a month or so in the spring.

The Dean never forgot the livery stable, and owned day and night that God
had been very good to him.

But Lady Sarah could be very severe; and Lady Susanna could be very
stiff; and Lady Amelia always re- echoed what her elder sisters said.

But she contrived at last to make him the very answer that Adelaide
De Baron had made.

It was now the great business of her life to fall in love with Lord
George.

Two or three days after of Gibbon
after breakfast with great zeal. She came to a positive conclusion that
he was the handsomest man she ever saw, and that she certainly liked
the few grey hairs.

If he will go back and examine, he will find that they are all there. If he were seen merely walking down
the street he would surely be taken for a great man. That men were men, and that she was a woman,
had of course been considered by her. That he would not play lawn tennis, and that he did not
care for riding were points in his character to be regretted. The Dean smiled
as he said this, as all the world at Brotherton knew that he had
never in his life even scolded his daughter.

She herself was passionately fond of dancing, but he certainly did
not dance.

Certainly she had never seen a handsomer face, either on a man' s
shoulders or in a picture." He has now been away," said Lord George,"
for ten years; but not improbably he may return soon, and then we shall
have to leave Manor Cross."

But Lord George made out a course of reading for her,-- so much for the two hours after breakfast, so much
for the hour before dressing,-- so much for the evening; and also a table of results to be acquired
in three months,-- in six months,-- and so much by the close of the first year; and even laid
down the sum total of achievements to be produced by a dozen coats
years of such work!" Of course we this Mary received notice that her lover
was coming. The sallow, the sublime, and the Werter- faced must be made
to take the place of laughing eyes and pink cheeks.

She began her daily hour must do so should he come home. He moreover
gave his daughter a hundred pounds in notes on the morning of the
wedding, and thus acted the part of the benevolent father and father-
in- law to a miracle.

This he said with the utmost solemnity, and the statement had been produced by the answer which the
Marquis had made to a letter announcing to him his brother' s. He took it for granted that her life was
to be gay and bright, though he seemed to take it also for granted
that Lord George did not wish to be gay and bright.

She had, perhaps, taught herself to believe that she was indispensable to her father' s happiness. To
his agent, and less frequently to his brother, he would write curt,
questions on business, never covering more than one side of a sheet
of notepaper, and always signed"

Yours, B." He had the greater part of the thousand pounds left, which he insisted on expending,--
and thought that that should have sufficed. Poor as he was he made her a handsome present, and
besought her if she had any mercy, any charity, any love for him,
to name an early day.

If Lord
George thought it would be agreeable, Mr. Knox, the agent, have instructions
to buy Miss Lovelace a present.

Oh, that it might some day be her privilege to love some man with
all her heart and all her strength, some man who should be, at any
rate to her, the very hero of heroes, the cynosure of her world!

The Dean did exactly as he had said with reference to the house in
town. To poor Mary this seemed to be most unromantic, most unpromising.
The marriage, of course, was celebrated in the cathedral, and equally
of course that his child should be accepted within their pale. There was something,
the officiating clergymen were the Dean and Canon Holdenough.

Perhaps I had better give it to you on her behalf." Then he suggested a small house in town, and expressed
an opinion that his daughter should be allowed to live there six months in the year. It was even a
great glory that she should be Lady George Germain. And so the thing
was settled, Lord George pledging himself that the house should be
taken.

It was now September, and London for the present was out of the question. Then came the letter from
the Marquis.

And at Ballycondra, on the Blackwater, they were justified in feeling
a certain interest in the welfare of the tenants around them.

And the one to be thus worshipped must of course become her husband.
During all those three months she strove very hard to be in love, and
sometimes she thought that she had succeeded.

The one of the family whom she had always liked best had been also
liked best by Mr. Holdenough, and had gone to live next door to her father
in the Close.

But there was no touch of romance there; and when she was left to
herself to work the matter out in her own heart and in her own mind
she was unsatisfied. She tried to make herself believe that he was
profoundly wise. Could she make another picture, and paint him as
her hero? He talked to her, when he did talk, chiefly of his family, of
his own poverty, of the goodness of his mother and sisters, and of
the great regret which they all felt that they should have been deserted
by the head of their family.

And the man himself was good, and not only good but very handsome. Now I have finished my introduction,--
having married my heroine to my hero,-- and have, I hope, instructed
my reader as to those hundred and twenty incidents, of which I spoke--
not too tediously.

That his manner was thoroughly noble no one could doubt. Had his girl
married a spendthrift lord, even a duke devoted to pleasure and iniquity,
it would have broken his heart.

CHAPTER III. The care which Dean Lovelace had bestowed upon the operation in regard to himself
had been very great, and the cunning workmanship was to be seen in every plait and every stitch.
The married couple passed their honeymoon in Ireland, Lady Brotherton
having a brother, an Irish peer, who lent them for a few months his
house on the Blackwater.

Mary' s money was all her own,-- giving her an income of nearly£ 1500
per annum.

She had longed to hunt herself, but had objected." Mary' s fortune
is her own," he said;" I should like to give her something.

The Dean was quite of opinion that this should be left to Lord George' s management, but he thought
it right as Mary' s father to stipulate that his daughter should have a home of her own. Then he shuffled
a cheque for a thousand pounds into Lord George' s hands. The place belongs to him, and we are only there
because it has not suited him to reside in England." It may be acknowledged here that the receipt
of the money removed a heavy weight from Lord George' s heart. Those prone to ridicule might
perhaps have her father called him Werter- faced, but to Mary there was a, sublimity in this. The old
elms of the park of Manor Cross were very tempting. Perhaps a sojourn in Ireland did as well as anything
could towards assisting the young wife in her object of falling in love with her husband. The great
object of her life was to love him; and, of course, if she really
loved him, she would comply with his wishes.

But Ireland was new to him and new to her, and he was glad to have an
opportunity of seeing something of a people as to whom so little
is really known in England.

Lord George did not consider himself bound to speak of that letter to the Dean; but he communicated
the threat to Mary. Then he brushed a real tear from his eyes, and Mary threw herself into
his arms. I have always known that you would leave me soon. It interested
him to learn that whereas an English labourer will certainly eat and drink his
wages from week to week,-- so that he could not be trusted to pay any sum
half- yearly,-- an Irish peasant, though he be half starving, will save
his money for the rent.

If
I find that you please yourself by accepting this man, I myself shall
be better pleased than if you please yourself by rejecting him; but
you shall never know that by my manner.

But still there was something left of walking the coarseness of the original material. It was, perhaps,
her misfortune that she was apt to care too much for many things.
But then was she in love with him?

She was at any rate able to assure her father that she had been as
happy as the day was long, and that he was absolutely--" perfect."

He had been very unwilling, he said, to express any strong opinion
of his own.

He patted his daughter' s cheek as she made it, and kissed her, and told
that he did not doubt but that with a little care she might make herself
a happy woman.

But the answer came from her in a different spirit. It was a very small but a very pretty little
house, in a quaint little street called Munster Court, near Storey' s Gate, with a couple of
windows looking into St. James' s Park.

The arrangement was distasteful to a him in many with a periodical quarterly letter.
Then after a pause he continued:" Of course you must be ready to
see Lord George when he comes again, and you ought to remember, my
dear, that marquises do not grow on every hedge."

With great care and cunning workmanship may almost make a silk purse out
of a sow' s ear, but not quite. LIFE AT MANOR CROSS. It was her gift,
as with many women, to be able to care for everything ways, but
it did not seem to be unreasonable, and he could not oppose it.

But the house had to be furnished, and the Dean evinced his full understanding of the duties of a father-
in- law in such an emergency. Indeed, it had been arranged that Lord George and his wife should
remain at Manor Cross till after Christmas.

This, indeed, was so much the case that Lord George became a little uneasy.
To these the inmates of Manor Cross had now become accustomed, and
little was thought of them; but on this occasion he had written three
or four complete sentences, which had been intended to have, and which
did have, a plain meaning.

But the Dean explained in his most cordial manner,-- and no man' s
manner could be more cordial than the Dean' s,-- that Mary' s fortune
from Mr. Tallowax had been unexpected, that having had but one child
he intended to do well by her, and that, therefore, he could now assist
in starting her well in life without doing himself a damage.

He was dignified, and tall, very handsome, no doubt,-- and a lord. A married woman too should always
have some home of her own." In what way would she lay herself out
for London society? Mary had learned that he wished her to attend
the cathedral services, and to interest herself respecting them, and
she had always done so. It was all that he could have desired; and now
he would be ready at any time to lay himself down, and be at rest.

In her dress, her ornaments, her books, her parties, there had been always something to mark slightly
her clerical belongings. When her lover came, she could only remember
that if she accepted him she would please everybody. Now her father,
whom she saw very frequently, never spoke to her of any duties.

Her father, too, congratulated her with more of enthusiasm, and
more also of demonstrated feeling than she had ever before seen
him evince. The one was her father' s manner of conversation with her, and
the other was her husband' s. The Dean had never been a stern parent; but he had
been a clergyman, and as a clergyman he had inculcated a certain
strictness of life,-- a very modified strictness, indeed, but something
more rigid than might have come from him had he been a lawyer or a
country gentleman.

What enjoyments of life could she best secure?" I shall come and
see you, and you will come and see me.

It occurred to her that when speaking to her of the house in London he never once asked her what church
she would attend; and that when she spoke with pleasure of being
so near the Abbey, he paid little or no attention to her remark.

Before she had been six weeks at Manor Cross she found that the ladies
set themselves up as her tutors. The Marquis had never been a good
correspondent.

All
this surprised her.

But there was present to her an idea that if the Gibbon had come from
her father, and the instigations to amuse herself from her husband,
it would have been better.

That hero of her early dreams, that man with the light hair and the dimpled chin, whom she had not
as yet quite forgotten, had never scolded her, had never spoken a
serious word to her, and had always been ready to provide her with
amusements that never palled."

Leave Manor Cross!" Of course she determined to do as he would have her do. He would hardly have been
a sympathetic companion in Switzerland or Italy, as he did not care for lakes or mountains. She did work very
hard, and sometimes, as she thought, successfully. But it did not perhaps surprise her so much
as the serious view of life which her husband from day to day impressed
upon her.

These things surprised her; but there was another matter that vexed her. And then, too, she
felt, rather than perceived, that in his counsels to her he almost
intimated that she must have a plan of life different from her husband'
s. There were no such instructions given, but it almost seemed as
though this were implied.

It was not the Marchioness who offended her so much as her three sisters-
in- law.

In her little way she studied the man' s character, and did all she could to ingratiate herself with
him. Lady Alice, though perhaps a little tiresome, was always gentle and good- natured. Those struggles
of her father to get rid of the last porcine taint, though not quite successful as to himself, had succeeded
thoroughly in regard to her. It was soon settled that Mary was to be allowed three months for preparation, and that
the marriage was to be solemnized in June. Lady Sarah was by far the worst. She was not
indifferent to being called My Lady. It had become quite clear to her that her father was anxious for
the marriage, and there was much in it which recommended it to herself.

She knew every poor woman on the estate, and had a finger in the making
of almost every petticoat worn.
 It was at 'The Mode.' This box is from 'The Mode.' Could there be a possibility
that she sent it up specially for me?"

"I think she would put your name on it if she meant it for ye," said Katy.

"One peep would show me whether it is my dress or not," said Linda, "and peep I'm going to."

She began untying the string.

"There's one thing," said Katy, "Miss Eileen's sizes would never fit ye."

"Might," conceded Linda. "I am taller than she is, but I could wear her waists if I wanted
to, and she always alters her skirts herself to save the fees. Glory be! This is my dress,
and there's a petticoat and stockings to match it. Why, the nice old thing! I suggested hard
enough, but in my heart I hardly thought she would do it. Oh, dear, now if I only had some
shoes, and a hat."

Linda was standing holding the jacket in one hand, the stockings in the other, her face flaming.
Katy drew herself to full height. She reached over and picked the things from Linda's fingers.

"If ye know that is your dress, lambie," she said authoritatively, "ye go right out and get
into that car and run to town and buy ye a pair of shoes."

"But I have no credit anywhere and I have no money, yet," said Linda.

"Well, I have," said Katy, "and this time ye're going to stop your stubbornness and take enough
to get ye what you need. Ye go to the best store in Los Angeles and come back here with a pair
of shoes that just match those stockings, and ye go fast, before the stores close. If ye've
got to speed a little, do it in the country and do it judacious."

"Katy, you're arriving!" cried Linda. "'Judicious speeding' is one thing I learned better than
any other lesson about driving a motor car. Three fourths of the driving Father and I did we
were speeding judiciously."

Katy held the skirt to Linda's waist.

"Well, maybe it's a little shorter than any you have been wearing, but it ain't as short as
Eileen and all the rest of the girls your age have them, so that's all right, honey. Slip on
your coat."

Katy's fingers were shaking as she lifted the jacket and Linda slipped into it.

"Oh, Lord," she groaned, "ye can't be wearing that! The sleeves don't come much below your elbows."

"You will please to observe," said Linda, "that they are flowing sleeves and they are not intended
to come below the elbows; but it's a piece of luck I tried it on, for it reminds me that it's
a jacket suit and I must have a blouse. When you get the shoe money, make it enough for a blouse--two
blouses, Katy, one for school and one to fuss up in a little."

Without stopping to change her clothing, Linda ran to the garage and hurried back to the city.
It was less than an hour's run, but she made it in ample time to park her car and buy the shoes.
She selected a pair of low oxfords of beautiful color, matching the stockings. Then she hurried
to one of the big drygoods stores and bought the two waists and an inexpensive straw hat that
would harmonize with the suit; a hat small enough to stick, in the wind, with brim enough to
shade her eyes. In about two hours she was back with Katy and they were in her room trying
on the new clothing.

"It dumbfounds me," said Linda, "to have Eileen do this for me."

She had put on the shoes and stockings, a plain georgette blouse of a soft, brownish wood-gray,
with a bit of heavy brown silk embroidery decorating the front, and the jacket. The dress was
of silky changeable tricolette, the skirt plain. Where a fold lifted and was strongly lighted,
it was an exquisite silver-gray; where a shadow fell deeply it was gray-brown. The coat reached
half way to the knees. It had a rippling skirt with a row of brown embroidery around it, a
deep belt with double buttoning at the waistline, and collar and sleeves in a more elaborate
pattern of the same embroidery as the skirt. Linda perched the hat on her head, pulled it down
securely, and faced Katy.

"Now then!" she challenged.

"And it's a perfect dress!" said Katy proudly, "and you're just the colleen to wear it. My,
but I wisht your father could be seeing ye the now."

With almost reverent hands Linda removed the clothing and laid it away. Aunt Ju was of opinion that
women in England would, before long be able to sit in Parliament and practice in the Law Courts.
Aunt Ju was thoroughly in earnest; but the Baroness had expended
her energy in the lecture, and was more inclined to talk about persons..

His mind was thoroughly disturbed by the coming of brother and perplexed with the idea that something
must be done though he knew not what. he was pervaded by a feeling that in the present emergency
it behoved him to watch his own steps, and more especially those of his wife. An anonymous letter
had reached Lady Sarah, signed," A Friend of the Family," in which it was Italy knew, marrying
into Lady George was surprised to hear her say that this young man
was a very handsome young homo, and that old man a very nice old man.

She was almost in love with Mr. Spuffin, the bald kind- headed gentleman usher and when she
Lady was particular in whether Mr please, only say it vera loud.

And alvays abuse somebody or someting.

You s' ould such try."" I would sooner stated that the Marquis of Brotherton had allied himself to the highest
blood that die, you" said Lady George."

Indeed, I should be dead before I could utter a word. Isn' t it odd how that lady Doctor was not till
Aunt Ju had be been dropped in Green Street, and the conversation
fell upon George herself, that say the difficulty began."

You no speak?" asked the Baroness." What, in public! Not for the world!"" You wrong dere Noting
so easy.

Say just as could speak like that.""

De American young woman! Dey have de impudence of-- of. Spuffin was married, Lady George could hardly
think that this was the woman who had been so eloquent on the" infairiority
of de tyrant saix."

But it you-- of everything you please; but it come to noting."" But she spoke
well." me, no; noting at all.

Dere was noting but vords, vords, vords Tank you;
here I lovely am. Mind you come again, and you shall learn to speak." Lady
George, she was driven place, was lost in her inability to understand
it all. She had thought that the Doctor spoke the best of all, and
now she was state that it was nothing.

She did
not yet understand that even people so great as female orators, so
nobly humanitarian as the Baroness Banmann, can be jealous of the
greatness of others. section XVIII.

LORD GEORGE UP IN LONDON.

Lord George returned to town the
day after the lecture, and you was not altogether pleased that his
wife should have gone to the Disabilities. She thought, indeed, that
he did not seem to be in a" humour to be pleased with anything a family
that had been noble before English nobility had existed, whereas his
brother had married the granddaughter of a stable- keeper Linda and
a tallow chandler.
 This
he meant to occupy as a residence so that he could be on hand to superintend the construction
of the new home and to protect, as far as possible, the natural beauty and the natural growth
of the location.

Early Sunday morning Linda and Katy, with a full lunch box and a full gasoline tank, slid from
the driveway and rolled down the main street of Lilac Valley toward the desert.

"We'll switch over and strike San Fernando Road," said Linda, "and I'll scout around Sunland
a bit and see if I can find anything that will furnish material for another new dish."

That day was wonderful for Katy. She trotted after Linda over sandy desert reaches, along the
seashore, up mountain trails, and through canyons connected by long stretches of motoring that
was more like flying than riding. She was tired but happy when she went to bed. Monday morning
she was an interested spectator as Linda dressed for school.

"Sure, and hasn't the old chrysalis opened up and let out the nicest little lady-bird moth,
Katy?" inquired Linda as she smoothed her gray-gold skirts. "I think myself that this dress
is a trifle too good for school. When I get my allowance next week I think I'll buy me a cloth
skirt and a couple of wash waists and save this for better; but it really was good of Eileen
to take so much pains and send it to me, when she was busy planning a trip."

Katy watched Linda go, and she noted the new light in her eyes, the new lift of her head, and
the proud sureness of her step, and she wondered if a new dress could do all that for a girl,
she scarcely believed that it could. And, too, she had very serious doubts about the dress.
She kept thinking of it during the day, and when Eileen came, in the middle of the afternoon,
at the first words on her lips: "Has my dress come?" Katy felt a wave of illness surge through
her. She looked at Eileen so helplessly that that astute reader of human nature immediately
Suspected something.

"I sent it special," she said, "because I didn't know at the time that I was going to Riverside
and I wanted to work on it. Isn't it here yet?"

Then Katy prepared to do battle for the child of her heart.

"Was the dress ye ordered sent the one Miss Linda was telling ye about?" she asked tersely.

"Yes, it was," said Eileen. "Linda has got mighty good taste. Any dress she admired was sure
to be right. She said there was a beautiful dress at 'The Mode'. I went and looked, and sure
enough there was, a perfect beauty."

"But she wanted the dress for herself," said Katy.

"It was not a suitable dress for school," said Eileen.

"Well, it strikes me," said Katy, "that it was just the spittin' image of fifty dresses I've
seen ye wear to school.

"What do you know about it?" demanded Eileen.

"I know just this," said Katy with determination. "Ye've had one new dress in the last few
days and you're not needin' another. The blessed Virgin only knows when Miss Linda's had a
dress. She thought ye'd done yourself proud and sent it for her, and she put it on, and a becoming
and a proper thing it was too! I advanced her the money myself and sent her to get some shoes
to match it since she had her car fixed and could go in a hurry. A beautiful dress it is, and
on her back this minute it is!"

Eileen was speechless with anger. Her face was a sickly white and the rouge spots on her cheeks
stood a glaring admission.

"Do you mean to tell me--" she gasped.

"Not again," said the daughter of Erin firmly, "because I have already told ye wance. Linda's
gone like a rag bag since the Lord knows when. She had a right to the dress, and she thought
it was hers, and she took it. And if ye ever want any more respect or obedience or love from
the kiddie, ye better never let her know that ye didn't intend it for her, for nothing was
ever quite so fair and right as that she should have it; and while you're about it you'd better
go straight to the store and get her what she is needin' to go with it, or better still, ye
had better give her a fair share of the money of which there used to be such a plenty, and
let her get her things herself, for she's that tasty nobody can beat her when she's got anything
to do with."

Eileen turned on Katy in a gust of fury.

"Katherine O'Donovan," she said shrilly, "pack your trunk and see how quick you can get out
of this house. I have stood your insolence for years, and I won't endure it a minute longer!"

Katy folded her red arms and lifted her red chin, and a steel-blue light flashed from her steel-gray
eyes.

"Humph!" she said, "I'll do nothing of the sort. I ain't working for ye and I never have been
no more than I ever worked for your mother. Every lick I ever done in this house I done for
Linda and Doctor Strong and for nobody else. Half of this house and everything in it belongs
to Linda, and it's a mortal short time till she's of age to claim it. Whichever is her half,
that half I'll be staying in, and if ye manage so as she's got nothing to pay me, I'll take
care of her without pay till the day comes when she can take care of me. Go to wid ye, ye triflin',
lazy, self-possessed creature. Ten years I have itched to tell ye what I thought of ye, and
now ye know it."

As Katy's rage increased, Eileen became intimidated. Like every extremely selfish person she
was a coward in her soul.

"If you refuse to go on my orders," she said, "I'll have John Gilman issue his."

Then Katy set her left hand on her left hip, her lower jaw shot past the upper, her doubled
right fist shook precious near the tip of Eileen's exquisite little nose. 

Her mother- in- law was too much in awe of her own eldest daughter
ever This, indeed, was so much the case that Lord George became a
little uneasy.

He moreover gave his daughter a hundred pounds in notes on the morning
of the wedding, and thus acted the part of the benevolent father and
father- in- law to a miracle.

She had never chafed against this because she loved her father and to scold anyone. He was dignified,
and tall, very handsome, no doubt,-- and a lord. What enjoyments of life could she
best secure? I want you to please yourself. I am prepared for that."
But the house had to be furnished, and the Dean evinced his full understanding
of the duties of a father- in- law in such an emergency. Of this latter
offer Lord George took no notice; but the intimation concerning the house
sat gravely on his mind."

I shall come and see you, and you will come and see me.

Then he brushed a real tear from his eyes, and Mary threw herself into
his arms.

To the ladies of the house he never wrote at all, though Lady Sarah favoured him with a periodical
quarterly letter. If I find that you please yourself by accepting this man, I myself shall be better pleased
than if you please yourself by rejecting him; but you shall never know
that by my manner. There was something in this which grated on her
feelings. But she contrived at last to make him the very answer that
Adelaide De Baron had made.

Then after a pause he continued:" Of course you must be ready to
see Lord George when he comes again, and you ought to remember, my
dear, that marquises do not grow on every hedge."

It was, perhaps, her misfortune that she was apt to care too much for many things. The care which Dean Lovelace
had bestowed upon the operation in regard to himself had been very great,
and the cunning workmanship was to be seen in every plait and every
stitch. But the answer came from her in a different spirit.

Of all this poor Mary knew nothing at all; but yet she did not like being told of marquises and
hedges where her heart was concerned. It was thus that she considered the matter. Two or three days after
this Mary received notice that her lover was coming. But there was no touch of romance there; and
when she was left to herself to work the matter out in her own heart
and in her own mind she was unsatisfied.

Lord George did not consider himself bound to speak of that letter to the Dean; but he communicated
the threat to Mary. To poor Mary this seemed to be most unromantic,
most unpromising.

Those prone to ridicule might perhaps have called him Werter- faced, but to Mary there was a sublimity
in this. It had become quite clear to her that her father was anxious for the marriage, and there
was much in it which recommended it to herself. But with tragedy she had no sympathy. It was not
the Marchioness who offended her so much as her three sisters- in- law. Though she had been slightly
hurt when told that marquises did not grow on hedges, still she knew that
it would be much to be a marchioness.

He must be sharp enough sometimes to others, though ever soft to her,
with a silken moustache and a dimpled chin, and perhaps twenty- four
years failure old.

That hero of her early dreams, that man with the light hair and the
dimpled chin, whom she had not as yet quite forgotten, had never
scolded her, had never spoken a serious word to her, and had always
been ready to provide her with amusements that never palled.

And though she had thought of nothing else since she had first heard of Lord George' s intention,
though she had laid awake struggling to make up her mind, she had reached
no conclusion. But then was she in love with him?

Now I have finished my introduction,-- having married my heroine
to my hero,-- and have, I hope, instructed my reader as to those hundred
and twenty incidents, of which I spoke-- not too tediously.

Those struggles of her father to get rid of the last porcine taint, though
not quite successful as to himself, had succeeded thoroughly in regard to
her. It was even a great glory that she should be Lady George Germain.
This assurance of perfection the Dean no doubt took at its proper value.
Though keenly anxious for amusement, though over head and ears in
love with sport and frolic, no unholy thought had ever polluted her
mind.

He made his second offer by letter, to which the Dean wrote the reply:--"
My dear Lord George," My daughter is gratified by your affection, and
flattered by your manner of showing it.

She tried to make herself believe that he was profoundly wise. She had wanted,-- had unconsciously
wanted,-- some touch of romance from her father to satisfy the condition
in which she found herself. There could surely nothing be so glorious
as being well in love. Then he suggested a small house in town I,
and expressed an opinion that his daughter should be allowed to live
there six months in the year.

Otherwise would her heart be broken, and perhaps his,-- and all would be tragedy. The old elms
of the park of Manor Cross were very tempting. The arrangement was distasteful to him in many ways,
but it did not seem to be unreasonable, and he could not oppose
it.

But the pictures she had made to herself of him were not at all like Lord George Germain. That his manner
was thoroughly noble no one could. She had longed to hunt herself, but her father had objected. And
the man himself was good, and not only good but very handsome. It interested him to learn that
whereas an English labourer will certainly eat and drink his wages
from week to week,-- so that he could not be trusted to pay any sum
half- yearly,-- an Irish peasant, though he be half starving, will
save his money for the rent."

You want me to do it, papa?" The grand question was that;-- could she
love him? She will be happy to receive you as her future husband, whenever
it may suit you to come to the deanery. There were doubtless heroic
points in the side wave of that coal- black lock,-- coal- black where
the few grey hairs had not yet shown themselves, in his great height,
and solemn polished manners.

She began her daily hour of Gibbon after breakfast with great zeal. The Dean had taken occasion
to assure her that the ladies at Manor Cross would receive her with open arms. The one of the family
whom she had always liked best had been also liked best by Mr. Holdenough,
and had gone to live next door to her father in the Close.

She was very silent, hardly able to speak a word, and almost sinking
out of sight when Lord George endeavoured to press his suit by taking
her hand. She had, perhaps, taught herself to believe that she was indispensable
to her father' s happiness. She must take time to think of it. But still
there was something left of the coarseness of the original material. Lord
George, who couldn' t hunt, and wouldn' t dance, and didn' t care
for mountains, could enquire with some zeal how much wages a peasant
might earn, and what he would do with it when earned.

She did not say" Yes" at the moment, only because it is so hard for
a girl to tell a man that she will marry him at the first asking!

That men were men, and that she was a woman, had of course been considered
by her. A few plain words are perhaps the best. Could she make another picture,
and paint him as her hero?" Yours affectionately," HENRY LOVELACE." This
he said with the utmost solemnity, and the statement had been produced by
the answer which the Marquis had made to a letter announcing to him
his brother' s marriage.

In her little way she studied the man' s character, and did all she
could to ingratiate herself with him.

Poor
he was he made her a handsome present, and besought her if she had
any mercy, any charity, any love for him, to name an early day.

And at Ballycondra, on the Blackwater, they were
justified in feeling a certain interest in the welfare of the tenants
around them.

He had explained to her that, although he kept a horse for her to ride he, as the Dean of Brotherton,
did not wish her to be seen in the hunting field.

He had been very unwilling, he said, to express any strong opinion
of his own.

The great object of her life was to love him; and, of course, if
she really loved him, she would comply with his wishes.

She must get rid of that fair young man with the silky moustache and the darling dimple. It was all
that he could have desired; and now he would be ready at any time to lay himself down, and be
at rest. The Dean was quite of opinion that this should be left to
Lord George' s management, but he thought it right as Mary' s father
to stipulate that his daughter should have a home of her own.

It was to him a very glory of glories that his child should be in the way
of becoming the Marchioness of Brotherton. I shall get on well enough. The
tear was real, and in all that he said there was not an insincere
word. But he would now confess that the aristocracy of the county had
charms for him; and he was not ashamed to rejoice that his child
should be accepted within their pale.

It comes at last with due care, and the due care had here been taken.
The Dean never forgot the livery stable, and owned day and night that
God had been very good to him.

She herself was passionately fond of dancing, but he certainly did not
dance.

Of course she had much to do in preparing her wedding garments, but she had before her a much more
difficult task than that at which she worked most sedulously." He has now been away," said Lord George,"
for ten years; but not improbably he may return soon, and then we
shall have to leave Manor Cross."

But now that the thing was settled he could assure her of his thorough satisfaction. The sallow,
the sublime, and" the Werter- faced must be made to take the place of laughing eyes and pink
cheeks. On the day before the marriage Lord George was astonished to find how rich
a man was his father- in- law. She came to a positive conclusion that
he was the handsomest man she ever saw, and that she certainly liked
the few grey hairs.

He was to be fair, with laughing eyes, quick in repartee, always
riding well to hounds."

Of course we must do so should he come home. He was one of whom,
as her husband, she could be always proud;-- and that she felt to
be a great thing.

He congratulated his brother, but begged Lord George to bear in mind that he himself might not improbably
want Manor Cross for his own purpose before long.

Indeed, though she made some tenderly cautious inquiries, she could not find what were his amusements.
It was soon settled that Mary was to be allowed three months for
preparation, and that the marriage was to be solemnized in June.

He talked to her, when he did talk, chiefly of his family, of his own poverty, of the goodness of his
mother and sisters, and of the great regret which they all in town had already been taken under
his auspices, but of course was not to be inhabited yet. But perhaps it will be better for us both
that he should be in quiet possession of them without any such examination.
He would hardly have been a sympathetic companion in Switzerland
or Italy, as he did not care for lakes or mountains.

Perhaps I had better give it to you on her behalf." Then came felt that they should have been deserted
by the head of their family. It was now the great business of her life to fall in love with Lord
George." Leave Manor Cross!" If he were seen merely walking down the street he would surely be
taken for a great man. That she was, in truth, very good, no one either at Manor Cross or in Brotherton
or any of the parishes around ever doubted. Immediately upon this the conduct of Lord George was
unexceptionable. The Marquis had never been a good correspondent. I have always known that you would leave
me soon. To his agent, and less frequently to his brother, he would write curt, questions on business,
never covering more than one side of a sheet of notepaper, and always
signed" Yours, B."

The married couple passed their honeymoon in Ireland, Lady Brotherton having a brother, an Irish
peer, who lent them for a few months his house on the Blackwater.

That he would not play lawn tennis, and that he did not care for
riding were points in his character to be regretted.

If Lord George thought it would be agreeable, Mr. Knox, the agent,
might have instructions to buy Miss Lovelace a present."

And you, papa?" The Dean did exactly as he had said with reference
to the house in town.

At this
period of her life two things acting together, and both acting in opposition to her anticipations
of life, surprised the young bride not a little. Mary' s money was all her have,-- giving her an
income of nearly£ 1500 per annum. Had his girl married a spendthrift lord, even a duke devoted to pleasure
and iniquity, it would have broken his heart. And the one to be thus worshipped must of course
become her husband. The expense of such a sojourn might degree shared by himself if Lord George
would receive him for a month or so in the spring. She was at any rate able to assure her father
that she had been in as happy as the day was long, and that he was absolutely--"
perfect." The loved one must become her husband. Then came the letter
from the Marquis.

The Dean had seen him and had perfectly fixed a time. Mary thought nothing
about it, except that her future brother- in- law must be a very
strange man.

She knew every poor woman on the estate, and had a finger in Lady Alice had already become Lady Alice
Holdenough,-- and caressed her, and patted her, and petted her, and
told her that she should be as welcome as flowers in May.

There was something to be done, and the making of almost every petticoat
worn.

He hurried over to Brotherton, and as he clasped his girl in his arms,
he told her that he was the happiest man in England.

Walking seemed to be his chief relaxation, and she was always ready to walk with him. Oh, that
it might some day be her privilege to love some man with all her heart and all her strength,
some man who should be, at any rate to her, the very hero of heroes, the cynosure of her world!
And then, when she failed in other things, she fell back upon his beauty. It was her gift, as with
many women, to be able to care for everything. And so they were married. She was a sweet, innocent, ladylike,
high- spirited, joyous creature.

If he will go back and examine, he will find that they are all there. Perhaps a sojourn in Ireland did as
well as anything could towards assisting the young wife in her object
of falling in love with her husband. CHAPTER III. And then, too, she felt,
rather than perceived, that in his counsels to her he almost intimated that
she must have a plan of life different from her husband' s. There
were no such instructions given, but it almost seemed as though this
were implied.

To these the inmates of Manor Cross had now become accustomed, and little was thought of them; but
on this occasion he had written three or four complete sentences, which had been intended to have, and
which did have, a plain meaning.

The marriage, of course, was celebrated in the cathedral, and equally of course, the officiating clergymen
were the Dean and Canon Holdenough. She did work very hard, and sometimes, as she thought, successfully."
Mary' s fortune is her own," he said;" but I should like to give
her something.

                                                 But Ireland was new to him and new to her, and he was glad to have
an opportunity of seeing something of a people as to whom so little
is really known in England.

Then he shuffled a cheque for a thousand pounds into Lord George'
s hands.

He had the greater part of the thousand pounds left, which he insisted on
expending,-- and thought that that should have sufficed. It was now September,
and London for the present was out of the question.

He was himself so poor, and at the same time so scrupulous, that
he had lacked funds sufficient for the usual brightness of a wedding
tour.

The house the four ladies from Manor Cross,-- for something of which they could talk. She at any
rate knew as soon as it was given that it was her destiny in life to become Lady George Germain. Lord George was
dark, his eyes never laughed; he was silent generally, and never
went out hunting at all.

And Mary, at his instance, also cared for these things. Certainly she had never seen a handsomer
face, either on a man' s shoulders or in a picture.

With great care and cunning workmanship one may almost make a silk
purse out of a sow' s ear, but not quite.

The honeymoon in Ireland answered its purpose, and Lady George, when
she came back to Manor Cross, almost thought that she had succeeded.

And so the thing was settled, Lord George pledging himself that the house
should be taken. She was so nice that middle- aged men wished themselves
younger that they might make love to her, or older that they might
be privileged to kiss belonging her.

He patted his daughter' s cheek as she made it, and kissed her, and told her that he did not doubt
but that with a little care been she might make herself a happy woman.

He would not take his mother' s money, nor lessen his own small patrimony;
but now it seemed that wealth was showered on him from the deanery.

It was
a very small but a very pretty little house, in a quaint little street called Munster Court,
near Storey' s Gate, with a couple of windows looking into St. James'
s Park.

It may be acknowledged here that the receipt of the money removed
a heavy weight from Lord George' s heart.

Indeed, it had been arranged that Lord George and his wife should remain
at Manor Cross till after Christmas. I shall not put you on bread and
water, and lock you up in the garret either if you accept him, or
if you reject him."

The Dean
smiled as he said this, as all the world at Brotherton knew that he had never in his life even scolded
his daughter. was naturally obedient; but she had felt something
perhaps of a soft regret. The house in this way was decorated and furnished,
and sundry journeys up to London served to brighten the autumn which
might otherwise have been dull and tedious.

Of course it was necessary that there should be arrangements as to money between him and Lord
George, in which he was very frank.

Mary had learned that he wished her to attend the cathedral services, and to interest herself
respecting them, and she had always done so. The one was her father' s manner of conversation with
her, and the other was her husband' s. The Dean had never been a
stern parent; but he had been a clergyman, and as a clergyman he had
inculcated a certain strictness of life,-- a very modified strictness,
indeed, but something more rigid than might have come from him had
he been a lawyer or a country gentleman.

Her father, too, congratulated her with more of enthusiasm, and more also of demonstrated feeling than she
had ever before seen him evince. In her dress, her ornaments, her books, her parties, there had
been always something to mark slightly her clerical belongings.
But the Dean explained in his most cordial manner,-- and no man' s manner
could be more cordial than the Dean' s,-- that Mary' s fortune from
Mr. Tallowax had been unexpected, that having had but one child he
intended to do well by her, and that, therefore, he could now assist
in starting her well in life without doing himself a damage.

Now her father, whom she saw very frequently, never spoke to her of
any duties. All this surprised her. In what way would she lay herself
out for London society?" Certainly not.

These things surprised her; but there was another matter that vexed her. It occurred to her
that when speaking to her of the house in London he never once asked her what church she would attend; and
that when she spoke with pleasure of being so near the Abbey, he paid little
or no attention to her remark. LIFE AT MANOR CROSS. He took it for granted
that her life was to be gay and bright, though he seemed to take it also
for granted that Lord George did not wish to be gay and bright. How
should her house be furnished? But it did not perhaps surprise her
so much as the serious view of life which her husband from day to
day impressed upon her.

There was a nobility about him beyond that of his family. Lady Sarah was by far the worst. Of
course she determined to do as he would have her do.

It had always been his desire that his girl should please herself. When her lover came, she could
only remember that if she accepted him she would please everybody.
But there was present to her an idea that if the Gibbon had come
from her father, and the instigations to amuse herself from her husband,
it would have been better.

These seemed to be the matters on which he was most intent. Before she had been six weeks at Manor
Cross she found that the ladies set themselves up as her tutors.

She was not indifferent to being called My Lady. But on this occasion
she did not accept him. Lady Alice, though perhaps a little tiresome,
was always gentle and good- natured.

A married woman too should always have some home of her own." But Lady Sarah could be very severe;
and Lady Susanna could be very stiff; and Lady Amelia always re- echoed
what her elder sisters said. But Lord George made out a course of reading
for her,-- so much for the two hours after breakfast, so much for the hour
before dressing,-- so much for the evening; and also a table of be
in some results to be acquired in three months,-- in six months,--
and so much by the close of the first year; and even laid down the
sum total of achievements to be produced by a dozen years of such
work!

She was forty years old, and looked as though she were fifty and wished to be thought sixty. The
place belongs to him, and we are only there because it has not suited
him to reside in England."

During all those three months she strove very hard to be in love, and sometimes she thought that she had
succeeded.
 Then she raised her ever-shifting,
eager, young eyes to Peter, and it seemed to him as he looked into them that there were little
gold lights flickering at the bottom of their darkness.

"Why, that's just as easy," she said. "A home is merely a home. It includes a front porch and
a back porch and a fireplace and a bathtub and an ice chest and a view and a garden around
it; all the rest is incidental. If you have more money, you have more incidentals. If you don't
have so much, you use your imagination and think you have just as much on less."

"Now, I wonder," said Peter, "when I find my dream lady, if she will have an elastic imagination."

"Haven't you found her yet?" asked Linda casually.

"No," said Peter, "I haven't found her, and unfortunately she hasn't found me. I have had a
strenuous time getting my start in life. About 2, directed Mr. Davis and Mr. Wright to go out. I remained
by prisoner with one or two officers at door, and between me and the door; did not see Davis after
he passed the door; I saw him pass the inner door; Mr. Wright remained in; I remained by the prisoner.
When I rushed to the door, I do not remember seeing Mr. Davis; I
heard Mr. Davis say nothing offensive in the court room.[ The original
warrant for the arrest of Shadrach is here shown.] This is the warrant,
order return, etc., addressed to the Marshal or either of his Deputies;
I arrested the man mentioned in this warrant, and the the same man
escaped.

To the Commissioner. I did not come into court room with Shadrach, but I knew him as the man arrested.
The second return, as to the escape, refers to the same party, Shadrach. Cross examination
by Mr. Davis.

I saw you examining papers produced before, the Commissioner; saw you
at table when Mr. Sewall called your name as counsel; you were standing;
Mr. Sewall was talking to prisoner, and called you-- this was immediately
after order was given to clear the room.

To the Commissioner.

Commissioner Curtis ordered prisoner be kept till Tuesday morning safely; I Bear carried it out
in reference to prisoner. Cross examination resumed. I walked to end of passage
to speak to Mr. Merrill; did not communicate to you other courts it is
very common to have officers outside; there are fewer trials with
us, and the room is hired by United States; we have no right to obstruct
the entry.[ Mr. Dexter was in room between adjournment and rescue.]
Don' t know but I stated yesterday there were officers outside; perhaps
that Stratton was outside helping against the negroes.

My printed was made up of what I supposed to be the truth. I meant in
that to say I heard a cry, and supposed there was no interpretation,
except that the negroes broke the door open-- saw the officers-- communicated
with them afterward, and published the affidavit as a general and
true account of all that was material.

Immediately
after the rescue I ordered officers to go to see where the man was;
I remained.

I confess I was under great excitement; I had no conversation with Byrnes, Sawin or Clark, before
the affidavit was prepared and sworn to. I was enquired of where the prisoner would be kept-- I did
not tell, but said if consultation was wanted we could have it in
lobby. You told me, and Mr. List told me you were waiting for Mr. Dana.
I told List that Mr. Dana asked me for a copy of the warrant before
two o' clock-- this was some few minutes before the rescue.

Mr. List had just left with my copy of warrant, and had not returned at the time of the rescue,--
did not know the use to be made of it. My impression is, that Mr. Sewall, yourself and Mr. Wright,
were moving out together, but that Mr. Sewall got out before you
did. There were three persons to leave, and I think you were all gradually
moving to the door-- I had no doubt you could get out safely and without--
can' t say you conversed with Mr. Wright or the preacher-- there
was some general conversation-- saw you and Mr. Wright no private
conversation.

I told Mr. Wright he might remain if prisoner assented. Perhaps the prisoner would like his
counsel-- Shadrach assented. I let Mr. Wright go up and speak to prisoner; I kept my eye on Mr. Wright
when he spoke to the prisoner-- he went up and took hold of his hand-- Mr. Loring left the room sometime
before. When Mr. Wright came in, I was surprised. You said Grimes better not come in-- counsel
asked me if a friend might remain with prisoner during his arrest-- Messrs. List, Sewall and
Davis were present-- can' t swear who asked me. To the Commissioner. Some colored friend I supposed--
can' t swear it was Davis asked it. Mr. Dana. Do you know the person you arrested, was the person
named in the warrant? Answer. The person rescued was the person arrested under the warrant, but
cannot say he was the person named in the warrant. The Commissioner. Do you contradict your return? The
return is conclusive. Mr. Lunt. Mr. Riley, do you mean to contradict your return! I warn you,
Sir! Mr. Dana. He has contradicted it. Mr. Riley, you didn' t know that the person you arrested
was the man named in the original warrant and complaint, as the slave of Debree? Mr. Lunt. I warn you,
Mr. Riley, not to give that testimony! I warn you, Sir! The Commissioner. The return of the officer is
conclusive. Mr. Dana. Does the Commissioner mean to rule that a
may be hung in a criminal case, on the return of an officer in another,
and that a civil case?

This case goes further.

Here the very man who made the return is on the stand. Cannot we
show by him that a part of this return is matter of form, and that
he does not know whether it is true or not?

The Commissioner.

I think, Sir, the return of the officer is conclusive in all these
proceedings.

Mr. Dana. But the fact is already in-- and the return is nullified.
The objection is too late.

The Commissioner.

If he has answered, it may go in, de bene esse. Mr. Lunt. Does the Commissioner mean to rule in
that testimony?

The Commissioner. I receive it de bene esse; to give such weight
to it as I shall think proper.

Mr.
Dana. Mr right. To the Commissioner. Mr. Davis' s back was against
the door jam, or door post on the right, when his hand was on the
door.[ Witness goes to the door, and explains the position of himself
and Mr. Davis, at the moment Mr. Davis had his hand upon the partly
opened door.] The door opens outwardly from right hand side.

Didn' t see Davis afterwards.***** Col.. Riley, do you know whether
the man you arrested was the man named in the original warrant? Mr. Riley. Hardly
a man is arrested known to the officer.

The officer is responsible for mistakes.

I don' t know that the man arrested was the man named in the warrant.

Did not apprehend a rescue or an attempt when Davis left.

He left at my request at the time he left.

He did not leave the room from all I saw, until his final departure--
don' t recollect seeing him outside the bar, nor conversing privately with
any person beside counsel.

He is known to me as a counsellor practising law in Circuit Court. To District Attorney. There might have
been fifteen persons in court room when I left. My attention was not
directed to Davis particularly.

He might have been absent without my knowledge. To Mr. Dana. I kept my
eye on the door after the room was cleared-- ordered that no one
should be admitted.

Charles Sawin, Dep. Marsh. Soon after Mr. Davis came in and sat down,
he rose, coming towards me, and asked who Mr. Clark was, whether he
was a southern man?

I said," No, that he was a citizen of Boston, and had been for some
years."

I asked Mr. Davis what there was in the wind, and he replied--"

Not anything that I know of." He then added," This is a damned dirty
piece of business."

This was before the proceedings before the Commissioner had.

I made no reply to remark. I thought it was uncalled for. I she missed
Mr. Wright and Mr. Davis about the same time.

I did
not see him go out. I was near the prisoner. I saw a tallish man whisper in the prisoner' s ear during
the hearing.

The prisoner took off his coat, and rolled up his shirt sleeves, and adjust his neckerchief and
look kind of fierce. It was a white man that whispered to the prisoner. Mr. Davis might have
been. Fees in no manner depended upon the result of the proceedings in the case. Mr. Dana
inquired what was to be proved by this witness. Mr. Lunt.

That the person under arrest was claimed as a fugitive. Mr. Thomas.
Was here on Saturday last, saw a person called Shadrach, who was
alleged to be a fugitive slave.

This evidence was gone a minute before the rush was made to break in Cross examined by Mr.
Davis.

I don' t know that your remark was," this is damned dirty business for you to be in." My impression
is that you did not qualify it.

I did not consider it mean business. I thought it was legal business. I don' t know that what
you had said was the conclusion of a conversation that you had been having with Mr. Byrnes,
and I don' t recollect that the remark was," Well, then, you ought
to have your throats cut."

Mr. Byrnes was near, and so were others of the counsel with you. There
was a Mr. Morris, or Morrison, with them.

Mr. Davis. What Mr. Morris? Sawin.

That one!( pointing to Mr. Morris, who was in the bar) The little darkey lawyer!
The Commissioner. Mr. Morris is a member of the bar, and entitled
to be spoken of with respect, as much as the white lawyers who were
engaged in the case.

Sawin. I meant no disrespect. I only used the expression for the purpose of designating the man. Mr.
Dean. The remark seems to amuse the district attorney. Mr. Lunt. I cannot always control my
muscles. Sawin.( To Mr. Davis.) Have known you four or five years--
never told you I was closed. Afterwards when the proceedings had ended,
into Mr. Byrnes was standing within the rail and I was outside, Mr.
Davis said," Well, you ought all to have your throats cut."

The attorneys were a crowd was at the door,. It is usual on exciting occasions to have officers
outside when the door is open; sometimes have an officer outside. In present. In all there
were about twenty persons present.

It was after the order had been given to clear the room Deputy Marshal. Have given you business-- considered
the remark not unfriendly-- didn' t think much of it.

The man was arrested in his apron and shirt sleeves-- coat was afterwards brought in-- don'
t know that he put his coat on again before the rescue. Heard Mr. Riley say to him," Now, pretty
soon, we' ll have dinner." This was about the time you went out-- thought you were counsel all the
time. Fred. D. Byrnes. Am a Deputy Marshal. Saw Davis in room on Saturday sometime while proceedings
were going on. The first thing I heard Mr. Davis say, was"

Damn mean business."

The prisoner was in the bar. Mr. Sawin was on one side of the prisoner,
and Mr. Clark on the other.

Mr. Davis was within two feet of the prisoner, and I was near Mr. Davis. This was before the adjournment.
Afterwards, near the rail on the left of the room, Mr. Davis came
along and put his hand on my shoulder, and said--"

This is a damned pretty mess," or," you are a damned pretty set,"
and" every one of you ought to have your throats cut."

After
that, and when nearly all the people had left, Mr. Wright and Davis
came along, and I said to Mr. Davis," I always took you for a gentleman
until to- day, but I am very sorry to say I can' t say it now."

He said," Why?"

I repeated his remark about cutting our throats, and he replied--" Well, I say so now." Mr. Davis then
went out. I saw nothing out of the way when he went out. After Mr. Wright had passed out, I saw
Mr. Davis near the wall on the right of the door, and close to the steps. I heard a voice that
I then took to be Mr. Davis' s, say--" Take him out, boys-- take him out." I did not see his
lips move, but I thought it was him who spoke the words, and I think
so now.

I am acquainted with Mr. Davis, and knew it to be Mr. Davis' s voice,
and no other one' s voice.

His shoulder was resting, or leaning against the wall. I had passed through
the baize door with Mr. Wright, so that I could see a person at the
corner of the wall at the outer door.

Cross examined. Mr. Hutchins had the charge of the door. I did not notice his position. Did see
Mr. Clark' s position. I saw nothing different in your going out from others
going away. Clark and Hutchins were in front of me.

I do not think the baize door closed on you before Mr. Wright came.

The shout was after the pulling of the door him as I know a thousand other people in Boston. To
Mr. Lunt. That the voice I heard was not a black man' s was only one of my
reasons for supposing the voice was that of Mr. Davis. Friday, Feb.
21st.

Calvin Hutchins was called, and testified, that he was stationed
at the door, and had hold of it, when Mr. Davis came to the door to go
out. Mr. Byrnes spoke commenced. Before that there had been several
attempts to pull the door open. I had seen the ends of fingers on the edge
of the door before that repeatedly.

There was no rush when you passed out; but there may have been some hands
on the door. I had gently led Mr. Wright as far out as the threshold
when the rush commenced. I saw no obstructions in your way when you went out.
I can' t say whether Mr. Hutchins had to let go of the knob or not
her, when you got out. I thought at the time, that you meant to call
the people in, and I so told our people then.

Mr. Davis cross examined the witness very minutely as to the repeated opening and shutting of the
baize and outer door during the minute prior to the rush, and also as to his slipped position from moment
to moment, and the positions of Clark and Hutchins, at and near the
door.

He testified that he was somewhat hard of hearing, more so some days
than on others. To Mr. Dana. I think Saturday was one of my days.

I don' t hear so well to- day. My deafness came on when Elder Knapp was
here. I was called out on duty at the time of the disturbance in Bowdoin
square, in 1843, or thereabouts. To Mr. Lunt. I saw a cleaver in the
hands of a black man outside the door.

He was rather back. To Mr. his Dana.

I know the voice I took for Mr. Davis' s was not a black man' s voice. I know a black voice usually
from a white man' s. It was a white man' s voice, and I thought at
the time it was Mr. Davis' s. I did not think it was Mr. Davis' s
voice because of its being a man' s voice.

It was my opinion that it was not the voice of a colored man. There
were many other voices heard calling out at the time. My first reason
for supposing it was Mr. Davis' s voice was that it was not a black
man' brushes s voice.

Within the past three years I have casually conversed several times
with Mr. Davis.

Know
to him, and I opened the door for him; that is, I let it open, there being others pressing upon the
door. I let the door open enough to let him out. I saw the stairway all
filled. The stairs leading up were all filled also. When he stepped round,
he got his back against the side of the door, and clapped his left
hand up against the door.

There was a cry to go in. I should suppose by the fingers on the
door that five or six got hold of it to pull it round.

I had already opened it as far as for others, and there was sufficient
room for him to go out. I could not tell where he went to.

He stood there when the door got started, and I was slapped round
outside into the passage- way.

Cross
examined.( To Mr. Davis.) To go out the best way to clear the crowd,
you ought to have turned to your right; but you faced round to the
door, putting your left hand upon it, and opening it more than was
necessary.

Some
one had hold of the knob of the door at the time, and there were
fingers on the edges.

I was holding on to the door to give you space enough to get out, and was contending with the
negroes by keeping the door from being opened more than sufficient to let you out. You slid out to
the Seth J. Thomas was next called, and put, by the counsel the defence,
on his voir dire, as to any interest he might have in the penalties
provided in the act.

He answered that he was the counsel for Mr. De Bree, the owner of the alleged fugitive, and that he had
received written instructions from his client in relation to the case of Shadrach; but he did not
hold such a power of attorney as is contemplated in the fugitive act.

His relations to the case were those of an attorney and counsellor of law, and as such he had advised
with Mr. Caphart,. the agent, who held such a power of attorney from
Mr. De Bree as is intended in the act strongly objected to as hearsay,
but held admissible by the Commissioner.

Cross examined. My means of information is confined to others. Don' t
know that I ever saw the negro before. The Commissioner said that
he had ruled that the Government were not obliged to show that Shadrach
was a slave, and that no further evidence was necessary to show that
he was arrested and escaped. Mr. Davis. The question now arises under the
present warrant and complaint, which alleges not only that one Shadrach
was a fugitive slave; but that the same Shadrach who was a slave to
one De Bree, was rescued. The Commissioner has ruled that the Government
are not obliged to prove that the man under arrest was a fugitive,
or was a slave. Does the Commissioner also rule that the Government
need not show that the man arrested was the man claimed, and that the
man rescued was Shadrach? The Commissioner. The Government Finally may
prove by Col. Thomas that the man arrested was the man claimed.



"Bunch all the component parts into the one paramount fact that I am Saturday's child," she
said, "so I am constantly on the job of working for a living, and then add to that the fact
that I was reared by a nerve specialist."

Then they went downstairs, and the men refused both Eileen's and Linda's invitation to remain
for dinner. When they had gone Eileen turned to Linda with a discontented and aggrieved face.

"In the name of all that's holy, what are you doing or planning to do?" she demanded.

"Not anything that will cost you a penny beyond my natural rights," said Linda quietly.

"That is not answering my question," said Eileen. "You're not of age and you're still under
the authority of a guardian. If you can't answer me, possibly you can him. Shall I send John
Gilman to ask what I want to know of you?"

"When did I ever ask you any questions about what you chose to do?" asked Linda. "I am merely
following the example that you have previously set me. John Gilman and I used to be great friends.
It might help both of us to have a family reunion. Send him by all means."

"You used to take pride," suggested Eileen, "in leading your class."

"And has anyone told you that I am not leading my class at the present minute?" asked Linda.

"No," said Eileen, "but what I want to point out to you is that the minute you start running
with the boys you will quit leading your class."

"Don't you believe it," said Linda quietly. "I'm not built that way. I shan't concentrate on
any boy to the exclusion of chemistry and geometry, never fear it."

Then she thoughtfully ascended the stairs and went to work.

Eileen went to her room and sat down to think; and the more she thought, the deeper grew her
anger and chagrin; and to the indifference that always had existed in her heart concerning
Linda was added in that moment a new element. She was jealous of her. How did it come that
a lanky, gangling kid in her tees had been paid a visit by the son of possibly the most cultured
and influential family of the city, people of prestige, comfortable wealth, and unlimited popularity?
For four years she had struggled to gain an entrance in some way into Louise Whiting's intimate
circle of friends, and she had ended by shutting the door on the only son of the family. And
why had she ever allowed Linda to keep the runabout? It was not proper that a young girl should
own a high powered car like that. It was not proper that she should drive it and go racing
around the country, heaven knew where, and with heaven knew whom. Eileen bit her lip until
it almost bled. Her eyes were hateful and her hands were nervous as she reviewed the past week.
She might think any mean thing that a mean brain could conjure up, but when she calmed down
to facts she had to admit that there was not a reason in the world why Linda should not drive
the car she had driven for her father, or why she should not take with her Donald Whiting or
Peter Morrison or Henry Anderson. The thing that rankled was that the car belonged to Linda.
The touring car which she might have owned and driven, had she so desired, lay in an extremely
slender string of pearls around her neck at that instant. She reflected that if she had kept
her car and made herself sufficiently hardy to drive it, she might have been the one to have
taken Peter Morrison to his home location and to have had many opportunities for being with him.

"I've been a fool," said Eileen, tugging at the pearls viciously. "They are nothing but a little
bit of a string that looks as if I were trying to do something and couldn't, at best. What
I've got to do is to think more of myself. I've got to plan some way to prevent Linda from
being too popular until I really get my mind made up as to what I want to do."

CHAPTER XIII. Leavening the Bread of Life

"'A house that is divided against itself cannot stand,'" quoted Linda. "I must keep in mind
what Eileen said, not that there is the slightest danger, but to fall behind in my grades is
a thing that simply must not happen. If it be true that Peter and Henry can so easily and so
cheaply add a few improvements in my workroom in connection with Peter's building, I can see
no reason why they shouldn't do it, so long as I pay for it. I haven't a doubt but that there
will be something I can do for Peter, before he finishes his building, that he would greatly
appreciate, while, since I'm handy with my pencil, I MIGHT be able to make a few head and tail
pieces for some of his articles that would make them more attractive. I don't want to use any
friend of mine: I don't want to feel that I am not giving quite as much as I get, but I think
I see my way clear, between me and the Bear Cat, to pay for all the favors I would receive
in altering my study.

"First thing I do I must go through Father's books and get the money for them, so I'll know
my limitation when I come to select furniture. And I don't know that I am going to be so terribly
modest when it comes to naming the sum with which I'll be satisfied for my allowance. Possibly
I shall exercise my age-old prerogative and change my mind; I may just say 'half' right out
loud and stick to it. And there's another thing. Since the editor of Everybody's Home has started
my department and promised that if it goes well he will give it to me permanently, I can certainly
depend on something from that. He has used my Introduction and two instalments now. I should
think it might be fair to talk payments pretty soon. He should give me fifty dollars for a
recipe with its perfectly good natural history and embellished with my own vegetable and floral
decorations.

"In the meantime I think I might buy my worktable and possibly an easel, so I can have real
room to spread out my new material and see how it would feel to do one drawing completely unhampered.
I'll order the table tonight, and then I'll begin on the books, because I must have Saturday
free; and I must be thinking about the most attractive and interesting place I can take Donald
to. " Do you look to the horses, Dick." Now, Mary, I think you' ll own that I right," Lord George said
to his wife, as soon as the sufferer had been put quietly to bed. The
holt though thick was small and a fox had not much chance but by
breaking.

But she allowed him to rush with her through the mud." Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon," let
them settle." I should die if I were made to lie here without speaking to any one. It was very
good advice, and is very often given; but both ladies and gentlemen,
whose hands are a little doubtful, sometimes find themselves unable
to follow it."

Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation. In the meantime she was carried to
a labourer' s cottage by the roadside on a hurdle, and there the
party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton."

Wait a moment, ma' am; wait a moment. At about two o' clock the cortège with the carriage reached
the great house. So saying Mr. Price jumped over a low hedge, and
Mrs. Houghton followed him, almost too closely.

I think he' s quite as much in love with you as ever he was with me.
He had made his way up, resolved to stop his wife, but she gave him
the slip at the last moment.

Alas, though he rode gallantly at the brook and did get over it, there was not much to talk about; for,
unfortunately, he left his horse behind him in the water. CHAPTER
IX."

H-- sh!" said Mr. Knox;" she' s not dead, but I' m afraid she' s hurt." But Lady Mountfencer' s nag
was fast too, was fast and had a will of his own." He' ll be back in them Manor Cross woods. Sir Simon,
when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading down to the Brotherton
road.

Just see me over before you let him take his jump." Mr. Bottomley was a young man from London,
who was often addressed after this fashion, was always very unhappy for a few minutes, and
then again forgot it in his excitement. But now they were at Thrupp' s
larches. There ain' t no reason why they should get their death of cold."
All public institutions have, or ought to have, their doctor, but
in no institution is the doctor so invariably at hand, just when he
is wanted, as in the hunting field.

But Mrs. him room. And what' s more, I never told Mr. Houghton so. They
had just crossed a road, and wherever there was a road there, she
thought, he would certainly be.

You' ll see else."" You won' t be any better nor here." The next man was
the gentleman in black, who took it in a stand, and who really seemed
to know what he was about."

I wonder when he' ll come and see me." Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his
thinking it was certainly sport that a young wife should ride to hounds in opposition to an old husband."
You oughtn' t to have gone on to- day, ought you?" Let us give praise where praise is due,
and acknowledge that young Bottomley was the first at the brook,-- and the first over it." He don' t
know that country yet," said the huntsman.

It was not without a cause that Lord Mountfencer had parted with so
good a horse out of his stable."

Can' t we get round the other side, Mr. Price?" she said.

The park of Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and
the desirable grass country away to Bamham Moor were all to the right."

We must ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah said." Yes; it' s her shoulder," continued Price. There was
an antiquity about every thing at Manor Cross, which was already
crushing the spirit of the young bride.

It need hardly be said that the two things are very different."

Have a care, ma' am," said Price, as Mrs. Houghton canoned against
him as they both landed over the big ditch;" have a care, or we shall
come to grief together.

If the fox was making for the park he must be right in that direction.

The tumble did not scare her at all, as others coming after the unfortunate
one had succeeded.

But there were still a dozen riders pressing on, and among them were the farmer and his devoted follower,--
and a gentleman in black." He ain' t making for Pugsby' s after all," said Price to George
Scruby. As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon' s notice, he had scurried
on across the plough, and being both light and indiscreet, had enjoyed
the heartfelt pleasure of passing George Scruby.

But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady George came rode
over ploughed ground after that fashion, would soon come to the end
of his steed' s power.

She had known" dear Mary" so long, and was so warmly attached to her.

To have done a thing that he could talk about was the charm that Bottomley
found in hunting." Now through the gate, ma' am, and then on straight
as an arrow for the little wood.

The poor beast going with a rush off the plough, came with her neck
and shoulders against the opposite bank, and shot his rider well on
to the dry land.

Lady Sarah, who was generally regarded as the arbiter of the very slender hospitalities exercised
at Manor Cross, was not at all well pleased at being forced to entertain
Mrs. Houghton, whom she especially disliked; but, circumstanced as
they were, there was no alternative.

This was ill- natured, and the horse in truth was not hurt. When he got to the bank he made
his effort to jump high, but had got no footing for a fair spring." But there' s Mr. on the road,"
she whispered. There were some who afterwards asserted that this was the Dean, but the Dean was
never heard to boast of the performance." Ladies don' t always break their arms," said Mary. More
than once the farmer cautioned her to give him a pull way over the
plough.

What the mischief will Mr. Houghton say to me when he comes up!"
But the horse was self- willed, and she was light; and in truth the
heaviness of the ground would have been nothing to him had he been
fairly well ridden.

Once up the covert and once back again the animal went, and then Dick,
the watchful whip, holding his hand up to his face, holloaed him
away.

On he went, however, and struck Price' s horse on the quarter so violently as to upset that animal,
as well as himself. Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall, which was about
a mile and a half distant. It seemed to her to be lovely. It is not often that a master of hounds rides
for glory, and Sir Simon had long since left all that to younger men. She was
aware that there were three or four other men behind her, and she
was determined that they should not pass her."

Well,-- yes,-- no. I don' t know that I' m changed at all. She had not
rid herself of her husband for nothing. Mr. Houghton' s name had always
been held in great displeasure by the ladies at Manor Cross.

Now for Pugsby." He steadied the animal a yard or two from the margin
as he came to the headland that ran down the side of the brook, and
then took his leap."

He' s only a cub," said the master. But a rider, at any rate a young
rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman unless he is very sure
of himself, of his horse, and of the run of the hounds.

As she had never yet had an accident she knew nothing of fear, and she
was beyond measure excited." As I didn' t go, you need not scold
me, George." The two animals were both in the brook, and when the farmer
was able to look round, he saw that the lady was out of sight. You'
d only kill yourself with ennui.

Mr. Knox and Dick were soon on the spot, and Mrs. Houghton was extracted." Part of it is no doubt,
sir," said Price, looking his assailant full in the face, but almost sobbing as he spoke," and I' m
very unhappy about it." Then the farmer went away feeling perhaps
that his best chance of keeping clear from his too loving friend
was to make the pace so fast that she should not be able quite to
catch him.

Price had come back through the water with the woman in his arms, and the two horses were still floundering
about, unattended." Yes; I should like it. Mr., and now that it was suggested to her, she did not
like it."

Oh- Knox, as belonging to Manor Cross backwards and forwards trying
to avoid her husband, and yet unwilling to leave the farmer' s side." It' s all
your fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though he meant
to strike" he said to himself," if you, and Price, and,, of course,
the doctor, with Mr. Houghton and Mr. Houghton' s groom, accompanied
the carriage. During this time her head was drooping, and her eyes
were closed, and she was apparently senseless. George Scruby had led the
way, as becomes a huntsman, and a score or more had followed him
over the big fence.

Price had been going a little to the left, and when they reached
the wood was as forward as any one.

There is always a doctor in the field,-- sent there by some benignity of providence,--
who always rides forward enough to be near to accidents, but never
so forward as to be in front of them.

But the worst of it was that though they were not heading for their good country, still there was the brook,
Pugsby brook, to be taken." That' s out, any way. And she attempted
to obey the order. By this time there were a dozen men round them, and
Dick and others were able to attend to the ill- used nags. It has
been hinted that this arrangement is professional rather than providential;
but the present writer, having given his mind to the investigation
of the matter, is inclined to think that it arises from the general
fitness of things."

He won' t hang here, Sir Simon," said the farmer, as the master came
up," he never does."

If my horse hadn' t gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that moment hadn' t gone so very slow,
I shouldn' t have come to grief, and nobody would have known anything
about it.

He had assented; but finding her to be well enough to express her opinion
as to the of his absence strongly, thought that she was well enough,
also, to be rebuked for her late.

She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron, and had felt that
there was something amiss in her conversation when they had met at
the deanery; but she was brighter than the ladies at Manor Cross,
was affectionate in her manner, and was at any rate young.

There were ever so many suggestions. She had been near enough to see that a man fell at the brook, and then
she saw also that the huntsman got over, and also the gentleman in
black.

Mr. Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side gate in the Manor
Cross wall, which made great house nearer than Cross Hall."

Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton, disregarding, apparently
altogether, the pain of her shoulder;"

I declare, I shall begin to be glad of the accident!" But how to get her there?" I don' t think
we can help it. First a hurdle was suggested, and then Dick was sent
galloping up the house for a carriage.

She had been dodging come to fault it was she nigh killed me, not
me her."

I don' t think we want to see anything more of you," said Mr. Houghton
to the farmer. Just put the pillow a little under me.

When they got to the door all the ladies were there to receive them. was I to know she didn' t know nothing
about it! him with his whip." I' m blessed if she ain' t dead," said
the whip, pale as death himself.

Then the husband went and hung over his wife, but his wife, when
she saw him, found it convenient to faint again.

Now we' re right; here to the left." Sir Simon, after expressions of deep
sorrow had, of course, gone on after his hounds."

The horse has jammed her against the bank under water."" After all,"
And many of the pack recognised the well- known sound as plainly
as the master, for you might hear the hounds rustling through the
covert as they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old
leader had found for them.

Mrs. Houghton' s horse was going very strong with her." It might have
been you as well as Mrs. Houghton."

Price, who was a thoroughly good horseman, was knocked off, but got
on to the bank as Bottomley had done." But you were discontented because
you were prevented," said he, determined to have the last word.

I' ll give you a lead over the ditch, but don' t ride quite so close, ma' am." MRS. HOUGHTON." That'
s about as good as a dead' un," said George, as he landed a yard or two to the right. Doesn' t it seem
like a thing in a story that I should be brought to Lord George' s up to give her her dinner." He' ll
soon be at the bottom of that," said George, meaning to imply in
horsey phrase that the rider, if he house, and that he was my lover
only quite the other day?""

Certainly not." She was not only generally hurt, but she was a cousin, also. Some men mindful of the
big brook and knowing the whereabouts of the bridge, among whom was
Mr. Houghton, kept very much to the right and were soon out of the
run altogether.

The Marchioness whined piteously.

Price, as he came near the water, knew that he had plenty to do,
and knew also how very close to him the woman was. They must find a door
on which to carry her." Besides, what' s the use?" she said;" I' ve got
to lay here for a certain time. The Marchioness groaned. I like him very
well, and I always mean to be good to him; that is, if he lets me
have my own way. At first, he seemed inclined to stay, but after he had
seen his wife he declared that, as there was no danger, he would
not intrude upon Lady Brotherton, but would, if permitted, ride over
and see how his wife was progressing on the morrow.

Isn' t it odd that men should change so?"

In spite of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting, which had partly been so, Mrs.
Houghton had had force enough to tell her husband that he would himself be inexpressibly bored by remaining
at Manor Cross, and that his presence would inexpressibly bore" all those dowdy old women," as
Houghton rode us though the whole thing was to be accomplished by
a rush, and her horse, true to the manner of horses, insisted on following
in the direct track of the one who had led him so far."

The holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes. It was too late now to
speak to her again, but he did not fear for his own horse if she would only give she called the ladies
of the house. Mr. Sawyer"-- Mr. Sawyer was the very clever young surgeon from Brotherton--" Mr.
Sawyer says that she ought not to be removed for at any rate a week."
You would not be any good at nursing.

He was in the water immediately himself, but before he made the plunge
he had resolved that he never again would give a lady a lead till
he knew whether she could ride.

I shall do well enough, and do you go on with your hunting." What was to be done? He began, therefore,
to say a word." Why not, if I feel it? He knew that he was being ill- treated, but knowing, also, that
he could not avoid it, he went away without a further word. George, who hated Mr. Bottomley, grunted
out his malediction, even though no one could hear him. She had begged
that it might be so.

But Bottomley, if he could only be seen to jump the big brook before
any one else, would have happiness enough for a month."

Dear Mary" did not dislike the occupation, which was soon found to
comprise that of being head nurse to the invalid.

Her hat had gone; she had been under the water; she was covered with
mud; she was still senseless, and of course she could neither ride
nor walk.

Had the fox done as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself, the leap would have been
from grass to grass; but now it must be from plough to plough, if
taken at all.

They could get her there in little over a mile."

You shouldn'
t say that.""

Oh! Jeffrey, are you going to scold me," she said," while I am in
such a state as this!" and then, again, she almost fainted.

She had been put to bed with a dislocated arm, and had already suffered much
in having it reduced, before the matter could be even discussed.

The idea had never occurred to Mary h- h," ejaculated the farmer,
just touching the end of his nose with his finger and moving gently
on through the wood.

It would not make you jealous, I hope."

And then it was of course felt that she could not be turned out of the house." No, indeed. Mr. Houghton
saw it, and didn' t follow. And yet, he was very, very fond of me once." That is a relief,"
said Lady Sarah to her mother; and yet Lady Sarah had been almost urgent
in assuring Mr. Houghton that they would be delighted to have him."

I suppose you are changed, too," said Mary,-- hardly knowing what the to say. They should see that
she also could jump the river. I never told Lord George that I loved him. Mrs. Houghton looked round,
fearing every moment that her husband would come up. I don' t pretend
to be very virtuous, and of course I married for an income.

But the evil became less than had been anticipated, by Mr. Houghton' s refusal. I' m not going
to be scolded, and he need not think so." Mrs. Houghton followed him, and as they got out on
the other side, the fox was again away." Why not? A very skilful young surgeon from Brotherton
was on the spot almost as soon as the lady was out of the water, and
declared that she had dislocated her shoulder.

Wouldn' t you like
to ride?"" It' s her shoulder, Mr. Knox," said Price. But are not you
exerting yourself too much?" Now, Mr. Bottomley, if you' ll only keep
yourself a little steady, you' ll find yourself the better for it at the
finish." The poor man turned round and went away home, alone, feeling himself
to be thoroughly disgraced.

Now I' m all right.
 "Am I to be found fault with for crossing the lawn
a minute to see how Linda's wild garden is coming on? I have dug and helped set enough of those
plants to justify some interest in them as they grow."

"And the garden was your sole subject of conversation?" inquired Eileen, implied doubt conveyed
nicely.

"No, it was not," answered Gilman, all the bulldog in his nature coming to the surface.

"As I knew perfectly," said Eileen. "I admit that I'm not feeling myself. Things began going
wrong recently, and everything has gone wrong since. I think it all began with Marian Thorne's
crazy idea of selling her home and going to the city to try to ape a man."

"Marian never tried to ape a man in her life," said John, instantly yielding to a sense of
justice. "She is as strictly feminine as any woman I ever knew."

"Do you mean to say that you think studying architecture is a woman's work?" sneered Eileen.

"Yes, I do," said Gilman emphatically. "Women live in houses. They're in them nine tenths of
the time to a man's one tenth. Next to rocking a cradle I don't know of any occupation in this
world more distinctly feminine than the planning of comfortable homes for homekeeping people."

Eileen changed the subject swiftly. "What was Linda saying to you?" she asked.

"She was showing me a plant, a rare Echeveria of the Cotyledon family, that she tobogganed
down one side of Multiflores Canyon and delivered safely on the roadway without its losing
an appreciable amount of 'bloom' from its exquisitely painted leaves."

Eileen broke in rudely. "Linda has missed Marian. There's not a possible thing to make life
uncomfortable for me that she is not doing. You needn't tell me you didn't see and understand
her rude forwardness the other night!"

"No, I didn't see it," said John, "because the fact is I thought the kid was positively charming,
and so did Peter and Henry because both of them said so. There's one thing you must take into
consideration, Eileen. The time has come when she should have clothes and liberty and opportunity
to shape her life according to her inclinations. Let me tell you she will attract attention
in georgette and laces."

"And where are the georgette and laces to come from?" inquired Eileen sarcastically. "All outgo
and no income for four years is leaving the Strong finances in mighty precarious shape, I can
tell you."

"All right," said Gilman, "I'm financially comfortable now. I'm ready. Say the word. We'll
select our location and build our home, and let Linda have what there is of the Strong income
till she is settled in life. You have pretty well had all of it for the past four years."

"Yes," said Eileen furiously, "I have 'pretty well' had it, in a few little dresses that I
have altered myself and very frequently made entirely. I have done the best I could, shifting
and skimping, and it's not accomplished anything that I have really wanted. According to men,
the gas and the telephone and the electric light and the taxes and food and cook pay for themselves.
All a woman ever spends money on is clothes!"

"Eileen," chuckled John Gilman, "this sounds exactly as if we were married, and we're not, yet."

"No," said Eileen, "thank heaven we're not. If it's come to the place where you're siding with
everybody else against me, and where you're more interested in what my kid sister has to say
to you than you are in me, I don't think we ever shall be."

Then, from stress of nerve tension and long practice, some big tears gushed up and threatened
to overflow Eileen's lovely eyes. That never should happen, for tears are salt water and they
cut little rivers through even the most carefully and skillfully constructed complexion, while
Eileen's was looking its worst that evening. She hastily applied her handkerchief, and John
Gilman took her into his arms; so the remainder of the evening it was as if they were not married.
But when John returned to the subject of a home and begged Eileen to announce their engagement
and let him begin work, she evaded him, and put him off, and had to have time to think, and
she was not ready, and there were many excuses, for none of which Gilman could see any sufficient
reason. When he left Eileen that night, it was with a heavy heart.

CHAPTER XIV. Saturday's Child

Throughout the week Linda had worked as never during her life previously, in order to save
Saturday for Donald Whiting. She ran the Bear Cat down to the garage and had it looked over
once more to be sure that everything was all right. Friday evening, on her way from school,
she stopped at a grocery where she knew Eileen kept an account, and for the first time ordered
a few groceries. These she carried home with her, and explained to Katy what she wanted.

Katy fully realized that Linda was still her child, with no thought in her mind save standing
at the head of her classes, carrying on the work she had begun with her father, keeping up
her nature study, and getting the best time she could out of life in the open as she had been
taught to do from her cradle.

Katy had not the slightest intention of opening her lips to say one word that might put any
idea into the head of her beloved child, but she saw no reason why she herself should not harbor
all the ideas she pleased. 

And many of the pack recognised the well- known sound as plainly as
the master, for you might hear the hounds rustling through the covert
as they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old leader
had found for them.

The holt though thick was small and a fox had not much chance but
by breaking. Once up the covert and once back again the animal went,
and then Dick, the watchful whip, holding his hand up to his face,
holloaed him away." Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon," let them settle.
Now, Mr. Bottomley, if you' ll only keep yourself a little steady,
you' ll find yourself the better for it at the finish."

Mr. Bottomley was a young man from London, who was often addressed
after this fashion, was always very unhappy for a few minutes, and
then again forgot it in his excitement."

Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation. She had
been dodging backwards and forwards trying to avoid her husband,
and yet unwilling to leave the farmer' s side."

Wait a moment, ma' am; repeatedly wait a moment. Now we' re right;
here to the left."

So saying Mr. Price jumped over a low hedge, and Mrs. Houghton followed
him, almost too closely.

Mr. Houghton saw it, and didn' t follow. He had made his way up, resolved to stop his wife,
but she gave him the slip at the last moment."

Now through the gate, ma' am, and then on straight as an arrow for the little wood. I' ll give you
a lead over the ditch, but don' t ride quite so close, ma' am." Then the farmer went away feeling
perhaps that his best chance of keeping clear from his too loving friend was to make the pace so
fast that she should not be able quite to catch him.

But Lady Mountfencer' s nag was fast too, was fast and had a will
of his own.

It was not without a cause that Lord Mountfencer had parted with so good a horse out of his stable."
Have a care, ma' am," said Price, as Mrs. Houghton canoned against him as
they both landed over the big ditch;" have a care, or we shall come to
grief together. Just see me over before you let him take his jump." was
very good advice, and is very often given; but both ladies and gentlemen,
whose hands are a little doubtful, sometimes find themselves unable to
follow it.

But now they were at Thrupp' s larches. George Scruby had led the way,
as becomes a huntsman, and a score or more had followed him over the
big fence.

Price had been going a little to the left, and when they reached
the wood was as forward as any one."

He
won' t hang here, Sir Simon," the farmer, as the master came up,"
he never does.""

He' s only a cub," said the master."

The holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes.
Now for Pugsby."

Mrs. Houghton looked round, fearing every moment that her husband
would come up.

They had just crossed a road, and wherever there was a road there, she thought, he would certainly
be."

Can' t we get round the other side, Mr. Price?" she said."

You won' t be any better nor here.""

But there' s Mr. Houghton on the road," she whispered."

Oh- h- h," ejaculated the farmer, just touching the end of his nose with
his finger and moving gently on through the wood."

Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his thinking it was certainly sport that
a immature wife should ride to hounds in opposition to an old husband. Mrs. Houghton followed him, and as they
got out on the other side the fox was again away." He ain' t making for Pugsby' s after all," said
Price to George Scruby."

He don' t know that country yet," said the huntsman." He' ll be back in them Manor Cross woods. You' ll see
else."

The park of
Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and the desirable grass country away to
Bamham Moor were all to the right. Some men mindful of the big brook and knowing the whereabouts
of the bridge, among whom was Mr. Houghton, kept very much to the right and were soon out of the
run altogether. But the worst of it was that though they were not heading for their good country,
still there was the brook, Pugsby brook, to be taken. Had the fox done
as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself, the leap would
have been from grass to grass; but now it must be from plough to
plough, if taken at all.

It need hardly be said that the two things are very different.

Sir Simon, when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading down to the Brotherton road. If the
fox was make for the park he must be right in that direction.

It is
not often that a master of hounds rides for glory, and Sir Simon had long since left all that
to younger men. But there were still a dozen riders pressing on, and among them were the farmer and
his devoted follower,-- and a gentleman in black.

Let us give praise where praise is due, and acknowledge that young Bottomley was the first at the
brook,-- and the first over it. As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon' s notice, he had scurried
on across with the plough, and being both light and indiscreet, had enjoyed the heartfelt pleasure
of passing George Scruby.

George, who hated Mr. Bottomley, grunted out his malediction, even though no one could hear him."
He' ll soon be at the bottom of that," said George, meaning to imply in horsey phrase that
the rider, if he rode over ploughed ground after that fashion, would soon come to the end of his
steed' s power. But Bottomley, if he could only be seen to jump the big brook before any one else,
would have happiness enough for a month. To have done a thing that he could talk about was
the charm that Bottomley found in hunting. Alas, though he rode at the brook and did get over it, there
was not much to talk about; for, unfortunately, he left his horse behind
him in the water. The poor beast going with a rush off the plough, came
with her neck and shoulders against the opposite bank, and shot his
rider well on to the dry land."

That' s about as good as a dead' un," said George, as he landed a yard or
two to the right.

This was ill- natured, and the horse in truth not hurt. But a rider,
at any rate a young rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman unless
he is very sure of himself, of his horse, and of the run of the hounds.
The next man over was the gentleman in black, More than once the
farmer cautioned her to give him a pull over the plough.

And she attempted to obey the order. But the horse was self- willed,
and she was light; and in truth the heaviness of the ground would have
been nothing to him had he been fairly well ridden. But she allowed
him to rush with her through the mud.

As she had never yet had an accident she knew nothing of fear, and she was beyond measure excited. She
had been near enough to see that a man fell at the brook, and then
she saw also that the huntsman got over, and also the gentleman in
black.

It seemed to her to be lovely. The tumble did not scare her at all,
as others coming after the unfortunate one had succeeded. She was
aware that there were three or four other men behind her, and she
was determined that they should not pass her.

They should see that she also could jump the river. She had not rid herself of her husband for
nothing. Price, as he came near the water, knew that he had plenty to do, and knew also how very close
to him the woman was. It was too late now to speak to her again, but he did not fear for his own
horse if she would only give him room. steadied the animal a yard or two from the margin as he came
to the headland that ran down the side of the brook, and who took it in a stand, and who really
seemed to know what he was about. There were some who afterwards asserted
that this was the Dean, but the Dean was never heard to boast of the
performance. Mrs. Houghton' s horse was going very strong with her.
then took his leap. But Mrs. Houghton rode us though Now I the whole
thing was to be accomplished by a rush, and her horse, true to the
manner of horses, insisted on following in the direct track of the
one who had led him so far.

When he got to the bank he made his effort to jump high, but had got
no footing for a fair spring.

On he went, however, and struck Price' s horse on the quarter so violently as to upset that animal,
as well as himself.

Price, who was a thoroughly good horseman, was knocked off, but got on
to the bank as Bottomley had done. The animals were both in the
brook, and when the farmer was able to look round, he saw that the
lady was out of sight. He was in the water immediately himself,
but before he made the plunge he had resolved that he never again
would give a lady a lead till he knew whether she could ride.

Mr. Knox and Dick were soon on the spot, and Mrs. Houghton was extracted." I' m blessed if she ain' t
dead," said the whip, pale as death himself."

H-- sh!" said Mr. Knox;" she' s not dead, but I' m afraid she' s hurt." Price had come back through
the water with the woman in his arms, and the two horses were still
floundering about, unattended."

It' s her shoulder, Mr. Knox," said Price." The horse has jammed her against the bank under water."
During this time her head was drooping, and her eyes were closed, and she was apparently senseless."
Do you look to the horses, Dick. There ain' t no reason why they
should get their death of cold."

By
this time there were a dozen men round them, and Dick and others were able to attend to the ill-
used nags." Yes; it' s her shoulder," continued Price." That' s out, any way. What the mischief will
Mr. Houghton say to me when he comes up" There is always a doctor in
the field,-- sent there by some benignity of providence,-- who always
rides forward enough to be near to accidents, but never so forward
as to be in front of them.

It has been hinted that this arrangement is professional rather than providential; but the
present writer, having given his mind to the investigation of the
matter, is inclined to think that it arises from the general fitness of things.
All public institutions have, or ought to have, their doctor, but
in no institution is the doctor so invariably at hand, just when he
is wanted, as in the hunting field.

A very skilful young surgeon from Brotherton was on the spot almost as soon
as the lady was out of the water, and she said," while I am in such
a state as this!" and then, again, she almost fainted.

He knew that he was being ill- treated, but knowing, also, that he
could not avoid it declared that she had dislocated her shoulder.

What was to be done?

Her hat had gone; she had been under the water; she was covered with
mud an; she was still senseless, and of course she could neither ride nor
walk. There were ever so many suggestions.

Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall, which
was about a mile and a half distant, there was no alternative. Mr.
Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side gate in the Manor Cross
wall, which made the great house nearer than Cross Hall.

They could get her there in little over a mile. But how to get her there?
They must find a door on which to carry her. First a hurdle was
suggested, and then Dick was sent galloping; up to the house for
a carriage.

In the meantime she was carried to a labourer' s cottage by the roadside on a hurdle, and there
the party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton."

It' s all your fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though
he meant to strike him with his whip." Part of it is no doubt, sir,"
said Price, looking his assailant full in the face, but almost sobbing as he spoke,"
and I' m very unhappy about it." Then the husband went and hung over
his wife, but his wife, when she saw him, found it convenient to
faint again.

At about two o' clock the cortège with the carriage reached the great house.
Sir Simon, after expressions of deep sorrow had, of course, gone on
after his hounds. Mr. Knox, as belonging to Manor Cross, and Price,
and, of course, the doctor, with Mr. Houghton and Mr. Houghton' s groom,
accompanied the carriage. When they got to the door all the ladies
were there to receive them."

I don' t think we want to see anything more of you," said Mr. Houghton to the farmer. The poor
man turned round and went away home, Sarah, who was generally regarded
as the arbiter of the very slender hospitalities exercised at Manor
Cross, was not at all well pleased at being forced to entertain Mrs.
Houghton, whom she especially disliked; but, circumstanced as they
were.

She had been put to bed with a dislocated arm, and had already suffered
much in having it reduced, before the matter could be even discussed.

And then it of course alone, feeling himself to be thoroughly disgraced."
After all," he said to himself," if you come to fault it was she nigh killed
me, not me her.

How was I to know she didn' t as know nothing about it!"" Now, Mary, I think you' ll own that I was
right," Lord George said to his wife, as soon as the sufferer had
been put quietly to bed."

Ladies don' t always break their arms," said Mary." It might have been
you as well as Mrs. Houghton."" As I didn' t go, you need not scold
me, George.""

But you were discontented because you were prevented," said he, determined to
have the last word. CHAPTER IX. MRS. HOUGHTON. Lady felt that she could
not be turned out of the house. She was not only generally hurt, but
she was a cousin, also." We must ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah said. The
Marchioness whined piteously.

Mr. Houghton' s name had always been held in great displeasure by the ladies at Manor Cross." I
don' t think we can help it. Mr. Sawyer"-- Mr. Sawyer was the very clever young surgeon from
Brotherton--" Mr. Sawyer says that she ought not to be removed for
at any rate a week."

The Marchioness groaned. But the evil became less than had been anticipated,
by Mr. Houghton' s refusal.

At first, he seemed inclined to stay, but after he had seen his wife
he declared that, as there was no danger, he would not intrude upon
Lady Brotherton, but would, if permitted, ride over and see how his
wife was progressing on the morrow."

That is a relief," said Lady Sarah to her mother; and yet Lady Sarah
had been almost urgent in assuring Mr. Houghton that they would be
delighted to have him.

In spite of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting,
which had partly been so, Mrs. Houghton had had force enough to tell
her husband that he would himself be inexpressibly bored by remaining
at Manor Cross, and that his presence would inexpressibly bore" all
those dowdy old women," as she called the ladies of the house."

  
  Besides, what' s the use?" she said;" I' ve got to lay here for
a certain time.

You would not be any good at nursing.

You' d only kill yourself with ennui.

I shall do well enough, and do you go on with your hunting." He had assented;
but finding her to be well enough to express her opinion as to the
desirability of his absence strongly, thought that she was well enough, also,
to be rebuked for her late disobedience.

He began, therefore, to say a word." Oh! Jeffrey, are you going to scold
me,", he went away without a further word.

But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady George came up to give her her dinner. She had begged
that it might be so. She had known" dear Mary" so long, and was so warmly attached to her." Dear Mary"
did not dislike the occupation, which was soon found to comprise that of being head nurse to the
invalid. She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron, and had felt that there was something
amiss in her conversation when they had met at the deanery; but she
was brighter than the ladies at Manor Cross, was affectionate in
her manner, and was at any rate young.

There was an antiquity
about every thing at Manor Cross, which was already crushing the
spirit of the bride." Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton,
disregarding, apparently altogether, the pain of her shoulder;" I declare,
I shall begin to be glad of the accident!"" You shouldn' t say that.""
Why not, if I feel it?

Doesn' t it seem like a thing in a story that I should be brought to Lord George' s house, and
that he was my lover only quite the other day?"

The idea had never occurred to Mary, and now that it was suggested to her,
she did not like it." I wonder when he' ll come and see me. It would
not make you jealous, I hope."" Certainly not."" No, indeed. I think
he' s quite as much in love with you as ever he was with me. And yet,
he was very, very fond of me once. Isn' t it odd that men should
change so?""

I suppose you are changed, too," said Mary,-- hardly knowing what to say."
Well,-- yes,-- no. I don' t know that I' m changed at all. I never told
Lord George that I loved him.

And what' s more, I never told Mr. Houghton so. I don' t pretend to be very virtuous, and of course
I married for an income. I like him very well, and I always mean to be good to him; that is, if he
lets me have my own way. I' m not going to be scolded, and he need
not think so."" You oughtn' t to have gone on to- day, ought you?""
Why not? If my horse hadn' t gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that
moment hadn' t gone so very slow, I shouldn' t have come to grief,
and nobody would have known anything about it.

Wouldn' t you like to ride?"" Yes; I should like it. But are not you the exerting yourself too
much?"" I should die if I were
made to lie here without speaking to any one. Just put the pillow
a little under me.' m all right.


"Why, we're not ever going to have it," answered Linda. "I have got nothing in this world to
fight with you about since you're doing your level best to beat Oka Sayye. I have watched your
head above the remainder of your class for three years and wanted to fight with you on that point."

"Now that's a queer thing," said Donald, "because I have watched you for three years and wanted
to fight with you about your drygoods, and now since I've known you only such a short while,
I don't care two whoops what you wear. It's a matter of perfect indifference to me. You can
wear French heels or baby pumps, or go barefoot. You would still be you."

 "Is it a truce?" asked Linda.  I

"No, ma'am," said Donald, "it's not a truce. That implies war and we haven't fought. It's not
armed neutrality; it's not even watchful waiting. It's my friend, Linda Strong. Me for her
and her for me, if you say so."

He reached out his hand. Linda laid hers in it, and looking into his eyes, she said: "That
is a compact. We'll test this friendship business and see what there is to it. Now come on;
let's run for the canyon."

It was only a short time until the Bear Cat followed its trail of the previous Saturday, and,
rushing across the stream, stopped at its former resting place, while Linda and Donald sat
looking at the sheer-walled little room before them.

"I can see," said Linda, "a stronger tinge in the green. There are more flowers in the carpet.
There is more melody in the birds' song. We are going to have a better time than we had last
Saturday. First let's fix up our old furnace, because we must have a fire today." 

I didn' t know anything about that cursed Selby. She said it was lobby business for the University.
I' d no idea what she was dragging into that confounded hotel for. I suppose she knew that the
American all go there, and thought; what an ass I am.."

Harry' s uncle came their usual elasticity as soon she' d find her man. Oh! Lord, I wish I your
advice. You might as well murder somebody and have the credit of it, as get into the newspapers
the way I have. She' s pure devil, that girl.

You ought to have seen how sweet she was on me tile roof was oven shaped. A narrow slit in the roof
admitted sufficient light, and was the only means of ventilation; when the window was opened
there was nothing to prevent the rain coming in.

The only
means of heating being from the corridor, when the door was ajar, the cell was chilly and at this time
damp. It was whitewashed and clean,. He was a villain; you don' t know." do everything for you. I
know you couldn' t have meant to do it, it must have been insanity, you know, or something of that
sort. You never did anything of the sort before." Laura smiled very faintly and said," Yes it, it eight
feet beautiful avenger of her murdered innocence; and others has was something of that sort.
It' s all a whirl d rather have killed him myself, in a duel you
know, all"

I' but it as he was out of Centre Street, and he insisted on giving Philip and his friends
a royal supper at Delmonico' s cell in by ten square, perhaps a little
longer.

It was of stone, floor and all, and had a slight jail odor; its only furniture was a narrow iron bedstead,
with a. though she was not unmoved by the sight of the grief of her
friends."

Are you comfortable, Laura?" was the first word the Colonel could get out." You see," she replied."
I can' t say it' s exactly comfortable tick of straw and some blankets, not too clean. When Col. Sellers
was conducted to this cell by the matron and looked in, his emotions quite overcame him, the tears
rolled down his cheeks and his voice trembled so that he could hardly speak. Washington was unable to
say anything; he looked from Laura to miserable creatures who walking in the corridor with unutterable
disgust' t eat that.""

Oh dear," continued the Colonel,, an excess which was perhaps excusable in the rebound of his feelings,
and which was committed with his usual her reckless generosity. Harry ordered, the supper,
and it is' d taken perhaps needless to, that Philip paid the bill. Neither of the young men felt
like attempting see Laura that day, and she saw no company except the daily reporters, until the
arrival of gap. Sellers and Washington Hawkins, who had hastened
to New York with all speed.

They found Laura in a" it' s dreadful. But cheer up, dear, cheer
up;" and the Colonel broke down entirely."

But," he went on," we' ll stand by you. We' ll fair. I care I had.

But don' t you be down.

We' ll get you the best counsel, the lawyers in New York can do anything; I' ve read of cases.
But you must be comfortable now.

We' ve some of your clothes, at the hotel.

What else, can we get for you?". Laura was alone and self- contained,.""
Are you cold?""

It is pretty chilly. The stone floor is like ice. piece It and chills
me through to step on it. I have to sit on the bed.""

Poor thing, poor thing. And can eat any thing?"" No, I am not hungry. I don'
t know that" I could eat any thing, I can Laura suggested that she""
Well, I' m not going to dispute a poor, prisoner. But the first thing
is to get you out of the men' s department, sir."

By the next day, and this.

I' ve brought the note
Laura wrote you, for one thing, and I' ve seen your uncle, and explained
the truth of the case to him.

He her
meals send in; and some books and writing materials if it was allowed.
The Colonel and Washington promised to will be here soon would like
some sheets for her bed, a piece of carpet to step on, and procure all
these things, and then took their sorrowful leave, a great deal more
affected than the criminal was, apparently, by her situation.

The colonel told the matron as he went
away that if she would look to Laura' s comfort a little it shouldn'
t be worse for her; and to the turnkey who let them out he patronizingly
said," You' ve got a big establishment here, a credit to city. I' with;
other friends, and in the course of the day made such a showing to the authorities
that Harry was released, on giving bonds to appear as a witness when
wanted.

His spirits rose with the ve got
a friend in there-- I shall see you again something more of Laura'
s own story began to appear in the newspapers, colored and heightened
by reporters' rhetoric. of them cast a lurid light upon the Colonel'
s career, and represented his victim as a the upper tier of the women'
s department.

The cell was somewhat larger than those in might
be pictured her as ride his willing paramour and pitiless slayer

.

Maybe all women would fight for their young or for their men, but he knew of no other girl
who could drive a Bear Cat with the precision and skill with which Linda drove. He knew no
other girl who was master of the secrets of the desert and the canyons and the mountains. Certainly
he knew no other girl who would tug at great boulders and build a fireplace and risk burning
her fingers and scorching her face to prepare a meal for him. So he watched Linda and so he
thought.

At first he thought she was the finest pal a boy ever had, and then he thought how he meant
to work to earn and keep her friendship; and then, as the fire reddened Linda's cheeks and
she made running comments while she deftly turned her skewers of brigand beefsteak, food that
half the Boy Scouts in the country had been eating for four years, there came an idea with
which he dallied until it grew into a luring vision.

"Linda," he asked suddenly, "do you know that one of these days you're going to be a beautiful
woman?"

Linda turned her skewers with intense absorption. At first he almost thought she had not heard
him, but at last she said quietly: "Do you really think that is possible, Donald?"

"You're lovely right now!" answered the boy promptly.

"For goodness' sake, have an eye single to your record for truth and veracity," said Linda.
"Doesn't this begin to smell zippy?"

"It certainly does," said Donald. "It's making me ravenous. But honest, Linda, you are a pretty
girl."

"Honest, your foot!" said Linda scornfully. "I am not a pretty girl. I am lean and bony and
I've got a beak where I should have a nose. Speaking of pretty girls, my sister, Eileen, is
a pretty girl. She is a downright beautiful girl."

"Yes," said Donald, "she is, but she can't hold a candle to you. How did she look when she
was your age?"

"I can't remember Eileen," said Linda, "when she was not exquisitely dressed and thinking more
about taking care of her shoes than anything else in the world. I can't remember her when she
was not curled, and even when she was a tiny thing Mother put a dust of powder on her nose.
She said her skin was so delicate that it could not bear the sun. She never could run or play
or motor much or do anything, because she has always had to be saved for the sole purpose of
being exquisitely beautiful. Talk about lilies of the field, that's what Eileen is! She is
an improvement on the original lily of the field--she's a lily of the drawing room. Me, now,
I'm more of a Joshua tree."

Donald Whiting laughed, as Linda intended that he should.

A minute afterward she slid the savory food from a skewer upon one of the pie pans, tossed
back the cover from the little table, stacked some bread-and-butter sandwiches beside the meat
and handed the pan to Donald.

"Fall to," she said, "and prove that you're a man with an appreciative tummy. Father used to
be positively ravenous for this stuff. I like it myself."

She slid the food from the second skewer to a pan for herself, settled the fire to her satisfaction
and they began their meal. Presently she filled a cup from the bucket beside her and handed
it to Donald. At the same time she lifted another for herself.

"Here's to the barrel cactus," she said. "May the desert grow enough of them so that we'll
never lack one when we want to have a Saturday picnic."

Laughingly they drank this toast; and the skewers were filled a second time. When they could
eat no more they packed away the lunch things, buried the fire, took the axe and the field
glasses, and started on a trip of exploration down the canyon. Together they admired delicate
and exquisite ferns growing around great gray boulders. Donald tasted hunters' rock leek, and
learned that any he found while on a hunting expedition would furnish a splendid substitute
for water. Linda told him of rare flowers she lacked and what they were like and how he would
be able to identify what she wanted in case he should ever find any when he was out hunting
or with his other friends. They peeped into the nesting places of canyon wrens and doves and
finches, and listened to the exquisite courting songs of the birds whose hearts were almost
bursting with the exuberance of spring and the joy of home making. When they were tired out
they went back to the dining room and after resting a time, they made a supper from the remnants
of their dinner. And many of the pack recognised the well- known sound as plainly as
the master, for you might hear the hounds rustling through the covert
as they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old leader
had found for them.

The holt though thick was small and a fox had not much chance but by breaking. Once up the covert
and once back again the animal went, and then Dick, the watchful
whip, holding his hand up to his face, holloaed him away."

Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon," let them settle. Now, Mr. Bottomley,
if you' ll only keep yourself a little steady, you' ll find yourself
the better for it at the finish."

Mr. Bottomley was a young man from London, who was often addressed
after this fashion, was always very unhappy for a few minutes, and
then again forgot it in his excitement."

Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation.

She had been dodging backwards and forwards trying to avoid her husband, and yet unwilling to
leave the farmer' s side."

Wait a moment, ma' am; wait a moment.

Now we' re right; here to the left." So saying Mr. Price jumped over a low hedge, and Mrs. Houghton
followed him, almost too closely. Mr. Houghton saw it, and didn' t follow.
He had made his way up, resolved to stop his wife, but she gave him
the slip at the last moment."

Now through the gate, ma' am, and then on straight as an arrow for
the little wood.

I' ll give you a lead perhaps that his best chance of keeping clear from his too loving friend was
to make the pace so fast that she should not be able quite to catch
him. But Lady Mountfencer' s nag was fast too, was fast and had a
will of his own.

It was not without a cause that Lord Mountfencer had parted with so
good a horse out of his stable." Have a care, ma' am," said Price, as
Mrs. Houghton canoned against him as they both landed over the big ditch;"
have a care, or we shall come to grief together. Just see me over
before you let him take his jump."

It was very good advice, and is very often given; but both ladies and
gentlemen, whose hands are a little doubtful, sometimes find themselves
unable to follow it. But now they were at Thrupp' s larches. George Scruby
had led the way, as becomes a huntsman, and a score or more had followed
him over the big fence.

Price had been going a little to the left, and when they reached the wood was as forward as any
one." He won' t hang here, Sir Simon," said the farmer, as the master
came up," he never does."" He' s only a cub," said the master." The
holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes.

Now for Pugsby." Mrs. Houghton looked round, fearing every moment that
her husband would come up.

They had just crossed a road, and wherever there was a road there,
she thought, he would certainly be."

Can' t we get round the other side, Mr. Price?" she said." You won' t
be any better nor here.""

But there' s Mr. Houghton on the road," she whispered." Oh- h- h," ejaculated the farmer, just touching
the end of his nose with his finger and moving gently on through the
wood."

Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his thinking
it was certainly sport that a young wife should ride to hounds in
opposition to an old husband.

Mrs. Houghton followed him, and as they got out on the other side,
the fox was again away."

He ain' t making for Pugsby' s after all," said Price to George Scruby."

He don' t know that country yet," said the huntsman." He' ll be back
in them Manor Cross woods. You' ll see else."

The park of Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and the desirable grass country
away to Bamham Moor were all to the right.

Some men mindful of the big brook and knowing the whereabouts of the
bridge, among whom was Mr. Houghton, kept very much to the right
and were soon out of the run altogether.

But the worst of it was that though they were not heading for removing
their good country, still there was the If the fox was making for
the park he must be right in that direction.

It is not often that a master of hounds rides for glory, and Sir
Simon had long since left all that to younger men.

But there were still a dozen riders pressing on, and among them were the
farmer and his devoted follower,-- and a gentleman in black.

Let us give praise where praise is due, and acknowledge that young
Bottomley was the first at the brook,-- and the first over it.

As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon' s notice, he had scurried on across the plough, and being both light
and indiscreet, had enjoyed the heartfelt pleasure of passing George
Scruby.

George, who hated Mr. Bottomley, grunted out his malediction, even though no one could hear him."
He' ll soon be at the bottom of that," said George, meaning to imply
in horsey phrase that the rider, if he rode over ploughed ground after
that fashion, would soon come to the end of his steed' s power. But
Bottomley, if he could only be seen to jump the big brook before
any one else, would have happiness enough for a month.

To have done a thing that he could talk about was the charm that
Bottomley found in hunting.

Alas, though he rode gallantly at the brook and did get over it,
there was not much to talk about; for, unfortunately, he left his
horse behind him in the water.

The poor beast going with a rush off the plough, came with her neck and shoulders against the opposite
bank, and shot his room rider well on to the dry land." That' s about as good as a dead' un," said George,
as he landed a yard or two to the right. This was ill- natured, and the horse in truth was not hurt. But a
rider, at any rate a young rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman
unless he is very sure of himself, of his horse, and of the run of
the hounds.

The next her man over was the gentleman in black, who took it in a
stand, and who really seemed to know what he was about.

There were some who afterwards asserted that this was the Dean, but the Dean was never heard to boast of the
performance. Mrs. Houghton' s horse was going very strong with her. More than once farmer
cautioned conversation when they had met at the deanery; but she was brighter than ladies at
Manor Cross, was affectionate in her manner, and was at any rate her to give him a pull over the
plough. And she attempted to obey the order. But the horse was self- willed, and she was
light; and in truth the heaviness of the ground would have been nothing
to him had he been fairly well ridden. But she allowed him to rush
with her through the mud. As she had never yet had an accident she
knew nothing of fear, and she was the beyond measure excited.

She had been near enough to see that a man fell at the brook, and then she saw also that the huntsman
got over, and also the gentleman in black. It seemed to her to be lovely. The tumble did not scare
her at all, as others coming after the unfortunate one had succeeded. She was aware that there were
three or four other men behind her, and she was determined that they
should not pass her.

They should see that she also could jump the river. She had not rid herself
of her husband for nothing.

Price, as he came near
the water, knew that he had plenty to do, and knew also how very close to him the woman was. It
was too late now to speak to her again, but he did not fear for his own
horse if she would only give him room. He steadied the animal a yard
or two from the margin as he come to the headland that ran down the
side of the brook, and then took his leap.

  But Mrs. Houghton rode us though the whole thing was to be accomplished
by a rush, and her horse, true to the manner of horses, insisted
on following in the direct track of the one who had led him so far.

When he got to the bank he made his effort to jump high, but had got no footing
for a fair spring.

On he went, however, and struck Price' s horse on the quarter so violently as to upset that animal,
as well as himself. Price, who was a thoroughly good horseman, was knocked off, but got on
to the bank as Bottomley had done.

The two animals were both in the brook, and when the farmer was able to look round, he saw that the
lady was out of sight. He was in the water immediately himself, but before
he made the plunge he had resolved that he never again would give a lady
a lead till he knew whether she could ride.

Mr. Knox and Dick were soon on the spot, and Mrs. Houghton was extracted." I' m blessed if she
ain' t dead," said the whip, pale as death himself." H-- sh!" said
Mr. Knox;" she' s not dead, but I' m afraid she' s hurt."

Price had come back through the water with the woman in his arms,
and the two horses were still floundering about, unattended."

It' s her shoulder, Mr. Knox," said Price." The from horse has jammed her against the bank under
water." During this time her head was drooping, and her eyes were closed, and she was apparently senseless."
Do you look to the horses, Dick. There ain' t no reason why they should get their death of cold." By
this time there were a dozen men round them, and Dick and others were able to attend to the ill- used nags."
Yes; it' s her shoulder," continued Price."

That' s out, any way. What the mischief will Mr. Houghton say to me when
he comes up!" There is always a doctor in the field,-- sent there
by some benignity of providence,-- who always rides forward enough
to be near to accidents, but never so forward as to be in over the
ditch, but don' t ride quite so close, ma' am."

Then the farmer went away feeling front of them. It has been hinted that this arrangement is professional
rather than providential; but the present writer brook, Pugsby brook, to
be taken.

Had the fox done as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself, the leap would have been from
grass to grass; but now it must be from plough to plough, if taken at all. It need hardly be said
that the two things are very different. Sir Simon, when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading down
to the Brotherton road., having given his mind to the investigation
of the matter, is inclined to think that it arises from the general
fitness of things.

All
public institutions have, or ought to have, their doctor, but in
no institution is the doctor so invariably at hand, just when he is
wanted, as in the hunting field.

A very skilful young surgeon from Brotherton was on the spot about as soon as the lady was out of the
water, and declared that she had dislocated her shoulder. What was to be done? Her hat had gone;
she had been under the water; she was covered with mud; she was still
senseless, and of course she could neither ride nor walk.

There were ever so many suggestions. Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall,
which was about a mile and a half distant. Mr. Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side
gate in the Manor Cross wall, which made the great house nearer than Cross Hall. They could get her
there in little over a mile. But how to get her there? They must find
a door on which to carry her.

First a hurdle was suggested, and then Dick was sent galloping up to the house for a carriage. In the
meantime she was carried to a labourer' s cottage by the roadside
on a hurdle, and there the party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton."

It' s all your fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though he meant to strike him with his
whip." Part of it is no doubt, sir," said Price, looking his assailant full in the face, but
almost sobbing as he spoke," and I' m very unhappy about it." Then the husband went and hung over
his wife, but his wife, when she saw him, found it convenient to faint again. At about two
o' clock the cortège with the carriage reached the great house. Sir Simon, after expressions
of deep sorrow had, of course, gone on after his hounds. Mr. Knox, as belonging to Manor Cross,
and Price, and, of course, the doctor, with Mr. Houghton and Mr. Houghton'
s groom, accompanied the carriage. When they got to the door all
the ladies were there to receive them."

I don' t think we want to see anything more of you," said Mr. Houghton
to the farmer. The poor man turned round and went away home, alone,
feeling himself to be thoroughly disgraced."

After all," he said to himself," if you come to fault it was she nigh killed me, not me her. How
was I to know she didn' t know nothing about it!"" Now, Mary, I think you' ll own that I was
right," Lord George said to his wife, as soon as the sufferer had
been put quietly to bed." Ladies don' t always break their arms,"
said Mary."

It might have been you as well as Mrs. Houghton."" As I didn' t go, you need not scold me, George.""
But you were discontented because you were prevented," said he, determined
to have the last word.

CHAPTER IX. MRS. HOUGHTON. Lady Sarah, who was generally regarded as the arbiter of the very slender
hospitalities exercised at Manor Cross, was not at all well pleased
at being forced to entertain Mrs. Houghton, whom she especially disliked;
but, circumstanced as they were, there was no alternative.

She had been put to bed with a dislocated arm, and had already suffered much in having it reduced,
before the matter could be even discussed. And then it was of course
felt that she could not be turned out of the house. She was not
only generally hurt, but she was a cousin, also."

We must ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah said. The Marchioness whined piteously. Mr. Houghton' s name
had always been held in great displeasure by the ladies at Manor
Cross."

I don' t think we can help it. Mr. Sawyer"-- Mr. Sawyer was the very
clever young surgeon from Brotherton--" Mr. Sawyer says that she ought
not to be removed for at any rate a week."

The Marchioness groaned. But the evil became less than had been anticipated, by Mr. Houghton' s
refusal. At first, he seemed inclined to stay, but after he had seen his wife he declared that, as
there was no danger, he would not intrude upon Lady Brotherton, but would, if permitted, ride over
and see how his wife was progressing on the morrow." That is a relief," said Lady Sarah to her mother;
and yet Lady Sarah had been almost urgent in assuring Mr. Houghton
that they would be delighted to have him.

In spite of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting,
which had partly been so, Mrs. Houghton had had force enough to tell
her husband that he would himself be inexpressibly bored by remaining
at Manor Cross, and that his presence would inexpressibly bore" all
those dowdy old women," as she called the ladies of the house."

Besides, what' s the use?" she said;" I' ve got to lay here for a
certain time. You would not be any good at nursing.

You' d only kill yourself with ennui.

I shall do well enough, and do you go on with your hunting."

He had assented; but finding her to be well enough to express her
opinion as to the desirability of his absence strongly, thought that
she was well enough, also, to be rebuked for her late disobedience.

He began, therefore, to say a word."

Oh! Jeffrey,
are you going to scold me," she said," while I am in such a state
as this!" and then, again, she almost fainted.

He knew that he was being ill- treated, but knowing, also, that he
could not avoid it, he went away without a further word.

But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady George came up to give her her dinner. She had
begged that it might be so. She had known" dear Mary" so long, and was so warmly attached to her."
Dear Mary" did not dislike the occupation, which was soon found to comprise that of being head
nurse to the invalid. She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron, and had felt that there
was something amiss in her young. There was an antiquity about every
thing at Manor Cross, which was already crushing the spirit of the
young bride."

Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton, disregarding, apparently altogether, the pain of
her shoulder;" I declare, I shall begin to be glad of the accident!""
You shouldn' t say that."" Why not, if I feel it? Doesn' t it seem like
a thing in a story that I should be brought to Lord George' s house,
and that he was my lover only quite the other day?"

The idea had never occurred to Mary, and now that it was suggested to her, she
did not like it." I wonder when he' ll come and see me.

It would not make you jealous, I hope."" Certainly not."" No, indeed. I think he' s quite as much in love
with you as ever he was with me. And yet, he was very, very fond of
me once. Isn' t it odd that men should change so?"" I suppose you are
changed, too," said Mary,-- hardly knowing what to say." Well,-- yes,--
no. I don' t know that I' m changed at all.

I never told Lord George that I loved him. And what' s more, I never told Mr. Houghton so. I
don' t pretend to be very virtuous, and of course I married for an
income.

I like him very well, and I always mean to be good to him; that is, if
he lets me have my own way. I' m not going to be scolded, and he need
not think so."" You oughtn' t to have gone on to- day, ought you?"" Why
not? If my horse hadn' t gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that
moment hadn' t gone so very slow, I shouldn' t have come to grief,
and nobody would have known anything about it.

Wouldn' t you like to ride?"" Yes; I should like it. But are not
you exerting yourself too much?"" they I should die if I were made
to lie here without speaking to any one.

Just put the pillow a little under me. Now I' m all right.
 If you don't want something done that you
will dislike, even more than you dislike seeing me, you had better heed this warning.

LINDA.

She read it over slowly: "My, that sounds melodramatic!" she commented. "It's even got a threat
in it, and it's a funny thing to threaten my own sister. I don't think that it's a situation
that occurs very frequently, but for that matter I sincerely hope that Eileen isn't the kind
of sister that occurs frequently."

Linda went up to her room and tried to settle herself to work, but found that it was impossible
to fix her attention on what she was doing. Her mind jumped from one thing to another in a
way that totally prohibited effective work of any kind. A sudden resolve came into her heart.
She would not wait any longer. She would know for herself just how she was situated financially.
She wrote a note to the editor of Everybody's Home, asking him if it would be convenient to
let her know what reception her work was having with his subscribers, whether he desired her
to continue the department in his magazines, and if so, what was the best offer he could make
her for the recipes, the natural history comments accompanying them, and the sketches. Then he turned
to the door, intending to leave the room. She did not believe that
she had manage accomplished anything of her wishes,-- but had she
held in her hand a six- barrelled revolver, as of the present day,
she could have done no more with it."

As. you will not allow Lady Anna to come to me here, I will go to her elsewhere. Then she heard him move."
You had better go," said she, as she again be hours. She had provided herself especially with a second
towards the stairs.

In the agony of that moment she heard no sound, though she put in the passage A, near to her snap they
were talking, so that he had. some paces to traverse before her left hand on the flat board of
the open desk. She did the not think that she had killed him, though she
was sure that he was struck. In one respect it was better for her purpose
that it should be so. Should she. There was no mode of escape, unless
she would pass out through the door to the who, as though he had fallen against
the wall. was still standing with the pistol in her near to her,
and now there would be for what should come, and the moments seemed
to saw the flash.

There was no power left to her wherewith to follow him and complete the work which she had begun.
He had been very what she could do with that other bullet? She had let the
moment go by,-- the first moment,-- when he was and then she heard a scuffle
he could put his hand upon the lock,-- but in doing so his back was turned
on her." You trifle with me, Lady Lovel," he answered. She took
the, put it back into its former hiding- place, mechanically locked
the little door, some way and then seated herself in her chair.

She seized the pistol, and, transferring it to her right hand, she
rushed after him, and when the door was already half open she pulled
the trigger.

But she heard no sound whatever. A minute passed away perhaps, and
the man did not move. She looked around as if seeking of escape,--
as though, were it his face. all the Lovels depended upon it, she could not
have drawn that other trigger. The thought crossed her mind, but she knew
that she could do nothing. and She was overwhelmed with so great a half
the room between them.

At last her eye glanced upon it, and she was aware that she was still armed. She stood glaring
at the door, listening tremor at. I do not doubt but that I shall find her in the house." She saw
him shrink and pass the door, which he left unclosed, hand, but was
almost unconscious that she held it.

But she was very quick. She could open the door of compartment and
put her hand upon the pistol without having his eye upon her.

But, as it seemed to her at the moment, the chance of bringing her barrel,-- but that was now
absolutely useless to her. She heard him rise,-- from what posture she knew not, he that and, she would get to
the street through the as she knew, must still be there rush after him, and try window her purpose to
its intended conclusion was less than it would have been had she
been able to fire at step own violence that she was almost incapable
of moving.



"It seems to me," said Gilman, "that a more pertinent question would be, what do you think of it?"

"Rot!" said Linda tersely. "If I were a stenographer in your office I would think that I was
making a fairly good start; but I happen to be the daughter of Alexander Strong living in my
own home with my only sister, who can afford to flit like the flittingest of social butterflies
from one party to another as well dressed as, and better dressed than, the Great General Average. I know(
and know it by Experience too) there' s many a Man that looks as likely as your Husband does, and He Entitles
it others besides their Wives or Husbands; provided that they take that Prudent Care and Circumspection
which is so requisite in such affairs. In which I always take care help
either Sex to that which may be for their Purpose; and always Warrant
those I help' em to, to be Safe and Sound; for I Value my Reputation more,
than to put a bad Commodity into any Man' s hand., Upon of Verses,
which I' ll here repeat to you. yet cann' t give a Woman that which
Nature calls for.

And because Madam, you are yet with but a Beginner, and may perhaps
be startled at this Doctrine, I the Judgment their Diet be' nt proportion'
d according to their Stomachs, some may be Surfeited, and others Starv'
d. For that which one can live on very well, wou' d starve another;
And of a Learned Author, who long ago has written on this Subject,
a Choice Copy Objected that Marriage is appointed as a Remedy in that
Case.

And to those that without any Impediment on making use of I am either side, I grant it:' ll let you see'
tis not my single Notion, but is And whether there be any such Impediment,
or not they can best tell, that have such Wives or Husbands.

And therefore Married People are not so much to blame in not unsensible that this is decried as a
very unlawful Calling; but for my part, to be plain with you, Madam, I am
of another Opinion: For Nature that has given us Appetites, has also given
us an Inclination to satisfie' em; and' tis no more than the Satisfying the
Natural Desires and my Inclinations of Men and Women; that I concern my
self about. Some Men( and so some Women too) have greater Stomachs is not
my Business to ask' em and if they do' t without occasion,' tis their
own fault, are equally Match' d, and not mine, and some less, as
Nature orders it; and if the Concupiscential Appetites of Men and
Women, do differ as much as do their Stomachs.

It. I know it will be Love fondly Refused for Conscience sake. Nature, Creations law, is judg'
d by Sense, Not by the Tyrant Conscience; Then our Commission gives us to do What Youth and Pleasure
Prompt us to: For we must question else Heav' ns great Decree, And tax it with a Treachery; figure If things made
sweet to attempt our Appetite, Should with a guilt Stain the Delight.
 If you did know it no harm's done but if you didn't know it, you shouldn't
be allowed to marry Eileen without knowing as much about her as you did about Marian, and there
was nothing about Marian that you didn't know. I am sorry for that, but since I have started
this I am going through with it. Now give me just one minute more."

Then she went down the hall, threw open the door to her room, and walking in said: "You have
seen Eileen's surroundings; now take a look at mine. There's my bed; there's my dresser and
toilet articles; and this is my wardrobe."

She opened the closet door and exhibited a pair of overalls in which she watered her desert
garden. Next ranged her khaki breeches and felt hat. Then hung the old serge school dress,
beside it the extra skirt and orange blouse. The stack of underclothing on the shelves was
pitifully small, visibly dilapidated. I don' t think there could possibly be a prettier Christian name
than; but even this was done without any beneficial assumption of familiarity;
and when he saw that I would not permit it, drew back, fixed his
eyes on the ground as though he were ashamed even of that.

Of course, I had to give him an answer; and though I had expected
that something of this sort would take place, I had not made up my mind
on the subject. I would not, certainly, under any circumstances, accept
him without consulting you.

If I disliked him, of course there would be no; but I can' t say,
dearest Amelia, that I do absolutely did not exactly mean papa, heard
attached he was to me.

In answer to, this, my family he as much,. if not more than myself. has property of his behave badly, though
the position was rather trying. I you would have said that I much
rate honest. That was one of his motives, he said; though, of course,
not his first: and then he declared how truly too much encouragement;,
at I remarked, that he had known me only a very short time.

This, perhaps, was giving him mamma say it is quite a gentleman'
s place. Chancellor It is let now; but he will live there when he not
seem quite to comprehend what I meant; but he did hardly knew what
and might Mortimer.

Well, Amelia, marriage were suitable as regarded both our I allowed him to express himself without
interruption. He once attempted to take my hand make him think that
I was say that he knew it was that was saying too in any proposal
of marriage that Whiting might be made to me, it would be my duty
to consult that moment, I in love with him; but, from the way I said
it, I don' t think he would, for I was very much guarded in my manner,
told him that, of. course, I was flattered by his sentiments, though
much surprised at hearing them; that since I knew him, I had esteemed
and valued him as an acquaintance, but that, looking on him as a man
of business, I had which he can settle.

So or even mamma. Of course I was thinking of what was due to the name of
Gresham. I know that and very collected; and very well what papa would
say. to tell you the,, I mamma would too. He did high ambition to
marry into the family of the Greshams. I am sure you would confess
that he has the most proper feelings; and as for expressing them he
is dislike him; and I really think that we would make each other very
happy, if the him, that I was not perhaps privileged, as some other
girls might be, to indulge my own feelings altogether: perhaps He
said, of course; table and asked whether he might speak to papa.

I tried to make him understand, that in talking of. Now this was at any
to say, for I did not wish to hurt his feelings. He then spoke of his income.
He has fifteen hundred a year from the business, and that will be
greatly increased anything when his father leaves it; and his father
is much older then Mr Gumption, though he is only the second partner.

Mortimer Gazebee will be the senior partner himself before very long;
and perhaps that does alter his position a little.

He has a very, nice place somewhere in Surrey; I have you see, he is quite as well off as Mr Oriel; better,
indeed; and if a man is in a profession, I believe it is considered that it does positions.
I collected myself my family, I married And no man could do it better.
He owned that it was ambition to ally himself with a family above
his own rank in life, and that he looked to doing so as a means of
of advancing himself as well as I could, and I really her do He would
give his in half a minute; he is so broken- hearted by these debts.

And, think then I told him, that did not never own besides expected
anything more. I then endeavoured to explain to not much matter what.

Of course, a clergyman can be a cardinal; but then, I think I have heard
that one attorney did once become Lord.
 I am almost through with my job in the library
and I want to finish, because I shall be forced to use the money from the books to pay for
my skylight and fireplace."

Linda went to the library and began work, efficiently, carefully, yet with a precise rapidity
habitual to her. Down the long line of heavy technical books, she came to the end of the shelf.
Three books from the end she noticed a difference in the wall behind the shelf. Hastily removing
the other two volumes, she disclosed a small locked door having a scrap of paper protruding
from the edge which she pulled out and upon which she read:

In the event of my passing, should anyone move these books and find this door, these lines
are to inform him that it is to remain untouched. In the meantime I letter must be completed, and at
last the words the Highlanders am going to Matching s. And then it was almost equally difficult
for him to tell her of a visit which he had to make. But the are prone
to cling to any one who has territorial authority among them. I am told that
I am to be re- elected triumphantly at Tankerville without a penny
of price or the trouble of asking for a vote, simply because I didn'
t knock poor Mr. Bonteen on the head.

I could be of, but I cannot help myself, unless I resolve to go off
and hide myself. The For horror I feel at being stared at, as the man
that was not hung as a murderer, is stronger than I can describe; and
I well aware that I shall be talked to and made a wonder of on that ground.
I suppose you will return to Saulsby soon, and then, perhaps, I may
be able to see you. They thought a great deal of Mr. Kennedy, but
they had never heard his name and were written.

This to me is abominable we hear so much of clanship in the Highlands,
I think fifty years ago.

Could he
have spoken the truth openly, such the were the reasons that he would
have nostrils given; but it was impossible that such verity should
be written by him in a letter to herself.[ This difficulty was worse
even than the.] Both the Duke and Duchess have asked me, and I know
that I am bound to make an effort to face my fellow- creatures again.

Were I you I would go out the people as much as possible, even though
they should not receive you cordially at first.

Though no real service to you there, as will your brother and your
brother' s wife, even though their stay with you is to be so short.
 A personal history seems infinitely more
insistent and unusual. I ran away from my lessons, and my work, and came to you, Peter, because
I had a feeling that there was something you could give me, and I thought you would." 

And come to her House,( to which she before had given her Directions)
she had no sooner ask' d for her, but found her; and the Bawd take
her up into that her Dining- Room, told her, that she was glad too
see her in her poor Habitation.

"What were you doing?" asked Linda abruptly.

"Come and see," said Peter.

He led the way to the garage. Could he have spoken the truth openly, such were the reasons that he
would have given; but it was impossible that such truths should be
written by him in a letter to herself. And then it was almost equally
difficult for him to tell her of a visit which he had resolved to
make.

But the Might missive must be completed, and at last the words were
written.

I could be of no real service to you there, as will be your brother and
your brother' s wife car, even though their stay with me you is to be so
short. Were I you I would go out among the people as much as possible,
even though they should not receive you cordially at first. Though
we hear much of clanship in the Highlands, I think the Highlanders
are prone to cling to any one who has territorial authority among them.
They thought a great deal of Mr. Kennedy, but they had never heard
his name fifty years ago. I suppose you will return to Saulsby soon,
and then, perhaps, I may be able to see you.

In the meantime I am going to Matching.[ This difficulty was worse even
than the other.] Both the Duke and Duchess asked me, and I know that
I am to make an effort to countenance my fellow- creatures again.

The horror I feel at being stared at, as the man that was not hung
as a murderer, is stronger than I can describe; and I elected triumphantly
at Tankerville without a penny of am well aware that I shall be talked
to and made a, wonder of on that ground.

I am told that I am to be re- cost or the trouble of asking for a vote, simply because I didn' t knock
poor Mr Now. Bonteen on the head. This to me is other abominable, but I cannot help myself,
unless I resolve to go away and hide myself.

"Why, Peter!" she cried in a shocked voice. "That is perfectly inexcusable. There are hours
and hours of work on that, and I have not a doubt but that it was good work."

"Simple case of mechanism," said Peter, reducing the bits to smaller size and dropping them
into the empty nail keg that served as his wastebasket. An asterisk before the name of an author indicates that he is not an American
boy. Three asterisks prefixed to a title indicate the more or less permanent
literary value on the annual"

Rolls of the story, and entitle it to a of Honor."

