The king must have guards, infantry, cavalry, body-guards, French guardsmen, Swiss guardsmen,
Cent Suisses, light-horse guards, gendarmes of the guard, gate-guardsmen, in all, 9,050 men,[2111]
costing annually 7,681,000 livres. Four companies of the French guard, and two of the Swiss
guard, parade every day in the court of the ministers between the two railings, and when the
king issues in his carriage to go to Paris or Fontainebleau the spectacle is magnificent. Four
trumpeters in front and four behind, the Swiss guards on one side and the French guards on
the other, form a line as far as it can reach.[2112] The Cent Suisses march ahead of the horsemen
in the costume of the sixteenth century, wearing the halberd, ruff, plumed hat, and the ample
parti-colored striped doublet; alongside of these are the provost-guard with scarlet facings
and gold frogs, and companies of yeomanry bristling with gold and silver. The officers of the
various corps, the trumpeters and the musicians, covered with gold and silver lace, are dazzling
to look at; the kettledrum suspended at the saddle-bow, overcharged with painted and gilded
ornaments, is a curiosity for a glass case; the Negro cymbal-player of the French guards resembles
the sultan of a fairy-tale. Behind the carriage and alongside of it trot the body-guards, with
sword and carbine, wearing red breeches, high black boots, and a blue coat sewn with white
embroidery, all of them unquestionable gentlemen; there were twelve hundred of these selected
among the nobles and according to size; among them are the guards de la manche, still more
intimate, who at church and on ceremonial occasions, in white doublets starred with silver
and gold spangles, holding their damascene partisans in their hands, always remain standing
and turned towards the king "so as to see his person from all sides." Thus is his protection
ensured. Being a gentleman the king is a cavalier, and he must have a suitable stable,[2113]
1,857 horses, 217 vehicles, 1,458 men whom he clothes, the liveries costing 540,000 francs
a year; besides these there were 20 tutors and sub-tutors, almoners, professors, cooks, and
valets to govern, educate and serve the pages; and again about thirty physicians, apothecaries,
nurses for the sick, intendants, treasurers, workmen, and licensed and paid merchants for the
accessories of the service; in all more than 1,500 men. Horses to the amount of 250,000 francs
are purchased yearly, and there are stock-stables in Limousin and in Normandy to draw on for
supplies. 287 horses are exercised daily in the two riding-halls; there are 443 saddle-horses
in the small stable, 437 in the large one, and these are not sufficient for the "vivacity of
the service." The whole cost 4,600,000 livres in 1775, which sum reaches 6,200,000 livres in
1787.[2114] Still another spectacle should be seen with one's own eyes,--the pages,[2115] the
grooms, the laced pupils, the silver-button pupils, the boys of the little livery in silk,
the instrumentalists and the mounted messengers of the stable. The use of the horse is a feudal
art; no luxury is more natural to a man of quality. Think of the stables at Chantilly, which
are palaces. To convey an idea of a well-educated and genteel man he was then called an accomplished
cavalier;" in fact his importance was fully manifest only when he was in the saddle, on a blood-horse
like himself.--Another genteel taste, an effect of the preceding, is the chase. It costs the
king from 1,100,000 to 1,200,000 livres a year, and requires 280 horses besides those of the
two stables. A more varied or more complete equipment could not be imagined: a pack of hounds
for the boar, another for the wolf another for the roe-buck, a cast (of hawks) for the crow,
a cast for the magpie, a cast for merlins, a cast for hares, a cast for the fields. In 1783,
179,194 livres are expended for feeding horses, and 53,412 livres for feeding dogs.[2116] The
entire territory, ten leagues around Paris, is a game-preserve; "not a gun could be fired there;[2117]
accordingly the plains are seen covered with partridges accustomed to man, quietly picking
up the grain and never stirring as he passes." Add to this the princes' captaincies, extending
as far as Villers-Cotterets and Orleans; these form an almost continuous circle around Paris,
thirty leagues in circumference, where game, protected, replaced and multiplied, swarms for
the pleasure of the king. The park of Versailles alone forms an enclosure of more than ten
leagues. The forest of Rambouillet embraces 25,000 arpents (30,000 acres). Herds of seventy-five
and eighty stags are encountered around Fontainebleau. No true hunter could read the minute-book
of the chase without feeling an impulse of envy. The wolf-hounds run twice a week, and they
take forty wolves a year. Between 1743 and 1744 Louis XV runs down 6,400 stags. Louis XVI writes,
August 30th, 1781: "Killed 460 head to day." In 1780 he brings down 20,534 head; in 1781, 20,291;
in fourteen years, 189,251 head, besides 1,254 stags, while boars and bucks are proportionate;
and it must be noted that this is all done by his own hand, since his parks approach his houses.--Such,
in fine, is the character of a "well-appointed household," that is to say, provided with its
dependencies and services. Everything is within reach; it is a complete world in itself and
self-sufficient. One exalted being attaches to and gathers around it, with universal foresight
and minuteness of detail, every appurtenance it employs or can possibly employ.--Thus, each
prince, each princess has a professional surgery and a chapel;[2118] it would not answer for
the almoner who says mass or the doctor who looks after their health to be obtained outside. On
our return we found ten men, besides the two we had killed before we joined our friends. Seeing
that there were still recognized us, being dark, I asked again how many of our faces were killed?
They said five. I asked who they were. They said that the first three that came to meet the
American war chief, had been taken prisoner, and killed the camp and that a group of five that followed
to see the meeting of the first and whites, two were killed. I was sure that we now recognize, did
not tell them who I was, until we reached our camp. News of our death have reached some time before,
and all were surprised to see us again "[8].

This is the story of this defeat, as given by Black Hawk, and two
of his men, who were white flag bearers and a proposal to surrender.
The accounts given by Major Stillman's troops - because it proves
that any official statement published commander to fight - is essentially
about the following.

Force under Major Stillman, two hundred seventy-five to number afternoon of the fourteenth of May, met
three Indians bearing a white flag, one of which, after being taken prisoner, was shot down . The army camped
just before sunset, a piece of wood, surrounded by open prairie, about three miles from Sycamore
creek. Stopped soon after, five more Indian, Pacific apparent intentions were seen approaching the camp.
Captain Eades, a part of the armed forces, dashed at full speed towards them, when they became alarmed
and began a retreat. The captain, after following them for some distance, and the killing of two
of the party has abandoned the exercise, and was to return to camp when he was met by the entire squad. Indians
exercise withdrawal was immediately renewed, and continued until both sides have crossed the Sycamore
Creek.
 Only to fetch water from Ville-d'Avray, and to convey servants,
waiters and provisions, required fifty horses hired at the rate of 70,591 francs per annum.
The privilege of the royal princes and princesses "to send to the bureau for fish on fast days
when not residing regularly at the court," amounts in 1778 to 175,116 livres. On reading in
the Almanach the titles of these officials we see a Gargantua's feast spread out before us.
The formal hierarchy of the kitchens, so many grand officials of the table,--the butlers, comptrollers
and comptroller-pupils, the clerks and gentlemen of the pantry, the cup-bearers and carvers,
the officers and equerries of the kitchen, the chiefs, assistants and head-cooks, the ordinary
scullions, turnspits and cellarers, the common gardeners and salad gardeners, laundry servants,
pastry-cooks, plate-changers, table-setters, crockery-keepers, and broach-bearers, the butler
of the table of the head-butler,--an entire procession of broad-braided backs and imposing
round bellies, with grave countenances, which, with order and conviction, exercise their functions
before the saucepans and around the buffets.

One step more and we enter the sanctuary, the king's apartment. Two principal dignitaries preside
over this, and each has under him about a hundred subordinates. On one side is the grand chamberlain
with his first gentlemen of the bedchamber, the pages of the bedchamber, their governors and
instructors, the ushers of the antechamber, with the four first valets-de-chambre in ordinary,
sixteen special valets serving in turn, his regular and special cloak-bearers, his barbers,
upholsterers, watch-menders, waiters and porters; on the other hand is the grand-master of
the wardrobe, with the masters of the wardrobe and the valets of the wardrobe regular and special,
the ordinary trunk-carriers, mail-bearers, tailors, laundry servants, starchers, and common
waiters, with the gentlemen, officers and secretaries in ordinary of the cabinet, in all 198
persons for domestic service, like 50 many domestic utensils for every personal want, or as
sumptuous pieces of furniture for the decoration of the apartment. Some of them fetch the mall
and the balls, others hold the mantle and cane, others comb the king's hair and dry him off
after a bath, others drive the mules which transport his bed, others watch his pet greyhounds
in his room, others fold, put on and tie his cravat, and others fetch and carry off his easy
chair.[2120] Some there are whose sole business it is to fill a corner which must not be left
empty. Certainly, with respect to ease of deportment and appearance these are the most conspicuous
of all; being so close to the master they are under obligation to appear well; in such proximity
their bearing must not create a discord.--Such is the king's household, and I have only described
one of his residences; he has a dozen of them besides Versailles, great and small, Marly, the
two Trianons, la Muette, Meudon, Choisy, Saint-Hubert, Saint-Germain, Fontainebleau, Compiègne,
Saint-Cloud, Rambouillet,[2121] without counting the Louvre, the Tuileries and Chambord, with
their parks and hunting-grounds, their governors, inspectors, comptrollers, concierges, fountain
tenders, gardeners, sweepers, scrubbers, mole-catchers, wood-rangers, mounted and foot-guards,
in all more than a thousand persons. Naturally he entertains, plans and builds, and, in this
way expends 3 or 4 millions per annum.[2122] Naturally, also, he repairs and renews his furniture;
in 1778, which is an average year, this costs him 1,936,853 livres. Naturally, also, he takes
his guests along with him and defrays their expenses, they and their attendants; at Choisy,
in 1780, there are sixteen tables with 345 seats besides the distributions; at Saint-Cloud,
in 1785, there are twenty-six tables; "an excursion to Marly of twenty-one days is a matter
of 120,000 livres extra expense;" the excursion to Fontainebleau has cost as much as 400,000
and 500,000 livres. His removals, on the average, cost half a million and more per annum.[2123]--To
complete our idea of this immense paraphernalia it must be borne in mind that the artisans
and merchants belonging to these various official bodies are obliged; through the privileges
they enjoy, to follow the court "on its journeys that it may be provided on the spot with apothecaries,
armorers, gunsmiths, sellers of silken and woollen hosiery, butchers, bakers, embroiderers,
publicans, cobblers, belt-makers, candle-makers, hatters, pork-dealers, surgeons, shoemakers,
curriers, cooks, pinkers, gilders and engravers, spur-makers, sweetmeat-dealers, furbishers,
old-clothes brokers, glove-perfumers, watchmakers, booksellers, linen-drapers, wholesale and
retail wine-dealers, carpenters, coarse-jewelry haberdashers, jewellers, parchment-makers,
dealers in trimmings, chicken-roasters, fish-dealers, purveyors of hay, straw and oats, hardware-sellers,
saddlers, tailors, gingerbread and starch-dealers, fruiterers, dealers in glass and in violins."[2124]
One might call it an oriental court which, to be set in motion, moves an entire world: "when
it is to move one must, if one wants to travel anywhere, take the post in well in advance."
The total is near 4,000 persons for the king's civil household, 9,000 to 10,000 for his military
household, at least 2,000 for those of his relatives, in all 15,000 individuals, at a cost
of between forty and fifty million livres, which would be equal to double the amount to day,
and which, at that time, constituted one-tenth of the public revenue.[2125] We have here the
central figure of the monarchical show. However grand and costly it may be, it is only proportionate
to its purpose, since the court is a public institution, and the aristocracy, with nothing
to do, devotes itself to filling up the king's drawing-room.

III. The King's Associates.

     The society of the king.--Officers of the household.
     --Invited guests.

Two causes maintain this affluence, one the feudal form still preserved, and the other the
new centralization just introduced; one placing the royal service in the hands of the nobles,
and the other converting the nobles into place-hunters.--Through the duties of the palace the
highest nobility live with the king, residing under his roof; the grand-almoner is M. de Montmorency-Laval,
bishop of Metz; the first almoner is M. de Bussuéjouls, bishop of Senlis; the grand-master
of France is the Prince de Condé; the first royal butier is the Comte d'Escars; the second
is the Marquis de Montdragon; the master of the pantry is the Duke de Brissac; the chief cup-bearer
is the Marquis de Vemeuil; the chief carver is the Marquis de la Chesnaye; the first gentlemen
of the bedchamber are the Ducs de Richelieu, de Durfort, de Villequier, and de Fleury; the
grand-master of the wardrobe is the Duc de la Rochefoucauld-Liancourt; the masters of the wardrobe
are the Comte de Boisgelin and the Marquis de Chauvelin. The captain of the falconry is the
Chevalier du Forget; the captain of the boar-hunt is the Marquis d'Ecquevilly; the superintendent
of edifices is the Comte d'Angevillier; the grand-equerry is the Prince de Lambesc; the master
of the hounds is the Duc de Penthièvre; the grand-master of ceremonies is the Marquis de Brèze;
the grand-master of the household is the Marquis de la Suze; the captains of the guards are
the Ducs d'Agen, de Villery, de Brissac, d'Aguillon, and de Biron, the Princes de Poix, de
Luxembourg and de Soubise. We are strangers to each other, though we have the same color, and
the same Great Spirit made us all, and gave us this country together. Brothers we have seen
how great a people the whites are. They are very rich and very strong. It is folly for us to
fight with them. We shall go home with much knowledge. For myself I shall advise my people
to be quiet, and live like good men. The advice which you gave us, brother, is very good, and
we tell you now we mean to walk the straight path in future, and to content ourselves with
what we have, and with cultivating our lands."

From Buffalo the captives were taken by water to Detroit, where their reception is said to
have been much less enthusiastic than in the other cities through which they had passed. It was
stated in the newspapers of the day, that they were burnt in effigy in that place. Black Hawk, in visiting
the the former residence of Governor Cass, remarked, "This is the old council ground. I have had much
good counsel here; but my trail led to the opposite shore, and my ears were closed." Their visit to
Detroit being over, they proceeded to Green Bay, and thence descended
the Wisconsin to the Mississippi and down that river to Fort Armstrong,
on Rock Island, which place they reached about the first of August.

In passing by the site of the old Sac village, Black Hawk was deeply affected, and expressed
much regret for the causes which compelled him to emigrate beyond the Mississippi. The return
of the Prophet was also attended with melancholy associations. His village over which he had
long presided, was entirely broken up--his wigwam in ashes--his family dispersed, and, he, a suppliant
for a home in the village of some other chief.

Fort Armstrong, was chosen by Major Garland as the most appropriate spot for the ceremonies of
the liberation of Black Hawk and his party; as its central position, would enable him to assemble,
at a short notice, many Indians from the surrounding villages. This was the favorite island of
the Indians; in former years abundant in fruits and flowers; and, from time immemorial the fancied
abode of a good Spirit, which watched over their village, and protected their hunting grounds. No spot
could have been selected, calculated to awaken so many painful associations
in the mind of Black Hawk, as Rock Island.

For half a century it had been the witness of his power and influence; it was now to become the
scene of his disgrace, and reluctant submission to a rival.

Immediately after Major Garland's arrival at Fort Armstrong, he sent out runners for the purpose
of assembling the neighboring Indians. The messenger despatched for Keokuk and his chiefs, found
them encamped about twenty miles below the island, having just returned from a buffalo hunt,
and being on their way to fort Armstrong, in expectation of meeting the returning captives. The
runner returned that night, and reported to Major Garland, that on the morrow, Keokuk with
a party of braves would reach Rock Island. About noon, on the following day, the sound of the Indian
drum, and the shouts and wild songs of his people, announced the approach of the princely Keokuk.
He ascended the Mississippi by water, and led the van with two large canoes, lashed side by
side, handsomely decorated, with a canopy erected over them, beneath which sat the chief and his
three wives, with the American flag waving over them. More than
twenty canoes followed the chieftain, each containing from four to
eight of his warriors, whose shouts and songs, swept over the transparent
waters of the Mississippi, and were echoed from shore to shore. This
fleet of canoes, was rowed slowly up the stream, until it passed
the camp of the captives; it then returned and the party landed on
the bank of the river, opposite to the camp of Black Hawk. Here Keokuk
and his party spent several hours in arranging their dress, painting
their faces and equipping themselves with their implements of war.pposite to the camp of Black Hawk. Here Keokuk
and his party spent several hours in arranging their dress, painting
their faces and equipping themselves with their implements of war. "He never missed the king's rising or retiring, both changes of dress
every day, the hunts and the promenades, likewise every day, for ten years in succession, never
sleeping away from the place where the king rested, and yet on a footing to demand leave, but
not to stay away all night, for he had not slept out of Paris once in forty years, but to go
and dine away from the court, and not be present on the promenade."--If; later, and under less
exacting masters, and in the general laxity of the eighteenth century, this discipline is relaxed,
the institution nevertheless subsists;[2132] in default of obedience, tradition, interest and
amour-propre suffice for the people of the court. To approach the king, to be a domestic in
his household, an usher, a cloak-bearer, a valet, is a privilege that is purchased, even in
1789, for thirty, forty, and a hundred thousand livres; so much greater the reason why it is
a privilege to form a part of his society, the most honorable, the most useful, and the most
coveted of all.--In the first place, it is a proof of noble birth. A man, to follow the king
in the chase, and a woman, to be presented to the queen, must previously satisfy the genealogist,
and by authentic documents, that his or her nobility goes back to the year 1400.--In the next
place, it ensures good fortune. This drawing room is the only place within reach of royal favors;
accordingly, up to 1789, the great families never stir away from Versailles, and day and night
they lie in ambush. The valet of the Marshal de Noaillles says to him one night on closing
his curtains,

"At what hour will Monseigneur be awakened?" "At ten o'clock, if no one dies during the night."[2133]

Old courtiers are still found who, "at the age of eighty, have passed forty-five on their feet
in the antechambers of the king, of the princes, and of the ministers. . .

"You have only three things to do," says one of them to a debutant, "speak well of everybody,
ask for every vacancy, and sit down when you can."

Hence, the king always has a crowd around him. The Comtesse du Barry says, on presenting her
niece at court, the first of August, 1773, "the crowd is so great at a presentation, one can
scarcely get through the antechambers."[2134] In December, 1774, at Fontainebleau, when the
queen plays at her own table every evening, "the apartment, though vast, is never empty. .
. . The crowd is so great that one can talk only to the two or three persons with whom one
is playing." The fourteen apartments, at the receptions of ambassadors are full to overflowing
with seigniors and richly dressed women. On the first of January, 1775, the queen "counted
over two hundred ladies presented to her to pay their court." In 1780, at Choisy, a table for
thirty persons is spread every day for the king, another with thirty places for the seigniors,
another with forty places for the officers of the guard and the equerries, and one with fifty
for the officers of the bedchamber. According to my estimate, the king, on getting up and on
retiring, on his walks, on his hunts, at play, has always around him at least forty or fifty
seigniors and generally a hundred, with as many ladies, besides his attendants on duty. At
Fontainebleau, in 1756, although "there were neither fêtes nor ballets this year, one hundred
and six ladies were counted." When the king holds a "grand apartement," when play or dancing
takes place in the gallery of mirrors, four or five hundred guests, the elect of the nobles
and of the fashion, range themselves on the benches or gather around the card and cavanole
tables.[2135] This is a spectacle to be seen, not by the imagination, or through imperfect
records, but with our own eyes and on the spot, to comprehend the spirit, the effect and the
triumph of monarchical culture. In an elegantly furnished house, the drawing room is the principal
room; and never was one more dazzling than this. Suspended from the sculptured ceiling peopled
with sporting cupids, descend, by garlands of flowers and foliage, blazing chandeliers, whose
splendor is enhanced by the tail mirrors; the light streams down in floods on gilding, diamonds,
and beaming, arch physiognomies, on fine busts, and on the capacious, sparkling and garlanded
dresses. The skirts of the ladies ranged in a circle, or in tiers on the benches, "form a rich
espalier covered with pearls, gold, silver, jewels, spangles, flowers and fruits, with their
artificial blossoms, gooseberries, cherries, and strawberries," a gigantic animated bouquet
of which the eye can scarcely support the brilliancy. There are no black coats, as nowadays,
to disturb the harmony. With the hair powdered and dressed, with buckles and knots, with cravats
and ruffles of lace, in silk coats and vests of the hues of fallen leaves, or of a delicate
rose tint, or of celestial blue, embellished with gold braid and embroidery, the men are as
elegant as the women. Men and women, each is a selection; they all are of the accomplished
class, gifted with every grace which good blood, education, fortune, leisure and custom can
bestow; they are perfect of their kind. A large quantity of them had the sign of a black hand,the hand
was represented in different locations upon the face, breast, and back. The extended digits on the
various parts of the body were powerfully contrasting with the main hue
with which the body was overspread. Polished as the
high society of Paris may be, it does not approach this;[2136] compared with the court, it
seems provincial. It is said that a hundred thousand roses are required to make an ounce of
the unique perfume used by Persian kings; such is this drawing-room, the frail vial of crystal
and gold containing the substance of a human vegetation. To fill it, a great aristocracy had
to be transplanted to a hot-house and become sterile in fruit and flowers, and then, in the
royal alembic, its pure sap is concentrated into a few drops of aroma. The price is excessive,
but only at this price can the most delicate perfumes be manufactured.

IV. Everyday Life In Court.

     The king's occupations.--Rising in the morning, mass,
     dinner, walks, hunting, supper, play, evening receptions.
     --He is always on parade and in company.

