Thursday 12th April, The Hugh. Started for the bluff. At eight miles we again struck the creek
coming from the west, and several other gum creeks coming from the range and joining it. We
have now entered the lower hills of the range. Again have we travelled through a splendid country
for grass, but as we approached the creek it became a little stony. At twelve miles we found
a number of springs in the range. Here I obtained an observation of the sun. As we approached
near the bluff, our route became very difficult; we could not get up the creek for precipices,
and were obliged to turn in every direction. About two miles from where I obtained the observation,
we arrived with great difficulty at the foot of the bluff; it has taken us all the afternoon.
I expected to have gone to the top of it to-night, but it is too late. I dressed as I did in Amazone
seemed to have delighted them, and when I arrived at the nether garments shop of my horse riding-habit,
they all bursted into laughter. Anyway I put a heavy face and ventured every corner of the village where
I found the rest of our party. Our horses were being alternately led up and down by the soldiers,
camels with water in goat's skins, baggage beasts, our camp followers, and our free-lances, were
drawn up on one side Here we have also the india-rubber
tree, the cork-tree, and several new plants. This is the only real range that I have met with
since leaving the Flinders range. I have named it the McDonnell Range, after his Excellency
the Governor-in-Chief of South Australia, as a token of my gratitude for his kindness to me
on many occasions. The east bluff I have named Brinkley Bluff, after Captain Brinkley, of Adelaide,
and the west one I have named Hanson Bluff, after the Honourable R. Hanson, of Adelaide. The
range is composed of gneiss rock and quartz.

Friday, 13th April, Brinkley Bluff, McDonnell Range. At sunrise I ascended the bluff, which
is the most difficult hill I have ever climbed; it took me an hour and a half to reach the
top. It is very high, and is composed principally of igneous rock, with a little ironstone,
much the same as the ranges down the country. On reaching the top, I was disappointed; the
view was not so good as I expected, in consequence of the morning being so very hazy. I have,
however, been enabled to decide what course to take. To the south-west the Waterhouse and James
ranges seem to join. At west-south-west they are hidden by one of the spurs of the McDonnell
range. To the north-west the view is intercepted by another point of this range, on which is
a high peak, which I have named Mount Hay, after the Honourable Alexander Hay, the Commissioner
of Crown Lands. About five miles to the north are numerous small spurs, beyond which there
is an extensive wooded or scrubby plain; and beyond that, in the far distance, is another range,
broken by a high conical hill, bearing about west-north-west, to which I will go, after getting
through the range. Why are the children of Zenobia forced to endure this? We first ate at Shaykh's house
and smoke our pipes. Afterward, we returned to the camp - a space that accommodated up to eighty soldiers.
The camp was near the colonnade of Palmyra, in order that the animals would be given shelter and water
from the wells, for our journey brought us into frequent encounter with both ice and heat.
 To the east is a complete mass of ranges, with the same
luminous appearance behind them. I had a terrible job in getting down the bluff; one false
step and I should have been dashed to pieces in the abyss below; I was thankful when I arrived
safely at the foot. It was pure luck that I made that shot and that they didn't ask for another. My reputation
was made after that, and people gathered to our cause. We had enough to fight the Ghazu, should
it come to that.
 Camped at sundown on the creek; there is an abundance of water,
which apparently is permanent, from the number of rushes growing all about it. The feed is
splendid. There are a number of fresh native tracks.

Saturday, 14th April, McDonnell Range. Started at 8 o'clock to follow the creek, as it seems
to be the best way of getting through the other ranges; but, as it comes too much from the
east, I must leave it, and get through at some of the low hills further down. This we at last
contrived to do after a severe struggle. It has taken us the whole day to come about five miles.
We are now camped, north of the bluff, at a gorge, in which there is a good spring of water;
the creeks now run north from the range.

Sunday, 15th April, The North Gorge of McDonnell Range. I ascended the high hill on the east
side of the gorge; the atmosphere being much clearer, I got a better view of the country. To
the north-west, between the McDonnell range and the conical hill north-north-west, is a large
plain, apparently scrub; no hills on the horizon, but a light shade in the far distance; the
conical hill bears 340 degrees from this; it appears to be high. From the foot of this, for
about five miles, is an open grassy country, with a few small patches of bushes. The city was likely once
magnificent, but now it was in ruins. The main temple was of the Sun. The entire city was full
of ruined colonnades and columns. One of the colonnades was even a mile
long.

I saw a little of the Palmytra's inner life, partially because I dressed
like a man. Dressed that way, I could go almost anywhere i wanted
and go into all the places that women were not typically allowed.
The hardest part for me was going to the bathroom, which always had
to be done in the middle of the night. Started at 9 o'clock to cross the scrub
for the distant high peak. For five miles the plain was open and well grassed: afterwards it
became thick, with mulga bushes and other scrubs. At twenty miles we again encountered the
spinifex, which continued until we camped after dark. Distance, thirty miles. Met with no creek
or watercourse after leaving the McDonnell ranges.

Tuesday, 17th April, In the Scrub. Got an early start, and continued through the scrub and
spinifex on the same course, 340 degrees. At three miles passed a small stony hill, about two
miles to the west of our course. At eighteen miles saw to the west two prominent bluff hills,
and two or three small ones, about ten miles distant from us. I walked into the room and saw the beautiful cat
on the couch. The cat mewed at me until Madame Omar entered the room. Madame Omar was a lovely German woman
who's husband kept her all but locked away in the harim. She said that I was correct with regards
to my treatment of the hyena. Followed the range to the north-west till
after dark, hoping to find a gum creek coming from the range, but without success; nothing
but rocky and sandy watercourses. Camped. The poor horses again without water; I trust that
I shall find some for them in the morning; if not, I shall have to return to the McDonnell
range. Very little rain seems to have fallen here; the grass is all dried up. The spinifex
continues until within a mile of the range. The small gum creek that we passed is running south-west
into the scrub.

