With reference to the monthly distribution of the precipitation over the dry-farm territory
of the United States, Henry of the United States Weather Bureau recognizes five distinct types;
namely: (1) Pacific, (2) Sub-Pacific, (3) Arizona, (4) the Northern Rocky Mountain and Eastern
Foothills, and (5) the Plains Type:--

"The Pacific Type.--This type is found in all of the territory west of the Cascade and Sierra
Nevada ranges, and also obtains in a fringe of country to the eastward of the mountain summits.
The distinguishing characteristic of the Pacific type is a wet season, extending from October
to March, and a practically rainless summer, except in northern California and parts of Oregon
and Washington. About half of the yearly precipitation comes in the months of December, January,
and February, the remaining half being distributed throughout the seven months--September,
October, November, March, April, May, and June."

"Sub-Pacific Type.--The term 'Sub-Pacific' has been given to that type of rainfall which obtains
over eastern Washington, Nevada, and Utah. The influences that control the precipitation of
this region are much similar to those that prevail west of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade ranges.
There is not, however, as in the eastern type, a steady diminution in the precipitation with
the approach of spring, but rather a culmination in the precipitation."

"Arizona Type.--The Arizona Type, so called because it is more fully developed in that territory
than elsewhere, prevails over Arizona, New Mexico, and a small portion of eastern Utah and
Nevada. This type differs from all others in the fact that about 35 per cent of the rain falls
in July and August. May and June are generally the months of least rainfall."

"The Northern Rocky Mountain and Eastern Foothills Type.--This type is closely allied to that
of the plains to the eastward, and the bulk of the rain falls in the foothills of the region
in April and May; in Montana, in May and June."

"The Plains Type.--This type embraces the greater part of the Dakotas, Nebraska, Kansas; Oklahoma,
the Panhandle of Texas, and all the great corn and wheat states of the interior valleys. This
region is characterized by a scant winter precipitation over the northern states and moderately
heavy rains during the growing season. The. bulk of the rains comes in May, June, and July."

This classification emphasizes the great variation in distribution of rainfall over the dry-farm
territory of the country. West of the Rocky Mountains the precipitation comes chiefly in winter
and spring, leaving the summers rainless; while east of the Rockies, the winters are somewhat
rainless and the precipitation comes chiefly in spring and summer. "The women of England," says
Polydore Virgil, "not only salute their relations with a kiss, but all persons promiscuously;
and this ceremony they repeat, gently touching them with their lips, not only with grace, but
without the least immodesty.

Such, however, as are of the blood-royal do not kiss their inferiors,
but offer the back of the hand, as men do, by way of saluting each
other."

Erasmus too--the grave, the phlegmatic Erasmus, melts into love and playful thoughts, when
he thinks of kisses--"Did you but know, my Faustus," he writes to
one of his friends, "the pleasures which England affords, you would
fly here on winged feet, and if your gout would not allow you, you
would wish yourself a Dædalus.

To mention to you one among many things, here are nymphs of the loveliest looks, good humoured, and
whom you would prefer even to your favourite Muses. Here also prevails a custom never enough
to be commended, that wherever you come, every one receives you with a kiss, and when you take
your leave, every one gives you a kiss; when you return, kisses again meet you. If any one leaves
you they give you a kiss; if you meet any one, the first salutation
is a kiss; in short, wherever you go, kisses every where abound; which,
my Faustus, did you once taste how very sweet and how very fragrant
they are, you would not, like Solon, wish for ten years exile in England,
but would desire to spend there the whole of your life."

Oh what miracles have been wrought by a kiss! Philosophers, stoics, hermits, and misers have
become men of the world, of taste, and of generosity; idiots have become wise; and, truth to tell,
wise men idiots--warriors have turned cowards and cowards brave--statesmen have become poets,
and political economists sensible men. Oh, wonderful art, which can produce such strange effects!
to thee, the magic powers of steam seem commonplace and tedious; the wizard may break his rod in
despair, and the king his sceptre, for thou canst effect in a moment what they may vainly labour
years to accomplish. Well may the poet celebrate thy praises in words that breathe and thoughts
that burn; well may the minstrel fire with sudden inspiration and strike the lute with rapture when
he thinks of thee; well might the knight of bygone times brave every
danger when thou wert his bright reward; well might Vortigern resign
his kingdom, or Mark Antony the world, when it was thee that tempted.

Long, long, may England be praised for her prevalence of this divine custom! Long may British women be
as celebrated for the fragrance of their kisses, as they ever were,
and ever will be for their virtue and their beauty.

CHILDE WILFUL.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

* * * * *

"COMPANION
TO THE THEATRES."

An inveterate play-goer announces a little manual under this title, for
publication in a few days. Such a work, if well executed, will be
very acceptable to the amateur and visitor, as well as attractive to the
general reader. The outline or plan looks well, and next week we
may probably give our readers some idea of its execution.

* * * *
*

VOYAGE TO INDIA.

The generality of our society on board was respectable,
and some of its members were men of education and talent. Excepting
that there was no lady of the party, it was composed of the usual
materials to be found at the cuddy-table of an outward bound Indiaman. When
the air can hold no more, it is said to be saturated. When it is not saturated, the amount
of water vapor actually held by the air is expressed in percentages of the quantity required
for saturation. A relative humidity of 100 per cent means that the air is saturated; of 50
per cent, that it is only one half saturated. The drier the air is, the more rapidly does the
water evaporate into it. To the dry-farmer, therefore, the relative humidity or degree of dryness
of the air is of very great importance. According to Professor Henry, the chief characteristics
of the geographic distribution of relative humidity in the United States are as follows:--

(1) Along the coasts there is a belt of high humidity at all seasons, the percentage of saturation
ranging from 75 to 80 per cent.

(2) Inland, from about the 70th meridian eastward to the Atlantic coast, the amount varies
between 70 and 75 per cent.

(3) The dry region is in the Southwest, where the average annual value is not over 50 per cent.
In this region are included Arizona, New Mexico, western Colorado, and the greater portion
of both Utah and Nevada. The amount of annual relative humidity in the remaining portion of
the elevated district, between the 100th meridian on the east to the Sierra Nevada and the
Cascades on the west, varies between 55 and 65 per cent. In July, August, and September, the
mean values in the Southwest sink as low as 20 to 30 per cent, while along the Pacific coast
districts they continue about 80 per cent the year round. In the Atlantic coast districts,
and generally east from the Mississippi River, the variation from month to month is not great.
April is probably the driest month of the year.

The air of the dry-farm territory, therefore, on the whole, contains considerably less than
two thirds the amount of moisture carried by the air of the humid states. This means that evaporation
from plant leaves and soil surfaces will go on more rapidly in semiarid than in humid regions.
Against this danger, which cannot he controlled, the dry-farmer must take special precautions.

Sunshine

The amount of sunshine in a dry-farm section is also of importance. Direct sunshine promotes
plant growth, but at the same time it accelerates the evaporation of water from the soil. The
whole dry-farm territory receives more sunshine than do the humid sections. In fact, the amount
of sunshine may roughly be said to increase as the annual rainfall decreases. Over the larger
part of the arid and semiarid sections the sun shines over 70 per cent of the time.

Winds

The winds of any locality, owing to their moisture-dissipating power play an important part
in the success of dry-farming. * * * * *

CHINESE NOVELS.

A union of three persons, cemented by a conformity of taste and character, constitutes, in the
opinion of the Chinese, the perfection of earthly happiness, a sort of ideal bliss, reserved by
heaven for peculiar favourites as a suitable reward for their talent and virtue. Looking at the
subject under this point of view, their novel-writers not unfrequently arrange matters so as
to secure this double felicity to their heroes at the close of the
work; and a catastrophe of this kind is regarded as the most satisfactory
that can be employed.

Without exposing ourselves to the danger incurred by one of the German
divines, who was nearly torn to pieces by the mob of Stockholm for
defending polygamy, we may venture to remark, that for the mere purposes
of art, this system certainly possesses very great advantages.

It furnishes the novel-writer with an easy method of giving general satisfaction to all his characters,
at the end of the tale, without recurring to the fatal though convenient intervention of consumption
and suicide, with us the only resources, when there happens to be a heroine too many. What
floods of tears would not the Chinese method have spared to the high-minded Corinna, to the
interesting and poetical Clementina! From what bitter pangs would it not have relieved the irresolute
Oswald, perhaps even the virtuous Grandison himself! The Chinese are entitled to the honour
of having invented the domestic and historical novel several centuries before they were introduced
in Europe. Fables, tales of supernatural events, and epic poems, belong to the infancy of
nations; but the real novel is the product of a later period in the
progress of society, when men are led to reflect upon the incidents
of domestic life, the movement of the passions, the analysis of sentiment,
and the conflicts of adverse interests and opinions.--Preface to a
French Translation of a Chinese Novel.

* * * * *

HERO OF A CHINESE NOVEL.

There came out a youth of about fifteen or sixteen years of age, dressed in a violet robe with a light
cap on his head.

His vermilion lips, brilliant white teeth, and arched eye-brows gave
him the air of a charming girl.

So graceful and airy are his movements, that one might well ask,
whether he be mortal or a heavenly spirit.

He looks like a sylph formed of the essence of flowers, or a soul descended from the moon. Is
it indeed a youth who has come out to divert himself, or is it a sweet perfume
from the inner apartment?--Ibid.

* * * * *

BEES.

It has been the custom, from the earliest ages, to rub the inside of
the hive with a handful of salt and clover, or some other grass or
sweet-scented herb, previously to the swarm's being put in the hive.

We have seen no advantage in this; on the contrary, it gives a great deal of unnecessary labour to
the bees, as they will be compelled to remove every particle of foreign matter from the hive
before they begin to work. A clean, cool hive, free from any peculiar smell or mustiness, will be
acceptable to the bees; and the more closely the hive is joined together, the less labour will the
insects have, whose first care it is to stop up every crevice, that
light and air may be excluded.

We must not
omit to reprehend, as utterly useless, the vile practice of making
an astounding noise, with tin pans and kettles, when the bees are
swarming. It may have originated in some ancient superstition, or
it may have been the signal to call aid from the fields, to assist
in the hiving. If harmless it is unnecessary; and everything that
tends to encumber the management of bees should be avoided.--American
Farmer's Manual.

* * * * *

CONVENT GARDEN MARKET.

A correct understanding of the soil, from the surface to a depth of ten feet, is almost indispensable
before a safe Judgment can be pronounced upon the full dry-farm possibilities of a district.
Especially is it necessary to know (a) the depth, (b) the uniformity of structure, and (c)
the relative fertility of the soil, in order to plan an intelligent system of farming that
will be rationally adapted to the rainfall and other climatic factors.

It is a matter of regret that so much of our information concerning the soils of the dry-farm
territory of the United States and other countries has been obtained according to the methods
and for the needs of humid countries, and that, therefore, the special knowledge of our arid
and semiarid soils needed for the development of dry-farming is small and fragmentary. What
is known to-day concerning the nature of arid soils and their relation to cultural processes
under a scanty rainfall is due very largely to the extensive researches and voluminous writings
of Dr. E. W. Hilgard, who for a generation was in charge of the agricultural work of the state
of California. People with a free-Mariner, and no small sprinkling of writers, cadets, and assistant surgeons, along with
ship's officers, who ate at the captain's table, formed a group of about 25 twelve years .-- Military
Adventure .

* * * * *

EDUCATION IN DENMARK.

Much pain has recently been taken in Denmark to promote the financing
of primary schools and Lancaster have been generally throughout the country.
We now have before us the report to the King of Chevalier Abrahamson,
progress, prospects and current status of schools for mutual learning
in Denmark, January 28, 1828, which shows that 2371 was mutual schools
created and is full time in the various districts of the kingdom
and in the Army .-- North American Review.

* * * * *

RECORDS.

Some faint idea of the majority of our English records can be obtained
by noting the fact that a single law, the Commissioners' property tax
law, passed in the first year of the reign of His Majesty's present
action, the more winding hundred feet, or nearly twice the length
of the Cathedral of St. Paul's within the walls, and if you ever need
the volume to hear fear, a healthy man should be employed for three
hours in coiling and uncoiling its folds monstrous.

In case of factory legislation, at this pace and do not believe any disruption in their development, we may
soon be able to belt the ball round with parchment. When the solemn acts run, add requests showers available
(and in more ways than one) on the table every night of the session, the bills at the end of each
quarter, are stacked in piles under custody of our good friends, six employees of the Foreign Ministry,
and countless membranes, as in all hours of the day, sent the gloomy caves and recesses of the various courts
of common law and criminal jurisdiction throughout the kingdom, we are
afraid that there are many who may think that time is fast approaching
for the surgery, Hugh Peters recommends that "a good job for a good
judge."


In places, glaciers moving slowly down the canons crush and grind into powder the rock over
which they pass and deposit it lower down as soils. In other places, where strong winds blow
with frequent regularity, sharp soil grains are picked up by the air and hurled against the
rocks, which, under this action, are carved into fantastic forms. In still other places, the
strong winds carry soil over long distances to be mixed with other soils. Finally, on the seashore
the great waves dashing against the rocks of the coast line, and rolling the mass of pebbles
back and forth, break and pulverize the rock until soil is formed. Glaciers, winds, and waves
are also, therefore, physical agencies of soil formation.

It may be noted that the result of the action of all these agencies is to form a rock powder,
each particle of which preserves the composition that it had while it was a constituent part
of the rock. It may further be noted that the chief of these soil-forming agencies act more
vigorously in arid than in humid sections. Under the cloudless sky and dry atmosphere of regions
of limited rainfall, the daily and seasonal temperature changes are much greater than in sections
of greater rainfall. Consequently the pulverization of rocks goes on most rapidly in dry-farm
districts. Constant heavy winds, which as soil formers are second only to temperature changes
and freezing water, are also usually more common in arid than in humid countries. This is strikingly
shown, for instance, on the Colorado desert and the Great Plains.

The rock powder formed by the processes above described is continually being acted upon by
agencies, the effect of which is to change its chemical composition. "Encyclopedia," as defined by the
Greeks, is everyday knowledge that can be obtained by schooling. However, European writers expanded
that definition to encompass the universal array of learning that
has been discovered and is available to mankind. The complete body
of this knowledge must then be cataloged in a specific system; by
alphabetical order, subject area, or etc., to be considered an encyclopedia.


The most effective water impurity, considering soil formation, is the gas, carbon dioxid. This
gas is formed whenever plant or animal substances decay, and is therefore found, normally,
in the atmosphere and in soils. We got to some rather biggish palm trees first, followed by montes, and then a forest
which runs northward on this side of the river. There were lots of trees, which added to the tropical
appearance.

The result of the action of carbonated water upon soil particles is to render soluble, and
therefore more available to plants, many of the important plant-foods. The viewpoint of these lands
had been altered greatly, and the wilderness here was very beautiful, although one could not see
past the thick forest growing and the lack of any sort of hill or elevated
land. Oxidation is a
process of more or less rapid burning, which tends to accelerate the disintegration of rocks.

