Up, and to dress myself, and call as I use Deb. to brush and dress me .  .  .  , and I to my
office, where busy till noon, and then out to bespeak some things against my wife's going into
the country to-morrow, and so home to dinner, my wife and I alone, she being mighty busy getting
her things ready for her journey, I all the afternoon with her looking after things on the
same account, and then in the afternoon out and all alone to the King's house, and there sat
in an upper box, to hide myself, and saw "The Black Prince," a very good play; but only the
fancy, most of it, the same as in the rest of my Lord Orrery's plays; but the dance very stately;
but it was pretty to see how coming after dinner and with no company with me to talk to, and
at a play that I had seen, and went to now not for curiosity but only idleness, I did fall
asleep the former part of the play, but afterward did mind it and like it very well.  Thence
called at my bookseller's, and took Mr. Boyle's Book of Formes, newly reprinted, and sent my
brother my old one.  So home, and there to my chamber till anon comes Mr. Turner and his wife
and daughter, and Pelting, to sup with us and talk of my wife's journey to-morrow, her daughter
going with my wife; and after supper to talk with her husband about the Office, and his place,
which, by Sir J. Minnes's age and inability, is very uncomfortable to him, as well as without
profit, or certainty what he shall do, when Sir J. Minnes dies, which is a sad condition for
a man that hath lived so long in the Office as Mr. Turner hath done.  But he aymes, and I advise
him to it, to look for Mr. Ackworth's place, in case he should be removed.  His wife afterwards
did take me into my closet, and give me a cellar

     [A box to hold bottles.  "Run for the cellar of strong waters
     quickly"
                    --Ben Jonson, Magnetic Lady, act iii., sc.  r.]

of waters of her own distilling for my father, to be carried down with my wife and her daughter
to-morrow, which was very handsome.  So broke up and to bed.

2nd.  Up, after much pleasant talk with my wife, and upon some alterations I will make in my
house in her absence, and I do intend to lay out some money thereon.  So she and I up, and
she got her ready to be gone, and by and by comes Betty Turner and her mother, and W. Batelier,
and they and Deb., to whom I did give 10s. this morning, to oblige her to please her mistress
(and ego did baiser her mouche), and also Jane, and so in two coaches set out about eight o'clock
towards the carrier, there for to take coach for my father's, that is to say, my wife and Betty
Turner, Deb., and Jane; but I meeting my Lord Anglesey going to the Office, was forced to 'light
in Cheapside, and there took my leave of them (not baisado Deb., which je had a great mind
to), left them to go to their coach, and I to the office, where all the morning busy, and so
at noon with my other clerks (W. Hewer being a day's journey with my wife) to dinner, where
Mr. Pierce come and dined with me, and then with Lord Brouncker (carrying his little kinswoman
on my knee, his coach being full), to the Temple, where my Lord and I 'light and to Mr. Porter's
chamber, where Cocke and his counsel, and so to the attorney's, whither the Sollicitor-Generall
come, and there, their cause about their assignments on the L1,250,000 Act was argued, where
all that was to be said for them was said, and so answered by the Sollicitor-Generall beyond
what I expected, that I said not one word all my time, rather choosing to hold my tongue, and
so mind my reputation with the Sollicitor-Generall, who did mightily approve of my speech in
Parliament, than say anything against him to no purpose.  This I believe did trouble Cocke
and these gentlemen, but I do think this best for me, and so I do think that the business will
go against them, though it is against my judgment, and I am sure against all justice to the
men to be invited to part with their goods and be deceived afterward of their security for
payment.  Here, to my great content, I did try the use of the Otacousticon,--[Ear trumpet.]--which
was only a great glass bottle broke at the bottom, putting the neck to my eare, and there I
did plainly hear the dashing of the oares of the boats in the Thames to Arundell gallery window,
which, without it, I could not in the least do, and may, I believe, be improved to a great
height, which I am mighty glad of.  Thence with Lord Brouncker and several of them to the King's
Head Taverne by Chancery Lane, and there did drink and eat and talk, and, above the rest, I
did hear of Mr. Hooke and my Lord an account of the reason of concords and discords in musique,
which they say is from the equality of vibrations; but I am not satisfied in it, but will at
my leisure think of it more, and see how far that do go to explain it.  So late at night home
with Mr. Colwell, and parted, and I to the office, and then to Sir W. Pen to confer with him,
and Sir R. Ford and Young, about our St. John Baptist prize, and so home, without more supper
to bed, my family being now little by the departure of my wife and two maids.

3rd.  Up, and Captain Perryman come to me to tell me how Tatnell told him that this day one
How is to charge me before the Commissioners of Prizes to the value of L8000 in prizes, which
I was troubled to hear, so fearful I am, though I know that there is not a penny to be laid
to my charge that I dare not own, or that I have not owned under my hand, but upon recollection
it signifies nothing to me, and so I value it not, being sure that I can have nothing in the
world to my hurt known from the business. So to the office, where all the morning to despatch
business, and so home to dinner with my clerks, whose company is of great pleasure to me for
their good discourse in any thing of the navy I have a mind to talk of.  Thence my Lord Brouncker
and I to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw the latter part of "The Master and the
Man," and thence by coach to Duck Lane, to look out for Marsanne, in French, a man that has
wrote well of musique, but it is not to be had, but I have given order for its being sent for
over, and I did here buy Des Cartes his little treatise of musique, and so home, and there
to read a little, and eat a little, though I find that my having so little taste do make me
so far neglect eating that, unless company invite, I do not love to spend time upon eating,
and so bring emptiness and the Cholique.  So to bed. The fully functional youth, fresh in mind and unbiased
towards the world, needs the capacity to carry the heartiest of materials: The earth, the sand, the clay,
the rocks, like Sisyphus towards the apex of the hill. What use would he have with the dainty and
polite variety of carts? He has no need for dwelling on its contours, its shades, and delicately maneuvering
it along the parquet, aware of its immobility and the danger confronting the tiny couple in its cabin
as their carriage is fit for show and not motion. Such will induce him simply to redirect his game,
to unbridling and setting loose statuesque horses, to ridding them of their mane and tail in the
act of smoothing their frays.
  Thence home to the office by water, where we
sat till noon, and then I moved we might go to the Duke of York and the King presently to get
out their order in writing that was ordered us yesterday about the business of certificates,
that we might be secure against the tradesmen who (Sir John Banks by name) have told me this
day that they will complain in Parliament against us for denying to do them right.  So we rose
of a sudden, being mighty sensible of this inconvenience we are liable to should we delay to
give them longer, and yet have no order for our indemnity.  I did dine with Sir W. Pen, where
my Lady Batten did come with desire of meeting me there, and speaking with me about the business
of the L500 we demand of her for the Chest.  She do protest, before God, she never did see
the account, but that it was as her husband in his life-time made it, and he did often declare
to her his expecting L500, and that we could not deny it him for his pains in that business,
and that he hath left her worth nothing of his own in the world, and that therefore she could
pay nothing of it, come what will come, but that he hath left her a beggar, which I am sorry
truly for, though it is a just judgment upon people that do live so much beyond themselves
in housekeeping and vanity, as they did.  Thence my Lord Brouncker and I into the Park in his
coach, and there took a great deal of ayre, saving that it was mighty dusty, and so a little
unpleasant.  Thence to Common Garden with my Lord, and there I took a hackney and home, and
after having done a few letters at the office, I home to a little supper and so to bed, my
eyes being every day more and more weak and apt to be tired.

5th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my chamber, and there to the writing fair some of my late musique
notions, and so to church, where I have not been a good while, and thence home, and dined at
home, with W. Hewer with me; and after dinner, he and I a great deal of good talk touching
this Office, how it is spoiled by having so many persons in it, and so much work that is not
made the work of any one man, but of all, and so is never done; and that the best way to have
it well done, were to have the whole trust in one, as myself, to set whom I pleased to work
in the several businesses of the Office, and me to be accountable for the whole, and that would
do it, as I would find instruments: but this is not to be compassed; but something I am resolved
to do about Sir J. Minnes before it be long.  Then to my chamber again, to my musique, and
so to church; and then home, and thither comes Captain Silas Taylor to me, the Storekeeper
of Harwich, where much talk, and most of it against Captain Deane, whom I do believe to be
a high, proud fellow; but he is an active man, and able in his way, and so I love him.  He
gone, I to my musique again, and to read a little, and to sing with Mr. Pelling, who come to
see me, and so spent the evening, and then to supper and to bed.

     [Four were executed on May 9th, namely, Thomas Limmerick, Edward
     Cotton, Peter Massenger, and Richard Beasley.  They were drawn,
     hanged, and quartered at Tyburn, and two of their heads fixed upon
     London Bridge ("The London Gazette," No. 259).  See "The Tryals of
     such persons as under the notion of London Apprentices were
     tumultuously assembled in Moore Fields, under colour of pulling down
     bawdy-houses," 4to., London, 1668.  "It is to be observed," says
     "The London Gazette,"  "to the just vindication of the City, that
     none of the persons apprehended upon the said tumult were found to
     be apprentices, as was given out, but some idle persons, many of
     them nursed in the late Rebellion, too readily embracing any
     opportunity of making their own advantages to the disturbance of the
     peace, and injury of others."]

6th.  So I thence to Westminster, and
walked in the Hall and up and down, the House being called over to-day,
and little news, but some talk as if the agreement between France and
Spain were like to be, which would be bad for us, and at noon with Sir
Herbert Price to Mr. George Montagu's to dinner, being invited by him in
the hall, and there mightily made of, even to great trouble to me to be so
commended before my face, with that flattery and importunity, that I was
quite troubled with it.  Yet he is a fine gentleman, truly, and his lady a
fine woman; and, among many sons that I saw there, there was a little
daughter that is mighty pretty, of which he is infinite fond: and, after
dinner, did make her play on the gittar and sing, which she did mighty
prettily, and seems to have a mighty musical soul, keeping time with most
excellent spirit.  Here I met with Mr. Brownlow, my old schoolfellow, who
come thither, I suppose, as a suitor to one of the young ladies that were
there, and a sober man he seems to be.  This sham petition occasioned a pretended
     answer, entitled, "The Gracious Answer of the Most Illustrious Lady
     of Pleasure, the Countess of Castlem .  .  .  .  to the Poor Whores'
     Petition."  It is signed, "Given at our Closset, in King Street,
     Westminster, die Veneris, April 24, 1668.  Castlem .  .  .  ."  Thence I to
White Hall to attend the Council, and when the Council rose we find my
order mightily enlarged by the Sollicitor Generall, who was called
thither, making it more safe for him and the Council, but their order is
the same in the command of it that I drew, and will I think defend us
well.  Thence (where the place was now
by the last night's rain very pleasant, and no dust) to White Hall, and
set Creed down, and I home and to my chamber, and there about my musique
notions again, wherein I take delight and find great satisfaction in them,
and so, after a little supper, to bed.  Up, and at the office all the morning, where great hurry to be made
in the fitting forth of this present little fleet, but so many rubs by
reason of want of money, and people's not believing us in cases where we
had money unless (which in several cases, as in hiring of vessels, cannot
be) they be paid beforehand, that every thing goes backward instead of
forward.  Here I saw a wonderful
pretty maid of her own, that come to undress her, and one so pretty that
she says she intends not to keep her, for fear of her being undone in her
service, by coming to the playhouse. I
took her then up into a coach and away to the Park, which is now very fine
after some rain, but the company was going away most, and so I took her to
the Lodge, and there treated her and had a deal of good talk, and now and
then did baiser la, and that was all, and that as much or more than I had
much mind to because of her paint.  This done, I
carried her and set her down at Mrs. Manuel's, but stayed not there
myself, nor went in; but straight home, and there to my letters, and so
home to bed.

8th.  Up, and at my office all the morning, doing business, and then at noon home to dinner
all alone.  Thence home, and to visit Mrs. Turner, where among other talk, Mr. Foly and her
husband being there, she did tell me of young Captain Holmes's marrying of Pegg Lowther last
Saturday by stealth, which I was sorry for, he being an idle rascal, and proud, and worth little,
I doubt; and she a mighty pretty, well-disposed lady, and good fortune.  Her mother and friends
take on mightily; but the sport is, Sir Robert Holmes do seem to be mad too with his brother,
and will disinherit him, saying that he hath ruined himself, marrying below himself, and to
his disadvantage; whereas, I said, in this company, that I had married a sister lately, with
little above half that portion, that he should have kissed her breech before he should have
had her, which, if R. Holmes should hear, would make a great quarrel; but it is true I am heartily
sorry for the poor girl that is undone by it.  So home to my chamber, to be fingering of my
Recorder, and getting of the scale of musique without book, which I at last see is necessary
for a man that would understand musique, as it is now taught to understand, though it be a
ridiculous and troublesome way, and I know I shall be able hereafter to show the world a simpler
way; but, like the old hypotheses in philosophy, it must be learned, though a man knows a better.
Then to supper, and to bed.  This morning Mr. Christopher Pett's widow and daughter come to
me, to desire my help to the King and Duke of York, and I did promise, and do pity her.

9th.  Balty is very well, and I hope hath performed his work well, that I may get him into
future employment.  I wrote to him this night, and so home, and there to the perfecting my
getting the scale of musique without book, which I have done to perfection backward and forward,
and so to supper and to bed.

10th (Friday) All the morning at Office.  At noon with W. Pen to Duke of York, and attended
Council.  So to piper and Duck Lane, and there kissed bookseller's wife, and bought Legend.
So home, coach.  Sailor.  Mrs. Hannam dead.  News of Peace.  Conning my gamut.

     [The entries from April 10th to April 19th are transcribed from
     three leaves (six pages) of rough notes, which are inserted in the
     MS. The rough notes were made to serve for a sort of account book,
     but the amounts paid are often not registered in the fair copy when
     he came to transcribe his notes into the Diary.]

12th (Sunday).  Dined at Brouncker's, and saw the new book.  Peace. Cutting away sails.

13th (Monday).  Spent at Michel's 6d.; in the Folly, 1s.;

     [The Folly was a floating house of entertainment on the Thames,
     which at this time was a fashionable resort.]

oysters, 1s.; coach to W. Coventry about Mrs. Pett, 1s.; thence to Commissioners of Treasury,
and so to Westminster Hall by water, 6d.  With G. Montagu and Roger Pepys, and spoke with Birch
and Vaughan, all in trouble about the prize business.  So to Lord Crew's (calling for a low
pipe by the way), where Creed and G. M. and G. C. come, 1s.  So with Creed to a play.  Little
laugh, 4s.  Thence towards the Park by coach, 2s. 6d. Come home, met with order of Commissioners
of Accounts, which put together with the rest vexed me, and so home to supper and to bed.

14th (Tuesday).  Up betimes by water to the Temple.  In the way read the Narrative about prizes;
and so to Lord Crew's bedside, and then to Westminster, where I hear Pen is, and sent for by
messenger last night. Thence to Commissioners of Accounts and there examined, and so back to
Westminster Hall, where all the talk of committing all to the Tower, and Creed and I to the
Quaker's, dined together.  Thence to the House, where rose about four o'clock; and, with much
ado, Pen got to Thursday to bring in his answer; so my Lord escapes to-day.  Thence with Godage
and G. Montagu to G. Carteret's, and there sat their dinner-time: and hear myself, by many
Parliament-men, mightily commended.  Thence to a play, "Love's Cruelty," and so to my Lord
Crew's, who glad of this day's time got, and so home, and there office, and then home to supper
and to bed, my eyes being the better upon leaving drinking at night.  Water, 1s. Porter, 6d.
Water, 6d.  Dinner, 3s. 6d.  Play part, 2s.  Oranges, 1s. Home coach, 1s. 6d.

15th.  After playing a little upon my new little flageolet, that is so soft that pleases me
mightily, betimes to my office, where most of the morning.  Then by coach, 1s., and meeting
Lord Brouncker, 'light at the Exchange, and thence by water to White Hall, 1s., and there to
the Chapel, expecting wind musick and to the Harp-and-Ball, and drank all alone, 2d. Back,
and to the fiddling concert, and heard a practice mighty good of Grebus, and thence to Westminster
Hall, where all cry out that the House will be severe with Pen; but do hope well concerning
the buyers, that we shall have no difficulty, which God grant!  Here met Creed, and, about
noon, he and I, and Sir P. Neale to the Quaker's, and there dined with a silly Executor of
Bishop Juxon's, and cozen Roger Pepys.  Business of money goes on slowly in the House.  Thence
to White Hall by water, and there with the Duke of York a little, but stayed not, but saw him
and his lady at his little pretty chapel, where I never was before: but silly devotion, God
knows!  Thence I left Creed, and to the King's playhouse, into a corner of the 18d. box, and
there saw "The Maid's Tragedy," a good play.  Coach, 1s.: play and oranges, 2s. 6d. Creed come,
dropping presently here, but he did not see me, and come to the same place, nor would I be
seen by him.  Thence to my Lord Crew's, and there he come also after, and there with Sir T.
Crew bemoaning my Lord's folly in leaving his old interest, by which he hath now lost all.
An ill discourse in the morning of my Lord's being killed, but this evening Godolphin tells
us here that my Lord is well.  Thence with Creed to the Cock ale-house, and there spent 6d.,
and so by coach home, 2s. 6d., and so to bed.

16th.  Th[ursday].  Greeting's book, is.  Begun this day to learn the Recorder.  To the office,
where all the morning.  Dined with my clerks: and merry at Sir W. Pen's crying yesterday, as
they say, to the King, that he was his martyr.  So to White Hall by coach to Commissioners
of [the] Treasury about certificates, but they met not, 2s.  To Westminster by water.  To Westminster
Hall, where I hear W. Pen is ordered to be impeached, 6d.  Thence to White Hall, but no meeting
of the Commissioners, and there met Mr. Hunt, and thence to Mrs. Martin's, and, there did what
I would, she troubled for want of employ for her husband, spent on her 1s. Thence to the Hall
to walk awhile and ribbon, spent is. So [to] Lord Crew's, and there with G. Carteret and my
Lord to talk, and they look upon our matters much the better, and by this and that time is
got, 1s.  So to the Temple late, and by water, by moonshine, home, 1s. Cooks, 6d.  Wrote my
letters to my Lady Sandwich, and so home, where displeased to have my maid bring her brother,
a countryman, to lye there, and so to bed.

17th (Friday).  Called up by Balty's coming, who gives me a good account of his voyage, and
pleases me well, and I hope hath got something.  This morning paid the Royall Society L1 6s.,
and so to the office all the morning.  At noon home to dinner with my people, and there much
pretty discourse of Balty's.  So by coach to White Hall: the coachman on Ludgate Hill 'lighted,
and beat a fellow with a sword, 2s. 6d.  Did little business with the Duke of York.  Hear that
the House is upon the business of Harman, who, they say, takes all on himself.  Thence, with
Brouncker, to the King's house, and saw "The Surprizall," where base singing, only Knepp,'
who come, after her song in the clouds, to me in the pit, and there, oranges, 2s.  After the
play, she, and I, and Rolt, by coach, 6s. 6d., to Kensington, and there to the Grotto, and
had admirable pleasure with their singing, and fine ladies listening to us: with infinite pleasure,
I enjoyed myself: so to the tavern there, and did spend 16s. 6d., and the gardener 2s.  Mighty
merry, and sang all the way to the town, a most pleasant evening, moonshine, and set them at
her house in Covent Garden, and I home and to bed.

18th (Saturday).  Up, and my bookseller brought home books, bound--the binding comes to 17s.
Advanced to my maid Bridget L1.  Sir W. Pen at the Office, seemingly merry.  Thence home to
dinner with my clerks, and so to White Hall by water, 1s., and there a short Committee for
Tangier, and so I to the King's playhouse, 1s., and to the play of the "Duke of Lerma," 2s.
6d., and oranges, 1s.  Thence by coach to Westminster, 1s., and the House just up, having been
about money business, 1s.  So home by coach, 3s., calling in Duck Lane, and did get Des Cartes'
Musique in English,' and so home and wrote my letters, and then to my chamber to save my eyes,
and to bed.

19th (Sunday).  Lay long.  Roger Pepys and his son come, and to Church with me, where W. Pen
was, and did endeavour to shew himself to the Church. 

     Even in the early agwes as of nursery, there begins the practical education.The miracles
     cn be performed without the mountbank by the turning of a straw, or the dictorial
     anathematizng tone which calls down vengeance upon those who donot follow
     to an iota the injuctions of a theorist, Parents would save themselves a
     great deal of trouble bya simple observation and the pain of their children
     if they would some attention to their early education.The temper acquires
     habits much earlier than it been usually apprehended, that paves a first inpression with
     infants,and the first habits which they learn from their nurses, influence
     the temper and disposition long after the slight causes.
       And shortlie after, came Sir
     Anthonie Kingston to the miller's house, and calling for the miller,
     the servant came forth, and answered that he was the miller.  'How
     long,' quoth Sir Anthonie, 'hast thou kept this mill?' He answered,
     'Three years.'--'Well, then,' said he, 'come on: thou must go with
     me;' and caused his men to laie hands on him, and to bring him to
     the next tree, saieing to him, 'Thou hast been a busie knave, and
     therefore here shalt thou hang.'  Then cried the fellow out, and
     saide that he was not the miller, but the miller's man.  'Well,
     then,' said Sir Anthonie, 'thou art a false knave to be in two
     tales: therefore,' said he, 'hang him up;' and so incontinentlie
     hanged he was indeed.  After he was dead, one that was present told
     Sir Anthonie, 'Surelie, sir, this was but the miller's man.'--'What
     then!' said he, 'could he ever have done his maister better service
     than to hang for him?'"--B.]

So after dinner I took them by water to White Hall, taking in a very pretty woman at Paul's
Wharf, and there landed we, and I left Roger Pepys and to St. Margaret's Church, and there
saw Betty, and so to walk in the Abbey with Sir John Talbot, who would fain have pumped me
about the prizes, but I would not let him, and so to walk towards Michell's to see her, but
could not, and so to Martin's, and her husband was at home, and so took coach and to the Park,
and thence home and to bed betimes.  Water 1s., coach 5s.  Balty borrowed L2.

20th.  Up betimes and to the getting ready my answer to the Committee of Accounts to several
questions, which makes me trouble, though I know of no blame due to me from any, let them enquire
what they can out.

     [The first part of the entry for April 20th is among the rough
     notes, and stands as follows:  "Monday 20.  Up and busy about answer
     to Committee of Accounts this morning about several questions which
     vexed me though in none I have reason to be troubled.  But the
     business of The Flying Greyhound begins to find me some care, though
     in that I am wholly void of blame."  Thence to Committee of Accounts, and delivered my
paper, and had little discourse, and was unwilling to stay long with them
to enter into much, but away and glad to be from them, though very civil
to me, but cunning and close I see they are.  So to Westminster Hall, and
there find the Parliament upon the Irish business, where going into the
Speaker's chamber I did hear how plainly one lawyer of counsel for the
complainants did inveigh by name against all the late Commissioners there.  Thence took coach and I all alone to
Hyde Park (passing through Duck Lane among the booksellers, only to get a
sight of the pretty little woman I did salute the other night, and did in
passing), and so all the evening in the Park, being a little unwilling to
be seen there, and at night home, and thereto W. Pen's and sat and talked
there with his wife and children a good while, he being busy in his
closet, I believe preparing his defence in Parliament, and so home to bed.

21st. There is nothing wrong with this, but, unfortunately, his educational pursuits and energy were smothered
under the uniform instruction of a maid or a French governess.

Children, the more naturally energetic and curious they are, must
be given things that play to these feelings and are usually less
entertained by the normal toys. Bright and attractive toys may amuse briefly,
but, unless they can be put to good use, they will soon be ignored


     [Sir Charles Berkeley, jun. was chosen in his room.  In the sea-
     fight off Southwold Bay on June 3rd, 1665, the English triumphed
     over the Dutch, but the very considerable victory was not followed
     up.  During the night, while the Duke of York slept, Henry
     Brouncker, his groom of the bedchamber, ordered the lieutenant to
     shorten sail, by which means the progress of the whole fleet was
     retarded, the Duke of York's being the leading ship.  The duke
     affirmed that he first heard of Brouncker's unjustifiable action in
     July, and yet he kept the culprit in his service for nearly two
     years after the offence had come to his knowledge.  After Brouncker
     had been dismissed from the duke's service, the House of Commons
     ejected him.  The whole matter is one of the unsolved difficulties
     of history.  See Lister's "Life of Clarendon," ii., 334 335]

22nd.  Up, and all the morning at my office busy.  At noon, it being washing day, I toward
White Hall, and stopped and dined all alone at Hercules Pillars, where I was mighty pleased
to overhear a woman talk to her counsel how she had troubled her neighbours with law, and did
it very roguishly and wittily. Thence to attend the Council about the business of certificates
to the Exchequer, where the Commissioners of the Treasury of different minds, some would, and
my Lord Ashly would not have any more made out, and carried it there should not. Met with Roger
Pepys, who tells me they have been on the business of money, but not ended yet, but will take
up more time.

23rd.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, and at noon comes Knepp and Mrs. Pierce,
and her daughter, and one Mrs. Foster, and dined with me, and mighty merry, and after dinner
carried them to the Tower, and shewed them all to be seen there, and, among other things, the
Crown and Scepters and rich plate, which I myself never saw before, and indeed is noble, and
I mightily pleased with it.  Thence by water to the Temple, and thereto the Cocke alehouse,
and drank, and eat a lobster, and sang, and mighty merry.  So, almost night, I carried Mrs.
Pierce home, and then Knepp and I to the Temple again, and took boat, it being darkish, and
to Fox Hall, it being now night, and a bonfire burning at Lambeth for the King's coronation-day.
And there she and I drank; .  .  .  .  and so back, and led her home, it being now ten at night;
and so got a link; and, walking towards home, just at my entrance into the ruines at St. Dunstan's,
I was met by two rogues with clubs, who come towards us. So I went back, and walked home quite
round by the wall, and got well home, and to bed weary, but pleased at my day's pleasure, but
yet displeased at my expence, and time I lose.

24th.  Up betimes, and by water to White Hall, to the Duke of York, and there hear that this
day Hopis and Temple purpose to bring in the petition against Sir W. Coventry, which I am sorry
for, but hope he will get out of it.  Here I presented Mrs. Pett and her condition to Mr. Wren
for his favour, which he promised us.  Thence to Lord Brouncker and sat and talked with him,
who thinks the Parliament will, by their violence and delay in money matters, force the King
to run any hazard, and dissolve them. Thence to Ducke Lane, and there did overlook a great
many of Monsieur Fouquet's library, that a bookseller hath bought, and I did buy one Spanish
[work], "Los Illustres Varones."

     [Nicholas Fouquet, "Surintendant des Finances" in France, had built
     at Vaux a house which surpassed in magnificence any palace belonging
     to Louis XIV., prior to the erection of Versailles, and caused much
     envy to all the Court, especially to Colbert.  Fouquet died at
     Pignerol in 1680, after nineteen years' incarceration; and whilst
     Pepys was buying his books in London, Colbert had become prime
     minister in France, and Colbert's brother ambassador in England.
     The 'viper' had caught the 'squirrel'!--B.]

Here did I endeavour to see my pretty woman that I did baiser in las tenebras a little while
depuis.  And did find her sofa in the book[shop], but had not la confidence para alter a elle.
So lost my pains.  But will another time, and so home and to my office, and then to dinner.
After dinner down to the Old Swan, and by the way called at Michell's, and there did see Betty,
and that was all, for either she is shy or foolish, and su mardi hath no mind para laiser me
see su moher.  Thence to the King's playhouse, and there saw a piece of "Beggar's Bush," which
I have not seen some years, and thence home, and there to Sir W. Pen's and supped and sat talking
there late, having no where else to go, and my eyes too bad to read right, and so home to bed.

25th. We always let people know that we use a regular plan, and it is not for lack of trying if we fail
in using our design. We definitely try not to be boring by repeating ourselves, and try very hard to carefully
consider what other people have written, incorporating that writing without taking credit for it. We
really do believe that it is our obligation to follow these simple rules in considering the writings
of others.
  So home and there at the office all the morning.
Thence homeward by the Coffee House in Covent Garden, thinking to have met Harris here but
could not, and so home, and there, after my letters, I home to have my hair cut by my sister
Michell and her husband, and so to bed.  This day I did first put off my waste-coate, the weather
being very hot, but yet lay in it at night, and shall, for a little time.

26th (Lord's day).  Lay long, and then up and to Church, and so home, where there come and
dined with me Harris, Rolt, and Bannister, and one Bland, that sings well also, and very merry
at dinner, and, after dinner, to sing all the afternoon.  But when all was done, I did begin
to think that the pleasure of these people was not worth so often charge and cost to me, as
it hath occasioned me.  They being gone I and Balty walked as far as Charing Cross, and there
got a coach and to Hales's the painter, thinking to have found Harris sitting there for his
picture, which is drawing for me.  But he, and all this day's company, and Hales, were got
to the Crown tavern, at next door, and thither I to them and stayed a minute, leaving Captain
Grant telling pretty stories of people that have killed themselves, or been accessory to it,
in revenge to other people, and to mischief other people, and thence with Hales to his house,
and there did see his beginning of Harris's picture, which I think will be pretty like, and
he promises a very good picture.  Thence with Balty away and got a coach and to Hide Park,
and there up and down and did drink some milk at the Lodge, and so home and to bed.

27th.  At noon with Creed to my Lord Crew's, and there dined; and here was a very fine-skinned
lady dined, the daughter of my Lord Roberts, and also a fine lady, Mr. John Parkhurst his wife,
that was but a boy the other day.  And after dinner there comes in my Lady Roberts herself,
and with her Mr. Roberts's daughter, that was Mrs. Boddevill, the great beauty, and a fine
lady indeed, the first time I saw her.  My Lord Crew, and Sir Thomas, and I, and Creed, all
the afternoon debating of my Lord Sandwich's business, against to-morrow, and thence I to the
King's playhouse, and there saw most of "The Cardinall," a good play, and thence to several
places to pay my debts, and then home, and there took a coach and to Mile End to take a little
ayre, and thence home to Sir W. Pen's, where I supped, and sat all the evening; and being lighted
homeward by Mrs. Markham, I blew out the candle and kissed her, and so home to bed.

28th.  Thence to the New Exchange to pay a debt of my wife's there, and so home, and there
to the office and walk in the garden in the dark to ease my eyes, and so home to supper and to bed.

29th.  Up, and to my office, where all the morning busy.  Did little business with the Duke
of York, and then Lord Brouncker and I to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there saw "Love
in a Tubb;" and, after the play done, I stepped up to Harris's dressing-room, where I never
was, and there I observe much company come to him, and the Witts, to talk, after the play is
done, and to assign meetings. Thence I away to White Hall, and there took coach home with a
stranger I let into the coach, to club with me for it, he going into London, I set him down
at the lower end of Cheapside, and I home, and to Sir W. Pen's, and there sat, and by and by,
it being now about nine o'clock at night, I heard Mercer's voice, and my boy Tom's singing
in the garden, which pleased me mightily, I longing to see the girl, having not seen her since
my wife went; and so into the garden to her and sang, and then home to supper, and mightily
pleased with her company, in talking and singing, and so parted, and to bed.

30th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  So home, and there took up Mrs. Turner and carried
her to Mile End and drank, and so back talking, and so home and to bed, I being mighty cold,
this being a mighty cold day, and I had left off my waistcoat three or four days.  This evening,
coming home in the dusk, I saw and spoke to our Nell, Pain's daughter, and had I not been very
cold I should have taken her to Tower hill para together et toker her.

