 These last, who had demanded everything
of the Crown, were all submission to the Marquis, and yet could not dupe him so fast as he
tried to be duped. Oh! all, all were ready to stay out, or turn their friends in, or what he
pleased. He took this for his own talents in negotiation, came back highly pleased, and notified
his success. The Duke of Grafton wrote to him that the King meant they should come in, to extend
and strengthen his Administration. Too elated with his imaginary power, the Marquis returned
an answer, insolently civil to the Duke, and not commonly decent for the place it was to be
carried to. It said, that his Lordship had laid it down for a principle of the treaty, that
the present Administration was at an end. That supposed, he was ready to form a comprehensive
Ministry, but first must talk to the King.

[Footnote 1: The difficulties were caused by Lord Chatham's illness. He, though Prime Minister,
only held the office of Lord Privy Seal, the Duke of Grafton being First Lord of the Treasury;
consequently, when Lord Chatham became incapable of transacting any business whatever, even
of signing a resignation of his office, the Duke became the Prime Minister, and continued so
for three years.]

Instead of such an answer as such a remonstrance deserved, a very prudent reply was made. The
King approved the idea of a comprehensive Administration: he desired to unite the hearts of
all his subjects: he meant to exclude men of no denomination attached to his person and government;
it was such a Ministry that he intended to appoint. When his Lordship should have formed a
plan on such views, his Majesty would be ready to receive it from him. The great statesman
was wofully puzzled on receiving this message. However, he has summoned his new allies to assist
in composing a scheme or list. When they bring it, how they will bring it formed, or whether
they will ever bring it, the Lord knows. There the matter rests at present. If the Marquis
does not alter his tone, he sinks for ever, and from being the head of a separate band, he
must fall into the train of Grenville, the man whom he and his friends opposed on all the arbitrary
acts of that Ministry, and whom they have irremissibly offended by repealing his darling Stamp
Act. Apropos, America is pacified, and the two factions cannot join to fish in troubled waters,
there, at least.

Lord Clive[1] is arrived, has brought a million for himself, two diamond drops worth twelve
thousand pounds for the Queen, a scimitar dagger, and other matters, covered with brilliants,
for the King, and worth twenty-four thousand more. These baubles are presents from the deposed
and imprisoned Mogul, whose poverty can still afford to give such bribes. Lord Clive refused
some overplus, and gave it to some widows of officers: it amounted to ninety thousand pounds.
He has reduced the appointments of the Governor of Bengal to thirty-two thousand pounds a year;
and, what is better, has left such a chain of forts and distribution of troops as will entirely
secure possession of the country--till we lose it. Thus having composed the Eastern and Western
worlds, we are at leisure to kick and cuff for our own little island, which is great satisfaction;
and I don't doubt but my Lord Temple hopes that we shall be so far engaged before France and
Spain are ripe to meddle with us, that when they do come, they will not be able to re-unite us.

[Footnote 1: It is hardly necessary to point out that this is the taker of Arcot, the victor
of Plassey, and even now second to none but Warren Hastings in the splendid roll of Governors-General.]

Don't let me forget to tell you, that of all the friends you have shot flying, there is no
one whose friendship for you is so little dead as Lord Hillsborough's. He spoke to me earnestly
about your Riband the other day, and said he had pressed to have it given to you. Write and
thank him. You have missed one by Lord Clive's returning alive, unless he should give a hamper
of diamonds for the Garter.

Well! I have remembered every point but one--and see how he is forgotten! Lord Chatham! He
was pressed to come forth and set the Administration on its legs again. He pleaded total incapacity;
grew worse and grows better. Oh! how he ought to dread recovering!

Mr. Conway resigns the day after to-morrow. I hope in a week to tell you something more positive
than the uncertainties in this letter. Good-night.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

PARIS, Sept. 27, 1767.

Since you insist on my writing from hence, I will; I intended to defer it a few days longer,
as I shall set out on my return this day se'nnight.

Within the five weeks of my being here, there have happened three deaths, which certainly nobody
expected six weeks ago. Yet, though the persons were all considerable, their loss will make
little impression on the state of any affairs.

Monsieur de Guerchy returned from his embassy with us about a month before my arrival. He had
been out of order some time, and had taken waters, yet seeing him so often I had perceived
no change, till I was made to remark it, and then I did not think it considerable. On my arrival,
I was shocked at the precipitate alteration. He was emaciated, yellow, and scarcely able to
support himself. A fever came on in ten days, mortification ensued, and carried him off. It
is said that he had concealed and tampered indiscreetly with an old complaint, acquired before
his marriage. This was his radical death; I doubt, vexation and disappointment fermented the
wound. Instead of the duchy he hoped, his reception was freezing. He was a frank, gallant gentleman;
universally beloved with us; hated I believe by nobody, and by no means inferior in understanding
to many who affected to despise his abilities.

But our comet is set too! Charles Townshend[1] is dead. All those parts and fire are extinguished;
those volatile salts are evaporated; that first eloquence of the world is dumb! that duplicity
is fixed, that cowardice terminated heroically. He joked on death as naturally as he used to
do on the living, and not with the affectation of philosophers, who wind up their works with
sayings which they hope to have remembered. With a robust person he had always a menacing constitution.
He had had a fever the whole summer, recovered as it was thought, relapsed, was neglected,
and it turned to an incurable putrid fever.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Townshend was Chancellor of the Exchequer; and he might have been added by
Lord Macaulay to his list of men whom their eloquence had caused to be placed in offices for
which they were totally unfit; for he had not only no special knowledge of finance, but he
was one of the most careless and incautious of mankind, even in his oratory. In that, however,
after the retirement of Lord Chatham, he seems to have had no rival in either house but Mr.
Burke. It was to his heedless resumption of Grenville's plan of taxing our colonies in North
America that our loss of them was owing. In his "Memoirs of the Reign of George III." Walpole
gives the following description of him: "Charles Townshend, who had studied nothing with accuracy
or attention, had parts that embraced all knowledge with such quickness that he seemed to create
knowledge, instead of searching for it; and, ready as Burke's wit was, it appeared artificial
when set by that of Townshend, which was so abundant that in him it seemed a loss of time to
think. He had but to speak, and all he said was new, natural, and yet uncommon. If Burke replied
extempore, his very answers that sprang from what had been said by others were so pointed and
artfully arranged that they wore the appearance of study and preparation; like beautiful translations,
they seemed to want the soul of the original author. Townshend's speeches, like the 'Satires'
of Pope, had a thousand times more sense and meaning than the majestic blank verse of Pitt;
and yet the latter, like Milton, stalked with a conscious dignity of pre-eminence, and fascinated
his audience with that respect which always attends the pompous but often hollow idea of the
sublime." Burke, too, in one of his speeches on American affairs, utters a still warmer panegyric
on his character and abilities, while lamenting his policy and its fruits: "I speak of Charles
Townshend, officially the reproducer of this fatal scheme [the taxation of the colonies], whom
I cannot, even now, remember without some degree of sensibility. In truth, Sir, he was the
delight and ornament of this House, and the charm of every private society which he honoured
with his presence. Perhaps there never arose in this country, nor in any country, a man of
a more pointed and finished wit, and (where his passions were not concerned) of a more refined,
exquisite, and penetrating judgment. If he had not so great a stock, as some have had who flourished
formerly, of knowledge long treasured up, he knew better by far than any man I was ever acquainted
with how to bring together within a short time all that was necessary to establish, to illustrate,
and to decorate that side of the question he supported. He stated his matter skillfully and
powerfully. He particularly excelled in a most luminous explanation and display of his subject.
His style of argument was neither trite nor vulgar, nor subtle and abstruse. He hit the House
between wind and water; and, not being troubled with too anxious a zeal for any matter in question,
he was never more tedious nor more earnest than the preconceived opinions and present temper
of his hearers required, with whom he was always in perfect unison. He conformed exactly to
the temper of the House; and he seemed to lead because he was always sure to follow it."]

The Opposition expected that the loss of this essential pin would loosen the whole frame; but
it had been hard, if both his life and death were to be pernicious to the Administration. He
had engaged to betray the latter to the former, as I knew early, and as Lord Mansfield has
since declared. I therefore could not think the loss of him a misfortune. His seals were immediately
offered to Lord North,[1] who declined them. The Opposition rejoiced; but they ought to have
been better acquainted with one educated in their own school. Lord North has since accepted
the seals--and the reversion of his father's pension.

[Footnote 1: Lord North succeeded Townshend as Chancellor of the Exchequer; and, when the Duke
of Grafton retired, he became First Lord of the Treasury also, and continued to hold both offices
till the spring of 1782.]

While that eccentric genius, Charles Townshend, whom no system could contain, is whirled out
of existence, our more artificial meteor, Lord Chatham, seems to be wheeling back to the sphere
of business--at least his health is declared to be re-established; but he has lost his adorers,
the mob, and I doubt the wise men will not travel after his light.

You, my dear Sir, will be most concerned for the poor Duke of York,[1] who has ended his silly,
good-humoured, troublesome career, in a piteous manner. He had come to the camp at Compiègne,
without his brother's approbation, but had been received here not only with every proper mark
of distinction, but with the utmost kindness. He had succeeded, too, was attentive, civil,
obliging, lively, pleased, and very happy in his replies. Charmed with a Court so lively in
comparison of the monastic scene at home, he had promised to return for Fontainebleau, and
then scampered away as fast as he could ride or drive all round the South of France, intending
to visit a lady at Genoa, with whom he was in love, whenever he had a minute's time. The Duc
de Villars gave him a ball at his country-house, between Aix and Marseilles; the Duke of York
danced at it all night as hard as if it made part of his road, and then in a violent sweat,
and without changing his linen, got into his postchaise. At Marseilles the scene changed. He
arrived in a fever, and found among his letters, which he had ordered to meet him there, one
from the King his brother, forbidding him to go to Compiègne, by the advice of the Hereditary
Prince. He was struck with this letter, which he had ignorantly disobeyed, and by the same
ignorance had not answered. He proceeded, however, on his journey, but grew so ill that his
gentlemen carried him to Monaco, where he arrived on the third, and languished with great suffering
until the seventeenth. He behaved with the most perfect tranquillity and courage, made a short
will, and the day before he died dictated to Colonel St. John, a letter to the King, in which
he begged his forgiveness for every instance in which he had offended him, and entreated his
favour to his servants. He would have particularly recommended St. John, but the young man
said handsomely, "Sir, if the letter were written by your Royal Highness yourself, it would
be most kind to me; but I cannot name myself." The Prince of Monaco, who happened to be on
the spot, was unbounded in his attentions to him, both of care and honours; and visited him
every hour till the Duke grew too weak to see him. Two days before he died the Duke sent for
the Prince, and thanked him. You swore You were going to be shot at the close of the season,
And you couldn't spare that, as there weren't any more. But at length I prevailed, or at least
you relented, After ever so many excuses--in fine We agreed to a compact, you only consented
On condition I gave you a portrait of mine.

Well, I promised, of course. And I write you these verses With your face--you'll forgive me--quite close
to my own. There's a charm in your look that completely disperses
All my cares in a way that is yours, dear, alone.

And although I am pleased, since I won in the end--a More ridiculous
bargain has never, I vow, Been arranged than a picture of pretty MELENDA,
In exchange for the photograph sent to you now.

 I told them they were very good to imitate us in anything, but that they had adopted
the two dullest things we have, Whist and Richardson's Novels.

[Footnote 1: Walpole here speaks of whist as a game of but new introduction in Paris, though
it had been for some time established with us. And the great authority on that scientific and
beautiful game, the late Mr. James Clay, writing about twenty years ago, fixes "thirty or more
years" before that date as the time when first "we began to hear of the great Paris players.
There was," he says, "a wide difference between their system and our own," the special distinction
being that "the English player of the old school never thought of winning the game until he
saw that it was saved; the French player never thought of saving the game until he saw that
he could not win it;" and "if forced to take his choice between these systems carried to their
extremes." Mr. Clay "would, without hesitation, prefer the game of rash attack" (that is, the
French system) "to that of over-cautious defence." And he assigns to a French player, M. Des
Chapelles, "the credit of being the finest whist-player, beyond any comparison, the world has
ever seen."]

So you and the Pope are going to have the Emperor! Times are a little altered; no Guelphs and
Ghibellines[1] now. I do not think the Caesar of the day will hold his Holiness's stirrup[2]
while he mounts his palfrey. Adieu!

[Footnote 1: "Guelfs and Ghibellines." These two names were first heard in the latter part
of the twelfth century, to distinguish the partisans of the Emperor and the Pope. "The Guelfs
or Welfs were the ancestors of Henry the Proud, who, through his mother, represented the ancient
Dukes of Saxony. The word Ghibelin is derived from Wibelung, a town in Franconia, from which
the emperors of that time are said to nave sprung. The house of Swabia were considered in Germany
as representing that of Franconia" (Hallam, "Middle Ages," ii. p. 101).]

[Footnote 2: "His Holiness's stirrup." This refers to the humiliation imposed on the Emperor
Frederic Barbarossa by Pope Alexander III., as related by Byron in his note on "Childe Harold,"
c. iv. st. 12.]

SOME NEW POEMS OF GRAY--WALPOLE'S "HISTORIC DOUBTS"--BOSWELL'S "CORSICA."

TO MR. GRAY.

ARLINGTON STREET, Feb. 18, 1768.

[Footnote 1: He is here alluding to his own very clever essay, entitled "Historic Doubts on
the Life and Reign of Richard III." It failed to convince Hume; but can hardly be denied to
be a singularly acute specimen of historical criticism. It does not, indeed, prove Richard
to have been innocent of all the crimes imputed to him; but it proves conclusively that much
of the evidence by which the various charges are supported is false. The letter, from which
this passage is an extract, was to a certain extent an answer to one from Gray, who, while
praising the ingenuity of his arguments, avowed himself still unconvinced by them.]

Not only at Cambridge, but here, there have been people wise enough to think me too free with
the King of Prussia! Walpole himself points out in a note that this is a quotation from Pope:
"I have found him close with Swift." "Indeed?" "No doubt, (Cries prating Balbus) something
will come out"

[Footnote 1: Boswell, Dr. Johnson's celebrated biographer, had taken great interest in the
affairs of Corsica, which, in this year (1768), Choiseul, the Prime Minister of France, had
bought of Genoa, to which State it had long belonged. Paoli was a Corsican noble, who had roused
his countrymen to throw off the domination of Genoa; and, on the arrival of French troops to
take possession of their purchase, he made a vigorous resistance to the French General, the
Comte de Marboeuf; but eventually he was overpowered, and forced to fly. He took refuge in
England, where George III. granted him a pension, which he enjoyed till his death in 1807,
when he was buried in Westminster Abbey. One of his relations was M. Charles Buonaparte, the
father of Napoleon, who was only prevented from accompanying him in his abandonment of Corsica
by the persuasion of his uncle, the Archdeacon of Ajaccio. Boswell, who was apt to be enthusiastic
in his hero-worship and anxiety for new acquaintances (whom, it must be admitted, he commonly
chose with judgement, if with little dignity), introduced him to Johnson, who also conceived
a high regard for him, and on one occasion remarked that "he had the loftiest port of any man
he had ever seen."]

[Footnote 2: After several outbreaks within a few years, the Corsicans in 1736 embarked in
a revolt so formal and complete that they altogether threw off their allegiance to Genoa, and
chose as their king Theodore Neuhof, a Westphalian baron. But Cardinal Fleury, the French Prime
Minister, from a belief that Theodore was an instrument of Walpole, lent the Genoese a force
of three thousand men, which at last succeeded in crushing the insurrection and expelling Theodore.
(See the Editor's "France under the Bourbons," iii. 157.) Theodore is one of the six ex-kings
whom, in Voltaire's "Candide," his hero met at a hotel in Venice during the carnival, when
he gave a melancholy account of his reverse of fortune. "He had been called 'Your Majesty;'
now he can hardly find any one to call him 'Sir.' He had coined money; now he has not a penny
of his own. He had had two Secretaries of State; now he has but one valet. He had sat on a
throne; but since that time he had laid on straw in a London prison."

WILKES IS RETURNED M.P. FOR MIDDLESEX--RIOTS IN LONDON--VIOLENCE OF THE MOB.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Thursday, March 31, 1768.

I have received your letter, with the extract of that from Mr. Mackenzie. I do not think any
honours will be bestowed yet. The Peerages are all postponed to an indefinite time. If you
are in a violent hurry, you may petition the ghosts of your neighbours--Masaniello and the
Gracchi. The spirit of one of them walks here; nay, I saw it go by my window yesterday, at
noon, in a hackney chair.

Friday.

