'To be sure, Isabel,' chimed in Walter.  'A fellow at my tutor's had it, and did nothing but
wind silkworm's silk all the time.  We shall have James yet to spend Christmas with us.  Everybody
laughs at the jaundice, though Fitzjocelyn does look so lugubrious that he had almost frightened
me.'

'Is this true?' said Isabel, looking from one to the other, as if she had been frightened in vain.

'Quite true, Isabel,' said Walter.  'Never mind Fitzjocelyn's long face; I wouldn't go if I
were you!  Don't spoil the holidays.'

'I must go, Walter dear,' said Isabel, 'but I do not think Lord Fitzjocelyn would play with
my fears.  Either he is very ill, or something else is wrong.'

'You have guessed it, Isabel,' said Louis.  'This illness is partly the effect of distress
of mind.'

'That horrid meeting of trustees!' cried Isabel.  'I am sure they have been impertinent.'

'They objected to some of his doings; he answered by threatening to resign, and I am sorry
to say that the opposition set prevailed to have his resignation accepted.'

'A very good thing too,' cried Sir Walter.  'I always thought that school a shabby concern.
To be under a lot of butchers and bakers, and nothing but cads among the boys!  He ought to
be heartily glad to be rid of the crew.'

Isabel's indignation was checked by a sort of melancholy amusement at her brother's view, but
Louis doubted whether she realized the weight of her own words as she answered--'Unfortunately,
Walter, it is nearly all we have to live upon.'

'So much the better,' continued Walter.  'I'll tell you--you shall all go to Thornton Conway,
and I'll come and spend my holidays there, instead of kicking my heels at these stupid places.
I shan't mind your babies a bit, and Frost may call himself my tutor if he likes. I don't care
if you take me away from Eton.'

'A kind scheme, Walter,' said Isabel, 'but wanting in two important points, mamma's consent
and James's.'

'Oh, I'll take care of mamma!'

'I'm afraid I can't promise the same as to James.'

'Ah! I see.  Delaford was quite right when he said Mr. Frost was a gentleman who never knew
what was for his own advantage.'

As they arrived at the house, Isabel desired to know how soon she must be ready, and went upstairs.
Walter detained his cousin--'I say, Fitzjocelyn, have they really got nothing to live on?'

'No more than will keep them from absolute want.'

'I shall take them home,' said Walter, with much satisfaction. 'I shall write to tell James
that there is nothing else to be done. I cannot do without Isabel, and I'll make my mother
consent.'

Fitzjocelyn was glad to be freed from the boy on any terms, and to see him go off to write
his letter.

Walter was at least sincere and warm-hearted in his selfishness, and so more agreeable than
his mother, whom Louis found much distressed, under the secret conviction that something might
be expected of her. 'Poor Isabel!  I wish she could come to me; but so many of them--and we
without a settled home.  If there were no children--but London houses are so small; and, indeed,
it would be no true kindness to let them live in our style for a little while.  They must run
to expenses in dress; it would be much more economical at home, and I could send Walter to
them if he is very troublesome.'

'Thank you,' said Louis.  'I think James will be able to ride out the storm independently.'

'I know that would be his wish.  And I think I heard that Mr. Dynevor objected to the school.
That might be one obstacle removed.'

Lady Conway comforted herself by flourishing on into predictions that all would now be right,
and that poor dear Isabel would soon be a much richer woman than herself; while Louis listened
to the castle-building, not thinking it worth while to make useless counter-prophecies.

The sisters were upstairs, assisting Isabel, and they all came down together.  The girls were
crying; but Isabel's dark, soft eyes, and noble head, had an air of calm, resolute elevation,
which drove all Louis's misgivings away, and which seemed quite beyond and above the region
of Lady Conway's caresses and affectionate speeches.  Walter and Virginia came up to the station,
and parted with their sister with fondness that was much mure refreshing, Walter reiterating
that his was the only plan.

'Now, Fitzjocelyn,' said Isabel, when they were shut into a coupe, 'tell me what you said about
distress of mind.  It has haunted me whether you used those words.'

'Could you doubt his distress at such a state of affairs?'

'I thought there could be no distress of mind where the suffering is for the truth.'

'Ah! if he could quite feel it so!'

'What do you mean?  There has been a cabal against James from the first to make him lay aside
his principles, and I cannot regret his refusal to submit to improper dictation, at whatever
cost to myself.'

'I am afraid he better knows than you do what that cost is likely to be.'

'Does he think I cannot bear poverty?' exclaimed Isabel.

'He had not said so--' began Louis; 'but--'

'You both think me a poor, helpless creature,' said Isabel, her eyes kindling as they had done
in the midst of danger.  'I can do better than you think.  I may be able myself to do something
towards our maintenance.'

He could not help answering, in the tone that gave courtesy to almost any words, 'I am afraid
it does not answer for the wife to be the bread-winner.'

'Then you doubt my writing being worth anything?' she asked, in a hurt tone of humility.  'Tell
me candidly, for it would be the greatest kindness;' and her eye unconsciously sought the bag
where lay Sir Hubert, whom all this time her imagination was exalting, as the hero who would
free them from their distresses.

'Worth much pleasure to me, to the world at large,' said Louis; 'but--you told me to speak
plainly--to your home, would any remuneration be worth your own personal care?'

Isabel coloured, but did not speak.

Louis ventured another sentence--'It is a delicate subject, but you must know better than I
how far James would be likely to bear that another, even you, should work for his livelihood.'

When Isabel spoke again, it was to ask further particulars; and when he had told all, she found
solace in exclaiming at the folly and injustice of James's enemies, until the sense of fairness
obliged him to say, 'I wish the right and the wrong ever were fairly divided in this world;
and yet perhaps it is best as it is: the grain of right on either side may save the sin from
being a presumptuous one.'

'It would be hard to find the one grain of right on the part of the Ramsbotham cabal.'

'Perhaps you would not think so, if you were a boy's mother.'

'Oh!' cried Isabel, with tears in her eyes, 'if he thought he had been too hasty, he always
made such reparation that only cowards could help being touched.  I'm sure they deserved it,
and much more.'

'No doubt,' said Louis; 'but, alas! if all had their deserts--'

'Then you really think he was too severe?'

'I think his constitutional character was hardly fit for so trying a post, and that his family
and school troubles reacted upon each other.'

'You mean Clara's conduct; and dear grandmamma--oh! if she could but have stayed with us! 
If you could have seen how haggard and grieved he came home from Cheveleigh!  I do not think
he has been quite the same ever since.'

'And No. 5 has never been the same,' said Louis.

'Tell me,' said Isabel, suddenly, 'are we very poor indeed?'

'I fear so, Isabel.  Till James can find some employment, I fear there is a stern struggle
with poverty before you.'

'Does that mean living as the Faithfulls do?'

'Yes, I think your means will be nearly the same as theirs.'

'Fitzjocelyn,' said Isabel, after a long pause, 'I see what you have been implying all this
time, and I have been feeling it too.  I have been absorbed in my own pursuits, and not paid
attention enough to details of management, and so I have helped to fret and vex my husband.
You all think my habits an additional evil in this trial.'

'James has never said a word of the kind,' cried Louis.

'I know he has not; but I ought to have opened my eyes to it long ago, and I thank you for
helping me.  There--will you take that manuscript, and keep it out of my way?  It has been
a great tempter to me.  It is finished now, and it might bring in something.  But I can have
only one thought now--how to make James happier and more at ease.'

'Then, Isabel, I don't think your misfortunes will be misfortunes.'

'To suffer for right principles should give strength for anything,' said Isabel.  'Think what
many better women than I have had to endure, when they have had to be ashamed of their husband,
not proud of him! Now, I do hope and trust that God will help us, and carry us and the children
through with it!'

Louis felt that in this frame she was truly fit to cheer and sustain James.  How she might
endure the actual struggle with penury, he dared not imagine; at present he could only be carried
along by her lofty composure.

James still lay on his tossed, uncomfortable bed in the evening twilight.  The long, lonely
hours, when he imagined Louis to have taken him at his word and gone home, had given him a
miserable sense of desertion, and as increasing sensations of illness took from him the hopes
of moving on that day, he became distracted at the thought of the anxiety his silence would
cause Isabel, and, after vainly attempting to write, had been lying with the door open, watching
for some approaching step.

There was the familiar sound of a soft, gliding step on the stairs, then a pause, and the sweet
soft voice, 'My poor James, how sadly uncomfortable you are!'

'My dear!' he cried, hastily raising himself, 'who has been frightening you?'

'No one, Fitzjocelyn was so kind as to come for me.'

'Ah! I wished you to have been spared this unpleasant business.'

'Do you think I could bear to stay away!  Oh, James! have I been too useless and helpless for
you even to be glad to see me?'

'It was for your own sake,' he murmured, pressing her hand.  'Has Fitzjocelyn told you?'

'Yes,' said Isabel, looking up, as she sat beside him.  'Never mind, James.  It is better to
suffer wrong than to do it.  I do not fear but that, if we strive to do our duty, God will
help us, and make it turn out for the best for our children and ourselves.'

He grasped her hand in intense emotion.

'I know you are anxious about me,' added Isabel.  'My ways have been too self-indulgent for
you to think I can bear hardness.  I made too many professions at first; I will make no more
now, but only tell you that I trust to do my utmost, and not shrink from my duties.  And now,
not a word more about it till you are better.'

CHAPTER XV.

SWEET USES OF ADVERSITY.

  One furnace many times the good and bad will hold;
  But what consumes the chaff will only cleanse the gold.
                                           R. C. TRENCH.

During the succeeding days, James had little will or power to consider his affairs; and Isabel,
while attending on him, had time to think over her plans.  Happily, they had not a debt.  Mrs.
Frost had so entirely impressed her grandson's mind with her own invariable rule of paying
her way, that it had been one of his grounds for pride that he had never owed anything to any man.

They were thus free to choose their own course, but Lord Ormersfield urged their remaining
at Northwold for the present.  He saw Mr. Calcott, who had been exceedingly concerned at the
turn affairs had taken, and very far from wishing to depose James, though thinking that he
needed an exhortation to take heed to his ways.  It had been an improper reprimand, improperly
received; but the Earl and the Squire agreed that nothing but morbid fancy could conjure up
disgrace, such as need prevent James Frost from remaining in his own house until he could obtain
employment, provided he and his wife had the resolution to contract their style of living under
the eye of their neighbours.

This gave neither of them a moment's uneasiness.  It was not the direction of their pride;
and even before James's aching head was troubled with deliberation, Isabel had discussed her
plan with the Miss Faithfulls.  She would imagine herself in a colony, and be troubled with
no more scruples about the conventional tasks of a lady than if she were in the back-woods.

They would shut up some of the rooms, take one servant of all-work, and Isabel would be nursery-maid
herself.  'We may do quite as well as the carpenter's wife,' she said; 'she has more children
and less income, and yet always seems to me the richest person whom I know.'

James groaned, and turned his face away.  He could not forbid it, for even Isabel's exertion
must be permitted rather than the dishonour of living beyond their means; and he consoled himself
with thinking that when the deadening inertness of his illness should leave him, he should
see some means of finding employment for himself, which would save her from toil and exertion,
and, in the meantime, with all his keen self-reproach, it was a blessed thing to have been
brought back to his enthusiastic admiration for her, all discontents and drawbacks utterly
forgotten in her assiduous affection and gallant cheerfulness.

Lord Ormersfield had readily acceded to his son's wish to bring the party to spend Christmas
at Ormersfield, as soon as James could be moved.  During their visit the changes were to be
made, and before setting out Isabel had to speak to the servants.  Charlotte's alacrity and
usefulness had made her doubly esteemed during her master's illness; and when he heard how
she was to be disposed of, he seemed much vexed.  He said that she was a legacy from his grandmother,
and too innocent and pretty to be cast about among strange servants in all the places where
the Conways visited; and that he would not have consented to the transfer, but that, under
their present circumstances, it was impossible to keep her.  If any evil came to her, it would
be another miserable effect of his own temper.

Isabel thought he exaggerated the dangers, and she spoke brightly to Charlotte about fixing
the day of her going to Estminster, so as to be put into the ways of the place before her predecessor
departed. The tears at once came into Charlotte's eyes, and she answered, 'If you please, ma'am,
I should be very sorry to leave, unless I did not give satisfaction.'

'That is far from being the reason, Charlotte; but we cannot keep so good a servant--Mr. Frost
has given up--'

'I have been put out of the school,' said James, from his sofa, in his stern sense of truth.
'We must live on as little as possible, and therefore must part with you, Charlotte, though
from no fault of yours. You must look on us as your friends, and in any difficulty apply to
us; for, as Mrs. Frost says, we look on you as a charge from my grandmother.'

Charlotte escaped to hide her tears; and when, a few minutes after, the Ormersfield carriage
arrived, and nurses and babies were packed in, and her master walked feebly and languidly down
stairs, and her mistress turned round to say, kindly, 'You will let me know, Charlotte?' she
just articulated, 'Thank you, ma'am, I will write.'

