"Whither away?" he said as he took off his hat. "Were you up as late as I? And are balls worth
their headaches?"

She was clearly surprised by the ease and gaiety of his manner, and at the same time--he thought--inclined
to resent his interruption of her walk, before she had made up her mind in what mood, or with
what aspect to meet him next. But he gave her no time for further pondering. He walked beside
her, while she coldly explained that she had taken Nora to meet some girl friends at the Cherwell
boat-house, and was now hurrying back herself to pay some calls with her aunt in the afternoon.

"What a week you have had!" he said when she paused. "Is there anything left of you? I saw
that you stayed very late last night."

She admitted it.

"As for me, of course, I thought the ball--intolerable. But that of course you know--you must
know!" he added with a sudden vehement emphasis. "May I not even say that you intended it?
You meant to scourge me, and you succeeded."

Constance laughed, though he perceived that her lip trembled a little.

"The scourging had, I think--compensations."

"You mean I took refuge with Mrs. Glendower? Yes, she was kind--and useful. She is an old friend--more
of the family than mine. She is coming to stay at Flood in August."

"Indeed?" The tone was as cool as his own. There was a moment's pause. Then Falloden turned
another face upon her.

"Lady Constance!--I have something rather serious and painful to tell you--and I am glad of
this opportunity to tell you before you hear it from any one else. There was a row in college
last night, or rather this morning, after the ball, and Otto Radowitz was hurt."

The colour rushed into Connie's face. She stopped. All around them the park stretched, grey
and empty. There was no one in sight on the path where they had met.

"But not seriously," she breathed.

"His hand was hurt in the scuffle!"

Constance gave a cry.

"His hand!"

"Yes. I knew you'd feel that. It was a horrible shame--and a pure accident. But you'd better
know the whole truth. It was a rag, and I was in it. But, of course, nobody had the smallest
intention of hurting Radowitz."

"No--only of persecuting and humiliating him!" cried Constance, her eyes filling with tears.
"His hand!--oh, how horrible! If it were really injured, if it hindered his music--if it stopped
it--it would just kill him!"

"Very likely it is only a simple injury which will quickly heal," said Falloden coldly. "Sorell
has taken him up to town this afternoon to see the best man he can get. We shall know to-morrow,
but there is really no reason to expect anything--dreadful."

"How did it happen?"

"We tried to duck him in Neptune--the college fountain. There was a tussle, and his hand was
cut by a bit of broken piping. You perhaps don't know that he made a speech last week, attacking
several of us in a very offensive way. The men in college got hold of it last night. A man
who does that kind of thing runs risks."

"He was only defending himself!" cried Constance. "He has been ragged, and bullied, and ill-treated--again
and again--just because he is a foreigner and unlike the rest of you. And you have been the
worst of any--you know you have! And I have begged you to let him alone! And if--if you had
really been my friend--you would have done it--only to please me!"

"I happened to be more than your friend!"--said Falloden passionately. "Now let me speak out!
You danced with Radowitz last night, dance after dance--so that it was the excitement, the
event of the ball--and you did it deliberately to show me that I was nothing to you--nothing!--and
he, at any rate, was something. Well!--I began to see red. You forget--that"--he spoke with
difficulty--"my temperament is not exactly saintly. You have had warning, I think, of that
often. When I got back to college, I found a group of men in the quad reading the skit in The
New Oxonian. Suddenly Radowitz came in upon us. I confess I lost my head. Oh, yes, I could
have stopped it easily. On the contrary, I led it. But I must ask you--because I have so much
at stake!--was I alone to blame?--Was there not some excuse?--had you no part in it?"

He stood over her, a splendid accusing figure, and the excited girl beside him was bewildered
by the adroitness with which he had carried the war into her own country.

"How mean!--how ungenerous!" Her agitation would hardly let her speak coherently. "When we
were riding, you ordered me--yes, it was practically that!--you warned me, in a manner that
nobody--nobody --has any right to use with me--unless he were my fiancé or my husband--that
I was not to dance with Otto Radowitz--I was not to see so much of Mr. Sorell. So just to show
you that I was really not at your beck and call--that you could not do exactly what you liked
with me--I danced with Mr. Radowitz last night, and I refused to dance with you. Oh, yes, I
know I was foolish--I daresay I was in a temper too--but how you can make that any excuse for
your attack on that poor boy--how you can make me responsible, if--"

Her voice failed her. But Falloden saw that he had won some advantage, and he pushed on.

"I only want to point out that a man is not exactly a stock or a stone to be played with as
you played with me last night. Those things are dangerous! Can you deny--that you have given
me some reason to hope--since we met again--to hope confidently, that you might change your
mind? Would you have let me arrange those rides for you--unknown to your friends--would you
have met me in the woods, those heavenly times--would you have danced with me as you did--would
you have let me pay you in public every sort of attention that a man can pay to a girl, when
he wants to marry her, the night of the Marmion ball--if you had not felt something for me--if
you had not meant to give me a little hope--to keep the thing at least uncertain? No!--if this
business does turn out badly, I shall have remorse enough, God knows--but you can't escape!
If you punish me for it, if I alone am to pay the penalty, it will be not only Radowitz that
has a grievance--not only Radowitz whose life will have been spoilt!"

She turned to him--hypnotised, subdued, by the note of fierce accusation--by that self-pity
of the egotist--which looked out upon her from the young man's pale face and tense bearing.

"No"--she said trembling--"no--it is quite true--I have treated you badly. I have behaved wilfully
and foolishly. But that was no reason--no excuse--"

"What's the good of talking of 'reason'--or excuse'?" Falloden interrupted violently. "Do you
understand that I am in love with you--and what that means to a man? I tore myself away from
Oxford, because I knew that if I stayed another day within reach of you--after that first ride--I
should lose my class--disappoint my father--and injure my career. I could think of nothing
but you--dream of nothing but you. And I said to myself that my success--my career--might after
all be your affair as well as mine. And so I went. And I'm not going to boast of what it cost
me to go, knowing that other people would be seeing you--influencing you--perhaps setting you
against me--all the time I was away. But then when I came back, I couldn't understand you.
You avoided me. It was nothing but check after check--which you seemed to enjoy inflicting.
At last, on the night of our ball I seemed to see clear. On that night, I did think--yes, I
did think, that I was something to you!--that you could not have been so sweet--so adorable--in
the sight of the whole world--unless you had meant that--in time it would all come right. And
so next day, on our ride, I took the tone I did. I was a fool; of course. All men are, when
they strike too soon. But if you had had any real feeling in your heart for me--if you had
cared one ten-thousandth part for me, as I care for you, you couldn't have treated me as you
did last night--so outrageously--so cruelly!"

The strong man beside her was now trembling from head to foot. Constance, hard-pressed, conscience-struck,
utterly miserable, did not know what to reply. Falloden went on impetuously:

"And now at least don't decide against me without thinking--without considering what I have
been saying. Of course the whole thing may blow over. Radowitz may be all right in a fortnight.
But if he is not--if between us, we've done something sad and terrible, let's stand together,
for God's sake!--let's help each other. Neither of us meant it. Don't let's make everything
worse by separating and stabbing each other. I shall hear what has happened by to-night. Let
me come and bring you the news. If there's no great harm done--why--you shall tell me what
kind of letter to write to Radowitz. I'm in your hands. But if it's bad--if there's blood-poisoning
and Radowitz loses his hand--that they say is the worst that can happen--I of course shall
feel like hanging myself--everybody will, who was in the row. But next to him, to Radowitz
himself, whom should you pity more than--the man--who--was three parts to blame--for injuring him?"

His hoarse voice dropped. They came simultaneously, involuntarily to a standstill. Constance
was shaken by alternate waves of feeling. Half of what he said seemed to her insolent sophistry;
but there was something else which touched--which paralysed her. For the first time she knew
that this had been no mere game she had been playing with Douglas Falloden. Just as Falloden
in his careless selfishness might prove to have broken Otto Radowitz's life, as a passionate
child breaks a toy, so she had it in her power to break Falloden.

They had wandered down again, without knowing it, to the banks of the river, and were standing
in the shelter of a group of young chestnuts, looking towards the hills, over which hung great
thunder-clouds.

At last Constance held out her hand.

"Please go now," she said pleadingly. "Send me word to-night. But don't come. Let's hope. I--I
can't say any more."

And indeed he saw that she could bear no more. He hesitated--yielded--took her unresisting
hand, which he pressed violently to his lips--and was gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hour after hour passed. Falloden had employed Meyrick as an intermediary with a great friend
of Sorell's, one Benham, another fellow of St. Cyprian's, who had--so Meyrick reported--helped
Sorell to get Radowitz to the station in time for the two o'clock train to London. The plan,
according to Benham, was to go straight to Sir Horley Wood, who had been telegraphed to in
the morning, and had made an appointment for 4.30. Benham was to hear the result of the great
surgeon's examination as soon as possible, and hoped to let Meyrick have it somewhere between
seven and eight.

Four or five other men, who had been concerned in the row, including Desmond and Robertson,
hung about college, miserably waiting. Falloden and Meyrick ordered horses and went off into
the country, hardly speaking to each other during the whole of the ride. They returned to their
Beaumont Street lodgings about seven, and after a sombre dinner Meyrick went out to go and
enquire at St. Cyprian's.

He had scarcely gone when the last Oxford post arrived, and a letter was brought up for Falloden.
It was addressed in his father's hand-writing. He opened it mechanically; and in his preoccupation,
he read it several times before he grasped his meaning.

       *       *       *       *       *

"My dear Son,"--wrote Sir Arthur Falloden--"We expected you home early this week, for you do
not seem to have told us that you were staying up for Commem. In any case, please come home
at once. There are some very grave matters about which I must consult with you, and which will
I fear greatly affect your future. You will find me in great trouble, and far from well. Your
poor mother means very kindly, but she can't advise me. I have long dreaded the explanations
which can not now be avoided. The family situation has been going from bad to worse,--and I
have said nothing--hoping always to find some way out. But now it is precisely my fear that--if
we can't discover it--you will find yourself, without preparation, ruined on the threshold
of life, which drives me to tell you everything. Your head is a cleverer one than mine. You
may think of something. It is of course the coal-mining that has come to grief, and dragged
in all the rest. I have been breaking down with anxiety. And you, my poor boy!--I remember
you said when we met last, that you hoped to marry soon--perhaps this year--and go into Parliament.
I am afraid all that is at an end, unless you can find a girl with money, which of course you
ought to have no difficulty in doing, with your advantages.

"But it is no good writing. Come to-morrow, and wire your train.

             "Your loving father,
                    ARTHUR FALLODEN."

"'Ruined on the threshold of life'--what does he mean?"--thought Falloden impatiently. "Father
always likes booky phrases like that. I suppose he's been dropping a thousand or two as he
did last year--hullo!"

As he stood by the window, he perceived the Hoopers' parlourmaid coming up Beaumont Street
and looking at the numbers on the houses. He ran out to meet her, and took a note from her hand.

"I will send or bring an answer. You needn't wait." He carried it into his own room, and locked
the door before opening it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Dear Mr. Falloden,--Mr. Sorell has just been here. He left Mr. Radowitz at a nursing home
after seeing the surgeons. It is all terrible. The hand is badly poisoned. They hope they may
save it, but the injuries will make it impossible for him ever to play again as he has done.
He may use it again a little, he may compose of course, but as a performer it's all over. Mr.
Sorell says he is in despair--and half mad. They will watch him very carefully at the home,
lest he should do himself any mischief. Mr. Sorell goes back to him to-morrow. He is himself
broken-hearted.

"I am very, very sorry for you--and for Lord Meyrick,--and everybody. But I can't get over
it--I can't ever forget it. There is a great deal in what you said this afternoon. I don't
deny it. But, when it's all said, I feel I could never be happy with you; I should be always
afraid of you--of your pride and your violence. And love mustn't be afraid.

"This horrible thing seems to have opened my eyes. I am of course very unhappy. But I am going
up to-morrow to see Mr. Radowitz, who has asked for me. I shall stay with my aunt, Lady Langmoor,
and nurse him as much as they will let me. Oh, and I must try and comfort him! His poor music!--it
haunts me like something murdered. I could cry--and cry.

    "Good night--and good-bye!

          "CONSTANCE BLEDLOW."

The two notes fell at Falloden's feet. He stood looking out into Beaumont Street. The long
narrow street, which only two days before had been alive with the stream of Commemoration,
was quiet and deserted. A heavy thunder rain was just beginning to plash upon the pavements;
and in the interval since he had taken the note from the maid's hand, it seemed to Falloden
that the night had fallen.

PART II

CHAPTER XI

"So, Connie, you don't want to go out with me this afternoon?" said Lady Langmoor, bustling
into the Eaton Square drawing-room, where Connie sat writing a letter at a writing-table near
the window, and occasionally raising her eyes to scan the street outside.

"I'm afraid I can't, Aunt Sophia. You remember, I told you, Mr. Sorell was coming to fetch me."

Lady Langmoor looked rather vague. She was busy putting on her white gloves, and inspecting
the fit of her grey satin dress, as she saw it in the mirror over Connie's head.

"You mean--to see the young man who was hurt? Dreadfully sad of course, and you know him well
enough to go and see him in bed? Oh, well, of course, girls do anything nowadays. It is very
kind of you."

Connie laughed, but without irritation. During the week she had been staying in the Langmoors'
house, she had resigned herself to the fact that her Aunt Langmoor--as it seemed to her--was
a very odd and hardly responsible creature, the motives of whose existence she did not even
begin to understand. But both her aunt and Lord Langmoor had been very kind to their new-found
niece. They had given a dinner-party and a tea-party in her honour; they had taken her to several
crushes a night, and introduced her to a number of their own friends. And they would have moved
Heaven and earth to procure her an invitation to the Court ball they themselves attended, on
the day after Connie's arrival, if only, as Lady Langmoor plaintively said--"Your poor mother
had done the right thing at the right time." By which she meant to express--without harshness
towards the memory of Lady Risborough--how lamentable it was that, in addition to being christened,
vaccinated and confirmed, Constance had not also been "presented" at the proper moment. However
Constance probably enjoyed the evening of the Court ball more than any other in the week, since
she went to the Italian Embassy after dinner to help her girl friend, the daughter of Italy's
new Prime Minister, Elisa Bardinelli, to dress for the function; and the two girls were so
enchanted to see each other, and had so much Roman gossip to get through, that Donna Elisa
was scandalously late, and the Ambassador almost missed the Royal Procession.

But that had been the only spot of pleasure in Connie's fortnight. Lady Langmoor was puzzled
by her pale looks and her evident lack of zest for the amusements offered her. She could only
suppose that her niece was tired out with the balls of Commem., and Connie accepted the excuse
gratefully. In reality she cared for nothing day after day but the little notes she got from
Sorell night and morning giving her news of Radowitz. Till now he had been too ill to see her.
But at last the doctor had given leave for a visit, and as soon as Lady Langmoor had gone off
on her usual afternoon round of concerts and teas, Connie moved to the window, and waited for
Sorell.

How long was it since she had first set foot in England and Oxford? Barely two months! And
to Constance it seemed as if these months had been merely an unconscious preparation for this
state of oppression and distress in which she found herself. Radowitz in his misery and pain--Falloden
on the Cherwell path, defending himself by those passionate retorts upon her of which she could
not but admit the partial justice--by these images she was perpetually haunted. Certainly she
had no reason to look back with pleasure or self-approval on her Oxford experiences. In all
her dealings with Falloden she had behaved with a reckless folly of which she was now quite
conscious; courting risks; in love with excitement rather than with the man; and careless whither
the affair might lead, so long as it gratified her own romantic curiosities as to the power
of woman over the masculine mind.

Then, suddenly, all this had become serious. She was like the playing child on whose hand the
wasp sat down. But in this case the moral sting of what had happened was abidingly sharp and
painful. The tragedy of Radowitz, together with the charm interwoven with all her few recollections
of him, had developed in Connie feelings of unbearable pity and tenderness, altogether new
to her. Yet she was constantly thinking of Falloden; building up her own harrowed vision of
his remorse, or dreaming of the Marmion ball, and the ride in the bluebell wood,--those two
meetings in which alone she had felt happiness with him, something distinct from vanity, and
a challenging love of power. Now it was all over. They would probably not meet again, till
he had forgotten her, and had married some one else. She was quite aware of his fixed and businesslike
views for himself and his career--as to marriage, travel, Parliament and the rest; and it had
often pleased her wilfulness to think of modifying or upsetting them. She had now far more
abundant proof of his haughty self-centredness than their first short acquaintance on the Riviera
had given her; and yet--though she tried to hide it from herself--she was far more deeply absorbed
in the thought of him. When all was said, she knew that she had treated him badly. The effect
of his violence and cruelty towards Radowitz had been indeed to make her shudder away from
him. It seemed to her still that it would be impossible to forgive herself should she ever
make friends with Douglas Falloden again. She would be an accomplice in his hardness of heart
and deed. Yet she recognised guiltily her own share in that hardness. She had played with and
goaded him; she had used Radowitz to punish him; her championship of the boy had become in
the end mere pique with Falloden; and she was partly responsible for what had happened. She
could not recall Falloden's face and voice on their last walk without realising that she had
hit him recklessly hard, and that her conduct to him had been one of the causes of the Marmion
tragedy.

She was haunted by these thoughts, and miserable for lack of some comforting, guiding, and--if
possible--absolving voice. She missed her mother childishly day and night, and all that premature
self-possession and knowledge of the world, born of her cosmopolitan training, which at Oxford
had made her appear so much older than other English girls of twenty, seemed to have broken
away, and left her face to face with feelings she could not check, and puzzles she wanted somebody
else to judge.

For instance--here was this coming visit to her aunts in Yorkshire. Their house in Scarfedale
was most uncomfortably near to Flood Castle. The boundaries of the Falloden estate ran close
to her aunts' village. She would run many chances of coming across Douglas himself, however
much she might try to avoid him. At the same time Lady Marcia wrote continually, describing
the plans that were being made to entertain her--eager, affectionate letters, very welcome
in spite of their oddity to the girl's sore and orphaned mood. No she really couldn't frame
some clumsy excuse, and throw her aunts over. She must go, and trust to luck.

And there would be Sorell and Otto to fall back upon--to take refuge with. Sorell had told
her that the little rectory on the moors, whither he and Otto were bound as soon as the boy
could be moved, stood somewhere about midway between her aunts' house and Flood, on the Scarfedale
side of the range of moors girdling the Flood Castle valley.

It was strange perhaps that she should be counting on Sorell's neighbourhood. If she had often
petulantly felt at Oxford that he was too good, too high above her to be of much use to her,
she might perhaps have felt it doubly now. For although in some undefined way, ever since the
night of the Vice-Chancellor's party, she had realised in him a deep interest in her, even
a sense of responsibility for her happiness, which made him more truly her guardian than poor
harassed Uncle Ewen, she knew very well that she had disappointed him, and she smarted under
it. She wanted to have it out with him, and didn't dare! As she listened indeed to his agitated
report on Radowitz's injuries, after the first verdict of the London surgeons, Connie had been
conscious of a kind of moral terror. In the ordinary man of the world, such an incident as
the Marmion ragging of a foreign lad, who had offended the prejudices of a few insolent and
lordly Englishmen, would have merely stirred a jest. In Sorell it roused the same feelings
that made him a lover of Swinburne and Shelley and the nobler Byron; a devoted reader of everything
relating to the Italian Risorgimento; and sent him down every long vacation to a London riverside
parish to give some hidden service to those who were in his eyes the victims of an unjust social
system. For him the quality of behaviour like Falloden's towards Otto Radowitz was beyond argument.
The tyrannical temper in things great or small, and quite independent of results, represented,
for him, the worst treason that man can offer to man. In this case it had ended in hideous
catastrophe to an innocent and delightful being, whom he loved. But it was not thereby any
the worse; the vileness of it was only made manifest for all to see.

This hidden passion in him, as he talked, seemed to lay a fiery hand on Constance, she trembled
under it, conscience-stricken. "Does he see the same hateful thing in me?--though he never
says a word to hurt me?--though he is so gentle and so courteous?"

       *       *       *       *       *

A tall figure became visible at the end of the street. Connie shut up her writing and ran upstairs
to put on her things. When she came down, she found Sorell waiting for her with a furrowed brow.

"How is he?" She approached him anxiously. Sorell's look changed and cleared. Had she put on
her white dress, had she made herself a vision of freshness and charm, for the poor boy's sake?
He thought so; and his black eyes kindled.

"Better in some ways. He is hanging on your coming. But these are awfully bad times for the
nurses--for all of us."

"I may take him some roses?" she said humbly, pointing to a basket she had brought in with her.

Sorell smiled assent and took it from her. As they were speeding in a hansom towards the Portland
Place region, he gave her an account of the doctors' latest opinion. It seemed that quite apart
from the blood-poisoning, which would heal, the muscles and nerves of the hand were fatally
injured. All hope of even a partial use of it was gone.

"Luckily he is not a poor man. He has some hundreds a year. But he had a great scheme, after
he had got his Oxford degree, of going to the new Leschetizsky school in Vienna for two years,
and then of giving concerts in Warsaw and Cracow, in aid of the great Polish museum now being
formed at Cracow. You know what a wild enthusiasm he has for Polish history and antiquities.
He believes his country will rise again, and it was his passion--his most cherished hope--to
give his life and his gift to her. Poor lad!"

The tears stood in Connie's eyes.

"But he can still compose?" she urged piteously.

Sorell shrugged his shoulders.

"Yes, if he has the heart--and the health. I never took much account before of his delicacy.
One can see, to look at him, that he's not robust. But somehow he was always so full of life
that one never thought of illness in connection with him. But I had a long talk with one of
the doctors last week, who takes rather a gloomy view. A shock like this sometimes lets loose
all the germs of mischief in a man's constitution. And his mother was undoubtedly consumptive.
Well, we must do our best."

He sighed. There was silence till they turned into Wimpole Street and were in sight of the
nursing home. Then Connie said in a queer, strained voice: "You don't know that it was partly
I who did it."

Sorell turned upon her with a sudden change of expression. It was as though she had said something
he had long expected, and now that it was said a great barrier between them had broken down.
He looked at her with shining eyes from which the veil of reserve had momentarily lifted. She
saw in them both tenderness and sorrow.

"I don't think you need feel that," he said gently. Her lips trembled. She looked straight
before her into the hot vista of the street.

"I just played with him--with his whole future, as it's turned out--without a thought."

Sorell knew that she was thinking of the Magdalen ball, of which he had by now heard several
accounts. He guessed she meant that her provocation of Falloden had contributed to the tragedy,
and that the thought tormented her. But neither of them mentioned Falloden's name. Sorell put
out his hand and grasped hers. "Otto's only thought about you is that you gave him the happiest
evening he ever spent in England," he said with energy. "You won't misunderstand."

Her eyes filled with tears. But there was no time to say more. The hansom drew up.

They found Radowitz lying partly dressed on the balcony of his back room, which overlooked
a tiny walled patch of grass and two plane-trees. The plane-tree seems to have been left in
pity to London by some departing rural deity. It alone nourishes amid the wilderness of brick;
and one can imagine it as feeling a positive satisfaction, a quiet triumph, in the absence
of its stronger rivals, oak and beech and ash, like some gentle human life escaped from the
tyrannies of competition. These two great trees were the guardian genii of poor Otto's afternoons.
They brought him shade and coolness, even in the hottest hours of a burning June.

Connie sat down beside him, and they looked at each other in silence. Sorell, after a few gay
words, had left them together. Radowitz held her hand in his own left. The other was bandaged
and supported on a pillow. "When she got used to the golden light filtering through the plane
leaves, she saw that he was pale and shrunken, that his eyes were more living and blue than
ever, and his hair more like the burnished halo of some Florentine or Siennese saint. Yet the
whole aspect was of something stricken. She felt a foreboding, a terror, of which she knew
she must let nothing appear.

"Do you mind my staring?" he said presently, with his half-sad, half-mischievous smile. "You
are so nice to look at."

She tried to laugh.

"I put on my best frock. Do you like it?"

"For me?" he said, wondering. "And you brought me these roses?"

He lifted some out of the basket, looked at them, then let them drop listlessly on his knee.
"I am afraid I don't care for such things, as I used to do. Before--this happened, I had a
language of my own, in which I could express everything--as artists or poets can. Now--I am
struck dumb. There is something crying in me--that can find no voice. And when one can't express,
one begins not to feel!"

She had to check the recurring tears before she could reply.

"But you can still compose?"

Her tone, in repeating the same words she had used to Sorell, fell into the same pleading note.

He shook his head, almost with irritation.

"It was out of the instrument--out of improvisation--that all my composing grew. Do you remember
the tale they tell of George Sand, how when she began a novel, she made a few dots and scratches
on a sheet of paper, and as she played with them they ran into words, and then into sentences--that
suggested ideas--and so, in half an hour, she had sketched a plot, and was ready to go to work?
So it was with me. As I played, the ideas came. I am not one of your scientific musicians who
can build up everything in vacuo. I must translate everything into sound--through my fingers.
It was the same with Chopin." He pointed to a life of Chopin that was lying open on the couch
beside him.

"But you will do wonders with your left hand. And your right will perhaps improve. The doctors
mayn't know," she pleaded, catching at straws. "Dear Otto--don't despair!"

He flushed and smiled. His uninjured hand slipped back into hers again.

"I like you to call me Otto. How dear that was of you! May I call you Constance?"

She nodded. There was a sob in her throat that would not let her speak.

"I don't despair--now," he said, after a moment. "I did at first. I wanted to put an end to
myself. But, of course, it was Sorell who saved me. If my mother had lived, she could not have
done more."

He turned away his face so that Constance should not see it. When he looked at her again, he
was quite calm and smiling.

"Do you know who come to see me almost every day?"

"Tell me."

"Meyrick--Lord Meyrick, and Robertson. Perhaps you don't know him. He's a Winchester man, a
splendid cricketer. It was Robertson I was struggling with when I fell. How could he know I
should hurt myself? It wasn't his fault and he gave up his 'choice' for the Oxford Eleven.
They put him in at the last moment. But he wouldn't play. I didn't know till afterwards. I
told him he was a great fool."

There was a pause. Then Connie said--with difficulty--"Did--did Mr. Falloden write? Has he
said anything?"

"Oh yes, he sent a message. After all, when you run over a dog, you send a message, don't you?"
said the lad with sudden bitterness. "And I believe he wrote a letter--after I came here. But
I didn't open it. I gave it to Sorell."

Then he raised himself on his pillows and looked keenly at Connie.

"You see the others didn't mean any harm. They were drunk, and it was a row. But Falloden wasn't
drunk--and he did mean--"

"Oh, not to hurt you so?" cried Connie involuntarily.

"No--but to humble and trample on me," said the youth with vehemence, his pale cheeks flaming.
"He knew quite well what he was about. I felt that when they came into my room. He is cruel--he
has the temper of the torturer--in cold blood--"

A shudder of rage went through him. His excitable Slav nature brought everything back to him--as
ugly and as real as when it happened.

"Oh, no--no!" said Constance, putting her hand over her eyes.

Radowitz controlled himself at once.

"I won't say any more," he said in a low voice, breathing deep--"I won't say any more." But
a minute afterwards he looked up again, his brow contracting--"Only, for God's sake, don't
marry him!"

"Don't be afraid," said Constance. "I shall never marry him!"

He looked at her piteously. "Only--if you care for him--what then? You are not to be unhappy!--you
are to be the happiest person in the world. If you did care for him--I should have to see some
good in him--and that would be awful. It is not because he did me an injury, you understand.
The other two are my friends--they will be always my friends. But there is something in Falloden's
soul that I hate--that I would like to fight--till either he drops or I. It is the same sort
of feeling I have towards those who have killed my country."

He lay frowning, his blue eyes sombrely fixed and strained.

"But now"--he drew himself sharply together--"you must talk of something else, and I will be
quite quiet. Tell me where you have been--what you have seen--the theatre--the opera--everything!"

She did her best, seeing already the anxious face of the nurse in the window behind. And as
she got up to go, she said, "I shall come again very soon. And when you go to Yorkshire, I
shall see you perhaps every day."

He looked up in astonishment and delight, and she explained that at Scarfedale Manor, her aunts'
old house, she would be only two or three miles from the high moorland vicarage whither he
was soon to be moved.

"That will do more for me than doctors!" said Radowitz with decision. Yet almost before she
had reached the window opening on the balcony, his pain, mental and physical, had clutched
him again. He did not look up as she waved farewell; and Sorell hurried her away.

Thenceforward she saw him almost every day, to Lady Langmoor's astonishment. Sorell too, and
his relation to Connie, puzzled her greatly. Connie assured her with smiles that she was not
in love with the handsome young don, and never thought of flirting with him. "He was mother's
friend, Aunt Sophia," she would say, as though that settled the matter entirely. But Lady Langmoor
could not see that it settled it at all. Mr. Sorell could not be much over thirty--the best
time of all for falling in love. And here was Connie going to pictures with him, and the British
Museum, and to visit the poor fellow in the nursing home. It was true that the aunt could never
detect the smallest sign of love-making between them. And Connie was always putting forward
that Mr. Sorell taught her Greek. As if that kind of thing wasn't one of the best and oldest
gambits in the great game of matrimony! Lady Langmoor would have felt it her solemn duty to
snub the young man had it been at all possible. But it was really not possible to snub any
one possessed of such a courteous self-forgetting dignity. And he came of a good Anglo-Irish
family too. Lady Langmoor had soon discovered that she knew some of his relations, and placed
him socially to a T. But, of course, any notion of his marrying Connie, with her money, her
rank, and her good looks, would be simply ridiculous, so ridiculous that Lady Langmoor soon
ceased to think about it, accepted his visits, and began to like him on her own account.

       *       *       *       *       *

One evening towards the end of the first week in July, a hansom drew up before a house in Portman
Square. Douglas Falloden emerged from it, as the door was opened by a maidservant.

The house, which had been occupied at the beginning of the season by the family, was given
over now to a charwoman and a couple of housemaids, the senior of whom looked a little scared
at the prospect of having to wait on the magnificent gentleman who had just entered the house.
In general, when Mr. Douglas came up to town in the absence of his family, he put up at his
own very expensive club, and the servants in Portman Square were not troubled with him. But
they, like every one else, knew that something was going wrong with the Fallodens.

Falloden walked into the deserted and dust-sheeted house, while the cabman brought in his portmanteau.
"Is Mr. Gregory here?" he enquired of the maid.

"Yes, sir, he is in the library. Please, sir, Mrs. O'Connor wants to know if you'll want dinner."

Falloden impatiently said "No," and walked on down a long passage to the library, which had
been built out at the back of the house. Here the blinds had been drawn up, only to reveal
the dusty desolation of an unused room, in which a few chairs had been uncovered, and a table
cleared. A man rose from a chair beside the table, and he and Falloden shook hands. He was
a round-faced and broad-shouldered person, with one of the unreadable faces developed by the
life of a prominent solicitor, in contact with all sorts of clients and many varieties of business;
and Falloden's sensitive pride had soon detected in his manner certain shades of expression
to which the heir of Flood Castle was not accustomed.

"I am sorry to hear Sir Arthur is not well." Mr. Gregory spoke politely, but perhaps without
that accent of grave and even tragic concern which six months earlier he would have given to
the same words. "There is a great deal of heavy, and, I am afraid, disagreeable business to
be done."

"My father is not fit for it," said Falloden abruptly. "I must do the best I can."

