In order to understand this red word of my text, we only have to exercise as much common sense
in religion as we do in everything else. Pang for pang, hunger for hunger, fatigue for fatigue,
tear for tear, blood for blood, life for life, we see every day illustrated. The act of substitution
is no novelty, although I hear men talk as though the idea of Christ's suffering substituted
for our suffering were something abnormal, something distressingly odd, something wildly eccentric,
a solitary episode in the world's history; when I could take you out into this city, and before
sundown point you to five hundred cases of substitution and voluntary suffering of one in behalf
of another.

At two o'clock to-morrow afternoon go among the places of business or toil. It will be no difficult
thing for you to find men who, by their looks, show you that they are overworked. They are
prematurely old. They are hastening rapidly toward their decease. They have gone through crises
in business that shattered their nervous system, and pulled on the brain. They have a shortness
of breath, and a pain in the back of the head, and at night an insomnia that alarms them. Why
are they drudging at business early and late? For fun? No; it would be difficult to extract
any amusement out of that exhaustion. Because they are avaricious? In many cases no. Because
their own personal expenses are lavish? No; a few hundred dollars would meet all their wants.
The simple fact is, the man is enduring all that fatigue and exasperation, and wear and tear,
to keep his home prosperous. There is an invisible line reaching from that store, from that
bank, from that shop, from that scaffolding, to a quiet scene a few blocks, a few miles away,
and there is the secret of that business endurance. He is simply the champion of a homestead,
for which he wins bread, and wardrobe, and education, and prosperity, and in such battle ten
thousand men fall. Of ten business men whom I bury, nine die of overwork for others. Some sudden
disease finds them with no power of resistance, and they are gone. Life for life. Blood for
blood. Substitution!

At one o'clock to-morrow morning, the hour when slumber is most uninterrupted and most profound,
walk amid the dwelling-houses of the city. Here and there you will find a dim light, because
it is the household custom to keep a subdued light burning: but most of the houses from base
to top are as dark as though uninhabited. A merciful God has sent forth the archangel of sleep,
and he puts his wings over the city. But yonder is a clear light burning, and outside on the
window casement a glass or pitcher containing food for a sick child; the food is set in the
fresh air. This is the sixth night that mother has sat up with that sufferer. She has to the
last point obeyed the physician's prescription, not giving a drop too much or too little, or
a moment too soon or too late. She is very anxious, for she has buried three children with
the same disease, and she prays and weeps, each prayer and sob ending with a kiss of the pale
cheek. By dint of kindness she gets the little one through the ordeal. After it is all over,
the mother is taken down. Brain or nervous fever sets in, and one day she leaves the convalescent
child with a mother's blessing, and goes up to join the three in the kingdom of heaven. Life
for life. Substitution! The fact is that there are an uncounted number of mothers who, after
they have navigated a large family of children through all the diseases of infancy, and got
them fairly started up the flowering slope of boyhood and girlhood, have only strength enough
left to die. They fade away. Some call it consumption; some call it nervous prostration; some
call it intermittent or malarial disposition; but I call it martyrdom of the domestic circle.
Life for life. Blood for blood. Substitution!

Or perhaps the mother lingers long enough to see a son get on the wrong road, and his former
kindness becomes rough reply when she expresses anxiety about him. But she goes right on, looking
carefully after his apparel, remembering his every birthday with some memento, and when he
is brought home worn out with dissipation, nurses him till he gets well and starts him again,
and hopes, and expects, and prays, and counsels, and suffers, until her strength gives out
and she fails. She is going, and attendants, bending over her pillow, ask her if she has any
message to leave, and she makes great effort to say something, but out of three or four minutes
of indistinct utterance they can catch but three words: "My poor boy!" The simple fact is she
died for him. Life for life. Substitution!

About twenty-four years ago there went forth from our homes hundreds of thousands of men to
do battle for their country. All the poetry of war soon vanished, and left them nothing but
the terrible prose. They waded knee-deep in mud. They slept in snow-banks. They marched till
their cut feet tracked the earth. They were swindled out of their honest rations, and lived
on meat not fit for a dog. They had jaws all fractured, and eyes extinguished, and limbs shot
away. Thousands of them cried for water as they lay dying on the field the night after the
battle, and got it not. They were homesick, and received no message from their loved ones.
They died in barns, in bushes, in ditches, the buzzards of the summer heat the only attendants
on their obsequies. No one but the infinite God who knows everything, knows the ten thousandth
part of the length, and breadth, and depth, and height of anguish of the Northern and Southern
battlefields. Why did these fathers leave their children and go to the front, and why did these
young men, postponing the marriage-day, start out into the probabilities of never coming back?
For the country they died. Life for life. Blood for blood. Substitution!

But we need not go so far. What is that monument in Greenwood? It is to the doctors who fell
in the Southern epidemics. Why go? Were there not enough sick to be attended in these Northern
latitudes? Oh, yes; but the doctor puts a few medical books in his valise, and some vials of
medicine, and leaves his patients here in the hands of other physicians, and takes the rail-train.
Before he gets to the infected regions he passes crowded rail-trains, regular and extra, taking
the flying and affrighted populations. He arrives in a city over which a great horror is brooding.
He goes from couch to couch, feeling of pulse and studying symptoms, and prescribing day after
day, night after night, until a fellow-physician says: "Doctor, you had better go home and
rest; you look miserable." But he can not rest while so many are suffering. On and on, until
some morning finds him in a delirium, in which he talks of home, and then rises and says he
must go and look after those patients. He is told to lie down; but he fights his attendants
until he falls back, and is weaker and weaker, and dies for people with whom he had no kinship,
and far away from his own family, and is hastily put away in a stranger's tomb, and only the
fifth part of a newspaper line tells us of his sacrifice--his name just mentioned among five.
Yet he has touched the furthest height of sublimity in that three weeks of humanitarian service.
He goes straight as an arrow to the bosom of Him who said: "I was sick and ye visited Me."
Life for life. Blood for blood. Substitution!

In the legal profession I see the same principle of self-sacrifice. In 1846, William Freeman,
a pauperized and idiotic negro, was at Auburn, N.Y., on trial for murder. He had slain the
entire Van Nest family. The foaming wrath of the community could be kept off him only by armed
constables. Who would volunteer to be his counsel? No attorney wanted to sacrifice his popularity
by such an ungrateful task. All were silent save one, a young lawyer with feeble voice, that
could hardly be heard outside the bar, pale and thin and awkward. It was William H. Seward,
who saw that the prisoner was idiotic and irresponsible, and ought to be put in an asylum rather
than put to death, the heroic counsel uttering these beautiful words:

"I speak now in the hearing of a people who have prejudged prisoner and condemned me for pleading
in his behalf. He is a convict, a pauper, a negro, without intellect, sense, or emotion. My
child with an affectionate smile disarms my care-worn face of its frown whenever I cross my
threshold. The beggar in the street obliges me to give because he says, 'God bless you!' as
I pass. My dog caresses me with fondness if I will but smile on him. My horse recognizes me
when I fill his manger. What reward, what gratitude, what sympathy and affection can I expect
here? There the prisoner sits. Look at him. Look at the assemblage around you. Listen to their
ill-suppressed censures and their excited fears, and tell me where among my neighbors or my
fellow-men, where, even in his heart, I can expect to find a sentiment, a thought, not to say
of reward or of acknowledgment, or even of recognition? Gentlemen, you may think of this evidence
what you please, bring in what verdict you can, but I asseverate before Heaven and you, that,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, the prisoner at the bar does not at this moment know
why it is that my shadow falls on you instead of his own."

The gallows got its victim, but the post-mortem examination of the poor creature showed to
all the surgeons and to all the world that the public were wrong, and William H. Seward was
right, and that hard, stony step of obloquy in the Auburn court-room was the first step of
the stairs of fame up which he went to the top, or to within one step of the top, that last
denied him through the treachery of American politics. Nothing sublimer was ever seen in an
American court-room than William H. Seward, without reward, standing between the fury of the
populace and the loathsome imbecile. Substitution!

In the realm of the fine arts there was as remarkable an instance. A brilliant but hypercriticised
painter, Joseph William Turner, was met by a volley of abuse from all the art galleries of
Europe. His paintings, which have since won the applause of all civilized nations, "The Fifth
Plague of Egypt," "Fishermen on a Lee Shore in Squally Weather," "Calais Pier," "The Sun Rising
Through Mist," and "Dido Building Carthage," were then targets for critics to shoot at. In
defense of this outrageously abused man, a young author of twenty-four years, just one year
out of college, came forth with his pen, and wrote the ablest and most famous essays on art
that the world ever saw, or ever will see--John Ruskin's "Modern Painters." For seventeen years
this author fought the battles of the maltreated artist, and after, in poverty and broken-heartedness,
the painter had died, and the public tried to undo their cruelties toward him by giving him
a big funeral and burial at St. Paul's Cathedral, his old-time friend took out of a tin box
nineteen thousand pieces of paper containing drawings by the old painter, and through many
weary and uncompensated months assorted and arranged them for public observation. People say
John Ruskin in his old days is cross, misanthropic, and morbid. Whatever he may do that he
ought not to do, and whatever he may say that he ought not to say between now and his death,
he will leave this world insolvent as far as it has any capacity to pay this author's pen for
its chivalric and Christian defense of a poor painter's pencil. John Ruskin for William Turner.
Blood for blood. Substitution!

What an exalting principle this which leads one to suffer for another! Nothing so kindles enthusiasm
or awakens eloquence, or chimes poetic canto, or moves nations. The principle is the dominant
one in our religion--Christ the Martyr, Christ the celestial Hero, Christ the Defender, Christ
the Substitute. No new principle, for it was as old as human nature; but now on a grander,
wider, higher, deeper, and more world-resounding scale! The shepherd boy as a champion for
Israel with a sling toppled the giant of Philistine braggadocio in the dust; but here is another
David who, for all the armies of churches militant and triumphant, hurls the Goliath of perdition
into defeat, the crash of his brazen armor like an explosion at Hell Gate. Abraham had at God's
command agreed to sacrifice his son Isaac, and the same God just in time had provided a ram
of the thicket as a substitute; but here is another Isaac bound to the altar, and no hand arrests
the sharp edges of laceration and death, and the universe shivers and quakes and recoils and
groans at the horror.

All good men have for centuries been trying to tell whom this Substitute was like, and every
comparison, inspired and uninspired, evangelistic, prophetic, apostolic, and human, falls short,
for Christ was the Great Unlike. Adam a type of Christ, because he came directly from God;
Noah a type of Christ, because he delivered his own family from deluge; Melchisedec a type
of Christ, because he had no predecessor or successor; Joseph a type of Christ, because he
was cast out by his brethren; Moses a type of Christ, because he was a deliverer from bondage;
Joshua a type of Christ, because he was a conqueror; Samson a type of Christ, because of his
strength to slay the lions and carry off the iron gates of impossibility; Solomon a type of
Christ, in the affluence of his dominion; Jonah a type of Christ, because of the stormy sea
in which he threw himself for the rescue of others; but put together Adam and Noah and Melchisedec
and Joseph and Moses and Joshua and Samson and Solomon and Jonah, and they would not make a
fragment of a Christ, a quarter of a Christ, the half of a Christ, or the millionth part of
a Christ.

He forsook a throne and sat down on His own footstool. He came from the top of glory to the
bottom of humiliation, and changed a circumference seraphic for a circumference diabolic. Once
waited on by angels, now hissed at by brigands. From afar and high up He came down; past meteors
swifter than they; by starry thrones, Himself more lustrous; past larger worlds to smaller
worlds; down stairs of firmaments, and from cloud to cloud, and through tree-tops and into
the earners stall, to thrust His shoulder under our burdens and take the lances of pain through
His vitals, and wrapped himself in all the agonies which we deserve for our misdoings, and
stood on the splitting decks of a foundering vessel, amid the drenching surf of the sea, and
passed midnights on the mountains amid wild beasts of prey, and stood at the point where all
earthly and infernal hostilities charged on Him at once with their keen sabers--our Substitute!

When did attorney ever endure so much for a pauper client, or physician for the patient in
the lazaretto, or mother for the child in membranous croup, as Christ for us, and Christ for
you, and Christ for me? Shall any man or woman or child in this audience who has ever suffered
for another find it hard to understand this Christly suffering for us? Shall those whose sympathies
have been wrung in behalf of the unfortunate have no appreciation of that one moment which
was lifted out of all the ages of eternity as most conspicuous, when Christ gathered up all
the sins of those to be redeemed under His one arm, and all their sorrows under His other arm,
and said: "I will atone for these under my right arm, and will heal all those under my left
arm. Strike me with all thy glittering shafts, O Eternal Justice! Roll over me with all thy
surges, ye oceans of sorrow"? And the thunderbolts struck Him from above, and the seas of trouble
rolled up from beneath, hurricane after hurricane, and cyclone after cyclone, and then and
there in presence of heaven and earth and hell, yea, all worlds witnessing, the price, the
bitter price, the transcendent price, the awful price, the glorious price, the infinite price,
the eternal price, was paid that sets us free.

That is what Paul means, that is what I mean, that is what all those who have ever had their
heart changed mean by "blood." I glory in this religion of blood! I am thrilled as I see the
suggestive color in sacramental cup, whether it be of burnished silver set on cloth immaculately
white, or rough-hewn from wood set on table in log-hut meeting-house of the wilderness. Now
I am thrilled as I see the altars of ancient sacrifice crimson with the blood of the slain
lamb, and Leviticus is to me not so much the Old Testament as the New. Now I see why the destroying
angel passing over Egypt in the night spared all those houses that had blood sprinkled on their
door-posts. Now I know what Isaiah means when he speaks of "one in red apparel coming with
dyed garments from Bozrah;" and whom the Apocalypse means when it describes a heavenly chieftain
whose "vesture was dipped in blood;" and what Peter, the apostle, means when he speaks of the
"precious blood that cleanseth from all sin;" and what the old, worn-out, decrepit missionary
Paul means when, in my text, he cries, "Without shedding of blood is no remission." By that
blood you and I will be saved--or never saved at all. In all the ages of the world God has
not once pardoned a single sin except through the Saviour's expiation, and He never will. Glory
be to God that the hill back of Jerusalem was the battle-field on which Christ achieved our
liberty!

The most exciting and overpowering day of last summer was the day I spent on the battle-field
of Waterloo. Starting out with the morning train from Brussels, Belgium, we arrived in about
an hour on that famous spot. A son of one who was in the battle, and who had heard from his
father a thousand times the whole scene recited, accompanied us over the field. There stood
the old Hougomont Château, the walls dented, and scratched, and broken, and shattered by grape-shot
and cannon-ball. There is the well in which three hundred dying and dead were pitched. There
is the chapel with the head of the infant Christ shot off. There are the gates at which, for
many hours, English and French armies wrestled. Yonder were the one hundred and sixty guns
of the English, and the two hundred and fifty guns of the French. Yonder the Hanoverian Hussars
fled for the woods. Yonder was the ravine of Ohain, where the French cavalry, not knowing there
was a hollow in the ground, rolled over and down, troop after troop, tumbling into one awful
mass of suffering, hoof of kicking horses against brow and breast of captains and colonels
and private soldiers, the human and the beastly groan kept up until, the day after, all was
shoveled under because of the malodor arising in that hot month of June.

"There," said our guide, "the Highland regiments lay down on their faces waiting for the moment
to spring upon the foe. In that orchard twenty-five hundred men were cut to pieces. Here stood
Wellington with white lips, and up that knoll rode Marshal Ney on his sixth horse, five having
been shot under him. Here the ranks of the French broke, and Marshal Ney, with his boot slashed
of a sword, and his hat off, and his face covered with powder and blood, tried to rally his
troops as he cried: 'Come and see how a marshal of French dies on the battle-field.' From yonder
direction Grouchy was expected for the French re-enforcement, but he came not. Around those
woods Blucher was looked for to re-enforce the English, and just in time he came up. Yonder
is the field where Napoleon stood, his arm through the reins of the horse's bridle, dazed and
insane, trying to go back." Scene of a battle that went on from twenty-five minutes to twelve
o'clock, on the eighteenth of June, until four o'clock, when the English seemed defeated, and
their commander cried out; "Boys, can you think of giving way? Remember old England!" and the
tides turned, and at eight o'clock in the evening the man of destiny, who was called by his
troops Old Two Hundred Thousand, turned away with broken heart, and the fate of centuries was
decided.

No wonder a great mound has been reared there, hundreds of feet high--a mound at the expense
of millions of dollars and many years in rising, and on the top is the great Belgian lion of
bronze, and a grand old lion it is. But our great Waterloo was in Palestine. There came a day
when all hell rode up, led by Apollyon, and the Captain of our salvation confronted them alone.
The Rider on the white horse of the Apocalypse going out against the black horse cavalry of
death, and the battalions of the demoniac, and the myrmidons of darkness. From twelve o'clock
at noon to three o'clock in the afternoon the greatest battle of the universe went on. Eternal
destinies were being decided. All the arrows of hell pierced our Chieftain, and the battle-axes
struck Him, until brow and cheek and shoulder and hand and foot were incarnadined with oozing
life; but He fought on until He gave a final stroke with sword from Jehovah's buckler, and
the commander-in-chief of hell and all his forces fell back in everlasting ruin, and the victory
is ours. And on the mound that celebrates the triumph we plant this day two figures, not in
bronze or iron or sculptured marble, but two figures of living light, the Lion of Judah's tribe
and the Lamb that was slain.

POSTHUMOUS OPPORTUNITY.

    "If the tree fall toward the south or toward the north, in the
    place where the tree falleth there it shall be."--ECCLES. xi: 3.

There is a hovering hope in the minds of a vast multitude that there will be an opportunity
in the next world to correct the mistakes of this; that, if we do make complete shipwreck of
our earthly life, it will be on a shore up which we may walk to a palace; that, as a defendant
may lose his case in the Circuit Court, and carry it up to the Supreme Court or Court of Chancery
and get a reversal of judgment in his behalf, all the costs being thrown over on the other
party, so, if we fail in the earthly trial, we may in the higher jurisdiction of eternity have
the judgment of the lower court set aside, all the costs remitted, and we may be victorious
defendants forever.

My object in this sermon is to show that common sense, as well as my text, declares that such
an expectation is chimerical. You say that the impenitent man, having got into the next world
and seeing the disaster, will, as a result of that disaster, turn, the pain the cause of his
reformation. But you can find ten thousand instances in this world of men who have done wrong
and distress overtook them suddenly. Did the distress heal them? No; they went right on.

That man was flung of dissipations. "You must stop drinking," said the doctor, "and quit the
fast life you are leading, or it will destroy you.". The patient suffers paroxysm after paroxysm;
but, under skillful medical treatment, he begins to sit up, begins to walk about the room,
begins to go to business. And, lo! he goes back to the same grog-shops for his morning dram,
and his even dram, and the drams between. Flat down again! Same doctor. Same physical anguish.
Same medical warning.

Now, the illness is more protracted; the liver is more stubborn, the stomach more irritable,
and the digestive organs are more rebellious. But after awhile he is out again, goes back to
the same dram-shops, and goes the same round of sacrilege against his physical health.

He sees that his downward course is ruining his household, that his life is a perpetual perjury
against his marriage vow, that that broken-hearted woman is so unlike the roseate young wife
that he married, that her old schoolmates do not recognize her; that his sons are to be taunted
for a life-time by the father's drunkenness, that the daughters are to pass into life under
the scarification of a disreputable ancestor. He is drinking up their happiness, their prospects
for this life, and, perhaps, for the life to come. Sometimes an appreciation of what he is
doing comes upon him. His nervous system is all a tangle. From crown of head to sole of foot
he is one aching, rasping, crucifying, damning torture. Where is he? In hell on earth. Does
it reform him?

After awhile he has delirium tremens, with a whole jungle of hissing reptiles let out on his
pillow, and his screams horrify the neighbors as he dashes out of his bed, crying: "Take these
things off me!" As he sits, pale and convalescent, the doctor says: "Now I want to have a plain
talk with you, my dear fellow. The next attack of this kind you will have you will be beyond
all medical skill, and you will die." He gets better and goes forth into the same round again.
This time medicine takes no effect. Consultation of physicians agree in saying there is no
hope. Death ends the scene.

That process of inebriation, warning, and dissolution is going on within stone's throw of this
church, going on in all the neighborhoods of Christendom. Pain does not correct. Suffering
does not reform. What is true in one sense is true in all senses, and will forever be so, and
yet men are expecting in the next world purgatorial rejuvenation. Take up the printed reports
of the prisons of the United States, and you will find that the vast majority of the incarcerated
have been there before, some of them four, five, six times. With a million illustrations all
working the other way in this world, people are expecting that distress in the next state will
be salvatory. You can not imagine any worse torture in any other world than that which some
men have suffered here, and without any salutary consequence.

Furthermore, the prospect of a reformation in the next world is more improbable than a reformation
here. In this world the life started with innocence of infancy. In the case supposed the other
life will open with all the accumulated bad habits of many years upon him. Surely, it is easier
to build a strong ship out of new timber than out of an old hulk that has been ground up in
the breakers. If with innocence to start with in this life a man does not become godly, what
prospect is there that in the next world, starting with sin, there would be a seraph evoluted?
Surely the sculptor has more prospect of making a fine statue out of a block of pure white
Parian marble than out of an old black rock seamed and cracked with the storms of a half century.
Surely upon a clean, white sheet of paper it is easier to write a deed or a will than upon
a sheet of paper all scribbled and blotted and torn from top to bottom. Yet men seem to think
that, though the life that began here comparatively perfect turned out badly, the next life
will succeed, though it starts with a dead failure.

"But," says some one, "I think we ought to have a chance in the next life, because this life
is so short it allows only small opportunity. We hardly have time to turn around between cradle
and tomb, the wood of the one almost touching the marble of the other." But do you know what
made the ancient deluge a necessity? It was the longevity of the antediluvians. They were worse
in the second century of their life-time than in the first hundred years, and still worse in
the third century, and still worse all the way on to seven, eight, and nine hundred years,
and the earth had to be washed, and scrubbed, and soaked, and anchored, clear out of sight
for more than a month before it could be made fit for decent people to live in. Longevity never
cures impenitency. All the pictures of Time represent him with a scythe to cut, but I never
saw any picture of Time with a case of medicines to heal. Seneca says that Nero for the first
five years of his public life was set up for an example of clemency and kindness, but his path
all the way descended until at sixty-eight he became a suicide. If eight hundred years did
not make antediluvians any better, but only made them worse, the ages of eternity could have
no effect except prolongation of depravity.

"But," says some one, "in the future state evil surroundings will be withdrawn and elevated
influences substituted, and hence expurgation, and sublimation, and glorification." But the
righteous, all their sins forgiven, have passed on into a beatific state, and consequently
the unsaved will be left alone. It can not be expected that Doctor Duff, who exhausted himself
in teaching Hindoos the way to heaven, and Doctor Abeel, who gave his life in the evangelization
of China, and Adoniram Judson, who toiled for the redemption of Borneo, should be sent down
by some celestial missionary society to educate those who wasted all their earthly existence.
Evangelistic and missionary efforts are ended. The entire kingdom of the morally bankrupt by
themselves, where are the salvatory influences to come from? Can one speckled and bad apple
in a barrel of diseased apples turn the other apples good? Can those who are themselves down
help others up? Can those who have themselves failed in the business of the soul pay the debts
of their spiritual insolvents? Can a million wrongs make one right?

Poneropolis was a city where King Philip of Thracia put all the bad people of his kingdom.
If any man had opened a primary school at Poneropolis I do not think the parents from other
cities would have sent their children there. Instead of amendment in the other world, all the
associations, now that the good are evolved, will be degenerating and down. You would not want
to send a man to a cholera or yellow fever hospital for his health; and the great lazaretto
of the next world, containing the diseased and plague-struck, will be a poor place for moral
recovery. If the surroundings in this world were crowded of temptation, the surroundings of
the next world, after the righteous have passed up and on, will be a thousand per cent. more
crowded of temptation.

The Count of Chateaubriand made his little son sleep at night at the top of a castle turret,
where the winds howled and where specters were said to haunt the place; and while the mother
and sisters almost died with fright, the son tells us that the process gave him nerves that
could not tremble and a courage that never faltered. But I don't think that towers of darkness
and the spectral world swept by Sirocco and Euroclydon will ever fit one for the land of eternal
sunshine. I wonder what is the curriculum of that college of Inferno, where, after proper preparation
by the sins of this life, the candidate enters, passing on from freshman class of depravity
to sophomore of abandonment, and from sophomore to junior, and from junior to senior, and day
of graduation comes, and with diploma signed by Satan, the president, and other professorial
demoniacs, attesting that the candidate has been long enough under their drill, he passes up
to enter heaven! Pandemonium a preparative course for heavenly admission! Ah, my friends, Satan
and his cohorts have fitted uncounted multitudes for ruin, but never fitted one soul for happiness.

Furthermore, it would not be safe for this world if men had another chance in the next. If
it had been announced that, however wickedly a man might act in this world, he could fix it
up all right in the next, society would be terribly demoralized, and the human race demolished
in a few years. The fear that, if we are bad and unforgiven here, it will not be well for us
in the next existence, is the chief influence that keeps civilization from rushing back to
semi-barbarism, and semi-barbarism from rushing into midnight savagery, and midnight savagery
from extinction; for it is the astringent impression of all nations, Christian and heathen,
that there is no future chance for those who have wasted this.

Multitudes of men who are kept within bounds would say, "Go to, now! Let me get all out of
this life there is in it. Come, gluttony, and inebriation, and uncleanness, and revenge, and
all sensualities, and wait upon me! My life may be somewhat shortened in this world by dissoluteness,
but that will only make heavenly indulgence on a larger scale the sooner possible. I will overtake
the saints at last, and will enter the Heavenly Temple only a little later than those who behaved
themselves here. I will on my way to heaven take a little wider excursion than those who were
on earth pious, and I shall go to heaven via Gehenna and via Sheol." Another chance in the
next world means free license and wild abandonment in this.

Suppose you were a party in an important case at law, and you knew from consultation with judges
and attorneys that it would be tried twice, and the first trial would be of little importance,
but that the second would decide everything; for which trial would you make the most preparation,
for which retain the ablest attorneys, for which be most anxious about the attendance of witnesses?
You would put all the stress upon the second trial, all the anxiety, all the expenditure, saying,
"The first is nothing, the last is everything." Give the race assurance of a second and more
important trial in the subsequent life, and all the preparation for eternity would be post-mortem,
post-funeral, post-sepulchral, and the world with one jerk be pitched off into impiety and
godlessness.

Furthermore, let me ask why a chance should be given in the next world if we have refused innumerable
chances in this? Suppose you give a banquet, and you invite a vast number of friends, but one
man declines to come, or treats your invitation with indifference. You in the course of twenty
years give twenty banquets, and the same man is invited to them all, and treats them all in
the same obnoxious way. After awhile you remove to another house, larger and better, and you
again invite your friends, but send no invitation to the man who declined or neglected the
other invitations. Are you to blame? Has he a right to expect to be invited after all the indignities
he has done you? God in this world has invited us all to the banquet of His grace. He invited
us by His Providence and His Spirit three hundred and sixty-five days of every year since we
knew our right hand from our left. If we declined it every time, or treated the invitation
with indifference, and gave twenty or forty or fifty years of indignity on our part toward
the Banqueter, and at last He spreads the banquet in a more luxurious and kingly place, amid
the heavenly gardens, have we a right to expect Him to invite us again, and have we a right
to blame Him if He does not invite us?

If twelve gates of salvation stood open twenty years or fifty years for our admission, and
at the end of that time they are closed, can we complain of it and say, "These gates ought
to be open again. Give us another chance"? If the steamer is to sail for Hamburg, and we want
to get to Germany by that line, and we read in every evening and every morning newspaper that
it will sail on a certain day, for two weeks we have that advertisement before our eyes, and
then we go down to the docks fifteen minutes after it has shoved off into the stream and say:
"Come back. Give me another chance. It is not fair to treat me in this way. Swing up to the
dock again, and throw out planks, and let me come on board." Such behavior would invite arrest
as a madman.

And if, after the Gospel ship has lain at anchor before our eyes for years and years, and all
the benign voices of earth and heaven have urged us to get on board, as she might sail away
at any moment, and after awhile she sails without us, is it common sense to expect her to come
back? You might as well go out on the Highlands at Neversink and call to the "Aurania" after
she has been three days out, and expect her to return, as to call back an opportunity for heaven
when it once has sped away. All heaven offered us as a gratuity, and for a life-time we refuse
to take it, and then rush on the bosses of Jehovah's buckler demanding another chance. There
ought to be, there can be, there will be no such thing as posthumous opportunity. Thus, our
common sense agrees with my text--"If the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north,
in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be."

You see that this idea lifts this world up from an unimportant way-station to a platform of
stupendous issues, and makes all eternity whirl around this hour. But one trial for which all
the preparation must be made in this world, or never made at all. That piles up all the emphases
and all the climaxes and all the destinies into life here. No other chance! Oh, how that augments
the value and the importance of this chance!

Alexander with his army used to surround a city, and then would lift a great light in token
to the people that, if they surrendered before that light went out, all would be well; but
if once the light went out, then the battering-rams would swing against the wall, and demolition
and disaster would follow. Well, all we need do for our present and everlasting safety is to
make surrender to Christ, the King and Conqueror--surrender of our hearts, surrender of our
lives, surrender of everything. And He keeps a great light burning, light of Gospel invitation,
light kindled with the wood of the cross and flaming up against the dark night of our sin and
sorrow. Surrender while that great light continues to burn, for after it goes out there will
be no other opportunity of making peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Talk of another
chance! Why, this is a supernal chance!

In the time of Edward the Sixth, at the battle of Musselburgh, a private soldier, seeing that
the Earl of Huntley had lost his helmet, took off his own helmet and put it upon the head of
the earl; and the head of the private soldier uncovered, he was soon slain, while his commander
rode safely out of the battle. But in our case, instead of a private soldier offering helmet
to an earl, it is a King putting His crown upon an unworthy subject, the King dying that we
might live. Tell it to all points of the compass. Tell it to night and day. Tell it to all
earth and heaven. Tell it to all centuries, all ages, all millenniums, that we have such a
magnificent chance in this world that we need no other chance in the next.

I am in the burnished Judgment Hall of the Last Day. A great white throne is lifted, but the
Judge has not yet taken it. While we are waiting for His arrival I hear immortal spirits in
conversation. "What are you waiting here for?" says a soul that went up from Madagascar to
a soul that ascended from America. The latter says: "I came from America, where forty years
I heard the Gospel preached, and Bible read, and from the prayer that I learned in infancy
at my mother's knee until my last hour I had Gospel advantage, but, for some reason, I did
not make the Christian choice, and I am here waiting for the Judge to give me a new trial and
another chance." "Strange!" says the other; "I had but one Gospel call in Madagascar, and I
accepted it, and I do not need another chance."

"Why are you here?" says one who on earth had feeblest intellect to one who had great brain,
and silvery tongue, and scepters of influence. The latter responds: "Oh, I knew more than my
fellows. I mastered libraries, and had learned titles from colleges, and my name was a synonym
for eloquence and power. And yet I neglected my soul, and I am here waiting for a new trial."
"Strange," says the one of the feeble earthly capacity; "I knew but little of worldly knowledge,
but I knew Christ, and made Him my partner, and I have no need of another chance."

Now the ground trembles with the approaching chariot. The great folding-doors of the Hall swing
open. "Stand back!" cry the celestial ushers. "Stand back, and let the Judge of quick and dead
pass through!" He takes the throne, and, looking over the throng of nations, He says: "Come
to judgment, the last judgment, the only judgment!" By one flash from the throne all the history
of each one flames forth to the vision of himself and all others. "Divide!" says the Judge
to the assembly. "Divide!" echo the walls. "Divide!" cry the guards angelic.

And now the immortals separate, rushing this way and that, and after awhile there is a great
aisle between them, and a great vacuum widening and widening, and the Judge, turning to the
throng on one side, says: "He that is righteous, let him be righteous still, and he that is
holy, let him be holy still;" and then, turning toward the throng on the opposite side, He
says: "He that is unjust, let him be unjust still, and he that is filthy, let him be filthy
still;" and then, lifting one hand toward each group, He declares: "If the tree fall toward
the south or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be." And
then I hear something jar with a great sound. It is the closing of the Book of Judgment. The
Judge ascends the stairs behind the throne. The hall of the last assize is cleared and shut.
The high court of eternity is adjourned forever.

THE LORD'S RAZOR.

    "In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is
    hired, namely, by them beyond the river, by the King of
    Assyria."--ISAIAH vii: 20.

The Bible is the boldest book ever written. There are no similitudes in Ossian or the Iliad
or the Odyssey so daring. Its imagery sometimes seems on the verge of the reckless, but only
seems so. The fact is that God would startle and arouse and propel men and nations. A tame
and limping similitude would fail to accomplish the object. While there are times when He employs
in the Bible the gentle dew and the morning cloud and the dove and the daybreak in the presentation
of truth, we often find the iron chariot, the lightning, the earthquake, the spray, the sword,
and, in my text, the razor.

This keen-bladed instrument has advanced in usefulness with the ages. In Bible times and lands
the beard remained uncut save in the seasons of mourning and humiliation, but the razor was
always a suggestive symbol. David says of Doeg, his antagonist: "Thy tongue is a sharp razor
working deceitfully;" that is, it pretends to clear the face, but is really used for deadly
incision. In this morning's text the weapon of the toilet appears under the following circumstances:
Judea needed to have some of its prosperities cut off, and God sends against it three Assyrian
kings--first Sennacherib, then Esrahaddon, and afterward Nebuchadnezzar. Those three sharp
invasions, that cut down the glory of Judea, are compared to so many sweeps of the razor across
the face of the land. And these circumstances were called a hired razor because God took the
kings of Assyria, with whom He had no sympathy, to do the work, and paid them in palaces and
spoils and annexations. These kings were hired to execute the divine behests.

Well, if God's judgments are razors, we had better be careful how we use them on other people.
In careful sheath these domestic weapons are put away, where no one by accident may touch them,
and where the hands of children may not reach them. Such instruments must be carefully handled
or not handled at all. But how recklessly some people wield the judgments of God! If a man
meet with business misfortune, how many there are ready to cry out: "That is a judgment of
God upon him because he was unscrupulous, or arrogant, or overreaching, or miserly. I thought
he would get cut down! What a clean sweep of everything! His city house and country house gone!
His stables emptied of all the fine bays and sorrels and grays that used to prance by his door!
All his resources overthrown, and all that he prided himself on tumbled into demolition! Good
for him!" Stop, my brother. Don't sling around too freely the judgments of God, for they are
razors.

Some of the most wicked business men succeed, and they live and die in prosperity, and some
of the most honest and conscientious are driven into bankruptcy. Perhaps his manner was unfortunate,
and he was not really as proud as he looked to be. Some of those who carry their head erect
and look imperial are humble as a child, while many a man in seedy coat and slouch hat and
unblacked shoes is as proud as Lucifer. You can not tell by a man's look. Perhaps he was not
unscrupulous in business, for there are two sides to every story, and everybody that accomplishes
anything for himself or others gets industriously lied about. Perhaps his business misfortune
was not a punishment, but the fatherly discipline to prepare him for heaven, and God may love
him far more than He loves you, who can pay dollar for dollar, and are put down in the commercial
catalogues as A1. Whom the Lord loveth He gives four hundred thousand dollars and lets die
on embroidered pillows? No: whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth. Better keep your hand off the
Lord's razors, lest they cut and wound people that do not deserve it. If you want to shave
off some of the bristling pride of your own heart do so; but be very careful how you put the
sharp edge on others.

How I do dislike the behavior of those persons who, when people are unfortunate, say: "I told
you so--getting punished--served him right." If those I-told-you-so's got their desert they
would long ago have been pitched over the battlements. The mote in their neighbor's eyes--so
small that it takes a microscope to find it--gives them more trouble than the beam which obscures
their own optics. With air sometimes supercilious and sometimes Pharisaical, and always blasphemous,
they take the razor of the divine judgment and sharpen it on the hone of their own hard hearts,
and then go to work on men sprawled out at full length under disaster, cutting mercilessly.
They begin by soft expressions of sympathy and pity and half praise, and, lather the victim
all over before they put on the sharp edge.

Let us be careful how we shoot at others lest we take down the wrong one, remembering the servant
of King William Rufus who shot at a deer, but the arrow glanced against a tree and killed the
king. Instead of going out with shafts to pierce, and razors to cut, we had better imitate
the friend of Richard Coeur de Lion, who, in the war of the Crusades, was captured and imprisoned,
but none of his friends knew where. So his loyal friend went around the land from stronghold
to stronghold, and sung at each window a snatch of song that Richard Coeur de Lion had taught
him in other days. And one day, coming before a jail where he suspected his king might be incarcerated,
he sung two lines of song, and immediately King Richard responded from his cell with the other
two lines, and so his whereabouts were discovered, and immediately a successful movement was
made for his liberation. So let us go up and down the world with the music of kind words and
sympathetic hearts, serenading the unfortunate, and trying to get out of trouble men who had
noble natures, but, by unforeseen circumstances, have been incarcerated, thus liberating kings.
More hymn-book and less razor.

Especially ought we to be apologetic and merciful toward those who, while they have great faults,
have also great virtues. Some people are barren of virtues. No weeds verily, but no flowers.
I must not be too much enraged at a nettle along the fence if it be in a field containing forty
acres of ripe Michigan wheat. At the present time, naturalists tell us, there is on the sun
a spot twenty thousand miles long, but from the brightness and warmth I conclude it is a good
deal of a sun yet.

Again, when I read in my text that the Lord shaves with the hired razor of Assyria the land
of Judea, I bethink myself of the precision of God's providence. A razor swung the tenth part
of an inch out of the right line means either failure or laceration, but God's dealings never
slip, and they do not miss by the thousandth part of an inch the right direction. People talk
as though things in this world were at loose ends. Cholera sweeps across Marseilles and Madrid
and Palermo, and we watch anxiously. Will the epidemic sweep Europe and America? People say,
"That will entirely depend on whether inoculation is a successful experiment; that will depend
entirely on quarantine regulations; that will depend on the early or late appearance of frost;
that epidemic is pitched into the world, and it goes blundering across the continents, and
it is all guess-work and an appalling perhaps."

My friends, I think, perhaps, that God had something to do with it, and that His mercy may
have in some way protected us--that He may have done as much for us as the quarantine and the
health officers. It was right and a necessity that all caution should be used, but there has
come enough macaroni from Italy, and enough grapes from the south of France, and enough rags
from tatterdemalions, and hidden in these articles of transportation enough choleraic germs
to have left by this time all Brooklyn mourning at Greenwood, and all Philadelphia at Laurel
Hill, and all Boston at Mount Auburn. I thank all the doctors and quarantines; but, more than
all, and first of all, and last of all, and all the time, I thank God. In all the six thousand
years of the world's existence there has not one thing merely "happened so." God is not an
anarchist, but a King, a Father.

When little Tod, the son of President Lincoln, died, all the land sympathized with the sorrow
in the White House. He used to rush into the room where the cabinet was in session, and while
the most eminent men of the land were discussing the questions of national existence. But the
child had no care about those questions. Now God the Father, and God the Son, and God the Holy
Ghost are in perpetual session in regard to this world and kindred worlds. Shall you, His child,
rush in to criticise or arraign or condemn the divine government? No; the Cabinet of the Eternal
Three can govern and will govern in the wisest and best way, and there never will be a mistake,
and like razor skillfully swung, shall cut that which ought to be cut, and avoid that which
ought to be avoided. Precision to the very hair-breadth. Earthly time-pieces may get out of
order and strike wrong, saying that it is one o'clock when it is two, or two when it is three.
God's clock is always right, and when it is one it strikes one, and when it is twelve it strikes
twelve, and the second hand is as accurate as the minute hand.

Further, my text tells us that God sometimes shaves nations: "In the same day shall the Lord
shave with the razor that is hired." With one sharp sweep He went across Judea and down went
its pride and its power. In 1861 God shaved our nation. We had allowed to grow Sabbath desecration,
and oppression, and blasphemy, and fraud, and impurity, and all sorts of turpitude. The South
had its sins, and the North its sins, and the East its sins, and the West its sins. We had
been warned again and again, and we did not heed. At length the sword of war cut from the St.
Lawrence to the Gulf, and from Atlantic seaboard to Pacific seaboard. The pride of the land,
not the cowards, but the heroes, on both sides went down. And that which we took for the sword
of war was the Lord's razor.

In 1862, again, it went across the land. In 1863 again. In 1864 again. Then the sharp instrument
was incased and put away. Never in the history of the ages was any land more thoroughly shaved
than during those four years of civil combat; and, my brethren, if we do not quit some of our
individual sins, national sins, the Lord will again take us in hand. He has other razors within
reach besides war: epidemics, droughts, deluges, plagues--grasshopper and locust; or our overtowering
success may so far excite the jealousy of other lands that, under some pretext, the great nations
of Europe and Asia may combine to put us down. This nation, so easily approached on north and
south and from both oceans, might have on hand at once more hostilities than were ever arrayed
against any power.

We have recently been told by skillful engineers that all our fortresses around New York harbor
could not keep the shells from being hurled from the sea into the heart of these great cities.
Insulated China, the wealthiest of all nations, as will be realized when her resources are
developed, will have adopted all the modes of modern warfare, and at the Golden Gate may be
discussing whether Americans must go. If the combined jealousies of Europe and Asia should
come upon us, we should have more work on hand than would be pleasant. I hope no such combination
against us will ever be formed, but I want to show that, as Assyria was the hired razor against
Judea, and Cyrus the hired razor against Babylon, and the Huns the hired razor against the
Goths, there are now many razors that the Lord could hire if, because of our national sins,
He should undertake to shave us. In 1870, Germany was the razor with which the Lord shaved
France. England is the razor with which very shortly the Lord will shave Russia. But nations
are to repent in a day. May a speedy and world-wide coming to God hinder, on both sides the
sea, all national calamity. But do not let us, as a nation, either by unrighteous law at Washington,
or bad lives among ourselves, defy the Almighty.

One would think that our national symbol of the eagle might sometimes suggest another eagle,
that which ancient Rome carried. In the talons of that eagle were clutched at one time Britain,
France, Spain, Italy, Dalmatia, Rhactia, Noricum, Pannonia, Moesia, Dacia, Thrace, Macedonia,
Greece, Asia Minor, Syria, Phoenicia, Palestine, Egypt, and all Northern Africa, and all the
islands of the Mediterranean, indeed, all the world that was worth having, an hundred and twenty
millions of people under the wings of that one eagle. Where is she now? Ask Gibbon, the historian,
in his prose poem, the "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire." Ask her gigantic ruins straggling
their sadness through the ages, the screech owl at windows out of which world-wide conquerors
looked. Ask the day of judgment when her crowned debauchees, Commodus and Pertinax, and Caligula
and Diocletian, shall answer for their infamy? As men and as nations let us repent, and have
our trust in a pardoning God, rather than depend on former successes for immunity! Out of thirteen
greatest battles of the world, Napoleon had lost but one before Waterloo. Pride and destruction
often ride in the same saddle.

But notice once more, and more than all in my text, that God is so kind and loving, that when
it is necessary for Him to cut, He has to go to others for the sharp-edged weapon. "In the
same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired." God is love. God is pity. God is
help. God is shelter. God is rescue. There are no sharp edges about Him, no thrusting points,
no instruments of laceration. If you want balm for wounds, He has that. If you want salve for
divine eyesight, He has that. But if there is sharp and cutting work to do which requires a
razor, that He hires. God has nothing about Him that hurts, save when dire necessity demands,
and then He has to go clear off to some one else to get the instrument.

This divine geniality will be no novelty to those who have pondered the Calvarean massacre,
where God submerged Himself in human tears, and crimsoned Himself from punctured arteries,
and let the terrestrial and infernal worlds maul Him until the chandeliers of the sky had to
be turned out, because the universe could not endure the indecency. Illustrious for love He
must have been to take all that as our substitute, paying out of His own heart the price of
our admission at the gates of heaven.

King Henry II., of England, crowned his son as king, and on the day of coronation put on a
servant's garb and waited, he, the king, at the son's table, to the astonishment of all the
princes. But we know of a more wondrous scene, the King of heaven and earth offering to put
on you, His child, the crown of life, and in the form of a servant waiting on you with blessing.
Extol that love, all painting, all sculpture, all music, all architecture, all worship! In
Dresdenian gallery let Raphael hold Him up as a child, and in Antwerp Cathedral let Rubens
hand Him down from the cross as a martyr, and Handel make all his oratorio vibrate around that
one chord--"He was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquity." But not until
all the redeemed get home, and from the countenances of all the piled-up galleries of the ransomed
shall be revealed the wonders of redemption, shall either man or seraph or archangel know the
height, and depth, and length, and breadth of the love of God.

At our national capital, a monument in honor of him who did more than any one to achieve our
American Independence, was for scores of years in building, and most of us were discouraged
and said it never would be completed. And how glad we all were when in the presence of the
highest officials of the nation, the work was done! But will the monument to Him who died for
the eternal liberation of the human race ever be completed? For ages the work has been going
up; evangelists and apostles and martyrs have been adding to the heavenly pile, and every one
of the millions of the redeemed going up from earth, has made to it contribution of gladness,
and weight of glory is swung to the top of other weight of glory, higher and higher as the
centuries go by, higher and higher as the whole millenniums roll, sapphire on the top of jasper,
sardonyx on the top of chalcedony, and chrysoprasus above topaz, until, far beneath shall be
the walls and towers and domes of the great capitol, a monument forever and forever rising,
and yet never done.

Allelujah, amen.

WINDOWS TOWARD JERUSALEM.

    "His windows being open and his chamber toward
    Jerusalem."--DAN. vi: 10.

The scoundrelly princes of Persia, urged on by political jealousy against Daniel, have succeeded
in getting a law passed that whosoever prays to God shall be put under the paws and teeth of
the lions, who are lashing themselves in rage and hunger up and down the stone cage, or putting
their lower jaws on the ground, bellowing till the earth trembles. But the leonine threat did
not hinder the devotion of Daniel, the Coeur-de-Lion of the ages. His enemies might as well
have a law that the sun should not draw water or that the south wind should not sweep across
a garden of magnolias or that God should be abolished. They could not scare him with the red-hot
furnaces, and they can not now scare him with the lions. As soon as Daniel hears of this enactment
he leaves his office of Secretary of State, with its upholstery of crimson and gold, and comes
down the white marble steps and goes to his own house. He opens his window and puts the shutters
back and pulls the curtain aside so that he can look toward the sacred city of Jerusalem, and
then prays.

I suppose the people in the street gathered under and before his window, and said: "Just see
that man defying the law; he ought to be arrested." And the constabulary of the city rush to
the police head-quarters and report that Daniel is on his knees at the wide-open window. "You
are my prisoner," says the officer of the law, dropping a heavy hand on the shoulder of the
kneeling Daniel. As the constables open the door of the cavern to thrust in their prisoner,
they see the glaring eyes of the monsters. But Daniel becomes the first lion-tamer, and they
lick his hand and fawn at his feet, and that night he sleeps with the shaggy mane of a wild
beast for his pillow, while the king that night, sleepless in the palace, has on him the paw
and teeth of a lion he can not tame--the lion of a remorseful conscience.

What a picture it would be for some artist; Darius, in the early dusk of morning, not waiting
for footmen or chariot, hastening to the den, all flushed and nervous and in dishabille, and
looking through the crevices of the cage to see what had become of his prime-minister! "What,
no sound!" he says: "Daniel is surely devoured, and the lions are sleeping after their horrid
meal, the bones of the poor man scattered across the floor of the cavern." With trembling voice
Darius calls out, "Daniel!" No answer, for the prophet is yet in profound slumber. But a lion,
more easily awakened, advances, and, with hot breath blown through the crevice, seems angrily
to demand the cause of this interruption, and then another wild beast lifts his mane from under
Daniel's head, and the prophet, waking up, comes forth to report himself all unhurt and well.

But our text stands us at Daniel's window, open toward Jerusalem. Why in that direction open?
Jerusalem was his native land, and all the pomp of his Babylonish successes could not make
him forget it. He came there from Jerusalem at eighteen years of age, and he never visited
it, though he lived to be eighty-five years. Yet, when he wanted to arouse the deepest emotions
and grandest aspirations of his heart, he had his window open toward his native Jerusalem.
There are many of you to-day who understand that without any exposition. This is getting to
be a nation of foreigners. They have come into all occupations and professions. They sit in
all churches. It may be twenty years ago since you got your naturalization papers, and you
may be thoroughly Americanized, but you can't forget the land of your birth, and your warmest
sympathies go out toward it. Your windows are open toward Jerusalem. Your father and mother
are buried there. It may have been a very humble home in which you were born, but your memory
often plays around it, and you hope some day to go and see it--the hill, the tree, the brook,
the house, the place so sacred, the door from which you started off with parental blessing
to make your own way in the world; and God only knows how sometimes you have longed to see
the familiar places of your childhood, and how in awful crises of life you would like to have
caught a glimpse of the old, wrinkled face that bent over you as you lay on the gentle lap
twenty or forty or fifty years ago. You may have on this side of the sea risen in fortune,
and, like Daniel, have become great, and may have come into prosperities which you never could
have reached if you had stayed there, and you may have many windows to your house--bay-windows,
and sky-light-windows, and windows of conservatory, and windows on all sides--but you have
at least one window open toward Jerusalem.

When the foreign steamer comes to the wharf, you see the long line of sailors, with shouldered
mail-bags, coming down the planks, carrying as many letters as you might suppose would be enough
for a year's correspondence, and this repeated again and again during the week. Multitudes
of them are letters from home, and at all the post-offices of the land people will go to the
window and anxiously ask for them, hundreds of thousands of persons finding that window of
foreign mails the open window toward Jerusalem. Messages that say: "When are you coming home
to see us? Brother has gone into the army. Sister is dead. Father and mother are getting very
feeble. We are having a great struggle to get on here. Would you advise us to come to you,
or will you come to us? All join in love, and hope to meet you, if not in this world, then
in a better. Good-bye."

Yes, yes; in all these cities, and amid the flowering western prairies, and on the slopes of
the Pacific, and amid the Sierras, and on the banks of the lagoon, and on the ranches of Texas
there is an uncounted multitude who, this hour, stand and sit and kneel with their windows
open toward Jerusalem. Some of them played on the heather of the Scottish hills. Some of them
were driven out by Irish famine. Some of them, in early life, drilled in the German army. Some
of them were accustomed at Lyons or Marseilles or Paris to see on the street Victor Hugo and
Gambetta. Some chased the chamois among the Alpine precipices. Some plucked the ripe clusters
from Italian vineyard. Some lifted their faces under the midnight sun of Norway. It is no dishonor
to our land that they remember the place of their nativity. Miscreants would they be if, while
they have some of their windows open to take in the free air of America and the sunlight of
an atmosphere which no kingly despot has ever breathed, they forgot sometime to open the window
toward Jerusalem.

No wonder that the son of the Swiss, when far away from home, hearing the national air of his
country sung, the malady of home-sickness comes on him so powerfully as to cause his death.
You have the example of the heroic Daniel of my text for keeping early memories fresh. Forget
not the old folks at home. Write often; and, if you have surplus of means and they are poor,
make practical contribution, and rejoice that America is bound to all the world by ties of
sanguinity as is no other nation. Who can doubt but it is appointed for the evangelization
of other lands? What a stirring, melting, gospelizing theory that all the doors of other nations
are open toward us, while our windows are open toward them!

But Daniel, in the text, kept this port-hole of his domestic fortress unclosed because Jerusalem
was the capital of sacred influences. There had smoked the sacrifice. There was the Holy of
Holies. There was the Ark of the Covenant. There stood the temple. We are all tempted to keep
our windows open on the opposite side, toward the world, that we may see and hear and appropriate
its advantages. What does the world say? What does the world think? What does the world do?
Worshipers of the world instead of worshipers of God. Windows open toward Babylon. Windows
open toward Corinth. Windows open toward Athens. Windows open toward Sodom. Windows open toward
the flats, instead of windows open toward the hills. Sad mistake, for this world as a god is
like something I saw the other day in the museum of Strasburg, Germany--the figure of a virgin
in wood and iron. The victim in olden time was brought there, and this figure would open its
arms to receive him, and, once infolded, the figure closed with a hundred knives and lances
upon him, and then let him drop one hundred and eighty feet sheer down. So the world first
embraces its idolaters, then closes upon them with many tortures, and then lets them drop forever
down. The highest honor the world could confer was to make a man Roman emperor; but, out of
sixty-three emperors, it allowed only six to die peacefully in their beds.

The dominion of this world over multitudes is illustrated by the names of coins of many countries.
They have their pieces of money which they call sovereigns and half sovereigns, crowns and
half crowns, Napoleons and half Napoleons, Fredericks and double Fredericks, and ducats, and
Isabellinos, all of which names mean not so much usefulness as dominion. The most of our windows
open toward the exchange, toward the salon of fashion, toward the god of this world. In olden
times the length of the English yard was fixed by the length of the arm of King Henry I., and
we are apt to measure things by a variable standard and by the human arm that in the great
crises of life can give us no help. We need, like Daniel, to open our windows toward God and
religion.

But, mark you, that good lion-tamer is not standing at the window, but kneeling, while he looks
out. Most photographs are taken of those in standing or sitting posture. I now remember but
one picture of a man kneeling, and that was David Livingstone, who in the cause of God and
civilization sacrificed himself; and in the heart of Africa his servant, Majwara, found him
in the tent by the light of a candle, stuck on the top of a box, his head in his hands upon
the pillow, and dead on his knees. But here is a great lion-tamer, living under the dash of
the light, and his hair disheveled of the breeze, praying. The fact is, that a man can see
further on his knees than standing on tiptoe. Jerusalem was about five hundred and fifty statute
miles from Babylon, and the vast Arabian Desert shifted its sands between them. Yet through
that open window Daniel saw Jerusalem, saw all between it, saw beyond, saw time, saw eternity,
saw earth, and saw heaven. Would you like to see the way through your sins to pardon, through
your troubles to comfort, through temptation to rescue, through dire sickness to immortal health,
through night to day, through things terrestrial to things celestial, you will not see them
till you take Daniel's posture. No cap of bone to the joints of the fingers, no cap of bone
to the joints of the elbow, but cap of bone to the knees, made so because the God of the body
was the God of the soul, and especial provision for those who want to pray, and physiological
structure joins with spiritual necessity in bidding us pray, and pray, and pray.

In olden time the Earl of Westmoreland said he had no need to pray, because he had enough pious
tenants on his estate to pray for him; but all the prayers of the church universal amount to
nothing unless, like Daniel, we pray for ourselves. Oh, men and women, bounded on one side
by Shadrach's red-hot furnace, and the other side by devouring lions, learn the secret of courage
and deliverance by looking at that Babylonish window open toward the south-west! "Oh," you
say, "that is the direction of the Arabian Desert!" Yes; but on the other side of the desert
is God, is Christ, is Jerusalem, is heaven.

The Brussels lace is superior to all other lace, so beautiful, so multiform, so expensive--four
hundred francs a pound. All the world seeks it. Do you know how it is made? The spinning is
done in a dark room, the only light admitted through a small aperture, and that light falling
directly on the pattern. And the finest specimens of Christian character I have ever seen or
ever expect to see are those to be found in lives all of whose windows have been darkened by
bereavement and misfortune save one, but under that one window of prayer the interlacing of
divine workmanship went on until it was fit to deck a throne, a celestial embroidery which
angels admired and God approved.

But it is another Jerusalem toward which we now need to open our windows. Toward that bridal
Jerusalem are our windows opened?

We would do well to think more of heaven. It is not a mere annex of earth. It is not a desolate
outpost. As Jerusalem was the capital of Judae, and Babylon the capital of the Babylonian monarchy,
and London is the capital of Great Britain, and Washington is the capital of our own republic,
the New Jerusalem is the capital of the universe. The king lives there, and the royal family
of the redeemed have their palaces there, and there is a congress of many nations and the parliament
of all the worlds. Yea, as Daniel had kindred in Jerusalem of whom he often thought, though
he had left home when a very young man, perhaps father and mother and brothers and sisters
still living, and was homesick to see them, and they belonged to the high circles of royalty,
Daniel himself having royal blood in his veins, so we have in the New Jerusalem a great many
kindred, and we are sometimes homesick to see them, and they are all princes and princesses,
in them the blood imperial, and we do well to keep our windows open toward their eternal residence.

It is a joy for us to believe that while we are interested in them they are interested in us.
Much thought of heaven makes one heavenly. The airs that blow through that open window are
charged with life, and sweep up to us aromas from gardens that never wither, under skies that
never cloud, in a spring-tide that never terminates. Compared with it all other heavens are
dead failures.

Homer's heaven was an elysium which he describes as a plain at the end of the earth or beneath,
with no snow nor rainfall, and the sun never goes down, and Rhadamanthus, the justest of men,
rules. Hesiod's heaven is what he calls the islands of the blessed, in the midst of the ocean,
three times a year blooming with most exquisite flowers, and the air is tinted with purple,
while games and music and horse-races occupy the time. The Scandinavian's heaven was the hall
of Walhalla, where the god Odin gave unending wine-suppers to earthly heroes and heroines.
The Mohammedan's heaven passes its disciples in over the bridge Al-Sirat, which is finer than
a hair and sharper than a sword, and then they are let loose into a riot of everlasting sensuality.

The American aborigines look forward to a heaven of illimitable hunting-ground, partridge and
deer and wild duck more than plentiful, and the hounds never off the scent, and the guns never
missing fire. But the geographer has followed the earth round, and found no Homer's elysium.
Voyagers have traversed the deep in all directions, and found no Hesiod's islands of the blessed.
The Mohammedan's celestial debauchery and the Indian's eternal hunting-ground for vast multitudes
have no charm. But here rolls in the Bible heaven. No more sea--that is, no wide separation.
No more night--that is, no insomnia. No more tears--that is, no heart-break. No more pain--that
is, dismissal of lancet and bitter draught and miasma, and banishment of neuralgias and catalepsies
and consumptions. All colors in the wall except gloomy black; all the music in the major-key,
because celebrative and jubilant. River crystalline, gate crystalline, and skies crystalline,
because everything is clear and without doubt. White robes, and that means sinlessness. Vials
full of odors, and that means pure regalement of the senses. Rainbow, and that means the storm
is over. Marriage supper, and that means gladdest festivity. Twelve manner of fruits, and that
means luscious and unending variety. Harp, trumpet, grand march, anthem, amen, and hallelujah
in the same orchestra. Choral meeting solo, and overture meeting antiphon, and strophe joining
dithyramb, as they roll into the ocean of doxologies. And you and I may have all that, and
have it forever through Christ, if we will let Him with the blood of one wounded hand rub out
our sin, and with the other wounded hand swing open the shining portals.

Day and night keep your window open toward that Jerusalem. Sing about it. Pray about it. Think
about it. Talk about it. Dream about it. Do not be inconsolable about your friends who have
gone into it. Do not worry if something in your heart indicates that you are not far off from
its ecstasies. Do not think that when a Christian dies he stops, for he goes on.

An ingenious man has taken the heavenly furlongs as mentioned in Revelation, and has calculated
that there will be in heaven one hundred rooms sixteen feet square for each ascending soul,
though this world should lose a hundred millions yearly. But all the rooms of heaven will be
ours, for they are family rooms; and as no room in your house is too good for your children,
so all the rooms of all the palaces of the heavenly Jerusalem will be free to God's children
and even the throne-room will not be denied, and you may run up the steps of the throne, and
put your hand on the side of the throne, and sit down beside the king according to the promise:
"To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne."

But you can not go in except as conquerors. Many years ago the Turks and Christians were in
battle, and the Christians were defeated, and with their commander Stephen fled toward a fortress
where the mother of this commander was staying. When she saw her son and his army in disgraceful
retreat, she had the gates of the fortress rolled shut, and then from the top of the battlement
cried out to her son, "You can not enter here except as conqueror!" Then Stephen rallied his
forces and resumed the battle and gained the day, twenty thousand driving back two hundred
thousand. For those who are defeated in the battle with sin and death and hell nothing but
shame and contempt; but for those who gain the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ the gates
of the New Jerusalem will hoist, and there shall be an abundant entrance into the everlasting
kingdom of our Lord, toward which you do well to keep your windows open.

STORMED AND TAKEN.

Abimelech is a name malodorous in Bible history, and yet full of profitable suggestion. Buoys
are black and uncomely, but they tell where the rocks are. The snake's rattle is hideous, but
it gives timely warning. From the piazza of my summer home, night by night I saw a lighthouse
fifteen miles away, not placed there for adornment, but to tell mariners to stand off from
that dangerous point. So all the iron-bound coast of moral danger is marked with Saul, and
Herod, and Rehoboam, and Jezebel, and Abimelech. These bad people are mentioned in the Bible,
not only as warnings, but because there were sometimes flashes of good conduct in their lives
worthy of imitation. God sometimes drives a very straight nail with a very poor hammer.

The city of Shechem had to be taken, and Abimelech and his men were to do it. I see the dust
rolling up from their excited march. I hear the shouting of the captains and the yell of the
besiegers. The swords clack sharply on the parrying shields, and the vociferation of two armies
in death-grapple is horrible to hear. The battle goes on all day, and as the sun is setting
Abimelech and his army cry "Surrender!" to the beaten foe. And, unable longer to resist, the
city of Shechem falls; and there are pools of blood, and dissevered limbs, and glazed eyes
looking up beggingly for mercy that war never shows, and dying soldiers with their head on
the lap of mother, or wife, or sister, who have come out for the last offices of kindness and
affection: and a groan rolls across the city, stopping not, because there is no spot for it
to rest, so full is the place of other groans. A city wounded! A city dying! A city dead! Wail
for Shechem, all ye who know the horrors of a sacked town!

As I look over the city I can find only one building standing, and that is the temple of the
god Berith. Some soldiers outside of the city, in a tower, finding that they can no longer
defend Shechem, now begin to look out for their own personal safety, and they fly to this temple
of Berith. They get within the door, shut it, and they say, "Now we are safe. Abimelech has
taken the whole city, but he can not take this temple of Berith. Here we shall be under the
protection of the gods." Oh, Berith, the god! do your best now for these refugees. If you have
eyes, pity them. If you have hands, help them. If you have thunderbolts, strike for them.

But how shall Abimelech and his army take this temple of Berith and the men who are there fortified?
Will they do it with sword? Nay. Will they do it with spear? Nay. With battering-ram, rolled
up by hundred-armed strength, crashing against the walls? Nay. Abimelech marches his men to
a wood in Zalmon. With his ax he hews off a limb of a tree, and puts that limb upon his own
shoulder, and then he says to his men, "You do the same." They are obedient to their commander.

Oh, what a strange army, with what strange equipment! They come to the foot of the temple of
Berith, and Abimelech takes his limb of a tree and throws it down; and the first platoon of
soldiers come up and they throw down their branches; and the second platoon, and the third,
until all around about the temple of Berith there is a pile of tree-branches. The Shechemites
look out from the windows of the temple upon what seems to them childish play on the part of
their enemies. But soon the flints are struck, and the spark begins to kindle the brush, and
the flame comes up all through the pile, and the red elements leap to the casement, and the
woodwork begins to blaze, and one arm of flame is thrown up on the right side of the temple,
and another arm of flame is thrown up on the left side of the temple, until they clasp their
lurid palms under the wild night sky, and the cry of "Fire!" within, and "Fire!" without announces
the terror, and the strangulation, and the doom of the Shechemites, and the complete overthrow
of the temple of the god Berith. Then there went up a shout, long and loud, from the stout
lungs and swarthy chests of Abimelech and his men, as they stood amid the ashes and the dust,
crying: "Victory! Victory!"

Now, I learn first from this subject the folly of depending upon any one form of tactics in
anything we have to do for this world or for God. Look over the weaponry of olden times--javelins,
battle-axes, habergeons--and show me a single weapon with which Abimelech and his men could
have gained such complete victory. It is no easy thing to take a temple thus armed. I saw a
house where, during revolutionary times, a man and his wife kept back a whole regiment hour
after hour, because they were inside the house, and the assaulting soldiers were outside the
house. Yet here Abimelech and his army come up, they surround this temple, and they capture
it without the loss of a single man on the part of Abimelech, although I suppose some of the
old Israelitish heroes told Abimelech: "You are only going up there to be cut to pieces." Yet
you are willing to testify to-day that by no other mode--certainly not by ordinary modes--could
that temple so easily, so thoroughly have been taken. Fathers and mothers, brethren and sisters
in Jesus Christ, what the Church most wants to learn this day is that any plan is right, is
lawful, is best, which helps to overthrow the temple of sin, and capture this world for God.
We are very apt to stick to the old modes of attack.

We put on the old-style coat of mail. We come up with the sharp, keen, glittering steel spear
of argument, expecting in that way to take the castle, but they have a thousand spears where
we have ten. And so the castle of sin stands. Oh, my friends, we will never capture this world
for God by any keen saber of sarcasm, by any glittering lances of rhetoric, by any sapping
and mining of profound disquisition, by any gunpowdery explosions of indignation, by sharp
shootings of wit, by howitzers of mental strength made to swing shell five miles, by cavalry
horses gorgeously caparisoned pawing the air. In vain all the attempts on the part of these
ecclesiastical foot soldiers, light horsemen, and grenadiers.

My friends, I propose this morning a different style of tactics. Let each one go to the forest
of God's promise and invitation, and hew down a branch and put it on his shoulder, and let
us all come around these obstinate iniquities, and then, with this pile, kindled by the fires
of a holy zeal and the flames of a consecrated life, we will burn them out. What steel can
not do, fire may. And I, this morning, announce myself in favor of any plan of religious attack
that succeeds--any plan of religious attack, however radical, however odd, however unpopular,
however hostile to all the conventionalities of Church and State. We want more heart in our
song, more heart in our alms-giving, more heart in our prayers, more heart in our preaching.
Oh, for less of Abimelech's sword, and more of Abimelech's conflagration! I have often heard

    "There is a fountain filled with blood"

sung artistically by four birds perched on their Sunday roost in the gallery, until I thought
of Jenny Lind, and Nilsson, and Sontag, and all the other warblers; but there came not one
tear to my eye, nor one master emotion to my heart. But one night I went down to the African
Methodist meeting-house in Philadelphia, and at the close of the service a black woman, in
the midst of the audience, began to sing that hymn, and all the audience joined in, and we
were floated some three or four miles nearer heaven than I have ever been since. I saw with
my own eyes that "fountain filled with blood"--red, agonizing, sacrificial, redemptive--and
I heard the crimson plash of the wave as we all went down under it:

    "For sinners plunged beneath that flood
    Lose all their guilty stains."

Oh, my friends, the Gospel is not a syllogism; It is not casuistry, it is not polemics, or
the science of squabble. It is blood-red fact; it is warm-hearted invitation; it is leaping,
bounding, flying good news; it is efflorescent with all light; it is rubescent with all glow;
it is arborescent with all sweet shade. I have seen the sun rise on Mount Washington, and from
the Tip-top House; but there was no beauty in that compared with the day-spring from on high
when Christ gives light to a soul. I have heard Parepa sing; but there was no music in that
compared with the voice of Christ when He said: "Thy sins are forgiven thee; go in peace."
Good news! Let every one cut down a branch of this tree of life and wave it. Let him throw
it down and kindle it. Let all the way from Mount Zalmon to Shechem be filled with the tossing
joy. Good news! This bonfire of the Gospel shall consume the last temple of sin, and will illumine
the sky with apocalyptic joy that Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. Any new
plan that makes a man quit his sin, and that prostrates a wrong, I am as much in favor of as
though all the doctors, and the bishops, and the archbishops, and the synods, and the academical
gownsmen of Christianity sanctioned it. The temple of Berith must come down, and I do not care
how it comes.

Still further, I learn from this subject the power of example. If Abimelech had sat down on
the grass and told his men to go and get the boughs, and go out to the battle, they would never
have gone at all, or, if they had, it would have been without any spirit or effective result;
but when Abimelech goes with his own ax and hews down a branch, and with Abimelech's arm puts
it on Abimelech's shoulder, and marches on--then, my text says, all the people did the same.
How natural that was! What made Garibaldi and Stonewall Jackson the most magnetic commanders
of this century? They always rode ahead. Oh, the overcoming power of example! Here is a father
on the wrong road; all his boys go on the wrong road. Here is a father who enlists for Christ;
his children enlist.

I saw, in some of the picture-galleries of Europe, that before many of the great works of the
masters--the old masters--there would be sometimes four or five artists taking copies of the
pictures. These copies they were going to carry with them, perhaps to distant lands; and I
have thought that your life and character are a masterpiece, and it is being copied, and long
after you are gone it will bloom or blast in the homes of those who knew you, and be a Gorgon
or a Madonna. Look out what you say. Look out what you do. Eternity will hear the echo. The
best sermon ever preached is a holy life. The best music ever chanted is a consistent walk.

I saw, near the beach, a wrecker's machine. It was a cylinder with some holes at the side,
made for the thrusting in of some long poles with strong leverage; and when there is a vessel
in trouble or going to pieces out in the offing, the wreckers shoot a rope out to the suffering
men. They grasp it, and the wreckers turn the cylinder, and the rope winds around the cylinder,
and those who are shipwrecked are saved. So at your feet to-day there is an influence with
a tremendous leverage. The rope attached to it swings far out into the billowy future. Your
children, your children's children, and all the generations that are to follow, will grip that
influence and feel the long-reaching pull long after the figures on your tombstone are so near
worn out that the visitor can not tell whether it was in 1885, or 1775, or 1675 that you died.

Still further, I learn from this subject the advantages of concerted action. If Abimelech had
merely gone out with a tree-branch the work would not have been accomplished, or if ten, twenty,
or thirty men had gone; but when all the axes are lifted, and all the sharp edges fall, and
all these men carry each his tree-branch down and throw it about the temple, the victory is
gained--the temple falls. My friends, where there is one man in the Church of God at this day
shouldering his whole duty there are a great many who never lift an ax or swing a blow.

Oh, we all want our boat to get over to the golden sands, but the most of us are seated either
in the prow or in the stern, wrapped in our striped shawl, holding a big-handled sunshade,
while others are blistered in the heat, and pull until the oar-locks groan, and the blades
bend till they snap. Oh, religious sleepy-heads, wake up! While we have in our church a great
many who are toiling for God, there are some too lazy to brush the flies off their heavy eyelids.

Suppose, in military circles, on the morning of battle the roll is called, and out of a thousand
men only a hundred men in the regiment answered. What excitement there would be in the camp!
What would the colonel say? What high talking there would be among the captains, and majors,
and the adjutants! Suppose word came to head-quarters that these delinquents excused themselves
on the ground that they had overslept themselves, or that the morning was damp and they were
afraid of getting their feet wet, or that they were busy cooking rations. My friends, this
is the morning of the day of God Almighty's battle! Do you not see the troops? Hear you not
all the trumpets of heaven and all the drums of hell? Which side are you on? If you are on
the right side, to what cavalry troop, to what artillery service, to what garrison duty do
you belong? In other words, in what Sabbath-school do you teach? in what prayer-meeting do
you exhort? to what penitentiary do you declare eternal liberty? to what almshouse do you announce
the riches of heaven? What broken bone of sorrow have you ever set? Are you doing nothing?
Is it possible that a man or woman sworn to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ is doing
nothing? Then hide the horrible secret from the angels. Keep it away from the book of judgment.
If you are doing nothing do not let the world find it out, lest they charge your religion with
being a false-face. Do not let your cowardice and treason be heard among the martyrs about
the throne, lest they forget the sanctity of the place and curse your betrayal of that cause
for which they agonized and died.

May the eternal God rouse us all to action! As for myself, I feel I would be ashamed to die
now and enter heaven until I have accomplished something more decisive for the Lord that bought
me. I would like to join with you in an oath, with hand high uplifted to heaven, swearing new
allegiance to Jesus Christ, and to work more for His kingdom. Are you ready to join with me
in some new work for Christ? I feel that there is such a thing as claustral piety, that there
is such a thing as insular work; but it seems to me that what we want now is concerted action.
The temple of Berith is very broad, and it is very high. It has been going up by the hands
of men and devils, and no human enginery can demolish it; but if the fifty thousand ministers
of Christ in this country should each take a branch of the tree of life, and all their congregations
should do the same, and we should march on and throw these branches around the great temples
of sin, and worldliness and folly, it would need no match, or coal, or torch of ours to touch
off the pile; for, as in the days of Elijah, fire would fall from heaven and kindle the bonfire
of Christian victory over demolished sin. It is kindling now! Huzzah! The day is ours!

Still further, I learn from this subject the danger of false refuges. As soon as these Shechemites
got into the temple they thought they were safe. They said: "Berith will take care of us. Abimelech
may batter down everything else; he can not batter down this temple where we are now hid."
But very soon they heard the timbers crackling, and they were smothered with smoke, and they
miserably died. And you and I are just as much tempted to false refuges. The mirror this morning
may have persuaded you that you have a comely cheek; your best friends may have persuaded you
that you have elegant manners. Satan may have told you that you are all right; but bear with
me if I tell you that, if unpardoned, you are all wrong. I have no clinometer by which to measure
how steep is the inclined plane you are descending, but I know it is very steep. "Well," you
say, "if the Bible is true I am a sinner. Show me some refuge; I will step right into it."

I suppose every person in this audience this moment is stepping into some kind of refuge. Here
you step in the tower of good works. You say: "I shall be safe here in this refuge." The battlements
are adorned; the steps are varnished; on the wall are pictures of all the suffering you have
alleviated, and all the schools you have established, and all the fine things you have ever
done. Up in that tower you feel you are safe. But hear you not the tramp of your unpardoned
sins all around the tower? They each have a match. They are kindling the combustible material.
You feel the heat and the suffocation. Oh, may you leap in time, the Gospel declaring: "By
the deeds of the law shall no flesh living be justified."

"Well," you say, "I have been driven out of that tower; where shall I go?" Step into this tower
of indifference. You say: "If this tower is attacked, it will be a great while before it is
taken." You feel at ease. But there is an Abimelech, with ruthless assaults, coming on. Death
and his forces are gathering around, and they demand that you surrender everything, and they
clamor for your immortal overthrow, and they throw their skeleton arms in the windows, and
with their iron fists they beat against the door; and while you are trying to keep them out
you see the torches of judgment kindling, and every forest is a torch, and every mountain a
torch, and every sea a torch; and while the Alps, the Pyrenees, and Himalayas turn into a live
coal, blown redder and redder by the whirlwind breath of a God omnipotent, what will become
of your refuge of lies?

"But," says some one, "you are engaged in a very mean business, driving us from tower to tower."
Oh, no. I want to tell you of a Gibraltar that never has been and never will be taken; of a
wall that no satanic assault can scale; of a bulwark that the judgment earthquakes can not
budge. The Bible refers to it when it says: "In God is thy refuge, and underneath thee are
the everlasting arms." Oh, fling yourself into it! Tread down unceremoniously everything that
intercepts you. Wedge your way there. There are enough hounds of death and peril after you
to make you hurry. Many a man has perished just outside the tower, with his foot on the step,
with his hand on the latch. Oh, get inside! Not one surplus second have you to spare. Quick,
quick, quick!

Great God, is life such an uncertain thing? If I bear a little too hard with my right foot
on the earth, does it break through into the grave? Is this world, which swings at the speed
of thousands of miles an hour around the sun, going with tenfold more speed toward the judgment-day?
Oh, I am overborne with the thought; and in the conclusion I cry to one and I cry to the other:
"Oh, time! Oh, eternity! Oh, the dead! Oh, the judgment-day! Oh, Jesus! Oh, God!" But, catching
at the last apostrophe, I feel that I have something to hold on to: for "in God is thy refuge,
and underneath thee are the everlasting arms." And, exhausted with my failure to save myself,
I throw my whole weight of body, mind, and soul on this divine promise, as a weary child throws
itself into the arms of its mother; as a wounded soldier throws himself on the hospital pillow;
as a pursued man throws himself into the refuge; for "in God is thy refuge, and underneath
thee are the everlasting arms." Oh, for a flood of tears with which to express the joy of this
eternal rescue!

ALL THE WORLD AKIN.

    "And hath made of one blood all nations of men."--ACTS xvii: 26.

Some have supposed that God originally made an Asiatic Adam and a European Adam and an African
Adam and an American Adam, but that theory is entirely overthrown by my text, which says that
all nations are blood relatives, having sprung from one and the same stock. A difference in
climate makes much of the difference in national temper.

An American goes to Europe and stays there a long while, and finds his pulse moderating and
his temper becoming more calm. The air on this side the ocean is more tonic than on the other
side. An American breathes more oxygen than a European. A European coming to America finds
a great change taking place in himself. He walks with more rapid strides, and finds his voice
becoming keener and shriller. The Englishman who walks in London Strand at the rate of three
miles the hour, coming to America and residing for a long while here, walks Broadway at the
rate of four miles the hour. Much of the difference between an American and a European, between
an Asiatic and an African, is atmospheric. The lack of the warm sunlight pales the Greenlander.
The full dash of the sunlight darkens the African.

Then, ignorance or intelligence makes its impression on the physical organism--in the one case
ignorance flattening the skull, as with the Egyptian; in the other case intelligence building
up the great dome of the forehead, as with the German. Then the style of god that the nation
worships decides how much it shall be elevated or debased, so that those nations that worship
reptiles are themselves only a superior form of reptile, while those nations that worship the
natural sun in the heavens are the noblest style of barbaric people. But whatever be the difference
of physiognomy, and whatever the difference of temperament, the physiologist tells us that
after careful analysis he finds out that the plasma and the disk in the human blood have the
same characteristics: so that if you should put twenty men from twenty nationalities abreast
in line of battle, and a bullet should fly through the hearts of the twenty men, the blood
flowing forth would, through analysis, prove itself to be the same blood in every instance.
In other words, the science of the day confirming the truth of my text that "God hath made
of one blood all nations of men."

I have thought, my friends, it might be profitable this morning if I gave you some of the moral
and religious impressions which I received when, through your indulgence, I had transatlantic
absence. First, I observe that the majority of people in all lands are in a mighty struggle
for bread. While in nearly all lands there are only a few cases of actual starvation reported,
there is a vast population in every country I visited who have a limited supply of food, or
such food as is incompetent to sustain physical vigor. This struggle in some lands is becoming
more agonizing, while here and there it is lightened. I have joy in reporting that Ireland,
about the sufferings of which we have heard so much, has far better prospects than I have seen
there in previous visits. In 1879, coming home from that land, I prophesied the famine that
must come upon, and did come upon, the deluged fields of that country. This year the crops
are large, and both parties--those who like the English Government and those who don't like
it--are expecting relief. I said to one of the intelligent men of Ireland: "Tell me in a few
words what are the sufferings of Ireland, and what is the Land Relief enactment?" He replied:
"I will tell you. Suppose I am a landlord and you a tenant. You rent from me a place for ten
pounds a year. You improve it. You turn it from a bog into a garden. You put a house upon it.
After a while I, the landlord, come around, and I say to my agent: 'How much rent is this man
paying;' He answers, 'Ten pounds.' 'Is that all? Put his rent up to twenty pounds.' The tenant
goes on improving his property, and after awhile I come around and I say to my agent, 'How
much rent is this man paying?' He says, 'Twenty pounds.' 'Put his rent up to twenty-five pounds.'
The tenant protests and says, 'I can't pay it.' Then I, the landlord, say, 'Pay it or get out;'
and the tenant is helpless, and, leaving the place, the property in its improved condition
turns over to the landlord. Now, to stop that outrage the Relief Enactment comes in and appoints
commissioners who shall see that if the tenant is turned out, he shall receive the difference
of value between the farm as he got it and the farm as he surrenders it. Moreover, the government
loans money to the tenant, so that he may buy the property out and out if the landlord will
sell." Mighty advancement toward the righting of a great wrong! But there and in all lands,
not excepting our own, there is a far-reaching distress. And let those who broke their fast
this morning, and those who shall dine to-day, remember those who are in want, and by prayer
and practical beneficence do all they can to alleviate the hunger swoon of nations.

Another impression was--indeed the impression carried with me all the summer--the thought already
suggested, the brotherhood of man. The fact is that the differences are so small between nations
that they may be said to be all alike. Though I spent the most of the summer in silence, I
spoke a few times and to people of different nations, and how soon I noticed that they were
very much alike! If a man knows how to play the piano, it does not make any difference whether
he finds it in New Orleans or San Francisco or Boston or St. Petersburg or Moscow or Madras;
it has so many keys, and he puts his fingers right on them. And the human heart is a divine
instrument, with just so many keys in all cases, and you strike some of them and there is joy,
and you strike some of them and there is sorrow. Plied by the same motives, lifted up by the
same success, depressed by the same griefs. The cab-men of London have the same characteristics
as the cab-men of New York, and are just as modest and retiring. The gold and silver drive
Piccadilly and the Boulevards just as they drive Wall Street. If there be a great political
excitement in Europe, the Bourse in Paris howls just as loudly as ever did the American gold-room.

The same grief that we saw in our country in 1864 you may find now in the military hospitals
of England containing the wounded and sick from the Egyptian wars. The same widowhood and orphanage
that sat down in despair after the battles of Shiloh and South Mountain poured their grief
in the Shannon and the Clyde and the Dee and the Thames. Oh, ye men and women who know how
to pray, never get up from your knees until you have implored God in behalf of the fourteen
hundred millions of the race just like yourselves, finding life a tremendous struggle! For
who knows but that as the sun to-day draws up drops of water from the Caspian and the Black
seas and from the Amazon and the Mississippi, after a while to distill the rain, these very
drops on the fields--who knows but that the sun of righteousness may draw up the tears of your
sympathy, and then rain them down in distillation of comfort o'er all the world?

Who is that poor man, carried on a stretcher to the Afghan ambulance? He is your brother. If
in the Pantheon at Paris you smite your hand against the wall among the tombs of the dead,
you will hear a very strange echo coming from all parts of the Pantheon just as soon as you
smite the wall. And I suppose it is so arranged that every stroke of sorrow among the tombs
of bereavement ought to have loud, long, and oft-repeated echoes of sympathy all around the
world. Oh, what a beautiful theory it is--and it is a Christian theory--that Englishman, Scotchman,
Irishman, Norwegian, Frenchman, Italian, Russian, are all akin. Of one blood all nations. That
is a very beautiful inscription that I saw a few days ago over the door in Edinburgh, the door
of the house where John Knox used to live. It is getting somewhat dim now, but there is the
inscription, fit for the door of any household--"Love God above all, and your neighbor as yourself."

I was also impressed in journeying on the other side the sea with the difference the Bible
makes in countries. The two nations of Europe that are the most moral to-day and that have
the least crime are Scotland and Wales. They have by statistics, as you might find, fewer thefts,
fewer arsons, fewer murders. What is the reason? A bad book can hardly live in Wales. The Bible
crowds it out. I was told by one of the first literary men in Wales: "There is not a bad book
in the Welsh language." He said: "Bad books come down from London, but they can not live here."
It is the Bible that is dominant in Wales. And then in Scotland just open your Bible to give
out your text, and there is a rustling all over the house almost startling to an American.
What is it? The people opening their Bibles to find the text, looking at the context, picking
out the referenced passages, seeing whether you make right quotation. Scotland and Wales Bible-reading
people. That accounts for it. A man, a city, a nation that reads God's Word must be virtuous.
That Book is the foe of all wrong-doing. What makes Edinburgh better than Constantinople? The
Bible.

Oh, I am afraid in America we are allowing the good book to be covered up with other good books!
We have our ever-welcome morning and evening newspapers, and we have our good books on all
subjects--geological subjects, botanical subjects, physiological subjects, theological subjects--good
books, beautiful books, and so many good books that we have not time to read the Bible. Oh,
my friends, it is not a matter of very great importance that you have a family Bible on the
center-table in your parlor! Better have one pocket New Testament, the passages marked, the
leaves turned down, the binding worn smooth with much usage, than fifty pictorial family Bibles
too handsome to read! Oh, let us take a whisk-broom and brush the dust off our Bibles! Do you
want poetry? Go and hear Job describe the war-horse, or David tell how the mountains skipped
like lambs. Do you want logic? Go and hear Paul reason until your brain aches under the spell
of his mighty intellect. Do you want history? Go and see Moses put into a few pages stupendous
information which Herodotus, Thucydides, and Prescott never preached after. And, above all,
if you want to find how a nation struck down by sin can rise to happiness and to heaven, read
of that blood which can wash away the pollution of a world.

I was also impressed in my transatlantic journeys with the wonderful power that Christ holds
among the nations. The great name in Europe to-day is not Victoria, not Marquis of Salisbury,
not William the Emperor, not Bismarck; the great name in Europe to-day is Christ. You find
the crucifix on the gate-post, you find it in the hay field, you find it at the entrance of
the manor, you find it by the side of the road.

The greatest pictures in all the galleries of Italy, Germany, France, England, and Scotland
are Bible pictures. What were the subjects of Raphael's great paintings? "The Transfiguration,"
"The Miraculous Draught of Fishes," "The Charge to Peter," "The Holy Family," "The Massacre
of the Innocents," "Moses at the Burning Bush," "The Nativity," "Michael the Archangel," and
the four or five exquisite "Madonnas." What are Tintoretto's great pictures? "Fall of Adam,"
"Cain and Abel," "The Plague of the Fiery Serpent," "Paradise," "Agony in the Garden," "The
Temptation," "The Adoration of the Magi," "The Communication," "Baptism," "Massacre of the
Innocents," "The Flight into Egypt," "The Crucifixion," "The Madonna." What are Titian's great
pictures? "The Flagellation of Christ," "The Supper at Emmaus," "The Death of Abel," "The Assumption,"
"The Entombment," "Faith," "The Madonna." What are Michael Angelo's great pictures? "The Annunciation,"
"The Spirits in Prison," "At the feet of Christ," "The Infant Christ," "The Crucifixion," "The
Last Judgment." What are Paul Veronese's great pictures? "Queen of Sheba," "The Marriage in
Cana," "Magdalen Washing the Feet of Christ," "The Holy Family." Who has not heard of Da Vinci's
"Last Supper"? Who has not heard of Turner's "Pools of Solomon"? Who has not heard of Claude's
"Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca"? Who has not heard of Dürer's "Dragon of the Apocalypse"? The
mightiest picture on this planet is Rubens' "Scourging of Christ." Painter's pencil loves to
sketch the face of Christ. Sculptor's chisel loves to present the form of Christ. Organs love
to roll forth the sorrows of Christ.

The first time you go to London go into the Doré picture gallery. As I went and sat down before
"Christ Descending the Steps of the Prætorium," at the first I was disappointed. I said: "There
isn't enough majesty in that countenance, not enough tenderness in that eye;" but as I sat
and looked at the picture it grew upon me until I was overwhelmed with its power, and I staggered
with emotion as I went out into the fresh air, and said; "Oh, for that Christ I must live,
and for that Christ I must be willing to die!" Make that Christ your personal friend, my sister,
my brother. You may never go to Milan to see Da Vinci's "Last Supper;" but, better than that,
you can have Christ come and sup with you. You may never get to Antwerp to see Rubens' "Descent
of Christ from the Cross," but you can have Christ come down from the mountain of His suffering
into your heart and abide there forever. Oh, you must have Him! We are all so diseased with
sin that we want that which hurts us, and we won't have that which cures us. The best thing
for you and for me to do to-day is to get down on our bended knees before God and say: "Oh,
Almighty Son of God, I am blind! I want to see. My arms are palsied. I want to take hold of
thy cross. Have mercy on me, O Lord Jesus!" Why will you live on husks when you may sit down
to this white bread of heaven? Oh, with such a God, and with such a Christ, and with such a
Holy Spirit, and with such an immortal nature, wake up!

Once more, I was impressed greatly on the other side the sea with the wonderful triumphs of
the Christian religion. The tide is rising, the tide of moral and spiritual prosperity in the
world. I think that any man who keeps his eyes open, traveling in foreign lands, will come
to that conclusion. More Bibles than ever before, more churches, more consecrated men and women,
more people ready to be martyrs now than ever before, if need be; so that instead of there
being, as people sometimes say, less spirit of martyrdom now than ever before, I believe where
there was once one martyr there would be a thousand martyrs if the fires were kindled--men
ready to go through flood and fire for Christ's sake. Oh, the signs are promising! The world
is on the way to millennial brightness. All art, all invention, all literature, all commerce
will be the Lord's.

These ships that you see going up and down New York harbor are to be brought into the service
of God. All those ships I saw at Liverpool, at Southampton, at Glasgow, are to be brought into
the service of Christ. What is that passage, "Ships of Tarshish shall bring presents"? That
is what it means. Oh, what a goodly fleet when the vessels of the sea come into the service
of God! No guns frowning through the port-holes, no pikes hung in the gangway, nothing from
cut-water to taffrail to suggest atrocity. Those ships will come from all parts of the seas.
Great flocks of ships that never met on the high sea but in wrath, will cry, "Ship ahoy!" and
drop down beside each other in calmness, the flags of Emmanuel streaming from the top-gallants.
The old slaver, with decks scrubbed and washed and glistened and burnished--the old slaver
will wheel into line; and the Chinese junk and the Venetian gondola, and the miners' and the
pirates' corvette, will fall into line, equipped, readorned, beautified, only the small craft
of this grand flotilla which shall float out for the truth--a flotilla mightier than the armada
of Xerxes moving in the pomp and pride of Persian insolence; mightier than the Carthaginian
navy rushing with forty thousand oarsmen upon the Roman galleys, the life of nations dashed
out against the gunwales.

Rise, O sea! and shine, O heavens! to greet this squadron of light and victory! On the glistening
decks are the feet of them that bring good tidings, and songs of heaven float among the rigging.
Crowd on all the canvas. Line-of-battle ship and merchantmen wheel into the way. It is noon.
Strike eight bells. From all the squadron the sailors' songs arise. "Surely the isles shall
wait for thee, and the ships of Tarshish to bring thy sons from afar, their silver and their
gold with them, to the name of the Lord thy God, and the Holy One of Israel."

A MOMENTOUS QUEST.

    "Seek ye the Lord while he may be found."--ISA. lv: 6.

Isaiah stands head and shoulders above the other Old Testament authors in vivid descriptiveness
of Christ. Other prophets give an outline of our Saviour's features. Some of them present,
as it were, the side face of Christ; others a bust of Christ; but Isaiah gives us the full-length
portrait of Christ. Other Scripture writers excel in some things. Ezekiel more weird, David
more pathetic, Solomon more epigrammatic, Habakkuk more sublime; but when you want to see Christ
coming out from the gates of prophecy in all His grandeur and glory, you involuntarily turn
to Isaiah. So that if the prophecies in regard to Christ might be called the "Oratorio of the
Messiah," the writing of Isaiah is the "Hallelujah Chorus," where all the batons wave and all
the trumpets come in. Isaiah was not a man picked up out of insignificance by inspiration.
He was known and honored. Josephus, and Philo, and Sirach extolled him in their writings. What
Paul was among the apostles, Isaiah was among the prophets.

My text finds him standing on a mountain of inspiration, looking out into the future, beholding
Christ advancing and anxious that all men might know Him; his voice rings down the ages: "Seek
ye the Lord while He may be found." "Oh," says some one: "that was for olden times." No, my
hearer. If you have traveled in other lands you have taken a circular letter of credit from
some banking-house in New York, and in St. Petersburg, or Venice, or Rome, or Antwerp, or Brussels,
or Paris; you presented that letter and got financial help immediately. And I want you to understand
that the text, instead of being appropriate for one age, or for one land, is a circular letter
for all ages and for all lands, and wherever it is presented for help, the help comes: "Seek
ye the Lord while He may be found."

I come, to-day, with no hair-spun theories of religion, with no nice distinctions, with no
elaborate disquisition; but with a plain talk on the matters of personal religion. I feel that
the sermon I preach this morning will be the savor of life unto life, or of death unto death.
In other words, the Gospel of Christ is a powerful medicine: it either kills or cures. There
are those who say: "I would like to become a Christian, I have been waiting a good while for
the right kind of influences to come;" and still you are waiting. You are wiser in worldly
things than you are in religious things. If you want to get to Albany, you go to the Grand
Central Depot, or to the steam-boat wharf, and, having got your ticket, you do not sit down
on the wharf or sit in the depot; you get aboard the boat or train. And yet there are men who
say they are waiting to get to heaven--waiting, waiting, but not with intelligent waiting,
or they would get on board the line of Christian influences that would bear them into the kingdom
of God.

Now you know very well that to seek a thing is to search for it with earnest endeavor. If you
want to see a certain man in New York, and there is a matter of $10,000 connected with your
seeing him, and you can not at first find him, you do not give up the search. You look in the
directory, but can not find the name; you go in circles where you think, perhaps, he may mingle,
and, having found the part of the city where he lives, but perhaps not knowing the street,
you go through street after street, and from block to block, and you keep on searching for
weeks and for months.

You say: "It is a matter of $10,000 whether I see him or not." Oh, that men were as persistent
in seeking for Christ! Had you one half that persistence you would long ago have found Him
who is the joy of the forgiven spirit. We may pay our debts, we may attend church, we may relieve
the poor, we may be public benefactors, and yet all our life disobey the text, never seek God,
never gain heaven. Oh, that the Spirit of God would help this morning while I try to show you,
in carrying out the idea of my text, first, how to seek the Lord, and in the next place, when
to seek Him. "Seek ye the Lord while He may be found."

I remark, in the first place, you are to seek the Lord through earnest and believing prayer.
God is not an autocrat or a despot seated on a throne, with His arms resting on brazen lions,
and a sentinel pacing up and down at the foot of the throne. God is a father seated in a bower,
waiting for His children to come and climb on His knee, and get His kiss and His benediction.
Prayer is the cup with which we go to the "fountain of living water," and dip up refreshment
for our thirsty soul. Grace does not come to the heart as we set a cask at the corner of the
house to catch the rain in the shower. It is a pulley fastened to the throne of God, which
we pull, bringing the blessing.

I do not care so much what posture you take in prayer, nor how large an amount of voice you
use. You might get down on your face before God, if you did not pray right inwardly, and there
would be no response. You might cry at the top of your voice, and unless you had a believing
spirit within, your cry would not go further up than the shout of a plow-boy to his oxen. Prayer
must be believing, earnest, loving. You are in your house some summer day, and a shower comes
up, and a bird, affrighted, darts into the window, and wheels about the room. You seize it.
You smooth its ruffled plumage. You feel its fluttering heart. You say, "Poor thing, poor thing!"
Now, a prayer goes out of the storm of this world into the window of God's mercy, and He catches
it, and He feels its fluttering pulse, and He puts it in His own bosom of affection and safety.
Prayer is a warm, ardent, pulsating exercise. It is the electric battery which, touched, thrills
to the throne of God! It is the diving-bell in which we go down into the depths of God's mercy
and bring up "pearls of great price." There was an instance where prayer made the waves of
the Gennesaret solid as Russ pavement. Oh, how many wonderful things prayer has accomplished!
Have you ever tried it? In the days when the Scotch Covenanters were persecuted, and the enemies
were after them, one of the head men among the Covenanters prayed: "Oh, Lord, we be as dead
men unless Thou shalt help us! Oh, Lord, throw the lap of Thy cloak over these poor things!"
And instantly a Scotch mist enveloped and hid the persecuted from their persecutors--the promise
literally fulfilled: "While they are yet speaking I will hear."

Oh, impenitent soul, have you ever tried the power of prayer? God says: "He is loving, and
faithful, and patient." Do you believe that? You are told that Christ came to save sinners.
Do you believe that? You are told that all you have to do to get the pardon of the Gospel is
to ask for it. Do you believe that? Then come to Him and say: "Oh, Lord! I know Thou canst
not lie. Thou hast told me to come for pardon, and I could get it. I come, Lord. Keep Thy promise,
and liberate my captive soul."

Oh, that you might have an altar in the parlor, in the kitchen, in the store, in the barn,
for Christ will be willing to come again to the manger to hear prayer. He would come in your
place of business, as He confronted Matthew, the tax commissioner. If a measure should come
before Congress that you thought would ruin the nation, how you would send in petitions and
remonstrances! And yet there has been enough sin in your heart to ruin it forever, and you
have never remonstrated or petitioned against it. If your physical health failed, and you had
the means, you would go and spend the summer in Germany, and the winter in Italy, and you would
think it a very cheap outlay if you had to go all round the earth to get back your physical
health. Have you made any effort, any expenditure, any exertion for your immortal and spiritual
health? No, you have not taken one step.

O that you might now begin to seek after God with earnest prayer. Some of you have been working
for years and years for the support of your families. Have you given one half day to the working
out of your salvation with fear and trembling? You came here this morning with an earnest purpose,
I take it, as I have come hither with an earnest purpose, and we meet face to face, and I tell
you, first of all, if you want to find the Lord, you must pray, and pray, and pray.

I remark again, you must seek the Lord through Bible study. The Bible is the newest book in
the world. "Oh," you say, "it was made hundreds of years ago, and the learned men of King James
translated it hundreds of years ago." I confute that idea by telling you it is not five minutes
old, when God, by His blessed Spirit, retranslates it into the heart. If you will, in the seeking
of the way of life through Scripture study, implore God's light to fall upon the page, you
will find that these promises are not one second old, and that they drop straight from the
throne of God into your heart.

There are many people to whom the Bible does not amount to much. If they merely look at the
outside beauty, why it will no more lead them to Christ than Washington's farewell address
or the Koran of Mohammed or the Shaster of the Hindoos. It is the inward light of God's Word
you must get or die. I went up to the church of the Madeleine, in Paris, and looked at the
doors which were the most wonderfully constructed I ever saw, and I could have stayed there
for a whole week; but I had only a little time, so, having glanced at the wonderful carving
on the doors, I passed in and looked at the radiant altars, and the sculptured dome. Alas,
that so many stop at the outside door of God's Holy Word, looking at the rhetorical beauties,
instead of going in and looking at the altars of sacrifice and the dome of God's mercy and
salvation that hovers over penitent and believing souls!

O my friends! if you merely want to study the laws of language, do not go to the Bible. It
was not made for that. Take "Howe's Elements of Criticism"--it will be better than the Bible
for that. If you want to study metaphysics, better than the Bible will be the writings of William
Hamilton. But if you want to know how to have sin pardoned, and at last to gain the blessedness
of Heaven, search the Scriptures, "for in them ye have eternal life."

When people are anxious about their souls--and there are some such here to-day--there are those
who recommend good books. That is all right. But I want to tell you that the Bible is the best
book under such circumstances. Baxter wrote "A Call to the Unconverted," but the Bible is the
best call to the unconverted. Philip Doddridge wrote "The Rise and Progress of Religion in
the Soul," but the Bible is the best rise and progress. John Angell James wrote "Advice to
the Anxious Inquirer," but the Bible is the best advice to the anxious inquirer.

O, the Bible is the very book you need, anxious and inquiring soul! A dying soldier said to
his mate: "Comrade, give me a drop!" The comrade shook up the canteen, and said: "There isn't
a drop of water in the canteen." "Oh," said the dying soldier, "that's not what I want; feel
in my knapsack for my Bible," and his comrade found the Bible, and read him a few of the gracious
promises, and the dying soldier said: "Ah, that's what I want. There isn't anything like the
Bible for a dying soldier, is there, my comrade?" O blessed book while we live! Blessed book
when we die!

I remark, again, we must seek God through church ordinances. "What," say you, "can't a man
be saved without going to church?" I reply, there are men, I suppose, in glory, who have never
seen a church: but the church is the ordained means by which we are to be brought to God; and
if truth affects us when we are alone, it affects us more mightily when we are in the assembly--the
feelings of others emphasizing our own feelings. The great law of sympathy comes into play,
and a truth that would take hold only with the grasp of a sick man, beats mightily against
the soul with a thousand heart-throbs.

When you come into the religious circle, come only with one notion, and only for one purpose--to
find the way to Christ. When I see people critical about sermons, and critical about tones
of voice, and critical about sermonic delivery, they make me think of a man in prison. He is
condemned to death, but an officer of the government brings a pardon and puts it through the
wicket of the prison, and says: "Here is your pardon. Come and get it." "What! Do you expect
me to take that pardon offered with such a voice as you have, with such an awkward manner as
you have? I would rather die than so compromise my rhetorical notions!" Ah, the man does not
say that; he takes it! It is his life. He does not care how it is handed to him. And if, this
morning, that pardon from the throne of God is offered to our souls, should we not seize it,
regardless of all criticism, feeling that it is a matter of heaven or hell?

But I come now to the last part of my text. It tells us when we are to seek the Lord. "While
He may be found." When is that? Old age? You may not see old age. To-morrow? You may not see
to-morrow. To-night? You may not see to-night. Now! O if I could only write on every heart
in three capital letters, that word N-O-W--Now!

Sin is an awful disease. I hear people say with a toss of the head and with a trivial manner:
"Oh, yes, I'm a sinner." Sin is an awful disease. It is leprosy. It is dropsy. It is consumption.
It is all moral disorders in one. Now you know there is a crisis in a disease. Perhaps you
have had some illustration of it in your family. Sometimes the physician has called, and he
has looked at the patient and said: "That case was simple enough; but the crisis has passed.
If you had called me yesterday, or this morning, I could have cured the patient. It is too
late now; the crisis has passed." Just so it is in the spiritual treatment of the soul--there
is a crisis. Before that, life! After that, death! O my dear brother, as you love your soul
do not let the crisis pass unattended to!

There are some here who can remember instances in life when, if they had bought a certain property,
they would have become very rich. A few acres that would have cost them almost nothing were
offered them. They refused them. Afterward a large village or city sprung up on those acres
of ground, and they see what a mistake they made in not buying the property. There was an opportunity
of getting it. It never came back again. And so it is in regard to a man's spiritual and eternal
fortune. There is a chance; if you let that go, perhaps it never comes back. Certainly, that
one never comes back.

A gentleman told me that at the battle of Gettysburg he stood upon a height looking off upon
the conflicting armies. He said it was the most exciting moment of his life; now one army seeming
to triumph, and now the other. After awhile the host wheeled in such a way that he knew in
five minutes the whole question would be decided. He said the emotion was almost unbearable.
There is just such a time to-day with you, O impenitent soul!--the forces of light on the one
side, and the siege-guns of hell on the other side, and in a few moments the matter will be
settled for eternity.

There is a time which mercy has set for leaving port. If you are on board before that, you
will get a passage for heaven. If you are not on board, you miss your passage for heaven. As
in law courts a case is sometimes adjourned from term to term, and from year to year till the
bill of costs eats up the entire estate, so there are men who are adjourning the matter of
religion from time to time, and from year to year, until heavenly bliss is the bill of costs
the man will have to pay for it.

Why defer this matter, oh, my dear hearer? Have you any idea that sin will wear out? that it
will evaporate? that it will relax its grasp? that you may find religion as a man accidentally
finds a lost pocket-book? Ah, no! No man ever became a Christian by accident, or by the relaxing
of sin. The embarrassments are all the time increasing. The hosts of darkness are recruiting,
and the longer you postpone this matter the steeper the path will become. I ask those men who
are before me this morning, whether, in the ten or fifteen years they have passed in the postponement
of these matters, they have come any nearer God or heaven?

I would not be afraid to challenge this whole audience, so far as they may not have found the
peace of the Gospel, in regard to the matter. Your hearts, you are willing frankly to tell
me, are becoming harder and harder, and that if you come to Christ it will be more of an undertaking
now than it ever would have been before. Oh, fly for refuge! The avenger of blood is on the
track! The throne of judgment will soon be set; and, if you have anything to do toward your
eternal salvation, you had better do it now, for the redemption of your soul is precious, and
it ceaseth forever!

Oh, if men could only catch just one glimpse of Christ, I know they would love Him! Your heart
leaps at the sight of a glorious sunrise or sunset. Can you be without emotion as the Sun of
Righteousness rises behind Calvary, and sets behind Joseph's sepulcher? He is a blessed Saviour!
Every nation has its type of beauty. There is German beauty, and Swiss beauty, and Italian
beauty, and English beauty; but I care not in what land a man first looks at Christ, he pronounces
Him "chief among ten thousand, and the One altogether lovely." O my blessed Jesus! Light in
darkness! The Rock on which I build! The Captain of Salvation! My joy! My strength! How strange
it is that men can not love Thee!

The diamond districts of Brazil are carefully guarded, and a man does not get in there except
by a pass from the government; but the love of Christ is a diamond district we may all enter,
and pick up treasures for eternity. Oh, cry for mercy! "To-day, if ye will hear His voice,
harden not your hearts." There is a way of opposing the mercy of God too long, and then there
remaineth no more sacrifice for sin, but a fearful looking for judgment and fiery indignation,
which shall devour the adversary. My friends, my neighbors, what can I say to induce you to
attend to this matter--to attend to it now? Time is flying, flying--the city clock joining
my voice this moment, seeming to say to you, "Now is the time! Now is the time!" Oh, put it
not off!

Why should I stand here and plead, and you sit there? It is your immortal soul. It is a soul
that shall never die. It is a soul that must soon appear before God for review. Why throw away
your chance for heaven? Why plunge off into darkness when all the gates of glory are open?
Why become a castaway from God when you can sit upon the throne? Why will ye die miserably
when eternal life is offered you, and it will cost you nothing but just willingness to accept
it? "Come, for all things are now ready." Come, Christ is ready, pardon is ready! The Church
is ready. Heaven is ready. You will never find a more convenient season, if you should live
fifty years more, than this very one. Reject this, and you may die in your sins. Why do I say
this? Is it to frighten your soul? Oh, no! It is to persuade you. I show you the peril. I show
you the escape. Would I not be a coward beyond all excuse, if, believing that this great audience
must soon be launched into the eternal world, and that all who believe in Christ shall be saved,
and that all who reject Christ will be lost--would I not be the veriest coward on earth to
hide that truth or to stand before you with a cold, or even a placid manner? My dear brethren,
now is the day of your redemption.

It is very certain that you and I must soon appear before God in judgment. We can not escape
it. The Bible says: "Every eye shall see Him, and they also which pierced Him, and all the
kindreds of the earth shall wail because of Him." On that day all our advantages will come
up for our glory or for our discomfiture--every prayer, every sermon, every exhortatory remark,
every reproof, every call of grace; and while the heavens are rolling away like a scroll, and
the world is being destroyed, your destiny and my destiny will be announced. Alas! alas! if
on that day it is found that we have neglected these matters. We may throw them off now. We
can not then. We will all be in earnest then. But no pardon then. No offer of salvation then.
No rescue then. Driven away in our wickedness--banished, exiled, forever!

Have you ever imagined what will be the soliloquy of the soul on that day unpardoned, as it
looks back upon its past life? "Oh," says the soul, "I had glorious Sabbaths! There was one
Sabbath in autumn when I was invited to Christ. There was a Sabbath morning when Jesus stood
and spread out His arm and invited me to His holy heart. I refused Him. I have destroyed myself.
I have no one else to blame. Ruin complete! Darkness unpitying, deep, eternal! I am lost! Notwithstanding
all the opportunities I have had of being saved, I am lost! O Thou long-suffering Lord God
Almighty, I am lost! O day of judgment, I am lost! O father, mother, brother, sister, child
in glory, I am lost!" And then as the tide goes out, your soul goes out with it--further from
God, further from happiness, and I hear your voice fainter, and fainter, and fainter: "Lost!
Lost! Lost! Lost! Lost!" O ye dying, yet immortal men, "seek the Lord while He may be found."

But I want you to take the hint of the text that I have no time to dwell on--the hint that
there is a time when He can not be found. There is a man in New York, eighty years of age,
who said to a clergyman who came in, "Do you think that a man at eighty years of age can get
pardoned?" "Oh, yes," said the clergyman. The old man said: "I can't; when I was twenty years
of age--I am now eighty years--the Spirit of God came to my soul, and I felt the importance
of attending to these things, but I put it off. I rejected God, and since then I have had no
feeling." "Well," said the minister, "wouldn't you like to have me pray with you?" "Yes," replied
the old man, "but it will do no good. You can pray with me if you like to." The minister knelt
down and prayed, and commended the man's soul to God. It seemed to have no effect upon him.
After awhile the last hour of the man's life came, and through his delirium a spark of intelligence
seemed to flash, and with his last breath he said; "I shall never be forgiven!" "O seek the
Lord while He may be found."

THE GREAT ASSIZE.

DOCTOR TALMAGE'S SERMON, PREACHED AT CORK, IRELAND, SUNDAY MORNING, SEPT 6th, 1885.

Half-way between Chamouny, Switzerland, and Martigny, I reined in the horse on which I was
riding, and looked off upon the most wonderful natural amphitheater of valley and mountain
and rock, and I said to my companion, "What an appropriate place this would be for the last
judgment. Yonder overhanging rock the place for the judgment seat. These galleries of surrounding
hills occupied by attendant angels. This vast valley, sweeping miles this way and miles that,
the audience-room for all nations." But sacred geography does not point out the place. Yet
we know that somewhere, some time, somehow, an audience will be gathered together stupendous
beyond all statistics, and just as certainly as you and I make up a part of this audience to-day,
we will make up a part of that audience on that day.

A common sense of justice in every man's heart demands that there shall be some great winding-up
day, in which that which is now inexplicable shall be explained.

Why did that good man suffer, and that bad man prosper? You say, "I don't know, but I must
know." Why is that good Christian woman dying of what is called a spider cancer, while that
daughter of folly sits wrapped in luxury, ease, and health? You say, "I don't know, but I must
know." There are so many wrongs to be righted that if there were not some great righting-up
day in the presence of all ages, there would be an outcry against God from which His glory
would never recover. If God did not at last try the nations, the nations would try Him. We
are, therefore, ready for the announcement of the text. The world never saw Christ except in
disguise. If once when He was on earth He had let out His glory, instead of the blind eyes
being healed, all visions would have been extinguished. No human eye could have endured it.
And instead of bringing the dead to life, all around about him would have been the slain under
that overpowering effulgence. Disguise of human flesh. Disguise of seamless robe. Disguise
of sandal. Disguise of voice. From Bethlehem caravansary to mausoleum in the rock, a complete
disguise.

But on the day of which I speak the Son of Man will come in His glory. No hiding of luster.
No sheathing of strength. No suppression of grandeur. No wrapping out of sight of the Godhead.
Any fifty of the most brilliant sunsets that you ever saw on land or sea would be dim as compared
with the cerulean appearance on that day when Christ rolls through, and rolls on, and rolls
down in His glory. The air will be all abloom with His presence, and everything from horizon
to horizon aflame with His splendor.

Elijah rode up the sky-steep in a chariot, the wheels of whirling fire and the horses of galloping
fire, and the charioteer drawing reins of fire on bits of fire; but Christ will need no such
equipage, for the law of gravitation will be laid aside, and the natural elements will be laid
aside, and Christ will descend swiftly enough to make speedy arrival, but slowly enough to
allow the gaze of millions of spectators. In his glory! Glory of form, glory of omnipotence,
glory of holiness, glory of justice, glory of love. In His glory! An unveiled, an uncovered
God descending to meet the human race in an interview which will be prolonged only for a few
hours, and yet which shall settle all the past and all the present and all the future, and
be closed before the end of that day, which will close, not with setting sun, but with the
destruction of the planet as a snuffers takes off the top of a burned wick.

It is a solemn time in a court-room when there is an important case on hand, and the judge
of the Supreme Court enters, and he sits down, and with gavel strikes on the desk commanding
bar and jury and witnesses and audience into silence. All voices are hushed, all heads are
uncovered. But how much more impressive when Christ shall take the judgment seat on the last
day of the last week of the last month of the last year of the world's existence, and with
gavel of thunder-bolt shall smite the mountains, commanding all the land and all the sea into
silence.

Can you have any doubt about who it is on the seat on the judgment day? Better make investigation,
to see whether there are any scars about Him that reveal His person. Apparel may change. You
can not always tell by apparel. But scars will tell the story after all else fails. I find
under His left arm a scar, and on His right hand a scar, and on His left hand a scar, and on
His right foot a scar, and on His left foot a scar. Oh, yes, He is the Son of Man in His glory.
Every mark of wound now a badge of victory, every ridge showing the fearful gash now telling
the story of pain and sacrifice which He suffered in behalf of the human race.

But what is all that commotion and flutter, and surging to and fro above Him and on either
side of Him? It is a detailed regiment of heaven, a constabulary angelic, sent forth to take
part in that scene, and to execute the mandates that shall be issued. Ten regiments, a hundred
regiments, a thousand regiments of angels; for on that day all heaven will be emptied of its
inhabitants to let them attend the scene. All the holy angels. From what a center to what a
circumference. Widening out and widening out, and higher up and higher up. Wings interlocking
wings. Galleries of cloud above galleries of cloud, all filled with the faces of angels come
to listen and come to watch, and come to help on that day for which all other days were made.
Who are those two taller and more conspicuous angels? The one is Michael, who is the commander
of all those who come out to destroy sin. The other is Gabriel, who is announced as commander
of all those who come forth to help the righteous. Who is that mighty angel near the throne?
That is the resurrection angel, his lips still aquiver and his cheek aflush with the blast
that shattered the cemeteries and woke the dead. Who is that other great angel, with dark and
overshadowing brow? That is the one who in one night, by one flap of his wing, turned one hundred
and eighty-five thousand of Sennacherib's host into corpses.

Who are those bright immortals near the throne, their faces partly turned toward each other
as though about to sing? Oh, they are the Bethlehem chanters of the first Christmas night!
Who are this other group standing so near the throne? They are the Saviour's especial bodyguard,
which hovered over Him in the wilderness and administered to Him in the hour of martyrdom,
and heaved away the rock of His sarcophagus, and escorted Him upward on Ascension Day, now
appropriately escorting Him down. Divine glory flanked on both sides by angelic radiance.

But now lower your eye from the divine and angelic to the human. The entire human race is present.
All nations, says my text. Before that time the American Republic, the English Government,
the French Republic, all modern modes of government may be obliterated for something better;
but all nations, whether dead or alive, will be brought up into that assembly. Thebes and Tyre
and Babylon and Greece and Rome as wide awake in that assembly as though they had never slumbered
amid the dead nations. Europe, Asia, Africa, North and South America, and all the nineteenth
century, the eighteenth century, the twelfth century, the tenth century, the fourth century--all
centuries present. Not one being that ever drew the breath of life but will be in that assembly.

No other audience a thousandth part as large. No other audience a millionth part as large.
No human eye could look across it. Wing of albatross and falcon and eagle not strong enough
to fly over it. A congregation, I verily believe, not assembled on any continent, because no
continent would be large enough to hold it. But, as the Bible intimates, in the air. The law
of gravitation unanchored, the world moved out of its place. As now sometimes on earth a great
tent is spread for some great convention, so over that great audience of the judgment shall
be lifted the blue canopy of the sky, and underneath it for floor the air made buoyant by the
hand of Almighty God. An architecture of atmospheric galleries strong enough to hold up worlds.
Surely the two arms of God's almightiness are two pillars strong enough to hold up any auditorium.

But that audience is not to remain in session long. Most audiences on earth after an hour or
two adjourn. Sometimes in court-rooms an audience will tarry four or five hours, but then it
adjourns. So this audience spoken of in the text will adjourn. My text says, "He will separate
them one from another as a shepherd divideth the sheep from the goats."

"No," says my Universalist friend, "let them all stay together." But the text says, "He shall
separate them." "No," say the kings of this world, "let men have their choice, and if they
prefer monarchical institutions, let them go together, and if they prefer republican institutions,
let them go together." "No," say the conventionalities of this world, "let all those who moved
in what are called high circles go together, and all those who on earth moved in low circles
go together. The rich together, the poor together, the wise together, the ignorant together."
Ah! no. Do you not notice in that assembly the king is without his scepter, and the soldier
without his uniform, and the bishop without his pontifical ring, and the millionaire without
his certificates of stock, and the convict without his chain, and the beggar without his rags,
and the illiterate without his bad orthography, and all of us without any distinction of earthly
inequality? So I take it from that as well as from my text that the mere accident of position
in this world will do nothing toward deciding the questions of that very great day.

"He will separate them as a shepherd divideth the sheep from the goats." The sheep, the cleanliest
of creatures, here made a symbol of those who have all their sins washed away in the fountain
of redeeming mercy. The goat, one of the filthiest of creatures, here a type of those who in
the last judgment will be found never to have had any divine ablution. Division according to
character. Not only character outside, but character inside. Character of heart, character
of choice, character of allegiance, character of affection, character inside as well as character
outside.

In many cases it will be a complete and immediate reversal of all earthly conditions. Some
who in this world wore patched apparel will take on raiment lustrous as a summer noon. Some
who occupied a palace will take a dungeon. Division regardless of all earthly caste, and some
who were down will be up, and some who were up will be down. Oh, what a shattering of conventionalities!
What an upheaval of all social rigidities, what a turning of the wheel of earthly condition,
a thousand revolutions in a second! Division of all nations, of all ages, not by the figure
9, nor the figure 8, nor the figure 7, nor the figure 6, nor the figure 5, nor the figure 4;
but by the figure 2.

Two! Two characters, two destinies, two estates, two dominions, two eternities, a tremendous,
an all-comprehensive, an all-decisive, and everlasting two!

I sometimes think that the figure of the book that shall be opened allows us to forget the
thing signified by the symbol. Where is the book-binder that could make a volume large enough
to contain the names of all the people who have ever lived? Besides that, the calling of such
a roll would take more than fifty years, more than a hundred years, and the judgment is to
be consummated in less time than passes between sunrise and sunset. Ah! my friends, the leaves
of that book of judgment are not made out of paper, but of memory. One leaf in every human
heart. You have known persons who were near drowning, but they were afterward resuscitated,
and they have told you that in the two or three minutes between the accident and the resuscitation,
all their past life flashed before them--all they had ever thought, all they had ever done,
all they had ever seen, in an instant came to them. The memory never loses anything. It is
only a folded leaf. It is only a closed book.

Though you be an octogenarian, though you be a nonagenarian, all the thoughts and acts of your
life are in your mind, whether you recall them now or not, just as Macaulay's history is in
two volumes, although the volumes may be closed, and you can not see a word of them, and will
not until they are opened. As in the case of the drowning man, the volume of memory was partly
open, or the leaf partly unrolled; in the case of the judgment the entire book will be opened,
so that everything will be displayed from preface to appendix.

You have seen self-registering instruments which recorded how many revolutions they had made
and what work they had done, so the manufacturer could come days after and look at the instrument
and find just how many revolutions had been made, or how much work had been accomplished. So
the human mind is a self-registering instrument, and it records all its past movements. Now
that leaf, that all-comprehensive leaf in your mind and mine this moment, the leaf of judgment,
brought out under the flash of the judgment throne, you can easily see how all the past of
our lives in an instant will be seen. And so great and so resplendent will be the light of
that throne that not only this leaf in my heart and that leaf in your heart will be revealed
at a flash, but all the leaves will be opened, and you will read not only your own character
and your own history, but the character and history of others.

In a military encampment the bugle sounded in one way means one thing, and sounded in another
way it means another thing. Bugle sounded in one way means, "Prepare for sudden attack." Bugle
sounded in another way means, "To your tents, and let all the lights be put out." I have to
tell you, my brother, that the trumpet of the Old Testament, the trumpet that was carried in
the armies of olden times, and the trumpet on the walls in olden times, in the last great day
will give significant reverberation. Old, worn-out, and exhausted Time, having marched across
decades and centuries and ages, will halt, and the sun and the moon and the stars will halt
with it. The trumpet! the trumpet!

Peal the first: Under its power the sea will stretch itself out dead, the white foam on the
lip, in its crystal sarcophagus, and the mountains will stagger and reel and stumble, and fall
into the valleys never to rise. Under one puff of that last cyclone all the candles of the
sky will be blown out. The trumpet! the trumpet!

Peal the second: The alabaster halls of the air will be filled with those who will throng up
from all the cemeteries of all the ages--from Greyfriar's Churchyard and Roman Catacomb, from
Westminster Abbey and from the coral crypts of oceanic cave, and some will rend off the bandage
of Egyptian mummy, and others will remove from their brow the garland of green sea-weed. From
the north and the south and the east and the west they come. The dead! The trumpet! the trumpet!

Peal the third: Amid surging clouds and the roar of attendant armies of heaven, the Lord comes
through, and there are lightnings and thunder-bolts, and an earthquake, and a hallelujah, and
a wailing. The trumpet! the trumpet!

Peal the fourth: All the records of human life will be revealed. The leaf containing the pardoned
sin, the leaf containing the unpardoned sin. Some clapping hands with joy, some grinding their
teeth with rage, and all the forgotten past becomes a vivid present. The trumpet! the trumpet!

Peal the last: The audience breaks up. The great trial is ended. The high court of heaven adjourns.
The audience hie themselves to their two termini. They rise, they rise! They sink, they sink!
Then the blue tent of the sky will be lifted and folded up and put away. Then the auditorium
of atmospheric galleries will be melted. Then the folded wings of attendant angels will be
spread for upward flight. The fiery throne of judgment will become a dim and a vanishing cloud.
The conflagration of divine and angelic magnificence will roll back and off. The day for which
all other days are made has closed, and the world has burned down, and the last cinder has
gone out, and an angel flying on errand from world to world will poise long enough over the
dead earth to chant the funeral litany as he cries, "Ashes to ashes!"

That judgment leaf in your heart I seize hold of this moment for cancellation. In your city
halls the great book of mortgages has a large margin, so that when the mortgagor has paid the
full amount to the mortgagee, the officer of the law comes, and he puts down on that margin
the payment and the cancellation; and though that mortgage demanded vast thousands before,
now it is null and void. So I have to tell you that that leaf in my heart and in your heart,
that leaf of judgment, that all-comprehensive leaf, has a wide margin for cancellation.

There is only one hand in all the universe that can touch that margin. That hand this moment
lifted to make the record null and void forever. It may be a trembling hand, for it is a wounded
hand, the nerves were cut and the muscles were lacerated. That record on that leaf was made
in the black ink of condemnation; but if cancellation take place, it will be made in the red
ink of sacrifice. O judgment-bound brother and sister! let Christ this moment bring to that
record complete and glorious cancellation. This moment, in an outburst of impassioned prayer,
ask for it. You think it is the fluttering of your heart. Oh, no! it is the fluttering of that
leaf, that judgment leaf.

I ask you not to take from your iron safe your last will and testament, but I ask for something
of more importance than that. I ask you not to take from your private papers that letter so
sacred that you have put it away from all human eyesight, but I ask you for something of more
meaning than that. That leaf, that judgment leaf in my heart, that judgment leaf in your heart,
which will decide our condition after this world shall have five thousand million years been
swept out the heavens, an extinct planet, and time itself will be so long past that on the
ocean of eternity it will seem only as now seems a ripple on the Atlantic.

When the goats in vile herd start for the barren mountains of death, and the sheep in fleeces
of snowy whiteness and bleating with joy move up the terraced hills to join the lambs already
playing in the high pastures of celestial altitude, oh, may you and I be close by the Shepherd's
crook!

Oh, that leaf, that one leaf in my heart, that one leaf in your heart! That leaf of judgment!
Oh, those two tremendous words at the last, "Come!" "Go!" As though the overhanging heavens
were the cup of a great bell, and all the stars were welded into a silvery tongue and swung
from side to side until it struck, "Come!" As though all the great guns of eternal disaster
were discharged at once, and they boomed forth in one resounding cannonade of "Go!" Arithmetical
sum in simple division. Eternity the dividend. The figure two the divisor. Your unalterable
destiny the quotient.

THE ROAD TO THE CITY.

There are hundreds of people in this house this morning who want to find the right road. You
sometimes see a person halting at cross roads, and you can tell by his looks that he wishes
to ask a question as to what direction he had better take. And I stand in your presence this
morning conscious of the fact that there are many of you here who realize that there are a
thousand wrong roads, but only one right one; and I take it for granted that you have come
in to ask which one it is. Here is one road that opens widely, but I have not much faith in
it. There are a great many expensive toll-gates scattered all along that way. Indeed at every
road you must pay in tears, or pay in genuflexions, or pay in flagellations. On that road,
if you get through it at all, you have to pay your own way; and since this differs so much
from what I have heard in regard to the right way, I believe it is the wrong way.

Here is another road. On either side of it are houses of sinful entertainment, and invitations
to come in, and dine and rest; but, from the looks of the people who stand on the piazza I
am very certain that it is the wrong house and the wrong way. Here is another road. It is very
beautiful and macadamized. The horses' hoofs clatter and ring, and they who ride over it spin
along the highway, until suddenly they find that the road breaks over an embankment, and they
try to halt, and they saw the bit in the mouth of the fiery steed, and cry "Ho! ho!" But it
is too late, and--crash!--they go over the embankment. We shall turn, this morning, and see
if we can not find a different kind of a road.

You have heard of the Appian Way. It was three hundred and fifty miles long. It was twenty-four
feet wide, and on either side the road was a path for foot passengers. It was made out of rocks
cut in hexagonal shape and fitted together. What a road it must have been! Made of smooth,
hard rock, three hundred and fifty miles long. No wonder that in the construction of it the
treasures of a whole empire were exhausted. Because of invaders, and the elements, and time--the
old conqueror who tears up a road as he goes over it--there is nothing left of that structure
excepting a ruin. But I have this morning to tell you of a road built before the Appian Way,
and yet it is as good as when first constructed. Millions of souls have gone over it. Millions
more will come.

    "The prophets and apostles, too,
      Pursued this road while here below;
    We therefore will, without dismay
      Still walk in Christ, the good old way."

I. First, this road of the text is the King's highway. In the diligence you dash over the Bernard
pass of the Alps, mile after mile, and there is not so much as a pebble to jar the wheels.
You go over bridges which cross chasms that make you hold your breath; under projecting rock;
along by dangerous precipices; through tunnels adrip with the meltings of the glaciers; and,
perhaps for the first time, learn the majesty of a road built and supported by government authority.
Well, my Lord the King decided to build a highway from earth to heaven. It should span all
the chasms of human wretchedness; it should tunnel all the mountains of earthly difficulty;
it should be wide enough and strong enough to hold fifty thousand millions of the human race,
if so many of them should ever be born. It should be blasted out of the "Rock of Ages," and
cemented with the blood of the Cross, and be lifted amid the shouting of angels and the execration
of devils.

The King sent His Son to build that road. He put head and hand and heart to it, and, after
the road was completed, waved His blistered hand over the way, crying, "It is finished!" Napoleon
paid fifteen million francs for the building of the Simplon Road, that his cannon might go
over for the devastation of Italy; but our King, at a greater expense, has built a road for
a different purpose, that the banners of heavenly dominion might come down over it, and all
the redeemed of earth travel up over it.

Being a King's highway, of course it is well built. Bridges splendidly arched and buttressed
have given way and crushed the passengers who attempted to cross them. But Christ, the King,
would build no such thing as that. The work done, He mounts the chariot of His love, and multitudes
mount with Him, and He drives on and up the steep of heaven amid the plaudits of gazing worlds!
The work is done--well done--gloriously done--magnificently done.

II. Still further: this road spoken of is a clean road.

Many a fine road has become miry and foul because it has not been properly cared for; but my
text says the unclean shall not walk on this one. Room on either side to throw away your sins.
Indeed, if you want to carry them along, you are not on the right road. That bridge will break,
those overhanging rocks will fall, the night will come down, leaving you at the mercy of the
mountain bandits, and at the very next turn of the road you will perish. But if you are really
on this clean road of which I have been speaking, then you will stop ever and anon to wash
in the water that stands in the basin of the eternal rock. Ay, at almost every step of the
journey you will be crying out: "Create within me a clean heart!" If you have no such aspirations
as that, it proves that you have mistaken your way; and if you will only look up and see the
finger-board above your head, you may read upon it the words: "There is a way that seemeth
right unto a man, but the end thereof is death." Without holiness no man shall see the Lord;
and if you have any idea that you can carry along your sins, your lusts, your worldliness,
and yet get to the end of the Christian race, you are so awfully mistaken that, in the name
of God, this morning I shatter the delusion.

III. Still further, the road spoken of is a plain road. "The wayfaring men, though fools, shall
not err therein." That is, if a man is three fourths an idiot, he can find this road just as
well as if he were a philosopher. The imbecile boy, the laughing-stock of the street, and followed
by a mob hooting at him, has only just to knock once at the gate of heaven, and it swings open:
while there has been many a man who can lecture about pneumatics, and chemistry, and tell the
story of Farraday's theory of electrical polarization, and yet has been shut out of heaven.
There has been many a man who stood in an observatory and swept the heavens with his telescope,
and yet has not been able to see the Morning Star. Many a man has been familiar with all the
higher branches of mathematics, and yet could not do the simple sum, "What shall it profit
a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" Many a man has been a fine reader
of tragedies and poems, and yet could not "read his title clear to mansions in the skies."
Many a man has botanized across the continent, and yet not know the "Rose of Sharon and the
Lily of the Valley." But if one shall come in the right spirit, crying the way to heaven, he
will find it a plain way. The pardon is plain. The peace is plain. Everything is plain.

He who tries to get on the road to heaven through the New Testament teaching will get on beautifully.
He who goes through philosophical discussion will not get on at all. Christ says: "Come to
Me, and I will take all your sins away, and I will take all your troubles away." Now what is
the use of my discussing it any more? Is not that plain? If you wanted to go to Albany, and
I pointed you out a highway thoroughly laid out, would I be wise in detaining you by a geological
discussion about the gravel you will pass over, or a physiological discussion about the muscles
you will have to bring into play? No. After this Bible has pointed you the way to heaven, is
it wise for me to detain you with any discussion about the nature of the human will, or whether
the atonement is limited or unlimited? There is the road--go on it. It is a plain way. And
that is you and that is me. Any little child here can understand this as well as I can. "Unless
you become as a little child, you can not see the kingdom of God." If you are saved, it will
not be as a philosopher, it will be as a little child. "Of such is the kingdom of Heaven."
Unless you get the spirit of little children, you will never come out at their glorious destiny.

IV. Still further: this road to heaven is a safe road. Sometimes the traveler in those ancient
highways would think himself perfectly secure, not knowing there was a lion by the way, burying
his head deep between his paws, and then, when the right moment came, under the fearful spring
the man's life was gone, and there was a mauled carcass by the roadside. But, says my text,
"No lion shall be there." I wish I could make you feel, this morning, your entire security.
I tell you plainly that one minute after a man has become a child of God, he is as safe as
though he had been ten thousand years in heaven. He may slip, he may slide, he may stumble;
but he can not be destroyed. Kept by the power of God, through faith, unto complete salvation.
Everlastingly safe.

The severest trial to which you can subject a Christian man is to kill him, and that is glory.
In other words, the worst thing that can happen a child of God is heaven. The body is only
the old slippers that he throws aside just before putting on the sandals of light. His soul,
you can not hurt it. No fires can consume it. No floods can drown it. No devils can capture it.

    "Firm and unmoved are they
      Who rest their souls on God;
    Fixed as the ground where David stood,
      Or where the ark abode."

His soul is safe. His reputation is safe. Everything is safe. "But," you say, "suppose his
store burns up?" Why, then, it will be only a change of investments from earthly to heavenly
securities. "But," you say, "suppose his name goes down under the hoof of scorn and contempt?"
The name will be so much brighter in glory. "Suppose his physical health fails?" God will pour
into him the floods of everlasting health, and it will not make any difference. Earthly subtraction
is heavenly addition. The tears of earth are the crystals of heaven. As they take rags and
tatters and put them through the paper-mill, and they come out beautiful white sheets of paper,
so, often, the rags of earthly destitution, under the cylinders of death, come out a white
scroll upon which shall be written eternal emancipation.

There was one passage of Scripture, the force of which I never understood until one day at
Chamounix, with Mont Blanc on one side, and Montanvent on the other, I opened my Bible and
read: "As the mountains are around about Jerusalem, so the Lord is around about them that fear
Him." The surroundings were an omnipotent commentary.

    "Though troubles assail, and dangers affright;
    Though friends should all fail, and foes all unite;
    Yet one thing secures us, whatever betide,
    The Scriptures assure us the Lord will provide."

V. Still further: the road spoken of is a pleasant road. God gives a bond of indemnity against
all evil to every man that treads it. "All things work together for good to those who love
God." No weapon formed against them can prosper. That is the bond, signed, sealed, and delivered
by the President of the whole universe. What is the use of your fretting, O child of God, about
food? And will He take care of the sparrow, will He take care of the hawk, and let you die?
What is the use of your fretting about clothes? "Consider the lilies of the field. Shall He
not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?" What is the use worrying for fear something
will happen to your home? "He blesseth the habitation of the just." What is the use of your
fretting lest you will be overcome of temptations?

O this King's highway! Trees of life on either side, bending over until their branches interlock
and drop midway their fruit and shade. Houses of entertainment on either side the road for
poor pilgrims. Tables spread with a feast of good things, and walls adorned with apples of
gold in pictures of silver. I start out on this King's highway, and I find a harper, and I
say: "What is your name?" I go a little further on the same road and meet a trumpeter of heaven,
and I say: "Haven't you got some music for a tired pilgrim?" I go a little distance further
on the same road, and I meet a maiden of Israel. She has no harp, but she has cymbals. They
look as if they had rusted from sea-spray; and I say to the maiden of Israel: "Have you no
song for a tired pilgrim?" And then I see a white-robed group. They come bounding toward me,
and I say: "Who are they? The happiest, and the brightest, and the fairest in all heaven--who
are they?" And the answer comes: "These are they who came out of great tribulations, and had
their robes washed and made white with the blood of the Lamb."

I pursue this subject only one step further. What is the terminus? I do not care how fine a
road you may put me on, I want to know where it comes out. My text declares it: "The redeemed
of the Lord come to Zion." You know what Zion was. That was the King's palace. It was a mountain
fastness. It was impregnable. And so heaven is the fastness of the universe. No howitzer has
long enough range to shell those towers. Let all the batteries of earth and hell blaze away;
they can not break in those gates. Gibraltar was taken, Sebastopol was taken, Babylon fell;
but these walls of heaven shall never surrender either to human or Satanic besiegement. The
Lord God Almighty is the defense of it. Great capital of the universe! Terminus of the King's
highway!

Doctor Dick said that, among other things, he thought in heaven we should study chemistry,
and geometry, and conic sections. Southey thought that in heaven he would have the pleasure
of seeing Chaucer and Shakespeare. Now, Doctor Dick may have his mathematics for all eternity,
and Southey his Shakespeare. Give me Christ and my old friends--that is all the heaven I want,
that is heaven enough for me. O garden of light, whose leaves never wither, and whose fruits
never fail! O banquet of God, whose sweetness never palls the taste, and whose guests are kings
forever! O city of light, whose walls are salvation, and whose gates are praise! O palace of
rest, where God is the monarch and everlasting ages the length of His reign! O song louder
than the surf-beat of many waters, yet soft as the whisper of cherubim!

O my heaven! When my last wound is healed, when the last heart-break is ended, when the last
tear of earthly sorrow is wiped away, and when the redeemed of the Lord shall come to Zion,
then let all the harpers take down their harps, and all the trumpeters take down their trumpets,
and all across heaven there be chorus of morning stars, chorus of white-robed victors, chorus
of martyrs from under the throne, chorus of ages, chorus of worlds, and there be but one song
sung, and but one name spoken, and but one throne honored--that of Jesus only.

THE RANSOMLESS.

Trouble makes some men mad. It was so with Job. He had lost his property, he had lost his physical
health, he had lost his dear children, and the losses had led to exasperation instead of any
spiritual profit. I suppose that he was in the condition that many are now in who sit before
me. There are those here whose fortunes have begun to flap their wings, as though to fly away.
There is a hollow cough in some of your dwellings. There is a subtraction of comfort and happiness,
and you feel disgusted with the world, and impatient with many events that are transpiring
in your history, and you are in the condition in which Job was when the words of my text accosted
him: "Beware lest He take thee away with His stroke and then a ransom can not deliver thee."

I propose to show you that sometimes God suddenly removes from us our gospel opportunities,
and that, when He has done so, our case is ransomless. "Beware lest He take thee away with
His stroke: then a great ransom can not deliver thee."

I. Sometimes the stroke comes in the removal of the intellect.

"Oh," says some man, "as long as I keep my mind I can afford to adjourn religion." But suppose
you do not keep it? A fever, the hurling of a missile, the falling of a brick from a scaffolding,
the accidental discharge of a gun--and your mind is gone. If you have ever been in an anatomical
room, and have examined the human brain, you know what a delicate organ it is. And can it be
possible that our eternity is dependent upon the healthy action of that which can be so easily
destroyed?

"Oh," says some one, "you don't know how strong a mind I have." I reply: Losses, accident,
bereavement, and sickness may shipwreck the best physical or mental condition. There are those
who have been ten years in lunatic asylums who had as good a mind as you. While they had their
minds they neglected God, and when their intellect went, with it went their last opportunity
for heaven. Now they are not responsible for what they do, or for what they say; but in the
last day they will be held responsible for what they did when they were mentally well; and
if, on that day, a soul should say: "Oh, God, I was demented, and I had no responsibility,"
God will say: "Yes, you were demented; but there were long years when you were not demented.
That was your chance for heaven, and you missed it." Oh, better be, as the Scotch say, a little
"daft," nevertheless having grace in the heart; better be like poor Richard Hampson, the Cornish
fool, whose biography has just appeared in England--a silly man he was, yet bringing souls
to Jesus Christ by scores and scores--giving an account of his own conversion, when he said:
"The mob got after me, and I lost my hat, and climbed up by a meat-stand, in order that I might
not be trampled under foot, and while I was there, my heart got on fire with love toward those
who were chasing me, and, springing to my feet, I began to exhort and to pray." Oh, my God,
let me be in the last, last day the Cornish fool, rather than have the best intellect God ever
created unillumined by the Gospel of Jesus Christ!

Consider what an uncertain possession you have in your intellect, when there are so many things
around to destroy it; and beware, lest before you use it in making the religious choice, God
takes it away with a stroke. I know a good many of my friends who are putting off religion
until the last hour. They say when they get sick they will attend to it, but generally the
intellect is beclouded; and oh; what a doleful thing it is to stand by a dying bed, and talk
to a man about his soul, and feel, from what you see of the motion of his head, and the glare
of his eye, and from what you hear of the jargon of his lips, that he does not understand what
you are saying to him. I have stood beside the death-bed of a man who had lived a sinful life,
and was as unprepared for eternity as it is possible for a man to be, and I tried to make him
understand my pastoral errand; but all in vain. He could not understand it, and so he died.

Oh! ye who are putting off until the sick hour preparation for eternity, let me tell you that
in all probability, you will not be able in your last hour to attend to it at all. There are
a great many people who say they will repent on the death-bed.

I have no doubt there are many who have repented on the death-bed, but I think it is the exception.
Albert Barnes, who was one of the coolest of men, and gave no rash statistics, said thus: that
in a ministry of nearly half a century--he was over seventy when he went up to glory--he had
known a great many people who said they repented on the dying bed, but, unexpectedly to themselves,
got well; and he says, How many of those, do you suppose, who thought it was their dying bed,
and who, after they repented on that dying bed, having got well, lived consistently, showing
that it was real repentance, and not mock repentance--how many? not one! not one!

II. Again: this stroke may come to you in the withdrawal of God's spirit.

I see people before me who were, twenty years ago, serious about their souls. They are not
now. They have no interest in what I am saying. They will never have any anxiety in what any
minister of the Gospel says about their souls. Their time seems to have passed. I know a man,
seventy-five years of age, who, in early life, became almost a Christian, but grieved away
the spirit of God, and he has never thought earnestly since, and he can not be roused. I do
not believe he will be roused until eternity flashes on his astonished vision.

It does seem as if sometimes, in quite early life, the Holy Spirit moves upon a heart, and
being grieved away and rejected, never comes back. You say that is all imaginary? A letter,
the address of which I will not give, dated last Monday morning, came to me on Tuesday, saying
this: "Your sermon last night (that is, last Sabbath night) did not fit my case, although I
believe it did all others in the Academy; but your sermon of a week ago did fit my case, for
I am 'past feeling.' I am not ashamed to be a Christian. I would as soon be known to be a Christian
as anything else. Indeed, I wish I was, but I have not the least power to become one. Don't
you know that with some persons there is a tide in their spiritual natures which, if taken
at the flood, leads on to salvation? Such a tide I felt two years ago. I want you to pray for
me, not that I may be led to Christ--for that prayer would not be answered--but that I may
be kept from the temptation to suicide!"

What I had to say to the author of that I said in a private letter; but what I have to say
to this audience is: Beware lest you grieve the Holy Ghost, and He be gone, and never return.
Next Wednesday, at two or three o'clock, a Cunard steamer will put out from Jersey City wharf
for Liverpool. After it has gone one hour, and the vessel is down by the Narrows, or beyond,
go out on the Jersey City wharf, and wave your hand, and shout, and ask that steamer to come
back to the wharf. Will it? Yes, sooner than the Holy Ghost will come back when once He has
taken his final flight from thy soul. With that Holy Spirit some of you have been in treaty,
my dear friends.

The Holy Spirit said: "Come, come to Christ." You said: "No, I won't." The Spirit said, more
importunately: "Come to Christ." You said: "Well, I will after awhile, when I get my business
fixed up; when my friends consent to my coming; when they won't laugh at me--then I'll come."
But the Holy Spirit more emphatically said: "Come now." You said: "No, I can't. I can't come
now." And that Holy Spirit stands in your heart to-night, with His hand on the door of your
soul, ready to come out. Will you let Him depart? If so, then, with a pen of light, dipped
in ink of eternal blackness, the sentence may be now writing: "Ephraim is joined to his idols.
Let him alone! Let him alone!" When that fatal record is made, you might as well brace yourselves
up against the sorrows of the last day, against the anguish of an unforgiven death-bed, against
the flame and the overthrow of an undone eternity; for though you might live thirty years after
that in the world, your fate would be as certain as though you had already entered the gates
of darkness. That is the dead line. Look out how you cross it!

    "'There is a line by us unseen,
      That crosses every path;
    The hidden boundary between
      God's patience and His wrath.'"

And some of you, to-night, have come up to that line. Ay, you have lifted your foot, and when
you put it down, it will be on the other side! Look out how you cross it! Oh, grieve not the
Spirit of God, lest He never come back!

III. This fatal stroke spoken of in the text may be our exit from this world. I hear aged people
sometimes saying: "I can't live much longer." But do you know the fact that there are a hundred
young people and middle-aged people who go out of this life to one aged person, for the simple
reason that there are not many aged people to leave life? The aged seem to stand around like
stalks--separate stalks of wheat at the corner of the field; but when death goes a-mowing,
he likes to go down amid the thick of the harvest. What is more to the point: a man's going
out of this world is never in the way he expects--it is never at the time he expects. The moment
of leaving this world is always a surprise. If you expect to go in the winter, it may be in
the summer; if in the summer, it may be in the winter; if in the night, it maybe in the day-time;
if you think to go in the day-time, it may be in the night. Suddenly the event will rush upon
you, and you will be gone. Where? If a Christian--into joy. If not a Christian--into suffering.

The Gospel call stops outside of the door of the sepulcher. The sleeper within can not hear
it. If that call should be sounded out with clarion voice louder than ever rang through the
air, that sleeper could not hear it. I suppose every hour of the day, and now, while I am speaking,
there are souls rushing into eternity unprepared. They slide from the pillow, or they slip
from the pavement, and in an eye-twinkling they are gone. Elegant and eloquent funeral oration
will not do them any good. Epitaph, cut on polished Scotch granite, will not do them any good.
Wailing of beloved kindred can not call them back.

But, says some one: "I'll keep out of peril; I will not go on the sea, I will not go into battle--I'll
keep out of all danger." That is no defense. Thousands of people, last night, on their couches,
with the front door locked, and no armed assassin anywhere around, surrounded by all defended
circumstances, slipped out of this life into the next. If time had been on one side of the
shuttle and eternity on the other side of the shuttle, they could not have shot quicker across
it. A man was saying: "My father was lost at sea, and my grandfather, and my great-grandfather.
Wasn't it strange?" A man, talking to him, said: "You ought never to venture on the sea, lest
you, yourself, be lost at sea." The man turned to the other, and said: "Where did your father
die?" He replied: "In his bed." "Where did your grandfather die?" "In his bed." "Where did
your great-grandfather die?" "In his bed." "Then," he said, "be careful, lest some night, while
you are asleep on your couch, your time may come!"

Death alone is sure. Suddenly, you and I will go out of life. I am not saying anything to your
soul that I am not going to say to my own soul. We have got to go suddenly out of this life.
If I am prepared for that change, I do not care where my body is taken from--at what point
I am taken out of this life. If I am ready, all is well. If I am not ready, though I might
be at home, and though my loved ones might be standing around me, and though there might be
the best surgical and medical ability in the room, I tell you, if I were not prepared, I would
be frightened more than tongue can tell. It may seem like cowardice, but I am not ashamed to
say that I should have the most indescribable horror about going out of this world if I thought
I was unprepared for the next--if I had no Christ in my soul; for it would be a plunge compared
with which a leap from the top of Mont Blanc would be nothing.

But this brings me to the most tremendous thought of my text. The text supposes that a man
goes into ruin, and that an effort is made afterward for his rescue, and then says the thing
can not be done. Is that so? After death seizes upon that soul, is there no resurrection? If
a man topples off the edge of life, is there nothing to break his fall? If an impenitent man
goes overboard, are there no grappling-hooks to hoist him into safety? The text says distinctly:
"Then a great ransom can not deliver thee."

I know there are people who call themselves "Restorationists," and they say a sinful man may
go down into the world of the lost; he stays there until he gets reformed, and then comes up
into the world of light and blessedness. It seems to me to be a most unreasonable doctrine--as
though the world of darkness were a place where a man could get reformed. Is there anything
in the society of the lost world--the abandoned and the wretched of God's universe--to elevate
a man's character and lift him at last to heaven? Can we go into companionship of the Neroes
and the Herods, and the Jim Fisks, and spend a certain number of years in that lost world,
and then by that society be purified and lifted up? Is that the kind of society that reforms
a man and prepares him for heaven? Would you go to Shreveport or Memphis, with the yellow fever
there, to get your physical health restored? Can it be that a man may go down into the diseased
world--a world overwhelmed by an epidemic of transgressions--and by that process, and in that
atmosphere, be lifted up to health and glory? Your common sense says: "No! no!" In such society
as that, instead of being restored, you would go down worse and worse, plunging every hour
into deeper depths of suffering and darkness. What your common sense says the Bible reaffirms,
when it says: "These shall go away into three months of punishment." I have quoted it wrong.
"These shall go away into ten years of punishment." I have quoted it wrong. "These shall go
into a thousand years of punishment." I have quoted it wrong. "These shall go into everlasting
punishment." And now I have quoted it right; or, if you prefer, in the words of my text: "Then
a great ransom can not deliver thee."

Now just suppose that a spirit should come down from heaven and knock at the gates of woe and
say: "Let that man out! Let me come in and suffer in his stead. I will be the sacrifice. Let
him come out." The grim jailer would reply: "No, you don't know what a place this is, or you
would not ask to come in; besides that, this man had full warning and full opportunity of escape.
He did not take the warning, and now a great ransom shall not deliver him."

Sometimes men are sentenced to imprisonment for life. There comes another judge on the bench,
there comes another governor in the chair, and in three or four years you find the man who
was sentenced for life in the street. You say: "I thought you were sentenced for life." "Oh!"
he says, "politics are changed, and I am now a free man." But it will not be so for a soul
at the last. There will be no new judge or new governor. If at the end of a century a soul
might come out, it would not be so bad. If at the end of a thousand years it might come out,
it would not be so bad. If there were any time in all the future, in quadrillions and quadrillions
of years, that the soul might come out, it would not be so bad; but if the Bible be true, it
is a state of unending duration.

Far on in the ages one lost soul shall cry out to another lost soul: "How long have you been
here?" and the soul will reply: "The years of my ruin are countless. I estimated the time for
thousands of years; but what is the use of estimating when all these rolling cycles bring us
no nearer the terminus." Ages! Ages! Ages! Eternity! Eternity! Eternity! The wrath to come!
The wrath to come! The wrath to come! No medicine to cure that marasmus of the soul. No hammer
to strike off the handcuff of that incarceration. No burglar's key to pick the locks which
the Lord hath fastened. Sir Francis Newport, in his last moment, caught just one glimpse of
that world. He had lived a sinful life. Before he went into the eternal world he looked into
it. The last words he ever uttered were, as he gathered himself up on his elbows in the bed:
"Oh, the insufferable pangs of hell!" The lost soul will cry out: "I can not stand this! I
can not stand this! Is there no way out?" and the echo will answer: "No way out." And the soul
will cry: "Is this forever?" and the echo will answer: "Forever!"

Is it all true? "These shall go away into everlasting punishment, while the righteous go into
life eternal." Are there two destinies? and must all this audience share one or the other?
Shall I give an account for what I have told you to-night? Have I held back any truth, though
it were plain, though it were unpalatable? Must I meet you there, oh, you dying but immortal
auditory? I wish that my text, with all its uplifted hands of warning, could come upon your
souls: "Beware lest He take thee away with His stroke: then a great ransom can not deliver thee."

Glory be to God, there is a ransom that can now deliver you, braver than Grace Darling putting
out in a life-boat from Eddystone Light-house for the rescue of the crew of the Forfarshire
steamer--Christ the Lord launched from heaven, amid the shouting of the angels. Thirty-three
years afterward, Christ the Lord launched from earth to heaven, amid human and infernal execration;
yet staying here long enough to save all who will believe in Him. Do you hear that? To save
all who will believe in Him. Oh, that pierced side! Oh, that bleeding brow! Oh, that crushed
foot! Oh, that broken heart! That is your hope, sinner. That is your ransom from sin, and death,
and hell.

Why have I told you all these things to-night, plainly and frankly? It is because I know there
is redemption for you, and I would have you now come and get it. Oh, men and women long prayed
for, and striven with, and coaxed of the mercy of God--have you concentrated all your physical,
mental, and spiritual energies in one awful determination to be lost? Is there nothing in the
value of your soul, in the graciousness of Christ, in the thunders of the last day, in the
blazing glories of heaven, and the surging wrath of an undone eternity to start you out of
your indifference, and make you pray? Oh, must God come upon you in some other way? Must He
take another darling child from your household? Must He take another installment from your
worldly estate? Must life come upon you with sorrow after sorrow, and smite you down with sickness
before you will be moved, and before you will feel?

Oh, weep now, while Jesus will count the tears! Sigh, now in repentance, while Jesus will hear
the grief. Now clutch the cross of the Son of God before it be swept away. Beware, lest the
Holy Spirit leave thy heart. Beware, lest this night thy soul be required of thee. "Beware,
lest he take thee away with His stroke: then a great ransom can not deliver thee." Oh, Lord
God of Israel, see these impenitent souls on the verge of death ready to topple over! See them!
Is there no help? Is this plea all in vain? I can not believe it, blessed God. Oh, thou mighty
One, whose garments are red with the wine-press of Thine own sufferings, in the greatness of
Thy strength ride through this audience, and may all this people fall into line, the willing
captives of Thy grace. Men and women immortal! I lay hold of you to-night with both hands of
entreaty and of prayer, and I beg of you, prepare for death, judgment, and eternity.

THE THREE GROUPS.

    "And they sat down in ranks by hundreds and by fifties."--MARK
    vi: 40.

The sun was far down in the west, night was coming on, and there were five thousand people
tired, hungry, shelterless. You know how Washington felt at Valley Forge, when his army was
starving and freezing. You may imagine how any great-hearted general would feel while his troops
were suffering. Imagine, then, how Christ, with His great heart, must have felt as He saw these
five thousand hunger-bitten people. Yes, I suppose there were ten thousand there, for the Bible
says there were five thousand men, besides women and children. The case is put in that way,
not because the women and children were of less importance than the men, but because they would
eat less; and the whole force of the miracle turns on the amount of food required.

How shall this great multitude be supplied? I see a selfish man in that crowd pulling a luncheon
out of his own pocket, and saying: "Let the people starve. They had no business to come out
here in the desert without any provisions. They are improvident, and the improvident ought
to suffer." There is another man, not quite so heartless, who says: "Go up into the village
and buy bread." What a foolish proposition! There is not enough food in all the village for
this crowd; besides that, who has the money to pay for it? Xerxes' army, one million strong,
was fed by a private individual of great wealth for only one day, but it broke him. Who, then,
shall feed this multitude?

I see a man rising in that great crowd and asking: "Is there any one here who has bread or
meat?" A kind of moan goes through the whole throng. "No bread--no meat." But just at that
time a lad steps up. You know when a great crowd goes off upon an excursion, there are always
men and boys to go along for the purpose of merchandise and to strike a bargain: and so, I
suppose, this boy had gone along for the purpose of merchandise; but he was nearly all sold
out, having only five loaves and two fishes left. He is a generous boy, and he turns them over
to Christ.

But these loaves would not feed twenty people, how much less ten thousand! Though the action
was so generous on the part of the boy, so far as satisfying the multitude, it was a dead failure.
Then Jesus comes to the rescue. He is apt to come when there is a dead lift. He commands the
people that they sit down "in ranks, by hundreds and by fifties," as much as to say: "Order!
order! so that none be missed." It was fortunate that that arrangement was made; otherwise,
at the very first appearance of bread, the strong ones would have clutched it, while the feeble
and the modest would have gone unsupplied.

I suppose it was no easy work to get that crowd seated, for they all wanted to be in the front
row, lest the bread give out before their turn come. No sooner are they seated than there comes
a great hush over all the people. Jesus stands there, His light complexion and auburn locks
illumined by the setting sun. Every eye is on Him. They wonder what He will do next. He takes
one of the loaves that the boy furnished and breaks off it a piece, which immediately grows
to as large a size as the original loaf, the original loaf staying as large as it was before
the piece was broken off. And they leaned forward with intense scrutiny, saying: "Look! look!"
When some one, anxious to see more minutely what is going on, rises in front, they cry: "Sit
down in front! Let us look for ourselves."

And then, when the bread is passed around, they taste of it skeptically and inquiringly, as
much as to say: "Is it bread? Really, is it bread?" Yes, the best bread that was ever made,
for Christ made it. Bread for the first fifty and second fifty. Bread for the first hundred
and the second hundred. Bread for the first thousand and the second thousand. Pass it all around
the circle: there, where that aged man sits leaning on his staff, and where that woman sits
with the child in her arms. Pass it all around. Are you all fed? "Ay! ay!" respond the ten
thousand voices; "all fed." One basket would have held the loaves before the miracle; it takes
twelve baskets now. Sound it through all the ages of earth and heaven, that Christ the Lord
comes to our suffering race with the bread of this life in one hand, and the bread of eternal
life in the other hand.

You have all immediately run out the analogy between that scene and this. There were thousands
there; there are thousands here. They were in the desert; many of you are in the desert of
trouble and sin. No human power could feed them; no human power can feed you. Christ appeared
to them; Christ appears to you. Bread enough for all in the desert; bread enough for all who
are here. And, as on that occasion, so in this: we have the people "sit down in ranks by hundreds
and by fifties;" for the fact that many of you stand is no fault of ours, for we have tried
to give you seats. As Christ divided that company into groups, so I divide this audience into
three groups: the pardoned, the seeking, the careless.

I. And, first, I speak to the pardoned.

It is with some of you half past five in the morning, and some faint streaks of light. With
others it is seven o'clock, and thus full dawn. With others it is twelve o'clock at noon, and
you sit in full blaze of Gospel pardon. I bring you congratulation. Joseph delivered from Potiphar's
dungeon; Daniel lifted from the lion's den; Saul arrested and unhorsed on the road to Damascus.
Oh, you delivered captives, how your eyes should gleam, and your souls should bound, and your
lips should sing in this pardon! From what land did you come? A land of darkness. What is to
be your destiny? A land of light. Who got you out? Christ, the Lord. Can you sit so placidly
and unmoved while all heaven comes to your soul with congratulation, and harps are strung,
and crowns are lifted, and a great joy swings round the heavens at the news of your disinthrallment?
If you could realize out of what a pit you have been dug, to what height you are to be raised,
and to what glory you are destined, you would spring to your feet with "Hosanna!"

In 1808 there was a meeting of the emperors of France and Russia at Erfurt. There were distinguished
men there also from other lands. It was so arranged that when any of the emperors arrived at
the door of the reception-room, the drum should beat three times; but when a lesser dignitary
should come, then the drum would sound but twice. After awhile the people in the audience-chamber
heard two taps of the drum. They said: "A prince is coming." But after awhile there were three
taps, and they cried: "The emperor!" Oh, there is a more glorious arrival at your soul to-night!
The drum beats twice at the coming in of the lesser joys and congratulations of your soul;
but it beats once, twice, thrice at the coming in of a glorious King--Jesus the Saviour, Jesus
the God! I congratulate you. All are yours--things present and things to come.

II. I come now to speak of the second division--those who are seeking; some of you with more
earnestness, some of you with less earnestness. But I believe that to-night, if I should ask
all those who wish to find the way to heaven to rise, and the world did not scoff at you, and
your own proud heart did not keep you down, there would be a thousand souls who would cry out
as they rose up: "Show me the way to heaven!" That young man who smiled to the one next to
him, as though he cared for none of these things, would be on his knees crying for mercy. Why
this anxious look? Why this deep disquietude in the soul? Why, at the beginning of this service,
did you do what you have not done for years--bow your head in prayer? You are seeking.

"I am a gambler," says one man. There is mercy for you. "I am a libertine," says another. There
is mercy for you. "I have plunged into every abomination." Mercy for you. The door of grace
does not stand ajar to-night, nor half swung around on the hinges. It is wide, wide open; and
there is nothing in the Bible, or in Christ, or God, or earth, or heaven, or hell, to keep
you out of the door of safety, if you want to go in. Christ has borne your burdens, fought
your battles, suffered for your sins. The debt is paid, and the receipt is handed to you, written
in the blood of the Son of God--will you have it? Oh, decide the matter now! Decide it here!
Fling your exhausted soul down at the feet of an all-compassionate, all-sympathizing, all-pitying,
all-pardoning Jesus. The laceration on His brow, the gash in His side, the torn muscles and
nerves of His feet beg you to come.

But remember that one inch outside the door of pardon, and you are in as much peril as though
you were a thousand miles away. Many a shipwrecked sailor has got almost to the beach, but
did not get on it. There are thousands in the world of the lost who came very near being saved--perhaps
as near as you are to-night--but were not saved.

On the eastern coast of England, a few weeks ago, in a fishing-village, there was a good deal
of excitement. While people were in church, the sailors and fishermen hearing the Gospel on
the Sabbath, there was a cry: "To the beach!" and the minister closed the Bible, and with his
congregation went out to help, and they saw in the offing a ship in trouble; but there was
some disorder amid the fishing-smacks, and amid all the boats, and it was almost impossible
to get anything launched. But after awhile they did, and they pulled away for the wreck, and
came almost up, when suddenly the distressed bark in the offing capsized, and they all went
down. Oh, if the lifeboats had only been ten minutes quicker! And how many a life-boat has
been launched from the Gospel shore! It has come almost up to the drowning, and yet, after
all, they were not rescued. Somehow they did not get into it!

I suppose there are people who have asked for our prayers, and I suppose there were some in
the side room, last Sabbath night, talking about their souls, who will miss heaven. They do
not take the last step, and all the other steps go for nothing until you have taken the last
step, for I have here, in the presence of God and this people, to announce the solemn truth,
that to be almost saved is to be lost forever. That is all I have to say to the second division.

III. I come now to speak to the careless. You look indifferent, and I suppose you are indifferent.
You say: "I came in here because a friend invited me to see what is going on, but with no serious
intentions about my soul. I have so much work, and so much pleasure on hand, don't bother me
about religion." And yet you are gentlemanly, and you are lady-like, in your behavior, and,
therefore, I know that you will listen respectfully if I talk courteously. Christian people
are sometimes afraid to talk to men and women of the world lest they be insulted. If they talk
courteously to people of the world, they will listen courteously. So now I try to come in that
way, and in that spirit, and talk to those of you who tell me that you are careless about your
soul.

Then you have a soul, have you? Yes, precious, with infinite capacity for joy or suffering,
winged for flight somewhere. Beckoned upward, beckoned downward. Fought after by angels and
by fiends. Immortal!

    "The sun is but a spark of fire,
      A transient meteor in the sky:
    The soul, immortal as its Sire,
      Can never die."

Your body will soon be taken down, the castle will be destroyed, the tower will be in the dust,
the windows will be broken out, and the place where your body sleeps will be forgotten; but
your soul, after that, will be living, acting, feeling, thinking--where? where? Oh, there must
be something of incomputable worth in that for which heaven gave up its best inhabitant, and
Christ went into martyrdom, and at the coming of which angels chant an eternal litany and devils
rush to the gate. When everything above you, and beneath you, and around you, is intent upon
that soul, you can not afford to be careless, especially when I think, this moment while I
speak, there are thousands of souls in heaven rejoicing that they attended to this matter in
time, while at this very instant there are souls in the lost world mourning that they did not
attend to it in time. Hark to the howling of the damned!

Oh, if this room could be vacated of this audience, and you were all gone, and the wan spirits
of the lost could come up and occupy this place, and I could stand before them with offers
of pardon through Jesus Christ, and then ask them if they would accept it, there would come
up an instantaneous, multitudinous, overwhelming cry: "Yes! yes! yes! yes!" No such fortune
for them. They had their day of grace, and sacrificed it. You have yours; will you sacrifice
it? I wish that I could have you see these things as you will one day see them.

Suppose, on your way home, a runaway horse should dash across the street, or between the dock
and the boat you should accidentally slip, where would you be at twelve o'clock to-night or
seven o'clock to-morrow morning? Or for all eternity where would you be? I do not answer the
question. I just leave it to you to answer.

But suppose you escape fatal accident. Suppose you go out by the ordinary process of sickness.
I will just suppose now that your last hour has come. The doctor says, as he goes out of the
room: "Can't get well." There is something in the faces of those who stand around you that
prophesies that you can not get well. You say within yourself: "I can't get well." Where are
your comrades now? Oh, they are off to the gay party that very night! They dance as well as
they ever did. They drink as much wine. They laugh as loud as though you were not dying. They
destroyed your soul, but do not come to help you die.

Well, there are father and mother in the room. They are very quiet, but occasionally they go
out into the next room and weep bitterly. The bed is very much disheveled. They have not been
able to make it up for two or three days. There are four or five pillows lying around, because
they have been trying to make you as easy as they could. On the one side of your bed are all
the past years of your life--the Bibles, the sermons, the communion-tables, the offers of mercy.
You say: "Take them away." Your mother thinks you are delirious. She says: "There is nothing
there, my dear, nothing there." There is something there! It is your wasted opportunities.
It is your procrastinations. It is those years you gave to the world that you ought to have
given to Christ. They are there; and some of them put their fingers on your aching temples,
and some of them feel for the strings of your heart, and some put more thorns in your tumbled
pillow, and you say: "Turn me over." And they turn you over, but, alas! there is a more appalling
vision. You say: "Take that away!" They say: "There is nothing there, nothing there." There
is--an open grave there! the judgment is there! a lost eternity is there! Take it away! They
can not take it away.

You say: "How dark it is getting in the room!" Why, the burners are all lighted. Your family
come up one by one, and tenderly kiss you good-bye. Your feet are cold, and the hands are cold,
and the lips are cold, and they take a small mirror and they put it over your mouth to see
if there is any breathing, and that mirror is taken away without a single blur upon it; and
they whisper through the room: "She is gone." And then the door of the body opens and the soul
flashes out. Make room for the destroyed spirit.

Push back that door! Lost! Let it come into its eternal residence. Woe! woe! No cup of merriment
now, but cup of the wrath of Almighty God. The last chance for heaven gone. The door of mercy
shut. The doom sealed. The blackness of darkness forever!

Voltaire is there. Herod is there. Robespierre is there. The debauchees are there. The murderers
are there. All the rejectors of Jesus Christ are there. And you will be there unless you repent.
You can not say, my dear brother, that you were not warned. This sermon would be a witness
against you. You can not say that God's Holy Spirit never strove with your heart. He is striving
now. You can not say that you had no chance for heaven, for the Omnipotent Son of God offers
you His rescue. You can not say: "I had no warning about that world; I didn't know there was
any such place," for the Bible distinctly rings in your ears to-day, saying: "At the end of
the world the angels shall separate the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into
a furnace of fire." And again that book says: "The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all
the nations that forget God." And again it says: "The smoke of their torment ascendeth for
ever and ever."

You can not say that you did not hear about heaven, the other alternative, for you hear of
it now: "The Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall lead them to living fountains of
water, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes." No sorrow, no suffering, no death.
Oh, will you be careless any longer, when I tell you that Christ, the Conqueror of earth and
hell, offers you now escape from all peril, and offers to introduce you this very hour into
the peace and pardon of the Gospel, preparing you for that good land? The sides of Calvary
run blood for you. Jesus, who had not where to lay His head, offers you His heart as a pillow
of rest. Christ offers with His own body to bridge over the chasm of death, saying: "Walk over
Me; I am the way."

O suffering Jesus! the thief scoffed at Thee, and the malefactor spat on Thee, and the soldiers
stabbed Thee; but these who sit before Thee to-day have no heart to do that. O Jesus! tell
them of Thy love, tell them of Thy sympathy, tell them of the rewards Thou wilt give them in
the better land. Groan again, O blessed Jesus! groan again, and perhaps when the rocks fall,
their hard hearts may break.

    "Nothing brought Him from above,
     Nothing but redeeming love."

The promise is all free, the path all clear. Come, Mary, and sit to-night at the feet of Jesus.
Come, Bartimeus, and have your eyes opened. Come, O prodigal! and sit at thy father's table.
Come, O you suffering, sinning, dying the soul! and find rest on the heart of Jesus. The Spirit
and Bride say "Come," and Churches militant and triumphant say "Come," and all the voices of
the past, mingling with all the voices of the future, in one great thunder of emphasis, bid
you "Come now!" Are not those of you who are in the third class ready to pass over into the
second division, and become seekers after Christ? Ay, are you not ready to pass over into the
first division, and become the pardoned sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty? I can do no
more than offer you, through Jesus Christ, peace on earth and everlasting residence in His
presence.

    "When God makes up His last account
    Of natives in His holy mount,
    'Twill be an honor to appear
    As one new-born and nourished there."

Good-night! The Lord bless you! Go to your homes seeking after Christ. Sleep not until you
have made your peace with God. Good-night--a deep, hearty, loving, Christian good-night!

THE INSIGNIFICANT.

The time that Ruth and Naomi arrive at Bethlehem is harvest-time. It was the custom when a
sheaf fell from a load in the harvest-field for the reapers to refuse to gather it up: that
was to be left for the poor who might happen to come along that way. If there were handfuls
of grain scattered across the field after the main harvest had been reaped, instead of raking
it, as farmers do now, it was, by the custom of the land, left in its place, so that the poor,
coming along that way, might glean it and get their bread. But, you say, "What is the use of
all these harvest-fields to Ruth and Naomi? Naomi is too old and feeble to go out and toil
in the sun; and can you expect that Ruth, the young and the beautiful, should tan her cheeks
and blister her hands in the harvest-field?"

Boaz owns a large farm, and he goes out to see the reapers gather in the grain. Coming there,
right behind the swarthy, sun-browned reapers, he beholds a beautiful woman gleaning--a woman
more fit to bend to a harp or sit upon a throne than to stoop among the sheaves. Ah, that was
an eventful day!

It was love at first sight. Boaz forms an attachment for the womanly gleaner--an attachment
full of undying interest to the Church of God in all ages; while Ruth, with an ephah, or nearly
a bushel of barley, goes home to Naomi to tell her the successes and adventures of the day.
That Ruth, who left her native land of Moab in darkness, and traveled through an undying affection
for her mother-in-law, is in the harvest-field of Boaz, is affianced to one of the best families
in Judah, and becomes in after-time the ancestress of Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory! Out
of so dark a night did there ever dawn so bright a morning?

I. I learn, in the first place, from this subject how trouble develops character. It was bereavement,
poverty, and exile that developed, illustrated, and announced to all ages the sublimity of
Ruth's character. That is a very unfortunate man who has no trouble. It was sorrow that made
John Bunyan the better dreamer, and Doctor Young the better poet, and O'Connell the better
orator, and Bishop Hall the better preacher, and Havelock the better soldier, and Kitto the
better encyclopædist, and Ruth the better daughter-in-law.

I once asked an aged man in regard to his pastor, who was a very brilliant man, "Why is it
that your pastor, so very brilliant, seems to have so little heart and tenderness in his sermons?"
"Well," he replied, "the reason is, our pastor has never had any trouble. When misfortune comes
upon him, his style will be different." After awhile the Lord took a child out of that pastor's
house; and though the preacher was just as brilliant as he was before, oh, the warmth, the
tenderness of his discourses! The fact is, that trouble is a great educator. You see sometimes
a musician sit down at an instrument, and his execution is cold and formal and unfeeling. The
reason is that all his life he has been prospered. But let misfortune or bereavement come to
that man, and he sits down at the instrument, and you discover the pathos in the first sweep
of the keys.

Misfortune and trials are great educators. A young doctor comes into a sick-room where there
is a dying child. Perhaps he is very rough in his prescription, and very rough in his manner,
and rough in the feeling of the pulse, and rough in his answer to the mother's anxious question;
but years roll on, and there has been one dead in his own house; and now he comes into the
sick-room, and with tearful eye he looks at the dying child, and he says, "Oh, how this reminds
me of my Charlie!" Trouble, the great educator. Sorrow--I see its touch in the grandest painting;
I hear its tremor in the sweetest song; I feel its power in the mightiest argument.

Grecian mythology said that the fountain of Hippocrene was struck out by the foot of the winged
horse Pegasus. I have often noticed in life that the brightest and most beautiful fountains
of Christian comfort and spiritual life have been struck out by the iron-shod hoof of disaster
and calamity. I see Daniel's courage best by the flash of Nebuchadnezzar's furnace. I see Paul's
prowess best when I find him on the foundering ship under the glare of the lightning in the
breakers of Melita. God crowns His children amid the howling of wild beasts and the chopping
of blood-splashed guillotine and the crackling fires of martyrdom. It took the persecutions
of Marcus Aurelius to develop Polycarp and Justin Martyr. It took the pope's bull and the cardinal's
curse and the world's anathema to develop Martin Luther. It took all the hostilities against
the Scotch Covenanters and the fury of Lord Claverhouse to develop James Renwick, and Andrew
Melville, and Hugh McKail, the glorious martyrs of Scotch history. It took the stormy sea,
and the December blast, and the desolate New England coast, and the war-whoop of savages, to
show forth the prowess of the Pilgrim Fathers--

    "When amid the storms they sung,
      And the stars heard, and the sea,
    And the sounding aisles of the dim wood
      Rang to the anthems of the free."

It took all our past national distresses, and it takes all our present national sorrows, to
lift up our nation on that high career where it will march along after the foreign aristocracies
that have mocked and the tyrannies that have jeered, shall be swept down under the omnipotent
wrath of God, who hates despotism, and who, by the strength of His own red right arm, will
make all men free. And so it is individually, and in the family, and in the Church, and in
the world, that through darkness and storm and trouble men, women, churches, nations, are developed.

II. Again, I see in my text the beauty of unfaltering friendship. I suppose there were plenty
of friends for Naomi while she was in prosperity; but of all her acquaintances, how many were
willing to trudge off with her toward Judah, when she had to make that lonely journey? One--the
heroine of my text. One--absolutely one. I suppose when Naomi's husband was living, and they
had plenty of money, and all things went well, they had a great many callers; but I suppose
that after her husband died, and her property went, and she got old and poor, she was not troubled
very much with callers. All the birds that sung in the bower while the sun shone have gone
to their nests, now the night has fallen.

Oh, these beautiful sun-flowers that spread out their color in the morning hour! but they are
always asleep when the sun is going down!

Life often seems to be a mere game, where the successful player pulls down all the other men
into his own lap. Let suspicions arise about a man's character, and he becomes like a bank
in a panic, and all the imputations rush on him and break down in a day that character which
in due time would have had strength to defend itself. There are reputations that have been
half a century in building, which go down under some moral exposure, as a vast temple is consumed
by the touch of a sulphurous match. A hog can uproot a century plant.

In this world, so full of heartlessness and hypocrisy, how thrilling it is to find some friend
as faithful in days of adversity as in days of prosperity!

III. Again, I learn from this subject that paths which open in hardship and darkness often
come out in places of joy. When Ruth started from Moab toward Jerusalem, to go along with her
mother-in-law, I suppose the people said: "Oh, what a foolish creature to go away from her
father's house, to go off with a poor old woman toward the land of Judah! They won't live to
get across the desert. They will be drowned in the sea, or the jackals of the wilderness will
destroy them." It was a very dark morning when Ruth started off with Naomi; but behold her
in my text in the harvest-field of Boaz, to be affianced to one of the lords of the land, and
become one of the grandmothers of Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. And so it often is that
a path which often starts very darkly ends very brightly.

When you started out for heaven, oh, how dark was the hour of conviction--how Sinai thundered,
and devils tormented, and the darkness thickened! All the sins of your life pounced upon you,
and it was the darkest hour you ever saw when you first found out your sins. After awhile you
went into the harvest-field of God's mercy; you began to glean in the fields of divine promise,
and you had more sheaves than you could carry, as the voice of God addressed you, saying: "Blessed
is the man whose transgressions are forgiven, and whose sins are covered." A very dark starting
in conviction, a very bright ending in the pardon and the hope and the triumph of the Gospel!

So, very often in our worldly business or in our spiritual career, we start off on a very dark
path. We must go. The flesh may shrink back, but there is a voice within, or a voice from above,
saying, "You must go;" and we have to drink the gall, and we have to carry the cross, and we
have to traverse the desert and we are pounded and flailed of misrepresentation and abuse,
and we have to urge our way through ten thousand obstacles that have been slain by our own
right arm. We have to ford the river, we have to climb the mountain, we have to storm the castle;
but, blessed be God, the day of rest and reward will come. On the tip-top of the captured battlements
we will shout the victory; if not in this world, then in that world where there is no gall
to drink, no burdens to carry, no battles to fight. How do I know it? Know it!

It was very hard for Noah to endure the scoffing of the people in his day, while he was trying
to build the ark, and was every morning quizzed about his old boat that would never be of any
practical use; but when the deluge came, and the tops of the mountains disappeared like the
backs of sea-monsters, and the elements, lashed up in fury, clapped their hands over a drowned
world, then Noah in the ark rejoiced in his own safety and in the safety of his family, and
looked out on the wreck of a ruined earth.

Christ, hounded of persecutors, denied a pillow, worse maltreated than the thieves on either
side of the cross, human hate smacking its lips in satisfaction after it had been draining
His last drop of blood, the sheeted dead bursting from the sepulchers at His crucifixion. Tell
me, O Gethsemane and Golgotha! were there ever darker times than those? Like the booming of
the midnight sea against the rock, the surges of Christ's anguish beat against the gates of
eternity, to be echoed back by all the thrones of heaven and all the dungeons of hell. But
the day of reward comes for Christ; all the pomp and dominion of this world are to be hung
on His throne, uncrowned heads are to bow before Him on whose head are many crowns, and all
the celestial worship is to come up at His feet, like the humming of the forest, like the rushing
of the waters, like the thundering of the seas, while all heaven, rising on their thrones,
beat time with their scepters: "Hallelujah, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth! Hallelujah,
the kingdoms of this world have become the kingdoms of our Lord Jesus Christ!"

IV. Again, I learn from my subject that events which seem to be most insignificant may be momentous.
Can you imagine anything more unimportant than the coming of a poor woman from Moab to Judah?
Can you imagine anything more trivial than the fact that this Ruth just happened to alight--as
they say--just happened to alight on that field of Boaz? Yet all ages, all generations, have
an interest in the fact that she was to become an ancestor of the Lord Jesus Christ, and all
nations and kingdoms must look at that one little incident with a thrill of unspeakable and
eternal satisfaction. So it is in your history and in mine: events that you thought of no importance
at all have been of very great moment. That casual conversation, that accidental meeting--you
did not think of it again for a long while; but how it changed all the phase of your life!

It seemed to be of no importance that Jubal invented rude instruments of music, calling them
harp and organ; but they were the introduction of all the world's minstrelsy; and as you hear
the vibration of a stringed instrument, even after the fingers have been taken away from it,
so all music now of lute and drum and cornet is only the long-continued strains of Jubal's
harp and Jubal's organ. It seemed to be a matter of very little importance that Tubal Cain
learned the uses of copper and iron; but that rude foundry of ancient days has its echo in
the rattle of Birmingham machinery, and the roar and bang of factories on the Merrimac.

It seemed to be a matter of no importance that Luther found a Bible in a monastery; but as
he opened that Bible, and the brass-bound lids fell back, they jarred everything, from the
Vatican to the furthest convent in Germany, and the rustling of the wormed leaves was the sound
of the wings of the angel of the Reformation. It seemed to be a matter of no importance that
a woman, whose name has been forgotten, dropped a tract in the way of a very bad man by the
name of Richard Baxter. He picked up the tract and read it, and it was the means of his salvation.

In after-days that man wrote a book called "The Call to the Unconverted," that was the means
of bringing a multitude to God, among others Philip Doddridge. Philip Doddridge wrote a book
called "The Rise and Progress of Religion," which has brought thousands and tens of thousands
into the kingdom of God, and among others the great Wilberforce. Wilberforce wrote a book called
"A Practical View of Christianity," which was the means of bringing a great multitude to Christ,
among others Legh Richmond. Legh Richmond wrote a tract called "The Dairyman's Daughter," which
has been the means of the salvation of unconverted multitudes. And that tide of influence started
from the fact that one Christian woman dropped a Christian tract in the way of Richard Baxter--the
tide of influence rolling on through Richard Baxter, through Philip Doddridge, through the
great Wilberforce, through Legh Richmond, on, on, on, forever, forever. So the insignificant
events of this world seem, after all, to be most momentous. The fact that you came up that
street or this street seemed to be of no importance to you, and the fact that you went inside
of some church may seem to be a matter of very great insignificance to you, but you will find
it the turning-point in your history.

V. Again, I see in my subject an illustration of the beauty of female industry.

Behold Ruth toiling in the harvest-field under the hot sun, or at noon taking plain bread with
the reapers, or eating the parched corn which Boaz handed to her. The customs of society, of
course, have changed, and without the hardships and exposure to which Ruth was subjected, every
intelligent woman will find something to do.

I know there is a sickly sentimentality on this subject. In some families there are persons
of no practical service to the household or community; and though there are so many woes all
around about them in the world, they spend their time languishing over a new pattern, or bursting
into tears at midnight over the story of some lover who shot himself! They would not deign
to look at Ruth carrying back the barley on her way home to her mother-in-law, Naomi. All this
fastidiousness may seem to do very well while they are under the shelter of their father's
house; but when the sharp winter of misfortune comes, what of these butterflies? Persons under
indulgent parentage may get upon themselves habits of indolence; but when they come out into
practical life their soul will recoil with disgust and chagrin. They will feel in their hearts
what the poet so severely satirized when he said:

    "Folks are so awkward, things so impolite,
    They're elegantly pained from morning until night."

Through that gate of indolence how many men and women have marched, useless on earth, to a
destroyed eternity! Spinola said to Sir Horace Vere: "Of what did your brother die?" "Of having
nothing to do," was the answer. "Ah!" said Spinola, "that's enough to kill any general of us."
Oh! can it be possible in this world, where there is so much suffering to be alleviated, so
much darkness to be enlightened, and so many burdens to be carried, that there is any person
who cannot find anything to do?

Madame de Staël did a world of work in her time; and one day, while she was seated amid instruments
of music, all of which she had mastered, and amid manuscript books which she had written, some
one said to her: "How do you find time to attend to all these things?" "Oh," she replied, "these
are not the things I am proud of. My chief boast is in the fact that I have seventeen trades,
by any one of which I could make a livelihood if necessary." And if in secular spheres there
is so much to be done, in spiritual work how vast the field! How many dying all around about
us without one word of comfort! We want more Abigails, more Hannahs, more Rebeccas, more Marys,
more Deborahs consecrated--body, mind, soul--to the Lord who bought them.

VI. Once more I learn from my subject the value of gleaning.

Ruth going into that harvest-field might have said: "There is a straw, and there is a straw,
but what is a straw? I can't get any barley for myself or my mother-in-law out of these separate
straws." Not so said beautiful Ruth. She gathered two straws, and she put them together, and
more straws, until she got enough to make a sheaf. Putting that down, she went and gathered
more straws, until she had another sheaf, and another, and another, and another, and then she
brought them all together, and she threshed them out, and she had an ephah of barley, nigh
a bushel. Oh, that we might all be gleaners!

Elihu Burritt learned many things while toiling in a blacksmith's shop. Abercrombie, the world-renowned
philosopher, was a philosopher in Scotland, and he got his philosophy, or the chief part of
it, while, as a physician, he was waiting for the door of the sick-room to open. Yet how many
there are in this day who say they are so busy they have no time for mental or spiritual improvement;
the great duties of life cross the field like strong reapers, and carry off all the hours,
and there is only here and there a fragment left, that is not worth gleaning. Ah, my friends,
you could go into the busiest day and busiest week of your life and find golden opportunities,
which, gathered, might at last make a whole sheaf for the Lord's garner. It is the stray opportunities
and the stray privileges which, taken up and bound together and beaten out, will at last fill
you with much joy.

There are a few moments left worth the gleaning. Now, Ruth, to the field! May each one have
a measure full and running over! Oh, you gleaners, to the field! May the Lord God of Ruth and
Naomi be our portion forever!

THE THREE RINGS.

    "Put a ring on his hand."--LUKE xv: 22.

I will not rehearse the familiar story of the fast young man of the parable. You know what
a splendid home he left. You know what a hard time he had. And you remember how after that
season of vagabondage and prodigality he resolved to go and weep out his sorrows on the bosom
of parental forgiveness. Well, there is great excitement one day in front of the door of the
old farmhouse. The servants come rushing up and say: "What's the matter? What is the matter?"
But before they quite arrive, the old man cries out: "Put a ring on his hand." What a seeming
absurdity! What can such a wretched mendicant as this fellow that is tramping on toward the
house want with a ring? Oh, he is the prodigal son. No more tending of the swine-trough. No
more longing for the pods of the carob-tree. No more blistered feet. Off with the rags! On
with the robe! Out with the ring! Even so does God receive every one of us when we come back.
There are gold rings, and pearl rings, and carnelian rings, and diamond rings; but the richest
ring that ever flashed on the vision is that which our Father puts upon a forgiven soul.

I know that the impression is abroad among some people that religion bemeans and belittles
a man; that it takes all the sparkle out of his soul; that he has to exchange a roistering
independence for an ecclesiastical strait-jacket. Not so. When a man becomes a Christian, he
does not go down, he starts upward. Religion multiplies one by ten thousand. Nay, the multiplier
is in infinity. It is not a blotting out--it is a polishing, it is an arborescence, it is an
efflorescence, it is an irradiation. When a man comes into the kingdom of God he is not sent
into a menial service, but the Lord God Almighty from the palaces of heaven calls upon the
messenger angels that wait upon the throne to fly and "put a ring on his hand." In Christ are
the largest liberty, and brightest joy, and highest honor, and richest adornment. "Put a ring
on his hand."

I remark, in the first place, that when Christ receives a soul into His love, He puts upon
him the ring of adoption. Eight or ten years ago, in my church in Philadelphia, there came
the representative of the Howard Mission of New York. He brought with him eight or ten children
of the street that he had picked up, and he was trying to find for them Christian homes; and
as the little ones stood on the pulpit and sung, our hearts melted within us. At the close
of the services a great-hearted wealthy man came up and said: "I'll take this little bright-eyed
girl, and I'll adopt her as one of my own children;" and he took her by the hand, lifted her
into his carriage, and went away.

The next day, while we were in the church gathering up garments for the poor of New York, this
little child came back with a bundle under her arm, and she said: "There's my old dress; perhaps
some of the poor children would like to have it," while she herself was in bright and beautiful
array, and those who more immediately examined her said that she had a ring on her hand. It
was a ring of adoption.

There are a great many persons who pride themselves on their ancestry, and they glory over
the royal blood that pours through their arteries. In their line there was a lord, or a duke,
or a prime minister, or a king. But when the Lord, our Father, puts upon us the ring of His
adoption, we become the children of the Ruler of all nations. It matters not how poor our garments
may be in this world, or how scant our bread, or how mean the hut we live in, if we have that
ring of Christ's adoption upon our hand we are assured of eternal defenses.

Adopted! Why, then, we are brothers and sisters to all the good of earth and heaven. We have
the family name, the family dress, the family keys, the family wardrobe. The Father looks after
us, robes us, defends us, blesses us. We have royal blood in our veins, and there are crowns
in our line. If we are His children, then princes and princesses. It is only a question of
time when we get our coronet. Adopted! Then we have the family secrets. "The secret of the
Lord is with them that fear Him." Adopted! Then we have the family inheritance, and in the
day when our Father shall divide the riches of heaven we shall take our share of the mansions
and palaces and temples. Henceforth let us boast no more of an earthly ancestry. The insignia
of eternal glory is our coat of arms. This ring of adoption puts upon us all honor and all
privilege. Now we can take the words of Charles Wesley, that prince of hymn-makers, and sing:

    "Come, let us join our friends above,
      Who have obtained the prize,
    And on the eagle wings of love
      To joy celestial rise.

    "Let all the saints terrestrial sing
      With those to glory gone;
    For all the servants of our King,
      In heaven and earth, are one."

I have been told that when any of the members of any of the great secret societies of this
country are in a distant city and are in any kind of trouble, and are set upon by enemies,
they have only to give a certain signal and the members of that organization will flock around
for defense. And when any man belongs to this great Christian brotherhood, if he gets in trouble,
in trial, in persecution, in temptation, he has only to show this ring of Christ's adoption,
and all the armed cohorts of heaven will come to his rescue.

Still further, when Christ takes a soul into His love He puts upon it a marriage-ring. (Hosea
ii: 19.) At the wedding altar the bridegroom puts a ring upon the hand of the bride, signifying
love and faithfulness. Trouble may come upon the household, and the carpets may go, the pictures
may go, the piano may go, everything else may go--the last thing that goes is that marriage-ring,
for it is considered sacred. In the burial hour it is withdrawn from the hand and kept in a
casket, and sometimes the box is opened on an anniversary day, and as you look at that ring
you see under its arch a long procession of precious memories. Within the golden circle of
that ring there is room for a thousand sweet recollections to revolve, and you think of the
great contrast between the hour when, at the close of the "Wedding March," under the flashing
lights and amid the aroma of orange-blossoms, you set that ring on the round finger of the
plump hand, and that other hour when, at the close of the exhaustive watching, when you knew
that the soul had fled, you took from the hand, which gave back no responsive clasp, from that
emaciated finger, the ring that she had worn so long and worn so well.

On some anniversary day you take up that ring, and you repolish it until all the old luster
comes back, and you can see in it the flash of eyes that long ago ceased to weep. Oh, it is
not an unmeaning thing when I tell you that when Christ receives a soul into His keeping He
puts on it a marriage-ring. He endows you from that moment with all His wealth. You are one--Christ
and the soul--one in sympathy, one in affection, one in hope.

There is no power in earth or hell to effect a divorcement after Christ and the soul are united.
Other kings have turned out their companions when they got weary of them, and sent them adrift
from the palace gate. Ahasuerus banished Vashti; Napoleon forsook Josephine; but Christ is
the husband that is true forever. Having loved you once, He loves you to the end. Did they
not try to divorce Margaret, the Scotch girl, from Jesus? They said: "You must give up your
religion." She said: "I can't give up my religion." And so they took her down to the beach
of the sea, and they drove in a stake at low-water mark, and they fastened her to it, expecting
that as the tide came up her faith would fail. The tide began to rise, and came up higher and
higher, and to the girdle, and to the lip, and in the last moment, just as the wave was washing
her soul into glory, she shouted the praises of Jesus.

Oh, no, you can not separate a soul from Christ! It is an everlasting marriage. Battle and
storm and darkness can not do it. Glory be to God that when Christ and the soul are married
they are bound by a chain, a golden chain--if I might say so--a chain with one link, and that
one link the golden ring of God's everlasting love.

I go a step further, and tell you that when Christ receives a soul into His love He puts on
him the ring of festivity. You know that it has been the custom in all ages to bestow rings
on very happy occasions. There is nothing more appropriate for a birthday gift than a ring.
You delight to bestow such a gift upon your children at such a time. It means joy, hilarity,
festivity. Well, when this old man of the text wanted to tell how glad he was that his boy
had got back, he expressed it in this way. Actually, before he ordered sandals to be put on
his bare feet; before he ordered the fatted calf to be killed to appease the boy's hunger,
he commanded: "Put a ring on his hand."

Oh, it is a merry time when Christ and the soul are united! Joy of forgiveness! What a splendid
thing it is to feel that all is right between me and God. What a glorious thing it is to have
God just take up all the sins of my life and put them in one bundle, and then fling them into
the depths of the sea, never to rise again, never to be talked of again. Pollution all gone.
Darkness all illumined. God reconciled. The prodigal home. "Put a ring on his hand."

Every day I find happy Christian people. I find some of them with no second coat, some of them
in huts and tenement houses, not one earthly comfort afforded them; and yet they are as happy
as happy can be. They sing "Rock of Ages" as no other people in the world sing it. They never
wore any jewelry in their life but one gold ring, and that was the ring of God's undying affection.
Oh, how happy religion makes us! Did it make you gloomy and sad? Did you go with your head
cast down? I do not think you got religion, my brother. That is not the effect of religion.
True religion is a joy. "Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace."

Why, religion lightens all our burdens. It smooths all our way. It interprets all our sorrows.
It changes the jar of earthly discord for the peal of festal bells. In front of the flaming
furnace of trial it sets the forge on which scepters are hammered out. Would you not like to-day
to come up from the swine-feeding and try this religion? All the joys of heaven would come
out and meet you, and God would cry from the throne: "Put a ring on his hand."

You are not happy. I see it. There is no peace, and sometimes you laugh when you feel a great
deal more like crying. The world is a cheat. It first wears you down with its follies, then
it kicks you out into darkness. It comes back from the massacre of a million souls to attempt
the destruction of your soul to-day. No peace out of God, but here is the fountain that can
slake the thirst. Here is the harbor where you can drop safe anchorage.

Would you not like, I ask you--not perfunctorily, but as one brother might talk to another--would
you not like to have a pillow of rest to put your head on? And would you not like, when you
retire at night, to feel that all is well, whether you wake up to-morrow morning at six o'clock,
or sleep the sleep that knows no waking? Would you not like to exchange this awful uncertainty
about the future for a glorious assurance of heaven? Accept of the Lord Jesus to-day, and all
is well. If on your way home some peril should cross the street and dash your life out, it
would not hurt you. You would rise up immediately. You would stand in the celestial streets.
You would be amid the great throng that forever worship and are forever happy. If this day
some sudden disease should come upon you, it would not frighten you. If you knew you were going
you could give a calm farewell to your beautiful home on earth, and know that you are going
right into the companionship of those who have already got beyond the toiling and the weeping.

You feel on Saturday night different from the way you feel any other night of the week. You
come home from the bank, or the store, or the shop, and you say: "Well, now my week's work
is done, and to-morrow is Sunday." It is a pleasant thought. There is refreshment and reconstruction
in the very idea. Oh, how pleasant it will be, if, when we get through the day of our life,
and we go and lie down in our bed of dust, we can realize: "Well, now the work is all done,
and to-morrow is Sunday--an everlasting Sunday."

There are people in this house to-day who are very near the eternal world. If you are Christians,
I bid you be of good cheer. Bear with you our congratulations to the bright city. Aged men,
who will soon be gone, take with you our love for our kindred in the better land, and when
you see them, tell them that we are soon coming. Only a few more sermons to preach and hear.
Only a few more heart-aches. Only a few more toils. Only a few more tears. And then--what an
entrancing spectacle will open before us!

    "Beautiful heaven, where all is light,
    Beautiful angels clothed in white,
    Beautiful strains that never tire,
    Beautiful harps through all the choir;
    There shall I join the chorus sweet,
    Worshiping at the Saviour's feet."

I stand before you on this Sabbath, the last Sabbath preceding the great feast-day in this
Church. On the next Lord's-day the door of communion will be open, and you will all be invited
to come in. And so I approach you now with a general invitation, not picking out here and there
a man, or here and there a woman, or here and there a child; but giving you an unlimited invitation,
saying: "Come, for all things are now ready." We invite you to the warm heart of Christ, and
the inclosure of the Christian Church. I know a great many think that the Church does not amount
to much--that it is obsolete; that it did its work and is gone now, so far as all usefulness
is concerned. It is the happiest place I have ever been in except my own home.

I know there are some people who say they are Christians who seem to get along without any
help from others, and who culture solitary piety. They do not want any ordinances. I do not
belong to that class. I can not get along without them. There are so many things in this world
that take my attention from God, and Christ, and heaven, that I want all the helps of all the
symbols and of all the Christian associations; and I want around about me a solid phalanx of
men who love God and keep His commandments. Are there any here who would like to enter into
that association? Then by a simple, child-like faith, apply for admission into the visible
Church, and you will be received. No questions asked about your past history or present surroundings.
Only one test--do you love Jesus?

Baptism does not amount to anything, say a great many people; but the Lord Jesus declared,
"He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved," putting baptism and faith side by side.
And an apostle declares, "Repent and be baptized, every one of you." I do not stickle for any
particular mode of baptism, but I put great emphasis on the fact that you ought to be baptized.
Yet no more emphasis than the Lord Jesus Christ, the Great Head of the Church, puts upon it.

The world is going to lose a great many of its votaries next Sabbath. We give you warning.
There is a great host coming in to stand under the banner of the Lord Jesus Christ. Will you
be among them? It is going to be a great harvest-day. Will you be among the gathered sheaves?

Some of you have been thinking on this subject year after year. You have found out that this
world is a poor portion. You want to be Christians. You have come almost into the kingdom of
God; but there you stop, forgetful of the fact that to be almost saved is not to be saved at
all. Oh, my brother, after having come so near to the door of mercy, if you turn back, you
will never come at all. After all you have heard of the goodness of God, if you turn away and
die, it will not be because you did not have a good offer.

    "God's spirit will not always strive
      With hardened, self-destroying man;
    Ye who persist His love to grieve
      May never hear his voice again."

May God Almighty this hour move upon your soul and bring you back from the husks of the wilderness
to the Father's house, and set you at the banquet, and "put a ring on your hand."

HOW HE CAME TO SAY IT.

    "If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be
    Anathema Maranatha."--I COR. xvi: 22.

The smallest lad in the house knows the meaning of all those words except the last two, Anathema
Maranatha. Anathema, to cut off. Maranatha, at His coming. So the whole passage might be read:
"If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be cut off at His coming." Well, how could
the tender-hearted Paul say that? We have seen him with tears discoursing about human want,
and flushed with excitement about human sorrow; and now he throws those red-hot iron words
into this letter to the Corinthians. Had he lost his patience? Ok, no. Had he resigned his
confidence in the Christian religion? Oh, no. Had the world treated him so badly that he had
become its sworn enemy? Oh, no. It needs some explanation, I confess, and I shall proceed to
show by what process Paul came to the vehement utterance of my text. Before I close, if God
shall give His Spirit, you shall cease to be surprised at the exclamation of the Apostle, and
you yourselves will employ the same emphasis, declaring, "If any man love not the Lord Jesus
Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha."

If the photographic art had been discovered early enough, we should have had the facial proportions
of Christ--the front face, the side face, Jesus sitting, Jesus standing--provided He had submitted
to that art; but since the sun did not become a portrait painter until eighteen centuries after
Christ, our idea about the Saviour's personal appearance is all guess work. Still, tradition
tells us that He was the most infinitely beautiful being that ever walked our small earth.
If His features had been rugged, and His gait had been ungainly, that would not have hindered
Him from being attractive. Many men you have known and loved have had few charms of physiognomy.
Wilberforce was not attractive in face. Socrates was repulsive. Suwarrow, the great Russian
hero, looked almost an imbecile. And some whom you have known, and honored, and loved, have
not had very great attractiveness of personal appearance. The shape of the mouth, and the nose,
and the eyebrow, did not hinder the soul from shining through the cuticle of the face in all-powerful
irradiation.

But to a lovely exterior Christ joined all loveliness of disposition. Run through the galleries
of heaven, and find out that He is a non-such. The sunshine of His love mingling with the shadows
of His sorrows, crossed by the crystalline stream of His tears and the crimson flowing forth
of His blood, make a picture worthy of being called the masterpiece of the eternities. Hung
on the wall of heaven, the celestial population would be enchanted but for the fact that they
have the grand and magnificent original, and they want no picture. But Christ having gone away
from earth, we are dependent upon four indistinct pictures. Matthew took one, Mark another,
Luke another, and John another. I care not which picture you take, it is lovely. Lovely? He
was altogether lovely.

He had a way of taking up a dropsical limb without hurting it, and of removing the cataract
from the eye without the knife, and of starting the circulation through the shrunken arteries
without the shock of the electric battery, and of putting intelligence into the dull stare
of lunacy, and of restringing the auditory nerve of the deaf ear, and of striking articulation
into the stiff tongue, and of making the stark-naked madman dress himself and exchange tombstone
for ottoman, and of unlocking from the skeleton grip of death the daughter of Jairus to embosom
her in her glad father's arms. Oh, He was lovely--sitting, standing, kneeling, lying down--always
lovely.

Lovely in His sacrifice. Why, He gave up everything for us. Home, celestial companionship,
music of seraphic harps, balmy breath of eternal summer, all joy, all light, all music, and
heard the gates slam shut behind Him as He came out to fight for our freedom, and with bare
feet plunged on the sharp javelins of human and satanic hate, until His blood spurted into
the faces of those who slew Him. You want the soft, low, minor key of sweetest music to describe
the pathos; but it needs an orchestra, under swinging of an archangel's baton, reaching from
throne to manger, to drum and trumpet the doxologies of His praise. He took everybody's trouble--the
leper's sickness, the widow's dead boy, the harlot's shame, the Galilean fisherman's poor luck,
the invalidism of Simon's mother-in-law, the sting of Malchus' amputated ear.

Some people cry very easily, and for some it is very difficult to cry. A great many tears on
some cheeks do not mean so much as one tear on another cheek. What is it that I see glittering
in the mild eye of Jesus? It was all the sorrows of earth, and the woes of hell, from which
He had plucked our souls, accreted into one transparent drop, lingering on the lower eyelash
until it fell on a cheek red with the slap of human hands--just one salt, bitter, burning tear
of Jesus. No wonder the rock, the sky, and the cemetery were in consternation when He died!
No wonder the universe was convulsed! It was the Lord God Almighty bursting into tears. Now,
suppose that, notwithstanding all this, a man can not have any affection for Him. What ought
to be done with such hard behavior?

It seems to me that there ought to be some chastisement for a man who will not love such a
Christ. Does it not make your blood tingle to think of Jesus coming over the tens of thousands
of miles that seem to separate God from us, and then to see a man jostle Him out, and push
Him back, and shut the door in His face, and trample upon His entreaties? While you may not
be able to rise up to the towering excitement of the Apostle in my text, you can at any rate
somewhat understand his feelings when he cried out: "After all this, 'if a man love not the
Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha.'"

Just look at the injustice of not loving Him. Now, there is nothing that excites a man like
injustice. You go along the street, and you see your little child buffeted, or a ruffian comes
and takes a boy's hat and throws it into the ditch. You say: "What great meanness, what injustice
that is!" You can not stand injustice. I remember, in my boyhood days, attending a large meeting
in Tripler Hall, New York. Thousands of people were huzzaing, and the same kind of audiences
were assembled at the same time in Boston, Edinburgh, and London. Why? Because the Madaii family,
in Italy, had been robbed of their Bible. "A little thing," you say. Ah, that injustice was
enough to arouse the indignation of a world. But while we are so sensitive about injustice
as between man and man, how little sensitive we are about injustice between man and God. If
there ever was a fair and square purchase of anything, then Christ purchased us. He paid for
us, not in shekels, not in ancient coins inscribed with effigies of Hercules, or Ægina's tortoise,
or lyre of Mitylene, but in two kinds of coin--one red, the other glittering--blood and tears!
If anything is purchased and paid for, ought not the goods to be delivered? If you have bought
property and given the money, do you not want to come into possession of it? "Yes," you say,
"I will have it. I bought and paid for it." And you will go to law for it, and you will denounce
the man as a defrauder. Ay, if need be, you will hurl him into jail. You will say: "I am bound
to get that property. I bought it. I paid for it!"

Now, transpose the case. Suppose Jesus Christ to be the wronged purchaser on the one side,
and the impenitent soul on the other, trying to defraud Him of that which He bought at such
an exorbitant price, how do you feel about that injustice? How do you feel toward that spiritual
fraud, turpitude and perfidy? A man with an ardent temperament rises and he says that such
injustice as between man and man is bad enough, but between man and God it is reprehensible
and intolerable, and he brings his fist down on the pew, and he says: "I can stand this injustice
no longer. After all this purchase, 'if any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be
Anathema Maranatha'!"

I go still further, and show you how suicidal it is for a man not to love Christ. If a man
gets in trouble, and he can not get out, we have only one feeling toward him--sympathy and
a desire to help him. If he has failed for a vast amount of money, and can not pay more than
ten cents on a dollar--ay, if he can not pay anything--though his creditors may come after
him like a pack of hounds, we sympathize with him. We go to his store, or house, and we express
our condolence. But suppose the day before that man failed, William E. Dodge had come into
his store and said: "My friend, I hear you are in trouble. I have come to help you. If ten
thousand dollars will see you through your perplexity, I have a loan of that amount for you.
Here is a check for the amount of that loan." Suppose the man said: "With that ten thousand
dollars I could get through until next spring, and then everything will be all right; but,
Mr. Dodge, I don't want it; I won't take it; I would rather fail than take it; I don't even
thank you for offering it." Your sympathy for that man would cease immediately. You would say:
"He had a fair offer; he might have got out; he wants to fail; he refuses all help; now let
him fail." There is no one in all this house who would have any sympathy for that man.

But do not let us be too hasty. Christ hears of our spiritual embarrassments, he finds that
we are on the very verge of eternal defalcation. He finds the law knocking at our door with
this dun: "Pay me what thou owest."

We do not know which way to turn. Pay? We can not pay a farthing of all the millions of obligation.
Well, Christ comes in and says: "Here is My name; you can use My name. Your name would be worthless,
but My red handwriting on the back of this obligation will get you through anywhere." Now suppose
the soul says: "I know I am in debt; I can't meet these obligations either in time or eternity;
but, oh, Christ, I want not Thy help; I ask not Thy rescue. Go away from me." You would say:
"That man, why, he deserves to die. He had the offer of help; he would not take it. He is a
free agent; he ought to have what he wants; he chooses death rather than life. Ought you not
give him freedom of choice?" Though awhile ago there was only one ardent man who understood
the Apostle, now there are hundreds in the house who can say, and do say within themselves:
"After all this ingratitude, and rejection, and obstinacy, 'if any man love not the Lord Jesus
Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha.'"

I go a step further, and say it is most cruel for a man not to love Jesus. The meanest thing
I could do for you would be needlessly to hurt your feelings. Sharp words sometimes cut like
a dagger. An unkind look will sometimes rive like the lightning. An unkind deed may overmaster
a sensitive spirit, and if you have made up your mind that you have done wrong to any one,
it does not take you two minutes to make up your mind to go and apologize. Now, Christ is a
bundle of delicacy and sensitiveness. How you have shocked His nerves! How you have broken
His heart!

Did you, my brother, ever measure the meaning of that one passage: "Behold, I stand at the
door and knock"? It never came to me as it did this morning while I was thinking on this subject.
"Behold, I stand at the door and knock." Some January day, the thermometer five degrees below
zero, the wind and sleet beating mercilessly against you, you go up the steps of a house where
you have a very important errand. You knock with one knuckle. No answer. You are very earnest,
and you are freezing. The next time you knock harder. After awhile with your fist you beat
against the door. You must get in, but the inmate is careless or stubborn, and he does not
want you in. Your errand is a failure. You go away.

The Lord Jesus Christ comes up on the steps of your heart, and with very sore hand he knocks
hard at the door of your soul. He is standing in the cold blasts of human suffering. He knocks.
He says: "Let me in. I have come a great way. I have come all the way from Nazareth, from Bethlehem,
from Golgotha. Let Me in. I am shivering and blue with the cold. Let Me in. My feet are bare
but for their covering of blood. My head is uncovered but for a turban of brambles. By all
these wounds of foot, and head, and heart, I beg you to let Me in. Oh, I have been here a great
while, and the night is getting darker. I am faint with hunger. I am dying to get in. Oh, lift
the latch--shove back the bolt! Won't you let Me in? Won't you? 'Behold, I stand at the door
and knock!'"

But after awhile, my brother, the scene will change. It will be another door, but Christ will
be on the other side of it. He will be on the inside, and the rejected sinner will be on the
outside, and the sinner will come up and knock at the door, and say: "Let me in, let me in.
I have come a great way. I came all the way from earth. I am sick and dying. Let me in. The
merciless storm beats my unsheltered head. The wolves of a great night are on my track. Let
me in. With both fists I beat against this door. Oh, let me in. Oh, Christ, let me in. Oh,
Holy Ghost, let me in. Oh, God, let me in. Oh, my glorified kindred, let me in." No answer
save the voice of Christ, who shall say: "Sinner, when I stood at your door you would not let
Me in, and now you are standing at My door, and I can not let you in. The day of your grace
is past. Officer of the law, seize him." And while the arrest is going on, all the myriads
of heaven rise on gallery and throne, and cry with loud voice, that makes the eternal city
quake from capstone to foundation, saying: "If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let
him be Anathema Maranatha."

Sabbath audience in the Brooklyn Tabernacle, and all to whom these words shall come on both
sides the sea, notice here the tremendous alternative: it is not whether you live in Pierrepont
Street or Carlton Avenue, walk Trafalgar Square or the "Canongate;" nor whether your dress
shall be black or brown; nor whether you shall be robust or an invalid; nor whether you shall
live on the banks of the Hudson, the Shannon, the Seine, the Thames, the Tiber; but it is a
question whether you will love Christ or suffer banishment; whether you will give yourselves
to Him who owns you or fall under the millstone; whether you will rise to glories that have
no terminus or plunge to a depth which has no bottom. I do not see how you can take the ten-thousandth
part of a second to decide it, when there are two worlds fastened at opposite ends of a swivel,
and the swivel turns on one point, and that point is now, now. Is it not fair that you love
Him? Is it not right that you love Him? Is it not imperative that you love Him? What is it
that keeps you from rushing up and throwing the arms of your affection about His neck?

My text pronounces Anathema Maranatha upon all those who refuse to love Christ. Anathema--cut
off. Cut off from light, from hope, from peace, from heaven. Oh, sharp, keen, sword-like words!
Cut off! Everlastingly cut off! Behold, therefore, the goodness and severity of God: on them
which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in His goodness; otherwise
thou also shalt be cut off. Maranatha--that is the other word. "When he comes" is the meaning
of it.

Will He come? I see no signs of it. I looked into the sky as I rode down to church. I saw no
signs of the coming. No signal of God's appearance. The earth stands solid on its foundation.
No cry of welcome or of woe. Will He come! He will. Maranatha! Hear it ye mountains, and prepare
to fall. Ye cities, and prepare to burn. Ye righteous, and prepare to reign. Ye wicked, and
prepare to die. Maranatha! Maranatha!

But, oh, my brother, I am not so aroused by that coming as I am by a previous coming, and that
is the coming of our death hour, which will fix everything for us. I can not help now, while
preaching, asking myself the question--Am I ready for that? If I am ready for the first I will
be ready for the next. Are you ready for the emergency? Shall I tell you when your death hour
will come? "Oh, no," says some one, "I don't want to know. I would rather not know." Some one
says: "I would rather know, if you can tell me." I will tell you. It will be at the most unexpected
moment, when you are most busy, and when you think you can be least spared. I can not exactly
say whether it will be in the noon, or at the sundown when people are coming home, or in the
morning when the world is waking up, or while the clock is striking twelve at night. But I
tell you what I think, that with some of you it will be before next Saturday night.

A minister of the Gospel said to an audience: "Before next Sabbath some of you will be gone."
And a man said during the week: "I shall watch now, and if no one dies in our congregation
during this week I shall go and tell the minister his falsehood." A man standing next to him
said: "Why, it may be yourself." "Oh, no," he replied; "I shall live on to be an old man."
That night he breathed his last.

Standing before some who shall be launched into the great eternity, what are your equipments?
About to jump, where will you land? Oh, the subject is overwhelming to me; and when I say these
things to you, I say them to myself. "Lord, is it I? Is it I?" Some of us part to-night never
to meet again. If never before, I now here commit my soul into the keeping of the Lord Jesus
Christ. I throw my sinful heart upon His infinite mercy. But some of you will not do that.
You will go over to the store to-morrow, and your comrades will say: "Where were you yesterday?"
You will say: "I heard Talmage preach, and I don't believe what he preaches." And you will
go on and die in your sins.

Feeling that you are bound unto death eternal I solemnly take leave of you. Be careful of your
health, for when your respiration gives out all your good times will have ended. Be careful
in walking near a scaffold, for one falling brick or stone might usher you into the great eternity
for which you have no preparation. A few months, or weeks, or days, or hours will pass on,
and then you will see the last light, and hear the last music, and have the last pleasant emotion,
and a destroyed eternity will rush upon you. Farewell, oh, doomed spirit! As you shove off
from hope, I wave you this last salutation. Oh, it is hard to part forever and forever! I bid
you one long, last, bitter, eternal adieu!

CASTLE JESUS.

    "Who have fled for refuge."--HEB. vi: 18.

Paul is here speaking of the consolations of Christians. He styles them these "who have fled
for refuge."

Moses established six cities of refuge--three on the east side of the river Jordan, and three
on the west. When a man had killed any one accidentally he fled to one of these cities. The
roads leading to them were kept perfectly good, so that when a man started for the refuge nothing
might impede him. Along the cross-roads, and wherever there might be any mistake about the
way, there were signs put up pointing in the right way, with the word "Refuge." Having gained
the limits of one of these cities the man was safe, and the mothers of the priests provided
for him.

Some of us have seen our peril, and have fled to Christ, and feel that we shall never be captured.
We are among those "who have fled for refuge." Christ is represented in the Bible as a Tower,
a High Rock, a Fortress, and a Shelter. If you have seen any of the ancient castles of Europe,
you know that they are surrounded by trenches, across which there is a draw-bridge. If an enemy
approach, the people, for defense, would get into the castle, have the trenches filled with
water, and lift up the draw-bridge. Whether to a city of safety, or a tower, Paul refers, I
know not, and care not, for in any case he means Christ, the safety of the soul.

But why talk of refuge? Who needs it, if the refuge spoken of be a city or a castle, into which
men fly for safety? It is all sunlight here. No sound of war in our streets. We do not hear
the rush of armed men against the doors of our dwellings. We do not come with weapons to church.
Our lives are not at the mercy of an assassin. Why, then, talk of refuge?

Alas! I stand before a company of imperiled men. No flock of sheep was ever so threatened or
endangered of a pack of wolves; no ship was ever so beaten of a storm; no company of men were
ever so environed of a band of savages. A refuge you must have, or fall before an all-devouring
destruction. There are not so many serpents in Africa; there are not so many hyenas in Asia;
there are not so many panthers in the forest, as there are transgressions attacking my soul.
I will take the best unregenerated man anywhere, and say to him, You are utterly corrupt. If
all the sins of your past life were marshaled in single file, they would reach from here to
hell. If you have escaped all other sins, the fact that you have rejected the mission of the
Son of God is enough to condemn you forever, pushing you off into bottomless darkness, struck
by ten thousand hissing thunder-bolts of Omnipotent wrath.

You are a sinner. The Bible says it, and your conscience affirms it. Not a small sinner, or
a moderate sinner, or a tolerable sinner, but a great sinner, a protracted sinner, a vile sinner,
an outrageous sinner, a condemned sinner. As God, with His all-scrutinizing gaze, looks upon
you to-day, He can not find one sound spot in your soul. Sin has put scales on your eyes, and
deadened your ear with an awful deafness, and palsied your right arm, and stunned your sensibilities,
and blasted you with an infinite blasting. The Bible, which you admit to be true, affirms that
you are diseased from the crown of your head to the sole of your foot. You are unclean; you
are a leper. Believe not me, but believe God's Word, that over and over again announces, in
language that a fool might understand, the total and complete depravity of the unchanged heart:
"The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked."

In addition to the sins of your life there are uncounted troubles in pursuit of you. Bereavements,
losses, disappointments are a flock of vultures ever on the wing. Did you get your house built,
and furnished, and made comfortable any sooner than misfortune came in without knocking, and
sat beside you--a skeleton apparition? Have not pains shot their poisoned arrows, and fevers
kindled their fire in your brain? Many of you, for years, have walked on burning marl. You
stepped out of one disaster into another. You may, like Job, have cursed the day in which you
were born. This world boils over with trouble for you, and you are wondering where the next
grave will gape, and where the next storm will burst. Oh, ye pursued, sinning, dying, troubled,
exhausted souls, are you not ready now to hear me while I tell you of Christ, the Refuge?

A soldier, during the war, heard of the sickness of his wife and asked for a furlough. It was
denied him, and he ran away. He was caught, brought back, and sentenced to be shot as a deserter.
The officer took from his pocket a document that announced his death on the following morning.
As the document was read, the man flinched not and showed no sorrow or anxiety. But the officer
then took from his pocket another document that contained the prisoner's pardon. Then he broke
down with deep emotion at the thought of the leniency that had been extended. Though you may
not appear moved while I tell you of the law that thundered its condemnation, while I tell
you of the pardon and the peace of the Gospel I wonder if they will not overcome you.

Jesus is a safe refuge. Fort Hudson, Fort Pulaski, Fort Moultrie, Fort Sumter, Gibraltar, Sebastopol
were taken. But Jesus is a castle into which the righteous runneth and is safe. No battering-ram
can demolish its wall. No sappers or miners can explode its ramparts, no storm-bolt of perdition
leap upon its towers. The weapons that guard this fort are omnipotent. Hell shall unlimber
its great guns as death only to have them dismantled. In Christ our sins are pardoned, discomforted,
blotted out, forgiven. An ocean can not so easily drown a fly as the ocean of God's forgiveness
swallow up, utterly and forever, our transgressions. He is able to save unto the uttermost.

You who have been so often overcome in a hand-to-hand fight with the world, the flesh, and
devil, try this fortress. Once here, you are safe forever. Satan may charge up the steep, and
shout amid the uproar of the fight, Forward, to his battalions of darkness; but you will stand
in the might of the great God, your Redeemer, safe in the refuge. The troubles of life, that
once overwhelmed you, may come on with their long wagon-trains laden with care and worryment;
and you may hear in their tramp the bereavements that once broke your heart; but Christ is
your friend, Christ your sympathizer, Christ your reward. Safe in the refuge!

Death at last may lay the siege to your spirit, and the shadows of the sepulcher may shake
their horrors in the breeze, and the hoarse howl of the night wind may be mingled with the
cry of despair, yet you will shout in triumph from the ramparts, and the pale horse shall be
hurled back on his haunches. Safe in the refuge! To this castle I fly. This last fire shall
but illumine its towers; and the rolling thunders of the judgment will be the salvo of its victory.

Just after Queen Victoria had been crowned--she being only nineteen or twenty years of age--Wellington
handed her a death-warrant for her signature. It was to take the life of a soldier in the army.
She said to Wellington: "Can there nothing good be said of this man?" He said: "No; he is a
bad soldier, and deserves to die." She took up the death-warrant, and it trembled in her hand
as she again asked: "Does no one know anything good of this man?" Wellington said: "I have
heard that at his trial a man said that he had been a good son to his old mother." "Then let
his life be spared," said the queen, and she ordered his sentence commuted.

Christ is on a throne of grace. Our case is brought before him. The question is asked: "Is
there any good about this man?" The law says: "None." Justice says: "None." Our own conscience
says: "None." Nevertheless, Christ hands over our pardon, and asks us to take it. Oh, the height
and depth, the length and breadth of his mercy!

Again, Christ is a near refuge. When we are attacked, what advantage is there in having a fortress
on the other side of the mountain? Many an army has had an intrenchment, but could not get
to it before the battle opened. Blessed be God, it is no long march to our castle. We may get
off, with all our troops, from the worst earthly defeat in this stronghold. In a moment we
may step from the battle into the tower. I sing of a Saviour near.

During the late war the forts of the North were named after the Northern generals, and the
forts of the South were named after the Southern generals. This fortress of our soul I shall
call Castle Jesus. I have seen men pursued of sins that chased them with feet of lightning,
and yet with one glad leap they bounded into the tower. I have seen troubles, with more than
the speed and terror of a cavalry troop, dash after a retreating soul, yet were hurled back
in defeat from the bulwarks. Jesus near! A child's cry, a prisoner's prayer, a sailor's death-shriek,
a pauper's moan reaches him. No pilgrimages on spikes. No journeying with a huge pack on your
back. No kneeling in penance in cold vestibule of mercy. But an open door! A compassionate
Saviour! A present salvation! A near refuge! Castle Jesus!

Oh, why do you not put out your arm and reach it? Why do you not fly to it? Why be riddled,
and shelled, and consumed under the rattling bombardment of perdition, when one moment's faith
would plant you in the glorious refuge? I preach a Jesus here; a Jesus now; a fountain close
to your feet; a fiery pillar right over your head; bread already broken for your hunger; a
crown already gleaming for your brow. Hark to the castle gates rattling back for your entrance!
Hear you not the welcome of those who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us?

Again, it is a universal refuge. A fortress is seldom large enough to hold a whole army. I
look out upon fourteen hundred millions of the race; and then I look at this fortress, and
I say that there is room enough for all. If it had been possible, this salvation would have
been monopolized. Men would have said: "Let us have all this to ourselves--no publicans, no
plebeians, no lazzaroni, no converted pickpockets. We will ride toward heaven on fierce chargers,
our feet in golden stirrups. Grace for lords, and dukes, and duchesses, and counts. Let Napoleon
and his marshals come in, but not the common soldier that fought under him. Let the Girards
and the Barings come in, but not the stevedores that unloaded their cargoes, or the men who
kept their books." Heaven would have been a glorified Windsor Castle, or Tuileries, or Vatican;
and exclusive aristocrats would have strutted through the golden streets to all eternity.

Thank God, there is mercy for the poor! The great Doctor John Mason preached over a hundred
times the same sermon; and the text was: "To the poor the Gospel is preached." Lazarus went
up, while Dives went down; and there are candidates for Imperial splendors in the back alley,
and by the peat-fire of the Irish shanty. King Jesus set up His throne in a manger, and made
a resurrection day for the poor widow of Nain, and sprung the gate of heaven wide open, so
that all the beggars, and thieves, and scoundrels of the universe may come in if they will
only repent. I can snatch the knife from the murderer's hand while it is yet dripping with
the blood of his victim, and tell him of the grace that is sufficient to pardon his soul. Do
you say that I swing open the gate of heaven too far? I swing it open no wider than Christ,
when He says: "Whosoever will, let him come." Don't you want to go in with such a rabble? Then
you can stay out.

The whole world will yet come into this refuge. The windows of heaven will be opened; God's
trumpet of salvation will sound, and China will come from its tea-fields and rice-harvests,
and lift itself up into the light. India will come forth, the chariots of salvation jostling
to pieces her Juggernauts. Freezing Greenland, and sweltering Abyssinia, will, side by side,
press into the kingdom; and transformed Bornesian cannibal preach of the resurrection of the
missionary he has slain. The glory of Calvary will tinge the tip of the Pyrenees; and Lebanon
cedars shall clap their hands; and by one swing of the sickle Christ shall harvest nations
for the skies.

I sing a world redeemed. In the rush of the winds that set the forest in motion, like giants
wrestling on the hills, I see the tossing up of the triumphal branches that shall wave all
along the line of our King as He comes to take empire. In the stormy diapason of the ocean's
organ, and the more gentle strains that in the calm come sounding up from the crystal and jasper
keys at the beach, I hear the prophecy: "The earth shall be filled with the knowledge of God
as the waters fill the sea."

The gospel morning will come like the natural morning. At first it seems only like another
hue of the night. Then a pallor strikes through the sky, as though a company of ministering
spirits, pale with tedious watching through the night, had turned in their flight upward to
look back upon the earth. Then a faint glow of fire, as though on a barren beach a wrecked
mariner was kindling a flickering flame. Then chariots and horses of fire racing up and down
the heavens; then perfect day: "Who is she that cometh forth as the morning?"

Come in, black Hottentot and snow-white Caucasian, come in, mitered official and diseased beggar;
let all the world come in. Room in Castle Jesus! Sound it through all lands; sound it by all
tongues. Let sermons preach it, and bells chime it, and pencils sketch it, and processions
celebrate it, and bells ring it: Room in Castle Jesus!

Again, Christ is the only refuge. If you were very sick, and there was only one medicine that
would cure you, how anxious you would be to get that medicine. If you were in a storm at sea,
and you found that the ship could not weather it, and there was only one harbor, how anxious
you would be to get into that harbor. Oh, sin-sick soul, Christ is the only medicine; oh, storm-tossed
soul, Christ is the only harbor. Need I tell a cultured audience like this that there is no
other name given among men by which ye can be saved? That if you want the handcuffs knocked
from your wrists, and the hopples from your feet, and the icy bands from your heart, there
is just one Almighty arm in all the universe to do everything? There are other fortresses to
which you might fly, and other ramparts behind which you might hide, but God will cut to pieces,
with the hail of His vengeance, all these refuges of lies.

Some of you are foundering in terrible Euroclydon. Hark to the howling of the gale, and the
splintering of the spars, and the starting of the timbers, and the breaking of the billow,
clear across the hurricane deck. Down she goes! Into the life-boat! Quick! One boat! One shore!
One oarsman! One salvation! You are polluted; there is but one well at which you can wash clean.
You are enslaved; there is but one proclamation that can emancipate. You are blind; there is
but one salve that can kindle your vision. You are dead; there is but one trumpet that can
burst the grave.

I have seen men come near the refuge but not make entrance. They came up, and fronted the gate,
and looked in, but passed on, and passed down; and they will curse their folly through all
eternity, that they despised the only refuge. Oh! forget everything else I have said, if you
will but remember that there is but one atonement, one sacrifice, one justification, one faith,
one hope, one Jesus, one refuge. There is that old Christian. Many a scar on his face tells
where trouble lacerated him. He has fought with wild beasts at Ephesus. He has had enough misfortune
to shadow his countenance with perpetual despair. Yet he is full of hope. Has he found any
new elixir? "No," he says; "I have found Jesus the refuge."

Christ is our only defense at the last. John Holland, in his concluding moment, swept his hand
over the Bible, and said: "Come, let us gather a few flowers from this garden." As it was even-time
he said to his wife: "Have you lighted the candles?" "No," she said; "we have not lighted the
candles." "Then," said he, "it must be the brightness of the face of Jesus that I see."

Ask that dying Christian woman the source of her comfort. Why that supernatural glow on the
curtains of the death-chamber; and the tossing out of one hand, as if to wave the triumph,
and the reaching up of the other, as if to take a crown? Hosanna on the tongue. Glory beaming
from the forehead. Heaven in the eyes. Spirit departing. Wings to bear it. Anthems to charm
it. Open the gates to receive it. Hallelujah! Speak, dying Christian--what light do you see?
What sounds do you hear? The thin lips part. The pale hand is lifted. She says: "Jesus the
refuge!" Let all in the death-chamber stop weeping now. Celebrate the triumph. Take up a song.
Clap your hands. Shout it. Hallelujah! Hallelujah!

But this refuge will be of no worth to you unless you lay hold of it. The time will come when
you will wish that you had done so. It will come soon. At an unexpected moment it will come.
The castle bridge will be drawn up and the fortress closed. When you see this discomfiture,
and look back, and look up at the storm gathering, and the billowy darkness of death has rolled
upon the sheeted flash of the storm, you will discover the utter desolation of those who are
outside of the refuge.

What you propose to do in this matter you had better do right away. A mistake this morning
may never be corrected. Jesus, the Great Captain of salvation, puts forth his wounded hand
to-day to cheer you on the race to heaven. If you despise it, the ghastliest vision that will
haunt the eternal darkness of your soul will be the gaping, bleeding wounds of the dying Redeemer.

Jesus is to be crucified to-day. Think not of it as a day that is past. He comes before you
to-day weary and worn. Here is the cross, and here is the victim. But there are no nails, and
there are no thorns, and there are no hammers. Who will furnish these? A man out yonder says:
"I will furnish with my sins the nails!" Now we have the cross, and the victim, and the nails.
But we have no thorns. Who will furnish the thorns? A man in the audience says: "With my sins
I will furnish the thorns!" Now we have the cross, the victim, the nails, and the thorns. But
we have no hammers. Who will furnish the hammers? A voice in the audience says: "My hard heart
shall be the hammer!" Everything is ready now. The crucifixion goes out! See Jesus dying! "Behold
the Lamb of God, that taketh away the sins of the world."

STRIPPING THE SLAIN.

Some of you were at South Mountain, or Shiloh, or Ball's Bluff, or Gettysburg, and I ask you
if there is any sadder sight than a battle-field after the guns have stopped firing? I walked
across the field of Antietam just after the conflict. The scene was so sickening I shall not
describe it. Every valuable thing had been taken from the bodies of the dead, for there are
always vultures hovering over and around about an army, and they pick up the watches, and the
memorandum books, and the letters, and the daguerreotypes, and the hats, and the coats, applying
them to their own uses. The dead make no resistance. So there are always camp followers going
on and after an army, as when Scott went down into Mexico, as when Napoleon marched up toward
Moscow, as when Von Moltke went to Sedan. There is a similar scene in my text.

Saul and his army had been horribly cut to pieces. Mount Gilboa was ghastly with the dead.
On the morrow the stragglers came on to the field, and they lifted the latchet of the helmet
from under the chin of the dead, and they picked up the swords and bent them on their knee
to test the temper of the metal, and they opened the wallets and counted the coin. Saul lay
dead along the ground, eight or nine feet in length, and I suppose the cowardly Philistines,
to show their bravery, leaped upon the trunk of his carcass, and jeered at the fallen slain,
and whistled through the mouth of the helmet.

Before I get through to-day I will show you that the same process is going on all the world
over, and every day, and that when men have fallen, Satan and the world, so far from pitying
them or helping them, go to work remorselessly to take what little is left, thus stripping
the slain.

There are tens of thousands of young men every year coming from the country to our great cities.
They come with brave hearts and grand expectations. They think they will be Rufus Choates in
the law, or Drapers in chemistry, or A.T. Stewarts in merchandise. The country lads sit down
in the village grocery, with their feet on the iron rod around the red-hot stove, in the evening,
talking over the prospects of the young man who has gone off to the city. Two or three of them
think that perhaps he may get along very well and succeed, but the most of them prophesy failure;
for it is very hard to think that those whom we knew in boyhood will ever make any stir in
the world.

But our young man has a fine position in a dry-goods store. The month is over. He gets his
wages. He is not accustomed to have so much money belonging to himself. He is a little excited,
and does not know exactly what to do with it, and he spends it in some places where he ought
not. Soon there come up new companions and acquaintances from the bar-rooms and the saloons
of the city. Soon that young man begins to waver in the battle of temptation, and soon his
soul goes down. In a few months, or few years, he has fallen. He is morally dead. He is a mere
corpse of what he once was. The harpies of sin snuff up the taint and come on the field. His
garments gradually give out. He has pawned his watch. His health is failing him. His credit
perishes. He is too poor to stay in the city, and he is too poor to pay his way home to the
country. Down! down! Why do the low fellows of the city now stick to him so closely? Is it
to help him back to a moral and spiritual life? Oh, no! I will tell you why they stay; they
are the Philistines stripping the slain.

Do not look where I point, but yonder stands a man who once had a beautiful home in this city.
His house had elegant furniture, his children were beautifully clad, his name was synonymous
with honor and usefulness; but evil habit knocked at his front door, knocked at his back door,
knocked at his parlor door, knocked at his bedroom door. Where is the piano? Sold to pay the
rent. Where is the hat-rack? Sold to meet the butcher's bill. Where are the carpets? Sold to
get bread. Where is the wardrobe? Sold to get rum. Where are the daughters? Working their fingers
off in trying to keep the family together. Worse and worse, until everything is gone. Who is
that going up the front steps of that house? That is a creditor, hoping to find some chair
or bed that has not been levied upon. Who are those two gentlemen now going up the front steps?
The one is a constable, the other is the sheriff. Why do they go there? The unfortunate is
morally dead, socially dead, financially dead. Why do they go there? I will tell you why the
creditors, and the constables, and the sheriffs go there. They are, some on their own account,
and some on account of the law, stripping the slain.

An ex-member of Congress, one of the most eloquent men that ever stood in the House of Representatives,
said in his last moments: "This is the end. I am dying--dying on a borrowed bed, covered by
a borrowed sheet, in a house built by public charity. Bury me under that tree in the middle
of the field, where I shall not be crowded, for I have been crowded all my life." Where were
the jolly politicians and the dissipating comrades who had been with him, laughing at his jokes,
applauding his eloquence, and plunging him into sin? They have left. Why? His money is gone,
his reputation is gone, his wit is gone, his clothes are gone, everything is gone. Why should
they stay any longer? They have completed their work. They have stripped the slain.

There is another way, however, of doing that same work. Here is a man who, through his sin,
is prostrate. He acknowledges that he has done wrong. Now is the time for you to go to that
man and say: "Thousands of people have been as far astray as you are, and got back." Now is
the time for you to go to that man and tell him of the omnipotent grace of God, that is sufficient
for any poor soul. Now is the time to go to tell him how swearing John Bunyan, through the
grace of God, afterward came to the celestial city. Now is the time to go to that man and tell
him how profligate Newton came, through conversion, to be a world-renowned preacher of righteousness.
Now is the time to tell that man that multitudes who have been pounded with all the flails
of sin and dragged through all the sewers of pollution at last have risen to positive dominion
of moral power.

You do not tell him that, do you? No. You say to him: "Loan you money? No. You are down. You
will have to go to the dogs. Lend you a shilling? I would not lend you five cents to keep you
from the gallows. You are debauched! Get out of my sight, now! Down; you will have to stay
down!" And thus those bruised and battered men are sometimes accosted by those who ought to
lift them up. Thus the last vestige of hope is taken from them. Thus those who ought to go
and lift and save them are guilty of stripping the slain.

The point I want to make is this: sin is hard, cruel, and merciless. Instead of helping a man
up it helps him down; and when, like Saul and his comrades, you lie on the field, it will come
and steal your sword and helmet and shield, leaving you to the jackal and the crow.

But the world and Satan do not do all their work with the outcast and abandoned. A respectable,
impenitent man comes to die. He is flat on his back. He could not get up if the house were
on fire. Adroitest medical skill and gentlest nursing have been a failure. He has come to his
last hour. What does Satan do for such a man? Why, he fetches up all the inapt, disagreeable,
and harrowing things in his life. He says: "Do you remember those chances you had for heaven,
and missed them? Do you remember all those lapses in conduct? Do you remember all those opprobrious
words and thoughts and actions? Don't remember them, eh? I'll make you remember them." And
then he takes all the past and empties it on that death-bed, as the mail-bags are emptied on
the post-office floor. The man is sick. He can not get away from them.

Then the man says to Satan: "You have deceived me. You told me that all would be well. You
said there would be no trouble at the last. You told me if I did so and so, you would do so
and so. Now you corner me, and hedge me up, and submerge me in everything evil." "Ha! ha!"
says Satan, "I was only fooling you. It is mirth for me to see you suffer. I have been for
thirty years plotting to get you just where you are. It is hard for you now--it will be worse
for you after awhile. It pleases me. Lie still, sir. Don't flinch or shudder. Come now, I will
tear off from you the last rag of expectation. I will rend away from your soul the last hope.
I will leave you bare for the beating of the storm. It is my business to strip the slain."

While men are in robust health, and their digestion is good, and their nerves are strong, they
think their physical strength will get them safely through the last exigency. They say it is
only cowardly women who are afraid at the last, and cry out for God. "Wait till I come to die.
I will show you. You won't hear me pray, nor call for a minister, nor want a chapter read me
from the Bible." But after the man has been three weeks in a sick-room his nerves are not so
steady, and his worldly companions are not anywhere near to cheer him up, and he is persuaded
that he must quit life: his physical courage is all gone.

He jumps at the fall of a teaspoon in a saucer. He shivers at the idea of going away. He says:
"Wife, I don't think my infidelity is going to take me through. For God's sake don't bring
up the children to do as I have done. If you feel like it, I wish you would read a verse or
two out of Fannie's Sabbath-school hymn-book or New Testament." But Satan breaks in, and says:
"You have always thought religion trash and a lie; don't give up at the last. Besides that,
you can not, in the hour you have to live, get off on that track. Die as you lived. With my
great black wings I shut out that light. Die in darkness. I rend away from you that last vestige
of hope. It is my business to strip the slain."

A man who had rejected Christianity and thought it all trash, came to die. He was in the sweat
of a great agony, and his wife said: "We had better have some prayer." "Mary, not a breath
of that," he said. "The lightest word of prayer would roll back on me like rocks on a drowning
man. I have come to the hour of test. I had a chance, and I forfeited it. I believed in a liar,
and he has left me in the lurch. Mary, bring me Tom Paine, that book that I swore by and lived
by, and pitch it in the fire, and let it burn and burn as I myself shall soon burn." And then,
with the foam on his lip and his hands tossing wildly in the air, he cried out: "Blackness
of darkness! Oh, my God, too late!" And the spirits of darkness whistled up from the depth,
and wheeled around and around him, stripping the slain.

Sin is a luxury now; it is exhilaration now; it is victory now. But after awhile it is collision;
it is defeat; it is extermination; it is jackalism; it is robbing the dead; it is stripping
the slain. Give it up to-day--give it up! Oh, how you have been cheated on, my brother, from
one thing to another! All these years you have been under an evil mastery that you understood
not. What have your companions done for you? What have they done for your health? Nearly ruined
it by carousal. What have they done for your fortune? Almost scattered it by spendthrift behavior.
What have they done for your reputation? Almost ruined it with good men. What have they done
for your immortal soul? Almost insured its overthrow.

You are hastening on toward the consummation of all that is sad. To-day you stop and think,
but it is only for a moment, and then you will tramp on, and at the close of this service you
will go out, and the question will be: "How did you like the sermon?" And one man will say:
"I liked it very well," and another man will say: "I didn't like it at all;" but neither of
the answers will touch the tremendous fact that, if impenitent, you are going at eighteen knots
an hour toward shipwreck! Yea, you are in a battle where you will fall; and while your surviving
relatives will take your remaining estate, and the cemetery will take your body, the messengers
of darkness will take your soul, and come and go about you for the next ten million years,
stripping the slain.

Many are crying out: "I admit I am slain, I admit it!" On what battle-field, my brothers? By
what weapon? "Polluted imagination," says one man; "Intoxicating liquor," says another man;
"My own hard heart," says another man. Do you realize this? Then I come to tell you that the
omnipotent Christ is ready to walk across this battle-field, and revive, and resuscitate, and
resurrect your dead soul. Let Him take your hand and rub away the numbness; your head, and
bathe off the aching; your heart, and stop its wild throb. He brought Lazarus to life; He brought
Jairus' daughter to life; He brought the young man of Nain to life, and these are three proofs
anyhow that he can bring you to life.

When the Philistines came down on the field, they stepped between the corpses, and they rolled
over the dead, and they took away everything that was valuable; and so it was with the people
that followed after our army at Chancellorsville, and at Pittsburg Landing, and at Stone River,
and at Atlanta, stripping the slain; but the Northern and Southern women--God bless them!--came
on the field with basins, and pads, and towels, and lint, and cordials, and Christian encouragement;
and the poor fellows that lay there lifted up their arms and said: "Oh, how good that does
feel since you dressed it!" and others looked up and said: "Oh, how you make me think of my
mother!" and others said: "Tell the folks at home I died thinking about them;" and another
looked up and said: "Miss, won't you sing me a verse of 'Home, Sweet Home,' before I die?"
And then the tattoo was sounded, and the hats were off, and the service was read: "I am the
resurrection and the life;" and in honor of the departed the muskets were loaded, and the command
given: "Take aim--fire!" And there was a shingle set up at the head of the grave, with the
epitaph of "Lieutenant ---- in the Fourteenth Massachusetts Regulars," or "Captain ---- in
the Fifteenth Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers." And so to-night, across this great field
of moral and spiritual battle, the angels of God come walking among the slain, and there are
voices of comfort, and voices of hope, and voices of resurrection, and voices of heaven.

Christ is ready to give life to the dead. He will make the deaf ear to hear, the blind eye
to see, the pulseless heart to beat, and the damp walls of your spiritual charnel-house will
crash into ruin at His cry: "Come forth!" I verily believe there are souls in this house who
are now dead in sin, who in half an hour will be alive forever. There was a thrilling dream,
a glorious dream--you may have heard of it. Ezekiel closed his eyes, and he saw two mountains,
and a valley between the mountains. That valley looked as though there had been a great battle
there, and a whole army had been slain, and they had been unburied; and the heat of the land,
and the vultures coming there, soon the bones were exposed to the sun, and they looked like
thousands of snow-drifts all through the valley. Frightful spectacle! The bleaching skeletons
of a host!

But Ezekiel still kept his eyes shut; and lo! there were four currents of wind that struck
the battle-field, and when those four currents of wind met, the bones began to rattle; and
the foot came to the ankle, and the hand came to the wrist, and the jaws clashed together,
and the spinal column gathered up the ganglions and the nervous fiber, and all the valley wriggled
and writhed, and throbbed, and rocked, and rose up. There, a man coming to life. There, a hundred
men. There, a thousand; and all falling into line, waiting for the shout of their commander.
Ten thousand bleached skeletons springing up into ten thousand warriors, panting for the fray.
I hope that instead of being a dream it may be a prophecy of what we shall see here to-day.
Let this north wall be one of the mountains, and the south wall be taken for another of the
mountains, and let all the aisles and the pews be the valley between, for there are thousands
here to-day without one pulsation of spiritual life.

I look off in one direction, and they are dead. I look off in another direction, and they are
dead. Who will bring them to life? Who shall rouse them up? If I should halloo at the top of
my voice I could not wake them. Wait a moment! Listen! There is a rustling. There is a gale
from heaven. It comes from the north, and from the south, and from the east, and from the west.
It shuts us in. It blows upon the slain. There a soul begins to move in spiritual life; there,
ten souls; there, a score of souls; there, a hundred souls. The nostrils throbbing in divine
respiration, the hands lifted as though to take hold of heaven, the tongue moving as in prayer
and adoration. Life! immortal life coming into the slain. Ten men for God--fifty--a hundred--a
regiment--an army for God! Oh, that we might have such a scene here to-day! In Ezekiel's words,
and in almost a frenzy of prayer, I cry: "Come from the four winds, O Breath! and breathe upon
the slain."

You will have to surrender your heart to-day to God. You can not take the responsibility of
fighting against the Spirit in this crisis which will decide whether you are to go to heaven
or to hell--to join the hallelujahs of the saved, or the lamentations of the lost. You must
pray. You must repent. You must this day fling your sinful soul on the pardoning mercy of God.
You must! I see your resolution against God giving way, your determination wavering. I break
through the breach in the wall and follow up the advantage gained, hoping to rout your last
opposition to Christ, and to make you "ground arms" at the feet of the Divine Conqueror. Oh,
you must! You must!

The moon does not ask the tides of the Atlantic Ocean to rise. It only stoops down with two
great hands of light, the one at the European beach, and the other at the American beach, and
then lifts the great layer of molten silver. And God, it seems to me, is now going to lift
this audience to newness of life. Do you not feel the swellings of the great oceanic tides
of Divine mercy? My heart is in anguish to have you saved. For this I pray, and preach, and
long, glad to be called a fool for Christ's sake, and your salvation.

Some one replies: "Dear me, I do wish I could have these matters arranged with my God. I want
to be saved. God knows I want to be saved; but you stand there talking about this matter, and
you don't show me how." My dear brother, the work has all been done. Christ did it with His
own torn hand, and lacerated foot, and bleeding side. He took your place, and died your death,
if you will only believe it--only accept Him as your substitute.

What an amazing pity that any man should go from this house unblessed, when such a large blessing
is offered him at less cost than you would pay for a pin--"without money and without price."
I have driven down to-day with the Lord's ambulance to the battle-field where your soul lies
exposed to the darkness and the storm, and I want to lift you in, and drive off with you toward
heaven. Oh, Christians, by your prayers help to lift these wounded souls into the ambulance!
God forbid that any should be left on the field, and that at last eternal sorrow, and remorse,
and despair should come up around their soul like the bandit Philistines to the field of Gilboa,
stripping the slain.

SOLD OUT.

    "Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed
    without money."--ISA. lii: 3.

The Jews had gone headlong into sin, and as a punishment they had been carried captive to Babylon.
They found that iniquity did not pay. Cyrus seized Babylon, and felt so sorry for these poor
captive Jews that, without a dollar of compensation, he let them go home. So that, literally,
my text was fulfilled: "Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without
money."

There is enough Gospel in this text for fifty sermons; though I never heard of its being preached
on. There are persons in this house who have, like the Jews of the text, sold out. You do not
seem to belong either to yourselves or to God. The title-deeds have been passed over to "the
world, the flesh, and the devil," but the purchaser has never paid up. "Ye have sold yourselves
for nought."

When a man passes himself over to the world he expects to get some adequate compensation. He
has heard the great things that the world does for a man, and he believes it. He wants two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars. That will be horses, and houses, and a summer-resort, and
jolly companionship. To get it he parts with his physical health by overwork. He parts with
his conscience. He parts with much domestic enjoyment. He parts with opportunities for literary
culture. He parts with his soul. And so he makes over his entire nature to the world. He does
it in four installments. He pays down the first installment, and one fourth of his nature is
gone. He pays down the second installment, and one half of his nature is gone. He pays down
the third installment, and three quarters of his nature are gone; and after many years have
gone by he pays down the fourth installment, and, lo! his entire nature is gone. Then he comes
up to the world and says: "Good-morning. I have delivered to you the goods. I have passed over
to you my body, my mind, and my soul, and I have come now to collect the two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars." "Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars?" says the world. "What do you mean?"
"Well," you say, "I come to collect the money you owe me, and I expect you now to fulfill your
part of the contract." "But," says the world, "I have failed. I am bankrupt. I can not possibly
pay that debt. I have not for a long while expected to pay it." "Well," you then say, "give
me back the goods." "Oh, no," says the world, "they are all gone. I can not give them back
to you." And there you stand on the confines of eternity, your spiritual character gone, staggering
under the consideration that "you have sold yourself for nought."

I tell you the world is a liar; it does not keep its promises. It is a cheat, and it fleeces
everything it can put its hands on. It is a bogus world. It is a six-thousand-year-old swindle.
Even if it pays the two hundred and fifty thousand dollars for which you contracted, it pays
them in bonds that will not be worth anything in a little while. Just as a man may pay down
ten thousand dollars in hard cash and get for it worthless scrip--so the world passes over
to you the two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in that shape which will not be worth a farthing
to you a thousandth part of a second after you are dead. "Oh," you say, "it will help to bury
me, anyhow." Oh, my brother! you need not worry about that. The world will bury you soon enough,
from sanitary considerations. After you have been deceased for three or four days you will
compel the world to bury you.

Post-mortem emoluments are of no use to you. The treasures of this world will not pass current
in the future world; and if all the wealth of the Bank of England were put in the pocket of
your shroud, and you in the midst of the Jordan of death were asked to pay three cents for
your ferriage, you could not do it. There comes a moment in your existence beyond which all
earthly values fail; and many a man has wakened up in such a time to find that he has sold
out for eternity, and has nothing to show for it. I should as soon think of going to Chatham
Street to buy silk pocket-handkerchiefs with no cotton in them, as to go to this world expecting
to find any permanent happiness. It has deceived and deluded every man that has ever put his
trust in it.

History tells us of one who resolved that he would have all his senses gratified at one and
the same time, and he expended thousands of dollars on each sense. He entered a room, and there
were the first musicians of the land pleasing his ear, and there were fine pictures fascinating
his eye, and there were costly aromatics regaling his nostril, and there were the richest meats,
and wines, and fruits, and confections pleasing the appetite, and there was a soft couch of
sinful indulgence on which he reclined; and the man declared afterward that he would give ten
times what he had given if he could have one week of such enjoyment, even though he lost his
soul by it. Ah! that was the rub. He did lose his soul by it! Cyrus the Conqueror thought for
a little while that he was making a fine thing out of this world, and yet before he came to
his grave he wrote out this pitiful epitaph for his monument: "I am Cyrus. I occupied the Persian
Empire. I was king over Asia. Begrudge me not this monument." But the world in after years
plowed up his sepulcher.

The world clapped its hands and stamped its feet in honor of Charles Lamb; but what does he
say? "I walk up and down, thinking I am happy, but feeling I am not." Call the roll, and be
quick about it. Samuel Johnson, the learned! Happy? "No. I am afraid I shall some day get crazy."
William Hazlitt, the great essayist! Happy? "No. I have been for two hours and a half going
up and down Paternoster Row with a volcano in my breast." Smollett, the witty author! Happy?
"No. I am sick of praise and blame, and I wish to God that I had such circumstances around
me that I could throw my pen into oblivion." Buchanan, the world-renowned writer, exiled from
his own country, appealing to Henry VIII. for protection! Happy? "No. Over mountains covered
with snow, and through valleys flooded with rain, I come a fugitive." Molière, the popular
dramatic author! Happy? "No. That wretch of an actor just now recited four of my lines without
the proper accent and gesture. To have the children of my brain so hung, drawn, and quartered,
tortures me like a condemned spirit."

I went to see a worldling die. As I went into the hall I saw its floor was tessellated, and
its wall was a picture-gallery. I found his death-chamber adorned with tapestry until it seemed
as if the clouds of the setting sun had settled in the room. The man had given forty years
to the world--his wit, his time, his genius, his talent, his soul. Did the world come in to
stand by his death-bed, and clearing off the vials of bitter medicine, put down any compensation?
Oh, no! The world does not like sick and dying people, and leaves them in the lurch. It ruined
this man, and then left him. He had a magnificent funeral. All the ministers wore scarfs, and
there were forty-three carriages in a row; but the departed man appreciated not the obsequies.

I want to persuade my audience that this world is a poor investment; that it does not pay ninety
per cent. of satisfaction, nor eighty per cent., nor twenty per cent., nor two per cent., nor
one; that it gives no solace when a dead babe lies on your lap; that it gives no peace when
conscience rings its alarm; that it gives no explanation in the day of dire trouble; and at
the time of your decease it takes hold of the pillow-case, and shakes out the feathers, and
then jolts down in the place thereof sighs, and groans, and execrations, and then makes you
put your head on it. Oh, ye who have tried this world, is it a satisfactory portion? Would
you advise your friends to make the investment? No. "Ye have sold yourselves for nought." Your
conscience went. Your hope went. Your Bible went. Your heaven went. Your God went. When a sheriff
under a writ from the courts sells a man out, the officer generally leaves a few chairs and
a bed, and a few cups and knives; but in this awful vendue in which you have been engaged the
auctioneer's mallet has come down upon body, mind, and soul: Going! Gone! "Ye have sold yourselves
for nought."

How could you do so? Did you think that your soul was a mere trinket which for a few pennies
you could buy in a toy shop? Did you think that your soul, if once lost, might be found again
if you went out with torches and lanterns? Did you think that your soul was short-lived, and
that, panting, it would soon lie down for extinction? Or had you no idea what your soul was
worth? Did you ever put your forefingers on its eternal pulses? Have you never felt the quiver
of its peerless wing? Have you not known that, after leaving the body, the first step of your
soul reaches to the stars, and the next step to the furthest outposts of God's universe, and
that it will not die until the day when the everlasting Jehovah expires? Oh, my brother, what
possessed you that you should part with your soul so cheap? "Ye have sold yourselves for nought."

But I have some good news to tell you. I want to engage in a litigation for the recovery of
that soul of yours. I want to show that you have been cheated out of it. I want to prove, as
I will, that you were crazy on that subject, and that the world, under such circumstances,
has no right to take the title-deed from you; and if you will join me I shall get a decree
from the High Chancery Court of Heaven reinstating you into the possession of your soul. "Oh,"
you say, "I am afraid of lawsuits; they are so expensive, and I can not pay the cost." Then
have you forgotten the last half of my text? "Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall
be redeemed without money."

Money is good for a great many things, but it can not do anything in this matter of the soul.
You can not buy your way through. Dollars and pounds sterling mean nothing at the gate of mercy.
If you could buy your salvation, heaven would be a great speculation, an extension of Wall
Street. Bad men would go up and buy out the place, and leave us to shift for ourselves. But
as money is not a lawful tender, what is? I will answer: Blood! Whose? Are we to go through
the slaughter? Oh, no; it wants richer blood than ours. It wants a king's blood. It must be
poured from royal arteries. It must be a sinless torrent. But where is the king? I see a great
many thrones and a great many occupants, yet none seem to be coming down to the rescue. But
after awhile the clock of night in Bethlehem strikes twelve, and the silver pendulum of a star
swings across the sky, and I see the King of Heaven rising up, and He descends, and steps down
from star to star, and from cloud to cloud, lower and lower, until He touches the sheep-covered
hills, and then on to another hill, this last skull-covered, and there, at the sharp stroke
of persecution, a rill incarnadine trickles down, and we who could not be redeemed by money
are redeemed by precious and imperial blood.

We have in this day professed Christians who are so rarefied and etherealized that they do
not want a religion of blood. What do you want? You seem to want a religion of brains. The
Bible says: "In the blood is the life." No atonement without blood. Ought not the apostle to
know? What did he say? "Ye are redeemed not with corruptible things, such as silver and gold,
but by the precious blood of Christ." You put your lancet into the arm of our holy religion
and withdraw the blood, and you leave it a mere corpse, fit only for the grave. Why did God
command the priests of old to strike the knife into the kid, and the goat, and the pigeon,
and the bullock, and the lamb? It was so that when the blood rushed out from these animals
on the floor of the ancient tabernacle the people should be compelled to think of the coming
carnage of the Son of God. No blood, no atonement.

I think that God intended to impress us with the vividness of that color. The green of the
grass, the blue of the sky, would not have startled and aroused us like this deep crimson.
It is as if God had said: "Now, sinner, wake up and see what the Saviour endured for you. This
is not water. This is not wine. It is blood. It is the blood of my own Son. It is the blood
of the Immaculate. It is the blood of God." Without the shedding of blood is no remission.
There has been many a man who in courts of law has pleaded "not guilty," who nevertheless has
been condemned because there was blood found on his hands, or blood found in his room; and
what shall we do in the last day if it be found that we have recrucified the Lord of Glory
and have never repented of it? You must believe in the blood or die. No escape. Unless you
let the sacrifice of Jesus go in your stead you yourself must suffer. It is either Christ's
blood or your blood.

"Oh," says some one, "the thought of blood sickens me." Good. God intended it to sicken you
with your sin. Do not act as though you had nothing to do with that Calvarian massacre. You
had. Your sins were the implements of torture. Those implements were not made of steel, and
iron, and wood, so much as out of your sins. Guilty of this homicide, and this regicide, and
this deicide, confess your guilt to-day. Ten thousand voices of heaven bring in the verdict
against you of guilty, guilty. Prepare to die, or believe in that blood. Stretch yourself out
for the sacrifice, or accept the Saviour's sacrifice. Do not fling away your one chance.

It seems to me as if all heaven were trying to bid in your soul. The first bid it makes is
the tears of Christ at the tomb of Lazarus; but that is not a high enough price. The next bid
heaven makes is the sweat of Gethsemane; but it is too cheap a price. The next bid heaven makes
seems to be the whipped back of Pilate's hall; but it is not a high enough price. Can it be
possible that heaven can not buy you in? Heaven tries once more. It says: "I bid this time
for that man's soul the tortures of Christ's martyrdom, the blood on His temple, the blood
on His cheek, the blood on His chin, the blood on His hand, the blood on His side, the blood
on His knee, the blood on His foot--the blood in drops, the blood in rills, the blood in pools
coagulated beneath the cross; the blood that wet the tips of the soldiers' spears, the blood
that plashed warm in the faces of His enemies." Glory to God, that bid wins it! The highest
price that was ever paid for anything was paid for your soul. Nothing could buy it but blood!
The estranged property is bought back. Take it. "You have sold yourselves for nought; and ye
shall be redeemed without money." O atoning blood, cleansing blood, life-giving blood, sanctifying
blood, glorifying blood of Jesus! Why not burst into tears at the thought that for thee He
shed it--for thee the hard-hearted, for thee the lost?

"No," says some one; "I will have nothing to do with it except that, like the Jews, I put both
my hands into that carnage and scoop up both palms full, and throw it on my head and cry: 'His
blood be on us and on our children!'" Can you do such a shocking thing as that? Just rub your
handkerchief across your brow and look at it. It is the blood of the Son of God whom you have
despised and driven back all these years. Oh, do not do that any longer! Come out frankly and
boldly and honestly, and tell Christ you are sorry. You can not afford to so roughly treat
Him upon whom everything depends.

I do not know how you will get away from this subject. You see that you are sold out, and that
Christ wants to buy you back. There are three persons who come after you to-night: God the
Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. They unite their three omnipotences in one movement
for your salvation. You will not take up arms against the Triune God, will you? Is there enough
muscle in your arm for such a combat? By the highest throne in heaven, and by the deepest chasm
in hell, I beg you look out. Unless you allow Christ to carry away your sins, they will carry
you away. Unless you allow Christ to lift you up, they will drag you down. There is only one
hope for you, and that is the blood. Christ, the sin-offering, bearing your transgressions.
Christ, the surety, paying your debts. Christ, the divine Cyrus, loosening your Babylonish
captivity.

Would you not like to be free? Here is the price of your liberation--not money, but blood.
I tremble from head to foot, not because I fear your presence, for I am used to that, but because
I fear that you will miss your chance for immortal rescue, and die. In the last day, if you
now reject Christ, every drop of that sacrificial blood, instead of pleading for your release
as it would have pleaded if you had repented, will plead against you. It will seem to say:
"They refused the ransom; they chose to die; let them die; they must die. Down with them to
the weeping and the wailing. Depart! go away from me. You would not have me, now I will not
have you. Sold out for eternity."

O Lord God of the judgment day! avert that calamity! Let us see the quick flash of the cimeter
that slays the sin but saves the sinner. Strike, omnipotent God, for the soul's deliverance!
Beat, O eternal sea! with all thy waves against the barren beach of that rocky soul, and make
it tremble. Oh! the oppressiveness of the hour, the minute, the second, on which the soul's
destiny quivers, and this is that hour, that minute, that second!

I wonder what proportion of this audience will be saved? What proportion will be lost? When
the "Schiller" went down, out of three hundred and eighty people only forty were saved. When
the "Ville du Havre" went down, out of three hundred and forty about fifty were saved. Out
of this audience to-day, how many will get to the shore of heaven? It is no idle question for
me to ask, for many of you I shall never see again until the day when the books are open.

Some years ago there came down a fierce storm on the sea-coast, and a vessel got in the breakers
and was going to pieces. They threw up some signal of distress, and the people on the shore
saw them. They put out in a life-boat. They came on, and they saw the poor sailors, almost
exhausted, clinging to a raft; and so afraid were the boatmen that the men would give up before
they got to them, they gave them three rounds of cheers, and cried: "Hold on, there! Hold on!
We'll save you!" After awhile the boat came up. One man was saved by having the boat-hook put
in the collar of his coat; and some in one way, and some in another; but they all got into
the boat. "Now," says the captain, "for the shore. Pull away now, pull!" The people on the
land were afraid the life-boat had gone down. They said: "How long the boat stays. Why, it
must have been swamped, and they have all perished together."

And there were men and women on the pier-heads and on the beach wringing their hands; and while
they waited and watched, they saw something looming up through the mist, and it turned out
to be the life-boat. As soon as it came within speaking distance the people on the shore cried
out: "Did you save any of them? Did you save any of them?" And as the boat swept through the
boiling surf and came to the pier-head, the captain waved his hand over the exhausted sailors
that lay flat on the bottom of the boat, and cried: "All saved! Thank God! All saved!" So may
it be to-day. The waves of your sin run high, the storm is on you, the danger is appalling.
Oh! shipwrecked soul, I have come for you. I cheer you with this Gospel hope. God grant that
within the next ten minutes we may row with you into the harbor of God's mercy. And when these
Christian men gather around to see the result of this service, and the glorified gathering
on the pier-heads of heaven to watch and to listen, may we be able to report all saved! Young
and old, good and bad! All saved! Saved from sin, and death, and hell. Saved for time. Saved
for eternity. "And so it came to pass that they all escaped safe to land."

SUMMER TEMPTATIONS.

    "Come ye yourselves apart unto a desert place and rest
    awhile."--MARK vi: 31.

Here Christ advises His apostles to take a vacation. They have been living an excited as well
as a useful life, and He advises that they get out into the country. When, six weeks ago, standing
in this place, I advocated, with all the energy I could command, the Saturday afternoon holiday,
I did not think the people would so soon get that release. By divine fiat it has come, and
I rejoice that more people will have opportunity of recreation this summer than in any previous
summer. Others will have whole weeks and months of rest. The railway trains are being laden
with passengers and baggage on their way to the mountains and the lakes and the sea-shore.
Multitudes of our citizens are packing their trunks for a restorative absence.

The city heats are pursuing the people with torch and fear of sunstroke. The long silent halls
of sumptuous hotels are all abuzz with excited arrivals. The crystalline surface of Winnipiseogee
is shattered with the stroke of steamer, laden with excursionists. The antlers of Adirondack
deer rattle under the shot of city sportsmen. The trout make fatal snaps at the hook of adroit
sportsmen and toss their spotted brilliance into the game-basket. Already the baton of the
orchestral leader taps the music-stand on the hotel green, and American life puts on festal
array, and the rumbling of the tenpin alley, and the crack of the ivory balls on the green-baized
billiard tables, and the jolting of the bar-room goblets, and the explosive uncorking of champagne
bottles, and the whirl and the rustle of the ball-room dance, and the clattering hoofs of the
race-courses, attest that the season for the great American watering-places is fairly inaugurated.
Music--flute and drum and cornet-à-piston and clapping cymbals--will wake the echoes of the
mountains.

Glad I am that fagged-out American life for the most part will have an opportunity to rest,
and that nerves racked and destroyed will find a Bethesda. I believe in watering-places. Let
not the commercial firm begrudge the clerk, or the employer the journeyman, or the patient
the physician, or the church its pastor, a season of inoccupation. Luther used to sport with
his children; Edmund Burke used to caress his favorite horse; Thomas Chalmers, in the dark
hours of the church's disruption, played kite for recreation--as I was told by his own daughter--and
the busy Christ said to the busy apostles: "Come ye apart awhile into the desert and rest yourselves."
And I have observed that they who do not know how to rest do not know how to work.

But I have to declare this truth to-day, that some of our fashionable watering-places are the
temporal and eternal destruction of "a multitude that no man can number," and amid the congratulations
of this season and the prospect of the departure of many of you for the country I must utter
a note of warning--plain, earnest, and unmistakable.

I. The first temptation that is apt to hover in this direction is to leave your piety all at
home. You will send the dog and cat and canary bird to be well cared for somewhere else; but
the temptation will be to leave your religion in the room with the blinds down and the door
bolted, and then you will come back in the autumn to find that it is starved and suffocated,
lying stretched on the rug stark dead. There is no surplus of piety at the watering-places.
I never knew any one to grow very rapidly in grace at the Catskill Mountain House, or Sharon
Springs, or the Falls of Montmorency. It is generally the case that the Sabbath is more of
a carousal than any other day, and there are Sunday walks and Sunday rides and Sunday excursions.

Elders and deacons and ministers of religion who are entirely consistent at home, sometimes
when the Sabbath dawns on them at Niagara Falls or the White Mountains take the day to themselves.
If they go to the church, it is apt to be a sacred parade, and the discourse, instead of being
a plain talk about the soul, is apt to be what is called a crack sermon--that is, some discourse
picked out of the effusions of the year as the one most adapted to excite admiration; and in
those churches, from the way the ladies hold their fans, you know that they are not so much
impressed with the heat as with the picturesqueness of half-disclosed features. Four puny souls
stand in the organ-loft and squall a tune that nobody knows, and worshipers, with two thousand
dollars' worth of diamonds on the right hand, drop a cent into the poor-box, and then the benediction
is pronounced and the farce is ended.

The toughest thing I ever tried to do was to be good at a watering-place. The air is bewitched
with "the world, the flesh, and the devil." There are Christians who in three or four weeks
in such a place have had such terrible rents made in their Christian robe that they had to
keep darning it until Christmas to get it mended! The health of a great many people makes an
annual visit to some mineral spring an absolute necessity; but, my dear people, take your Bible
along with you, and take an hour for secret prayer every day, though you be surrounded by guffaw
and saturnalia. Keep holy the Sabbath, though they denounce you as a bigoted Puritan. Stand
off from those institutions which propose to imitate on this side the water the iniquities
of Baden-Baden. Let your moral and your immortal health keep pace with your physical recuperation,
and remember that all the waters of Hathorne and sulphur and chalybeate springs can not do
you so much good as the mineral, healing, perennial flood that breaks forth from the "Rock
of Ages." This may be your last summer. If so, make it a fit vestibule of heaven.

II. Another temptation around nearly all our watering-places is the horse-racing business.
We all admire the horse. There needs to be a redistribution of coronets among the brute creation.
For ages the lion has been called the king of beasts. I knock off its coronet and put the crown
upon the horse, in every way nobler, whether in shape or spirit or sagacity or intelligence
or affection or usefulness. He is semi-human, and knows how to reason on a small scale. The
centaur of olden times, part horse and part man, seems to be a suggestion of the fact that
the horse is something more than a beast.

Job sets forth his strength, his beauty, his majesty, the panting of his nostril, the pawing
of his hoof, and his enthusiasm for the battle. What Rosa Bonheur did for the cattle, and what
Landseer did for the dog, Job, with mightier pencil, does for the horse. Eighty-eight times
does the Bible speak of him. He comes into every kingly procession and into every great occasion
and into every triumph. It is very evident that Job and David and Isaiah and Ezekiel and Jeremiah
and John were fond of the horse. He came into much of their imagery. A red horse--that meant
war; a black horse--that meant famine; a pale horse--that meant death; a white horse--that
meant victory.

As the Bible makes a favorite of the horse, the patriarch and the prophet and the evangelist
and the apostle, stroking his sleek hide, and patting his rounded neck, and tenderly lifting
his exquisitely formed hoof, and listening with a thrill to the champ of his bit, so all great
natures in all ages have spoken of him in encomiastic terms. Virgil in his Georgics almost
seems to plagiarize from the description of Job. The Duke of Wellington would not allow any
one irreverently to touch his old war-horse, Copenhagen, on whom he had ridden fifteen hours
without dismounting at Waterloo; and when old Copenhagen died, his master ordered a military
salute fired over his grave. John Howard showed that he did not exhaust all his sympathies
in pitying the human race, for when sick he writes home: "Has my old chaise-horse become sick
or spoiled?"

But we do not think that the speed of the horse should be cultured at the expense of human
degradation. Horse-races, in olden times, were under the ban of Christian people, and in our
day the same institution has come up under fictitious names, and it is called a "Summer Meeting,"
almost suggestive of positive religious exercises. And it is called an "Agricultural Fair,"
suggestive of everything that is improving in the art of farming. But under these deceptive
titles are the same cheating and the same betting, the same drunkenness and the same vagabondage
and the same abominations that were to be found under the old horse-racing system.

I never knew a man yet who could give himself to the pleasures of the turf for a long reach
of time, and not be battered in morals. They hook up their spanking team, and put on their
sporting-cap, and light their cigar, and take the reins, and dash down the road to perdition.
The great day at Saratoga, and Long Branch, and Cape May, and nearly all the other watering-places,
is the day of the races. The hotels are thronged, nearly every kind of equipage is taken up
at an almost fabulous price, and there are many respectable people mingling with jockeys, and
gamblers, and libertines, and foul-mouthed men and flashy women. The bar-tender stirs up the
brandy-smash. The bets run high. The greenhorns, supposing all is fair, put in their money
soon enough to lose it. Three weeks before the race takes place the struggle is decided, and
the men in the secret know on which steed to bet their money. The two men on the horses riding
around long before arranged who shall beat.

Leaning from the stand or from the carriage are men and women so absorbed in the struggle of
bone and muscle and mettle that they make a grand harvest for the pickpockets, who carry off
the pocket-books and portemonnaies. Men looking on see only two horses with two riders flying
around the ring; but there is many a man on that stand whose honor and domestic happiness and
fortune--white mane, white foot, white flank--are in the ring, racing with inebriety, and with
fraud, and with profanity, and with ruin--black neck, black foot, black flank. Neck and neck
they go in that moral Epsom.

Ah, my friends, have nothing to do with horse-racing dissipations this summer. Long ago the
English government got through looking to the turf for the dragoon and light-cavalry horse.
They found the turf depreciates the stock, and it is yet worse for men. Thomas Hughes, the
member of parliament and the author, known all the world over, hearing that a new turf enterprise
was being started in this country, wrote a letter, in which he said: "Heaven help you, then;
for of all the cankers of our old civilization there is nothing in this country approaching
in unblushing meanness, in rascality holding its head high, to this belauded institution of
the British turf." Another famous sportsman writes: "How many fine domains have been shared
among these hosts of rapacious sharks during the last two hundred years; and unless the system
be altered, how many more are doomed to fall into the same gulf!" The Duke of Hamilton, through
his horse-racing proclivities, in three years got through his entire fortune of £70,000, and
I will say that some of you are being undermined by it. With the bull-fights of Spain and the
bear-baitings of the pit may the Lord God annihilate the infamous and accursed horse-racing
of England and America.

III. I go further, and speak of another temptation that hovers over the watering-places; and
this is the temptation to sacrifice physical strength. The modern Bethesda was intended to
recuperate the physical health; and yet how many come from the watering-places, their health
absolutely destroyed! New York and Brooklyn idiots boasting of having imbibed twenty glasses
of Congress water before breakfast. Families accustomed to going to bed at ten o'clock at night
gossiping until one or two o'clock in the morning. Dyspeptics, usually very cautious about
their health, mingling ice-creams, and lemons, and lobster-salads, and cocoa-nuts, until the
gastric juices lift up all their voices of lamentation and protest. Delicate women and brainless
young men chassezing themselves into vertigo and catalepsy. Thousands of men and women coming
back from our watering-places in the autumn with the foundations laid for ailments that will
last them all their life long. You know as well as I do that this is the simple truth.

In the summer you say to your good health: "Good-bye, I am going to have a good time for a
little while. I will be very glad to see you again in the autumn." Then in the autumn, when
you are hard at work in your office, or store, or shop, or counting-room, Good Health will
come and say: "Good-bye, I am going." You say: "Where are you going?" "Oh," says Good Health,
"I am going to take a vacation!" It is a poor rule that will not work both ways, and your good
health will leave you choleric and splenetic and exhausted. You coquetted with your good health
in the summer-time, and your good health is coquetting with you in the winter-time. A fragment
of Paul's charge to the jailer would be an appropriate inscription for the hotel-register in
every watering-place: "Do thyself no harm."

IV. Another temptation hovering around the watering-place is to the formation of hasty and
life-long alliances. The watering-places are responsible for more of the domestic infelicities
of this country than all the other things combined. Society is so artificial there that no
sure judgment of character can be formed. Those who form companionships amid such circumstances
go into a lottery where there are twenty blanks to one prize. In the severe tug of life you
want more than glitter and splash. Life is not a ball-room where the music decides the step,
and bow and prance and graceful swing of long trail can make up for strong common sense. You
might as well go among the gayly painted yachts of a summer regatta to find war vessels as
to go among the light spray of the summer watering-place to find character that can stand the
test of the great struggle of human life. Ah, in the battle of life you want a stronger weapon
than a lace fan or a croquet mallet! The load of life is so heavy that in order to draw it,
you want a team stronger than one made up of a masculine grasshopper and a feminine butterfly.

If there is any man in the community that excites my contempt, and that ought to excite the
contempt of every man and woman, it is the soft-handed, soft-headed fop, who, perfumed until
the air is actually sick, spends his summer in taking killing attitudes, and waving sentimental
adieus, and talking infinitesimal nothings, and finding his heaven in the set of a lavender
kid-glove. Boots as tight as an Inquisition, two hours of consummate skill exhibited in the
tie of a flaming cravat, his conversation made up of "Ah's" and "Oh's" and "He-hee's." It would
take five hundred of them stewed down to make a teaspoonful of calves-foot jelly. There is
only one counterpart to such a man as that, and that is the frothy young woman at the watering-place,
her conversation made up of French moonshine; what she has on her head only equaled by what
she has on her back; useless ever since she was born, and to be useless until she is dead:
and what they will do with her in the next world I do not know, except to set her upon the
banks of the River Life for eternity to look sweet! God intends us to admire music and fair
faces and graceful step, but amid the heartlessness and the inflation and the fantastic influences
of our modern watering-places, beware how you make life-long covenants!

V. Another temptation that will hover over the watering-place is that of baneful literature.
Almost every one starting off for the summer takes some reading matter. It is a book out of
the library or off the bookstand, or bought of the boy hawking books through the cars. I really
believe there is more pestiferous trash read among the intelligent classes in July and August
than in all the other ten months of the year. Men and women who at home would not be satisfied
with a book that was not really sensible, I found sitting on hotel-piazzas or under the trees
reading books the index of which would make them blush if they knew that you knew what the
book was.

"Oh," they say, "you must have intellectual recreation!" Yes. There is no need that you take
along into a watering-place "Hamilton's Metaphysics" or some thunderous discourse on the eternal
decrees, or "Faraday's Philosophy." There are many easy books that are good. You might as well
say: "I propose now to give a little rest to my digestive organs; and, instead of eating heavy
meat and vegetables, I will for a little while take lighter food--a little strychnine and a
few grains of ratsbane." Literary poison in August is as bad as literary poison in December.
Mark that. Do not let the frogs and the lice of a corrupt printing-press jump and crawl into
your Saratoga trunk or White Mountain valise.

Would it not be an awful thing for you to be struck with lightning some day when you had in
your hand one of these paper-covered romances--the hero a Parisian roué, the heroine an unprincipled
flirt--chapters in the book that you would not read to your children at the rate of $100 a
line? Throw out all that stuff from your summer baggage. Are there not good books that are
easy to read--books of entertaining travel, books of congenial history, books of pure fun,
books of poetry ringing with merry canto, books of fine engravings, books that will rest the
mind as well as purify the heart and elevate the whole life? My hearers, there will not be
an hour between this and the day of your death when you can afford to read a book lacking in
moral principle.

VI. Another temptation hovering all around our watering-places is the intoxicating beverage.
I am told that it is becoming more and more fashionable for woman to drink. I care not how
well a woman may dress, if she has taken enough of wine to flush her cheek and put glassiness
on her eyes, she is intoxicated. She may be handed into a $2500 carriage, and have diamonds
enough to confound the Tiffanys--she is intoxicated. She may be a graduate of Packer Institute,
and the daughter of some man in danger of being nominated for the Presidency--she is drunk.
You may have a larger vocabulary than I have, and you may say in regard to her that she is
"convivial," or she is "merry," or she is "festive," or she is "exhilarated," but you can not
with all your garlands of verbiage cover up the plain fact that it is an old-fashioned case
of drunk.

Now, the watering-places are full of temptations to men and women to tipple. At the close of
the tenpin or billiard-game they tipple. At the close of the cotillon they tipple. Seated on
the piazza cooling themselves off they tipple. The tinged glasses come around with bright straws,
and they tipple. First they take "light wines," as they call them; but "light wines" are heavy
enough to debase the appetite. There is not a very long road between champagne at $5 a bottle
and whiskey at five cents a glass.

Satan has three or four grades down which he takes men to destruction. One man he takes up,
and through one spree pitches him into eternal darkness. That is a rare case. Very seldom,
indeed, can you find a man who will be such a fool as that.

When a man goes down to destruction Satan brings him to a plane. It is almost a level. The
depression is so slight that you can hardly see it. The man does not actually know that he
is on the down grade, and it tips only a little toward darkness--just a little. And the first
mile it is claret, and the second mile it is sherry, and the third mile it is punch, and the
fourth mile it is ale, and the fifth mile it is porter, and the sixth mile it is brandy, and
then it gets steeper and steeper and steeper, and the man gets frightened and says, "Oh, let
me get off!" "No," says the conductor, "this is an express train, and it does not stop until
it gets to the Grand Central Depot at Smashupton." At the last it biteth like a serpent and
stingeth like an adder." And if any young man in my congregation should get astray this summer
in this direction it will not be because I have not given him fair warning.

My friends, whether you tarry at home--which will be quite as safe and perhaps quite as comfortable--or
go into the country, arm yourself against temptation. The grace of God is the only safe shelter,
whether in town or country. There are watering-places accessible to all of us. You can not
open a book of the Bible without finding out some such watering-place. Fountains open for sin
and uncleanliness; wells of salvation; streams from Lebanon; a flood struck out of the rock
by Moses; fountains in the wilderness discovered by Hagar; water to drink and water to bathe
in; the river of God, which is full of water; water of which if a man drink he shall never
thirst; wells of water in the Valley of Baca; living fountains of water; a pure river of water
as clear as crystal from under the throne of God.

These are watering-places accessible to all of us. We do not have a laborious packing up before
we start--only the throwing away of our transgressions. No expensive hotel bills to pay; it
is "without money and without price." No long and dirty travel before we get there; it is only
one step away. California in five minutes. I walked around and saw ten fountains, all bubbling
up, and they were all different. And in five minutes I can get through this Bible parterre
and find you fifty bright, sparkling fountains bubbling up into eternal life.

A chemist will go to one of these summer watering-places and take the water and analyze it
and tell you that it contains so much of iron, and so much of soda, and so much of lime, and
so much of magnesia. I come to this Gospel well, this living fountain and analyze the water,
and I find that its ingredients are peace, pardon, forgiveness, hope, comfort, life, heaven.
"Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye" to this watering-place!

Crowd around this Bethesda this morning! Oh, you sick, you lame, you troubled, you dying--crowd
around this Bethesda! Step in it! Oh, step in it! The angel of the covenant this morning stirs
the water. Why do you not step in it? Some of you are too weak to take a step in that direction.
Then we take you up in the arms of our closing prayer and plunge you clean under the wave,
hoping that the cure may be as sudden and as radical as with Captain Naaman, who, blotched
and carbuncled, stepped into the Jordan, and after the seventh dive came up, his skin roseate-complexioned
as the flesh of a little child.

THE BANISHED QUEEN.

We stand amid the palaces of Shushan. The pinnacles are aflame with the morning light. The
columns rise festooned and wreathed, the wealth of empires flashing from the grooves; the ceilings
adorned with images of bird and beast, and scenes of prowess and conquest. The walls are hung
with shields, and emblazoned until it seems that the whole round of splendors is exhausted.
Each arch is a mighty leaf of architectural achievement. Golden stars shining down on glowing
arabesque. Hangings of embroidered work in which mingle the blueness of the sky, the greenness
of the grass, and the whiteness of the sea-foam. Tapestries hung on silver rings, wedding together
the pillars of marble. Pavilions reaching out in every direction. These for repose, filled
with luxuriant couches, in which weary limbs sink until all fatigue is submerged. Those for
carousal, where kings drink down a kingdom at one swallow.

Amazing spectacle!

Light of silver dripping down over stairs of ivory on shields of gold. Floors of stained marble,
sunset red and night black, and inlaid with gleaming pearl.

In connection with this palace there is a garden, where the mighty men of foreign lands are
seated at a banquet. Under the spread of oak and linden and acacia the tables are arranged.
The breath of honeysuckle and frankincense fills the air. Fountains leap up into the light,
the spray struck through with rainbows falling in crystalline baptism upon flowering shrubs--then
rolling down through channels of marble, and widening out here and there into pools swirling
with the finny tribes of foreign aquariums, bordered with scarlet anemones, hypericums, and
many-colored ranunculi.

Meats of rarest bird and beast smoking up amid wreaths of aromatics. The vases filled with
apricots and almonds. The baskets piled up with apricots and figs and oranges and pomegranates.
Melons tastefully twined with leaves of acacia. The bright waters of Eulæus filling the urns
and dropping outside the rim in flashing beads amid the traceries. Wine from the royal vats
of Ispahan and Shiraz, in bottles of tinged shell, and lily-shaped cups of silver, and flagons
and tankards of solid gold. The music rises higher, and the revelry breaks out into wilder
transport, and the wine has flushed the cheek and touched the brain, and louder than all other
voices are the hiccough of the inebriates, the gabble of fools, and the song of the drunkards.

In another part of the palace, Queen Vashti is entertaining the princesses of Persia at a banquet.
Drunken Ahasuerus says to his servants, "You go out and fetch Vashti from, that banquet with
the women, and bring her to this banquet with the men, and let me display her beauty." The
servants immediately start to obey the king's command; but there was a rule in Oriental society
that no woman might appear in public without having her face veiled. Yet here was a mandate
that no one dare dispute, demanding that Vashti come in unveiled before the multitude. However,
there was in Vashti's soul a principle more regal than Ahasuerus, more brilliant than the gold
of Shushan, of more wealth than the realm of Persia, which commanded her to disobey this order
of the king; and so all the righteousness and holiness and modesty of her nature rise up into
one sublime refusal. She says, "I will not go into the banquet unveiled." Ahasuerus was infuriate;
and Vashti, robbed of her position and her estate, is driven forth in poverty and ruin to suffer
the scorn of a nation, and yet to receive the applause of after generations, who shall rise
up to admire this martyr to kingly insolence. Well, the last vestige of that feast is gone;
the last garland has faded; the last arch has fallen; the last tankard has been destroyed;
and Shushan is a ruin; but as long as the world stands there will be multitudes of men and
women, familiar with the Bible, who will come into this picture-gallery of God and admire the
divine portrait of Vashti the queen, Vashti the veiled, Vashti the sacrifice, Vashti the silent.

I. In the first place, I want you to look upon Vashti the queen. A blue ribbon, rayed with
white, drawn around her forehead, indicated her queenly position. It was no small honor to
be queen in such a realm as that. Hark to the rustle of her robes! See the blaze of her jewels!
And yet, my friends, it is not necessary to have place and regal robe in order to be queenly.
When I see a woman with stout faith in God, putting her foot upon all meanness and selfishness
and godless display, going right forward to serve Christ and the race by a grand and a glorious
service, I say: "That woman is a queen," and the ranks of heaven look over the battlements
upon the coronation; and whether she comes up from the shanty on the commons or the mansion
of the fashionable square, I greet her with the shout, "All hail, Queen Vashti!"

What glory was there on the brow of Mary of Scotland, or Elizabeth of England, or Margaret
of France, or Catherine of Russia, compared with the worth of some of our Christian mothers,
many of them gone into glory?--or of that woman mentioned in the Scriptures, who put her all
into the Lord's treasury?--or of Jephtha's daughter, who made a demonstration of unselfish
patriotism?--or of Abigail, who rescued the herds and flocks of her husband?--or of Ruth, who
toiled under a tropical sun for poor, old, helpless Naomi?--or of Florence Nightingale, who
went at midnight to stanch the battle wounds of the Crimea?--or of Mrs. Adoniram Judson, who
kindled the lights of salvation amid the darkness of Burmah?--or of Mrs. Hemans, who poured
out her holy soul in words which will forever be associated with hunter's horn, and captive's
chain, and bridal hour, and lute's throb, and curfew's knell at the dying day?--and scores
and hundreds of women, unknown on earth, who have given water to the thirsty, and bread to
the hungry, and medicine to the sick, and smiles to the discouraged--their footsteps heard
along dark lane and in government hospital, and in almshouse corridor, and by prison gate?
There may be no royal robe--there may be no palatial surroundings. She does not need them;
for all charitable men will unite with the crackling lips of fever-struck hospital and plague-blotched
lazaretto in greeting her as she passes: "Hail! Hail! Queen Vashti!"

II. Again, I want you to consider Vashti the veiled. Had she appeared before Ahasuerus and
his court on that day with her face uncovered she would have shocked all the delicacies of
Oriental society, and the very men who in their intoxication demanded that she come, in their
sober moments would have despised her. As some flowers seem to thrive best in the dark lane
and in the shadow, and where the sun does not seem to reach them, so God appoints to most womanly
natures a retiring and unobtrusive spirit.

God once in awhile does call an Isabella to a throne, or a Miriam to strike the timbrel at
the front of a host, or a Marie Antoinette to quell a French mob, or a Deborah to stand at
the front of an armed battalion, crying out, "Up! Up! This is the day in which the Lord will
deliver Sisera into thy hands." And when the women are called to such out-door work and to
such heroic positions, God prepares them for it; and they have iron in their soul, and lightnings
in their eye, and whirlwinds in their breath, and the borrowed strength of the Lord Omnipotent
in their right arm. They walk through furnaces as though they were hedges of wild-flowers,
and cross seas as though they were shimmering sapphire; and all the harpies of hell down to
their dungeon at the stamp of womanly indignation.

But these are the exceptions. Generally, Dorcas would rather make a garment for the poor boy;
Rebecca would rather fill the trough for the camels; Hannah would rather make a coat for Samuel;
the Hebrew maid would rather give a prescription for Naaman's leprosy; the woman of Sarepta
would rather gather a few sticks to cook a meal for famished Elijah; Phebe would rather carry
a letter for the inspired apostle; Mother Lois would rather educate Timothy in the Scriptures.
When I see a woman going about her daily duty, with cheerful dignity presiding at the table,
with kind and gentle, but firm discipline presiding in the nursery, going out into the world
without any blast of trumpets, following in the footsteps of Him who went about doing good--I
say: "This is Vashti with a veil on."

But when I see a woman of unblushing boldness, loud-voiced, with a tongue of infinite clitter-clatter,
with arrogant look, passing through the streets with the step of a walking-beam, gayly arrayed
in a very hurricane of millinery, I cry out: "Vashti has lost her veil!" When I see a woman
struggling for political preferment--trying to force her way on up to the ballot-box, amid
the masculine demagogues who stand, with swollen fists and bloodshot eyes and pestiferous breath,
to guard the polls--wanting to go through the loaferism and the defilement of popular sovereigns,
who crawl up from the saloons greasy and foul and vermin-covered, to decide questions of justice
and order and civilization--when I see a woman, I say, who wants to press through all that
horrible scum to get to the ballot-box, I say: "Ah, what a pity! Vashti has lost her veil!"

When I see a woman of comely features, and of adroitness of intellect, and endowed with all
that the schools can do for one, and of high social position, yet moving in society with superciliousness
and hauteur, as though she would have people know their place, and with an undefined combination
of giggle and strut and rhodomontade, endowed with allopathic quantities of talk, but only
homeopathic infinitesimals of sense, the terror of dry-goods clerks and railroad conductors,
discoverers of significant meanings in plain conversation, prodigies of badinage and innuendo--I
say: "Vashti has lost her veil."

III. Again, I want you this morning to consider Vashti the sacrifice. Who is this that I see
coming out of that palace gate of Shushan? It seems to me that I have seen her before. She
comes homeless, houseless, friendless, trudging along with a broken heart. Who is she? It is
Vashti the sacrifice. Oh! what a change it was from regal position to a wayfarer's crust! A
little while ago, approved and sought for; now, none so poor as to acknowledge her acquaintanceship.
Vashti the sacrifice!

Ah! you and I have seen it many a time. Here is a home empalaced with beauty. All that refinement
and books and wealth can do for that home has been done; but Ahasuerus, the husband and the
father, is taking hold on paths of sin. He is gradually going down. After awhile he will flounder
and struggle like a wild beast in the hunter's net--further away from God, further away from
the right. Soon the bright apparel of the children will turn to rags; soon the household song
will become the sobbing of a broken heart. The old story over again. Brutal Centaurs breaking
up the marriage feast of Lapithæ. The house full of outrage and cruelty and abomination, while
trudging forth from the palace gate are Vashti and her children. There are homes represented
in this house this morning that are in danger of such breaking-up. Oh, Ahasuerus! that you
should stand in a home, by a dissipated life destroying the peace and comfort of that home.
God forbid that your children should ever have to wring their hands, and have people point
their finger at them as they pass down the street, and say, "There goes a drunkard's child."
God forbid that the little feet should ever have to trudge the path of poverty and wretchedness!
God forbid that any evil spirit born of the wine-cup or the brandy-glass should come forth
and uproot that garden, and with a lasting, blistering, all-consuming curse, shut forever the
palace gate against Vashti and the children.

One night during the war I went to Hagerstown to look at the army, and I stood on a hill-top
and looked down upon them. I saw the camp-fires all through the valleys and all over the hills.
It was a weird spectacle, those camp-fires, and I stood and watched them; and the soldiers
who were gathered around them were, no doubt, talking of their homes, and of the long march
they had taken, and of the battles they were to fight; but after awhile I saw these camp-fires
begin to lower; and they continued to lower, until they were all gone out, and the army slept.
It was imposing when I saw the camp-fires; it was imposing in the darkness when I thought of
that great host asleep. Well, God looks down from heaven, and He sees the fireside of Christendom
and the loved ones gathered around these firesides. These are the camp-fires where we warm
ourselves at the close of day, and talk over the battles of life we have fought and the battles
that are yet to come. God grant that when at last these fires begin to go out, and continue
to lower until finally they are extinguished, and the ashes of consumed hopes strew the hearth
of the old homestead, it may be because we have

    "Gone to sleep that last long sleep,
    From which none ever wake to weep."

Now we are an army on the march of life. Then we shall be an army bivouacked in the tent of
the grave.

IV. Once more: I want you to look at Vashti the silent. You do not hear any outcry from this
woman as she goes forth from the palace gate. From the very dignity of her nature, you know
there will be no vociferation. Sometimes in life it is necessary to make a retort; sometimes
in life it is necessary to resist; but there are crises when the most triumphant thing to do
is to keep silence. The philosopher, confident in his newly discovered principle, waited for
the coming of more intelligent generations, willing that men should laugh at the lightning-rod
and cotton-gin and steam-boat--waiting for long years through the scoffing of philosophical
schools, in grand and magnificent silence.

Galileo, condemned by mathematicians and monks and cardinals, caricatured everywhere, yet waiting
and watching with his telescope to see the coming up of stellar reenforcements, when the stars
in their courses would fight for the Copernican system; then sitting down in complete blindness
and deafness to wait for the coming on of the generations who would build his monument and
bow at his grave. The reformer, execrated by his contemporaries, fastened in a pillory, the
slow fires of public contempt burning under him, ground under the cylinders of the printing-press,
yet calmly waiting for the day when purity of soul and heroism of character will get the sanction
of earth and the plaudits of heaven.

Affliction enduring without any complaint the sharpness of the pang, and the violence of the
storm, and the heft of the chain, and the darkness of the night--waiting until a Divine hand
shall be put forth to soothe the pang, and hush the storm, and release the captive. A wife
abused, persecuted, and a perpetual exile from every earthly comfort--waiting, waiting, until
the Lord shall gather up His dear children in a heavenly home, and no poor Vashti will ever
be thrust out from the palace gate.

Jesus, in silence and answering not a word, drinking the gall, bearing the cross, in prospect
of the rapturous consummation when

    "Angels thronged their chariot wheel,
      And bore Him to His throne,
    Then swept their golden harps and sung,
      'The glorious work is done!'" My sermon
converges into the one absorbing hope that none of you may be shut out
of the palace gate of heaven. You can endure the hardships, and the
privations, and the cruelties, and the misfortunes of this life if you
can only gain admission there. Through the blood of the everlasting
covenant you go through those gates, or never go at all. God forbid
that you should at last be banished from the society of angels, and
banished from the companionship of your glorified kindred, and
banished forever. Through the rich grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, may
you be enabled to imitate the example of Rachel, and Hannah, and
Abigail, and Deborah, and Mary, and Esther, and Vashti.

THE DAY WE LIVE IN.

    "Who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a
    time as this?"--ESTHER iv. 14.

Esther the beautiful was the wife of Ahasuerus the abominable. The time had come for her to
present a petition to her infamous husband in behalf of the Jewish nation, to which she had
once belonged. She was afraid to undertake the work, lest she should lose her own life; but
her uncle, Mordecai, who had brought her up, encouraged her with the suggestion that probably
she had been raised up of God for that peculiar mission. "Who knoweth whether thou art come
to the kingdom for such a time as this?" Esther had her God-appointed work; you and I have
ours. It is my business to tell you what style of men and women you ought to be in order that
you meet the demand of the age in which God has cast your lot. If you have come expecting to
hear abstractions discussed, or dry technicalities of religion glorified, you have come to
the wrong church; but if you really would like to know what this age has a right to expect
of you as Christian men and women, then I am ready in the Lord's name to look you in the face.
When two armies have rushed into battle the officers of either army do not want a philosophical
discussion about the chemical properties of human blood or the nature of gunpowder; they want
some one to man the batteries and swab out the guns. And now, when all the forces of light
and darkness, of heaven and hell, have plunged into the fight, it is no time to give ourselves
to the definitions and formulas and technicalities and conventionalities of religion.

What we want is practical, earnest, concentrated, enthusiastic, and triumphant help.

I. In the first place, in order to meet the special demand of this age, you need to be an unmistakably
aggressive Christian. Of half-and-half Christians we do not want any more. The Church of Jesus
Christ will be better without ten thousand of them. They are the chief obstacle to the Church's
advancement. I am speaking of another kind of Christian. All the appliances for your becoming
an earnest Christian are at your hand, and there is a straight path for you into the broad
daylight of God's forgiveness. You may have come into this Tabernacle the bondsmen of the world,
and yet before you go out of these doors you may become princes of the Lord God Almighty. You
remember what excitement there was in this country, years ago, when the Prince of Wales came
here--how the people rushed out by hundreds of thousands to see him. Why? Because they expected
that some day he would sit upon the throne of England. But what was all that honor compared
with the honor to which God calls you--to be sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty; yea,
to be queens and kings unto God? "They shall reign with Him forever and forever."

But, my friends, you need to be aggressive Christians, and not like those persons who spend
their lives in hugging their Christian graces and wondering why they do not make any progress.
How much robustness of health would a man have if he hid himself in a dark closet? A great
deal of the piety of the day is too exclusive. It hides itself. It needs more fresh air, more
out-door exercise. There are many Christians who are giving their entire life to self-examination.
They are feeling their pulses to see what is the condition of their spiritual health. How long
would a man have robust physical health if he kept all the days and weeks and months and years
of his life feeling his pulse instead of going out into active, earnest, every-day work?

I was once amid the wonderful, bewitching cactus growths of North Carolina. I never was more
bewildered with the beauty of flowers, and yet when I would take up one of these cactuses and
pull the leaves apart, the beauty was all gone. You could hardly tell that it had ever been
a flower. And there are a great many Christian people in this day just pulling apart their
Christian experiences to see what there is in them, and there is nothing left in them. This
style of self-examination is a damage instead of an advantage to their Christian character.
I remember when I was a boy I used to have a small piece in the garden that I called my own,
and I planted corn there, and every few days I would pull it up to see how fast it was growing.
Now, there are a great many Christian people in this day whose self-examination merely amounts
to the pulling up of that which they only yesterday or the day before planted.

O my friends! if you want to have a stalwart Christian character, plant it right out of doors
in the great field of Christian usefulness, and though storms may come upon it, and though
the hot sun of trial may try to consume it, it will thrive until it becomes a great tree, in
which the fowls of heaven may have their habitation. I have no patience with these flower-pot
Christians. They keep themselves under shelter, and all their Christian experience in a small,
exclusive circle, when they ought to plant it in the great garden of the Lord, so that the
whole atmosphere could be aromatic with their Christian usefulness. What we want in the Church
of God is more brawn of piety.

The century plant is wonderfully suggestive and wonderfully beautiful, but I never look at
it without thinking of its parsimony. It lets whole generations go by before it puts forth
one blossom; so I have really more heartfelt admiration when I see the dewy tears in the blue
eyes of the violets, for they come every spring. My Christian friends, time is going by so
rapidly that we can not afford to be idle.

A recent statistician says that human life now has an average of only thirty-two years. From
these thirty-two years you must subtract all the time you take for sleep and the taking of
food and recreation; that will leave you about sixteen years. From those sixteen years you
must subtract all the time that you are necessarily engaged in the earning of a livelihood;
that will leave you about eight years. From those eight years you must take all the days and
weeks and months--all the length of time that is passed in childhood and sickness, leaving
you about one year in which to work for God. Oh, my soul, wake up! How darest thou sleep in
harvest-time and with so few hours in which to reap? So that I state it as a simple fact that
all the time that the vast majority of you will have for the exclusive service of God will
be less than one year!

"But," says some man, "I liberally support the Gospel, and the church is open and the Gospel
is preached: all the spiritual advantages are spread before men, and if they want to be saved,
let them come to be saved; I have discharged all my responsibility." Ah! is that the Master's
spirit? Is there not an old Book somewhere that commands us to go out into the highways and
the hedges and compel the people to come in? What would have become of you and me if Christ
had not come down off the hills of heaven, and if He had not come through the door of the Bethlehem
caravansary, and if He had not with the crushed hand of the crucifixion knocked at the iron
gate of the sepulcher of our spiritual death, crying, "Lazarus, come forth"? Oh, my Christian
friends, this is no time for inertia, when all the forces of darkness seem to be in full blast;
when steam printing-presses are publishing infidel tracts; when express railroad trains are
carrying messengers of sin; when fast clippers are laden with opium and rum; when the night-air
of our cities is polluted with the laughter that breaks up from the ten thousand saloons of
dissipation and abandonment; when the fires of the second death already are kindled in the
cheeks of some who, only a little while ago, were incorrupt. Oh, never since the curse fell
upon the earth has there been a time when it was such an unwise, such a cruel, such an awful
thing for the Church to sleep! The great audiences are not gathered in the Christian churches;
the great audiences are gathered in temples of sin--tears of unutterable woe their baptism,
the blood of crushed hearts the awful wine of their sacrament, blasphemies their litany, and
the groans of the lost world the organ dirge of their worship.

II. Again, if you want to be qualified to meet the duties which this age demands of you, you
must on the one hand avoid reckless iconoclasm, and on the other hand not stick too much to
things because they are old. The air is full of new plans, new projects, new theories of government,
new theologies, and I am amazed to see how so many Christians want only novelty in order to
recommend a thing to their confidence; and so they vacillate and swing to and fro, and they
are useless, and they are unhappy. New plans--secular, ethical, philosophical, religious, cisatlantic,
transatlantic--long enough to make a line reaching from the German universities to Great Salt
Lake City. Ah, my brother, do not take hold of a thing merely because it is new. Try it by
the realities of a Judgment Day.

But, on the other hand, do not adhere to any thing merely because it is old. There is not a
single enterprise of the Church or the world but has sometimes been scoffed at. There was a
time when men derided even Bible societies; and when a few young men met near a hay-stack in
Massachusetts and organized the first missionary society ever organized in this country, there
went laughter and ridicule all around the Christian Church. They said the undertaking was preposterous.
And so also the work of Jesus Christ was assailed. People cried out, "Who ever heard of such
theories of ethics and government? Who ever noticed such a style of preaching as Jesus has?"
Ezekiel had talked of mysterious wings and wheels. Here came a man from Capernaum and Gennesaret,
and he drew his illustration from the lakes, from the sand, from the ravine, from the lilies,
from the corn-stalks. How the Pharisees scoffed! How Herod derided! How Caiaphas hissed! And
this Jesus they plucked by the beard, and they spat in his face, and they called him "this
fellow!" All the great enterprises in and out of the Church have at times been scoffed at,
and there have been a great multitude who have thought that the chariot of God's truth would
fall to pieces if it once got out of the old rut.

And so there are those who have no patience with anything like improvement in church architecture,
or with anything like good, hearty, earnest church singing, and they deride any form of religious
discussion which goes down walking among every-day men rather than that which makes an excursion
on rhetorical stilts. Oh, that the Church of God would wake up to an adaptability of work!
We must admit the simple fact that the churches of Jesus Christ in this day do not reach the
great masses. There are fifty thousand people in Edinburgh who never hear the Gospel. There
are one million people in London who never hear the Gospel. There are at least three hundred
thousand souls in the city of Brooklyn who come not under the immediate ministrations of Christ's
truth; and the Church of God in this day, instead of being a place full of living epistles,
read and known of all men, is more like a "dead-letter" post-office.

"But," say the people, "the world is going to be converted; you must be patient; the kingdoms
of this world are to become the kingdoms of Christ," Never, unless the Church of Jesus Christ
puts on more speed and energy. Instead of the Church converting the world, the world is converting
the Church. Here is a great fortress. How shall it be taken? An army comes and sits around
about it, cuts off the supplies, and says: "Now we will just wait until from exhaustion and
starvation they will have to give up." Weeks and months, and perhaps a year, pass along, and
finally the fortress surrenders through that starvation and exhaustion. But, my friends, the
fortresses of sin are never to be taken in that way. If they are taken for God it will be by
storm; you will have to bring up the great siege guns of the Gospel to the very wall and wheel
the flying artillery into line, and when the armed infantry of heaven shall confront the battlements
you will have to give the quick command, "Forward! Charge!"

Ah, my friends, there is work for you to do and for me to do in order to this grand accomplishment!
Here is my pulpit, and I preach in it. Your pulpit is the bank. Your pulpit is the store. Your
pulpit is the editorial chair. Your pulpit is the anvil. Your pulpit is the house scaffolding.
Your pulpit is the mechanic's shop. I may stand in this place and, through cowardice or through
self-seeking, may keep back the word I ought to utter; while you, with sleeve rolled up and
brow besweated with toil, may utter the word that will jar the foundations of heaven with the
shout of a great victory. Oh, that this morning this whole audience might feel that the Lord
Almighty was putting upon them the hands of ordination. I tell you, every one, go forth and
preach this gospel. You have as much right to preach as I have, or as any man has. Only find
out the pulpit where God will have you preach, and there preach.

Hedley Vicars was a wicked man in the English army. The grace of God came to him. He became
an earnest and eminent Christian. They scoffed at him, and said: "You are a hypocrite; you
are as bad as ever you were." Still he kept his faith in Christ, and after awhile, finding
that they could not turn him aside by calling him a hypocrite, they said to him: "Oh, you are
nothing but a Methodist." That did not disturb him. He went on performing his Christian duty
until he had formed all his troop into a Bible-class, and the whole encampment was shaken with
the presence of God. So Havelock went into the heathen temple in India while the English army
was there, and put a candle into the hand of each of the heathen gods that stood around in
the heathen temple, and by the light of those candles, held up by the idols, General Havelock
preached righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come. And who will say, on earth or in
Heaven, that Havelock had not the right to preach?

In the minister's house where I prepared for college, there was a man who worked, by the name
of Peter Croy. He could neither read nor write, but he was a man of God. Often theologians
would stop in the house--grave theologians--and at family prayers Peter Croy would be called
upon to lead; and all those wise men sat around, wonder-struck at his religious efficiency.
When he prayed he reached up and seemed to take hold of the very throne of the Almighty, and
he talked with God until the very heavens were bowed down into the sitting-room. Oh, if I were
dying I would rather have plain Peter Croy kneel by my bedside and commend my immortal spirit
to God than the greatest archbishop, arrayed in costly canonicals. Go preach this Gospel. You
say you are not licensed. In the name of the Lord Almighty, this morning, I license you. Go
preach this Gospel--preach it in the Sabbath-schools, in the prayer-meetings, in the highways,
in the hedges. Woe be unto you if you preach it not.

III. I remark, again, that in order to be qualified to meet your duty in this particular age
you want unbounded faith in the triumph of the truth and the overthrow of wickedness. How dare
the Christian Church ever get discouraged? Have we not the Lord Almighty on our side? How long
did it take God to slay the hosts of Sennacherib or burn Sodom or shake down Jericho? How long
will it take God, when He once arises in His strength, to overthrow all the forces of iniquity?
Between this time and that there may be long seasons of darkness--the chariot-wheels of God's
Gospel may seem to drag heavily; but here is the promise, and yonder is the throne; and when
Omniscience has lost its eyesight, and Omnipotence falls back impotent, and Jehovah is driven
from His throne, then the Church of Jesus Christ can afford to be despondent, but never until
then. Despots may plan and armies may march, and the congresses of the nations may seem to
think they are adjusting all the affairs of the world, but the mighty men of the earth are
only the dust of the chariot-wheels of God's providence.

I think that before the sun of this century shall set the last tyranny will fall, and with
a splendor of demonstration that shall be the astonishment of the universe God will set forth
the brightness and pomp and glory and perpetuity of His eternal government. Out of the starry
flags and the emblazoned insignia of this world God will make a path for His own triumph, and,
returning from universal conquest, He will sit down, the grandest, strongest, highest throne
of earth His footstool.

    "Then shall all nations' song ascend
    To Thee, our Ruler, Father, Friend,
    Till heaven's high arch resounds again
    With 'Peace on earth, good will to men.'"

I preach this sermon because I want to encourage all Christian workers in every possible department.
Hosts of the living God, march on! march on! His Spirit will bless you. His shield will defend
you. His sword will strike for you. March on! march on! The despotism will fall, and paganism
will burn its idols, and Mohammedanism will give up its false prophet, and Judaism will confess
the true Messiah, and the great walls of superstition will come down in thunder and wreck at
the long, loud blast of the Gospel trumpet. March on! march on! The besiegement will soon be
ended. Only a few more steps on the long way; only a few more sturdy blows; only a few more
battle cries, then God will put the laurel upon your brow, and from the living fountains of
heaven will bathe off the sweat and the heat and the dust of the conflict. March on! march
on! For you the time for work will soon be passed, and amid the outflashings of the judgment
throne, and the trumpeting of resurrection angels, and the upheaving of a world of graves,
and the hosanna and the groaning of the saved and the lost, we shall be rewarded for our faithfulness
or punished for our stupidity. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting,
and let the whole earth be filled with His glory. Amen and Amen.

CAPITAL AND LABOR.

    "Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so
    to them."--MATT. vii: 12.

The greatest war the world has ever seen is between capital and labor. The strife is not like
that which in history is called the Thirty Years' War, for it is a war of centuries, it is
a war of the five continents, it is a war hemispheric. The middle classes in this country,
upon whom the nation has depended for holding the balance of power and for acting as mediators
between the two extremes, are diminishing; and if things go on at the same ratio as they are
now going, it will not be very long before there will be no middle class in this country, but
all will be very rich or very poor, princes or paupers, and the country will be given up to
palaces and hovels.

The antagonistic forces are closing in upon each other. The telegraphic operators' strikes,
the railroad employés' strikes, the Pennsylvania miners' strikes, the movements of the Boycotters
and the dynamiters are only skirmishes before a general engagement, or, if you prefer it, escapes
through the safety-valves of an imprisoned force which promises the explosion of society. You
may pooh-pooh it; you may say that this trouble, like an angry child, will cry itself to sleep;
you may belittle it by calling it Fourierism, or Socialism, or St. Simonism, or Nihilism, or
Communism; but that will not hinder the fact that it is the mightiest, the darkest, the most
terrific threat of this century. All attempts at pacification have been dead failures, and
monopoly is more arrogant, and the trades unions more bitter. "Give us more wages," cry the
employés. "You shall have less," say the capitalists. "Compel us to do fewer hours of toil
in a day." "You shall toil more hours," say the others. "Then, under certain conditions, we
will not work at all," say these. "Then you shall starve," say those, and the workmen gradually
using up that which they accumulated in better times, unless there be some radical change,
we shall have soon in this country three million hungry men and women. Now, three million hungry
people can not be kept quiet. All the enactments of legislatures and all the constabularies
of the cities, and all the army and navy of the United States can not keep three million hungry
people quiet. What then? Will this war between capital and labor be settled by human wisdom?
Never. The brow of the one becomes more rigid, the fist of the other more clinched.

