"Do you know, I'm more afraid of her than ever," said Sir Basil to Valerie on their way home
to tea, in the cab. "I wasn't really afraid before. I could have borne up very well; but now--it's
like knowing that one is to have tea with a seraph."

Jack, Imogen, and Mary were not yet arrived when they reached the house; but by the time the
tea was on the table and Valerie in her place behind the urn, they heard the cab drive up and
the feet of the young people on the stairs.

Jack entered alone, saying that Mary and Imogen were gone to take off their wraps. Yes, he
assured Valerie, they had promised to keep on their Grecian robes for tea.

Valerie introduced him to the Pakenhams and led the congratulations on his triumph. "For it
really is yours, Jack, as much as if you had painted the whole series of pictures."

Jack, looking shy, turned from one to the other as they seconded her enthusiasm,--Mrs. Pakenham,
with her elaborately formal head and china-blue eyes; her husband, robust and heavy; Sir Basil,
still with his benignant, unseeing quality. Among them all, in spite of Mrs. Wake's keen, familiar
visage, in spite of Valerie's soft glow, he felt himself a stranger. He even felt, with a little
stab of ill-temper, that there had been truth in Imogen's diagnosis. They were kindly, but
they were tremendously indifferent. They didn't at all expect you to be interested in them;
but that hardly atoned for the fact that they weren't interested in you. For Jack, life was
made up of vigilant, unceasing interest, in himself and in everybody else.

"Ah, were they all taken from your pictures?" Sir Basil asked him, strolling up to the mantelpiece
to examine a photograph of Imogen that stood there.

Jack explained that he could claim no such gallery of achievement. He had made a few sketches
for each tableau; his work had been, in the main, that of stage-manager.

"Oh, I see," said Sir Basil, not at all abashed by his blunder. "Nicer than lay figures to
work with, eh? all those pretty young women."

"I don't use lay figures, at any time. I'm a landscape painter," Jack explained, somewhat stiffly.
He surmised that had he been introduced as Velasquez Sir Basil would have been quite as unmoved,
just as he would have been quite as genially inclined had he been introduced as a scene-painter.

"I used to think I'd go in for something of that sort in my young days," said Sir Basil, holding
Imogen's photograph; "and I dabbled a bit in water-color for a time. Do you remember that little
sketch of the Hall, done from the beech avenue, Mrs. Upton? Not so bad, was it?"

"Not at all bad," said Valerie; "but we can't use such negatives for Jack's work. It's very
seriously good, you know. It's anything but dabbling."

"Oh, yes; I know that you are a real artist," Sir Basil smiled at Jack from the photograph.
"This doesn't do her justice, does it?"

"Imogen? No; it's a frightful thing," said Jack over-emphatically.

Mrs. Pakenham asked to see it and pronounced that, for her part, she thought it excellent.

"You ought to paint her portrait," Sir Basil continued, looking at Jack, who had, once more,
to explain that landscape was his only subject. He guessed from the something at once benign
and faintly quizzical in Sir Basil's regard, that to all these people he was significant, in
the main, as Imogen's lover, and the intuition vexed him still further.

Imogen's entrance, startling in its splendid incongruity, put an end to his self-consciousness
and absorbed him in contemplation.

Imogen revealed herself newly, even to him, to-day. It wasn't the old Imogen of stateliness,
graciousness, placidity, nor the later one of gloom and anger. This Imogen, lovely, with her
flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes, was deeply excited, deeply self-forgetful. She, too, was
absorbed in her intense curiosity, her feverish watchfulness.

She said nothing while her mother introduced her to the new-comers, who all looked a little
taken aback, as though the resuscitated Grecian heroine were indeed among them, and stood silently
alert near the tea-table, handing the cups of tea, the cakes and scones, for Jack and Sir Basil
to pass round. Her arms were bare and her slender bare feet, laced with gold-clasped fastenings,
showed on her white sandals. Jack saw that Sir Basil's eyes were fixed on her with an expression
of wonder.

He asked her, as he took the last cup from her, if she were not cold, and, gentle, though unsmiling,
Imogen replied, "Oh, no!" glancing at the roaring wood fire, that illuminated her whiteness
as if with a sacrificial glow.

"Do sit down and have your tea, Imogen; you must be very tired," her mother said, with something
of the chill that the scene at the lunch-table had diffused still in her voice.

"Not very, thanks, mama dear," said Imogen; and, more incongruous in loveliness than before,
she sat down in a high-backed chair at some little distance from the tea-table. Sir Basil,
as if with a sort of helplessness, remained beside her.

"Yes, it was a great success, wasn't it?" Jack heard her replying presently, while she drank
the tea with which Sir Basil had eagerly supplied her. "I'm so glad."

"You liked doing it, didn't you? You couldn't have done it, like that--looked like that, if
you hadn't cared a lot about it," Sir Basil pursued.

Imogen smiled a little and said that she didn't know that she had liked doing her part particularly,--it
was of her crippled children that she was thinking. "We'll be able to get the Home now," she said.

"It was for cripple children?"

"Didn't you know? I should have thought mama would have told you. Yes, it all meant that, only
that, to me. We gave the tableaux to get enough money to buy a country home for them."

"You go in a lot for good works, I know," said Sir Basil, and Imogen, smiling again, with the
lightness rooted in excitement, answered: "They go in for me, rather. All the appeals of suffering
seem to come to one and seize one, don't they? One never needs to seek causes."

Jack watched them talk, Imogen, the daughter of the dead, rejected husband, and Sir Basil,
her mother's suitor.

Mary had come in now, late from changing her dress, which at the last moment she had felt too
shy to appear in. She was talking to Mrs. Wake and the Pakenhams.

Standing, a somewhat brooding onlooker, becoming conscious, indeed, of the sense, stronger
than ever, of loneliness and bereavement, he heard Mrs. Upton near him say, "Sit down here, Jack."

She showed him a chair beside her, in the corner, between her tea-table, the window, and the
fire. She, too, was for the moment isolated; she, too, no doubt, had been watching; and now
she talked to him, not at all as if she had felt that he were lonely and were making it up
to him, but, once more, like the child happily gathering and holding out nosegays to another child.

A controlled excitement was in her, too; and he felt still that slight strain of the lunch-table,
as if Imogen's catafalque had marred some too-trustful assurance; but a growing warmth was
diffused through it, and, as her eyes turned once or twice on Imogen and Sir Basil, he saw
the cause.

The possibility that her daughter might make friends with her suitor, the solvent, soothing
possibility that, if realized, would so smooth her path, had come to her. And in their quiet
fire-lit corner, shut the closer into their isolation by the talk that made only a confused
murmur about them, he felt a new frankness in her, as though the hope of the hour effaced ominous
memories and melted her reserves and discretions, making it wholly natural to draw near him
in the implied avowal of shared outlooks.

"I believe that Imogen and Sir Basil are going to get on together," she said; "I believe that
she likes him already. I so want them to be friends. He is such a friend of mine."

"They look friendly," said Jack; "I think I can always tell when Imogen is going to like people."
He did not add that, with his new insight about Imogen, he had observed that it was people
over whom she had power that Imogen liked. And already he seemed to see that Imogen would have
some sort of power over Sir Basil.

"And I can always tell when he is going to like people. He thinks her wonderful," said Valerie.
She exchanged her knowledge with him; it was touching, the way in which, blind to deep change
in him, she took for granted his greater claim to the interpretation of Imogen. She added:
"It is a very propitious beginning, I think."

"How long is Sir Basil going to stay here?" Jack asked.

"All summer. He goes to Canada with the Pakenhams, and out to the West, for a glimpse of the
changes since he was here years and years ago; and then I want him to come to Vermont, to us.
You and Imogen will both get to know him well there. Of course you are coming; Imogen told
me that she asked you long ago."

"Yes; I shall enjoy that immensely," the young man answered, with, for his own consciousness,
a touch of irrepressible gloom. He didn't look forward to the continuation of the drama, to
his own lame and merely negative part in it, at the close quarters of a house-party among the
Vermont hills.

And as if Valerie bad felt the inner doubt she added suddenly, on a different key, "You really
will enjoy it, won't you?"

He looked up at her. Her face, illuminated by the firelight, though dimmed against the evening
blue outside, was turned on him with its sudden intentness and penetration of gaze.

"Why, of course," he almost stammered, confused by the unexpected scrutiny.

"I shall love having you, you know," she said.

"I shall love being with you," he answered, now without a single inner reserve.

Her intentness seemed to soften, there was solicitude and a sort of persuasiveness in it. "And
you will have a much better chance of really adjusting things there--your friendship with Imogen,
I mean. The country smoothes things out. Things get sweet and simple."

He didn't know what to say. Her mistake, if it were one, was so inevitable.

"Imogen will have taken her bearings by then," she went on. "She has had so much to get accustomed
to, to bear with, poor child; her great bereavement, and--and a mother who, in some ways, must
always be a trial to her."

"Oh, a trial!"--Jack lamely murmured.

"I recognize it, Jack. I think that you do. But when she makes up her mind to me, and discovers
that, at all events, I don't interfere with anything that she really cares about, she will
be able to take up all her old threads again."

"I--I suppose so," Jack murmured.

He had dropped his eyes, for he knew that hers were on him. And now, in a lowered voice, he
heard her say, "Jack, I hope that you will help me with Imogen."

"Help you? How do you mean?" startled, he looked up.

"You know. Interpret me to her now and then, when you can, with kindliness. You understand
me so much more kindly than she does."

His eyes fixed on hers, deeply flushing--"Oh, but,"--he breathed out with almost a long sigh,--"that's
what I have done, you see, ever since--"

"Ever since what?"

"Since I came to understand you so much better than she does."

There was a long pause now and, the firelight flickering low, he could hardly see her face.
But he recognized change in her voice as she said: "You have? I don't mean, you know, taking
my side in disputes."

"I know; I don't mean that, either, though, perhaps, I can't help doing it; for," said Jack,
"it's on your side that I am, you know."

The change in her voice, but controlled, kept down, she answered quickly,

"Ah, but, dear Jack, I don't want to have a side. It's that that I want her to realize. I want
her to feel that my side is hers. I want you to help me in making her feel it."

"But she'll never feel it!" Jack breathed out again. Behind the barrier of the tea-table, in
the flickering dimness, they were speaking suddenly with a murmuring, yet so sharp a confidence;
a confidence that in broad daylight, or in complete solitude, might have seemed impossible.
All sorts of things must steal out in that persuasive, that peopled yet solitary, twilight.

He knew that Valerie's eyes dwelt on him with anxiety and that it was with a faint, forced
smile that she asked him: "She doesn't think that I'll ever reach her side?"

"I don't believe you ever will," said Jack. Then, for he couldn't bear that she should misunderstand
him for another moment, misunderstanding when they had come so far was too unendurable, he
went on in a hurried undertone: "You aren't on her side, really. You can never be on her side.
You can never be like her, or see like her. And I don't want you to. It's you who see clearly,
not she. It's you who are all right."

Her long silence, after this, seemed to him like the hovering of hands upon him; as though,
in darkness, she sought by touch to recognize some strange object put before her.

"But then,--" she, too, only breathed it out at last,--"but then,--you are not on her side."

"That's just it," said Jack. He did not look at her and she was silent once more before his
confession.

"But," she again took up the search, "that is terrible for her, if she feels it."

"And for me, too, isn't it?" he questioned, as if he turned the surfaces of the object beneath
her fingers.

The soft, frightened hover seemed to go all over it, to recognize it finally, and to draw back,
terrified, from recognition.

"Most terrible of all for me, if I have come between you," she said.

Her pain pierced him so, that he put out his hand and took hers. Don't think that; you mustn't
think that, not for a moment. It's not that you came between us. It's only that, because of
you, I began to see things--as I hadn't seen them. It was just,--well, just like seeing one
color change when another is put beside it. Imogen's blue, now that your gold has come, is
turned to green; that's all that has happened."

"All that has happened! Do you know what you are saying, Jack! If my gold were gone, would
the blue come back again?"

"The blue will never come back," said Jack.

He felt, as her hand tightened on his, that he would have liked to put his head down on her
knees and sob like a little boy; but when she said, "And the green you cannot care for?" his
own hand tightened as if they clutched some secret together, some secret that neither must
dare look at. "You mustn't think that--you mustn't. And I mustn't." He said it with all the
revolt and all the strength of his will and loyalty; with all his longing, too. "The real truth
is that the green can't care for me unless I will see it back to blue again--and as I can't
do that, and as it won't accept my present vision, there is a sort of dead-lock."

For a long moment her hand continued to grasp his, before, as if taking in the ambiguous comfort
of his final definiteness, it relaxed and she drew it away.

"Perhaps she will care enough," she said.

"To accept my vision? To forego blue? To consent that I shall see her as green?"

"Yes, when she has taken up all the threads."

"Perhaps she will," said Jack.

XVI

It was a few days after this, just before Jack's return to Boston--and the parting now was
to be until they met in Vermont--that he and Imogen had another walk, another talk together.

The mid-May had become seasonably mild and, at Jack's suggestion, they had taken the elevated
cars up to Central Park for the purpose of there seeing the wistaria in its full bloom.

They strolled in the sunlight under arbors rippling all over with the exquisite purple, dark
and pale, the thin fine leaves of a strange olive-green, the delicate tendrils; they passed
into open spaces where, on gray rocks, it streamed like the tresses of a cascade; it climbed
and heaped itself on wayside trellises and ran nimbly, in a shower of fragile color, up the
trunks, along the branches, of the trees. Jack always afterward associated the soft, falling
purple, the soft, languorous fragrance, the almost uncanny beauty of the wistaria, with melancholy
and presage.

Imogen, for the first time since her father's death, showed a concession to the year's revival
in a transparent band of white at her neck and wrists. Her little hat, too, was of transparent
black, its crape put aside. But, though she and the day shared in bloom and youthfulness, Jack
had never seen her look more heavily bodeful; had never seen her eyes more fixed, her lips
more cold and stern. The excitement that he had felt in her was gone. Her curiosity, her watchfulness,
had been satisfied, and grimly rewarded. She faced sinister facts. Jack felt himself ready
to face them, too.

They had spoken little in the clattering car, and for a long time after they reached the park
and walked hither and thither among its paths, following at random the beckoning purple of
the wistaria, neither spoke of anything but commonplaces; indicating points of view, or assenting
to appreciations. But Imogen said at last, and he knew that with the words she led him up to
those facts: "Do you remember, Jack, the day we met mama, you and I, on the docks?"

Jack replied that he did.

"What a different day from this," said Imogen, "with its frosty glory, its challenge, its strength."

"Very different."

"And how different our lives are," said Imogen.

He did not reply for some moments, and it was then to say gently that he hoped they were not
so different as, perhaps, they seemed.

"It is not I who have changed, Jack," said Imogen, looking before her. And going on, as though
she wished to hear no reply to this: "Do you remember how we felt as the steamer came in? We
determined that she should change nothing, that we wouldn't yield to any menace of the things
we were then united in holding dear. It's strange, isn't it, to see how subtly she has changed
everything? It's as if our frosty, sparkling landscape, all wind and vigor and discipline,
were suddenly transformed to this,--" Imogen looked about her at the limpid day,--"to soft
yielding, soft color, soft perfume,--it's like mama, that fragrance of the wistaria,--to something
smiling, languid, alluring. This is the sort of day on which one drifts. Our past day was a
day of steering."

As much as for the meaning of her careful words, Jack felt rising in him an anger against the
sense of a readiness prepared beforehand. "You describe it all very prettily, Imogen," he answered,
mastering the anger. "But I don't agree with you."

"You seldom do now, Jack. Perhaps it's because I've remained in my own climate while you have
been borne by the 'warm, sweet, harmless' current into this one."

"I am not conscious of any tendency to drift, Imogen. I still steer. I intend, very firmly,
always to steer."

"To what, may I ask?"

He was silent for a moment; then said, lifting eyes in which she read all that new steeliness
of opposition, with, yet, in it, through it, the sadness of hopeless appeal: "I believe in
all our ideals--just as I used to."

To this Imogen made no rejoinder.

"Do you like Sir Basil?" she asked presently, after, for some time, they had turned along the
windings of a long path in a heavy silence.

"I've hardly seen him." Jack's voice had a forced lightness, as though for relief at the change
of subject; but he guessed that the change was only apparent. "He is very nice; very delightful
looking."

"Yes; very delightful looking. Do you happen to remember what I said to you about him, long
ago, in the winter? About him and mama?"

"Yes"; Jack flushed; "I remember."

"I told you to wait."

"Yes; you told me to wait."

"You will own now, I hope, that I was right."

"Right in thinking that he--that they were more than friends?"

"Right in thinking that he was in love with her; that she allowed it."

"I suppose you were right."

"I was right. And it's more than that now. I have every reason to believe that she intends
to marry him."

He ignored her portentous pause and drop of the voice, walking on with downcast eyes. "You
mean, it's an accepted thing?"

"Oh, no! not yet accepted. Mama respects the black edge, you know. But I heard Mrs. Wake and
Mrs. Pakenham talking about it."

"Heard? How could you have heard?" Jack's eyes, stern with accusation, were now upon her.

It was impossible for Imogen to lie consciously, and though she had not, in her eagerness that
he should own her right and share her reprobation, foreseen this confrontation, she held, before
it, all the dignity of full sincerity.

"You are changed, indeed, Jack, when you can suspect me of eavesdropping! I was asleep on the
sofa in the library, worn out with work, and I woke to hear them talking in the next room,
with the door ajar. I did not realize, for some moments, what was being said. And then they
went out."

"Of course I don't suspect you; of course I don't think that you would eavesdrop; though I
do hate--hearing," Jack muttered.

"I hope you realize that I share your hatred," said Imogen. "But your opinion of me is not,
here, to the point. I only wish to put before you what I have now to bear, Mrs. Pakenham said
that she wagered that before the year was out Sir Basil would have married mama." Imogen paused,
breathing deeply.

Jack walked on beside her, not knowing what to say. "I think so, too, and wish her joy," would
have been the truest rendering of his feeling.

He curbed it to ask cautiously, "And you mind so much?"

"Mind!" she repeated, a thunderous echo.

"You dislike it so?"

"Dislike? You use strangely inapt words."

He had another parenthetic shoot of impatience with her dreadful articulateness; had Imogen
always talked so much like the heroine of a novel with a purpose?

"I only meant--can't you put up with it?"

"Put up with it? Can I do anything else? What power have I over her? You don't seem to understand.
I have passed beyond caring that she makes herself petty, ridiculous; as a woman of her age
must in marrying again--the clutch of fading life at the happiness it has forfeited. Let her
clutch if she chooses; let her marry if she chooses, whom she chooses, yes, when she chooses.
But don't you see how it shatters my every hope of her,--my every ideal of her? And don't you
see how my heart is pierced by the presence of that man in my father's house, the house that
she abandoned and cast a shadow upon? How filled with bitter shame and anguish I am when I
see him there, in that house, sacred to my grief and to my memories--making love to my mother?"

No, really, never, never had he heard Imogen so fluent and so dramatically telling; and never
had he been so unmoved by the feeling under the fluency. It was as if he could believe in none.

He remained silent and Imogen continued: "When she came back, I believed that it was with an
impulse of penitence; with the wish, shallow though I knew that it must be in such a nature,
to atone to me for the ruin that she had made in his life. I was all tenderness and sympathy
for her, all a longing to help and sustain her--as you must remember. But now! It fulfils all
that I had feared and suspected in her--and more than all! She left England, she came here,
that the conventions might be observed; and, considering them observed enough for her purpose,
she receives her suitor, eight months after my father's lonely death,-in the house where my
heart breaks and bleeds for him, where I mourn for him, where I--alone, it seems--feel him
flouted and betrayed! And she talks of her love for me!"

Jack was wondering that her coherent passion did not beat him into helpless acquiescence; but,
instead, he found himself at once replying, "You don't see fairly. You exaggerate it all. She
was unhappy with your father. For years he made her unhappy. And now, if she can care for a
man who can make her happy, she has a right, a perfect right, to take her happiness. As for
her loving you, I don't believe that any one loves you more truly. It's your chance, now, to
show your love for her."

Imogen stood still and looked at him from the black disk of her parasol.

"I think I've suspected this of you, too, Jack," she said. "Yes, I've suspected, in dreadful
moments of revelation, how far your undermining has gone. And you say you are not changed!"

"Would you ask your mother never to marry again?"

"I would--if she were in any way to redeem her image in my eyes. But, granting to the full
that one must make concessions to such creatures of the senses, I would ask her, at the very
least, to have waited."

"Creatures of the senses!" Jack repeated in a helpless gasp; such words, in their austere vocabulary,
were hardly credible. "Do you know what you are saying, you arrogant, you heartless girl?"

Her face seemed to flash at him like lightning from a black cloud, and with the lightning a
reality that had lacked before to leap to her voice:

"Ah! At last--at last you are saying what you have felt for a long time! At last I know what
you think of me! So be it! I don't retract one jot or tittle of what I say. Mama is a perfectly
moral woman, if you actually imagine some base imputation; but she lives for the pleasant,
the pretty, the easy. She doesn't love this man's soul--nor care if he has one. Her love for
him is a parody of the love that my father taught me to understand and to hold sacred. She
loves his love for her; his 'delightful' appearance. She loves his place and name and all the
power and leisure of the life he can give her. She loves the world--in him; and in that I mean
and repeat that she is a creature of the senses. And if, for this, you think me arrogant and
heartless, you do not trouble in one whit my vision of myself, but you do, forever, mar my
vision of you."

They stood face to face in the soft sweet air under an arch of wistaria; it seemed a place
to plight a troth, not to break one; but Jack knew that, if he would, he could not have kept
the truth from her. It held him, looked from him; he was, at last, inevitably, to speak it.

"Imogen," he said, "I don't want to talk to you about your mother; I don't want to defend her
to you; I'm past that. I'll say nothing of your summing up of her character,--it's grotesque,
it's piteous, such assurance! But I do tell you straight what I've come to feel of you--that
you are a cold-blooded, self-righteous, self-centered girl. And I'll say more: I think that
your bringing-up, the artificiality, the complacent theory of it, is your best excuse; and
I think that you'll never find any one so generous and so understanding of you as your mother.
If this mars me in your eyes, I can't help it."

For a moment, in her deep anger,--horror running through it, too, as though the very bottom
had dropped out of things and she saw emptiness beneath her,--she thought that she would tell
him to leave her there, forever. But Imogen's intelligence was at times a fairly efficacious
substitute for deeper promptings; and humiliation, instead of enwrapping her mind in a flare
of passionate vanity, seemed, when such intellectual apprehension accompanied it, to clarify,
to steady her thoughts. She saw, now, in the sudden uncanny illumination, that in all her vehemence
of this afternoon there had been something fictitious. The sorrow, the resentment on her father's
account, she had, indeed, long felt; too long to feel keenly. Her disapproval of the second
marriage was already tinctured by a certain satisfaction; it would free her of a thorn in the
flesh, for such her mother's presence in her life had become, and it would justify forever
her sense of superiority. It was all the clearest cause for indignation that her mother had
given her, and, seeing it as such, she had longed to make Jack share her secure reprobation;
but she hadn't, really, been able to feel it as she saw it. It solved too many problems and
salved too many hurts. So now, standing there under the arch of wistaria, she saw through herself;
saw, at the very basis of her impulse, the dislocation that had made its demonstration dramatic
and unconvincing. Dreadful as the humiliation was, her lips growing parched, her throat hot
and dry with it, her intelligence saw its cause too clearly for her to resent it as she would
have resented one less justified. There was, perhaps, something to be said for Jack, disastrously
wrong though he was; and, with all her essential Tightness, there was, perhaps, something to
be said against her. She could not break, without further reflection, the threads that still
held them together.

So, at the moment of their deepest hostility, Jack was to have his sweetest impression of her.
She didn't order him away in tragic tones, as he almost expected; she didn't overwhelm him
with an icy torrent of reproach and argument. Instead, as she stood there against her halo
of black, the long regard of her white face fixed on him, her eyes suddenly filled with tears.
She didn't acquiesce for a moment, or, for a moment, imply him anything but miserably, pitiably
wrong; but in a voice from which every trace of anger had faded she said: "Oh Jack, how you
hurt me!"

The shock of his surprise was so great that his cheeks flamed as though she had struck him.
Answering tears sprang to his eyes. He stammered, could not speak at first, then got out: "Forgive
me. I'd no business to say it. It's lovely of you, Imogen, not just to send me off."

She felt her triumph, her half-triumph, at once. "Why, Jack, if you think it, why should I
forgive you for saying what, to you, seems the truth? You have forgotten me, Jack, almost altogether;
but don't forget that truth is the thing that I care most for. If you must think these things
of me--and not only of me, of a dearer self, for I understand all that you meant--I must accept
the sorrow and pain of it. When we care for people we must accept suffering because of them.
Perhaps, in time, you may come to see differently."

He knew, though she made him feel so abashed, that he could take back none of the "things"
he thought; but as she had smiled faintly at him he answered with a wavering smile, putting
out his hand to hers and holding it while he said: "Shall we agree, then, to say nothing more
about it! To be as good friends--as the truth will let us?"

He had never hurt her as at that moment of gentleness, compunction, and inflexibility, and
thought, for a moment, was obscured by a rush of bitter pain that could almost have cast her
upon his breast, weeping and suppliant for all that his words shut the door on--perhaps forever.

But such impulses were swiftly mastered in poor Imogen. Gravely pressing his hand, she accepted
the cutting compact, and, over her breathless sense of loss, held firm to the spiritual advantage
of magnanimity and courage. He judged himself, not her, in letting her go, if he was really
letting her go; and she must see him wander away into the darkness, alone, leaving her alone.
It was tragic; it was nearly unendurable; but this was one of life's hard lessons; her father
had so often told her that they must be unflinchingly faced, unflinchingly conquered. So she
triumphed over the weak crying out of human need.

