   "   11th-- By train from Calonne Ricouart via Amiens to
   "   12th     Corbie and marched to La Houssoye for training.

   "   18th   Marched to Bonnay and by 'bus to Poeuilly.

   "   20th--
   "   25th   In line about Pontru and Pontruet.

   "   26th   Moved back to bivouacs near Vendelles.

   "   29th   Battle of Bellenglise.

   "   30th--
  Oct.  2nd   In dug-outs near Lehaucourt and Magny-la-Fosse.

   "    3rd   Battle of Ramicourt.

   "    5th--
   "    7th   In line at Sequehart.

   "    8th   Resting at Lehaucourt.

   "    9th-- Moved via Levergies and Mericourt to Jonnecourt
   "   12th     Farm, near Bohain.

   "   17th   Battle of Regnicourt.--The Last Fight.

   "   18th   Moved back to Fresnoy-le-Grand for training.

   "   30th   Marched to Bohain.

  Nov.  3rd--
   "    4th   Marched via Escaufort to Catillon.

   "    5th   Crossed Sambre-Oise Canal and advanced to
                Mezières.

   "    6th   Occupied Prisches and Cartignies.

   "    7th--
   "    9th   At Cartignies.

   "   10th   Marched from Cartignies to Boulogne-sur-Helpe.

   "   11th   Armistice.

   "   14th   Marched to Landrecies.

   "   15th--
  1919        Clearing battlefield in Landrecies area.
  Jan   2nd     Demobilisation begun.

   "    3rd   Marched from Landrecies to Prisches and continued
                clearing battlefield.

  Feb. 19th-- Marched via Bazuel to Bethencourt, near Candry,
   "   20th     for completion of Demobilisation.

  June 23rd   Return of Cadre and Colours to Headquarters at
                Newark.

CHAPTER I

ENGLAND

  August 4th, 1914.                        February 25th, 1915.

When the 8th Sherwood Foresters concentrated at Hunmanby, at the end of July, 1914, for their
usual annual training, the International horizon was clouded with the diplomatic conversations
which had followed the murder of the Archduke Francis Ferdinand of Austria by Servians at Sarajevo.
Many hoped, no doubt, that the experience of the Morocco incident of 1905 and the Agadir incident
of 1911, would again be repeated and that once more the clouds of a world war would be dissipated,
but when we reflect upon this period of the world's history it is easy now to see that war
with Germany, sooner or later, was inevitable.

The atmosphere was so charged with electricity that it was impossible to settle down to the
normal routine of training, and there was little surprise when on August 3rd, Bank Holiday,
Germany declared war on France, and when on the following day, August 4th, Great Britain herself,
following upon the violation of the neutrality of Belgium, joined forces with Russia and France.

Territorial Camps were at once broken up and all ranks ordered home, with instructions to hold
themselves in readiness for any emergency.

The Royal Proclamation for the embodiment of the 8th Battalion Sherwood Foresters (Notts. and
Derby Regiment) was issued at 6.45 p.m. on Tuesday, August 4th, and notified to all units in
the briefest possible telegram--"Mobilise." During Wednesday and Thursday, August 5th and 6th,
all Companies were endeavouring to purchase locally and issue to every man, underclothing and
necessaries according to scale. This was a big undertaking, as the scheme for earmarking such
goods in the case of embodiment had not been completed, and there was, therefore, some delay
in obtaining all requirements. The strength of the Battalion on mobilisation was 29 officers
and 852 other ranks.

On Friday, August 7th, the Battalion concentrated at Newark, under the Command of Lieut.-Col.
C. J. Huskinson, T.D., with Major G. H. Fowler second in Command, and Capt. E. N. T. Collin,
Adjutant, Companies and their Officers at this time being as follows:--

  A Company--Retford.--Lieut. W. R. Smith, 2nd Lieuts.
                   L. Rose and E. C. A. James.

  B     "    Newark.--Capt. L. C. B. Appleby, Lieuts.
                   C. Davenport and A. H. Quibell.

  C     "    Sutton-in-Ashfield.--Lieut. M. C. Martyn,
                   2nd Lieuts. H. G. Wright and R. H. Piggford.

  D     "    Mansfield.--Capt. A. C. Clarke, 2nd Lieut. J. W. Turner.

  E     "    Carlton.--Lieut. F. G. Cursham, 2nd Lieut. H. Kirby.

  F     "    Arnold.--2nd Lieuts. G. Clarke and A. F. O. Dobson.

  G     "    Worksop.--Capt. E. W. E. Tylden-Wright, Lieut. W. H. Allen.

  H     "    Southwell.--Capt. J. P. Becher, Lieut. J. K. Lane,
                   2nd Lieut. H. B. S. Handford.

Lieut. A. L. Ashwell was Machine-Gun Officer; Capt. F. W. Johnson, and Surgeon-Capt. H. Stallard,
Medical Officers, and Rev. J. P. Hales, Chaplain; Major W. N. Sarll was Quarter-Master, but,
being medically unfit, at once handed over his duties to Capt. R. F. B. Hodgkinson, who joined
from the Territorial Force Reserve. Capt. R. J. Wordsworth mobilised with Brigade Headquarters.

The Battalion was billeted for the most part in Schools: B Company were detailed for various
duties in the town, and H Company found guards on bridges and other points on the Great Northern
Railway, the most important being the Tubular Bridge. Nothing of interest happened except that
a too keen sentry one night loosed off at some suspicious looking persons, who turned out to
be innocent platelayers returning home from work. Fortunately there were no casualties.

On Monday, August 10th, at 9.30 a.m., we paraded in the Market Place ready to begin our move
to concentration areas. The Mayor (Mr. J. C. Kew) and Corporation were present, accompanied
by Canon Hindley, Vicar of Newark, and other Clergy, and there was a dense crowd of onlookers.
After an address by the Mayor, who wished us God speed, and a short service, we marched off
via the Fosse Way to Radcliffe-on-Trent, leaving behind H Company under Capt. Becher, to guard
the railway.

For the first time in its history the Battalion had complete First Line and Train Transport
with it, this being under the command of Lieut. Davenport, who had been appointed Transport
Officer. The vehicles were not exactly regulation pattern, but little fault could be found
with the horses, all of which had been purchased locally. Floats from Warwick and Richardson's
and Hole's formed the majority of the Small Arm Ammunition and tool carts, whilst Dickens's
Mineral Water drays and Davy's Brewery drays made fairly good General Service wagons, when
fitted with light wooden sides. A furniture van full of blankets, two Corporation water carts,
and a bread cart with a large red cross on each side, completed the collection. We feel sure
that few Regimental Transports can have looked more like a circus than did ours as we left Newark.

The march of 14 miles to Radcliffe-on-Trent was completed about 4 p.m., and after a good night's
rest we left early on August 11th, and proceeding via Nottingham, arrived at Derby at 6.30
p.m., after a 23 mile march. This was a very severe test for all, as few were really "hard"
enough at that time for such a long trek. Route marches were accordingly carried out, on each
of the three extremely hot days spent at Derby, as the main part of our programme.

Whilst at Derby the main subject of discussion was that of Imperial Service for Territorial
units. So far as we were concerned a considerable number of officers and men had already volunteered.
There were many others who had not actually done so, but there was no doubt as to what their
answer would be. Of the remainder many were practically disqualified from serving abroad by
reason of age, unfitness, family and business ties, and other reasons, and for them, in the
light of the little we knew then, the decision was most difficult, and the need for it we hardly
thought fair. We continually see a light-blue bonnet and flowers surrounding a sallow countenance,
or a pink opposed to one of a glowing red; a pale complexion associated with a canary or lemon
yellow, or one of delicate red and white rendered almost colourless by the vicinity of deep
red. Now, if the lady with the sallow complexion had worn a transparent white bonnet; or if
the lady with the glowing red complexion had lowered it by means of a bonnet of a deeper red
colour; if the pale lady had improved the cadaverous hue of her countenance by surrounding
it with pale-green, which, by contrast, would have suffused it with
a delicate pink hue; or had the face

'Whose red and white, Nature's
own sweet and cunning hand laid on,'

been arrayed in a light-blue,
or light-green, or in a transparent white bonnet, with blue or pink
flowers on the inside--how different, and how much more agreeable,
would have been the impression on the spectator!

How frequently, again, do we see the dimensions of a tall and embonpoint figure magnified to almost
Brobdignagian proportions by a white dress, or a small woman reduced
to Lilliputian size by a black dress!

Now, as the optical effect of white is to enlarge objects, and that of black to diminish them,
if the large woman had been dressed in black, and the small woman in white, the apparent size
of each would have approached the ordinary stature, and the former would not have appeared a giantess,
or the latter a dwarf.--Mrs Merrifield in Art-Journal.
 We cannot say that we regarded this as the most pleasant of our experiences, as our
billets were not of the best either for Officers, who were mostly crowded into a few cottages,
and took turns at bathing in small tin baths in the sculleries, or men who were also crowded
in somewhat unwholesome schools, while our menu consisted monotonously of bully beef and pickle,
and army biscuit and cheese.

Better things fortunately were in store, for on August 21st, we moved on a few miles to Harpenden,
where we were destined to stay for three months, and where we received on all sides the greatest
possible hospitality. We are sure that all who were billeted at Harpenden will look back with
the greatest pleasure to the time spent in that delightful district. The men for the most part
were billeted in small houses, three or four together, and with the more than ample rations
and billeting allowances then in force, both men and billet owners were exceedingly well off.

Here we had also the 5th, 6th and 7th Sherwood Foresters, which, with ourselves, formed the
Notts, and Derby Infantry Brigade, under the Command of Brigadier-General C. T. Shipley, who
had Major E. M. Morris as Brigade Major, and Capt. R. J. Wordsworth as Staff Captain. The Stafford
and Lincoln and Leicester Infantry Brigades completed the North Midland Division, which was
commanded by Major-General The Hon. E. J. Montagu Stuart-Wortley.

Fortunately the weather for some time was splendid, and the Battalion soon began to shew the
result of constant and regular drill, and the turnout and smartness improved rapidly. Training
comprised almost every possible form that could be required to make both officers and men efficient,
and went so far as to include the detailing of Sergt.-Instructor Mounteney to carry out the
by no means easy task of trying to turn Officers into swordsmen. It is no disparagement of
his efforts to congratulate ourselves that we never had to put our lessons to the test of stern
reality. "Infantry Training" and "Field Service Regulations" were studied and more or less
followed out in practice in all we did. Most of our drill, musketry instruction, bayonet fighting,
physical exercises, and outpost drill were carried out on the splendid Common at Harpenden,
but our training area extended to most of the surrounding parks and farms, where the bulk of
our more advanced work in attack practice and tactical exercises was carried out. Perhaps some
of the best remembered places are "High Firs," where we first spent a night in bivouacs, Sandridge,
where there was a small range, Rothamstead Park, Redbourn, Ayre's End, Hammond's End Farm,
Annable's Farm, Mackery End, Thrale's End Farm, where barbed wire entanglements were put up,
the like of which we never saw in France or anywhere else, and Cold Harbour. At Sundon, not
far from Dunstable, we dug and occupied our first real trench system, which after a preliminary
skirmish at night, when rockets were used to guide the attacking troops, had to withstand a
heavy dawn attack by the Lincoln and Leicester Brigade.

Classification practices were fired at Wardown and Galley Hill ranges, near Luton, on thoroughly
wet and disagreeable days, with ammunition not intended for the rifle we were using, and altogether
under such adverse conditions, that good scores were impossible.

In addition to Brigade and Divisional schemes in the neighbourhood of Harpenden we had big
shows on two days at Kinsworth, near Dunstable. Of our indoor classes, probably the most entertaining
were the French lessons given after mess sometimes by a kind friend from the Y.M.C.A.; he did
his best, but we fear that it was not quite the right time of day to find a class of Officers
in a mood for imbibing instruction. 

"Three cheers for Romeo Augustus!"

The cheers were given with a will.

But mother caught her little son in her arms. "He's been walking in his sleep," she cried, "and
it all comes from eating plum-cake for tea."

But the clock knew
better. So did the clock-moon. It wagged its head at Romeo Augustus.
"Brave boy! brave boy!"

And Romeo Augustus nodded back. "Good-night,
old fellow!"

He could say that now with the rest. He was not afraid
of the clock any longer.

]

YOUNG PEOPLE AT CHAUTAUQUA. Subalterns who joined
during these early days included 2nd Lieuts. W. H. Hollins, J. V. Edge, A. Hacking, E. M. Hacking,
W. N. Wright, J. R. Eddison, B. W. Vann, J. M. Gray. J. S. C. Oates, R. E. Hemingway, A. P.
F. Hamilton, and W. C. C. Weetman. Hamilton soon left us to join the Divisional Cyclists and
afterwards served with the Tank Corps, winning the M.C. In other ranks there were also changes:
Sergt.-Instructors Hancock, Holmes and Walker went to other units, a number of men went to
Dunstable, and a good many were discharged medically unfit, but our numbers were constantly
being swelled by the arrival of recruits who kept coming in batches at frequent intervals from
the Depôt, and made up our strength practically to establishment.

Lieut.-Col. G. S. Foljambe, who had joined from the Territorial Force Reserve, was in charge
at the Depôt, and later commanded for some time the 3rd Line, with the unenviable task of getting
together and training in an extraordinarily short space of time, personnel to replenish the
1st and 2nd Lines. Many young Officers and others who passed through his hands in those days
look back with pleasure and affection to the happy times spent under his kindly care at Newark
and Belton Park.

Recreations in these early days were run on the usual lines. Padre Hales had a reading room
and organised Battalion Concerts from time to time, at which much local talent was displayed,
but with everyone living in houses organised entertainment was not so necessary as we later
found it to be in isolated camps, or at out-of-the-way villages in France.

We were inspected three times during this period; once at Harpenden by Lieut.-General Sir Ian
Hamilton, commanding the Central Force, again on September 29th, by Lord Kitchener in Luton
Hoo Park, when we thought we made a very creditable display, and lastly, on October 6th, after
we had carried out an attack scheme ending up on the Sandridge Rifle Range, when the Battalion
had the honour of marching past Lord Roberts.

The air, of course, was full of rumours. As early as September 1st, we were told that we should
be off to France in a month: later the date was fixed for October 30th, and then November 7th,
Bordeaux being mentioned as the elusive objective. On this last occasion it seemed so certain
that we were going that a farewell sermon was preached, which turned out to be decidedly premature.
We heard with every conceivable detail the delicious stories of the thousands of Russians who
kept pouring through Nottingham, and like others we had the usual excitements of spy scares,
all of which were very entertaining, and one at least highly dangerous, when one of our chases
took some of us over the railway embankment armed with loaded revolvers.

Whatever the possibilities of our going out early may have been, one step was taken which could
have had only that object in view, viz. inoculation against typhoid. We can only hope that
the Medical Officers who operated on us got more fun out of the operation than we did.

Marching orders came eventually, and as ever, when least expected. Late on Sunday evening,
November 15th, we were told to be ready to move at an hour's notice. This was presumed to be
due to a feared raid and landing on the East Coast--at any rate one hopes there was some equally
good reason for it, for quite a number of Officers and men had been allowed to go on week-end
leave, and had to be recalled by telegram, whilst the following day was to have been a holiday.

We shall not easily forget that night--the energy we expended in packing valises, brows sweating,
tempers bad, language beyond description,--all trying the impossible feat of making the wonderful
collection of kit we had got together on the advice of one friend or another keep within the
allotted allowance of 35lbs.

Apart from our own individual troubles, we had the additional enormous task set of issuing
new equipment to everybody. The 1908 bandolier pattern had been withdrawn, and new leather
equipment (pattern 1914) had arrived on the previous Friday and Saturday, and the Quarter-Master's
staff had been busy marking it and getting it ready for issuing. This all had to be issued
during the Sunday night, and was carried round to billets in blankets. The language of something
like 900 men all trying to put together an entirely new set of equipment, the like of which
they had never seen, may well be imagined. We were the first Battalion to be issued with this
equipment, which on the next day's march proved very unsatisfactory, many buckles and straps
pulling right out of the webbing of the packs and haversacks. We were glad when a month later
it was all withdrawn, and we were issued with the much more popular and lasting web equipment.

Eventually the Battalion paraded at 9 a.m. on November 16th, one hour late, and in consequence
instead of leading the Brigade we had to march in rear. We got to Harlow, a distance of something
like 26 miles, about 8 p.m. This was a very trying march, and as many men had only been issued
with new boots during the night, it was not surprising that several fell out. On this march
we first realised what a difficult and technical job "supply" can be. The supply and baggage
wagons appear to have been hopelessly overloaded, and in consequence both rations and blankets
failed to reach us that night. It was largely owing to the extreme kindness and hospitality
of the inhabitants of the delightful little village of Harlow, amongst whom was the evergreen
veteran Sir Evelyn Wood, V.C., that we were fed and breakfasted and able to continue the march
the following day, 14 miles to Dunmow. This proved more trying than the previous day, and the
Medical Officer and stretcher-bearers had a busy time attending to those who fell out. 

It is true, that this retirement will effectually withdraw them from their magic circle of friends
and luxuries; but let us for a moment compare the two steps, migration and emigration, and ask
ourselves if the experiment above mentioned be not worth the trial. In the one, we give up,
probably for life, our country, our friends, and generally a part of our family, with all the
comforts of a state of law and civilisation; we enter upon a certain and constant life of labour,
after a long, tedious voyage; and, if in mature age, bear about with us a never-ceasing yearning
for home, which retains its place in our hearts with all the heightened colours with which
memory invests it.

In order to prepare for any possible German landing on the Essex coast orders had been issued
for a series of trenches to be dug to form defensive lines for the protection of London, and
we were at once set on to this work, which was pushed on as rapidly as possible, systems of
trenches, redoubts, gun positions, and other defensive works being put in hand. Our work was
mainly at Panfield, Marks Farm and Black Notley. It was not an ideal season for trench digging,
especially in the clay of Essex, which was the "genuine" article, and we were glad when the
bulk of it was finished by Christmas. This work was carried out under Royal Engineers' supervision
and was in some ways instructive, although we thought that the principles we had been taught
in the Military Manuals were frequently violated by the siting of trenches along the sides
of prominent hedgerows. Nevertheless, what we did was more after the nature of what we were
to meet in France, and therefore of considerable practical value. That our work was satisfactory
was testified to by the insertion in Central Force Orders of January 23rd, 1915, of the General
Officer Commanding-in-Chief's keen appreciation of the soldierly spirit and enthusiasm shewn
for the work by all ranks. All the same, we have no regrets that it was never necessary to
occupy the trenches for actual warfare.

Owing to another scare Christmas leave was cancelled. Scarborough had been bombarded on December
22nd, and there was apparently a bit of a "breeze." According to one writer this was due to
a little lack of liaison between our Naval and Military authorities. But we do not, however, suggest
migration as a substitute for genteel emigration--although we suspect it would in many cases prove
so--but merely as a step towards it--a school of trial, or training,
or both.

COLOURS IN LADIES' DRESS. This concentration came to the knowledge of our
military spies, who, however were not told of the cause, and their report appears to have caused
our War Office to think that an invasion of England was contemplated. We were not, however,
by any means dull at Christmas. On December 24th, we beat the 6th Battalion 2--1 in the first
round of the Divisional Football competition, Vann being skipper, and in the evening the Warrant
Officers and N.C.O.'s had a dance at Braintree Corn Exchange. On Christmas Day there was Church
Parade at Braintree, when the Bishop of Derby preached. Later, dinners were issued on a sumptuous
scale, and in the evening the Officers were entertained at the White Hart by the Colonel and
Major Fowler.

In a later round of the Divisional Cup Competition, we beat the Divisional Mechanical Transport
Column 3--0, and got into the semi-final, when, however, we were badly beaten by the 4th Leicesters
at Bishop's Stortford, by 3 goals to nil. In a Brigade paper chase which was held on December
26th, Pvte. Allen of E Company came in first.

On December 28th, we returned to Luton by train to carry out final firing practices at the
Wardown and Galley Hill Ranges, and field firing practice at Dunstable in appalling weather,
when frost, snow and rain made accurate shooting perfectly impossible, and we were glad indeed
to get back to Bocking on January 6th, 1915.

