THE SOUL OF MAN

The chief advantage that would result from the establishment of Socialism is, undoubtedly,
the fact that Socialism would relieve us from that sordid necessity of living for others which,
in the present condition of things, presses so hardly upon almost everybody.  In fact, scarcely
anyone at all escapes.

Now and then, in the course of the century, a great man of science, like Darwin; a great poet,
like Keats; a fine critical spirit, like M. Renan; a supreme artist, like Flaubert, has been
able to isolate himself, to keep himself out of reach of the clamorous claims of others, to
stand 'under the shelter of the wall,' as Plato puts it, and so to realise the perfection of
what was in him, to his own incomparable gain, and to the incomparable and lasting gain of
the whole world.  These, however, are exceptions.  The majority of people spoil their lives
by an unhealthy and exaggerated altruism-- are forced, indeed, so to spoil them.  They find
themselves surrounded by hideous poverty, by hideous ugliness, by hideous starvation.  It is
inevitable that they should be strongly moved by all this.  The emotions of man are stirred
more quickly than man's intelligence; and, as I pointed out some time ago in an article on
the function of criticism, it is much more easy to have sympathy with suffering than it is
to have sympathy with thought. Accordingly, with admirable, though misdirected intentions,
they very seriously and very sentimentally set themselves to the task of remedying the evils
that they see.  But their remedies do not cure the disease:  they merely prolong it.  Indeed,
their remedies are part of the disease.

They try to solve the problem of poverty, for instance, by keeping the poor alive; or, in the
case of a very advanced school, by amusing the poor.

But this is not a solution:  it is an aggravation of the difficulty.  The proper aim is to
try and reconstruct society on such a basis that poverty will be impossible.  And the altruistic
virtues have really prevented the carrying out of this aim.  Just as the worst slave-owners
were those who were kind to their slaves, and so prevented the horror of the system being realised
by those who suffered from it, and understood by those who contemplated it, so, in the present
state of things in England, the people who do most harm are the people who try to do most good;
and at last we have had the spectacle of men who have really studied the problem and know the
life--educated men who live in the East End--coming forward and imploring the community to
restrain its altruistic impulses of charity, benevolence, and the like.  They do so on the
ground that such charity degrades and demoralises.  They are perfectly right.  Charity creates
a multitude of sins.

There is also this to be said.  It is immoral to use private property in order to alleviate
the horrible evils that result from the institution of private property.  It is both immoral
and unfair.

Under Socialism all this will, of course, be altered.  There will be no people living in fetid
dens and fetid rags, and bringing up unhealthy, hunger-pinched children in the midst of impossible
and absolutely repulsive surroundings.  The security of society will not depend, as it does
now, on the state of the weather.  If a frost comes we shall not have a hundred thousand men
out of work, tramping about the streets in a state of disgusting misery, or whining to their
neighbours for alms, or crowding round the doors of loathsome shelters to try and secure a
hunch of bread and a night's unclean lodging.  Each member of the society will share in the
general prosperity and happiness of the society, and if a frost comes no one will practically
be anything the worse.

Upon the other hand, Socialism itself will be of value simply because it will lead to Individualism.
But for the full development of Life to its highest mode of perfection, something more is needed.
What is needed is Individualism.  If the Socialism is Authoritarian; if there are Governments
armed with economic power as they are now with political power; if, in a word, we are to have
Industrial Tyrannies, then the last state of man will be worse than the first.  At present,
in consequence of the existence of private property, a great many people are enabled to develop
a certain very limited amount of Individualism.  They are either under no necessity to work
for their living, or are enabled to choose the sphere of activity that is really congenial
to them, and gives them pleasure.  These are the poets, the philosophers, the men of science,
the men of culture--in a word, the real men, the men who have realised themselves, and in whom
all Humanity gains a partial realisation.  Upon the other hand, there are a great many people
who, having no private property of their own, and being always on the brink of sheer starvation,
are compelled to do the work of beasts of burden, to do work that is quite uncongenial to them,
and to which they are forced by the peremptory, unreasonable, degrading Tyranny of want.  These
are the poor, and amongst them there is no grace of manner, or charm of speech, or civilisation,
or culture, or refinement in pleasures, or joy of life.  From their collective force Humanity
gains much in material prosperity.  But it is only the material result that it gains, and the
man who is poor is in himself absolutely of no importance.  He is merely the infinitesimal
atom of a force that, so far from regarding him, crushes him:  indeed, prefers him crushed,
as in that case he is far more obedient.

Of course, it might be said that the Individualism generated under conditions of private property
is not always, or even as a rule, of a fine or wonderful type, and that the poor, if they have
not culture and charm, have still many virtues.  Both these statements would be quite true.
The possession of private property is very often extremely demoralising, and that is, of course,
one of the reasons why Socialism wants to get rid of the institution.  In fact, property is
really a nuisance.  Some years ago people went about the country saying that property has duties.
They said it so often and so tediously that, at last, the Church has begun to say it.  One
hears it now from every pulpit.  It is perfectly true. Property not merely has duties, but
has so many duties that its possession to any large extent is a bore.  It involves endless
claims upon one, endless attention to business, endless bother.  If property had simply pleasures,
we could stand it; but its duties make it unbearable.  In the interest of the rich we must
get rid of it.  The virtues of the poor may be readily admitted, and are much to be regretted.
We are often told that the poor are grateful for charity.  Some of them are, no doubt, but
the best amongst the poor are never grateful.  They are ungrateful, discontented, disobedient,
and rebellious.  They are quite right to be so. Charity they feel to be a ridiculously inadequate
mode of partial restitution, or a sentimental dole, usually accompanied by some impertinent
attempt on the part of the sentimentalist to tyrannise over their private lives.  Why should
they be grateful for the crumbs that fall from the rich man's table?  They should be seated
at the board, and are beginning to know it.  As for being discontented, a man who would not
be discontented with such surroundings and such a low mode of life would be a perfect brute.
Disobedience, in the eyes of anyone who has read history, is man's original virtue.  It is
through disobedience that progress has been made, through disobedience and through rebellion.
Sometimes the poor are praised for being thrifty.  But to recommend thrift to the poor is both
grotesque and insulting.  It is like advising a man who is starving to eat less.  For a town
or country labourer to practise thrift would be absolutely immoral.  Man should not be ready
to show that he can live like a badly-fed animal.  He should decline to live like that, and
should either steal or go on the rates, which is considered by many to be a form of stealing.
As for begging, it is safer to beg than to take, but it is finer to take than to beg.  No:
a poor man who is ungrateful, unthrifty, discontented, and rebellious, is probably a real personality,
and has much in him.  He is at any rate a healthy protest.  As for the virtuous poor, one can
pity them, of course, but one cannot possibly admire them.  They have made private terms with
the enemy, and sold their birthright for very bad pottage.  They must also be extraordinarily
stupid.  I can quite understand a man accepting laws that protect private property, and admit
of its accumulation, as long as he himself is able under those conditions to realise some form
of beautiful and intellectual life.  But it is almost incredible to me how a man whose life
is marred and made hideous by such laws can possibly acquiesce in their continuance.

However, the explanation is not really difficult to find.  It is simply this.  Misery and poverty
are so absolutely degrading, and exercise such a paralysing effect over the nature of men,
that no class is ever really conscious of its own suffering.  They have to be told of it by
other people, and they often entirely disbelieve them.  That is the reason why agitators are
so absolutely necessary.  Without them, in our incomplete state, there would be no advance
towards civilisation.  Slavery was put down in America, not in consequence of any action on
the part of the slaves, or even any express desire on their part that they should be free.
It was put down entirely through the grossly illegal conduct of certain agitators in Boston
and elsewhere, who were not slaves themselves, nor owners of slaves, nor had anything to do
with the question really.  It was, undoubtedly, the Abolitionists who set the torch alight,
who began the whole thing.  And it is curious to note that from the slaves themselves they
received, not merely very little assistance, but hardly any sympathy even; and when at the
close of the war the slaves found themselves free, found themselves indeed so absolutely free
that they were free to starve, many of them bitterly regretted the new state of things.  To
the thinker, the most tragic fact in the whole of the French Revolution is not that Marie Antoinette
was killed for being a queen, but that the starved peasant of the Vendee voluntarily went out
to die for the hideous cause of feudalism.

It is clear, then, that no Authoritarian Socialism will do.  For while under the present system
a very large number of people can lead lives of a certain amount of freedom and expression
and happiness, under an industrial-barrack system, or a system of economic tyranny, nobody
would be able to have any such freedom at all.  It is to be regretted that a portion of our
community should be practically in slavery, but to propose to solve the problem by enslaving
the entire community is childish.  Every man must be left quite free to choose his own work.
No form of compulsion must be exercised over him.  If there is, his work will not be good for
him, will not be good in itself, and will not be good for others. And by work I simply mean
activity of any kind.

I hardly think that any Socialist, nowadays, would seriously propose that an inspector should
call every morning at each house to see that each citizen rose up and did manual labour for
eight hours.  Humanity has got beyond that stage, and reserves such a form of life for the
people whom, in a very arbitrary manner, it chooses to call criminals.  But I confess that
many of the socialistic views that I have come across seem to me to be tainted with ideas of
authority, if not of actual compulsion.  Of course, authority and compulsion are out of the
question.  All association must be quite voluntary.  It is only in voluntary associations that
man is fine.

But it may be asked how Individualism, which is now more or less dependent on the existence
of private property for its development, will benefit by the abolition of such private property.
The answer is very simple.  It is true that, under existing conditions, a few men who have
had private means of their own, such as Byron, Shelley, Browning, Victor Hugo, Baudelaire,
and others, have been able to realise their personality more or less completely.  Not one of
these men ever did a single day's work for hire.  They were relieved from poverty.  They had
an immense advantage.  The question is whether it would be for the good of Individualism that
such an advantage should be taken away.  Let us suppose that it is taken away.  What happens
then to Individualism?  How will it benefit?

It will benefit in this way.  Under the new conditions Individualism will be far freer, far
finer, and far more intensified than it is now.  I am not talking of the great imaginatively-realised
Individualism of such poets as I have mentioned, but of the great actual Individualism latent
and potential in mankind generally.  For the recognition of private property has really harmed
Individualism, and obscured it, by confusing a man with what he possesses.  It has led Individualism
entirely astray.  It has made gain not growth its aim.  So that man thought that the important
thing was to have, and did not know that the important thing is to be.  The true perfection
of man lies, not in what man has, but in what man is.

Private property has crushed true Individualism, and set up an Individualism that is false.
It has debarred one part of the community from being individual by starving them.  It has debarred
the other part of the community from being individual by putting them on the wrong road, and
encumbering them.  Indeed, so completely has man's personality been absorbed by his possessions
that the English law has always treated offences against a man's property with far more severity
than offences against his person, and property is still the test of complete citizenship. 
The industry necessary for the making money is also very demoralising. In a community like
ours, where property confers immense distinction, social position, honour, respect, titles,
and other pleasant things of the kind, man, being naturally ambitious, makes it his aim to
accumulate this property, and goes on wearily and tediously accumulating it long after he has
got far more than he wants, or can use, or enjoy, or perhaps even know of.  Man will kill himself
by overwork in order to secure property, and really, considering the enormous advantages that
property brings, one is hardly surprised.  One's regret is that society should be constructed
on such a basis that man has been forced into a groove in which he cannot freely develop what
is wonderful, and fascinating, and delightful in him--in which, in fact, he misses the true
pleasure and joy of living.  He is also, under existing conditions, very insecure.  An enormously
wealthy merchant may be-- often is--at every moment of his life at the mercy of things that
are not under his control.  If the wind blows an extra point or so, or the weather suddenly
changes, or some trivial thing happens, his ship may go down, his speculations may go wrong,
and he finds himself a poor man, with his social position quite gone.  Now, nothing should
be able to harm a man except himself.  Nothing should be able to rob a man at all.  What a
man really has, is what is in him.  What is outside of him should be a matter of no importance.

With the abolition of private property, then, we shall have true, beautiful, healthy Individualism.
Nobody will waste his life in accumulating things, and the symbols for things.  One will live.
To live is the rarest thing in the world.  Most people exist, that is all.

It is a question whether we have ever seen the full expression of a personality, except on
the imaginative plane of art.  In action, we never have.  Caesar, says Mommsen, was the complete
and perfect man.  But how tragically insecure was Caesar!  Wherever there is a man who exercises
authority, there is a man who resists authority. Caesar was very perfect, but his perfection
travelled by too dangerous a road.  Marcus Aurelius was the perfect man, says Renan. Yes; the
great emperor was a perfect man.  But how intolerable were the endless claims upon him!  He
staggered under the burden of the empire.  He was conscious how inadequate one man was to bear
the weight of that Titan and too vast orb.  What I mean by a perfect man is one who develops
under perfect conditions; one who is not wounded, or worried or maimed, or in danger.  Most
personalities have been obliged to be rebels.  Half their strength has been wasted in friction.
Byron's personality, for instance, was terribly wasted in its battle with the stupidity, and
hypocrisy, and Philistinism of the English.  Such battles do not always intensify strength:
they often exaggerate weakness.  Byron was never able to give us what he might have given us.
Shelley escaped better.  Like Byron, he got out of England as soon as possible. But he was
not so well known.  If the English had had any idea of what a great poet he really was, they
would have fallen on him with tooth and nail, and made his life as unbearable to him as they
possibly could.  But he was not a remarkable figure in society, and consequently he escaped,
to a certain degree.  Still, even in Shelley the note of rebellion is sometimes too strong.
The note of the perfect personality is not rebellion, but peace.

It will be a marvellous thing--the true personality of man--when we see it.  It will grow naturally
and simply, flowerlike, or as a tree grows.  It will not be at discord.  It will never argue
or dispute.  It will not prove things.  It will know everything.  And yet it will not busy
itself about knowledge.  It will have wisdom. Its value will not be measured by material things.
It will have nothing.  And yet it will have everything, and whatever one takes from it, it
will still have, so rich will it be.  It will not be always meddling with others, or asking
them to be like itself.  It will love them because they will be different.  And yet while it
will not meddle with others, it will help all, as a beautiful thing helps us, by being what
it is.  The personality of man will be very wonderful.  It will be as wonderful as the personality
of a child.

In its development it will be assisted by Christianity, if men desire that; but if men do not
desire that, it will develop none the less surely.  For it will not worry itself about the
past, nor care whether things happened or did not happen.  Nor will it admit any laws but its
own laws; nor any authority but its own authority. Yet it will love those who sought to intensify
it, and speak often of them.  And of these Christ was one.

'Know thyself' was written over the portal of the antique world. Over the portal of the new
world, 'Be thyself' shall be written. And the message of Christ to man was simply 'Be thyself.'
That is the secret of Christ.

When Jesus talks about the poor he simply means personalities, just as when he talks about
the rich he simply means people who have not developed their personalities.  Jesus moved in
a community that allowed the accumulation of private property just as ours does, and the gospel
that he preached was not that in such a community it is an advantage for a man to live on scanty,
unwholesome food, to wear ragged, unwholesome clothes, to sleep in horrid, unwholesome dwellings,
and a disadvantage for a man to live under healthy, pleasant, and decent conditions.  Such
a view would have been wrong there and then, and would, of course, be still more wrong now
and in England; for as man moves northward the material necessities of life become of more
vital importance, and our society is infinitely more complex, and displays far greater extremes
of luxury and pauperism than any society of the antique world.  What Jesus meant, was this.
He said to man, 'You have a wonderful personality. Develop it.  Be yourself.  Don't imagine
that your perfection lies in accumulating or possessing external things.  Your affection is
inside of you.  If only you could realise that, you would not want to be rich.  Ordinary riches
can be stolen from a man.  Real riches cannot.  In the treasury-house of your soul, there are
infinitely precious things, that may not be taken from you.  And so, try to so shape your life
that external things will not harm you.  And try also to get rid of personal property.  It
involves sordid preoccupation, endless industry, continual wrong.  Personal property hinders
Individualism at every step.'  It is to be noted that Jesus never says that impoverished people
are necessarily good, or wealthy people necessarily bad.  That would not have been true.  Wealthy
people are, as a class, better than impoverished people, more moral, more intellectual, more
well-behaved.  There is only one class in the community that thinks more about money than the
rich, and that is the poor.  The poor can think of nothing else.  That is the misery of being
poor.  What Jesus does say is that man reaches his perfection, not through what he has, not
even through what he does, but entirely through what he is.  And so the wealthy young man who
comes to Jesus is represented as a thoroughly good citizen, who has broken none of the laws
of his state, none of the commandments of his religion.  He is quite respectable, in the ordinary
sense of that extraordinary word.  Jesus says to him, 'You should give up private property.
It hinders you from realising your perfection.  It is a drag upon you.  It is a burden.  Your
personality does not need it.  It is within you, and not outside of you, that you will find
what you really are, and what you really want.'  To his own friends he says the same thing.
He tells them to be themselves, and not to be always worrying about other things. What do other
things matter?  Man is complete in himself.  When they go into the world, the world will disagree
with them.  That is inevitable.  The world hates Individualism.  But that is not to trouble
them.  They are to be calm and self-centred.  If a man takes their cloak, they are to give
him their coat, just to show that material things are of no importance.  If people abuse them,
they are not to answer back.  What does it signify?  The things people say of a man do not
alter a man.  He is what he is.  Public opinion is of no value whatsoever.  Even if people
employ actual violence, they are not to be violent in turn.  That would be to fall to the same
low level.  After all, even in prison, a man can be quite free.  His soul can be free.  His
personality can be untroubled.  He can be at peace.  And, above all things, they are not to
interfere with other people or judge them in any way. Personality is a very mysterious thing.
A man cannot always be estimated by what he does.  He may keep the law, and yet be worthless.
He may break the law, and yet be fine.  He may be bad, without ever doing anything bad.  He
may commit a sin against society, and yet realise through that sin his true perfection.

There was a woman who was taken in adultery.  We are not told the history of her love, but
that love must have been very great; for Jesus said that her sins were forgiven her, not because
she repented, but because her love was so intense and wonderful.  Later on, a short time before
his death, as he sat at a feast, the woman came in and poured costly perfumes on his hair.
His friends tried to interfere with her, and said that it was an extravagance, and that the
money that the perfume cost should have been expended on charitable relief of people in want,
or something of that kind. Jesus did not accept that view.  He pointed out that the material
needs of Man were great and very permanent, but that the spiritual needs of Man were greater
still, and that in one divine moment, and by selecting its own mode of expression, a personality
might make itself perfect.  The world worships the woman, even now, as a saint.

Yes; there are suggestive things in Individualism.  Individualism accepts this and makes it
fine.  It converts the abolition of legal restraint into a form of freedom that will help the
full development of personality, and make the love of man and woman more wonderful, more beautiful,
and more ennobling.  Jesus knew this.  He rejected the claims of family life, although they
existed in his day and community in a very marked form.  'Who is my mother?  Who are my brothers?'
he said, when he was told that they wished to speak to him.  When one of his followers asked
leave to go and bury his father, 'Let the dead bury the dead,' was his terrible answer.  He
would allow no claim whatsoever to be made on personality.

And so he who would lead a Christlike life is he who is perfectly and absolutely himself. 
He may be a great poet, or a great man of science; or a young student at a University, or one
who watches sheep upon a moor; or a maker of dramas, like Shakespeare, or a thinker about God,
like Spinoza; or a child who plays in a garden, or a fisherman who throws his net into the
sea.  It does not matter what he is, as long as he realises the perfection of the soul that
is within him.  All imitation in morals and in life is wrong. Through the streets of Jerusalem
at the present day crawls one who is mad and carries a wooden cross on his shoulders.  He is
a symbol of the lives that are marred by imitation.  Father Damien was Christlike when he went
out to live with the lepers, because in such service he realised fully what was best in him.
But he was not more Christlike than Wagner when he realised his soul in music; or than Shelley,
when he realised his soul in song.  There is no one type for man.  There are as many perfections
as there are imperfect men.  And while to the claims of charity a man may yield and yet be
free, to the claims of conformity no man may yield and remain free at all.

