It will probably occur to some to ask whether many or any of those who are "Queen's pleasure
men" (or women) are found to have been improperly acquitted when subjected to the careful and
prolonged medical scrutiny which a residence at Broadmoor allows of; whether, in short, mercy,
based on medical knowledge, has mistakenly interfered with the proper action of justice and
law? In this matter the doctors and the lawyers are frequently on opposite sides, and the former
often find it hard work to rescue an insane prisoner from the clutches of the law. On the other
hand, it may be admitted that, as regards some physicians at least, a juster view is sometimes
as necessary as it is on the part of the lawyers. When absurd reasons are given in the witness-box
for a prisoner's insanity--reasons which would equally establish the madness of many persons
in society whom no one regards as insane--it is not surprising that the judges are cautious
in admitting the plea of insanity on medical evidence. In seeking a reply to the above question,
it is satisfactory to find that if the evidence of medical experts tends to induce juries to
acquit on the ground of insanity those who are responsible agents and ought to be punished,
there have only been a few scattered cases admitted which were "doubtful"--whether at Bethlem,
when criminal lunatics were sent there, before Broadmoor existed, or at the latter, since it
was opened. It is also a satisfaction to know that cases of this kind have not been more frequent
of late than formerly; and this, although there has been in the present generation a marked
increase in the number acquitted on the ground of insanity. Thus from 1836 to 1848, the ratio
of the insane to the prisoners tried was only one in thirty-two; between 1848 and 1862 it was
one in seventeen; and between 1862 and 1874 as many as one in fourteen.[211] It is surely much
better that a man should occasionally escape the punishment he deserves, than that any should
be punished who labour under mental disease. To show the difficulty of arriving at a conclusion
as to the mental responsibility of persons charged with crime, I may mention the case of a
schoolmaster who, not many years ago, used his cane on a boy in a very savage manner, pursued
him under the table, and destroyed the sight of one eye. This man was sentenced to five years'
penal servitude. He was, of course, under the notice of the surgeon of the prison to which
he was sent, and was regarded by him as sane. The schoolmasters and pupil-teachers, however,
took the case up, and agitated for further examination into the state of the man's mind. Dr.
Orange was employed to examine him, and, thoroughly familiar with criminal lunatics, succeeded
in discovering unmistakable proofs of insanity. In fact, he was so poorly the morning of the
day he committed this assault, so uncomfortable in his head, and so irritable in mind, that
he sent word to the school to say that he was too ill to attend to his duties. It was a school
examination, however, and the authorities insisted upon his going. They therefore were mainly
to blame for the circumstance which followed. This man was saved from punishment by Dr. Orange's
representations, and subsequent observation confirmed the opinion he formed at the time, that
he was not only irritable and suspicious, but was labouring under a delusion. He was a dangerous
lunatic, in short, when he committed the offence.

In going through the wards I conversed with the superintendent on the main points of interest
in connection with the management of the institution, and on some of the characteristics presented
by those who are admitted.

I remarked on the low mortality which I knew obtained there. "Ah," said the doctor, laughing,
"that goes against us, rather than for us. We are blamed for keeping the patients too well!"
Since the opening of the asylum, the yearly average of death has been at the rate of 2.97 per
cent. of the number resident. As to diet it is no doubt difficult to understand why this class
should fare better, as they seem to do, than ordinary patients in the county asylums. In one
particular, indeed, a change in the direction of economy has been made, and a very reasonable
change it is. It is connected with an important question which arises, How far can the system
of rewards for work be beneficially carried out?

It appears that until some ten years ago, the main reward for useful work was a luncheon of
bread-and-cheese and beer in the forenoon, with another, though smaller, allowance of beer
in the afternoon. Both these allowances of beer (which were additional to the dinner supply)
were discontinued in 1875, and in lieu of them a small portion of the money value of the work
done was credited to the workers, with permission to spend it on any trifling luxury they might
desire. It was found that the executed value of the work in the shoemakers' shop in 1876 was
more than that done in 1873 (the year before this experiment was tried), by 160 per cent.,
whilst in the tailors' shop the increase was 120 per cent.; corresponding results being obtained
in other departments. Hence, in spite of the gratuities to the patients so employed, the yearly
cost has been considerably reduced. During one year the saving in beer alone amounted to £165,
whilst the saving in paid labour was very much greater.

Financial considerations must be a very important practical point in the existence of Broadmoor.
The State pays for it; an annual grant from the House of Commons must be asked for, and the
Government must be prepared to show that the amount is not unreasonable. Now the weekly cost
of the inmates is eighteen shillings each. That of the inmates of our county asylums averages
about half a guinea. It may therefore not unreasonably be asked, Why is this? What have the
criminal lunatics done to deserve so much more money being lavished upon them? The chief reason
is, that a greater proportion of attendants must be provided for this class, and that is costly.
At Broadmoor the proportion of attendants to patients is one in five; in asylums generally,
much less liberal, say one in eleven; besides which, they are paid better (as they ought to
be), at Broadmoor. Ten years ago the cost per head was as high as twenty-three shillings a week.

A considerable number of the inmates are, as has been intimated, usefully employed. Thus, during
the year, 167 men and women were occupied in one way or other, in addition to reading and writing,
music, etc. Eighty-six were employed in making and repairing clothing for patients, and bed
and house linen for patients and attendants; 144 in cleaning the wards; 40 in the garden and
on the farm; 29 in the laundry; 26 in making or repairing uniform clothing, boots and shoes,
etc.; 17 in making and repairing furniture, mattresses, mats, carpets, etc. I went into one
room where there was a printing-press, and a printer handed me the printed programme of a concert
shortly to be held in the asylum. The total value of the labour of patients alone amounted,
in 1881, to £2835.

In the carrying out of a system of labour so beneficial to the patient, and so useful to the
institution, relaxation and amusement are not forgotten. The patients play at chess, draughts,
billiards, bagatelle, etc.; and out-of-door games comprise bowls, cricket, and croquet. There
is a library well supplied with papers and journals; and one patient was pointed out who himself
contributes to a magazine. There is a band which includes seventeen patients, as well as some
attendants, and enlivens the inmates twice in the course of the week.

This sounds very pleasant, but honesty requires us to give the other side of the picture, as
portrayed in the words of Mr. Burt, the chaplain; and perhaps nothing serves better to show
how much credit is due to the superintendent for the admirable management of an institution
containing such elements as these. He said (some years ago) that although he had laboured in
asylums and prisons for a long period, it had never fallen to his lot before to witness depravity
and unhappiness in such aggravated forms. "In other asylums, when the mind resumes anything
like healthy action, there is hope of discharge; in prisons, the period of detention, however
long, has some definite duration; but here the fear of relapse, and the terrible acts to which
relapse may lead, render the condition of release rarely attainable; for many the period of
detention is indefinite, and hope is almost excluded. In prison, whatever may be the depravity,
it is kept under some restraint by reason and by fear of consequences; but here there are patients
with passions depraved to the utmost, upon whom neither reason, nor shame, nor fear impose
any restraint."

One Sunday, about fifteen years ago, during the Communion, and when the chaplain was in the
middle of the Collect for the Queen, an event took place, the account of which I take from
his own description. A patient with a sudden yell rushed at Dr. Meyer (then the superintendent),
who was kneeling, surrounded by his family, close to the altar, and a deadly blow was struck
at his head with a large stone slung in a handkerchief. The stone inflicted a serious injury,
and the blow would have been fatal, if it had not been somewhat turned aside by the promptness
with which the arm of the patient was seized by an attendant. A scene of so dreadful a character
has very rarely been witnessed in a Christian church. Is it surprising that Mr. Burt cannot
look back upon this occurrence without horror, and that he has never felt able to say the particular
collect which was interrupted in so awful a manner?

Many are the moral lessons which might be enforced from a knowledge of the cases admitted at
Broadmoor, and their previous history. Among these the evil of gross ignorance might well be
illustrated by such an example as this. Six years ago a farm labourer was tried in Warwickshire,
for murdering a woman eighty years of age.

He believed in witches and laboured under the delusion that this poor old creature, with others
in the village, held him under the spell of witchcraft. Returning from his work one day, and
carrying a pitchfork in his hand, he saw this woman. He immediately ran at her, struck her
on the legs thrice, and then on the temple, till he knocked her down. From these injuries she
died. Well, it was found that he had the delusion that he was tormented by witches, to which
he attributed his bodily ailments, and was ever ready with Scripture quotations in favour of
witchcraft. His mind, apart from delusions, was weak. The jury acquitted him on the ground
of insanity, and he was admitted at Broadmoor in January, 1876.

One lesson there is which ought to be learnt from the history of many of the cases sent to
Broadmoor, and that is the extreme importance of not disregarding the early symptoms of insanity.
Had these been promptly recognized, and those who suffered from them been subjected to medical
care and treatment, the acts they committed, the suffering they caused, the odium they brought
upon themselves and their families, would alike have been prevented. The diffusion of a knowledge
of the first indications of this insidious disease, and of what it may culminate in, is the
only safeguard against the terrible acts which from time to time startle the community, and
which are found, when too late, to have been perpetrated by those who ought to have been under
medical restraint.

