The spirits of the Jacobite army were now high; their hopes were raised by the daily increase
of their party. Newcastle was their next object, and thither they prepared to march, having
first proclaimed the Chevalier,--Mr. Buxton taking upon himself the office of herald. Newcastle
was, however, on her defence: the city gates were closed against the troops, and they turned
towards Hexham, and thence marched to a moor near Dilstone Castle, and here they halted for
some days. This was a feint, as they intended, it is thought, to have surprised the town of
Newcastle. But the news they received from that place were far from encouraging. The gentry
in the neighbourhood had rallied for its defence; and Lord Scarborough, the lord-lieutenant
of the county, had entered the town with a body of men. Still there was a powerful High Church
party, who, as the Jacobites hoped, would declare for the Chevalier. It was from Newcastle
that Lord Derwentwater had been apprised, in the first instance, that there were messengers
sent to apprehend him. The insurgents therefore, continued near Hexham, where they seized on
all the horses and arms they could, read prayers in the churches for King James, and proclaimed
him in the market-place.

The Earl of Derwentwater had appointed his brother to the command of his troop, whilst Captain
Shaftoe was under Mr. Radcliffe. This, in some respects, was an unfortunate step: the young
and brave commander had never even seen an army before: he was inexperienced, and ignorant
of all military discipline: what he wanted in knowledge, he is said, however, to have made
up for by the influence he acquired over his men, and by the power he had of inciting them
to great exploits.[191]

Whilst the rebel forces lay at Hexham, they received the intelligence that Lord Kenmure, the
Earls of Nithisdale, of Carnwath, and Wintoun, had risen in Nithisdale, and had marched thence
to England to join the troops in Northumberland, and had even advanced as far as Rothbury.
On the nineteenth of October, Mr. Forster joined the Scottish army at Rothbury, and afterwards
marched with an increasing force to Kelso. Here prayers were read in the great kirk by Mr.
Buxton; "and I," relates Mr. Patten, "preached on these words, Deut. xxi. 17,--the latter part
of the verse: 'The right of the first-born is his.'" The service of the Church of England was
then read for the first time on that side of the Tweed.[192]

William Gordon, Viscount Kenmure, had the command of the Jacobite army until they had crossed
the Tweed. Like the Earl of Derwentwater, this unfortunate nobleman is declared to have shewn
reluctance to take up arms. On having been solicited by the Earl of Mar to command the forces,
and assured that he would join him, he at first refused the offer, but had finally acceded,
and had set up the standard of the Chevalier at Moffat, in Annandale. The standard was made,
for this occasion, by Lady Kenmure, the sister of Robert, sixth Earl of Carnwath. It was very
handsome; one side being blue, with the arms of Scotland wrought in gold; on the other side
a thistle,--the words so often uttered during the Rebellion, and re-echoed in many a Scottish
heart, "No Union," were wrought underneath the thistle. Above it were the words NEMO ME IMPUNE
LACESSIT; white pendants were attached to the standard, on which were inscribed--"For our Wronged
King and Oppressed Country!" "For our Lives and Liberties!"

But the nobleman who had taken this prominent part in the Rebellion of 1715, although possessed
of extraordinary knowledge in politics and civil affairs, was an utter stranger to all military
business. His mild temper and his unoffending character inspired compassion for his subsequent
fate, but unfitted him for the office of command: his gentler qualities were united, nevertheless,
to a resolute and lofty mind. The fate of this nobleman, like that of his most distinguished
friends, was a brief tragedy.

Lord Kenmure had a troop of gentlemen with him, the command of which he gave to the Hon. Bazil
Hamilton of Beldoun, and a nephew of the Duke of Hamilton.

Among other characters who were conspicuous on this occasion, was the celebrated Brigadier
Mackintosh. The sixth regiment, named after the Brigadier as chief of the clan, was commanded
by a kinsman. The Brigadier had served in Germany, and had there gained his military rank.
Descended from the ancient house of Fife, the chieftain had increased his influence by marrying,
while a minor, the heiress of Clanchattan, in right of whom he became chieftain of that clan,
comprising many others. His motto, "Touch not the cat without a glove," and the coat-of-arms
supported by two wild cats, with a cat for the crest, were not inappropriate. No suspicion
had been entertained of Mackintosh's adherence to the Chevalier, with whom he became acquainted
abroad, until he actually joined the party.

The Earl of Carnwath, Lord Nairn, Lord Charles Murray, and the Earl of Wintoun, commanded the
other Scottish regiments, which were generally better armed than those of the English. The
Earl of Derwentwater, and the Lords Widdrington had the two principal English regiments, of
which there were four.[193]

On the twenty-fifth of October, the united army of Scots and English left Kelso, and marched
to Jedburgh. On their march, some of the Scots, taking umbrage, left the army under the guidance
of the Earl of Wintoun; and although that nobleman afterwards returned with his troop, above
four hundred Highlanders deserted, and returned to their country.

During the progress of the insurgent forces, there is little reason to conclude that Lord Derwentwater
took a very active or important part in the various consultations which were held, always with
great disunion, and with a melancholy want of judgment, between the General, Mr. Forster, and
his military council. The amiable nobleman appears to have assigned to his less discreet brother
the entire guidance of his troop. "His temper and disposition," as he expresses it in his defence,
"disposed him to peace. He was totally inexperienced in martial affairs; that he entered upon
the undertaking without any previous concert with its chief promoters,--without any preparation
of men, horses, and arms, or other warlike accoutrements," was at once an instance of his imprudence
and a mitigation of his error.[194] There was, indeed, no doubt but that Lord Derwentwater
might have brought many hundreds of his followers to the field, even from one portion of his
estate only; for he possessed the extensive lead mines on Alstone Moor, where a large body
of men were daily employed, and received from him their sole means of support.[195]

