BARRETT WILLOUGHBY.

Katalla, Alaska.

CONTENTS

PART I

CHAPTER

      I.--THE WHITE CHIEF OF KATLEEAN
     II.--THE CHEECHACO
    III.--THE LITTLE SQUAW WITH WHITE FEET
     IV.--BAIT
      V.--THE FUNERAL CANOES
     VI.--THE WHITE CHIEF MAKES MEDICINE
    VII.--THE POTLATCH DANCE
   VIII.--THE OUTFIT
     IX.--HARLAN WAKES UP
      X.--THE PIGEON

PART II

     XI.--THE ISLAND OF THE RUBY SANDS
    XII.--THE LANDING
   XIII.--THE CABIN
    XIV.--THE CASTAWAY
     XV.--THE GIANT BALLS OF STONE
    XVI.--THE STORM
   XVII.--THE MYSTERIOUS PRESENCE
  XVIII.--THE PERIL OF THE SURF
    XIX.--HOME MAKING
     XX.--GOLD
    XXI.--KOBUK
   XXII.--AT THE LONE TREE
  XXIII.--ELLEN
   XXIV.--MAROONED

PART III

    XXV.--ON RATIONS
   XXVI.--WINTER DAYS
  XXVII.--SPRING
 XXVIII.--THE CLEFT
   XXIX.--THE SECRET OF THE CLIFFS
    XXX.--THE PIGEON'S FLIGHT
   XXXI.--THE JUSTICE OF THE SEA
  XXXII.--BENEATH THE BLOOD-RED SUN
 XXXIII.--ANCHORS WEIGHED

WHERE THE SUN SWINGS NORTH

PART I

CHAPTER I

THE WHITE CHIEF OF KATLEEAN

It was quiet in the great store room of the Alaska Fur and Trading Company's post at Kat-lee-an.
The westering sun streaming in through a side window lighted up shelves of brightly labeled
canned goods and a long, scarred counter piled high with gay blankets and men's rough clothing.
Back of the big, pot-bellied stove--cold now--that stood near the center of the room, lidless
boxes of hard-tack and crackers yawned in open defiance of germs.  An amber, mote-filled ray
slanted toward the moss-chinked log wall where a row of dusty fox and wolverine skins hung--pelts
discarded when the spring shipment of furs had been made, because of flaws visible only to
expert eyes.

At the far end of the room the possessor of those expert eyes sat before a rough home-made
desk.  There was a rustle of papers and he closed the ledger in front of him with an air of
relief.  He clapped his hands smartly.  Almost on the instant the curtain hanging in the doorway
at the side of the desk was drawn aside and a small, brown feminine hand materialized.

"My cigarettes, Decitan."

The man's voice was low, with that particular vibrant quality often found in the voices of
men accustomed to command inferior peoples on the far outposts of civilization.

The curtain wavered again and from behind the folds a brown arm, bare and softly rounded, accompanied
the hand that set down a tray of smoking materials.

With a careless nod toward his invisible servitor, the man picked up a cigarette and lighted
it.  He took one long, deep pull.  Tossing it aside he swung his chair about and faced the
open doorway that gave on a courtyard and the bay beyond.

He readjusted the scarlet band about his narrow hips.  Flannel-shirted, high-booted, he stretched
his six-foot length in the tilting chair and clasped his hands behind his head.  The movement
loosened a lock of black hair which fell heavily across his forehead.  His eyes, long, narrow
and the color of pale smoke, drowsed beneath brows that met above his nose.  Thin, sharply
defined nostrils quivered under the slightest emotion, and startling against the whiteness
of his face, was a short, pointed beard, black and silky as a woman's hair.  When Paul Kilbuck,
the white trader of Katleean, smiled, his thin, red lips parted over teeth white and perfect,
but there was that in the long, pointed incisors that brought to mind the clean fangs of a
wolf-dog.

He closed his pale eyes now and smiled to himself.  His work on the Company's books was finished
for the present.  He hated the petty details of account keeping, but since the death of old
Add-'em-up Sam, his helper and accountant, who had departed this world six months before during
a spell of delirium tremens, the trader had been obliged to do his own. 

Most astronomers are unwilling to accept that the creation of the universe is a result of an accident. This
is possibly due to the fact that we believe that there is a pattern of regularity and order in the
entire cosmos, due to some hints that science provides us.  No other man
in the North had such power and influence among the Thlinget tribes. No other man sent in such
quantities of prime pelts; hence the White Chief of Katleean had never been obliged to give
too strict an accounting of his stewardship.  Taking what belongs to a company is not, in the
elastic code of the North, considered stealing.  "God is high above and the Czar is far away,"
said the plundering, roistering old Russians of Baranoff's day, and the spirit in the isolated
posts had not changed, though Russian adventurers come no more to rape Alaska of her riches,
and the Stars and Stripes now floats over the old-time Russian stronghold at Sitka.

For eighteen years Kilbuck had been the agent of the Company.  In trading-posts up and down
the coast where the trappers and prospectors gather to outfit, many tales of the White Chief
were afloat: his trips to the Outside[1]; his lavish spending of money; his hiring of private
cars to take him from Seattle to New York; his princely entertainment of beautiful women. 
In every story told of Paul Kilbuck there were women.  Sometimes they were white, but more
often they were dusky beauties of the North.

Among the several dark-eyed Thlinget women who occupied the mysterious quarters back of the
log store, there was always rejoicing when the White Chief returned from his visits to the
States.  He was a generous master, bringing back with him many presents from the land of the
white people--rings, beads, trinkets, and yards of bright colored silks.  The favorites of
his household fondled these gifts for a time with soft, guttural cries of delight and gentle
strokings of their slim, brown hands, and then laid them away in fantastically carved Indian
chests of yellow cedar.

Perhaps the strangest of these gifts had been a pair of homing pigeons, which had thrived and
multiplied under the care of Add-'em-up Sam.  A fluttering of wings now outside the doorway
bespoke the presence of some of them, and Kilbuck stirred in his chair and opened his eyes.

He had been many hours alone in the store, but he had been prepared for that today.  The entire
post of Katleean was getting ready for the Potlatch, an Indian festival scheduled for the near
future.  For this occasion Kayak Bill, in his carefully secreted still across the lagoon, had
completed a particularly potent batch of moonshine, known locally as hootch. CHAPTER VII.

Can we believe Christ and his apostles? 190

The Gospel in a unit, must accept or reject it. Testimony of the Apostles
circumstantial. Numerous witnesses and Independent. Confirm your testimony
with his blood.

CHAPTER VIII.

The White Chief rose from his chair and reached for another cigarette. As usual, he tossed
it away after one long, deep inhalation.  Before the smoke cleared from his head, he was crossing
the store room with his easy panther tread--the result of former years of moccasin-wearing.

In the open doorway he paused, leaned against the portal and hooked one thumb beneath his scarlet
belt.  His narrow eyes swept the scene before him.  Across the bay, between purple hills, a
valley lay dreaming in rose-lavender mist.  Blue above the August haze was a glimpse of a glacier,
and farther back, peaks rose tier upon tier in the vague, amethystine distance.

Suddenly the quiet beauty was shot through with the sound of loud voices and snatches of song
issuing from the cabin of Kayak Bill.  The trader listened with a smile that was half a sneer.
He himself never drank while at the post, deeming that it lessened his influence with the Indians.
But among the secrets of his own experience were memories of wild days and nights aboard visiting
schooners, at the end of which prone in the captain's bunk, he had lain for hours in alcoholic
oblivion.

The voices from the cabin ceased abruptly.  Then like the bellow of a fog horn on a lonely
northern sea came Kayak Bill's deep bass:

  "Take me north of old Point Barrow
  Where there ain't no East or West;
  Where man has a thirst that lingers
  And where moonshine tastes the best;
  Where the Arctic ice-pack hovers
  'Twixt Alaska and the Pole,
  And there ain't no bloomin' fashions
  To perplex a good man's soul."

There was a momentary pause followed by a hubbub of masculine voices apparently in a dispute
as to how the song should run.  High above the others rose a squeaky Scandinavian protest:

"By yingo, ven ay ban cook on Soofie Suderlant ve sing it so dis vay----"

"Close yore mouth, Silvertip."  As a whale would swallow a minnow so Kayak Bill's drawling
tones engulfed the thin, high accents of the one-time cook of the Sophie Sutherland.  "I ain't
no nature for Swedes a-devilin' o' me.  I been singin' that song for nigh on to ten yars, and
by the roarin' Jasus, I reckon I know how to sing it.  Come on boys--now all together!"

Joining the again raised bass of Kayak Bill, several voices took up the rollicking strain,
among them the high, easily recognizable tenor of Silvertip, and the voice of another, a baritone
of startling mellowness and purity, having in it a timbre of youth and recklessness:

  "Up into the Polar Seas,
  Where the Innuit maidens be,
  There's a fat, bright-eyed va-hee-ney
  A-waitin' there for me.
  She's sittin' in her igloo cold,
  Chewing on a muckluck sole,
  And the sun comes up at midnight
  From an ice-pack round the Pole."

At the sound of the baritone, the White Chief hitched his shoulders with a movement of satisfaction.
Add-'em-up Sam's successor, the bookkeeper, was bidding fair to follow in the sodden footsteps
of his predecessor.  Given a little more time and this baritone-singing cheechako[2] would
be where the White Chief need have no anxiety as to the accounts rendered the Company's new
president, whom Kilbuck had never seen.  A little more time, a little more hootch, and he would
also have settled the case of Na-lee-nah.

The thought of the Thlinget girl's soft brown eyes brought a momentary pang.  The white plague
permitted few native women to become old. Twice now Naleenah had lost her voice, and only last
night he had noticed behind her soft, her singularly beautiful little ears, the peculiar drawn
look that to his practiced eye spelled tuberculosis. She would last two years more, perhaps,
but in the meantime he must protect himself--he stirred uneasily.  The bookkeeper must be made
to take her off his hands.

His musing was broken into by another burst of song:

  "Oh-o-o-o!  I am a jolly rover
  And I lead a jolly life!
  I have my hootch and salmon
  And a little squaw to wife."

Simultaneously the door of Kayak Bill's cabin opened and the owner, a tatterdemalion figure,
stood for a moment on the doorstep.  Stretching his arms above his head, he yawned prodigiously,
and then, espying Kilbuck, sauntered across the courtyard toward him.

An old sombrero curved jauntily on red-grey hair that was overly long. A wavy beard of auburn-grey
spread over the front of his blue flannel shirt.  Hanging loosely from his shoulders a hair-seal
waistcoat, brightly trimmed with red flannel, served as a coat above faded blue overalls, and
from the knees down Kayak Bill was finished off with hip rubber boots, the turned-down tops
of which flapped with every step, lending a swashbuckling air to his rolling gait.

He seated himself leisurely on the steps below the platform in front of the trading-post door.

