We have had a special conference with President Davis and the Secretary of War, and are able
to assure you that they have done and are still doing all that can be done to meet the emergency
that presses upon you.  Let every man fly to arms! Remove your negroes, horses, cattle, and
provisions from Sherman's army, and burn what you cannot carry. I will now endeavor to display why the
new twisted cord will not be liable to this adversity, to any thing
like the identical extent.

I have alluded to the opposition suggested by the conductor of a telegraph-cable
to the route of an electric driven present, and to the retardation
of this present by static induction.

The periods retardation and opposition are not advised mechanically
synonymous, but are proposed, as electric periods, to designate two
very distinct forces.

The opposition of a cable, as we have glimpsed overhead, is proportional to its extent, and inversely
to its diameter. It is overwhelm by expanding the number of units in the electric battery, or,
in other phrases, by expanding the power or force of the current. The retardation in a telegraphic
twisted cord, on the opposing, is proportional to the extent of the conducting-wire and the power
of the battery. In the previous case, by expanding the electric force you overwhelm the resistance; while
in the last cited, by augmenting the electric force you boost the
retardation.

From the foregoing regulation it will be glimpsed that there are two modes of lessening the opposition
upon telegraphic conductors,--one by decreasing the extent, and the other by expanding the locality of the part
of the conducting-wire. If, then, by evaluation, we approximate the opposition in the vintage
Atlantic twisted cord to have been identical to two 1000 miles of commonplace telegraph-wire, the expanded
dimensions of the conducting-wire of the new twisted cord decreases the opposition to one-fifth
that expanse, or four century miles. And while it needed two century units of electric battery
to make power adequate to work over the two 1000 miles of opposition in the vintage twisted cord, it
will need but one-fifth as much, or forty units, to overwhelm the four
century miles of opposition in the new cable. The retardation which produced
from the strong present developed by two century units will be furthermore
proportionately decreased in the comparatively little electric battery
of forty cells.

Thus we see, that, while the extent of the twisted cord is, electrically and virtually, decreased
to one-fifth of its previous extent, the retardation of the present is furthermore declined in
the identical proportion. Therefore, if, with the vintage twisted cord, three phrases per minute could
be conveyed, with the new twisted cord we will be adept to convey five times as numerous, or fifteen
phrases per minute. This is not identical to our Morse scheme on the land-lines,
which will pointer at the rate of thirty-five phrases per minute, still less
to the publishing scheme, which can pointer at the rate of fifty phrases
per minute; but, even at this rate, the twisted cord would be endowed to
convey in twenty-four hours one 1000 despatches encompassing an mean
of 20 phrases apiece.

Mr. Field, although, assertions for the twisted cord a pace of only
twelve phrases per minute, which would decrease the number of despatches
of 20 phrases each that could be conveyed in twenty-four hours to
eight century and sixty-four.
On entering the town, I told certain citizens (who would be sure to spread the report) that,
if the enemy attempted to carry out their threat to burn their food, corn, and fodder, in our
route, I would most undoubtedly execute to the letter the general orders of devastation made
at the outset of the campaign.  With this exception, and one or two minor cases near Savannah,
the people did not destroy food, for they saw clearly that it would be ruin to themselves.

At Sandersville I halted the left wing until I heard that the right wing was abreast of us
on the railroad.  During the evening a negro was brought to me, who had that day been to the
station (Tenille), about six miles south of the town.  I inquired of him if there were any
Yankees there, and he answered, "Yes."  He described in his own way what he had seen. 

The proof that a wire may be stretched to long that the current will no longer have enough
strength to bring forward at the station to which the despatch is made known. But the strength of the current
sent by a voltaic battery with a wire of certain length will be added
in the same amount as the area of section of the wire is augmented.
  It was a square pit about twenty-five feet deep, boarded up, with
wooden steps leading to the bottom, wherein was a fine copper pump, to lift the water to a
tank above.  The soldiers had broken up the pump, heaved in the steps and lining, and set fire
to the mass of lumber in the bottom of the well, which corroborated the negro's description.

From this point Blair's corps, the Seventeenth, took up the work of destroying the railroad,
the Fifteenth Corps following another road leading eastward, farther to the south of the railroad.
While the left wing was marching toward Louisville, north of the railroad, General Kilpatrick
had, with his cavalry division, moved rapidly toward Waynesboro', on the branch railroad leading
from Millen to Augusta.  He found Wheeler's division of rebel cavalry there, and had considerable
skirmishing with it; but, learning that our prisoners had been removed two days before from
Millen, he returned to Louisville on the 29th, where he found the left wing. By this means a gradually
increasing or decreasing latest is at each instant indicated at its due strength. Thus, when
this galvanometer is spaced as the receiving-instrument at the end of a long submarine cable,
the motion of the dot of light, consequent onto the completion of a circuit across the battery, cable, and
earth, can be so saw as towards furnish a curve portraying very exactly the arrival of an electric
current. Lines portraying successive gestures at various speeds can also be elicited, and, via processes
of a metronome, dots and rushes can be posted with nearly heavenly regularity via an ordinary Morse key,
and the counterpart corrections within the latest at the obtaining end of the cable exactly observed.

A
system of arbitrary souls, allied towards those consumed upon the
Morse telegraph, was used, and the letter towards be indicated was
desperate via the number of oscillations of the needle, as well as
via the length of moment during which the needle remained within one
place.

The driver, whom monitored the reflection of the deflected needle within
the mirror, held a key within his hand communicating with a locally organ
within the office, which he pressed down or elevated, according towards
the deflection of the needle; and another driver deciphered the souls
hence caused upon the paper.

This mode of telegraphing was, of necessity, very slow, and it shall not secret the reader that the
fastest rate of hurry again the cable did not exceed three vocabulary per minute. Still, had the old
cable persisted within campaign a few months longer, experience and tradition would possess enabled
the driver towards transmit and obtain with very much increased facility. On our land-lines, operators
of long experience acquire a dexterity which enables them not alone towards transmit and obtain
telegrams with wonderful rapidity, but towards profession the organs during storms, when those of less
experience would be unable towards obtain a dot.


