In the British Museum.)

CHAPTER I

We once had a glorious school of composers. It departed, with no sunset splendour on it, nor
even the comfortable ripe tints of autumn. The sun of the young morning shone on its close;
the dews of dawn gleam for ever on the last music; the freshness and purity of the air of early
morning linger about it. It closed with Purcell, and it is no hyperbole to say the note that
distinguishes Purcell's music from all other music in the world is the note of spring freshness.
The dewy sweetness of the morning air is in it, and the fragrance of spring flowers. The brown
sheets on which the notes are printed have lain amongst the dust for a couple of centuries;
they are musty and mildewed. Set the sheets on a piano and play: the music starts to life in
full youthful vigour, as music from the soul of a young god should. It cannot and never will
grow old; the everlasting life is in it that makes the green buds shoot. To realise the immortal
youth of Purcell's music, let us make a comparison. Consider Mozart, divine Mozart. Mixed with
the ineffable beauty of his music there is sadness, apart and different from the sadness that
was of the man's own soul. It is the sadness that clings to forlorn things of an order that
is dead and past: it tinkles in the harpsichord figurations and cadences; it makes one think
of lavender scent and of the days when our great-grandmothers danced minuets. Purcell's music,
too, is sad at times, but the human note reaches us blended with the gaiety of robust health
and the clean young life that is renewed each year with the lengthening days.

The beauty of sanity, strength, and joyousness--this pervades all he wrote. It was modern when
he wrote; it is modern to-day; it will be modern to-morrow and a hundred years hence. In it
the old modes of his mighty predecessors Byrde and Tallis are left an eternity behind; they
belong to a forgotten order. Of the crabbedness of Harry Lawes there is scarcely a trace: that
belonged to an era of experiments. What few generations still a number of allotted was fifty before, and
today the tighter and harder choice testing only five of twelve or three, or met as a result.
Who will be the ideal in the love of his life at risk to share? Fortunately, the heart is always
ready to contracts. Would love suddenly common property of all, there would be forty years in the Earth
died out. Who chooses to love is not the fate has strength and patience also fails. He is content
because he has to humble himself. He loves what he entgegenbringt love, its ruler is the chance.
He conquered or he can conquer, a semblance of difficulty and distance, it generates the necessary
poetry. The one who loves a body, the second face, the third one look, one hand. I do not mean just literally,
I will ensure that only to say that he takes the part for the whole.
The part for the whole take, that is so human species, and not even
the worst, it makes even characters.

The lover's eye person, and his suffering is real, its pleasures are
Dionysian, the other, the love only guess as a night-goers the dawn,
is a tentative man, his passion is a fever, his joys and sorrows are
imaginary, it becomes saturated of bread, while imagination heavenly
food eaten his, he does not, he does not understand at all to see,
he wants lulled to be, he will only dream of, he always philosophically
or is suspicious, jealous, sad, insatiable, supersaturated rapidly,
he can not lose in love, however much he wants it, for the river which
has engulfed him, is deep enough.

Some love only the love or the longing for love or the mask of love, or the restlessness of
love or the triumph of love, and so we can go down deeper still, from the love remains nothing more
than the name. Failure has many forms. Did you not then also the young Baron B., who was at
the German embassy? "The great seducer of women -?" Yes. Nothing is easier today than the title of
a Seducer purchase, you need only a little way to get in the way just having fun. Baron B. This
was thus always a dozen women at the same time intimate. In each one he was given preference
because of love, and he once sat apart all seriousness, his idea of love is so enormous that he
could never hope that what he wanted, the totality of a person found in. "A privateers, "Faustina
said contemptuously. "Five years ago, he has elderly millionaire married one." "Yes, the seducer
of our normally." "Of a hundred so-called ladies' man know ninety-nine no idea how women obtain
one is," said Faustina. "Well, where sensibility looking confused, can not be said of love.
There is a difference between how the smoke and the flame.

"Is it so? Is it really so? "Faustina said hastily. "Sensual passion
does not contribute, which I admit.

But if we only want to recognize love in its perfection, the, what
remains still exist? which may then be called love?

Let me make things a little easier. Man, as he is very capable, not on the level of his feeling
to hold. The kindest, the noblest has a devil in the chest, forces him divine part of his nature to lay
hands on himself. Maybe in love the sensuality of such a devil, perhaps it is a vicious animal,
as the saints say. Maybe she is the preserver of the world? And if she is the preserver of the
world, why slander her evil? Can it be because of the love part with? They say, love will death.
I dare not shake it, even though such a sentence my thoughts all
the upheaval.

But suppose you are right, how can this with the intention of nature combine to propagate the species
will still love ?

"" That is a mistake, Faustina.

Through love genre is not just propagated, at least it is not made out. It is itself an end. "Oho! If
you say so before the assembled people, they will stone you.

I'm a modern man should not even think of love without also thinking of the child. My God, you will
see our educated young girls only! What objectivity!

What science! They act as if they are in love one must Midwives exam at the same time. Well, everyone
will be saved as he will. But I must say, is a symptom of it. It is not honest in these things. And
because it is not honest enough, love or sensuality to concede their rights for granted, take the child
as an excuse to cover. It gives the prudery and the unveiling of a pseudonym, which she more
debased than glossed over. "Not so wild, Faustina! You have a kind of agree with me that makes
me mad in my opinion almost. The creatures of which you speak, are nothing but misguided. And the spirit
of the time itself is the one who is cheating. Enlightenment is now called the talking. Only,
however, this explanation is something else than they did a hundred years ago. A hundred years ago
it wanted to clear up everything: heaven and hell, tales and miracles,
art and religion.

Fatal flow of the long not enough, not grateful enough appreciated upward growth of German Romanticism
is helpful entgegendämmte. Our intelligence has internalized themselves. They want all that the soul
of man is going on in so much as intellectually in ways of feeling,
interpretation, the idea does not get at.

The writers have turned into soul researchers, educators, more or less obstinate in determinists. You
put the indefinite a provision under, ancient traditions lose their
weight, significantly its contour, rank differences are blurred designed
', authority aroused suspicion, and I do not deny it, can I deny it
not, unfortunately, the general democratization, the small mind is
a boon the great a horror, extending to the remotest corners of the
heart.

But my consolation is that all this is only a transition, yes. I often feel as if an invisible giant world
torn to pieces our order of the components a better, more beautiful to make new, and as if such
dismemberment is necessary, to a higher area to raise our existence. "chimeras", "Faustina
said shaking her head. "What do I do with pipe dreams? To me with something given to terms, for
that I am. State is given me the unbearable now, I am rebelling. Democratization, yes, yes, this
is it! What does it mean: to be a Democrat? Democrat means being to mean something outside of
an organic society. Is not it? "Yes, or personality to act as outside the firm and wish to
hasten on the basis of singular self-created rights or powers." Excellent.
" What can this come about?

There
is the nobility. What does it all the time so powerful to be let? But probably only the brazen
context of its members due to a brazen tradition. But today, today, each clerk with a marked
individuality already, and each cow dressed-babbling about their self-determination. What
is the consequence? Even before the poorest human obligations are met, mankind has made the happiness
demands, how to change to a view presented. All those in the happy possession of a personality like that,
what person in their view is just the same, the poor merchants, who for
a large company with a small capital involved and want to be millionaires
over night.

This personality knights practicing law from a new hand and the lawlessness which it encourages
them appears as the summit of freedom and culture. My belief is this, that a democratic age, nor ever
can be one of love age now. Especially in love is indeed the sacrifice of the personality required.
Surrender! A wonderful word! The Democrat, the individual Democrat, he is not himself, he gives himself
only. And he loves, he must love purposeful. And outside of sense, because where would he or for purpose?
So he must love sensual. "One of the" can formulate how you will, Faustina, I argue, not against
it, but I wonder myself, because you yourself have previously argued for sensuality. "" Did I?
So I just want to say that the throne erected their own sensuality,
and other forces of love that has conquered. the organic collaboration
of the stops, forces are formed when, medically speaking, neoplasm,
at the expense of the rest of the body feeding on and slowly destroy
it.

"" This medical comparison is me - morally, dear friend.

We must not be any moral price to, otherwise we undermine the ability to communicate. There
is a kind of sensibility, which works much the same as the light when it comes in clear water and the
water to the bottom-rayed to it dematerialized.

What you want sensuality sensuality oppose the individual? About the naive? It would be a schema.
Each scheme is the experience behind, not to mention the synthesis of. EHRC we therefore,
for example, one difference between elementary and sophisticated sensuality. Where's the line? Where
the Wild elementary, because he desires only the females in general?

Werther is differentiated, because he shoots himself at Lotte? You see, one has no hold on such distinctions.
""

Oh, they differ to your heart, but you are not yet persuaded me that
it is a sensibility, a cause and a sensibility, which is a consequence.

One is a flush, the other a force that governs one's will, the other comes from the soul ... "" Well,
well, that may have its correctness, but we get no results. We gain only insight, if we proceed
from the imagination, when we say there is a sensuality without imagination, and there is a sensuality
and imagination. Yes, I'm going to say so far: imagination and sensibility are like the two wings
of the same nature, love of nature, namely, the two wings, without which it will never solve the
chaos and the rise of earth can. And this one to me is clear: that the modern ideal of love and
sensuality of a lot more under the sign of the imagination is, as was the case ever. "" Are you serious?
"My perfect seriousness. I want to stress that the ideal. I do not consider the phenomena themselves,
and I will gladly admit that we are ideal further than ever away from.
The reason lies not in the inferiority of life, but in the superiority
of the ideal.

Just by becoming personal existence results of our existence is indeed the richness of form and richness
of the increased infinitely. What the one hand, the separation of the good, the isolation of
the efficient causes of makes the other side of the force and the law on under which it to advantage,
to develop their powers come at all. There is thus a confluence of many isolated ideals, an interaction
of increased life sentiments of the heterogeneous nature rather than
one whose population and their organic fusion, if it be far will come
to this time, he very much from the primitive, and therefore advance
the harmonious ideals of previous eras distinguished by is.

And besides, what could be a greater spur to the imagination than just the distance between
ideal and reality? "Oh," Faustina said frowning, "it means, then,
the imagination of the renunciation to be one?

As seen mans, with logic one is deliciously far! "At a means of renunciation, - yes. But not in the
spirit of asceticism, but in the spirit of perfection and perfection. A lover, Faustina, what else is he
the chosen one has to as a sense of momentum for the most intense possible source of pleasure to
him, the decision itself.

Let us imagine the sensual nature, and we think they both liebefähig and determined to love in the
noblest Art By chooses, she takes her irrevocable fate, she knows,
and because they know it, they follow a high moral imperative, if
they the subject of love in the highest region of perfection rises.

The more imagination then this game is, the more reality can be forgotten, and not in a selfish illusion,
but in a beautiful, selfless, perfect illusion, indeed, flatly said
, in favor of an illusion of perfection.

Or take a negative example: we take unhappy lover, I do not mean those based on superficial reasons,
but those reasons are prevented from inward, to become one. Unhappy lovers are beings who are
not patient, that is, not the power, the last reason is no provision
had to choose. Now what does that mean: to be patient while passionate
mind?

It wants nothing more to say than do creative imagination. And that the true lover creative
imagination, has the shows itself in that moment when he begins to love. "Still, dear friend,
I still do not quite see how we, we elect the twentieth century,
is a have preference.

Their arguments do not satisfy me, oh, am I so unsatisfied arguments as in everything else. There
was a time when love was an event, an adventure, a miracle, indeed, a miracle she was, and today?
If you or your peers, is for man or woman love a miracle? This great
incomprehensible, this ... Now this is wonderful -?

No, no, no! Or I do not know us? I do
not know my time? Women Are the eyes of a self-conscious?

Transform the experiences of a woman not in a Knowledge? This point is your righteousness, justice,
nothing like your famous men aufgeschmückte philosophy and excuse. Where's the miracle is not what
is because the imagination? What to wing, where there is no air that sustains them? From the
eagle is said, that he must die, if not more he can fly, can not go to him, so he must die. You
is not like the eagles, you men, you can also go and make yourself against any fighter from
the dust. "" The Miracle! The miracle of love! As the sounds Faustina!
As a novel of George Sand.

The thing is really that we love more is absolutely as no surprise.

"" Really? And why,
if I may ask?

Let me hear the reason, I am curious and full of contradiction in
advance, for me it is a piece of heart.

"No, love as a phenomenon for us is no miracle in the sense of 1750 or 1820, where the lover
are in the refinement of his feeling, reflected in his feeling was almost to the Narcissus. The
reason why this is no longer so, is that we are too scientific, the other to historically one hand to feel.
Sun herausgesagt dry, the taste of pedantry, but we are not even aware of the causes. To scientific:
not only because we read it in books, or because we observe it in nature or because every process
of life taught them, but because we are convinced, or better expressed the view in bone marrow
and is sitting, that whatever as breathing, and is growing, and one obeys the same law that a bond
of love is all beings winds, an instinct of reproduction, there is a will, his creator, to conquer death, everyone
and everything penetrates to the core. For historical reason, because our minds are in no way intoxicated
and selfish at the moment is because we are full of history, of immanent experience, since the fate
of individual as well as whole families, indeed the whole species
consistently and without being aware of it we speaks to us and our
own way points.

As little as our superstitious fear of a thunderstorm moved in, so little so we will seem the
wonderful event of great love, so both come from nature, both are
founded in the growth and decay.

But now comes the strange one: In general, in particular the existence of catastrophic we left
off, favoritism, secrecy and personal indebtedness to see miracles and, on a small scale but,
in everyday life of doing and looking at us every thing surprising. Highly significant it is, this
word wonder: is. We are constantly surprised actually. It amazes us the Worm, it surprised us
the starry sky, it amazes us the apple, it surprised us a mountain, water and electricity. It amazes
us the beggars and it amazes us the rich man, it amazes us and it surprised the murderer, the poet,
it surprised us the brave and the coward surprised us.

That is because we have discovered that the need in all, the sense of the absoluteness of their
being, and thus ultimately the beauty that they own form of beauty. As before, one of pantheism,
we could speak of a Panhumanismus or better by a Supreme Being. It's all we become human, become creaturely,
- belong. That brings a source of joy to an immeasurable have increased, it is clear and the realm
of beauty, as Christ said of the kingdom of God in us. The kingdom of
love, too.

And if we now the whole world so much in us, if our senses constantly
possess it, it follows that but for the purposes of saying that it
limited, to a richness in contents, to a purpose and Zielvolles are
shown on one that they courageous , have become a proud and safe and
that their most indispensable ally, because of intuition, of idea
of understanding, devotion, sense of the world are nurtured, the imagination
is.

It is also in love. The sensuality is therefore no longer limited to the body, they do not want to
conquer, not to seduce, from arts gallant they need to understand anything at all, because it seeks
nothing more than agreement.

They outwitted not because it enhances and does not reveal the body but the soul, yes, it is, and
even on such internal disclosures to rely entirely, and it is a form of no use if the contents are
not a form. Jealousy is one reason it incomprehensible concept, because it is the uniqueness, the immutable
law, that it is based. There is no emotion in it, not said a word, one based on an understanding with.
We are again reached the imagination, for understanding he has no other root than the spiritual
power of man's imagination. "You jump around with the imagination somewhat arbitrary, my
friend," Faustina said coolly. "Do I? In fact, I write the imagination to a far greater role than is
usual.
 He undoubtedly did go abroad.
He got, at any rate, as far as Paris, and came back, says Pepys, "an absolute monsieur"--very
vain, loquacious, and "mighty great" with the King. Most of the musicians of the time were
vain. Cooke must have been intolerable. Perhaps they learnt it from the actors with whom they
associated--many of them, in fact, were actors as well as musicians. Humphries had worked under
Lulli. It is not known that he had any other master in Paris or in Italy, or whether he ever
got as far as Italy. Up to that date no opera of Lulli's seems to have been produced, but he
was none the less a master of music, and he could hand on what he had learnt of Carissimi's
technique. Humphries, highly gifted, swift, returned to England knowing all Lulli could teach
him. He had not Purcell's rich imagination, nor his passion, nor that torrential flow of ever-fresh
melody; but it cannot be doubted that he was of immense service in indicating new paths and
new ways of doing things. He had--at second hand we must admit--Carissimi's methods and new
impulse; and, at the very least, he saved Purcell the trouble of a journey to Paris. It was
a misfortune for English music that he died so early. These Restoration geniuses had a way
of dying early. He distinctly had genius, a very different thing from the plodding industry
of Dr. John Blow, who succeeded him in 1674. Dr. Blow afterwards claimed to have been Purcell's
master, and, as Purcell was certainly his pupil, there seems no reason for doubting him. Purcell
was, of course, sixteen years of age when Humphries died, and no longer a mere choir-boy; but
he remained attached to Westminster Abbey and the Chapel Royal. According to the records of
the "King's Musick," on June 10, 1673, there is a "warrant to admit Henry Purcell in the place
of keeper, maker, mender, repayrer and tuner of the regalls, organs, virginalls, flutes and
recorders and all other kind of wind instruments whatsoever, in ordinary, without fee, to his
Majesty, and assistant to John Hingston, and upon the death or other avoydance of the latter,
to come in ordinary with fee." So late as 1683, when Purcell had been organist of Westminster
Abbey for about three years, he was appointed to be "organ-maker and keeper in the place of
Mr. Hingston, deceased." The conjecture of Rev. Henry Cart de Lafontaine, editor of these records
(published by Novello) seems to be correct: Purcell must have been apprenticed to Hingston
and afterwards succeeded him. In later warrants he is authorised to buy wood, metal and Heaven
knows what else--he can buy what he likes as long as he keeps the instruments in order and
in tune. Charles II. had a good ear. In 1676 Purcell was appointed "copyist" of Westminster
Abbey, whatever post that may have been. In 1677 "Henry Purcell" is "appointed composer in
ordinary with fee for the violin to his Majesty, in the place of Matthew Lock, deceased." I
fancy that his tuition from Dr. Blow must have been mainly in organ-playing, in which art Dr.
Blow was an esteemed master. At the same time, we must not forget that we have Purcell's own
word for it that Blow was one of the greatest masters of composition in the world. Purcell
spoke of Dr. Blow's technical mastery of the tricks of canon-writing, which Purcell himself
was much addicted to, and greatly enjoyed. Dr. Blow may have taught Purcell something of the
older technique; that of Lulli and the Italians he must have learnt from Humphries, for Dr.
Blow knew next to nothing about it. Dr. Blow was born in 1648, and was one year younger than
Humphries, and ten older than Purcell. In 1669 he became organist of Westminster Abbey. He,
like Humphries, and, indeed, all the foremost musicians of the period, was a bloated pluralist,
and held other positions. It is said that he resigned Westminster Abbey in 1680 in Purcell's
favour. Whether the resignation was voluntary or not, Purcell assuredly took his place at that
date. After Purcell's death in 1695 Dr. Blow took the position again, and retained it until
his own death, in 1708. It is also said that he resigned another place to make way for another
pupil, Jeremiah Clarke. This apparent passion or mania for resigning posts in favour of gifted
pupils might easily have led to a pernicious custom amongst organists. However, since Dr. Blow's
time the organist of Westminster Abbey has always been a more business-like person, though
rarely, if ever, a fine artist. Dr. Blow, living amongst men of such genius, caught a little--a
very little--of Humphries' and Purcell's lordly manner in the writing of music; but no sweet
breath of inspiration ever blew his way. Burney, unfortunate creature, found fault with his
harmonies, and these have been defended as "spots on the sun." As a matter of fact, the harmonies
are good enough. There are no spots--only there is no sun. His claim to have taught Purcell
is a claim for such immortality as books give. Purcell's teacher will be remembered long after
the composer of anthems has been crowded out of biographical dictionaries.

I have said that our knowledge of Purcell consists very largely of speculations, hypotheses
and inferences. These have led the biographers into wasting some highly moral reflections on
Purcell's early doings. We are told, for example, that he composed music for the theatre until
he became organist of Westminster Abbey, after which date he applied his energies wholly to
the service of the Church. Had the biographers not kindly followed the blind Hawkins and Burney,
and hearsay generally, those reflections might have been saved for a more fitting occasion.
It was long held that Purcell wrote the incidental music for Aureng-Zebe, Epsom Wells, and
The Libertine about 1676, when he was eighteen, because those plays were performed or published
at that time. It used to be said that the music, though immature, showed promise, and was indeed
marvellous for so young a man. But unless one possesses the touchstone of a true critical faculty
and an intimate acquaintance with Purcell's music and all the music of the time, one should
be cautious--one cannot be too cautious. The music for these plays was not composed till at
least fifteen years later. The biographers had also a craze for proving Purcell's precocity.
They would have it that Dido and Aeneas dated from his twenty-second year. If they had boldly
stuck to their plan of attributing the music to the year of the first performance of the play
to which it is attached, they might easily have shown him to have been a prolific composer
before he was born. The prosaic truth is that Purcell came before the world as a composer for
the theatre in the very year of his appointment to Westminster Abbey, and during the last five
years of his life he turned out huge quantities of music for the theatre. It is easy to believe
that his first experiments were for the Church. He was brought up in the Church, and sang there;
when his voice broke he went on as organist. Some of his relatives and most of his friends
were Church musicians. But Church and stage were not far apart at the Court of Charles, and,
moreover, the more nearly the music of the Church resembled that of the stage, the better the
royal ears were pleased. Pepys' soul was filled with delighted approval when he noticed the
royal hand beating the time during the anthem, and, in fact, Charles insisted on anthems he
could beat time to. Whilst "on his travels" he had doubtless observed how much better, from
his point of view, they did these things in France. There was nothing vague or undecided in
that curious mind. He knew perfectly well what he liked, and insisted on having it. He disliked
the old Catholic music; he disliked quite as much Puritan psalm-singing--that abominable cacophony
which to-day is called "hearty congregational singing." He wanted jolly Church music, sung
in time and in tune; he wanted secular, not sacred, music in church. But his taste, though
secular, was not corrupt--the music-hall Church music and Salvation Army tunes of to-day would
probably have outraged his feelings. His taste coincided with Purcell's own. Along with some
of the old-fashioned genuine devotional music, Purcell must have heard from childhood a good
deal of the stamp he was destined to write; he must often have taken his part in Church music
that might, with perfect propriety, have been given in a theatre. All things were ripe for
a secular composer; the mood that found utterance in the old devotional music was a dead thing,
and in England Humphries had pointed the new way. Purcell was that secular composer.

One spirit, the secular, pagan spirit, breathes in every bar of Purcell's music. Mid-Victorian
critics and historians deplored the resemblance between the profane style of the stage pieces
and the sacred style of the anthems and services. Not resemblance, but identity, is the word
to use. There is no distinguishing between the two styles. There are not two styles: there
is one style--the secular style, Purcell's style. Let us pause a moment, and ask ourselves
if any great composer has ever had more than one style. Put aside the fifth-rate imitators
who now copied Mozart, and now Palestrina, and could therefore write in as many styles as there
were styles to copy, and not one of them their own. There is no difference between the sacred
motets and the secular madrigals of the early polyphonists. Bach did not use dance-measures
in his Church music, but in the absence of these lies the entire distinction between his Church
and his secular compositions; the structure, manner and outlines of his songs are precisely
alike--indeed, he dished up secular airs for sacred cantatas. The style of Handel's "Semele"
and that of his "Samson" are the same; there is no dissimilarity between Haydn's symphonies
and the "Creation"; Mozart's symphonies and his masses (though the masses are a little breezier,
on the whole); Schubert's symphonies or songs and his masses or "The Song of Miriam"; Beethoven's
Ninth Symphony and the great Mass in D.

Purcell's style is largely a sort of fusion of all the styles in vogue in his lifetime. The
old polyphonic music he knew, and he was a master of polyphonic writing; but with him it was
only a means to the carrying out of a scheme very unlike any the old writers ever thought of--the
interest of each separate part is not greater than the general harmonic interest. Then, as
he admitted, he learnt a great deal from the Italians. From Lulli, through Humphries, he got
declamatory freedom in the bonds of definite forms, not letting the poet's or the Bible words
warp his music out of all reasonable shape. The outlines of his tunes show unmistakably the
influence of English folk-song and folk-dance. There was an immense amount of household music
in those days--catches, ballads, songs and dances. The folk-songs, even if they were invented
before the birth of the modern key-sense, were soon modified by it: very few indications can
be found of their having originated in the epoch when the modes had the domination; and the
same is true of the dances. The sum of these influences, plus Purcell's innate tendencies,
was a style "apt" (in the phraseology of the day) either for Church, Court, theatre, or tavern--a
style whose combined loftiness, directness, and simplicity passed unobserved for generations
while the big "bow-wow" manner of Handel was held to be the only manner tolerable in great music.

By 1680 Purcell's apprenticeship was at end. Early compositions by him had been published in
Playford's "Choice Ayres" in 1676 and 1679; in 1677 he had been appointed "composer (to the
King) in ordinary for the violin, in the place of Matthew Lock, deceased"; but none of the
highest official posts were his. And we must remember that official position was a very different
thing in Restoration times from what it is to-day. Nowadays the world is bigger and more thickly
populated, and men of intellect and genius scorn Court appointments and official appointments
generally. These are picked up by Court toadies, business-headed persons, men belonging to
well-connected families--the Tite Barnacles of the generation. The men of power appeal to the
vast public direct. In Purcell's day there was no vast public to appeal to. Concerts had scarcely
been devised; no composer could live by publishing his works. The Court, the theatre, the Church--he
had to win a position in one or other or all of these if he wished to live at all. So in 1680
Purcell the master passed over the head of his teacher, Dr. John Blow, to the organistship
of Westminster Abbey--that is, he was recognised as the first organist living. In the same
year he composed the first theatre pieces he is known to have composed--those for Lee's Theodosius.
(I disregard as fatuous the supposition that in his boyhood he wrote the Macbeth music attributed,
perhaps wrongly, to Locke.) It was not for some time that he gained the supremacy at the theatre
which he now held in the Church. That very trustworthy weathercock John Dryden, Poet Laureate,
continued to flatter others for many long days to come. In this same year he composed the first
of a long series of odes of welcome, congratulation or condolence for royal or great personages,
and about this year he married.

CHAPTER III

During the first ten years of his mastership Purcell composed much--precisely how much we can
only guess. It was not until 1690 that he began the huge string of incidental theatre sets
which were for so long spoken of as his operas. Mr. Barclay Squire, to whom all who are interested
in Purcell are deeply indebted, has clearly established that by 1690, though not more than
two years earlier, his one opera, Dido and Aeneas, was written. If we take this as belonging
to the period which began in 1690, we have for these first ten years only ten plays to which
he provided music, and of these several are very doubtful, and the rest not very important.
During the remaining six years of his life he wrote music for forty-two plays. Several sets
are of the greatest importance, amongst them Dioclesian, King Arthur, The Fairy Queen and The
Tempest.

We cannot tell how many of the anthems belong to this period. One might surmise that most of
them do, as his activity at the theatre later on must have occupied most of his time. But if
we had no dates for Mozart's three greater symphonies, we might readily fall into the mistake
of attributing them to another year than that of their composition, and the mistake would be
natural, if not inevitable, when we consider the enormous amount of music we know Mozart to
have written in 1788. In Purcell we find the same terrific, superhuman energy manifested as
the day of his death drew near, and perhaps we may be wrong in imagining that the theatre wholly
absorbed him. A few of the anthems may with great probability be ascribed to certain dates
because of the royal events with which they are connected. For example, two ("I was Glad,"
and "My Heart is Inditing") must have been written for the coronation of James II. in 1685.
For "the Queen's pregnancy" in 1688 another ("Blessed are They that Fear the Lord") was certainly
composed. The anthems for the Queen's funeral--and, as it turned out, for Purcell's own--can
also be dated in the same way, but they fall into a later period.

During these ten years fifteen odes were set, including the notable Yorkshire Feast Song, also
the music for "the Lord Mayor's show of 1682," and the Quickstep, which afterwards became famous
when the words "Lillibulero" were adapted to it. It was sung as a sort of war-song against
James II. In 1687 Purcell wrote an elegy on John Playford, the son of the publisher of the
same name.

It would be utterly impossible to determine the dates of upwards of 200 songs, duets, trios,
and catches, nor does it greatly matter. In a little book such as this we have little enough
space without going into these questions. The first sonatas in three parts are more important.
They were published in 1683, with a portrait of the composer at the age of twenty-four. Some
pieces for strings in from three to eight parts may be attributed to 1680. Some of the many
harpsichord things may also belong to this period.

We cannot follow Purcell's development step by step, year by year, as we can, for instance,
Beethoven's. When we come to survey his work as a whole, we shall be able to compare the three-part
sonatas issued in 1683 with the sonatas in four parts published in the year after his death.
We shall learn that towards the end of his life he was a more magnificent master, than he was
when twenty-four years old. That is the most we can see. We may observe ode after ode, it is
true, but with regard to them we ought to be able to take into account conditions and limitations
of which nothing is recorded nor can be known. This holds, also, with regard to the theatre
music. We can merely guess at what his employers asked him to provide. We can never know the
means they placed at his disposal. One significant thing must be noted here: the music itself--its
style, spirit, even mannerism--affords us no trustworthy clue as to when any particular piece
may have been written. For ages the biographical copyists have not ceased to marvel at a boy
of fourteen writing the Macbeth music. It is silly rubbish, with which I believe Purcell had
nothing whatever to do. They marvelled at the immature power latent in the music to The Libertine,
which they supposed he wrote in 1676. Alas! the date is 1692. They marvelled still more over
Dido and Aeneas, attributed to 1680. Alas! again its date is much later--1688 to 1690. The
evidence of style counts for little. The truth is that in Purcell's music there are no marked
stages of development, no great changes in style. Undoubtedly he gradually grew in power, richness
of invention, fecundity of resource; but the change was one of degree, not of kind. He never,
as Beethoven did, went out to "take a new road." He struck what he knew to be his right road
at the very beginning, and he never left it. His nature and the point in history at which he
appeared forbade that the content of his music should burst the form. The forms he began with
served him to the end.

I shall first deal with such of Purcell's compositions as may fairly be considered as having
been written before 1690. The music for the dramas is not of an ambitious character. It consists
mainly of songs, dances, and "curtain tunes." In many cases half a dozen items are all that
are attached to one play, and many of the pieces are brief. Therefore that formidable-looking
list of what used to be called Purcell's "operas" does not represent anything like the quantity
of music we might suppose. Purcell wrote only one opera--Dido. The word "opera" had not in
his day acquired a special meaning. Spectacular plays, with songs, duets, choruses, dances,
etc., were called entertainments or operas indiscriminately. Until a few daring inquirers investigated,
the world supposed Purcell to have collaborated with the playwrights. In a few later shows
it is true that he did, but some of the plays were written before he was born, some while he
was a boy, and others--later ones--are known to have been first given without the aid of his
music. The Indian Emperour was first played in 1665; Purcell added music in 1692. Tyrannic
Love was produced in 1668 or 1669; the music was added in 1694. The Indian Queen was produced
before The Emperour; the music was done in the last year of Purcell's life. If the Circe music
is indeed Purcell's, it cannot have been written until the author, Davenant, had been in his
grave seventeen years. If only the estimable ladies and gentlemen whose passion for writing
about Purcell has wrapped the real man in a haze of fairy tales had taken the preliminary trouble
of learning a little of the literature and drama of Purcell's day! Nay, had they only looked
at the scores of Purcell's "operas"! Then he left. Went without excitement, Posse, sentimentality.
Ching as a passer, the quiet assurance has one or someone who feels a joy in itself, is not yet
ripe, and become clear. Went like a body that one has become so distant and so familiar, so
that it even does a fabulous mental waste to even the comedy of a sadness to persuade. He felt that
he saw his uncle's shadow on a curtain glide of his, but this might be a mistake. He came into the
street. There stood a lantern, which had overturned a drunken driver once. He walked past her. Went
on and on. From a night-school children poured, and when he saw that she stood before a small bakery
with desire, he bought an armful of sticky stuff and threw it over her. He was hot when going fast.
For he ran over because he was not at all clear where he was going,
only that he remove, he knew, and that was enough.

He pulled from his overcoat and took him on the arm. It was dark. Lights flashed on, and he saw at
once a very light felt hat, which was compressed in a line up, a casual attitude and original
and a face with a cigarette, and he took his light coat, called the man and his friend gave
him the one who is often surprised and bowed "Very apt many times," she said. (He was Keybbell and
was the caprice of the hour is not unusual to subscribe model of a very young artist.) Then he ran
on and came to an advertising column, which was lighted brightly. At her decided his fate. He saw
a railing. A few letters to his so-called view. His stance was tightened with a jerk. He pushed
his legs apart and threw a peculiar movement of the right shoulder back and went from dark and
hot emotions flooded in the splashing rain, a small cloud into which
the silver sky quickly and shy nor überschwamm he thought.

That he was in a brilliant Paradox the negative of the sheath loss
equivalent to the positives of a newly donned psyche have made a certain
extent.

But he did not say it because it seemed to him the time of the cynical and witty glosses it over.
He thought briefly of a cigarette. But he set fire to no. Lit not to, but walked with his chest
puffed on large horizon. - - - The trip he made quietly in the steerage. Ten Russian Poland were
in the same room with him. It angered him that he had dinner with
a damp cloth over the nose band, because the smell was decided to.

For
him it was clear that it was worthless to his manners and habits in any pie throw in with. That it
was necessary, rather, instead of middle layer of uncertainty in two directions back and forth
to vary from one, from the very bottom here and without any condition the world to break through the
top. that he dismiss this Unskilled and everything would have to
kill And.

The wet cloth but taught him that as difficult to overcome the greatest
passions of the waiver was much more accustomed to human civilization.

But
he is not despondent. Three days later he took part in a greasy feast of Poland as a solo singer
in part. His baritone was so into something useless, and his method proved to be a rich future.
After five days, he played cards with daily Hamburger convicts, the transparent complexion
of their last residence had left. He already felt that he was increasing. He could not fall, because
he had no expectations. But his attitude and his hands on much more. He watched the progress
of the sailors, and one that has influenced his limb. He then dropped the friend a one bad habit,
the right foot for no reason in a small curve at every step of the reshar. He combined this note with the
sailor march and fell on no longer. His hands but seemed at once democratic, as he did a long
lunch for cleaning a machine verschmergelten generously lent. Longer time it circled a bearded
guy from Saxony and told him long stories misery in the way she knows
everyone.

He gave him two shillings and scarcely heard of him. But he saw at once that this action was foolish,
for once, and then others came back with the beard. There he also learned this: took the dog
and threw it greasy stairs the.

And now had respect. He also made reference to this life knowledge to complete the circle, these
days the first acquaintance with him unknown species animals. After two days He was quarantined in
New York. It did not disappoint, but it is not pressed him. Instead, he remained completely
indifferent to this city. For why should he greater enthusiasm or an extension of his soul procure
one, that here the dimensions were shifted to more high than usual He got into a train and rode until
he saw modest streets. There, he rented, and there he made the evening even his luggage. It
was first for him or the difficulty of the language because of the
school, he knew how hot modesty, and that wealth is not happy doing,
but take lawful award ticket for one to him his skills yet.

However, he soon found that safety demeanor and weigh more awareness as desultory knowledge. He seemed
to have a chance. Then he saw one night in the harbor a child who was crying. He dared not ask why.
He only gave him his supper, which he held in his hand, and drove
to Milwaukee the next morning, because this city had become repugnant.

He tried there in the known forms unterzukommen: as teachers, kindergarten teachers, fire insurance
agent. . . but without success.

He understood that these positions are sought to, just because they were known to beat, his
head, bought a blue linen suit and a nigger an oily cap and offered his service to the perfect mechanic,
chauffeur and mechanic. A manufacturer once asked: "Can you make Milchseparators?" He replied
that it was his specialty.

The next day he learned that there were sheet metal design with a simple mechanism, so that
on the one hand, the buttermilk, butter splash out on the other. He made the first day as much
as the minimum number of delivery had to be, and was for the piece five cents. As far as he presented
the first four weeks more ready. Every day he had a dollar. After four weeks, he complained that
the work is too hard. It creates stronger work than the others and therefore less. He controlled
and gave him seven cents for the piece. From that moment on, he made daily so much that he had
three dollars. After four months, we woke him at night. He stood up and asked. "Come on! quickly.
. ., "She told him. With four vans they raced through the city.

Finally, he smelled what was. Shortly after, he saw it too. A vast square houses was on fire. Fast cloths tied
to them with red stars around the arm, and they came across items of value: the safes and pianos
out. Nigger helped under the inspiration of rib joints. They gave him fifty dollars for it. He looked
at her silently. The spider was sitting on a paper ball, which was ten times as much. However: anyone
for only. Not for the spider. For him also in the sense and circumstance of his life from then.
He put the sum gently and reverently in his pocket. The next morning he went to the West, five
days stretched past him to land, the darkness howled at the wide window. He went to his luggage this
time, he shaved, talked to the people and read. In the corridors as he was walking under the lime
trees or on the Zeil. His whole act was breathing from a secure peace, but he felt that he, though
clearly and distinctly, in a feverish roar are the order it was everywhere. The acquaintances
of those days seemed interesting than any other (even though he knew many of the fascinating and
famous or significant as before were all about Blumenthal, who wrote
poetry, book covers and made a night of a full bar Statute, West Germany
flew).

He felt an initial sympathy for the people and destinies, to him at vorübersausten, he twitched
his fingers, knowing of what they cheerfully, where they ran, what
color, and illuminated it was up.

But he tried not to. It was not his time.

He cut through anything. Got out. A stake marked the station. A rotten crowd huts (as in cowering
consciousness, only to thank him the existence of stuck) around him. Some Indians sold braided belt
studded with mussels. Above them rose to a huge sky. Against he drove off, three days, the buffalo cart.
Towards evening they came to a powerful establishment, and as it
pleased him, he took position as the Cow-Boy.

The owner hit him on the shoulder and shook his hand. His wife nodded, too kind. The daughter did not see him.
She walked past him to the door so tight that her sleeves swept the dust from his shoulder. Raoul
thought that this was his position accordingly.

But after he had agreed smiled inwardly, he bit his teeth together, and saw that she had two heavy
braids and her neck with an elastic Despite hochtrug.

There are three ideals that the Cow-Boy knows: Revolver, Lazo, silk scarf. Moreover, they appear
as pigs. From hemp on the leather Seidenlazo come to, is the Gentkarriere of the Cow-Boy. But
there is something in its sheer inaccessibility immeasurably more precious. This is the Lazo of
braided horsehair. The Gaucho is rarely in his possession, although it is the longing of his
life because he drinks too much and shoots. For two years the longing of the day to give or to exchange
the fervor of a lifetime for this is one thing that is more complicated than the science or
size in the last go with death. The daughter of the owner but he had, and Helen was proud of it,
and behold: wide silver rings interrupted its course. The other Cow-Boy riding on later,
tethered and nodded to him. Some gave him the hand and took off his hat and said, with barely a kink
in the hips, "Heinz von clades. Get here, however, rarely addressed
with full title.

"The other looked stupid because he is German said. But Raoul loved him so yet, because although
he liked the originality of the situation, he said the humorous to the stylized form of the external
Verkrachtseins not.

However, he joined together with Jim, a cool guy. He said that he
in the moment about the rise in the height reached was that this
guy had.

       

Namely force, juiciness and a brightness of the eye, the things and especially the brilliant
sky and ready to wrest something was always secure. The next morning the Baron Raoul hated.
Raoul had not habit bareback to ride. As the baron took the bullet from a cartridge, put soap
into a stud horse and shot him in the stomach. Like a fountain integrally turned the animal flew into the
air and Raoul was sitting with a hard blow on the earth. Anger rose to his fists, but he entkrallte hands
again clasped his face in repose.

He knew he would ride better in a few days when the baron, and also felt this as a desire for action,
and overcome enforcement. But since the others were laughing and that was bad, he asked the baron, a bottle
with the hand horizontally to keep within twenty paces of him. He refused. Jim moved to his
riding gloves and held it, and Raoul is bluffing so that all respect and admiration in return,
he to his neck in and calmly shot the bottom out. And no one laughed more. After six years, he
found two miles from the farm a book. He picked it up. Longfellow: Hiawatha. . . Helen was standing
in front of the house and untied her braids. And he forgot himself and talked to her for the
first time, and against his will, without it, he felt, forms were plenty of dead on his back in, and
he said that he would have found a book and that he knew from his
early youth, rauschvoll as it was, and that he would bring her, because
he believed that she could only belong and fear that they would have
lost as a special feel this pain.

And here it is now. Then he discovered to their changing nature and their heavily dominated astonishment
that he had fallen back his old body in, or himself, in his new development rather have skipped.
He noted that in his raging, watched as she looked up. Felt him get on his body, cruel and slow
as mercury rises, until he met the direction of his eyes. Then she said, "Thanks." He did not come
for weeks on the farm of anger against him. He slept at night, worse than the others free in the grass,
on rocks, cursed and got drunk now and again. But they came to him. It came as a mistress, he
was very good. She was friendly, and he did not know how it should it arise. But she took him simply in
their way, pulled him forward as he spoke of Europe and Washington, however,
held in the two years she was interned in a boarding school, and
she spoke French and he responded well, but she never asked him who
he was and gave him light in between jobs, half wishes more pronounced
accent.

Once he saw the Baron to make deals where.

He pointed at him. She raised her little shoulders. How could I Accept them something. And Raoul
loved the Unrestricted such contempt and hatred they like it. Because it was him and the spirit of his
caste, sat in on him. In between, he tormented himself about the uncertainty of the relationship
between the gift of faith he had not purchased by (and the devil had to give undeserved sentiment
from above!) and the risk of Beiseitegeschmissenwerdens vibrated back and forth. There was a
day where they explained the matter by giving him their pride like a whip across his face slapped.
She had a bright mare in his herd discovered with very soft and delicate forms, and wished she
was missing but with their cord. Raoul she began with his hemp. At first she was pleased, patted
the trembling beast's neck, velvet, and seemed grateful to continue on in a crease in her forehead and
she drilled her with a haughty movement Lazo hinüberschnickte him
with sharpened voice said (and distorted lips): "You can have him.

There! He gave me is good but no more. "Since his boyhood he felt for the first time his face flushes
red fatal fall, he did not hand in the line, turned, rode it, without a word. Angry. Knew that
it was a goal, they have to win them. God, how he enjoyed the wound, which they seized him
as he was pleased that he was heruntergeschmissen respectful of their interests, in which all the action
was tied to him. Now everything was on the power of his hands. At this
time England was a relative of the owner of the farm. He had been in
New York shops and wanted to see the west.

He intended to stay for two three weeks, but after a few days was
very sick.

The usual practice failed. Raoul and Jim broke a rod from the fence and rode twenty-four hours
long. Then they were back. On a third horse, they had the doctor on the rod between the pharmacy. The disease
was not bad. Helen met Raoul in the hallway to her stall. Maybe she was waiting for him. She
was all white and seemed past him to want to. Then she remained standing and said in a voice
that was so controlled that the despair of every vowel and every
consonant wept and blew in with a cold that hardly marked the anger
that this had happened to their inaccessibility: the baron, she had
the night attack. . .

She stopped, for she felt that she did not know what they really wanted. And stuttered, but that
her father would have whipped the baron. . . but.. . No. . . that.
. . she could not tell him.

Raoul saw that it was from her anger against her father so to get small, because she kept her pride
by the possibility of such a thing ashamed alone, but he was not surprised and did not ask him why
they could say that. Provoked only an exchange of words, threw the noose over the Baron, and dragged it
a bit. Then he expected everything. On the same evening he heard a shot and the ball. Two days
later he rode on a bush. It was a shot. The bullet penetrated into the saddle. She had come forward
from the leg and he had touched. Despite all the pain he sought out the bushes, but found
nothing. But he felt that an end was not. The night before the pastures of the Baron rode, he took
lead, and paper and wrote to his uncle that he should he not be offended
that he now only get to write to him, he was very busy been, however,
and have the humble intention , his journey still continue for some
time.

It was the way in America, at least momentarily, in the event that the prairie temple was defaced.
But the current whereabouts is also irrelevant. He could also the wish of his uncle, for him to do
something that he's whole life was always in excess pressured not meet at all because it unfortunately
was not quite needs. Maybe he'll take but for his sake the little trouble to themselves, to
roof to crawl under it, if he knew where in his house located there
on the third roof the big spider web, but the spider to kill without
leaving a paper ball to and take value clarified to his friend Jim
to send their enclosed.

Namely Jim was a delightful man, gourmand, and wish for a hotel in the prairie unfold. Whereupon
Uncle entschlösse perhaps, the area once to inspect. Unfortunately,
he will probably (but who knows for sure!) Is no longer there, find
his nephew Raoul.

Then he walked on the morning after the horses. Again he met Helen. He had his shot in the
evening because of the pharmacy used. It is possible that it had noticed her. She was embarrassed
and had decidedly brown rings in the face. "Where. . .? "Raoul was an indefinable movement. Quite
aimlessly into the distance and size.

"Perhaps - and I wanted to say - you ride this time for my horse. I can not ride today and it should
not come out of the habit. . . and then (her hand appeared behind the back). . . then. .
. take it as well with my Lazo -? "Raoul hesitated. She:" I - please. "Raoul was riding from
the farm. Helens mare was the best horse in the area. How easy it Lazo was! The baron was waiting for
him restless. Lang they circled each other, chasing a large Pferdetroß.

The animals pushed their way in thick wedges between snorting it. They could not shoot. The Lazos
whipping the air. Suddenly, the horses pulled between an alley. The Baron broke through. Raoul
felt his blood flowed like needles his legs in under the pressure of the terrible press the touch
of Lazos, chest constricts his. As a package, he dashed to the ground. The arms were angeschnürt,
he could only move from the elbow of her. It was enough. Ere the enemy, proved to grind him,
he aimed, lifted high the knees, yelled something, Heinz Baron clades
shot a bullet right through his head.

Then he sat down on the grass and hit the legs together. This was because a duel in the sense of
the country. This was clear. He knew what wanted to say that Helen had borrowed horse Lazo and him. It would
be very rich again. Pah! But Helen was waiting for him when he rode to the south. And she was beautiful,
was proud. And this: he believed that he loved her. But it seemed to him that he had arrived
back then, where he started. No night sky would lure him over his bulge. The sky would be a wall around
it solidly built. Life would be nothing left for him to have Boost. He understood in a harrowing
moment that he claims ruined his life and was for this, because he and a rich set point with
a late, but had started with, and that only one stimulus and valuable in it is eternal: throw
themselves to higher and increase further, and he realized that this passage of time in this
only unbound and so on from below weiterstoßend be possible. A pain stabbed into him into the recording
that he and Helen hinausmüsse about his longing and love must overcome
her.

Her hair, neck, and the bleach, o especially the dyed their defiance and their shock. . . He
closed his eyes painfully, holding the eyelids long about it. Then he got up. He gave the mare
a slap on the rump that she was home alone snorting. He had a moment the knowledge that he now that
this poignancy about his life hang far out, the old and more weight-not
have to fear.

But immediately began to doubt whether all this, what agony of skill to braze is time and so, not
alone of a string of coiled loops there, which flow into each other repeatedly in Hochhinaufgerissenwerden
and fatigue. But he shook it off. Propped up, began with Helen Lazo a wild horse, tamed it and jumped
on it. The Lazo was white horses of dark hair and plaited and adorned with silver rings wide. Raoul
Perten rode to the north. And suddenly threw up his arms and rode the one that stood up hingereckt
when he conceive to eingliedernd, the momentum in an excessive and ordered the trapezoid Lazo in
powerful self-fulfilling ellipses his hands go to - -. . . and rode on a piece of heaven, like
a blue triangle between two hills and pointed into the horizon set off an immense, full of eternity,
and shimmering like a rotunda circled in riddles of pierced plate. leprous The forest Benoit de St.
More: historie Ceste n'est pas usee Jehan Bodel, Sire d'Arras rode through the forest. He was
riding a yellow mule, and carried no weapons other than the contempt damaskenischen small knife in
his belt. His arms hung let down on both sides of the saddle. After two hours it whistled sharply. Whizzed
a ball from a bush man down the slope in the bright sun. Some clubs were made of wood in his fists.
The foremost danced crouched in the same place constantly soar.

In his left hand turned a swirling instrument of iron, the other, whose fingers had crawled out
the meat from the ankle and a thick red crust was too, clutched an
old rusty sword.

All were terrible dirty rag cloth around his neck by.

Tumors and scars were eating through the faces of most.

Slowly rolled slightly the slope on all fours after them down, heaved with long white hair, stood
reverently hesitantly, his hands in admiration and buttons lifting, stretching two red empty
eye sockets in the middle of the piercing light. Jehan Bodel reached
for his knife.

It was too small.

His eyes spun around.

There was nothing in his hands. He took a step back and spat out in anger.
 Only
a few years ago the heroes of the music-hall menaced the Boers with unspeakable castigations
when only they could be persuaded to leave off unaccountably thrashing our generals; and when
Purcell wrote "Come if you Dare," and many another martial ditty, the time had not long passed
when Van Tromp sailed up the Thames with a broom at his mast-head. All the same, "Come if you
Dare" is a fine song; "Fairest Isles, all Isles excelling," is one of Purcell's loveliest thoughts,
and the words are more boastful than ferocious; "Saint George, the Patron of our Isle," is
brilliant and the words are innocuous. The masque element is not dumped into King Arthur altogether
so shamelessly as in other cases; the whole play is a masque. Although there is a plot, the
supernatural is largely employed, and nymphs, sirens, magicians, and what not, gave the composer
notable chances. In the first act, the scene where the Saxons sacrifice to Woden and other
of their gods, is the occasion for a chain of choruses, each short but charged with the true
energy divine; then comes a "battle symphony," noisy but mild--a sham fight with blank cartridge;
and after the battle the Britons sing a "song of victory," our acquaintance "Come if you Dare,
the Trumpets Sound." The rest of the work is mainly enchantments and the like. More fairy-like
music has never entered a musician's dreams than Philidel's "Hither this way," and the chorus
which alternates with the solo part is as elfin, will-o'-th'-wispish, as anything of Mendelssohn.
Mendelssohn is Purcell's only rival in such pictures. At the beginning of the celebrated Frost
Scene, where Cupid calls up "thou genius of the clime" (the clime being Arctic), we get a specimen
of Purcell's "word-painting":

This "word-painting," it must be noted, is of the very essence of Purcell's art, at any rate
in vocal music. Suggestions came to him from the lines he was setting and determined the contours
of his melody. He always does it, and never with ridiculous effect. Either the effect is dramatically
right, as here; or impressive, as in "They that go down to the sea in ships"; or sublime as
in "Full fathom five"; and whatever else it may be, it is always picturesque. The shivering
chorus was an old idea in Purcell's time, but the sheer power of Purcell's music sets his use
of it far above any other. All day Jehan sat back on his ottoman. The room was locked. Beautrix
knocked the morning after each stroke. She called crying Jehan names. She threw her body against the
door. She swore on the Provençal, who had thrown him on the plague. He did not listen. The
door creaked little.

On the following day and the following night was the door open to Jehan Bodel house. Nobody came.
Hardly anyone walked past. Towards evening Jehan looked through the bars. Beautrix lay stretched
before the door like a fine bright animal. Later, singer took a train foreign Breton through the
city. Your Red and violas sounded down.

After midnight voice said a baritone from the darkness hervorklingend under Jehan room the story
of Amis and Amile: They were blood brothers, nice, very similar,
and loved each other.

As tempted Amis, the daughter
of the emperor and was an ordeal , battle it out but Amile joined
him for one.

Amile won and you did not recognize him and gave him the princess as a woman. But because Amis
oestrus was lighter at them, he let it him to bed and was leprous as a punishment. But Americans
killed his two sons. bathed with their blood Amile was healthy. - - - Then the voice went,
the night drew on them, and in the morning offered a monk two boys for sale. From Jehan refused.
This morning worked Beautrix the door with a knife and peeled out
on Span Span .

But the door had a middle layer of iron. The blade broke off. As she lay down dully over the
threshold.

Towards evening she cut her fists against the door so long until
they had lost their hands, feeling it.

She saw the grid Jehan sit through. It seemed to him to look at his hands. Then she bit into the
metal of the jack and fell bleeding on the floor. The third night
came.

Well the door was on Jehan in the house.

She opened up, so open it was. Nobody came. The executioner? No. Night.
The night was so still that the darkness roared.

How. . . ? Silence, no sound came through the street. Once he got up. Beautrix lay across the door,
a blood groove on the chin. He saw it. Alone. . .

He also sat on the sofa that night between the columns. As the dawn had come, he rose. He went straight
to the door and opened it, Beautrix was gone. It was the first time
the fair.

Jehan
rubbed his face and hands with Ascalonian onions, the first infection
prevented.

He slowly walked out into the room of Beautrix.

He sniffed the white flowers in the niche. . . the fireplace. . .

The model of the great ship he had brought from Dijon. It felt like the parrot moved, saw the
carved wood of the buffet with the same rotation, and the paneling
and carpets from Palestine about it.

He lit candles on the wall, and they flashed. They reflected flickering in round metal plaques
and dusted the room with a thin layer of light, in which he is a view once again took up with. But
all was not sharp enough to create the new entsagensschwere depth
of his soul, cutting into, and he only felt as an aching left room
on the surface and regret, as in the back.

Then he opened the room in which it next to the dazzling body of Beautrix had located three months.
He opened it in a scribe, saw the unbeschlafene bed, saw the painful dawn of the window to burrow.
He inhaled the smell of one, and said himself before: Silver choke. . . HOT raised that moment
two girls in the neighboring home in a Reverie. It was brighter. Silver choke. . . He went
down to the stable. He passed on his mare's neck. She looked at him. Only then attacked him in
a small part of his brain once more conscious of what everything
fall away from him now.

He stepped back. A cry tore himself away in it. He
put his hand into the mouth of the mare. The broad shoulders twitching.
Laughter broke up for ever from his lips. Then he turned. At the
door he turned and struck the back and shoulders, as if the load too
heavy and that he also blot out of this, he went back to the animal
and killed it. Then he walked through the pale gray of the morning on the
streets. He passed contemptuously at the Pilori. His speckled chest
was open. All the bells began to ring. It was the time of Prim It was
bright as he walked across the market.

A priest came up with a mare on the place, sang and prayed aloud.

 The Indian Queen and Bonduca stand badly in need of careful
editing--not in the spirit of one editor of King Arthur who, while declaring that he had altered
nothing, stated that he had altered some passages to make them sound better. The Indian Queen
contains the recitative "Ye twice ten hundred deities" and the song "By the croaking of the toad."

Purcell's forms are not highly organised. There are fugues, canons, exercises on a ground-bass,
and many numbers are dances planned in much the same way as other people's dances, and songs
differing only in their quality from folk-songs. Of form, as we use the word--meaning the clean-cut
form perfected by Haydn--I have already asserted that there is none. This absence of form is
held to be a defect by those who regard the Haydn form as an ideal--an ideal which had to be
realised before there could be any music at all, properly speaking. But those of us who are
not antediluvian academics know that form (in that sense) is not an end, but a means of managing
and holding together one's material. In Purcell's music it is not needed. The torrent of music
flowing from his brain made its own bed and banks as it went. Without modern form he wrote
beautiful, perfectly satisfying music, which remains everlastingly modern. Neither did he feel
the want of the mode of thematic development which we find at its ripest in Beethoven. As I
have described in discussing the three-part sonatas, in movements that are not dances his invention
is its own guide, though we may note that he employed imitation pretty constantly to knit the
texture of the music close and tight. Many of the slow openings of the overture are antiphonal,
passages sometimes being echoed, and sometimes a passage is continued by being repeated with
the ups and downs of the melody inverted. Dozens of devices may be observed, but all are servants
of an endless invention.

The variety of the songs and recitatives is wondrous. Purcell was one of the very greatest
masters of declamation. In his recitative we are leagues removed from the "just accent" of
Harry Lawes. It is passionate, or pathetic, or powerfully dramatic, or simply descriptive (in
a way), or dignified, as the situation requires. "Let the dreadful engines" and "Ye twice ten
hundred deities" have, strange to say, long been famous, in spite of their real splendour;
and another great specimen is the command of Aeolus to the winds (in King Arthur)--"Ye blustering
breezes ... retire, and let Britannia rise." Did the human figure so far only a minor role in his pictures
only played, he was now painting the Venus, Cupid sends the (PL 12), and there arise a number of
portraits of old masters, first with the Venetians reminding of color. He began to model and participated
in a competition for a monument to the Swiss city of his father should be created in the 1444
Battle of St. Jakob in a glorious death were found in the. Finally, he dealt with the problem of
flying. Of course, he in Weimar in mood and in the middle of work
was if, then it could happen that a high visit was announced.

Remarks Greco
in Rome a thunderous laughter and ironic approbation found had café,
now had to listen quietly, without batting an eyelash, because they
are of high, people were very close to the prince.

One would think that Böcklin such as distress and inconvenience death could have been higher rated
not more so than the Grand Duke Karl Alexander really was a great man, the artist with the utmost respect
treated the, and also not otherwise brilliant people in the former Weimar was missing. Also Jak. Burckhardt
advised his friend to hold out. Böcklin But did the freedom of gypsy life, he believed Italian
landscape that can not any longer do without, the sight of his creative urge constantly stimulated
and what the main thing was, perhaps, his imagination had golden age kidnapped ins. Autumn
1861, he went with Begas to Genoa, "to the nose to put something
back in Italy", and now came a great job in his native city, the yield
for some time over water could hold him.

 In writing the flattened
leading note in one part against the sharpened in another he was merely following the polyphonists,
and it sounds as well--nay, as beautiful--as any other discord, or the same discord on another
degree of the scale.[2] This discord and his other favourites are beautiful in Purcell, and
his determination to let them arise in an apparently unavoidable way from the collisions of
parts, each going its defined road to its goal, must have determined the character of his part-writing.
In spite of his remarks in Playford's book, it is plain that he looked at music horizontally
as well as vertically, and constructed it so that it is good no matter which way it is considered. The
clay painting, the man created the mid-fifties, began in the circle of German artists and art lovers who had
gathered in Rome to attract very much attention, and found buyers, albeit at very modest prices.
The painter August Riedel, who for some time in Rome was established and enjoyed a great reputation,
has a particularly his advocacy service to Böcklin acquired by. Begas became friends at that time
for the life of him with, and Feuerbach was, as told Allgeyer, those terrors bordering on impression
of the art of an aspiring genius, the more he failed was himself, and joined also him to. In the memory
of the woman is the sale of the picture "centaur and nymph, located in Berlin's National gallery
is now (Plate 3), the first great success was her husband.

What Böcklin of Italian landscape, you had the first, was not the only lush richness of the vegetation,
but perhaps much more so the clarity of all forms.

The lines of the mountains at home probably had a big train, but the profiles
are still on the down of forests, orchards, grain fields and meadows
covered with. Tree dissolves as in the tree.

In the Campagna were still large areas uncultivated. Magnificent trees stood on bare soil, ancient
ruins, rocks and slopes, even every fold of the ground already, all lifted by sharp shadows and vividly
drawn clearly visible at long distances, sharp and precise on smooth surfaces. And Böcklin was
a sculptor, not only colourist. Early on, drawing his studies and painting before which Dreber
from the clear and the clarity of the overall impression that it closely, by the larger litter.
Thus the image of the Pontine Marshes, which he says has emerged as Dreber influence among themselves.
Gradually, however, had the interest play of light, the chiaroscuro, the stronger claims made.
He loved it at that time very much, when the clouds threw their shadows on the landscape and
the background of bright and dark areas changed against. He watched the flicker of light in humid
midday, the play of sun in the shade of the trees and the color was
submerged and floating in the hazy atmosphere.

He boasted later in a conversation with the many chic blue shadow tones of the Roman countryside.
If any Impressionist painting would be banned except, so you could actually pictures from the end
of this first stay in Rome for the best of his life to explain how a Bemäkler of the great man has done
it. At that time a very modern conception of nature were joined by the memories to the dawn
of time. He had the monuments of ancient Rome from his meager fare purchased a Latin grammar, given
in order to refresh their language skills. This may not have helped much, but it is significant.
Now dive next to the shepherds of the Campagna in his landscapes, the figures on the ancient legends.
Nymphs, alone or overheard faunas, faunal robbed of, and now: the Diana on the hunt and refreshing
to cool springs (Plate 5), these are the substances that it represents.
a "Pan in the forest" and an earlier version of that "Pan among the
reeds"

(Plate 6), the later has such a great sensation, too, is in Rome in 1856 already. Maybe even go
to the "Panic Terror" of the Schack Gallery (Plate 10 in early studies on its back) which he
honeymoon on the slopes above Palestrina has made to the. The fauns and nymphs give his magic forests
mood, but they are not in the degree, and later as the "Dragon in
the Rock Canyon"

(Plate 32), the expression of the forces of nature. While in the pictures of the last years
in Basel the desperate state of mind of that time was clearly expressed, is painting this time,
no deposition of the many needs to feel in the young husband who had to survive the.
 As Purcell left the anthems, so we must leave them--exquisite fragments that
we may delight in, but that are of no use in the service for which they were composed. Still,
this does not apply to them all; at least twenty of the finest are splendidly schemed, largely
designed, and will come into our service lists more frequently when English Church musicians
climb out of the bog in which they are now floundering. They are full, if I may use the phrase,
of pagan-religious feeling. Purcell's age was not a devotional age, and Purcell himself, though
he wrote Church music in a serious, reverential spirit, could not detach himself from his age
and get back to the sublime religious ecstasy of Byrde. He seizes upon the texts to paint vivid
descriptive pieces; he thrills you with lovely passages or splendours of choral writing; but
he did not try to express devotional moods that he never felt. A mood very close to that of
religious ecstasy finds a voice in "Thou knowest, Lord, the Secrets of our Hearts"--the mood
of a man clean rapt away from all earthly affairs, and standing face to face, alone, with the
awful mystery of "the infinite and eternal energy from which all things proceed." It is plain,
direct four-part choral writing, but the accent is terrible in its distinctness. At Queen Mary's
funeral (we can judge from Tudway's written reflections) the audience was overwhelmed, and
we may believe it. A more elaborately wrought and longer piece of work is the setting of the
Latin Psalm, "Jehova, quam multi sunt." It is the high-water mark of all Church music after
the polyphonists. By Church music I mean music written for the Church, not necessarily religious
music. The passage at "Ego cubui et dormivi" is sublime, Purcell's discords creating an atmosphere
of strange beauty, almost unearthly, and that yields to the unspeakable tenderness of the naïve
phrase at the words, "Quia Jehovah sustentat me." The Te Deum was until recently known only
by Dr. Boyce's perversion. Dr. Boyce is reputed to have been an estimable moral character,
and it is to be hoped he was, for that is the best we can say of him. He was a dunderheaded
worshipper and imitator of Handel. Thinking that Purcell had tried to write in the Handelian
bow-wow, and for want of learning had not succeeded; thinking also that he, Dr. Boyce, being
a musical doctor, had that learning, he took Purcell's music in hand, and soon put it all right--turned
it, that is, into a clumsy, forcible-feeble copy of Handel. One could scarcely recognise Purcell
so blunderingly disguised. However, we now know better, and the Te Deum stands before us, pure
Purcell, in all its beauty, freshness, sheer strength, and, above all, naïve direct mode of
utterance. It looks broken, but does not sound broken. Purcell simply went steadily through
the canticle, setting each verse as he came to it to the finest music possible. The song "Vouchsafe,
O Lord," is an unmatched setting of the words for the solo alto, full of very human pathos;
and some of the choral parts are even more brilliant than the odes. At this line, the modern world
is divided into two camps. In their battle rages, the social in all
its awfulness.

But
as the social order as it exists today, a hundred, maybe thousands of fabric
is old, one must ask why the one camp of humanity in his misery,
his oppression, his the preferred situation of the other so long endured suffering,
has no sustainable, education, violence intervention make one. A state
that so obvious nature of the injustice in itself contributes to,
had to the more revolutionary challenge to, as the numerical superiority
at all times to be side of the disenfranchised was.

If they were not sufficiently penetrated their right, the right to bread and warmth, to air and
light? If you have saved them spectacles of pomp? Did they not know what was available? Did not
the privileged in their arrogance and their hardness? So why the patience? Some will answer:
about the violence on the rich side was because they could pay for the violence, and among those
who were paid, were the enemy from the camp, which betrayed their brothers, just because they
paid for.

Others will say: therefore, a tiefbedachtes, refined and ancient system of intimidation, stunning
and stupefying the masses of the oppressed has held since spell, and because also the concern for the
day, the urgent need to shelter, food and clothing to raise the bulk
of available forces absorbed.

It is a piece of the truth, but it is not the whole truth. It is the external truth, but not the inner take.'s
Say it would be now completely fair and equal distribution of all available goods instead of
one, movable and immovable; would be any more independent secured, the work of voluntary action,
the possibility of his share after his gifts and powers to make available.


They should be played in a small room, and the pianist--for harpsichords are woefully scarce
to-day--should fill in his part from the figured bars simply with moving figurations, neither
plumping down thunderous chords nor (as one editor lately proposed) indulging in dazzling show
passages modelled on Moscheles and Thalberg. Properly played, no music is more delightful.

CHAPTER V

It is impossible to touch on more than a few characteristic examples of Purcell's achievement.
There are many charming detached songs; the Harpsichord Lessons contain exquisite things. There
is also a quantity of unpublished sacred and secular music of high value.

When Purcell died, on November 21, 1695, he was busy with the music for Tom d'Urfey's Don Quixote
(part iii.), being helped by one Eccles, who enjoyed a certain mild fame in his day. The last
song, "set in his sicknesse," was a song supposed to be sung by a mad woman, "From rosy bowers."
The recitative is magnificent; two of the sections in tempo are fine, especially the second;
the last portion is meant to depict raving lunacy, and does so. It is by no means one of Purcell's
greatest efforts, and he apparently had no notion of making a dramatic exit from this world.
If the doctors knew what disease killed him, they never told. The professional libeller of
the dead, Hawkins, speaks of dissipations and late hours: and he would have us believe that
he left his family in poverty. You make fun about my professorial tone, I see. I pick him on purpose,
because I choose between passion and practicality have none, and if I do not want to appear enthusiastic,
I must be dry. "I'm not mocking me. Proceed only. ""

It takes little perspicacity to see it too, that love has two main
sources: a basic and an ethical, a sensual and a moral.

Looking at the more trivial forms of love, it turns out that it applies only to a single set
of those properties is always fast. We then have the love from passion or the love of sensuality,
or the selbstentäußernde love or sentimental love, or the restless, unsatisfied love. The variations
are countless, of course, for example, if the man and the woman a sensual love cherishes a divinizing or
vice versa, or if the man and the woman unsatisfied, restless selbstentäußernd loves, and so
on. In most cases it will be such that the sharpest contrasts coincide precisely. With the variation
begins already in conflict, and where conflicts are is no resistance. The great love knows no conflicts,
you can find at a place of perfect balance. Everything Differentiated united to the harmony and beauty.
A distinctive advantage will never be isolated and never act without counterpart, only the opposite,
in an affirmative sense, virtue, brings one to the development: as grace is the condition for the spirit,
kindness, strength, nobility, bravery. In the great and only love in it, turned the man, and he will speak
his ideal limits extended to. He is a state of demonic, or to use your expression in, of possession. All
and all Tangible Visible only has a single reference, he is everywhere and in all, the parable
with the object of his love, in music and in poetry, in the passing
clouds, in the rustling of the trees, in the contemplation of a picture
of a flame , a stone, the flight of birds and humans routes have for
him the same misty distance, and yet he has everything in it and nothing
except himself, he is on every side against the world open and no
more of it touched, he is the kindest friend, the participating partner
and yet the lover in the universe alone.

What at first to enraptured has their thing, we say a special curvature of the forehead, a special way
to lift the lids or to shake hands, a tone of voice, a rhythm of the step, a smile, a gesture that
is anything universal law , that is: so go once and for all the people, they say, they look, they shake
hands, the whole picture of existence is a fixed image of beauty. In the great love that is is all
positivity, and it everything is in its infinite and eternal. You can never stop, therefore,
neither the one nor the other. Only the death of her can put an end, an end that the deepest meaning,
of course, is an apparent and must be. Fortune or misfortune for them to come out of the question,
her tragedy is elsewhere, so it is the only life form that has an inborn tragedy, and this tragedy
is for them not only in the possibility, but also in the necessity of destruction, death decided.
The love knows no danger and threat than death. From the first moment of love, death stands as
the silent guardian formally made public next to it. Very beautiful is the love in Shakespeare's
tragedy brought to view: everything strives from the beginning to the death of the imperative
with which it occurs, secretly governs every event. And differences of genres to refer to the 'Romeo
is before the big Entetement occurs in a common love of nature involved. "" Where are you taking
me there, my dear, "sighed Faustina. "The promised land for people like us that love is not
reachable. This one would have an extra star for having the world come. "" Yes, as to everything
great, "I replied." Do you think, seriously, that it really is such a love? "I had to smile, because
her question was something of the naivete of a child.
 Rightly regarded, Purcell's monument is
anything but sterile. Felix Mottl, worried to exasperation by stale laments for Mozart's premature
death, once lifted up his voice and thanked God for Mozart, the Heaven-sent man. In the same
spirit we may be thankful for Purcell. In his music we have the full and perfect expression
of all that was fair and sweet and healthy in this England of ours; "all thoughts, all passions,
all delights," that our English nature is capable of find a voice in his music--if only we
will take the trouble to listen to it. He is neglected, it is true, but he is immortal: time
is nothing: he can wait. If our age neglects him, his age neglected Shakespeare. Shakespeare's
time came; Purcell's cannot be for ever delayed.

LIST OF WORKS.

Music for over fifty dramas, including Dioclesian (1690), King Arthur (1692), Bonduca, The
Indian Queen, and The Tempest (1695).

Over two hundred songs, duets, catches, etc.

Twelve sonatas of three parts (1683), ten of four parts (published 1697). Harpsichord Lessons
(published 1696). A number of fantasias for strings.

About one hundred anthems; a quantity of sacred music apparently not for Church use; Te Deum
and Jubilate in D; complete service in B flat; evening service in G minor.

EDITED BY
G.C. WILLIAMSON.
GRIEG.       By E. MARKHAM LEE, M.A., MUS.D.
HANDEL.      By W.H. CUMMINGS, MUS.D., F.S.A.,
             Principal of the Guildhall School of Music.
HAYDN.       By JOHN F. RUNCIMAN.
MENDELSSOHN. By the late VERNON BLACKBURN.
MOZART. This itself was the interest of the artist
             and the audience of the kind drawn to how
a complaint was resolved artistically.
Böcklin Also,
the repeated motif is transformed the same to
such high perfection reached by
it.

Others to follow.

LONDON: GEORGE BELL & SONS.

