     And the monk answered, "All I have
     In this poor cell of mine I give,
     The silver cup my mother gave;
     In Christ's name take thou it, and live."

     Years passed; and, called at last to bear
     The pastoral crook and keys of Rome,
     The poor monk, in Saint Peter's chair,
     Sat the crowned lord of Christendom.

     "Prepare a feast," Saint Gregory cried,
     "And let twelve beggars sit thereat."
     The beggars came, and one beside,
     An unknown stranger, with them sat.

     "I asked thee not," the Pontiff spake,
     "O stranger; but if need be thine,
     I bid thee welcome, for the sake
     Of Him who is thy Lord and mine."

     A grave, calm face the stranger raised,
     Like His who on Gennesaret trod,
     Or His on whom the Chaldeans gazed,
     Whose form was as the Son of God. 

     At each end is a phrase that basically is to, one
     another, permits the inference
     that drawn is that from, and finally
     the conclusions (conclusion), after which the truth of the latter,
the truth of the former is linked with the inevitable. If the closed
sentence so in the first, that third performance derived from it
can be a negotiation without, this means the final directly (consequentia
immediata), I did want to better understanding final call.

     But if, in addition to the laid at the foundation
     knowledge, nor a Another ruling necessary
     to bring about the result, this means
     the final one syllogism. In the proposition that all men are mortal, are
already the sentences: some men are mortal, or some mortal man, or
nothing that is immortal, is a man, and these are therefore immediate
conclusions from the former.

     On the other hand is the sentence: all the
     scholars are mortal, not in the untergelegten
     judgments (because the concept of the
     scholars is not in him at all) and he can only by means of an interlocutory
this will be concluded.

     In every syllogism I first think
     a rule (major) by the mind. Secondly,
     I subsume a cognition under the
     condition of the rule (minor) by means of Judgement. Finally, I determine
my cognition by the predicate rule (conclusio) therefore a priori
by reason.

     The relationship, therefore,
     that the major premise, rather than the
     rule, a knowledge and their condition presents
     between, making the different types Vernunftschluesse from. So they are
just three, like all judgments at all, unless they are the species
differ in how they express relationship of cognition in the understanding
that, namely: categorical or hypothetical, or disjunctive Vernunftschluesse.

     
     
     If, as happens mehrenteils, the conclusion
     as a verdict had been abandoned, to see whether it is not already
given judgments by namely a completely different object is thought,
flow on, then I look in the understanding the assertion finale to
this, if they are not the same under after a general rule, some found
in.

     I find now, such a condition and lets the object of final sentence in
the given condition subsumed, then this rule, the other fields of
the knowledge is, for inferred from.

This shows: that the reason in closing the wide variety of knowledge
of the understanding to the smallest number of principles (general
conditions position) and thus the highest unit looking to effect the
same.

     C. From the pure use of reason can we isolate
     reason, and is it then still
     a separate source of concepts and judgments
     that arise from it only, and it relates to items by, or is it merely
a subaltern fortune, given a knowledge to give some form, which is
called logical, and thus understanding knowledge only each other and
low rules other higher the (their condition, the condition of the
former) deals subordinate sphere are their in, as much by the comparison
of them wants to accomplish?

     This is the question with which
     we deal now only provisionally.
     In fact, diversity of rules and principles
     of unity of a claim of reason to the understanding, even in continuous
connection to make with how the mind the manifold of intuition under
concepts and created so those linkage 'brings.

But such a principle requires objects no law before, and do not contain
the reason for the opportunity to recognize them even any as and to
determine, but is merely a subjective law of the household with the
store of our understanding, by comparison its terms, the general use
of them on the smallest number to get the same without you so objects
themselves such unanimity, the leisurely pace of the expansion of
our understanding do feed, and to demand the of, and also to give
objective validity of that maxim, entitled would be.

     In a word, the question is whether
     reason, Di pure reason to
     a priori synthetic principles and
     rules contained the, and what principles are they like? The formal
and logical procedure of that gives us Vernunftschluessen about this already
sufficient guidance on what ground the transcendental Prinzipium same
in synthetic knowledge of by reason based'll clean in.

     First, is the syllogism does not opinions,
     about the same to bring under
     rules (how the mind with its categories), but
     on concepts and judgments. Thus, if pure reason belongings to go, it does have
it and their views have no direct relation, but only on the understanding
and its judgments, which is initially to the senses and their intuition
, turn to the subject to determine that their. unity of reason is
not so unity of a possible experience, but from this, when the mind
unity, differ substantially.

     The fact that everything that happens,
     the cause was one, is not
     a by reason of detected and the establishment
     principle. He makes the unity of experience possible and borrows nothing
from reason, which without this on possible experience, from mere
absence of such synthetic unity would have command can notions relationship.

     
     
     Second, reason seeks in its logical use of the general condition of
their sentence (the finale) and the syllogism is itself nothing more
than a sentence or condition by means of the subsumption of its under
a general rule (major premise).

Now,
     this rule again the very same tests of reason is exposed, and thus
the condition of the condition (by means of a Prosyllogismus) sought
must be as long as it is concerned, one can see well, peculiar principle
of reason in general the (in logical use) is the conditional knowledge
of the understanding the unconditioned to be found: with which the unit
of it is completed. This logical maxim but can not a principle of
pure reason to be otherwise than by supposing that, if the conditioned
is given, it is also the whole range of mutually subordinate conditions, and
therefore even necessarily, given, (ie the object and its linkage
'contained in).

     One such principle of pure reason
     is obviously synthetic, for the conditioned
     relates analytically true in any condition,
     but not risk unconditioned. It must also different from the same
synthetic sentences arise, of which the pure mind knows nothing, as the
only objects of a to do your utmost experience, knowledge, and their
synthesis is due any time.

     The unconditional but, if it really takes
     place, may be considered especially after
     all the provisions, of any contingent distinguish,
     and thus must be substance to some a priori synthetic sentences .
spend this supreme principle of pure reason, but the principles are springing
in respect of all appearances to be transcendent, that is, it is adequate
empirical use of the same can be ever made him no. It is, therefore,
of all the principles of reason (whose use completely immanent is by
the opportunity to experience their subject only) to be completely different.
Whether that principle: that the series of conditions (in the synthesis
of phenomena, or even of thinking of things at all,) extends to the
unconditioned, objective correctness have his, or not to be learned
from the empirical use of understanding to flow on, or whether it
rather not like objektivgueltigen reason sentence there everywhere,
but a mere logical rule in the advancement to higher and higher conditions,
the same to approach completeness of, and thus the highest we can
to reason unity of knowledge to bring to our, whether, I say, this
need of the reason through a misunderstanding for a transcendental
principle of pure reason has been held that such an unlimited completeness
uebereilterweise the series of conditions in the objects themselves
postulated, which this case for misinterpretation and delusions in
the Vernunftschluesse whose major premise of pure reason put been
in also (and perhaps more petition as a postulate, however,) and the
experience up on their terms rise of, creep like: that is our business
the transcendental dialectic be what we now sources are hidden deep
within reason, to develop the human out of her.

     We will divide into two center piece, the first
     of the transcendental concepts
     of pure reason, the second of transcendent
     and dialectical Vernunftsschluessen should act the same.

     
     
     The transcendental dialectic First
     Book of the concepts of pure reason, what does it even with the possibility
of the concepts of pure Reason for who may Bewandtnis one: so they are
not merely reflected, but closed terms. concepts of understanding
are a priori experience, and for the sake of the same thought too,
but they contain nothing more than the unity of reflection about the
phenomena in that they possible empirical consciousness necessary
to belong to one.

     
     
     Through it alone is knowledge and
     determination of an object possible. So first they give substance
to close, and, on items are no a priori concepts of before, from
which they could be closed.

     On the other hand based their objective
     reality but only this:
     that because they constitute the intellectual
     form of all experience, their application experience has shown to be
in any can. The appointment of a concept of reason, however, already shows
temporary: that he is not the experience would in be restrictive,
because he finding relates to one of the empirical only part of each,
(perhaps the whole of the possible experience or their empirical synthesis)
but until then no real experience ever completely suffices, but is
accompanying any time. rational concepts used to understand how concepts
of understanding to understanding (the perceptions).

     If they contain the unconditioned, they
     relate to something, by which
     experience it every which itself but never an
     object of experience is a: something that the reason their conclusions
from the experience leads in, and according to which it reckons the
degree of their empirical use and abmisst but never a member of the
empirical synthesis accounts.

     If such notions notwithstanding,
     objective validity, they can
     conceptus ratiocinati (properly
     closed terms) are called, if not, they are at least a semblance of
closure by surreptitiously, and may conceptus ratiocinantes ( terms)
are called sophistical.

     As this in which the dialectical inferences
     of pure reason identified can
     be center piece of first place
     but, as we can to not paying attention yet, but are preliminary, as
we the pure concepts of understanding mentioned categories, the concepts
of pure reason with a new name and prove transcendental ideas call
them, but now explain and justify this designation.

     
     
     The first book of the transcendental
     dialectic First Section of the ideas generally in the great richness of our language
is found but often the thinking head of the expression because of
embarrassment, of its concept fits well, and he does not want of
others, nor even to themselves rather be.

     New words may be understandable to forge in which is an arrogance
to the legislature in languages which is rare, and before it proceeds
to this desperate means, is it advisable in a dead language and learned
to look, if there is not this concept will find its proper expression
together, and when the old Unbehutsamkeit use by their authors also would
be staggering become something of it, so it's better, the importance
peculiar to him was excellent, fix, (it should also remain doubtful
whether at that time exactly very same had had the sense in,) as his
business because only spoil that one incomprehensible made.

On this account, if, for example, to a certain notions only a single word
vorfaende, the imported meaning to this concept fit perfectly already
in, its distinction from other related concepts is of great importance,
it is advisable not to deal with wasteful, or just for a change, synonymous
instead of using other, but his peculiar significance aufzubehalten
his carefully, because otherwise leichtlich happens that after the
expression of attention is not particularly busy, but under the pile
of others of very different importance, loses the thought is lost,
he would have preserved can alone.

     
     
     Plato used the term idea so that you can see well,
     he had such little understood, which in itself never mad borrowed is
not him but that the terms of the understanding with which concerned
himself, Aristotle, far exceeds even by the experience Never give
anything so congruent is encountered.

     Ideas are with him archetypes of things themselves,
     and not only key to potential experience, as the
     categories. In his opinion, they flowed from the highest
     reason, from there they have been bestowed upon the human, which is no
longer in their original condition is now, but Muehe the old, now
very dim, ideas by memory (which means) philosophy back to needs.

     I will here no literary study engage in, to point
     to identify the one sublime philosopher with
     his prints joined the. I see only that there
     is nothing unusual had done, both in ordinary conversations, as in writings
by the comparison the thoughts which the author about his subject
uttered by one, to understand him even better than he himself understood
by his concept is not sufficiently specific, and thus sometimes own
intention contrary to his talking, or even thought.

     
     
     Plato said very well that our cognitive powers a much
     larger guest requirements feel merely phenomena by synthetic unity spell
as to them can read as experience, and that our reason naturally to insights
soar to go much further than that some object to give can experience
the ever them congruent with skill, but which nonetheless have their
reality and not mere fantasies are.

     Plato found his ideas chiefly in practically
     everything that is *, ie, based on freedom, which
     in turn due to intelligence, is the peculiar product
     of reason are one.

     Who are the notions of virtue creators presence
     would experience, identify the things only as to
     the imperfect Explanation of serve can sample
     at most, as samples do want knowledge source for the (many have
done really like), which would of virtue one time and circumstances convertible
to, not usually useful to make ambiguous nonsense. On the other hand, each
one is aware that if someone had the virtue is presented as a model,
but it always true original in his own head was bare, which he alleged pattern
compares this, and it only reckons afterwards. This is the idea of
virtue, in respect of which all possible fields of the experience as
examples, (evidence of the expediency of that, to some degree, which begs
the concept of reason,) but do not do as archetypes services. That
a man would never act to that work fine, which the pure idea of virtue
contains proof, not something chimerical in this thought. For it is
nevertheless everything verdict about the moral value or otherwise,
only possible by means of this idea, therefore it is of any rapprochement
at the foundation necessary for moral perfection, as far as the their
Grade to be determined not by obstacles in human nature from us may
think. * He extended his term course on speculative findings, even
if it is purely and completely a priori were given only about the
mathematics even if they like their subject of nowhere otherwise
than in of possible experience.

     In this I can not follow him now, any more than in the mystical
     deduction of these ideas, or exaggerations,
     because he, as it hypostatized them, although the high level
     language which he employed in this field, a more lenient and reasonable
interpretation of the nature of things is probably quite capable.

     
     

THE BROWN DWARF OF RUGEN.

The hint of this ballad is found in Arndt's Murchen, Berlin, 1816. But among the imaginary two types
of synthetic a priori sentences can, the habitual use of speech, only the proper name for the
philosophical insights to lead, and it would hardly be the theorems of arithmetic, geometry or call
dogmas. 

     Nevertheless, if this subject externally as an object of
     intuition, is considered, it would surely composition
     in appearance to indicate. Is how it must always be considered but,
if you want to know whether he was in a manifold outside of each
other or not.

     The third antinomy of pure reason, conflict of transcendental
     ideas Thesis The causality according to laws
     of nature is the only one from which the phenomena of the world as
a whole can be derived not.

     
     
     Proof Suppose there is no other causality than after laws of nature, so does
everything that happens presupposes a previous state, to which it
inevitably follows a rule.

 

     But it is all perception of the pure intuition (in respect of their
     performances
     as the form of inner intuition, time), the Association of
     the pure synthesis of imagination, and your empirical sense of the pure
apperception, ie, the continuous identity of his own at all kind
ideas, a priori at the foundation. If we wish to base the internal linkage
'performances until that point to pursue this, in which they must
all come together in order to first of all to knowledge of a possible
experience to get the unit, we should collect from the pure apperception
. start all views are nothing for us, and we are not in the least
about something when they can be incorporated into the consciousness
not as they might now be incorporated directly or indirectly on it,
and only through this knowledge alone is possible.

     
     
     We are a priori the continuous identity of ourselves
     in respect of all representations of knowledge ever belong can we,
the conscious, as a necessary condition of possibility for all ideas (because
in me by something only imagine that everything else in a sense belong
to, Therefore, it can be linked must at least).

     This principle is a priori fixed, and can the transcendental
     principle of unity of multiplicity
     of our ideas (and hence also in intuition), everything
     hot. Now is the unity of the diverse subject synthetic: one that is available
in pure apperception a principle of synthetic unity of the manifold
in all possible intuition to the hand *.

     * Give this sentence good care of great importance
     is. All ideas
     have a necessary relation to a possible empirical
     consciousness: because they allegedly this not, and would it be totally
impossible to be aware of their, so would say so much, they did not
exist. all empirical consciousness has a necessary relationship to a transcendental
(in particular all previous experience) consciousness, namely the awareness
of my own , as per initial apperception.

     So it is absolutely necessary that in all my knowledge
     to a conscious awareness
     (my own) as putting.
      

     Because without them we would not the ideas of space,
     nor time can have a priori:
     since only synthesis of the diverse, which presents
     the sensuous receptivity in the original, produced by these can be her.
 

     These experiments tell us that the injurious effect of
     a nutrient solution,
     the paramecium long remain, solely due to the fact
     that substances accumulate in the nutrient solution, the animals
produce their own metabolism in # #.

     He kissed her cheek, he kissed her lips; the Brown
     Dwarf groaned to see,
     And tore his tangled hair and ground his long
     teeth angrily. 

     So transition happens each from one state to another
     in a time when
     the moment is contained between two, the first of which
     provides the state from which the thing goes out and the second that in which
it passes. 

     Now he shares the exterior of these angles by line with
     the opposite
     side of the triangle draws a parallel, and provides
     that to say a contact angle sprang from one, the inner one is the same,
etc.