It is a direct and certain means of letting the public know what you are doing. Stillgericht, s.
Femgerichte.

Stilling, writer, young s. 2).

Stillingia L. (Talgbaum), genus of the family Euphorbiaceae, mostly shrubs with alternate, entire leaves,
terminal flower spikes and dreisam capsules. S. sebifera Michx. (Exoecaria sebifera J. trash., P.
board "oils and fats supplied plants"), a small tree with long-stalked, broad rhombic-ovate, entire leaves
and large, spherical-elliptical capsule has, hazelnut, black seeds, which with Talgarten
fat are surrounded. It is native to China and Japan, and is in East and
West India, North America, Algeria and southern France cultivated there,
and returns the Chinese tallow. By pressing the envelope of the fat liberated
from seeds obtained fatty oil.
 So long as the city was made up of such neighborhood units,
each with a full outfit of butchers, bakers, clothiers, jewelers, furniture dealers and shoemakers,
it was possible for the proprietors of these little establishments to exist and make a profit.

But as population increased, transit facilities spread, sections became specialized, block
after block was entirely devoted to stores, and mile after mile became solely occupied by homes.

The purchaser and the storekeeper grew farther and farther apart. It was necessary for the
merchant to find a substitute for his direct personality, which no longer served to draw customers
to his door. He had to have a bond between the commercial center and the home center. Rapid
transit eliminated distance but advertising was necessary to inform people where he was located
and what he had to sell. It was a natural outgrowth of changed conditions--the beginning of
a new era in trade which no longer relied upon personal acquaintance for success.

Something more wonderful than the fabled philosopher's stone came into being, and the beginnings
of fortunes which would pass the hundred million mark and place tradesmen's daughters upon
Oriental thrones grew from this new force. Within fifty years it has become as vital to industry
as steam to commerce.

Advertising is not a luxury nor a debatable policy. It has proven its case. Its record is traced
in the skylines of cities where a hundred towering buildings stand as a lesson of reproach
to the men who had the opportunity but not the foresight, and furnish a constant inspiration
to the young merchant at the threshold of his career.

The Cannon that Modernized Japan

Business is no longer a man to man contact, in which the seller and the buyer establish a personal
bond, any more than battle is a hand-to-hand grapple wherein bone and muscle and sinew decide
the outcome. Trade as well as war has changed aspect--both are now fought at long range.

Just as a present day army of heroes would have no opportunity to display the individual valor
of its members, just so a merchant who counts upon his direct acquaintanceship for success,
is a relic of the past--a business dodo.

Japan changed her policy of exclusion to foreigners, after a fleet of warships battered down
the Satsuma fortifications. The Samurai, who had hitherto considered their blades and bows
efficient, discovered that one cannon was mightier than all the swords in creation--if they
could not get near enough to use them. Japan profited by the lesson. She did not wait until
further ramparts were pounded to pieces but was satisfied with her one experience and proceeded
to modernize her methods.

The merchant who doesn't advertise is pretty much in the same position as that in which Japan
stood when her eyes were opened to the fact that times had changed. The long range publicity
of a competitor will as surely destroy his business as the cannon of the foreigners crumbled
the walls of Satsuma. Unless you take the lesson to heart, unless you realize the importance
of advertising, not only as a means of extending your business but for defending it as well,
you must be prepared to face the consequences of a folly as great as that of a duelist who
expects to survive in a contest in which his adversary bears a sword twice the length of his own.

Don't think that it's too late to begin because there are so many stores which have had the
advantage of years of cumulative advertising. The city is growing. It will grow even more next
year. It needs increased trading facilities just as it's hungry for new neighborhoods.

But it will never again support neighborhood stores. Newspaper advertising has reduced the
value of being locally prominent, and five cent street car fares have cut out the advantage
of being "around the corner." A store five miles away, can reach out through the columns of
the daily newspaper and draw your next door neighbor to its aisles, while you sit by and see
the people on your own block enticed away, without your being able to retaliate or secure new
customers to take their place.

It is not a question of your ability to stand the cost of advertising but of being able to
survive without it. The thing you have to consider is not only an extension of your business
but of holding what you already have.

Advertising is an investment, the cost of which is in the same proportion to its returns as
seeds are to the harvest. And it is just as preposterous for you to consider publicity as an
expense, as it would be for a farmer to hesitate over purchasing a fertilizer, if he discovered
that he could profitably increase his crops by employing it.

The Tailor who Paid too Much

I was buying a cigar last week when a man dropped into the shop and after making a purchase
told the proprietor that he had started a clothes shop around the corner and quoted him prices,
with the assurance of best garments and terms.

After he left the cigar man turned to me and said:

"Enterprising fellow, that, he'll get along."

"But he won't," I replied, "and, furthermore, I'll wager you that he hasn't the sort of clothes
shop that will enable him to."

"What made you think that?" queried the man behind the counter.

"His theories are wrong," I explained; "he's relying upon word of mouth publicity to build
up his business and he can't interview enough individuals to compete with a merchant, who has
sense enough to say the same things he told you, to a hundred thousand men, while he is telling
it to one. Besides, his method of advertising is too expensive. Suppose he sees a hundred persons
every day. First of all, he is robbing his business of its necessary direction and besides,
he is spending too much to reach every man he solicits."

"I don't quite follow you."

"Well, as the proprietor of a clothes shop his own time is so valuable that I am very conservative
in my estimate when I put the cost of his soliciting at five cents a head.

"Now, if he were really able and clever he would discover that he can talk to hundreds of thousands
of people at a tenth of a cent per individual. There is not a newspaper in town the advertising
rate of which is $1.00 per thousand circulation, for a space big enough in which to display
what he said to you."

"I never looked at it that way," said the cigar man.

It's only "the man who hasn't looked at it that way," who hesitates for an instant over the
advisability and profitableness of newspaper publicity.

Newspaper advertising is the cheapest channel of communication ever established by man. A thousand
letters with one-cent stamps, will easily cost fifteen dollars and not one envelope in ten
will be opened because the very postage is an invitation to the wastebasket.

If there were anything cheaper rest assured that the greatest merchants in America would not
spend individual sums ranging up to half a million dollars a year and over, upon this form
of attracting trade.

The Man who Retreats before His Defeat

Advertising isn't magic. There is no element of the black art about it. In its best and highest
form it is plain talk, sane talk--selling talk. Its results are in proportion to the merit
of the subject advertised and the ability with which the advertising is done.

There are two great obstacles to advertising profit, and both of them arise from ignorance
of the real functions and workings of publicity.

The first is to advertise promises which will not be fulfilled,--because all that advertising
can do when it accomplishes most, is to influence the reader to investigate your claims.

If you promise the earth and deliver the moon, advertising will not pay you.

If you bring men and women to your store on pretense and fail to make good, advertising will
have harmed you, because it has only drawn attention to the fact that you are to be avoided.

It is as unjust to charge advertising with failure under these conditions, as it would be for
your neighbor to rob a bank and make you responsible for his misdeed. In brief, advertised
dishonesty is even more profitless than unexploited deception.

The other great error in advertising is to expect more out of advertising than there is in it.

Advertising is seed which a merchant plants in the confidence of the community. He must allow
time for it to grow. Every successful advertiser has to be patient. The time that it takes
to arrive at results rests entirely with the ability and determination devoted to the work.
But you cannot turn back when you have traveled half way and declare that the path is wrong.

You can't advertise for a week, and because your store isn't crowded, say it hasn't paid you.
It takes a certain period to attract the attention of readers. Everybody doesn't see what you
print the first time it appears. More will notice your copy the second day, a great many more
at the end of a month.

You cannot expect to win the confidence of the community to the same degree that other men
have obtained it, without taking pretty much the same length of time that they did. But you
can cut short the period between your introduction to your reader and his introduction to your
counters, by spending more effort in preparing your copy and displaying a greater amount of
convincingness.

You mustn't act like the little girl who sowed a garden and came out the next day expecting
to find it in full bloom. Her father had to explain to her that plants require roots and that,
although she could not see what was going on, the seeds were doing their most important work
just before the flowers showed above ground.

So advertising is doing its most important work before the big results eventuate, and to abandon
the money which has been invested just before results arrive, is not only foolish but childish.
It would be just as logical for a farmer to desert his fields because he cannot harvest his
corn a week after he planted it.

Advertising does not require faith--merely common sense. If it is begun in doubt and relinquished
before normal results can be reasonably looked for, the fault does not lie with the newspaper
nor with publicity--the blame is solely on the head of the coward who retreated before he was
defeated.

The Dollar that Can't be Spent

Every dollar spent in advertising is not only a seed dollar which produces a profit for the
merchant, but is actually retained by him even after he has paid it to the publisher.

Advertising creates a good will equal to the cost of the publicity.

Advertising really costs nothing. While it uses funds it does not use them up. It helps the
founder of a business to grow rich and then keeps his business alive after his death.

It eliminates the personal equation. It perpetuates confidence in the store and makes it possible
for a merchant to withdraw from business without having the profits of the business withdrawn
from him. It changes a name to an institution--an institution which will survive its builder.

It is really an insurance policy which costs nothing--pays a premium each year instead of calling
for one and renders it possible to change the entire personnel of a business without disturbing
its prosperity.

Advertising renders the business stronger than the man--independent of his presence. It permanentizes
systems of merchandising, the track of which is left for others to follow.

A business which is not advertised must rely upon the personality of its proprietor, and personality
in business is a decreasing factor. The public does not want to know the man who owns the store--it
isn't interested in him but in his goods. When an unadvertised business is sold it is only
worth as much as its stock of goods and its fixtures. There is no good will to be paid for--it
does not exist--it has not been created. The name over the door means nothing except to the
limited stream of people from the immediate neighborhood, any of whom could tell you more about
some store ten miles away which has regularly delivered its shop news to their breakfast table. 

For best Petra had had all the time. Only yesterday, as they seemed to reveal everything about them,
she had something concealed, and while they laughed at the cordial,
they had lied.

And
this secret goal, what so often in her presence had condemned the
provost, she adorned a divine calling to and from dare to ask God's
blessing on!

A life full of superficiality and vanity, jealousy and passion, full
of idleness and sensuality, full of lies and increasing lack of character,
all the vultures circling a carcass like - life is to dedicate this
one, that was their longing, the prayer to her God!

And that should he and his child have brought her here, her quiet parsonage, under the watchful eye
of an awakened community. When Signe came in clear, light as the winter morning to a good day
to tell the father, she found the study very full of smoke. Was it always a sign of emotional
upset, so it was doubly so early in the morning. He also said not a
word, but only gave her the book. She saw at once that it belonged
to Petra.

The memory of the suspect and the pain of last night flashed through her, she did not even look
inside, and her heart beat so violently that she had to sit down. But the same word that had
first noticed the pastor fell on her too, jumped into her eyes, she had to look closer, and
then they read it. My first feeling was shame, not Petra, but because the father had also read that.
But soon she felt the deep humiliation that is to be someone you
love has been deceived by to see.

For a moment we want the man who has brought the completed, larger, more intelligent, inventive,
we seem to be, yes, he wanders to the downright mysterious. Soon, however, the soul gathers
again in rebellion, honesty wins power by forces which, though invisible,
but are not mysterious, one feels within himself the strength to blow
one hundred petty excuses to crush with a; you despise that by which
we is flat, yet humbled felt.

Drin in the living room had Petra piano placed at, and just heard her sing: In joy the day and
the flared, and the discontent Wolkenburg stormy burned, the burning mountains aware camps in
over tents of Light King droves. "On Now! On now!" Bird in the grove, "Up!" what may rejoice
and sing, On the light, my hope! Then it drove like a storm over the piano,
and in the middle roared out a second song: good is your advice! But seductive
path to drift I my boat out in the surf roaring. And the journey leads
through the gate of death - Let me taste that I never tasted before.
Not just for the game I'll search my goal - Will, wrestle with storm
waves - Will conquer the world ocean - Will see how the keel to the
side sets - must try how far and how long it takes me, no! Now it
was the provost to bunt!

He tore Signe in passing over from the hand, he rushed towards the
door, and this time she held him back.

He went off like an arrow on Petra, threw the book before her on the piano, turned back and
ran through the whole room up and down. When he turned back, they had risen. She held the book
pressed to his chest and looked with troubled eyes around for all sides.
He stood in front of her to clear her pour wine, but his anger, the
bitterness that he has two years from this wily young thing had to
be misused, and especially about it being private, warm, sacrificial
child had had the best, it outraged so that it was not the same words.

And when he finally did, he felt himself that it too hard were.

Once, when he stormed through the room was still and her back was
against, with blood-red face, he simply turned her back, and went
without a syllable to say back in his study.

When he got there was, Signe on. The whole day was any in his room. The pastor was eating alone
at lunch, none of the girls appeared.

Petra remained in the room on the housekeeper, that they had after being instructed to fire her. In vain
she had searched everywhere Signe to tell her everything; Signe
seemed generally not to be in the house.

Petra felt - she was faced with a decision. Secretest thought your life was snatched from her,
and we wanted to influence a force, the not suffer as she could.

She felt even at the best - if they gave it their goal in life, she was exposed to all winds of
chance. She could be happy with those who rejoice, trust with the trusting, always and everywhere
sure - but all in secret only by virtue of that objective: to achieve all
time, the skills in hot entgegenwuchsen their tendons. once someone
entrust oneself, after that first, failed attempt in Bergen - no,
that she could not, not even Oedegaard, they had to bear alone until
it was become so strong that it could withstand any doubts.

But now everything had changed. unceasingly was the fiery red face of the provost before their
startled conscience. Now it was to save himself! She sought Signe,
faster and faster, more excited, but already it was afternoon, and still
was not Signe there. The further a person we seek eludes us, the more
we increase our own the cause of separation, and so it was that she
realized at last: it was treason to have been a Signe, friendship
secretly something to abuse their what a great sin was Signe.

God, the Knower, was a witness, that such a view of things so far did not come was the sense
in it. Like a great sinner, she came before him. Just as then, she felt
at home like shattered and had but shortly before had no idea! That this
horrible thing could repeat itself, that no further progress was
still step, which increased their anxiety unsafe to horror.

But to the extent that their own debt grew grew the image Signes
of soul purity and generous self-devotion.

Yes, Signe had truth burning coals upon their heads collected. She wanted her feet knocked, they
called, they begged, had not ceased to cry, to Signe her again a one good look a gift, it was dark.
Now Signe had to finally be back where they otherwise had been too! Petra down, ran down the
aisle in the wing, where Signes was room, the door was locked.

So they had to be there!

My heart pounded as she pressed down the handle again and begged, "Signe, I must speak with you,
I hold it not, Signe" - In room no sound.

Petra bent down, listened, and knocked. "Signe, Signe, if you knew how unhappy I am!" - No
Reply. Long listening. Nothing. If we receive no response at all long, one begins to doubt at last whether
anyone is there, even if it is known, and if it this is still dark, so
we still anxious there. "Signe! Signe! Are You da? So've yet mercy!
Answer me! - Signe!

" It was and remained silent. She started to tremble and shiver. Then went to the kitchen door with a broad
band of light, slight funny steps ran down the court. This gave her plan a one. They also wanted
the court wanted the lead at the stone wall climbing, where the wing
was, and Sims along to this the whole building then go up to the other
side, where it up was very .

And then they wanted Signes room peep in!

  It was a clear starry night, mountains and houses stood in sharp outline, otherwise
there was no sign, only the outlines.

  The snow glistened, the dark paths between Helle lifted his even
more sharply apparent only.

  From the road sounded sleigh bells, ringing in the hasty, the shine
seemed encouraging; Petra jumped on the ledge.

  She wanted to the above beams of wood paneling hold on to, but she
lost her balance and fell down again. Now she took an empty barrel
and rolled them to the wall, climbed up and from the barrel on the ledge.
There, she crawled on hands and jerks feet further, each about a
quarter meters.

  It included the strong fingers of a strong hand to it to hold on,
because the bar jumped almost one inch in front.

They, too, was afraid that one could discover them, because of course
we would be back with the rope ladder together this story.

If they just only from the side that looked out on the court, away and was on the cross wall! But when
they finally arrived there, threatened new danger: the windows were
not veiled, and she had to duck while in constant fear of falling,
vorüberkroch the windows before.

  On the long wall, it was always higher, including, along the whole
  wall, was a Stachelbeerhecke that she would receive at least when
it fell.

  But she had no more fear. Her fingers were burning, their tendons were
shaking, the whole body was shaking, but they continue to climb.

  Now, only few steps and the window was reached.

  When Signe was no light, and the curtain was not lowered. The moon
was shining full into the room - they had to look far into the corner
can! Also gave her courage.

  

She reached the window ledge, could finally rest with the hand and cling, for now, as it was on
purpose, her heart began beating violently, so that she almost took away breath. But the longer she delayed,
the worse it was, so it was make short process ... And so she bent quickly
resolved in full at the window.

A piercing scream from the room was the answer. Signe had corner of the sofa sat in, and
now she stood with one sentence in the middle of the room and fought the terrible phenomenon wild
terror into and fled. This figure outside the window in the glow of the moon, this ruthless, repulsive
coarseness, the face, hot from the Moon outlined heated,, sparkling,
- Petra himself understood with lightning speed that her unfortunate
incident had nothing to disgust as Signe scare, of course, that her
image may be a nightmare from then on would always remain for Signe.

She lost consciousness and fell with a piercing cry down. The people in the house were rushing to
Signes reputation, but had found no one. Then they heard such a cry again, and the whole court went
along, they looked, they said, without finding something: it was a mere
coincidence that the Dean Signes window looking out from bushes and
in the moonlight Petra saw the lie in.

A great fear came over all. It took pains to free himself from the
thorns and carry up. They were brought in Signes room because the
room the housekeeper was not heated, they pulled her out and brought
her to bed, we washed her neck and hands were scratched sound, while
others are quite warm and bright and comfortable room made.

When they had come to again and looked around, she asked to be let
alone her.

The quiet comfort of the room, the fine white, which window dressing
table, bed and chairs were draped warned, infinitely wehtuend to
Signe.

Petra thought of her pure sweetness, her quiet voice, so milk-white sound had one, her fine sense
of the thinking of others, her soft kindness. And all she had now forfeited themselves. Soon
she was back out of this room as well from the house at all. And then - what? For the third one will
not make me pick up from the road, and even if it should happen -
they themselves did not want more.

It'd only take it back the same end. No one could trust her to take,
what might be the reason too ... she felt it was so.

She was not even step closer, she would never come at all a step further. Because without the trust
of the people did not go there. Oh, how she prayed as she was crying!
She rolled and writhed in their agony until she was completely exhausted
and fell asleep.

And in his sleep at once everything was snow white and, gradually, strangely high. Never in her
life she had such a height and such a bright sparkle of a million
stars seen.

Chapter Ten Even when she awoke, she was up there, the thoughts of
the day, they assailed at once wanted to, but were captured and carried
away of something, the whole air filled the - from the bells of Sunday
morning.

She jumped up and got dressed, got out of the pantry a little breakfast, grabbed a warm and hurried
to the road - that thirsted for God word she had never been! When they got there, the service
had just begun, and the door was locked and it was a cold day, and the frozen fingers her as she touched
the key and turned.

The priest was standing at the altar, they remained at the door until it was finished and clerk
him removed had vestments of, and then she went over to the so-called
bishop's chair, the choir was in and provided was drapes.

The actual parish chair was on the balcony, you wanted but from for some reason would rather
hide and sit alone, so they took refuge in the bishop's chair.

The slip was about her, she saw Signe already sitting in it, the utmost in corner. She stepped backwards step
one, but just then turned the pastor around, to the altar past her
to go into the sacristy, they hurried back into his chair and sat
in the back in a corner; Signe had lowered her veil.

It hurt Petra. They looked the community up about a large wooden pews on the right sat the men
left the women close to each other their breath was, how tremulous mist above them on the windows was
the ice inches thick, the clumsy carved wooden statues, the slow,
monotonous song, the masked people - all harmonized with each other
and it was tough and aloof, her impression was one of the nature
of that afternoon when she Bergen, had relied on, they made it was
only a timid traveler.

The pastor ascended the the pulpit, and he made a stern face. He prayed: "Lead us not into
temptation! We know that all the gifts that God has given us a temptation to hide, he should
be gracious and not our strength to try us, we should never forget
to ask him, for only when we submit our skills to him, redound us
to salvation.

The sermon dealt theme continues this by our dual mission in life was based on that, first, his
life's work as fill must each one where him and his circumstances made have skills his, - and secondly,
that we must educate Christianity in themselves and in those that our
care are entrusted. One must be careful in the choice of his life's
work, because there is unfortunately professions, even sinful are
in, there are also some that we are could sin to, because they either
not fit for us, or at least our desires too entgegenkämen.

Next: surely everyone must try as, according to his ability to choose,
as surely, such a choice, even if it is properly and well, we are
but a temptation, if we, the profession we pledge our time and our
all thoughts in his service represented.

Christianity in us should not be neglected any more than our parents duties towards our children.
We would have to focus yourself, let the Holy Spirit work in us constantly. We should have the
good seed of Christianity children and our plant they can maintain. There is no obligation, no excuse
for the exemption would be able to inform us, even if the opportunity had to be awaited. And
then he went on, - was one of the occupations of those who were sitting there went to their homes, treated
their relationships, their views. Then he took from other living conditions on examples from
the higher spheres of their sidelights hierherwarfen the. The pastor
was all that in everyday life knew him, quite foreign to the moment
of, as it appeared at the pulpit.

In his appearance he was different, his sealed, energetic face had opened and the flood of ideas
shine through was, his eye was lively, it looked firmly and deliberately raised and brought customer,
all of the shaggy, such as the curled up in his nature was entered,
out now like the mane of a lion, and his voice rolled like thunder,
then a long-drawn, or in short, sharp turns, and sometimes even fell
to soft tones down, but just to be back to the level climb.

 Like a one-flake snowstorm, there is not enough of it to lay.

Space is a comparative matter after all. It is not a case of how much is used as how it is
used. The passengers on the limited express may realize that Jones has tacked a twelve-inch
shingle on every post and fence for a stretch of five miles, but they are going too fast to
make out what the shingles say, yet the two feet letters of Brown's big bulletin board on top
of the hill leap at them before they have a chance to dodge it. And at that it doesn't cost
nearly so much as the sum total of Jones' dinky display.

Just so advertisements attractively displayed every day or every other day for a year in one
big newspaper, will find the eye of all readers, no matter how rapidly they may be "going"
through the advertising pages and produce more results than a dozen piking pieces of copy scattered
through half a dozen dailies.

The Difference between Amusing and Convincing

An advertiser must realize that there is a vast difference between amusing people and convincing
them. It does not pay to be "smart" at the line rate of the average first class daily. I suppose
that I could draw the attention of everybody on the street by painting half of my face red
and donning a suit of motley. I might have a sincere purpose in wishing to attract the crowd,
but I would be deluding myself if I mistook the nature of their attention.

The new advertiser is especially prone to misjudge between amusing and convincing copy. A humorous
picture may catch the eyes of every reader, but it won't pay as well as an illustration of
some piece of merchandise which will strike the eye of every buyer. Merchants secure varying
results from the same advertising space. The publisher delivers to each the same quality of
readers, but the advertiser who plants flippancy in the minds of the community won't attain
the benefit that is secured by the merchant who imprints clinching arguments there.

Always remember that the advertising sections of newspapers are no different than farming lands.
And it is as preposterous to hold the publisher responsible for the outcome of unintelligent
copy as it would be unjust to blame the soil for bad seed and poor culture. Every advertiser
gets exactly the same number of readers from a publisher and the same readers--after that it's
up to him--the results fluctuate in accordance with the intelligence and the pulling power
of the copy which is inserted.

Some Don'ts when You Do Advertise

    The price of the gun never hits the bull's eye.
    And the bang seldom rattles the bells.
    It's the hand on the trigger that cuts the real figger.
    The aim's what amounts--that's what makes record counts--
    Are you hitting or just wasting shells?

Don't forget that the man who writes your copy is the man who aims your policy.

When you stop to reflect what your space costs and that the wrong talk is just noise--bang
without biff--you must see the necessity and sanity of putting the right man behind the gun.

Don't tolerate an ambition on your ad-man's part to indulge in a lurking desire to be a literary
light.

People read his advertising to discover what your buyers have just brought from the market
and what you are asking for "O. N. T." They buy the newspaper for information and recreation
and are satisfied with the degree of poetry and persiflage dished up in its reading columns.

Don't exaggerate. Poetic licenses are not valid in business prose. The American people don't
want to be humbugged and the merchant who figures upon too many fools, finds himself looking
into a mirror, usually about a half hour after the sheriff has come to look over the premises.

Don't imitate. Advertising is a special measure garment. Businesses are not built in ready-made
sizes. Copy which fits somebody else's selling plans, won't fit your store without sagging
at the chest or riding up at the collar. Duplicated argument and duplicated results are not
twins. Your policy of publicity must be specially measured from your policy of merchandising.

Don't put your advertising in charge of an amateur. Let somebody else stand the expense of
his educational blunders. Remember you are making a plea before the bar of public confidence.
Your ad-writer is an advocate. Like a bad lawyer, he can lose a good case by not making the
most of the facts at hand.

Don't get the "sales" habit. "Sales" are stimulants. When held too often their effect is weakening.
The merchant who continually yells "bargain" is like the old hen who was always crying "fox."
When the real article did come along, none of her chicks believed it.

Don't use fine print. Make it easy for the reader to find out about your business. There are
ten million pairs of eyeglasses worn in America, and every owner of them buys something.

And Don't start unless you mean to stick. The patron saint of the successful advertiser hates
a quitter.

The Doctor whose Patients Hang On

Out in China all things are not topsy turvy. Physicians are paid for keeping people well and
when their patients fall ill, their weekly remittances are stopped. The Chinese judge a medical
man not by the number of years he lives, but by the length of time his patrons survive.

An advertising medium must be judged in the same way. The fact that it has age to its credit
isn't so important as the age of its advertising patronage. Whenever a daily continues to display
the store talk of the same establishment year after year, it's a pretty sure sign that the
merchant has made money out of that newspaper, because no publication can continue to be a
losing investment to its customers over a stretch of time, without the fact being discovered.
And when a newspaper is not only able to boast of an honor roll of stores that have continued
to appear in its pages for a stretch of decades, but at the same time demonstrates that it
carries more business than its competitors, it has proven its superiority as plainly as a mountain
peak which rises above its fellows.

The combination of stability and progress is the strongest virtue that a newspaper can possess.
Only the fit survive--reputation is a difficult thing to get and a harder thing to hold--it
takes merit to earn it and character to maintain it. There is a vast difference between fame
and notoriety, and just as much difference between a famous newspaper and a notorious one.

Just as a manufacturer is always eager to install his choicest stocks in a store which has
earned the respect of the community, just so a retailer should be anxious to insert his name
in a newspaper which has earned the respect of its readers. The manufacturer feels that he
will receive a square deal from a store which has age to its credit. He can expect as much
from a newspaper which is a credit to its age!

The newspaper which outlives the rest does so because it was best fitted to--it had to earn
the confidence of its readers--and keep it. It had to be a better newspaper than any other
and better newspapers go to the homes of better buyers. Every bit of its circulation has the
element of quality and staying power. And it is the respectable, home-loving element of every
community--not the touts and the gamblers--toward which the merchant must look for his business
vertebrae--he cannot find buyers unless he uses the newspaper that enters their homes. And
when he does enter their homes he must not confuse the sheet that comes in the back gate with
the newspaper that is delivered at the front door.

The Horse that Drew the Load

A moving van came rolling down the street the other day with a big spirited Percheron in the
center and two wretched nags on either side. The Percheron was doing all the work, and it seemed
that he would have got along far better in single harness, than he managed with his inferior
mates retarding his speed.

The advertiser who selects a group of newspapers usually harnesses two lame propositions to
every pulling newspaper on his list, and just as the van driver probably dealt out an equal
portion of feed to each of his animals, just so many a merchant is paying practically the same
rate to a weak daily, that he is allowing the sturdy profitable sheet.

Unfortunately the accepted custom of inserting the same advertisement in every paper acts to
the distinct disadvantage of the meritorious medium. The advertiser charges the sum total of
his expense against the sum total of his returns, and thereby does himself and the best puller
an injustice, by crediting the less productive sheets with results that they have not earned.

It's the pulling power of the newspaper as well as the horse that proves its value, and if
advertisers were as level headed as they should be, they would take the trouble to put every
daily in which they advertise on trial for at least a month and advertise a different department
or article in each, carefully tabulating the returns. If this were done, fifty per cent of
the advertising now carried in weaker newspapers would be withdrawn and the patronage of the
stronger sheets would advance in that proportion.

There are newspapers in many a city that are, single handed, able to build up businesses. Their
circulation is solid muscle and sinew--all pull. It isn't the number of copies printed but
the number of copies that reach the hands of buyers--it isn't the number of readers but the
number of readers with money to spend--it isn't the bulk of a circulation but the amount of
the circulation which is available to the advertiser--it isn't fat but brawn--that tell in
the long run.

There are certain earmarks that indicate these strengths and weaknesses. They are as plain
to the observing eye as the signs of the woods are significant to the trapper. The news columns
tell you what you can expect out of the advertising columns. A newspaper always finds the class
of readers to which it is edited. When its mental tone is low and its moral tone is careless
depend upon it--the readers match the medium.

No gun can hit a target outside of its range. No newspaper can aim its policy in one direction
and score in another. No advertiser can find a different class of men and women than the publisher
has found for himself. He is judged by the company he keeps. If he lies down with dogs he will
arise with fleas.

The Cellar Hole and the Sewer Hole

A coal cart stopped before an office building in Washington and the driver dismounted, removed
the cover from a manhole, ran out his chute, and proceeded to empty the load. An old negro
strolled over and stood watching him. Suddenly the black man glanced down and immediately burst
into a fit of uncontrollable laughter, which continued for several minutes. The cart driver
looked at him in amusement. "Say, Uncle," he asked, "do you always laugh when you see coal
going into a cellar?" The negro sputtered around for a few moments and then holding his hands
to his aching sides managed to say, "No, sah, but I jest busts when I sees it goin' down a sewer."

The advertiser who displays lack of judgment in selecting the newspapers which carry his copy
often confuses the sewer and the cellar.

All the money that is put into newspapers isn't taken out again, by any means. The fact that
all dailies possess a certain physical likeness, doesn't necessarily signify a similarity in
character, and it's character in a newspaper that brings returns. The editor who conducts a
journalistic sewer, finds a different class of readers than the publisher who respects himself
enough to respect his readers.

What goes into a newspaper largely determines the class of homes into which the newspaper goes.
An irresponsible, scandal-mongering, muck-raking sheet is certainly not supported by the buying
classes of people. It may be perused by thousands of readers, but such readers are seldom purchasers
of advertised goods.

It's the clean-cut, steady, normal-minded citizens who form the bone and sinew and muscle of
the community. It's the sane, self-respecting, dependable newspaper that enters their homes
and it's the home sale that indicates the strength of an advertising medium.

No clean-minded father of a family wishes to have his wife and children brought in contact
with the most maudlin and banal phases of life. He defends them from the sensational editor
and the unpleasant advertiser. He subscribes to a newspaper which he does not fear to leave
about the house.

Therefore, the respectable newspaper can always be counted upon to produce more sales than
one which may even own a larger circulation but whose distribution is in ten editions among
unprofitable citizens.

You can no more expect to sell goods to people who haven't money, than you can hope to pluck
oysters from rose-bushes.

It isn't the number of readers reached, but the number of readers whose purses can be reached,
that constitutes the value of circulation. It's one thing to arouse their attention, but it's
a far different thing to get their money. The mind may be willing, but the pocketbook may be weak.

If you had the choice of a thousand acres of desert land or a hundred acres of oasis, you'd
select the fertile spot, realizing that the larger tract had less value because it would be
less productive.

The advertiser who really understands how he is spending his money, takes care that he is not
pouring his money into deserts and sewers.

The Neighborhood of Your Advertising

Circulation is a commodity which must be bought with the same common sense used in selecting
potatoes, cloth and real estate. It can be measured and weighed--it is merchandise with a provable
value. It varies just as much as the grocer's green stuff, the tailor's fabrics and the lots
of the real estate man.

Your cook refuses to accept green and rotten tomatoes at the price of perfect ones. She does
not calculate the number of vegetables that are delivered to her, but those that she can use.
When your wife selects a piece of cloth she first makes sure that it will serve the purpose
she has in view. When you buy a piece of property you consider the neighborhood as well as
the ground. Just so when you buy advertising you must find out how much of the circulation
you can use. You must judge the neighborhoods where your copy will be read, with the same thoughtfulness
that you devoted to selecting the spot where your goods are sold.

A dealer in precious stones would be foolish to open up in a tenement district, and equally
short-sighted, to tell about his jewelry in a newspaper largely distributed there. Out of ten
thousand men and women who might see what he had to say not ten of them could afford to buy
his goods. These ten thousand readers would be mass without muscle. He could make them willing
to do business with him, but their incomes wouldn't let them become customers.

One of the greatest mistakes in publicity is to drop your lines where the fish can't take your
bait.

Circulation is, as you see, a very interesting subject, but very few people know anything about
it. It would surprise you to know that this ignorance often extends to the business offices
of newspapers. I have known publishers to continually mistake the class of their readers and
have met hundreds of them who had the most fantastic ideas upon the figures of their circulation.

While I would not be so harsh as to accuse them of anything more than being mistaken, none
the less their tendency to infect others with this misinformation renders it extremely advisable
for you to become a member of the Missouri society--and "be shown."

Don't rely solely on circulation statements. You don't understand the tricks in their making.
Make the newspaper which carries your advertisement show you the list of its advertisers. A
newspaper which prints the most advertising, month after month, year after year, is always
the best medium. This is equally true in New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Kenosha and Walla Walla.

The Mistake of the Big Steak

Watch out for waste in circulation. Find out where your story is going to be read. Don't pay
for planting the seed of publicity in a spot where you are not going to harvest the results.

The manufacturer of soap who has his goods on sale from Oskaloosa to Timbuctoo doesn't care
how widely a newspaper circulation is scattered. Whoever reads about his product is near to
some store or other where it is sold--but you have just one store.

Buying advertising circulation is very much like ordering a steak--if the waiter brings you
a porter-house twice as big as your digestion can handle, you've paid twice as much as the
steak was worth to you, even if it is worth the price to the restaurant man.

You derive your profit not from the circulation that your advertisement gets, but from circulation
that gets people to buy.

If two newspapers offer you their columns and one shows a distribution almost entirely within
the city and in towns that rely upon your city for buying facilities, your business can digest
all of its influence. If the other has as much circulation, but only one third of it is in
local territory, mere bulk cannot establish its value to you--it's another case of the big
steak--you pay for more than you can digest. That part of its influence which is concentrated
where men and women can't get your goods after you get their attention, is sheer waste.

By dividing the number of copies he prints into his line rate, a publisher may fallaciously
demonstrate to you that his space is sold as low as that of his stronger competitors, but if
half his circulation is too far away to bring buyers, his real rate is double what it seems.
He is like the butcher who weighs in all the bone and sinew and fat and charges you as much
for the waste as he does for the meat.

The Omelette Soufflé

There is a vast distinction between distribution for the sake of increasing the circulation
figures and distribution for the sake of increasing the number of advertising responses.

There is a difference between a circulation which strikes the same reader several times in
the same day and the circulation which does not repeat the individual. There is a difference
between circulation which is concentrated into an area from which every reader can be expected
to come to your establishment, if you can interest him, and a circulation that spreads over
half a dozen states and shows its greatest volume in territory so far from your establishment
that you can't get a buyer out of ten thousand readers.

You've got to weigh and measure all these things when you weigh and measure circulation figures.
It isn't the number of copies printed, but the number of copies sold--not the number of papers
distributed, but the number of papers distributed in responsive territory--not the number of
readers reached, but the number of readers who have the price to buy what you want to sell--that
determine the value of circulation to you.

You can take a single egg and whip it into an omelette soufflé which seems to be a whole plateful,
but the extra bulk is just hot air and sugar--the change in form has not increased the amount
of egg substance and it's the substance in circulation, just as it is the nutrition in the
egg, that counts.

