Novels by:

BERTRAND W. SINCLAIR

North of Fifty-Three Big Timber Burned Bridges Poor Man's Rock

POOR MAN'S ROCK

BY

BERTRAND W. SINCLAIR

BOSTON

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY

Published September, 1920

THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, CAMBRIDGE, MASS., U.S.A.

CONTENTS

Prologue--Long, Long Ago

CHAPTER

I. The House in Cradle Bay

II. His Own Country

III. The Flutter of Sable Wings

IV. Inheritance

V. From the Bottom Up

VI. The Springboard

VII. Sea Boots and Salmon

VIII. Vested Rights

IX. The Complexity of Simple Matters

X. Thrust and Counterthrust

XI. Peril of the Sea

XII. Between Sun and Sun

XIII. An Interlude

XIV. The Swing of the Pendulum

XV. Hearts are not Always Trumps

XVI. En Famille

XVII. Business as Usual

XVIII. A Renewal of Hostilities

XIX. Top Dog

XX. The Dead and Dusty Past

XXI. As it was in the Beginning

POOR MAN'S ROCK

PROLOGUE

Long, Long Ago

The Gulf of Georgia spread away endlessly, an immense, empty stretch of water bared to the
hot eye of an August sun, its broad face only saved from oily smoothness by half-hearted flutterings
of a westerly breeze. Those faint airs blowing up along the Vancouver Island shore made tentative
efforts to fill and belly out strongly the mainsail and jib of a small half-decked sloop working
out from the weather side of Sangster Island and laying her snub nose straight for the mouth
of the Fraser River, some sixty sea-miles east by south.

In the stern sheets a young man stood, resting one hand on the tiller, his navigating a sinecure,
for the wind was barely enough to give him steerageway. He was, one would say, about twenty-five
or six, fairly tall, healthily tanned, with clear blue eyes having a touch of steely gray in
their blue depths, and he was unmistakably of that fair type which runs to sandy hair and freckles. Next
day he wrote as to Walter. "I see it will be best as you advise, to give that idea up; and indeed
I don't feel it would be reasonable to carry it out now.

I am far from sure it could be wholesomely done, after the interest he has acquired. But when
I have disposed of Paul (poor boy!) I will consider the subject farther." The subject was never resumed.
He was at the opening of his admirable fourth part, when, on the 6th of December, he wrote from
the Rue de Courcelles: "Here am I, writing letters, and delivering opinions, politico-economical
and otherwise, as if there were no undone number, and no undone Dick! Well. Cosi va il mondo
(God bless me! Italian! I beg your pardon)--and one must keep one's spirits up, if possible,
even under Dombey pressure. Paul, I shall slaughter at the end of number five. His school ought
to be pretty good, but I haven't been able to dash at it freely, yet. However, I have avoided
unnecessary dialogue so far, to avoid overwriting; and all I have written is point."

And so, in "point," it went to the close; the rich humour of its picture of Doctor Blimber and
his pupils alternating with the quaint pathos of its picture of little
Paul; the first a good-natured exposure of the forcing-system and
its fruits, as useful as the sterner revelation in Nickleby of the
atrocities of Mr. Squeers, and the last even less attractive for the
sweetness and sadness of its foreshadowing of a child's death, than
for those strange images of a vague, deep thoughtfulness, of a shrewd
unconscious intellect, of mysterious small philosophies and questionings,
by which the young old-fashioned little creature has a glamour thrown
over him as he is passing away.

It was wonderfully original, this treatment of the part that thus
preceded the close of Paul's little life; and of which the first conception,
as I have shown, was an afterthought.

It quite took the death itself out of the region of pathetic commonplaces, and gave to it the proper
relation to the sorrow of the little sister that survives it. It is a fairy vision to a piece
of actual suffering; a sorrow with heaven's hues upon it, to a sorrow with all the bitterness
of earth.

The number had been finished, he had made his visit to London, and
was again in the Rue de Courcelles, when on Christmas day he sent
me its hearty old wishes, and a letter of Jeffrey's on his new story
of which the first and second part had reached him.

"Many merry Christmases, many happy new years, unbroken friendship, great accumulation of
cheerful recollections, affection on earth, and Heaven at last! . . . Is it not a strange example
of the hazard of writing in parts, that a man like Jeffrey should form his notion of Dombey
and Miss Tox on three months' knowledge? I have asked him the same question, and advised him
to keep his eye on both of them as time rolls on.[139] I do not at heart, however, lay much
real stress on his opinion, though one is naturally proud of awakening such sincere interest
in the breast of an old man who has so long worn the blue and yellow.
. . .

He certainly did some service in his old criticisms, especially to Crabbe. And though I don't
think so highly of Crabbe as I once did (feeling a dreary want of
fancy in his poems), I think he deserved the pains-taking and conscientious
tracking with which Jeffrey followed him". . . .

Six days later he described himself sitting down to the performance of one of his greatest
achievements, his number five, "most abominably dull and stupid. I have only written a slip,
but I hope to get to work in strong earnest to-morrow. It occurred to me on special reflection, that
the first chapter should be with Paul and Florence, and that it should leave a pleasant impression
of the little fellow being happy, before the reader is called upon to see him die. I mean to have
a genteel breaking-up at Doctor Blimber's therefore, for the Midsummer vacation; and to show
him in a little quiet light (now dawning through the chinks of my
mind), which I hope will create an agreeable impression."

Then, two days later: ". . . I am working very slowly. You will see in the first two or three
lines of the enclosed first subject, with what idea I am ploughing
along.

It is difficult; but a new way of doing it, it strikes me, and likely
to be pretty."

And then, after three days more, came something of a damper to his spirits, as he thus toiled
along. He saw public allusion made to a review that had appeared in the Times of his Christmas
book, and it momentarily touched what he too truly called his morbid
susceptibility to exasperation.

"I see that the 'good old Times' are again at issue with the inimitable B. Another touch of a
blunt razor on B.'s nervous system.--Friday morning. Inimitable very mouldy and dull. Hardly
able to work. Dreamed of Timeses all night. Disposed to go to New
Zealand and start a magazine."

But soon he sprang up, as usual, more erect for the moment's pressure; and after not many days
I heard that the number was as good as done. His letter was very brief, and told me that he had
worked so hard the day before (Tuesday, the 12th of January), and
so incessantly, night as well as morning, that he had breakfasted
and lain in bed till midday.

"I hope I have been very successful."

There was but one small chapter more to write, in which he and his little friend were to part
company for ever; and the greater part of the night of the day on which it was written, Thursday
the 14th, he was wandering desolate and sad about the streets of Paris. I arrived there the following
morning on my visit; and as I alighted from the malle-poste, a little before eight o'clock, found
him waiting for me at the gate of the post-office bureau.

I left him on the 2nd of February with his writing-table in readiness
for number six; but on the 4th, enclosing me subjects for illustration,
he told me he was "not under weigh yet.

Can't begin." Then, on the 7th, his birthday, he wrote to warn me
he should be late.

"Could not begin before Thursday last, and find it very difficult indeed to fall into the new
vein of the story. I see no hope of finishing before the 16th at the earliest, in which case
the steam will have to be put on for this short month. But it can't
be helped.

Perhaps I shall get a rush of inspiration. . . . I will send the chapters as I write them,
and you must not wait, of course, for me to read the end in type. To transfer to Florence, instantly,
all the previous interest, is what I am aiming at. For that, all sorts of other points must
be thrown aside in this number. . . .

We are going to dine again at the Embassy to-day--with a very ill will on my part. All well.
I hope when I write next I shall report myself in better cue. . . .

I have had a tremendous outpouring from Jeffrey about the last part, which he thinks the best
thing past, present, or to come."[140] Three more days and I had the MS. of the completed chapter,
nearly half the number (in which as printed it stands second, the
small middle chapter having been transposed to its place).

"I have taken the most prodigious pains with it; the difficulty, immediately after Paul's
death, being very great. May you like it! My head aches over it now (I write at one o'clock
in the morning), and I am strange to it. . . . I think I shall manage Dombey's second wife
(introduced by the Major), and the beginning of that business in
his present state of mind, very naturally and well. . . .

Paul's death has amazed Paris. All sorts of people are open-mouthed with admiration. . . . When
I have done, I'll write you such a letter!

Don't cut me short in your letters just now, because I'm working
hard. . . .

I'll make up. . . . Snow--snow--snow--a foot thick." The day after this, came the brief chapter
which was printed as the first; and then, on the 16th, which he had fixed as his limit for
completion, the close reached me; but I had meanwhile sent him out so much of the proof as
convinced him that he had underwritten his number by at least two
pages, and determined him to come to London.

The incident has been told which soon after closed his residence abroad, and what remained of his
story was written in England.

I shall not farther dwell upon it in any detail. It extended over the whole of the year; and the interest
and passion of it, when to himself both became centred in Florence
and in Edith Dombey, took stronger hold of him, and more powerfully
affected him, than had been the case in any of his previous writings,
I think, excepting only the close of the Old Curiosity Shop.

Jeffrey compared Florence to little Nell, but the differences from
the outset are very marked, and it is rather in what disunites or
separates them that we seem to find the purpose aimed at.

If the one, amid much strange and grotesque violence surrounding her, expresses the innocent,
unconsciousness of childhood to such rough ways of the world, passing
unscathed as Una to her home beyond it, the other is this character
in action and resistance, a brave young resolute heart that will not
be crushed, and neither sinks nor yields, but from earth's roughest
trials works out her own redemption even here.

Of Edith from the first Jeffrey judged more rightly; and, when the story was nearly half done,
expressed his opinion about her, and about the book itself, in language that pleased Dickens
for the special reason that at the time this part of the book had seemed to many to have fallen
greatly short of the splendour of its opening. Jeffrey said however quite truly, claiming to
be heard with authority as his "Critic-laureate," that of all his writings it was perhaps
the most finished in diction, and that it equalled the best in the
delicacy and fineness of its touches, "while it rises to higher and
deeper passions, not resting, like most of the former, in sweet thoughtfulness,
and thrilling and attractive tenderness, but boldly wielding all the
lofty and terrible elements of tragedy, and bringing before us the
appalling struggles of a proud, scornful, and repentant spirit."

Not that she was exactly this. Edith's worst qualities are but the perversion of what should
have been her best.

A false education in her, and a tyrant passion in her husband, make
them other than Nature meant; and both show how life may run its evil
course against the higher dispensations.

As the catastrophe came in view, a nice point in the management of
her character and destiny arose.

I quote from a letter of the 19th of November, when he was busy with his fourteenth part. "Of
course she hates Carker in the most deadly degree.

I have not elaborated that, now, because (as I was explaining to Browne the other day) I have
relied on it very much for the effect of her death. But I have no question that what you suggest
will be an improvement.

The strongest place to put it in, would be the close of the chapter
immediately before this last one.

I want to make the two first chapters as light as I can, but I will try to do it, solemnly, in
that place." Then came the effect of this fourteenth number on Jeffrey; raising the question
of whether the end might not come by other means than her death, and bringing with it a more
bitter humiliation for her destroyer.

While engaged on the fifteenth (21st December) Dickens thus wrote to me: "I am thoroughly
delighted that you like what I sent. I enclose designs. Shadow-plate, poor. But I think Mr. Dombey
admirable. One of the prettiest things in the book ought to be at the end of the chapter I am writing
now. But in Florence's marriage, and in her subsequent return to
her father, I see a brilliant opportunity. . . .

Note from Jeffrey this morning, who won't believe (positively refuses) that Edith is Carker's
mistress. What do you think of a kind of inverted Maid's Tragedy, and a tremendous scene of her
undeceiving Carker, and giving him to know that she never meant that?"

So it was done; and when he sent me the chapter in which Edith says adieu to Florence, I had
nothing but praise and pleasure to express. "I need not say," he wrote in reply, "I can't, how
delighted and overjoyed I am by what you say and feel of it. I propose to show Dombey twice
more; and in the end, leave him exactly as you describe."

The end came; and, at the last moment when correction was possible, this note arrived. "I suddenly
remember that I have forgotten Diogenes. Will you put him in the last little chapter? After
the word 'favourite' in reference to Miss Tox, you can add, 'except with Diogenes, who is growing
old and wilful.' Or, on the last page of all, after 'and with them two children: boy and girl'
(I quote from memory), you might say 'and an old dog is generally in their company,' or to that
effect. Just what you think best."

That was on Saturday the 25th of March, 1848, and may be my last reference to Dombey until the book,
in its place with the rest, finds critical allusion when I close. But as the confidences revealed
in this chapter have dealt wholly with the leading currents of interest,
there is yet room for a word on incidental persons in the story, of
whom I have seen other so-called confidences alleged which it will
be only right to state have really no authority.

And first let me say what unquestionable evidence these characters give of the unimpaired freshness,
richness, variety, and fitness of Dickens's invention at this time. Glorious Captain Cuttle,
laying his head to the wind and fighting through everything; his friend Jack Bunsby,[141] with
a head too ponderous to lay-to, and so falling victim to the inveterate MacStinger; good-hearted,
modest, considerate Toots, whose brains rapidly go as his whiskers come, but who yet gets back from
contact with the world, in his shambling way, some fragments of the sense pumped out of him by
the forcing Blimbers; breathless Susan Nipper, beaming Polly Toodle,
the plaintive Wickham, and the awful Pipchin, each with her duty in
the starched Dombey household so nicely appointed as to seem born
for only that; simple thoughtful old Gills and his hearty young lad
of a nephew; Mr. Toodle and his children, with the charitable grinder's
decline and fall; Miss Tox, obsequious flatterer from nothing but
good-nature; spectacled and analytic, but not unkind Miss Blimber;
and the good droning dull benevolent Doctor himself, withering even
the fruits of his well-spread dinner-table with his It is remarkable,
Mr. Feeder, that the Romans--"at the mention of which terrible people,
their implacable enemies, every young gentleman fastened his gaze
upon the Doctor, with an assumption of the deepest interest."

So vivid and life-like were all these people, to the very youngest of the young gentlemen,
that it became natural eagerly to seek out for them actual prototypes; but I think I can say
with some confidence of them all, that, whatever single traits may have been taken from persons
known to him (a practice with all writers, and very specially with
Dickens), only two had living originals.

His own experience of Mrs. Pipchin has been related; I had myself some knowledge of Miss Blimber;
and the Little Wooden Midshipman did actually (perhaps does still)
occupy his post of observation in Leadenhall-street.

The names that have been connected, I doubt not in perfect good faith, with Sol Gills, Perch
the messenger, and Captain Cuttle, have certainly not more foundation than the fancy a courteous
correspondent favours me with, that the redoubtable Captain must have sat for his portrait to
Charles Lamb's blustering, loud-talking, hook-handed Mr. Mingay. As to the amiable and excellent
city-merchant whose name has been given to Mr. Dombey, he might with the same amount of justice
or probability be supposed to have originated Coriolanus or Timon
of Athens.

FOOTNOTES:

[136] "He had already laid his hand upon the bell-rope to convey his usual summons to Richards,
when his eye fell upon a writing-desk, belonging to his deceased wife, which had been taken,
among other things, from a cabinet in her chamber.

It was not the first time that his eye had lighted on it. He carried the key in his pocket;
and he brought it to his table and opened it now--having previously locked the room door--with
a well accustomed hand.

"From beneath a heap of torn and cancelled scraps of paper, he took
one letter that remained entire.

Involuntarily holding his breath as he opened this document, and 'bating in the stealthy action
something of his arrogant demeanour, he sat down, resting his head upon one hand, and read it through.

"He
read it slowly and attentively, and with a nice particularity to every syllable. Otherwise
than as his great deliberation seemed unnatural, and perhaps the
result of an effort equally great, he allowed no sign of emotion to
escape him.

When he had read it through, he folded and refolded it slowly several times, and tore it carefully
into fragments. Checking his hand in the act of throwing these away, he put them in his pocket,
as if unwilling to trust them even to the chances of being reunited and deciphered; and instead
of ringing, as usual, for little Paul, he sat solitary all the evening in his cheerless room."
From the original MS. of Dombey and Son.

[137] "I will now explain that 'Oliver Twist,' the ----, the ----, etc." (naming books by another
writer), "were produced in an entirely different manner from what would be considered as the
usual course; for I, the Artist, suggested to the Authors of those
works the original idea, or subject, for them to write out--furnishing,
at the same time, the principal characters and the scenes.

And then, as the tale had to be produced in monthly parts, the Writer, or Author, and the Artist,
had every month to arrange and settle what scenes, or subjects, and characters were to be introduced,
and the Author had to weave in such scenes as I wished to represent."--The Artist and the Author,
by George Cruikshank, p. 15. (Bell & Daldy: 1872.) The italics are
Mr. Cruikshank's own.

[138] I take, from his paper of notes for the number, the various
names, beginning with that of her real prototype, out of which the
name selected came to him at last.

"Mrs. Roylance . . . House at the seaside. Mrs. Wrychin. Mrs. Tipchin. Mrs. Alchin. Mrs. Somching.
Mrs. Pipchin." See Vol. I. p. 55.

[139] Some passages may be subjoined from the letter, as it does not appear among those printed
by Lord Cockburn. "EDINBURGH, 14th December, '46.

My dear, dear Dickens!--and dearer every day, as you every day give me more pleasure and do
me more good!

You do not wonder at this style? for you know that I have been in love with you, ever since
Nelly! and I do not care now who knows it. . . .

The Dombeys, my dear D! how can I thank you enough for them!

The truth, and the delicacy, and the softness and depth of the pathos
in that opening death-scene, could only come from one hand; and the
exquisite taste which spares all details, and breaks off just when
the effect is at its height, is wholly yours.

But it is Florence on whom my hopes chiefly repose; and in her I see the promise of another Nelly!
though reserved, I hope, for a happier fate, and destined to let us see what a grown-up female
angel is like. I expect great things, too, from Walter, who begins charmingly, and will be still
better I fancy than young Nickleby, to whom as yet he bears most resemblance. I have good hopes too
of Susan Nipper, who I think has great capabilities, and whom I trust you do not mean to drop.
Dombey is rather too hateful, and strikes me as a mitigated Jonas,
without his brutal coarseness and ruffian ferocity.

I am quite in the dark as to what you mean to make of Paul, but shall watch his development with
interest. About Miss Tox, and her Major, and the Chicks, perhaps I do not care enough. But
you know I always grudge the exquisite painting you waste on such portraits. I love the Captain,
tho', and his hook, as much as you can wish; and look forward to
the future appearances of Carker Junior, with expectations which I
know will not be disappointed. . . ."



The man and the girl stood by till this was done. Then the girl turned away. The man extended
his hand.

"Thanks," he said curtly.

The other's hand had involuntarily moved. The short, stout man dropped a silver dollar in it,
swung on his heel and followed his daughter,--passed her, in fact, for she had only taken a
step or two and halted.

The young fellow eyed the silver coin in his hand with an expression that passed from astonishment
to anger and broke at last into a smile of sheer amusement. He jiggled the coin, staring at
it thoughtfully. Then he faced about on the jerseyed youth about to dip his blades.

"Smith," he said, "I suppose if I heaved this silver dollar out into the chuck you'd think
I was crazy."

The youth only stared at him.

"You don't object to tips, do you, Smith?" the man in the mackinaw inquired.

"Gee, no," the boy observed. "Ain't you got no use for money?"

"Not this kind. You take it and buy smokes."

He flipped the dollar into the dinghy. It fell clinking on the slatted floor and the youth
salvaged it, looked it over, put it in his pocket.

"Gee," he said. "Any time a guy hands me money, I keep it, believe me."

His gaze rested curiously on the man with the patch over his eye. His familiar grin faded.
He touched his cap.

"Thank y', sir."

He heaved on his oars. The boat slid out. The man stood watching, hands deep in his pockets.
A displeased look replaced the amused smile as his glance rested a second on the rich man's
toy of polished mahogany and shining brass. Then he turned to look again at the house up the
slope and found the girl at his elbow.

He did not know if she had overheard him, and he did not at the moment care. He met her glance
with one as impersonal as her own.

"I'm afraid I must apologize for my father," she said simply. "I hope you aren't offended.
It was awfully good of you to bring us ashore."

"That's quite all right," he answered casually. "Why should I be offended? When a roughneck
does something for you, it's proper to hand him some of your loose change. Perfectly natural."

"But you aren't anything of the sort," she said frankly. "I feel sure you resent being tipped
for an act of courtesy. It was very thoughtless of papa."

"Some people are so used to greasing their way with money that they'll hand St. Peter a ten-dollar
bill when they pass the heavenly gates," he observed. "But it really doesn't matter. Tell me
something. Whose house is that, and how long has it been there?"

"Ours," she answered. "Two years. We stay here a good deal in the summer."

"Ours, I daresay, means Horace A. Gower," he remarked. "Pardon my curiosity, but you see I
used to know this place rather well. I've been away for some time. Things seem to have changed
a bit."

"You're just back from overseas?" she asked quickly.

He nodded. She looked at him with livelier interest.

"I'm no wounded hero," he forestalled the inevitable question. "I merely happened to get a
splinter of wood in one eye, so I have leave until it gets well."

"If you are merely on leave, why are you not in uniform?" she asked quickly, in a puzzled tone.

"I am," he replied shortly. "Only it is covered up with overalls and mackinaw. Well, I must
be off. Good-by, Miss Gower."

He pushed his boat off the beach, rowed to the opposite side of the bay, and hauled the small
craft up over a log. Then he took his bag in hand and climbed the rise that lifted to the backbone
of Point Old. Halfway up he turned to look briefly backward over beach and yacht and house,
up the veranda steps of which the girl in the blue sweater was now climbing.

"It's queer," he muttered.

He went on. In another minute he was on the ridge. The Gulf opened out, a dead dull gray. The
skies were hidden behind drab clouds. The air was clammy, cold, hushed, as if the god of storms
were gathering his breath for a great effort.

And Jack MacRae himself, when he topped the height which gave clear vision for many miles of
shore and sea, drew a deep breath and halted for a long look at many familiar things.

He had been gone nearly four years. It seemed to him but yesterday that he left. The picture
was unchanged,--save for that white cottage in its square of green. He stared at that with
a doubtful expression, then his uncovered eye came back to the long sweep of the Gulf, to the
brown cliffs spreading away in a ragged line along a kelp-strewn shore. He put down the bag
and seated himself on a mossy rock close by a stunted, leaning fir and stared about him like
a man who has come a great way to see something and means to look his fill.

CHAPTER II

His Own Country

Squitty Island lies in the Gulf of Georgia midway between a mainland made of mountains like
the Alps, the Andes, and the Himalayas all jumbled together and all rising sheer from the sea,
and the low delta-like shore of Vancouver Island. Southward from Squitty the Gulf runs in a
thirty-mile width for nearly a hundred miles to the San Juan islands in American waters, beyond
which opens the sheltered beauty of Puget Sound. Squitty is six miles wide and ten miles long,
a blob of granite covered with fir and cedar forest, with certain parklike patches of open
grassland on the southern end, and a hump of a mountain lifting two thousand feet in its middle.

The southeastern end of Squitty--barring the tide rips off Cape Mudge--is the dirtiest place
in the Gulf for small craft in blowy weather. The surges that heave up off a hundred miles
of sea tortured by a southeast gale break thunderously against Squitty's low cliffs. These
walls face the marching breakers with a grim, unchanging front. There is nothing hospitable
in this aspect of Squitty. It is an ugly shore to have on the lee in a blow.

Yet it is not so forbidding as it seems. The prevailing summer winds on the Gulf are westerly.
Gales of uncommon fierceness roar out of the northwest in fall and early winter. At such times
the storms split on Squitty Island, leaving a restful calm under those brown, kelp-fringed
cliffs. Many a small coaster has crept thankfully into that lee out of the whitecapped turmoil
on either side, to lie there through a night that was wild outside, watching the Ballenas light
twenty miles away on a pile of bare rocks winking and blinking its warning to less fortunate
craft. Tugs, fishing boats, salmon trollers, beach-combing launches, all that mosquito fleet
which gets its bread upon the waters and learns bar, shoal, reef, and anchorage thoroughly
in the getting,--these knew that besides the half-moon bight called Cradle Bay, upon which
fronted Horace Gower's summer home, there opened also a secure, bottle-necked cove less than
a mile northward from Point Old.

By day a stranger could only mark the entrance by eagle watch from a course close inshore.
By night even those who knew the place as they knew the palm of their hand had to feel their
way in. But once inside, a man could lie down in his bunk and sleep soundly, though a southeaster
whistled and moaned, and the seas roared smoking into the narrow mouth. No ripple of that troubled
the inside of Squitty Cove. It was a finger of the sea thrust straight into the land, a finger
three hundred yards long, forty yards wide, with an entrance so narrow that a man could heave
a sounding lead across it, and that entrance so masked by a rock about the bigness of a six-room
house that one holding the channel could touch the rock with a pike pole as he passed in. There
was a mud bottom, twenty-foot depth at low tide, and a little stream of cold fresh water brawling
in at the head. A cliff walled it on the south. A low, grassy hill dotted with solitary firs,
red-barked arbutus, and clumps of wild cherry formed its northern boundary. And all around
the mouth, in every nook and crevice, driftwood of every size and shape lay in great heaps,
cast high above tidewater by the big storms.

So Squitty had the three prime requisites for a harbor,--secure anchorage, fresh water, and
firewood. There was good fertile land, too, behind the Cove,--low valleys that ran the length
of the island. There were settlers here and there, but these settlers were not the folk who
intermittently frequented Squitty Cove. The settlers stayed on their land, battling with stumps,
clearing away the ancient forest, tilling the soil. Those to whom Squitty Cove gave soundest
sleep and keenest joy were tillers of the sea. Off Point Old a rock brown with seaweed, ringed
with a bed of kelp, lifted its ugly head now to the one good, blue-gray eye of Jack MacRae,
the same rock upon which Donald MacRae's sloop broke her back before Jack MacRae was born.
It was a sunken menace at any stage of water, heartily cursed by the fishermen. In the years
between, the rock had acquired a name not written on the Admiralty charts. The hydrographers
would look puzzled and shake their heads if one asked where in the Gulf waters lay Poor Man's Rock.

But Poor Man's Rock it is. Greek and Japanese, Spaniard and Italian, American and Canadian--and
there are many of each--who follow the silver-sided salmon when they run in the Gulf of Georgia,
these know that Poor Man's Rock lies half a cable south southwest of Point Old on Squitty Island.
Most of them know, too, why it is called Poor Man's Rock.

Under certain conditions of sea and sky the Rock is as lonely and forbidding a spot as ever
a ship's timbers were broken upon. Point Old thrusts out like the stubby thumb on a clenched
first. The Rock and the outer nib of the Point are haunted by quarreling flocks of gulls and
coots and the black Siwash duck with his stumpy wings and brilliant yellow bill. The southeaster
sends endless battalions of waves rolling up there when it blows. These rear white heads over
the Rock and burst on the Point with shuddering impact and showers of spray. When the sky is
dull and gray, and the wind whips the stunted trees on the Point--trees that lean inland with
branches all twisted to the landward side from pressure of many gales in their growing years--and
the surf is booming out its basso harmonies, the Rock is no place for a fisherman. Even the
gulls desert it then.

But in good weather, in the season, the blueback and spring salmon swim in vast schools across
the end of Squitty. They feed upon small fish, baby herring, tiny darting atoms of finny life
that swarm in countless numbers. What these inch-long fishes feed upon no man knows, but they
begin to show in the Gulf early in spring. The water is alive with them,--minute, darting streaks
of silver. The salmon follow these schools, pursuing, swallowing, eating to live. Seal and
dogfish follow the salmon. Shark and the giant blackfish follow dogfish and seal. And man follows
them all, pursuing and killing that he himself may live.

Around Poor Man's Rock the tide sets strongly at certain stages of ebb and flood. The cliffs
north of Point Old and the area immediately surrounding the Rock are thick strewn with kelp.
In these brown patches of seaweed the tiny fish, the schools of baby herring, take refuge from
their restless enemy, the swift and voracious salmon.

For years Pacific Coast salmon have been taken by net and trap, to the profit of the salmon
packers and the satisfaction of those who cannot get fish save out of tin cans. The salmon
swarmed in millions on their way to spawn in fresh-water streams. They were plentiful and cheap.
But even before the war came to send the price of linen-mesh net beyond most fishermen's pocketbooks,
men had discovered that salmon could be taken commercially by trolling lines. The lordly spring,
which attains to seventy pounds, the small, swift blueback, and the fighting coho could all
be lured to a hook on a wobbling bit of silver or brass at the end of a long line weighted
with lead to keep it at a certain depth behind a moving boat. From a single line over the stern
it was but a logical step to two, four, even six lines spaced on slender poles boomed out on
each side of a power launch,--once the fisherman learned that with this gear he could take
salmon in open water. So trolling was launched. Odd trollers grew to trolling fleets. A new
method became established in the salmon industry.

But there are places where the salmon run and a gasboat trolling her battery of lines cannot
go without loss of gear. The power boats cannot troll in shallows. They cannot operate in kelp
without fouling. So they hold to deep open water and leave the kelp and shoals to the rowboats.

And that is how Poor Man's Rock got its name. In the kelp that surrounded it and the greater
beds that fringed Point Old, the small feed sought refuge from the salmon and the salmon pursued
them there among the weedy granite and the boulders, even into shallows where their back fins
cleft the surface as they dashed after the little herring. The foul ground and the tidal currents
that swept by the Rock held no danger to the gear of a rowboat troller. He fished a single
short line with a pound or so of lead. He could stop dead in a boat length if his line fouled.
So he pursued the salmon as the salmon pursued the little fish among the kelp and boulders.

Only a poor man trolled in a rowboat, tugging at the oars hour after hour without cabin shelter
from wind and sun and rain, unable to face even such weather as a thirty by eight-foot gasboat
could easily fish in, unable to follow the salmon run when it shifted from one point to another
on the Gulf. The rowboat trollers must pick a camp ashore by a likely ground and stay there.
If the salmon left they could only wait till another run began. Whereas the power boat could
hear of schooling salmon forty miles away and be on the spot in seven hours' steaming.

Poor Man's Rock had given many a man his chance. Nearly always salmon could be taken there
by a rowboat. And because for many years old men, men with lean purses, men with a rowboat,
a few dollars, and a hunger for independence, had camped in Squitty Cove and fished the Squitty
headlands and seldom failed to take salmon around the Rock, the name had clung to that brown
hummock of granite lifting out of the sea at half tide. From April to November, any day a rowboat
could live outside the Cove, there would be half a dozen, eight, ten, more or less, of these
solitary rowers bending to their oars, circling the Rock.

Now and again one of these would hastily drop his oars, stand up, and haul in his line hand
over hand. There would be a splashing and splattering on the surface, a bright silver fish
leaping and threshing the water, to land at last with a plop! in the boat. Whereupon the fisherman
would hurriedly strike this dynamic, glistening fish over the head with a short, thick club,
lest his struggles snarl the line, after which he would put out his spoon and bend to the oars
again. It was a daylight and dusk job, a matter of infinite patience and hard work, cold and
wet at times, and in midsummer the blaze of a scorching sun and the eye-dazzling glitter of
reflected light.

But a man must live. Some who came to the Cove trolled long and skillfully, and were lucky
enough to gain a power troller in the end, to live on beans and fish, and keep a strangle hold
on every dollar that came in until with a cabin boat powered with gas they joined the trolling
fleet and became nomads. They fared well enough then. Their taking at once grew beyond a rowboat's
scope. They could see new country, hearken to the lure of distant fishing grounds. There was
the sport of gambling on wind and weather, on the price of fish or the number of the catch.
If one locality displeased them they could shift to another, while the rowboat men were chained
perforce to the monotony of the same camp, the same cliffs, the same old weary round.

Sometimes Squitty Cove harbored thirty or forty of these power trollers. They would make their
night anchorage there while the trolling held good, filling the Cove with talk and laughter
and a fine sprinkle of lights when dark closed in. With failing catches, or the first breath
of a southeaster that would lock them in the Cove while it blew, they would be up and away,--to
the top end of Squitty, to Yellow Rock, to Cape Lazo, anywhere that salmon might be found.

And the rowboat men would lie in their tents and split-cedar lean-tos, cursing the weather,
the salmon that would not bite, grumbling at their lot.

There were two or three rowboat men who had fished the Cove almost since Jack MacRae could
remember,--old men, fishermen who had shot their bolt, who dwelt in small cabins by the Cove,
living somehow from salmon run to salmon run, content if the season's catch netted three hundred
dollars. All they could hope for was a living. They had become fixtures there.

Jack MacRae looked down from the bald tip of Point Old with an eager gleam in his uncovered
eye. There was the Rock with a slow swell lapping over it. There was an old withered Portuguese
he knew in a green dugout, Long Tom Spence rowing behind the Portuguese, and they carrying
on a shouted conversation. He picked out Doug Sproul among three others he did not know,--and
there was not a man under fifty among them.

Three hundred yards offshore half a dozen power trollers wheeled and counterwheeled, working
an eddy. He could see them haul the lines hand over hand, casting the hooked fish up into the
hold with an easy swing. The salmon were biting.

It was all familiar to Jack MacRae. He knew every nook and cranny on Squitty Island, every
phase and mood and color of the sea. It is a grim birthplace that leaves a man without some
sentiment for the place where he was born. Point Old, Squitty Cove, Poor Man's Rock had been
the boundaries of his world for a long time. In so far as he had ever played, he had played there.

He looked for another familiar figure or two, without noting them.

"The fish are biting fast for this time of year," he reflected. "It's a wonder dad and Peter
Ferrara aren't out. And I never knew Bill Munro to miss anything like this."

He looked a little longer, over across the tip of Sangster Island two miles westward, with
its Elephant's Head,--the extended trunk of which was a treacherous reef bared only at low
tide. He looked at the Elephant's unwinking eye, which was a twenty-foot hole through a hump
of sandstone, and smiled. He had fished for salmon along the kelp beds there and dug clams
under the eye of the Elephant long, long ago. It did seem a long time ago that he had been
a youngster in overalls, adventuring alone in a dugout about these bold headlands.

He rose at last. The November wind chilled him through the heavy mackinaw. He looked back at
the Gower cottage, like a snowflake in a setting of emerald; he looked at the Gower yacht;
and the puzzled frown returned to his face.

Then he picked up his bag and walked rapidly along the brow of the cliffs toward Squitty Cove.

CHAPTER III

The Flutter of Sable Wings

A path took form on the mossy rock as Jack MacRae strode on. He followed this over patches
of grass, by lone firs and small thickets, until it brought him out on the rim of the Cove.
He stood a second on the cliffy north wall to look down on the quiet harbor. It was bare of
craft, save that upon the beach two or three rowboats lay hauled out. On the farther side a
low, rambling house of logs showed behind a clump of firs. Smoke lifted from its stone chimney.

MacRae smiled reminiscently at this and moved on. His objective lay at the Cove's head, on
the little creek which came whispering down from the high land behind. He gained this in another
two hundred yards, coming to a square house built, like its neighbor, of stout logs with a
high-pitched roof, a patch of ragged grass in front, and a picket-fenced area at the back in
which stood apple trees and cherry and plum, gaunt-limbed trees all bare of leaf and fruit.
Ivy wound up the corners of the house. Sturdy rosebushes stood before it, and the dead vines
of sweet peas bleached on their trellises.

It had the look of an old place--as age is reckoned in so new a country--old and bearing the
marks of many years' labor bestowed to make it what it was. Even from a distance it bore a
homelike air. MacRae's face lightened at the sight. His step quickened. He had come a long
way to get home.

Across the front of the house extended a wide porch which gave a look at the Cove through a
thin screen of maple and alder. From the grass-bordered walk of beach gravel half a dozen steps
lifted to the floor level. As MacRae set foot on the lower step a girl came out on the porch.

MacRae stopped. The girl did not see him. Her eyes were fixed questioningly on the sea that
stretched away beyond the narrow mouth of the Cove. As she looked she drew one hand wearily
across her forehead, tucking back a vagrant strand of dusky hair. MacRae watched her a moment.
The quick, pleased smile that leaped to his face faded to soberness.

"Hello, Dolly," he said softly.

She started. Her dark eyes turned to him, and an inexpressible relief glowed in them. She held
up one hand in a gesture that warned silence,--and by that time MacRae had come up the steps
to her side and seized both her hands in his. She looked at him speechlessly, a curious passivity
in her attitude. He saw that her eyes were wet.

"What's wrong, Dolly?" he asked. "Aren't you glad to see Johnny come marching home? Where's dad?"

"Glad?" she echoed. "I never was so glad to see any one in my life. Oh, Johnny MacRae, I wish
you'd come sooner. Your father's a sick man. We've done our best, but I'm afraid it's not good
enough."

"He's in bed, I suppose," said MacRae. "Well, I'll go in and see him. Maybe it'll cheer the
old boy up to see me back."

"He won't know you," the girl murmured. "You mustn't disturb him just now, anyway. He has fallen
into a doze. When he comes out of that he'll likely be delirious."

"Good Lord," MacRae whispered, "as bad as that! What is it?"

"The flu," Dolly said quietly. "Everybody has been having it. Old Bill Munro died in his shack
a week ago."

"Has dad had a doctor?"

The girl nodded.

"Harper from Nanaimo came day before yesterday. He left medicine and directions; he can't come
again. He has more cases than he can handle over there."

They went through the front door into a big, rudely furnished room with a very old and worn
rug on the floor, a few pieces of heavy furniture, and bare, uncurtained windows. A heap of
wood blazed in an open cobblestone fireplace.

MacRae stopped short just within the threshold. Through a door slightly ajar came the sound
of stertorous breathing, intermittent in its volume, now barely audible, again rising to a
labored harshness. He listened, a look of dismayed concern gathering on his face. He had heard
men in the last stages of exhaustion from wounds and disease breathe in that horribly distressed
fashion.

He stood a while uncertainly. Then he laid off his mackinaw, walked softly to the bedroom door,
looked in. After a minute of silent watching he drew back. The girl had seated herself in a
chair. MacRae sat down facing her.

"I never saw dad so thin and old-looking," he muttered. "Why, his hair is nearly white. He's
a wreck. How long has he been sick?"

"Four days," Dolly answered. "But he hasn't grown old and thin in four days, Jack. He's been
going downhill for months. Too much work. Too much worry also, I think--out there around the
Rock every morning at daylight, every evening till dark. It hasn't been a good season for the
rowboats."

MacRae stirred uneasily in his chair. He didn't understand why his father should have to drudge
in a trolling boat. They had always fished salmon, so far back as he could recall, but never
of stark necessity. He nursed his chin in his hand and thought. Mostly he thought with a constricted
feeling in his throat of how frail and old his father had grown, the slow-smiling, slow-speaking
man who had been father and mother and chum to him since he was an urchin in knee breeches.
He recalled him at their parting on a Vancouver railway platform,--tall and rugged, a lean,
muscular, middle-aged man, bidding his son a restrained farewell with a longing look in his
eyes. Now he was a wasted shadow. Jack MacRae shivered. He seemed to hear the sable angel's
wing-beats over the house.

He looked up at the girl at last.

"You're worn out, aren't you, Dolly?" he said. "Have you been caring for him alone?"

"Uncle Peter helped," she answered. "But I've stayed up and worried, and I am tired, of course.
It isn't a very cheerful home-coming, is it, Jack? And he was so pleased when he got your cable
from London. Poor old man!"

MacRae got up suddenly. But the clatter of his shoes on the floor recalled him to himself.
He sat down again.

"I've got to do something," he asserted.

"There's nothing you can do," Dolly Ferrara said wistfully. "He can't be moved. You can't get
a doctor or a nurse. The country's full of people down with the flu. There's only one chance
and I've taken that. I wrote a message to Doctor Laidlaw--you remember he used to come here
every summer to fish--and Uncle Peter went across to Sechelt to wire it. I think he'll come
if he can, or send some one, don't you? They were such good friends."

"That was a good idea," MacRae nodded. "Laidlaw will certainly come if it's possible."

"And I can keep cool cloths on his head and feed him broth and give him the stuff Doctor Harper
left. He said it depended mostly on his own resisting power. If he could throw it off he would.
If not--"

She turned her palms out expressively.

"How did you come?" she asked presently.

"Across from Qualicum in a fish carrier to Folly Bay. I borrowed a boat at the Bay and rowed up."

"You must be hungry," she said. "I'll get you something to eat."

"I don't feel much like eating,"--MacRae followed her into the kitchen--"but I can drink a
cup of tea."

He sat on a corner of the kitchen table while she busied herself with the kettle and teapot,
marveling that in four years everything should apparently remain the same and still suffer
such grievous change. There was an air of forlornness about the house which hurt him. The place
had run down, as the sands of his father's life were running down. Of the things unchanged
the girl he watched was one. Yet as he looked with keener appraisal, he saw that Dolly Ferrara
too had changed.

Her dusky cloud of hair was as of old; her wide, dark eyes still mirrored faithfully every
shift of feeling, and her incomparable creamy skin was more beautiful than ever. Moving, she
had lost none of her lithe grace. And though she had met him as if it had been only yesterday
they parted, still there was a difference which somehow eluded him. He could feel it, but it
was not to be defined. It struck him for the first time that many who had never seen a battlefield,
never heard a screaming shell, nor shuddered at the agony of a dressing station, might still
have suffered by and of and through the reactions of war.

They drank their tea and ate a slice of toast in silence. MacRae's comrades in France had called
him "Silent" John, because of his lapses into concentrated thought, his habit of a close mouth
when he was hurt or troubled or uncertain. One of the things for which he had liked Dolly Ferrara
had been her possession of the same trait, uncommon in a girl. She could sit on the cliffs
or lie with him in a rowboat lifting and falling in the Gulf swell, staring at the sea and
the sky and the wheeling gulls, dreaming and keeping her dreams shyly to herself,--as he did.
They did not always need words for understanding. And so they did not talk now for the sake
of talking, pour out words lest silence bring embarrassment. Dolly sat resting her chin in
one hand, looking at him impersonally, yet critically, he felt. He smoked a cigarette and held
his peace until the labored breathing of the sick man changed to disjointed, muttering, incoherent
fragments of speech.

Dolly went to him at once. MacRae lingered to divest himself of the brown overalls so that
he stood forth in his uniform, the R.A.F. uniform with the two black wings joined to a circle
on his left breast and below that the multicolored ribbon of a decoration. Then he went in
to his father.

Donald MacRae was far gone. His son needed no M.D. to tell him that. He burned with a high
fever which had consumed his flesh and strength in its furnace. His eyes gleamed unnaturally,
with no light of recognition for either his son or Dolly Ferrara. And there was a peculiar
tinge to the old man's lips that chilled young MacRae, the mark of the Spanish flu in its deadliest
manifestation. It made him ache to see that gray head shift from side to side, to listen to
the incoherent babble, to mark the feeble shiftings of the nervous hands.

For a terrible half hour he endured the sight of his father struggling for breath, being racked
by spasms of coughing. Then the reaction came and the sick man slept,--not a healthy, restful
sleep; it was more like the dying stupor of exhaustion. Young MacRae knew that.

He knew with disturbing certainty that without skilled treatment--perhaps even in spite of
that--his father's life was a matter of hours. Again he and Dolly Ferrara tiptoed out to the
room where the fire glowed on the hearth. MacRae sat thinking. Dusk was coming on, the long
twilight shortened by the overcast sky. MacRae glowered at the fire. The girl watched him expectantly.

"I have an idea," he said at last. "It's worth trying."

He opened his bag and, taking out the wedge-shaped cap of the birdmen, set it on his head and
went out. He took the same path he had followed home. On top of the cliff he stopped to look
down on Squitty Cove. In a camp or two ashore the supper fires of the rowboat trollers were
burning. Through the narrow entrance the gasboats were chugging in to anchorage, one close
upon the heels of another.

MacRae considered the power trollers. He shook his head.

"Too slow," he muttered. "Too small. No place to lay him only a doghouse cabin and a fish hold."

He strode away along the cliffs. It was dark now. But he had ranged all that end of Squitty
in daylight and dark, in sun and storm, for years, and the old instinctive sense of direction,
of location, had not deserted him. In a little while he came out abreast of Cradle Bay. The
Gower house, all brightly gleaming windows, loomed near. He struck down through the dead fern,
over the unfenced lawn.

Halfway across that he stopped. A piano broke out loudly. Figures flittered by the windows,
gliding, turning. MacRae hesitated. He had come reluctantly, driven by his father's great need,
uneasily conscious that Donald MacRae, had he been cognizant, would have forbidden harshly
the request his son had come to make. Jack MacRae had the feeling that his father would rather
die than have him ask anything of Horace Gower.

He did not know why. He had never been told why. All he knew was that his father would have
nothing to do with Gower, never mentioned the name voluntarily, let his catch of salmon rot
on the beach before he would sell to a Gower cannery boat,--and had enjoined upon his son the
same aloofness from all things Gower. Once, in answer to young Jack's curious question, his
natural "why," Donald MacRae had said:

"I knew the man long before you were born, Johnny. I don't like him. I despise him. Neither
I nor any of mine shall ever truck and traffic with him and his. When you are a man and can
understand, I shall tell you more of this."

But he had never told. It had never been a mooted point. Jack MacRae knew Horace Gower only
as a short, stout, elderly man of wealth and consequence, a power in the salmon trade. He knew
a little more of the Gower clan now than he did before the war. MacRae had gone overseas with
the Seventh Battalion. His company commander had been Horace Gower's son. Certain aspects of
that young man had not heightened MacRae's esteem for the Gower family. Moreover, he resented
this elaborate summer home of Gower's standing on land he had always known to be theirs, the
MacRaes'. That puzzled him, as well as affronted his sense of ownership.

But these things, he told himself, were for the moment beside the point. He felt his father's
life trembling in the balance. He wanted to see affectionate, prideful recognition light up
those gray-blue eyes again, even if briefly. He had come six thousand miles to cheer the old
man with a sight of his son, a son who had been a credit to him. And he was willing to pocket
pride, to call for help from the last source he would have chosen, if that would avail.

He crossed the lawn, waited a few seconds till the piano ceased its syncopated frenzy and the
dancers stopped.

Betty Gower herself opened at his knock.

"Is Mr. Gower here?" he asked.

"Yes. Won't you come in?" she asked courteously.

The door opened direct into a great living room, from the oak floor of which the rugs had been
rolled aside for dancing. As MacRae came in out of the murk along the cliffs, his one good
eye was dazzled at first. Presently he made out a dozen or more persons in the room,--young
people nearly all. They were standing and sitting about. One or two were in khaki--officers.
There seemed to be an abrupt cessation of chatter and laughing at his entrance. It did not
occur to him at once that these people might be avidly curious about a strange young man in
the uniform of the Flying Corps. He apprehended that curiosity, though, politely veiled as
it was. In the same glance he became aware of a middle-aged woman sitting on a couch by the
fire. Her hair was pure white, elaborately arranged, her eyes were a pale blue, her skin very
delicate and clear. Her face somehow reminded Jack MacRae of a faded rose leaf.

In a deep armchair near her sat Horace Gower. A young man, a very young man, in evening clothes,
holding a long cigarette daintily in his fingers, stood by Gower.

MacRae followed Betty Gower across the room to her father. She turned. Her quick eyes had picked
out the insignia of rank on MacRae's uniform.

"Papa," she said. "Captain--" she hesitated.

"MacRae," he supplied.

"Captain MacRae wishes to see you."

MacRae wished no conventionalities. He did not want to be introduced, to be shaken by the hand,
to have Gower play host. He forestalled all this, if indeed it threatened.

"I have just arrived home on leave," he said briefly. "I find my father desperately ill in
our house at the Cove. You have a very fast and able cruiser. Would you care to put her at
my disposal so that I may take my father to Vancouver? I think that is his only chance."

Gower had risen. He was not an imposing man. At his first glimpse of MacRae's face, the pink-patched
eye, the uniform, he flushed slightly,--recalling that afternoon.

"I'm sorry," he said. "You'd be welcome to the Arrow if she were here. But I sent her to Nanaimo
an hour after she landed us. Are you Donald MacRae's boy?"

"Yes," MacRae said. "Thank you. That's all."

He had said his say and got his answer. He turned to go. Betty Gower put a detaining hand on
his arm.

"Listen," she put in eagerly. "Is there anything any of us could do to help? Nursing or--or
anything?"

MacRae shook his head.

"There is a girl with him," he answered. "Nothing but skilled medical aid would help him at
this stage. He has the flu, and the fever is burning his life out."

"The flu, did you say?" The young man with the long cigarette lost his bored air. "Hang it,
it isn't very sporting, is it, to expose us--these ladies--to the infection? I'll say it isn't."

Jack MacRae fixed the young man--and he was not, after all, much younger than MacRae--with
a steady stare in which a smoldering fire glowed. He bestowed a scrutiny while one might count
five, under which the other's gaze began to shift uneasily. A constrained silence fell in the room.

"I would suggest that you learn how to put on a gas mask," MacRae said coldly, at last.

Then he walked out. Betty Gower followed him to the door, but he had asked his question and
there was nothing to wait for. He did not even look back until he reached the cliff. He did
not care if they thought him rude, ill-bred. Then, as he reached the cliff, the joyous jazz
broke out again and shadows of dancing couples flitted by the windows. MacRae looked once and
went on, moody because chance had decreed that he should fail.

       *       *       *       *       *

When a ruddy dawn broke through the gray cloud battalions Jack MacRae sat on a chair before
the fireplace in the front room, his elbows on his knees, his chin in his cupped palms. He
had been sitting like that for two hours. The fir logs had wasted away to a pile of white ash
spotted with dying coals. MacRae sat heedless that the room was growing cold.

He did not even lift his head at the sound of heavy footsteps on the porch. He did not move
until a voice at the door spoke his name in accents of surprise.

"Is that you, yourself, Johnny MacRae?"

The voice was deep and husky and kind, and it was not native to Squitty Cove. MacRae lifted
his head to see his father's friend and his own, Doctor Laidlaw, physician and fisherman, bulking
large. And beyond the doctor he saw a big white launch at anchor inside the Cove.

"Yes," MacRae said.

"How's your father?" Laidlaw asked. "That wire worried me. I made the best time I could."

"He's dead," MacRae answered evenly. "He died at midnight."

CHAPTER IV

Inheritance

On a morning four days later Jack MacRae sat staring into the coals on the hearth. It was all
over and done with, the house empty and still, Dolly Ferrara gone back to her uncle's home.
Even the Cove was bare of fishing craft. He was alone under his own rooftree, alone with an
oppressive silence and his own thoughts.

These were not particularly pleasant thoughts. There was nothing mawkish about Jack MacRae.
He had never been taught to shrink from the inescapable facts of existence. Even if he had,
the war would have cured him of that weakness. As it was, twelve months in the infantry, nearly
three years in the air, had taught him that death is a commonplace after a man sees about so
much of it, that it is many times a welcome relief from suffering either of the body or the
spirit. He chose to believe that it had proved so to his father. So his feelings were not that
strange mixture of grief and protest which seizes upon those to whom death is the ultimate
tragedy, the irrevocable disaster, when it falls upon some one near and dear.

No, Jack MacRae, brooding by his fire, was lonely and saddened and heavy-hearted. But beneath
these neutral phases there was slowly gathering a flood of feeling unrelated to his father's
death, more directly based indeed upon Donald MacRae's life, upon matters but now revealed
to him, which had their root in that misty period when his father was a young man like himself.

On the table beside him lay an inch-thick pile of note paper all closely written upon in the
clear, small pen-script of his father.

      My son: [MacRae had written] I have a feeling lately that I may
      never see you again. Not that I fear you will be killed. I no
      longer have that fear. I seem to have an unaccountable assurance
      that having come through so much you will go on safely to the
      end. But I'm not so sure about myself. I'm aging too fast. I've
      been told my heart is bad. And I've lost heart lately. Things
      have gone against me. There is nothing new in that. For thirty
      years I've been losing out to a greater or less extent in most
      of the things I undertook--that is, the important things.

      Perhaps I didn't bring the energy and feverish ambition I might
      have to my undertakings. Until you began to grow up I accepted
      things more or less passively as I found them.

      Until you have a son of your own, until you observe closely
      other men and their sons, my boy, you will scarcely realize how
      close we two have been to each other. We've been what they call
      good chums. I've taken a secret pride in seeing you grow and
      develop into a man. And while I tried to give you an
      education--broken into, alas, by this unending war--such as
      would enable you to hold your own in a world which deals harshly
      with the ignorant, the incompetent, the untrained, it was also
      my hope to pass on to you something of material value.

      This land which runs across Squitty Island from the Cove to
      Cradle Bay and extending a mile back--in all a trifle over six
      hundred acres--was to be your inheritance. You were born here. I
      know that no other place means quite so much to you as this old
      log house with the meadow behind it, and the woods, and the sea
      grumbling always at our doorstep. Long ago this place came into
      my hands at little more cost than the taking. It has proved a
      refuge to me, a stronghold against all comers, against all
      misfortune. I have spent much labor on it, and most of it has
      been a labor of love. It has begun to grow valuable. In years to
      come it will be of far greater value. I had hoped to pass it on
      to you intact, unencumbered, an inheritance of some worth. Land,
      you will eventually discover, Johnny, is the basis of
      everything. A man may make a fortune in industry, in the market.
      He turns to land for permanence, stability. All that is sterling
      in our civilization has its foundation in the soil.

      Out of this land of ours, which I have partially and
      half-heartedly reclaimed from the wilderness, you should derive
      a comfortable livelihood, and your children after you.

      But I am afraid I must forego that dream and you, my son, your
      inheritance. It has slipped away from me. How this has come
      about I wish to make clear to you, so that you will not feel
      unkindly toward me that you must face the world with no
      resources beyond your own brain and a sound young body. If it
      happens that the war ends soon and you come home while I am
      still alive to welcome you, we can talk this over man to man.
      But, as I said, my heart is bad. I may not be here. So I am
      writing all this for you to read. There are many things which
      you should know--or at least which I should like you to know.

      Thirty years  ago--

Donald MacRae's real communication to his son began at that point in the long ago when the
Gull outsailed his sloop and young Horace Gower, smarting with jealousy, struck that savage
blow with a pike pole at a man whose fighting hands were tied by a promise. Bit by bit, incident
by incident, old Donald traced out of a full heart and bitter memories all the passing years
for his son to see and understand. He made Elizabeth Morton, the Morton family, Horace Gower
and the Gower kin stand out in bold relief. He told how he, Donald MacRae, a nobody from nowhere,
for all they knew, adventuring upon the Pacific Coast, questing carelessly after fortune, had
fallen in love with this girl whose family, with less consideration for her feelings and desires
than for mutual advantages of land and money and power, favored young Gower and saw nothing
but impudent presumption in MacRae.

Young Jack sat staring into the coals, seeing much, understanding more. It was all there in
those written pages, a powerful spur to a vivid imagination.

No MacRae had ever lain down unwhipped. Nor had Donald MacRae, his father. Before his bruised
face had healed--and young Jack remembered well the thin white scar that crossed his father's
cheek bone--Donald MacRae was again pursuing his heart's desire. But he was forestalled there.
He had truly said to Elizabeth Morton that she would never have another chance. By force or
persuasion or whatsoever means were necessary they had married her out of hand to Horace Gower.

"That must have been she sitting on the couch," Jack MacRae whispered to himself, "that middle-aged
woman with the faded rose-leaf face. Lord, Lord, how things get twisted!"

Though they so closed the avenue to a mésalliance, still their pride must have smarted because
of that clandestine affection, that boldly attempted elopement. Most of all, young Gower must
have hated MacRae--with almost the same jealous intensity that Donald MacRae must for a time
have hated him--because Gower apparently never forgot and never forgave. Long after Donald
MacRae outgrew that passion Gower had continued secretly to harass him. Certain things could
not be otherwise accounted for, Donald MacRae wrote to his son. Gower functioned in the salmon
trade, in timber, in politics. In whatever MacRae set on foot, he ultimately discerned the
hand of Gower, implacable, hidden, striking at him from under cover.

And so in a land and during a period when men created fortunes easily out of nothing, or walked
carelessly over golden opportunities, Donald MacRae got him no great store of worldly goods,
whereas Horace Gower, after one venture in which he speedily dissipated an inherited fortune,
drove straight to successful outcome in everything he touched. By the time young Jack MacRae
outgrew the Island teachers and must go to Vancouver for high school and then to the University
of British Columbia, old Donald had been compelled to borrow money on his land to meet these
expenses.

Young Jack, sitting by the fire, winced when he thought of that. He had taken things for granted.
The war had come in his second year at the university,--and he had gone to the front as a matter
of course.

Failing fish prices, poor seasons, other minor disasters had followed,--and always in the background,
as old Donald saw it, the Gower influence, malign, vindictive, harboring that ancient grudge.

Whereas in the beginning MacRae had confidently expected by one resource and another to meet
easily the obligation he had incurred, the end of it was the loss, during the second year of
the war, of all the MacRae lands on Squitty,--all but a rocky corner of a few acres which included
the house and garden. Old Donald had segregated that from his holdings when he pledged the
land, as a matter of sentiment, not of value. All the rest--acres of pasture, cleared and grassed,
stretches of fertile ground, blocks of noble timber still uncut--had passed through the hands
of mortgage holders, through bank transfers, by devious and tortuous ways, until the title
rested in Horace Gower,--who had promptly built the showy summer house on Cradle Bay to flaunt
in his face, so old Donald believed and told his son.

It was a curious document, and it made a profound impression on Jack MacRae. He passed over
the underlying motive, a man justifying himself to his son for a failure which needed no justifying.
He saw now why his father tabooed all things Gower, why indeed he must have hated Gower as
a man who does things in the open hates an enemy who strikes only from cover.

Strangely enough, Jack managed to grasp the full measure of what his father's love for Elizabeth
Morton must have been without resenting the secondary part his mother must have played. For
old Donald was frank in his story. He made it clear that he had loved Bessie Morton with an
all-consuming passion, and that when this burned itself out he had never experienced so headlong
an affection again. He spoke with kindly regard for his wife, but she played little or no part
in his account. And Jack had only a faint memory of his mother, for she had died when he was
seven. His father filled his eyes. His father's enemies were his. Family ties superimposed
on clan clannishness, which is the blood heritage of the Highland Scotch, made it impossible
for him to feel otherwise. That blow with a pike pole was a blow directed at his own face.
He took up his father's feud instinctively, not even stopping to consider whether that was
his father's wish or intent.

He got up out of his chair at last and went outside, down to where the Cove waters, on a rising
tide, lapped at the front of a rude shed. Under this shed, secure on a row of keel-blocks,
rested a small knockabout-rigged boat, stowed away from wind and weather, her single mast,
boom, and gaff unshipped and slung to rafters, her sail and running gear folded and coiled
and hung beyond the wood-rats' teeth. Beside this sailing craft lay a long blue dugout, also
on blocks, half filled with water to keep it from checking.

These things belonged to him. He had left them lying about when he went away to France. And
old Donald had put them here safely against his return. Jack stared at them, blinking. He was
full of a dumb protest. It didn't seem right. Nothing seemed right. In young MacRae's mind
there was nothing terrible about death. He had become used to that. But he had imagination.
He could see his father going on day after day, month after month, year after year, enduring,
uncomplaining. Gauged by what his father had written, by what Dolly Ferrara had supplied when
he questioned her, these last months must have been gray indeed. And he had died without hope
or comfort or a sight of his son.

That was what made young MacRae blink and struggle with a lump in his throat. It hurt.

He walked away around the end of the Cove without definite objective. He was suddenly restless,
seeking relief in movement. Sitting still and thinking had become unbearable. He found himself
on the path that ran along the cliffs and followed that, coming out at last on the neck of
Point Old where he could look down on the broken water that marked Poor Man's Rock.

The lowering cloud bank of his home-coming day had broken in heavy rain. That had poured itself
out and given place to a southeaster. The wind was gone now, the clouds breaking up into white
drifting patches with bits of blue showing between, and the sun striking through in yellow
shafts which lay glittering areas here and there on the Gulf. The swell that runs after a blow
still thundered all along the southeast face of Squitty, bursting boom--boom--boom against
the cliffs, shooting spray in white cascades. Over the Rock the sea boiled.

There were two rowboats trolling outside the heavy backwash from the cliffs. MacRae knew them
both. Peter Ferrara was in one, Long Tom Spence in the other. They did not ride those gray-green
ridges for pleasure, nor drop sidling into those deep watery hollows for joy of motion. They
were out for fish, which meant to them food and clothing. That was their work.

They were the only fisher folk abroad that morning. The gasboat men had flitted to more sheltered
grounds. MacRae watched these two lift and fall in the marching swells. It was cold. Winter
sharpened his teeth already. The rowers bent to their oars, tossing and lurching. MacRae reflected
upon their industry. In France he had eaten canned salmon bearing the Folly Bay label, salmon
that might have been taken here by the Rock, perhaps by the hands of these very men, by his
own father. Still, that was unlikely. Donald MacRae had never sold a fish to a Gower collector.
Nor would he himself, young MacRae swore under his breath, looking sullenly down upon the Rock.

Day after day, month after month, his father had tugged at the oars, hauled on the line, rowing
around and around Poor Man's Rock, skirting the kelp at the cliff's foot, keeping body and
soul together with unremitting labor in sun and wind and rain, trying to live and save that
little heritage of land for his son.

Jack MacRae sat down on a rock beside a bush and thought about this sadly. He could have saved
his father much if he had known. He could have assigned his pay. There was a government allowance.
He could have invoked the War Relief Act against foreclosure. Between them they could have
managed. But he understood quite clearly why his father made no mention of his difficulties.
He would have done the same under the same circumstances himself, played the game to its bitter
end without a cry.

But Donald MacRae had made a long, hard fight only to lose in the end, and his son, with full
knowledge of the loneliness and discouragement and final hopelessness that had been his father's
lot, was passing slowly from sadness to a cumulative anger. That cottage amid its green grounds
bright in a patch of sunshine did not help to soften him. It stood on land reclaimed from the
forest by his father's labor. It should have belonged to him, and it had passed into hands
that already grasped too much. For thirty years Gower had made silent war on Donald MacRae
because of a woman. It seemed incredible that a grudge born of jealousy should run so deep,
endure so long. But there were the facts. Jack MacRae accepted them; he could not do otherwise.
He came of a breed which has handed its feuds from generation to generation, interpreting literally
the code of an eye for an eye.

So that as he sat there brooding, it was perhaps a little unfortunate that the daughter of
a man whom he was beginning to regard as a forthright enemy should have chosen to come to him,
tripping soundlessly over the moss.

He did not hear Betty Gower until she was beside him. Her foot clicked on a stone and he looked
up. Betty was all in white, a glow in her cheeks and in her eyes, bareheaded, her reddish-brown
hair shining in a smooth roll above her ears.

"I hear you have lost your father," she said simply. "I'm awfully sorry."

Some peculiar quality of sympathy in her tone touched MacRae deeply. His eyes shifted for a
moment to the uneasy sea. The lump in his throat troubled him again. Then he faced her again.

"Thanks," he said slowly. "I dare say you mean it, although I don't know why you should. But
I'd rather not talk about that. It's done."

"I suppose that's the best way," she agreed, although she gave him a doubtful sort of glance,
as if she scarcely knew how to take part of what he said. "Isn't it lovely after the storm?
Pretty much all the civilized world must feel a sort of brightness and sunshine to-day, I imagine."

"Why?" he asked. It seemed to him a most uncalled-for optimism.

"Why, haven't you heard that the war is over?" she smiled. "Surely some one has told you?"

He shook his head.

"It is a fact," she declared. "The armistice was signed yesterday at eleven. Aren't you glad?"

MacRae reflected a second. A week earlier he would have thrown up his cap and whooped. Now
the tremendously important happening left him unmoved, unbelievably indifferent. He was not
stirred at all by the fact of acknowledged victory, of cessation from killing.

"I should be, I suppose," he muttered. "I know a lot of fellows will be--and their people.
So far as I'm concerned--right now--"

He made a quick gesture with his hands. He couldn't explain how he felt--that the war had suddenly
and imperiously been relegated to the background for him. Temporarily or otherwise, as a spur
to his emotions, the war had ceased to function. He didn't want to talk. He wanted to be let
alone, to think.

Yet he was conscious of a wish not to offend, to be courteous to this clear-eyed young woman
who looked at him with frank interest. He wondered why he should be of any interest to her.
MacRae had never been shy. Shyness is nearly always born of acute self-consciousness. Being
free from that awkward inturning of the mind Jack MacRae was not thoroughly aware of himself
as a likable figure in any girl's sight. Four years overseas had set a mark on many such as
himself. A man cannot live through manifold chances of death, face great perils, do his work
under desperate risks and survive, without some trace of his deeds being manifest in his bearing.
Those tried by fire are sure of themselves, and it shows in their eyes. Besides, Jack MacRae
was twenty-four, clear-skinned, vigorous, straight as a young fir tree, a handsome boy in uniform.
But he was not quick to apprehend that these things stirred a girl's fancy, nor did he know
that the gloomy something which clouded his eyes made Betty Gower want to comfort him.

"I think I understand," she said evenly,--when in truth she did not understand at all. "But
after a while you'll be glad. I know I should be if I were in the army, although of course
no matter how horrible it all was it had to be done. For a long time I wanted to go to France
myself, to do something. I was simply wild to go. But they wouldn't let me."

"And I," MacRae said slowly, "didn't want to go at all--and I had to go."

"Oh," she remarked with a peculiar interrogative inflection. Her eyebrows lifted. "Why did
you have to? You went over long before the draft was thought of."

"Because I'd been taught that my flag and country really meant something," he said. "That was
all; and it was quite enough in the way of compulsion for a good many like myself who didn't
hanker to stick bayonets through men we'd never seen, nor shoot them, nor blow them up with
hand grenades, nor kill them ten thousand feet in the air and watch them fall, turning over
and over like a winged duck. But these things seemed necessary. They said a country worth living
in was worth fighting for."

"And isn't it?" Betty Gower challenged promptly.

MacRae looked at her and at the white cottage, at the great Gulf seas smashing on the rocks
below, at the far vista of sea and sky and the shore line faintly purple in the distance. His
gaze turned briefly to the leafless tops of maple and alder rising out of the hollow in which
his father's body lay--in a corner of the little plot that was left of all their broad acres--and
came back at last to this fair daughter of his father's enemy.

"The country is, yes," he said. "Anything that's worth having is worth fighting for. But that
isn't what they meant, and that isn't the way it has worked out."

He was not conscious of the feeling in his voice. He was thinking with exaggerated bitterness
that the Germans in Belgium had dealt less hardly with a conquered people than this girl's
father had dealt with his.

"I'm afraid I don't quite understand what you mean by that," she remarked. Her tone was puzzled.
She looked at him, frankly curious.

But he could not tell her what he meant. He had a feeling that she was in no way responsible.
He had an instinctive aversion to rudeness. And while he was absolving himself of any intention
to make war on her he was wondering if her mother, long ago, had been anything like Miss Betty
Gower. It seemed odd to think that this level-eyed girl's mother might have been his mother,--if
she had been made of stiffer metal, or if the west wind had blown that afternoon.

He wondered if she knew. Not likely, he decided. It wasn't a story either Horace Gower or his
wife would care to tell their children.

So he did not try to tell her what he meant. He withdrew into his shell. And when Betty Gower
seated herself on a rock and evinced an inclination to quiz him about things he did not care
to be quizzed about, he lifted his cap, bade her a courteous good-by, and walked back toward
the Cove.

CHAPTER V

From the Bottom Up

MacRae did nothing but mark time until he found himself a plain citizen once more. He could
have remained in the service for months without risk and with much profit to himself. But the
fighting was over. The Germans were whipped. That had been the goal. Having reached it, MacRae,
like thousands of other young men, had no desire to loaf in a uniform subject to military orders
while the politicians wrangled.

But even when he found himself a civilian again, master of his individual fortunes, he was
still a trifle at a loss. He had no definite plan. He was rather at sea, because all the things
he had planned on doing when he came home had gone by the board. So many things which had seemed
good and desirable had been contingent upon his father. Every plan he had ever made for the
future had included old Donald MacRae and those wide acres across the end of Squitty. He had
been deprived of both, left without a ready mark to shoot at. The flood of war had carried
him far. The ebb of it had set him back on his native shores,--stranded him there, so to speak,
to pick up the broken threads of his old life as best he could.

He had no quarrel with that. But he did have a feud with circumstance, a profound resentment
with the past for its hard dealing with his father, for the blankness of old Donald's last
year or two on earth. And a good deal of this focused on Horace Gower and his works.

"He might have let up on the old man," Jack MacRae would say to himself resentfully. He would
lie awake in the dark thinking about this. "We were doing our bit. He might have stopped putting
spokes in our wheel while the war was on."

The fact of the matter is that young MacRae was deeply touched in his family pride as well
as his personal sense of injustice. Gower had deeply injured his father, therefore it was any
MacRae's concern. It made no difference that the first blow in this quarrel had been struck
before he was born. He smarted under it and all that followed. His only difficulty was to discern
a method of repaying in kind, which he was thoroughly determined to do.

He saw no way, if the truth be told. He did not even contemplate inflicting physical injury
on Horace Gower. That would have been absurd. But he wanted to hurt him, to make him squirm,
to heap trouble on the man and watch him break down under the load. And he did not see how
he possibly could. Gower was too well fortified. Four years of war experience, which likewise
embraced a considerable social experience, had amply shown Jack MacRae the subtle power of
money, of political influence, of family connections, of commercial prestige.

All these things were on Gower's side. He was impregnable. MacRae was not a fool. Neither was
he inclined to pessimism. Yet so far as he could see, the croakers were not lying when they
said that here at home the war had made the rich richer and the poor poorer. It was painfully
true in his own case. He had given four years of himself to his country, gained an honorable
record, and lost everything else that was worth having.

What he had lost in a material way he meant to get back. How, he had not yet determined. His
brain was busy with that problem. And the dying down of his first keen resentment and grief
over the death of his father, and that dead father's message to him, merely hardened into a
cold resolve to pay off his father's debt to the Gowers and Mortons. MacRae ran true to the
traditions of his Highland blood when he lumped them all together.

In this he was directed altogether by the promptings of emotion, and he never questioned the
justice of his attitude. But in the practical adjustment of his life to conditions as he found
them he adopted a purely rational method.

He took stock of his resources. They were limited enough. A few hundred dollars in back pay
and demobilization gratuities; a sound body, now that his injured eye was all but healed; an
abounding confidence in himself,--which he had earned the right to feel. That was all. Ambition
for place, power, wealth, he did not feel as an imperative urge. He perceived the value and
desirability of these things. Only he saw no short straight road to any one of them.

For four years he had been fed, clothed, directed, master of his own acts only in supreme moments.
There was an unconscious reaction from that high pitch. Being his own man again and a trifle
uncertain what to do, he did nothing at all for a time. He made one trip to Vancouver, to learn
by just what legal processes the MacRae lands had passed into the Gower possession. He found
out what he wanted to know easily enough. Gower had got his birthright for a song. Donald MacRae
had borrowed six thousand dollars through a broker. The land was easily worth double, even
at wild-land valuation. But old Donald's luck had run true to form. He had not been able to
renew the loan. The broker had discounted the mortgage in a pinch. A financial house had foreclosed
and sold the place to Gower,--who had been trying to buy it for years, through different agencies.
His father's papers told young MacRae plainly enough through what channels the money had gone.
Chance had functioned on the wrong side for his father.

So Jack went back to Squitty and stayed in the old house, talked with the fishermen, spent
a lot of his time with old Peter Ferrara and Dolly. Always he was casting about for a course
of action which would give him scope for two things upon which his mind was set: to get the
title to that six hundred acres revested in the MacRae name, and, in Jack's own words to Dolores
Ferrara, to take a fall out of Horace Gower that would jar the bones of his ancestors.

With Christmas the Ferrara clan gathered at the Cove, all the stout and able company of Dolly
Ferrara's menfolk. It had seemed to MacRae a curious thing that Dolly was the only woman of
all the Ferraras. There had been mothers in the Ferrara family, or there could not have been
so many capable uncles and cousins. But in MacRae's memory there had never been any mothers
or sisters or daughters save Dolly.

There were nine male Ferraras when Jack MacRae went to France. Dolores' father was dead. Uncle
Peter was a bachelor. He had two brothers, and each brother had bred three sons. Four of these
sons had left their boats and gear to go overseas. Two of them would never come back. The other
two were home,--one after a whiff of gas at Ypres, the other with a leg shorter by two inches
than when he went away. These two made nothing of their disabilities, however; they were home
and they were nearly as good as ever. That was enough for them. And with the younger boys and
their fathers they came to old Peter's house for a week at Christmas, after an annual custom.
These gatherings in the old days had always embraced Donald MacRae and his son. And his son
was glad that it included him now. He felt a little less alone.

They were of the sea, these Ferraras, Castilian Spanish, tempered and diluted by three generations
in North America. Their forebears might have sailed in caravels. They knew the fishing grounds
of the British Columbia coast as a schoolboy knows his a, b, c's. They would never get rich,
but they were independent fishermen, making a good living. And they were as clannish as the
Scotch. All of them had chipped in to send Dolly to school in Vancouver. Old Peter could never
have done that, MacRae knew, on what he could make trolling around Poor Man's Rock. Peter had
been active with gill net and seine when Jack MacRae was too young to take thought of the commercial
end of salmon fishing. He was about sixty-five now, a lean, hardy old fellow, but he seldom
went far from Squitty Cove. There was Steve and Frank and Vincent and Manuel of the younger
generation, and Manuel and Peter and Joaquin of the elder. Those three had been contemporary
with Donald MacRae. They esteemed old Donald. Jack heard many things about his father's early
days on the Gulf that were new to him, that made his blood tingle and made him wish he had
lived then too. Thirty years back the Gulf of Georgia was no place for any but two-handed men.

He heard also, in that week of casual talk among the Ferraras, certain things said, statements
made that suggested a possibility which never seemed to have occurred to the Ferraras themselves.

"The Folly Bay pack of blueback was a whopper last summer," Vincent Ferrara said once. "They
must have cleaned up a barrel of money."

Folly Bay was Gower's cannery.

"Well, he didn't make much of it out of us," old Manuel grunted. "We should worry."

"Just the same, he ought to be made to pay more for his fish. He ought to pay what they're
worth, for a change," Vincent drawled. "He makes about a hundred trollers eat out of his hand
the first six weeks of the season. His head.[25]

Nor do we greatly care for many of the same kind in Martial, which
nevertheless were not omitted for the reasons given above.[26]

On
wordy epigrams.

It would be a long task to assemble all the natural aversions, nevertheless
we may add a few more which have removed a whole host of epigrams
from this anthology.

Beyond those already mentioned, nature finds distasteful long circumlocutions
and the piling up of a single point with varying phrase; for nature
burns with a desire to find out, ever hastens to the conclusion, and
is impatient at being detained by much talk unless there is a special
reward.

Consequently wordy epigrams beget a good deal of loathing, especially those that do not sufficiently
balance their length with the magnitude of the idea. Some of Martial's are burdened with this
fault; sometimes they accumulate too many commonplace compliments or are too petty in enumeration.
For example, in this epigram to what point are so many trite similes piled up?

Her voice was sweeter than the agëd swan, None would prefer the Eastern pearl before her, Or
the new-polished tooth of Indic beasts, Or the first snow, lilies
untouched by hand; She who breathed fragrance of the Paestan rose,
Compared with whom the peacock was but dull, The squirrel uncharming,
and unrare the phoenix, Erotion, is still warm on a new pyre.[27]

Similarly,
why in another well-known epigram is the same idea repeated again
and again?

Oh not unvalued object of my love, Flaccus, the darling of Antenor's hearth, Forego Pierian
songs, the sisters' dances: No girl among them ever gave a dime. Phoebus is nought; Minerva has
the cash, Is shrewd, is only usurer to the gods. What's there in Bacchus' ivy? The black tree
Of Pallas bends with mottled leaves and weight. On Helicon there's only water, wreaths, The
divine lyres, and profitless applause. Why do you dream of Cirrha, bare Permessis? The forum
is more Roman and more rich. There the coins clink, but round the sterile chairs And desks of
poets only kisses rustle.[28]

In the same way that nature is displeased with wordiness, she is displeased
with ideas that are too commonplace, for it is a kind of loquacity
to bubble on with the commonplace and trite, since it is the purpose
of speech to reveal what isn't known, not to repeat what is known
and worn-out.

Countless epigrams have been excluded from this selection for this fault, but since there is
nothing more common I will omit offering examples.

On trifling wit, and plays on words.

Not a little displeasing, also, is an assiduity in trifling which withdraws the mind from solid
subject-matter out of which true beauty springs. Plays on words, puns and other playing around
of that kind, unless they come to the judgement of the pen within
the bounds of art, are not so much figures of speech as faults of
style, and in those epigrams where the point rests solely in these
there is nothing thinner, especially when they are so peculiar to
one language that they cannot be translated into another.

On this basis we have passed over such frivolous witticisms as Owen's:

Rope
ends the robber, death is his last haul; The gallows gets the gangster--if
not all, If many get away, God gives no hope: It's an odd thief dies
with no coffin rope.[29]

A little more humorous is that of another
poet on the Swiss killed at night, though it too is faulty:

Annihilated
in night snow by a nut stick, I snow, night, nut, now, and annihilation
know.[30]

In what way natural inclinations are to be gratified.

We must carefully avoid all these natural sources of aversion and no less gratify natural inclinations
if we wish to attain that beauty we aim at.



CHAPTER VI

The Springboard

With a basic knowledge to start from, any reasonably clever man can digest an enormous amount
of information about any given industry in a very brief time. Jack MacRae spent three weeks
in Vancouver as a one-man commission, self-appointed, to inquire into the fresh-salmon trade.
He talked to men who caught salmon and to men who sold them, both wholesale and retail. He
apprised himself of the ins and outs of salmon canning, and of the independent fish collector
who owned his own boat, financed himself, and chanced the market much as a farmer plants his
seed, trusts to the weather, and makes or loses according to the yield and market,--two matters
over which he can have no control.

MacRae learned before long that old Manuel Ferrara was right when he said no man could profitably
buy salmon unless he had a cast-iron agreement either with a cannery or a big wholesaler. MacRae
soon saw that the wholesaler stood like a wall between the fishermen and those who ate fish.
They could make or break a buyer. MacRae was not long running afoul of the rumor that the wholesale
fish men controlled the retail price of fresh fish by the simple method of controlling the
supply, which they managed by coöperation instead of competition among themselves. He heard
this stated. And more,--that behind the big dealers stood the shadowy figure of the canning
colossus. This was told him casually by fishermen. Fish buyers repeated it, sometimes with
a touch of indignation. That was one of their wails,--the fish combine. It was air-tight, they
said. The packers had a strangle hold on the fishing waters, and the big local fish houses
had the same unrelenting grip on the market.

Therefore the ultimate consumer--whose exploitation was the prize plum of commercial success--paid
thirty cents per pound for spring salmon that a fisherman chivied about in the tumbling Gulf
seas fifty miles up-coast had to take fourteen cents for. As for the salmon packers, the men
who pack the good red fish in small round tins which go to all the ends of the earth to feed
hungry folk,--well, no one knew their profits. Their pack was all exported. The back yards
of Europe are strewn with empty salmon cans bearing a British Columbia label. But they made
money enough to be a standing grievance to those unable to get in on this bonanza.

MacRae, however, was chiefly concerned with the local trade in fresh salmon. His plan didn't
look quite so promising as when he mulled over it at Squitty Cove. He put out feelers and got
no hold. A fresh-fish buyer operating without approved market connections might make about
such a living as the fishermen he bought from. To Jack MacRae, eager and sanguine, making a
living was an inconspicuous detail. Making a living,--that was nothing to him. A more definite
spur roweled his flank.

It looked like an air-tight proposition, he admitted, at last. But, he said to himself, anything
air-tight could be punctured. And undoubtedly a fine flow of currency would result from such
a puncture. So he kept on looking about, asking casual questions, listening. In the language
of the street he was getting wise.

Incidentally he enjoyed himself. The battle ground had been transferred to Paris. The pen,
the typewriter, and the press dispatch, with immense reserves of oratory and printer's ink,
had gone into action. And the soldiers were coming home,--officers of the line and airmen first,
since to these leave and transportation came easily, now that the guns were silent. MacRae
met fellows he knew. A good many of them were well off, had homes in Vancouver. They were mostly
young and glad the big show was over. And they had the social instinct. During intervals of
fighting they had rubbed elbows with French and British people of consequence. They had a mind
to enjoy themselves.

MacRae had a record in two squadrons. He needed no press-agenting when he met another R.A.F.
man. So he found himself invited to homes, the inside of which he would otherwise never have
seen, and to pleasant functions among people who would never have known of his existence save
for the circumstance of war. Pretty, well-bred girls smiled at him, partly because airmen with
notable records were still a novelty, and partly because Jack MacRae was worth a second look
from any girl who was fancy-free. Matrons were kind to him because their sons said he was the
right sort, and some of these same matrons mothered him because he was like boys they knew
who had gone away to France and would never come back.

This was very pleasant. MacRae was normal in every respect. He liked to dance. He liked glittering
lights and soft music. He liked nice people. He liked people who were nice to him. But he seldom
lost sight of his objective. These people could relax and give themselves up to enjoyment because
they were "heeled"--as a boy lieutenant slangily put it--to MacRae.

"It's a great game, Jack, if you don't weaken," he said. "But a fellow can't play it through
on a uniform and a war record. I'm having a top-hole time, but it'll be different when I plant
myself at a desk in some broker's office at a hundred and fifty a month. It's mixed pickles,
for a fact. You can't buy your way into this sort of thing. And you can't stay in it without
a bank roll."

Which was true enough. Only the desire to "see it through" socially was not driving Jack MacRae.
He had a different target, and his eye did not wander far from the mark. And perhaps because
of this, chance and his social gadding about gave him the opening he sought when he least expected
to find one.

To be explicit, he happened to be one of an after-theater party at an informal supper dance
in the Granada, which is to Vancouver what the Biltmore is to New York or the Fairmont to San
Francisco,--a place where one can see everybody that is anybody if one lingers long enough.
And almost the first man he met was a stout, ruddy-faced youngster about his own age. They
had flown in the same squadron until "Stubby" Abbott came a cropper and was invalided home.

Stubby fell upon Jack MacRae, pounded him earnestly on the back, and haled him straight to
a table where two women were sitting.

"Mother," he said to a plump, middle-aged woman, "here's Silent John MacRae."

Her eyes lit up pleasantly.

"I've heard of you," she said, and her extended hand put the pressure of the seal of sincerity
on her words. "I've wanted to thank you. You can scarcely know what you did for us. Stubby's
the only man in the family, you know."

MacRae smiled.

"Why," he said easily, "little things like that were part of the game. Stubb used to pull off
stuff like that himself now and then." 

The first part of May a hard frost did quite a good deal of damage to small stock just planted
or lined out in the nursery.

This frost also damaged the blossoms on the fruit trees. The plum trees happened to be in full
bloom when this frost came, so that froze them entirely, and so we did not get any plums to speak
of. We also had a light crop of apples, especially of the early varieties. The Northwestern
and Patten's Greening bore a good crop.

The grapes also froze. I expected to get some fruit off those grape seedlings I received from
the State Fruit-Breeding Farm three years ago, but they went with the rest of it.

The plum trees I received this and two years ago are all doing well. They did not freeze back
any when we had that hard frost; so far they seem to be hardy for
this location.

Had a medium crop of raspberries, also a light crop of currants and gooseberries. We had a good
crop of strawberries.

Seedling strawberry No. 3 is doing very well. Everbearing strawberries
are doing nicely.

We had a nice fall and plenty of rain, so that trees and shrubbery went into winter quarters
in good condition.

Growing Beans and Sweet Corn.

P. B. MARIEN, ST. PAUL.

Since it is one thing to grow beans and sweet corn and another to
make money on them, I think from a market gardener's point of view
my heading should have been "growing beans and sweet corn at a profit."

I

will talk of beans first, because while the two are planted at about the same time, beans make
their appearance on the market long before sweet corn.

Beans have a nitrogen gathering power and are therefore a soil-improving crop. They are to the
gardener what clover is to the farmer. For early beans we have found that sandy soil well fertilized
is by far the best. If possible it should be sloping toward the south, although we have had
good success on level land well drained. One should have the best seed possible, and if you get hold
of a good strain of seed that produces nice, velvety beans earlier
than your neighbor, save as much of that seed as you can.

Of course now that the price of seed is $10.00 to $14.00 a bushel
one cannot be too particular.

Too much stress cannot be laid on the fact that to make money on beans one must have them on the
market within a week after the first ones make their appearance.

To do this one must plant them at the right time. The practical gardener knows that as he sits
near the stove with the ground still frozen and a cold March wind blowing he cannot say "I will plant
my beans on April 15 or on April 20." It is impossible to set a date for planting. After the
ground has been plowed and well tilled he must wait until it is well
warmed.

Sometimes it pays to take a chance, but we always wait until the buds appear on the white oak
trees.

However there is nothing infallible about this rule, but it is the
one we generally follow.

As to kinds we have two wax beans which we have planted for many years: the Davis, which does well in
wet weather, and the Wardwell Kidney, which does well in dry weather.

Every variety of green beans we have ever grown has done well.

Rows three feet apart, with the hills about six inches apart, three
or four seed in a hill, might take up too much room on a small scale,
but where one uses horses to cultivate, I think it is about right.

Beans should be cultivated at least two or three times a week, and they should be hoed three times
during the season. Never cultivate your beans while the dew is on, as it has a tendency to rust
them.

While St. Paul has not offered a very good market for medium and late string beans in the last
few years, it is a good plan to have a patch come in about every ten days. Because you happen
to get from $2.50 to $3.50 a bushel for your first beans this year, do not resolve to put the
whole farm into beans next year, for they might come three or four days later than your neighbor's,
and your profits might be like ours were one day last summer. I came to market with forty-eight
bushels of beans. They cost twenty cents for picking. I sold thirty-two bushels at thirty cents
and offered the remaining sixteen bushels at twenty cents, but found no sale for them. I brought
them back home and to my surprise found two extra bushels, making eighteen instead of sixteen
bushels. I concluded that someone had despaired of selling them and perhaps had poor success
in trying to give them away and so forced them on me. However we consider we did well on our
beans, as the first two pickings brought from $2.00 to $3.50 per bushel.

Now a few words about sweet corn. Along about the 6th to the 12th of July the truck gardener should
load his first sweet corn. Sweet corn is of American origin, having been developed from field
corn, or maize. No large vegetable is so generally grown throughout the country, the markets
of the cities taking large quantities, and immense areas being grown for canning purposes.

Seed that fails entirely is not often found, but when one has a good strain that produces early
corn it is best to save some.

We generally have sweet corn to sell every day from about the middle
of July until the first frost.

To do this we plant every ten days from about the 20th of April to
the 20th of June.

Our early variety is the Peep-O'Day, which is planted about the same time as the early beans.
We also plant the Golden Bantam at this time.

This is followed by Red Cob Cory, Pocahontas and some more Bantam.

Then about May 15th to 20th we plant early and late Evergreen, Bantam and Country Gentleman.

Soil
well adapted to common field corn will produce good sweet corn, thriving best on well fertilized
land. Sandy soil is best for the early varieties.

Sweet corn is often grown in drills, but we prefer the hills three feet apart, as it is easier to
get an even stand, and cultivating both ways will push the crop.

It should be cultivated shallow and never deep enough to hurt the roots. It is well to hoe
it once.

Sweet corn is one of the few vegetables which is quite free from serious
injury from either insects or diseases.

Sweet corn may be divided into three classes: early, medium and late.

It is very important that the various kinds come in as early as possible,
as a few days make a lot of difference in price.

So you see that to make a profit on beans and sweet corn, four things are needed: good seed,
planting at the right time, in the right kind of soil, and plenty of elbow grease--or hard work.

A
member: How far apart do you plant your beans in the row?

Mr. Marien: The rows three feet apart and the hills six inches, putting three or four seeds in
a hill.

A Member: Don't you recommend testing your seeds before you plant them?

Mr. Marien: Hardly the bean seeds.

I don't remember of ever having found any poor bean seeds.

A Member: I mean seeds generally, corn, etc.?

Mr. Marien: Yes, sir, we do; we always test our seed.

Mr. Goudy: What is your method of harvesting your beans?

Mr. Marien: Well, we generally employ pickers, boys and girls, and
we pay them about twenty-five cents a bushel when they are above a
dollar and a quarter, and then we keep going down; as the price goes
down we go down too; but we have paid as much as thirty cents when
the price of beans was high and it is important to get many on the
market the next day.

Mr. Anderson: What are your gross receipts per acre for beans?

Mr. Marien: That is a hard question to answer, as sometimes it is
very poor for the medium and late beans, and sometimes there aren't
any receipts at all.

(Laughter.) But the early beans sometimes go as high as $250.00 an acre.

Mr. Anderson: How late can you plant them and be sure of a crop?

Mr. Marien: We have planted them as late as the 15th of June.

A Member: You mentioned Davis as your first variety. What is the second one?

Mr. Marien: The Wardwell Kidney. We always plant the two varieties at the same time because if
we strike a wet season then the Davis does well, and the Wardwell won't do as well in wet
weather but will do better in dry weather.

Mrs. Glenzke: Will you tell me the color of your beans? Are they golden wax?

Mr. Marien: Yes, some golden wax and some green string beans.

We haven't as good a market for the green ones.

Mrs. Glenzke: Have they a string on the back?

Mr. Marien: Some have and some have not. There is the Bountiful, or the Thousand to One; that
is a small green string bean that hasn't any string. But they are very hard to pick; so we
don't raise many of them.

Mrs. Glenzke: Have you ever tried Golden Pod?

Mr. Marien: I think that is a wax bean?

Mrs. Glenzke: Yes.

Mr. Marien: Oh, we don't like them, at least not on the St. Paul market, because they are hard
to pick. I don't know how it is in the Minneapolis market.

A Member: What is the best of the green kind?

Mr. Marien: We find that the Bountiful is a very good bean; and then there is also the Red Valentine.

A
Member: Did you ever grow any Crusset Wax?

Mr. Marien: No, sir, I have not. Of course, there are some kinds that
are just the same, but they go under different names in different
places.

Different catalogs will catalog the same seeds in a different way.

* * * * *

BEWARE BLIGHT CURES.--Almost every year orchardists are persuaded to try some new, so-called
"blight cure" or preventative, only to find later that they have
wasted time and money in the experiment.

Government regulations regarding fake remedies of this character
are more strict than formerly, but there are still some agents trying
to dupe the public into buying their wares.

Blight, which is often referred to as apple blight, fire blight, or pear blight, is caused by
bacteria which live in the sap of the tree, and the principle followed
by the blight-doctor is to introduce something into the sap which
will prevent the working of the bacteria.

The remedies are applied in various ways. Sometimes the trunk is painted with a mixture of some
kind, or holes are bored into the trunk and these filled with a powder. The orchardist is sometimes
furnished with a box of nails as the first "course" and instructed
to drive these into the roots of the trees.

It is evident that anything introduced into the sap that is strong enough to kill the bacteria
living there will likewise damage the cell tissue of the tree, and result in more harm than
benefit. One powder that has been brought to the attention of the Experiment Station, sells for
$3.00 per pound, and is administered in teaspoonful "doses."

Such a preparation as this is probably harmless, but is a waste of
time and money.

It would have no effect on the tree or the blight.

Some of the agents not only claim that their remedies will cure blight,
but, due to ignorance or other causes, they also claim that trees
treated will be immune from attacks of certain insects.

Orchardists may rest assured that up to the present time, no real preventative or cure has been
found for blight, and that the only way it can be controlled is by cutting it out.--Colorado Agricultural
College.

IN MEMORIAM--MRS. E. CROSS.

Mrs. Erasmus Cross, of Sauk Rapids, and a member of the Minnesota
State Horticultural Society since 1888 (27 years), passed away at
that place on Tuesday, December 28th.

On December 16th Mrs. Cross sustained a painful injury by falling
on the floor and breaking her hip.

Owing to her advanced age, eighty-two years, the limb could not be set without the use of chloroform,
which could not be given on account of weakness of the heart. Death finally released her from her
suffering.

Mrs. Jane Cross was always very enthusiastic about the Horticultural Society and the good it
was doing, not only for this but other states. The ills of her age had prevented her from attending
the meetings these late years, though she often did so in earlier
years, but she always sent her fee through the writer, and eagerly
awaited her return from the meeting to hear of its stimulating success.

Mr. Cross died about six years ago.

Two sons, James, of St. Paul, and Robert, of Sauk Rapids, and two daughters, Mrs. Annie Nicholson,
of Hamline, and Mrs. Emma Sovereign, of Sauk Rapids, mourn her loss.

Our society has lost a most loyal friend.--Mrs. Jennie Stager, Sauk Rapids.

Notes from Prof. Alway's interesting and instructive talk on "Maintaining
the fertility of our gardens."

Requisites for proper plant growth are warmth, ventilation, root room, the absence of harmful alkalies
or animals that destroy the beneficial bacteria in the soil, water and plant food.

By far the most important requisite for growth is water. More plants
and crops fail because of the lack of a proper amount of it than from
any other cause.

Plenty of fresh air is needed by the plants, as
they derive a portion of their food from it.

They adapt themselves
largely to conditions as to root-room, a plant thriving in a pot,
but spreading to much greater root space when grown in the open with
plenty of room. The more restricted the root space, the more food
and water it will require.

The fourth requisite for growth does not
concern us as there are no alkali lands in the counties near the Twin
Cities, and the harmful minute animals that destroy the beneficial
bacteria in the soil are as a rule found only in greenhouses.

The
best fertilizer for the garden is the thorough use of the hose.

Each
year stable manures become harder to obtain, but the fertility of
the garden can be maintained by the use of commercial fertilizers,
which are more concentrated foods and are much easier to work with.

The
perfect plant food consists of nitrogen, phosphorus and potash. We
can obtain these in separate form and use as we need them.

Nitrogen
comes in the form of a salt, called nitrate of soda, and in dried
blood. The nitrate of soda is very soluble in water and is taken up
at once by the plant. It can be scattered upon the ground near but
not touching the plant, as in the latter case it would burn it. It
can also be dissolved in water--a tablespoonful to a pail--and the
ground, but not the plant, watered. Dried blood is slower in action
and requires warmth, so should not be used early in the season. Nitrogen
promotes quick and luxuriant growth of leaves and stems and is good
to use when a green growth of any kind is wished.

In bone meal we
find the phosphorus necessary to aid in the development of fine and
many flowers, to expand root growth and to hasten maturity. It works
slowly, so can be applied to the ground about a plant early in the
season, and will be available in the ground the following year if
enough is used. Equal parts of nitrate and bone meal can be used at
the rate of one to two pounds to every one hundred square feet.

Potash
is almost off the market, as a result of the war, the main supply
being imported from Germany. It can be obtained from hardwood ashes,
and every bit of these should be saved for the garden and stored in
a dry place where they will not become leached out by the action of
water.

April Spraying.--Snowball bushes and others that have been
troubled with aphides, or plant lice, the previous year should receive
a thorough spraying of Black Leaf No. 40 (an extract of forty per
cent. nicotine) before the leaf buds expand. For this early spraying,
two tablespoonsful of the extract can be used to every gallon of water.
It will stick to the branches better if some soap is dissolved in
it. This spray will kill most of the eggs of these pests, which will
be found near the leaf buds. When the leaves open another spraying
should be given to kill all those that escaped the first treatment.
For spraying after the leaves open use one tablespoonful to each gallon
of water.

* * * * *

Meeting of the Minnesota Garden Flower Society,
April 27th, St. Paul, Wilder Auditorium, Fifth and Washington Streets,
2:30 p.m.

Native Plants in the Garden Shall We Collect or Grow Our
Native Plants? Roadside Planting.

Bees are kept both for profit and
for pleasure. The old fashioned beekeeper with his hybrid bees, kept
in immovable hives, logs or boxes, did not derive much profit from
his bees. He kept them mostly for pastime. During the last fifteen
years men with new methods of management and modern equipment have
been rapidly superseding the picturesque old beekeepers. Modern beekeeping
courses are now taught in connection with our institutions of learning,
and young men full of energy and ambition are beginning to realize
that beekeeping is offering one of the few opportunities to make a
comfortable living with a comparatively small expense. Older beekeepers,
both on the farm and professional men, also are beginning to study
beekeeping. They attend short courses, subscribe to scientific bee
papers and study bee literature. With increased study and knowledge
the whole status of the beekeeping industry is just now undergoing
a rapid change. Professional beekeepers, men who devote their whole
time to beekeeping, are increasing, and more amateurs are turning
to professional beekeeping every year. Organizations of beekeepers
now exist in nearly every state. Their object is to spread knowledge
among their members and to secure better prices for their product
by co-operative marketing. When
they do come the coast is a pleasant country. The mountains reveal themselves, duskily green
upon the lower slopes, their sky-piercing summits crowned with snow caps which endure until
the sun comes to his full strength in July. The Gulf is a vista of purple-distant shore and
island, of shimmering sea. And the fishermen come out of winter quarters to overhaul boats
and gear against the first salmon run.

The blueback, a lively and toothsome fish, about which rages an ichthyological argument as
to whether he is a distant species of the salmon tribe or merely a half-grown coho, is the
first to show in great schools. The spring salmon is always in the Gulf, but the spring is
a finny mystery with no known rule for his comings and goings, nor his numbers. All the others,
the blueback, the sockeye, the hump, the coho, and the dog salmon, run in the order named.
They can be reckoned on as a man reckons on changes of the moon. These are the mainstay of
the salmon canners. Upon their taking fortunes have been built--and squandered--men have lived
and died, loved and hated, gone hungry and dressed their women in silks and furs. The can of
pink meat some inland chef dresses meticulously with parsley and sauces may have cost some
fisherman his life; a multiplicity of cases of salmon may have produced a divorce in the packer's
household. We eat this fine red fish and heave its container into the garbage tin, with no
care for the tragedy or humors that have attended its getting for us.

In the spring, when life takes on a new prompting, the blueback salmon shows first in the Gulf.
He cannot be taken by net or bait,--unless the bait be a small live herring. He may only be
taken in commercial quantities by a spinner or a wobbling spoon hook of silver or brass or
copper drawn through the water at slow speed. The dainty gear of the trout spinner gave birth
to the trolling fleets of the Pacific Coast.

At first the schools pass into the Straits of San Juan. Here the joint fleets of British Columbia
and of Puget Sound begin to harry them. A week or ten days later the vanguard will be off Nanaimo.
And in another week they will be breaking water like trout in a still pool around the rocky
base of the Ballenas Light and the kelp beds and reefs of Squitty Island.

By the time they were there, in late April, there were twenty local power boats to begin taking
them, for Jack MacRae made the rounds of Squitty to tell the fishermen that he was putting
on a carrier to take the first run of blueback to Vancouver markets.

They were a trifle pessimistic. Other buyers had tried it, men gambling on a shoestring for
a stake in the fish trade, buyers unable to make regular trips, whereby there was a tale of
many salmon rotted in waiting fish holds, through depending on a carrier that did not come.
What was the use of burning fuel, of tearing their fingers with the gear, of catching fish
to rot? Better to let them swim.

But since the Folly Bay cannery never opened until the fish ran to greater size and number,
the fishermen, chafing against inaction after an idle winter, took a chance and trolled for
Jack MacRae.

To the trailers' surprise they found themselves dealing with a new type of independent buyer,--a
man who could and did make his market trips with clocklike precision. If MacRae left Squitty
with a load on Monday, saying that he would be at Squitty Cove or Jenkins Island or Scottish
Bay by Tuesday evening, he was there.

He managed it by grace of an able sea boat, engined to drive through sea and wind, and by the
nerve and endurance to drive her in any weather. There were times when the Gulf spread placid
as a mill pond. There were trips when he drove through with three thousand salmon under battened
hatches, his decks awash from boarding seas, ten and twelve and fourteen hours of rough-and-tumble
work that brought him into the Narrows and the docks inside with smarting eyes and tired muscles,
his head splitting from the pound and clank of the engine and the fumes of gas and burned oil.

It was work, strain of mind and body, long hours filled with discomfort. But MacRae had never
shrunk from things like that. He was aware that few things worth while come easy. The world,
so far as he knew, seldom handed a man a fortune done up in tissue paper merely because he
happened to crave its possession. He was young and eager to do. There was a reasonable satisfaction
in the doing, even of the disagreeable, dirty tasks necessary, in beating the risks he sometimes
had to run. There was a secret triumph in overcoming difficulties as they arose. And he had
an object, which, if it did not always lie in the foreground of his mind, he was nevertheless
keen on attaining.

The risks and work and strain, perhaps because he put so much of himself into the thing, paid
from the beginning more than he had dared hope. He made a hundred dollars his first trip, paid
the trollers five cents a fish more on the second trip and cleared a hundred and fifty. In
the second week of his venture he struck a market almost bare of fresh salmon with thirty-seven
hundred shining bluebacks in his hold. He made seven hundred dollars on that single cargo.

A Greek buyer followed the Blackbird out through the Narrows that trip. MacRae beat him two
hours to the trolling fleet at Squitty, a fleet that was growing in numbers.

"Bluebacks are thirty-five cents," he said to the first man who ranged alongside to deliver.
"And I want to tell you something that you can talk over with the rest of the crowd. I have
a market for every fish this bunch can catch. If I can't handle them with the Blackbird, I'll
put on another boat. I'm not here to buy fish just till the Folly Bay cannery opens. I'll be
making regular trips to the end of the salmon season. My price will be as good as anybody's,
better than some. If Gower gets your bluebacks this season for twenty-five cents, it will be
because you want to make him a present. Meantime, there's another buyer an hour behind me.
I don't know what he'll pay. But whatever he pays there aren't enough salmon being caught here
yet to keep two carriers running. You can figure it out for yourself."

MacRae thought he knew his men. Nor was his judgment in error. The Greek hung around. In twenty-four
hours he got three hundred salmon. MacRae loaded nearly three thousand.

Once or twice after that he had competitive buyers in Squitty Cove and the various rendezvous
of the trolling fleet. But the fishermen had a loyalty born of shrewd reckoning. They knew
from experience the way of the itinerant buyer. They knew MacRae. Many of them had known his
father. If Jack MacRae had a market for all the salmon he could buy on the Gower grounds all
season, they saw where Folly Bay would buy no fish in the old take-it-or-leave it fashion.
They were keenly alive to the fact that they were getting mid-July prices in June, that Jack
MacRae was the first buyer who had not tried to hold down prices by pulling a poor mouth and
telling fairy tales of poor markets in town. He had jumped prices before there was any competitive
spur. They admired young MacRae. He had nerve; he kept his word.

Wherefore it did not take them long to decide that he was a good man to keep going. As a result
of this decision other casual buyers got few fish even when they met MacRae's price.

When he had run a little over a month MacRae took stock. He paid the Crow Harbor Canning Company,
which was Stubby Abbott's trading name, two hundred and fifty a month for charter of the Blackbird.
He had operating outlay for gas, oil, crushed ice, and wages for Vincent Ferrara, whom he took
on when he reached the limit of single-handed endurance. Over and above these expenses he had
cleared twenty-six hundred dollars.

That was only a beginning he knew,--only a beginning of profits and of work. He purposely thrust
the taking of salmon on young Ferrara, let him handle the cash, tally in the fish, watched
Vincent nonchalantly chuck out overripe salmon that careless trollers would as nonchalantly
heave in for fresh ones if they could get away with it. For Jack MacRae had it in his mind
to go as far and as fast as he could while the going was good. That meant a second carrier
on the run as soon as the Folly Bay cannery opened, and it meant that he must have in charge
of the second boat an able man whom he could trust. There was no question about trusting Vincent
Ferrara. It was only a matter of his ability to handle the job, and that he demonstrated to
MacRae's complete satisfaction.

Early in June MacRae went to Stubby Abbott.

"Have you sold the Bluebird yet?" he asked.

"I want to let three of those Bird boats go," Stubby told him. "I don't need 'em. They're dead
capital. But I haven't made a sale yet."

"Charter me the Bluebird on the same terms," Jack proposed.

"You're on. Things must be going good."

"Not too bad," MacRae admitted.

"Folly Bay opens the twentieth. We open July first," Stubby said abruptly. "How many bluebacks
are you going to get for us?"

"Just about all that are caught around Squitty Island," MacRae said quietly. "That's why I
want another carrier."

"Huh!" Stubby grunted. His tone was slightly incredulous. "You'll have to go some. Wish you
luck though. More you get the better for me."

"I expect to deliver sixty thousand bluebacks to Crow Harbor in July," MacRae said.

Stubby stared at him. His eyes twinkled.

"If you can do that in July, and in August too," he said, "I'll give you the Bluebird."

"No," MacRae smiled. "I'll buy her."

"Where will Folly Bay get off if you take that many fish away?" Stubby reflected.

"Don't know. And I don't care a hoot." MacRae shrugged his shoulders. "I'm fairly sure I can
do it. You don't care?"

"Do I? I'll shout to the world I don't," Stubby replied. "It's self-preservation with me. Let
old Horace look out for himself. He had his fingers in the pie while we were in France. I don't
have to have four hundred per cent profit to do business. Get the fish if you can, Jack, old
boy, even if it busts old Horace. Which it won't--and, as I told you, lack of them may bust me."

"By the way," Stubby said as MacRae rose to go, "don't you ever have an hour to spare in town?
You haven't been out at the house for six weeks."

MacRae held out his hands. They were red and cut and scarred, roughened, and sore from salt
water and ice-handling and fish slime.

"Wouldn't they look well clasping a wafer and a teacup," he laughed. "I'm working, Stub. When
I have an hour to spare I lie down and sleep. If I stopped to play every time I came to town--do
you think you'd get your sixty thousand bluebacks in July?"

Stubby looked at MacRae a second, at his work-torn hands and weary eyes.

"I guess you're right," he said slowly. "But the old stone house will still be up on the corner
when the salmon run is over. Don't forget that."

MacRae went off to Coal Harbor to take over the second carrier. And he wondered as he went
if it would all be such clear sailing, if it were possible that at the first thrust he had
found an open crack in Gower's armor through which he could prick the man and make him squirm.

He looked at his hands. When they fingered death as a daily task they had been soft, white,
delicate,--dainty instruments equally fit for the manipulation of aerial controls, machine
guns or teacups. Why should honest work prevent a man from meeting pleasant people amid pleasant
surroundings? Well, it was not the work itself, it was simply the effects of that gross labor.
On the American continent, at least, a man did not lose caste by following any honest occupation,--only
he could not work with the workers and flutter with the butterflies. MacRae, walking down the
street, communing with himself, knew that he must pay a penalty for working with his hands.
If he were a drone in uniform--necessarily a drone since the end of war--he could dance and
play, flirt with pretty girls, be a welcome guest in great houses, make the heroic past pay
social dividends.

It took nearly as much courage and endurance to work as it had taken to fight; indeed it took
rather more, at times, to keep on working. Theoretically he should not lose caste. Yet MacRae
knew he would,--unless he made a barrel of money. There had been stray straws in the past month.
There were, it seemed, very nice people who could not quite understand why an officer and a
gentleman should do work that wasn't,--well, not even clean. Not clean in the purely objective,
physical sense, like banking or brokerage, or teaching, or any of those semi-genteel occupations
which permit people to make a living without straining their backs or soiling their hands.
He wasn't even sure that Stubby Abbott--MacRae was ashamed of his cynicism when he got that
far. Stubby was a real man. Even if he needed a man or a man's activities in his business Stubby
wouldn't cultivate that man socially merely because he needed his producing capacity.

The solace for long hours and aching flesh and sleep-weary eyes was a glimpse of concrete reward,--money
which meant power, power to repay a debt, opportunity to repay an ancient score. It seemed
to Jack MacRae that his personal honor was involved in getting back all that broad sweep of
land which his father had claimed from the wilderness, that he must exact an eye for an eye
and a tooth for a tooth. That was the why of his unceasing energy, his uncomplaining endurance
of long hours in sea boots, the impatient facing of storms that threatened to delay. Man strives
under the spur of a vision, a deep longing, an imperative squaring of needs with desires. MacRae
moved under the whip of all three.

He was quite sanguine that he would succeed in this undertaking. But he had not looked much
beyond the first line of trenches which he planned to storm. They did not seem to him particularly
formidable. The Scotch had been credited with uncanny knowledge of the future. Jack MacRae,
however, though his Highland blood ran undiluted, had no such gift of prescience. He did not
know that the highway of modern industry is strewn with the casualties of commercial warfare.

CHAPTER VIII

Vested Rights

A small balcony over the porch of Gower's summer cottage commanded a wide sweep of the Gulf
south and east. That was one reason he had built there. He liked to overlook the sea, the waters
out of which he had taken a fortune, the highway of his collecting boats. He had to keep in
touch with the Folly Bay cannery while the rush of the pack was on. But he was getting more
fastidious as he grew older, and he no longer relished the odors of the cannery. There were
other places nearer the cannery than Cradle Bay, if none more sightly, where he could have
built a summer house. People wondered why he chose the point that frowned over Poor Man's Rock.
Even his own family had questioned his judgment. Particularly his wife. She complained of the
isolation. She insisted on a houseful of people when she was there, and as Vancouver was full
of eligible week-enders of both sexes her wish was always gratified. And no one except Betty
Gower ever knew that merely to sit looking out on the Gulf from that vantage point afforded
her father some inscrutable satisfaction.

On a day in mid-July Horace Gower stepped out on this balcony. He carried in his hand a pair
of prism binoculars. He took a casual look around. Then he put the glasses to his eyes and
scanned the Gulf with a slow, searching sweep. At first sight it seemed empty. Then far eastward
toward Vancouver his glass picked up two formless dots which alternately showed and disappeared.

Gower put down the glasses, seated himself in a grass chair, lighted a cigar and leaned back,
looking impersonally down on Point Old and the Rock. A big, slow swell rolled up off the Gulf,
breaking with a precisely spaced boom along the cliffs. For forty-eight hours a southeaster
had swept the sea, that rare phenomenon of a summer gale which did not blow itself out between
suns. This had been a wild tantrum, driving everything of small tonnage to the nearest shelter,
even delaying the big coasters.

One of these, trailing black smoke from two funnels, lifting white superstructure of cabins
high above her main deck, standing bold and clear in the mellow sunshine, steamed out of the
fairway between Squitty and Vancouver Island. But she gained scant heed from Gower. His eyes
kept turning to where those distant specks showed briefly between periods in the hollows of
the sea. They drew nearer. Gower finished his cigar in leisurely fashion. He focused the glass
again. He grunted something unintelligible. They were what he fully expected to behold as soon
as the southeaster ceased to whip the Gulf,--the Bluebird and the Blackbird, Jack MacRae's
two salmon carriers. They were walking up to Squitty in eight-knot boots. Through his glass
Gower watched them lift and fall, lurch and yaw, running with short bursts of speed on the
crest of a wave, laboring heavily in the trough, plowing steadily up through uneasy waters
to take the salmon that should go to feed the hungry machines at Folly Bay.

Gower laid aside the glasses. He smoked a second cigar down to a stub, resting his plump hands
on his plump stomach. He resembled a thoughtful Billiken in white flannels, a round-faced,
florid, middle-aged Billiken. By that time the two Bird boats had come up and parted on the
head of Squitty. The Bluebird, captained by Vin Ferrara, headed into the Cove. The Blackbird,
slashing along with a bone in her teeth, rounded Poor Man's Rock, cut across the mouth of Cradle
Bay, and stood on up the western shore.

"He knows every pot-hole where a troller can lie. He's not afraid of wind or sea or work. No
wonder he gets the fish. Those damned--"

Gower cut his soliloquy off in the middle to watch the Blackbird slide out of sight behind
a point. He knew all about Jack MacRae's operations, the wide swath he was cutting in the matter
of blueback salmon. The Folly Bay showing to date was a pointed reminder. Gower's cannery foreman
and fish collectors gave him profane accounts of MacRae's indefatigable raiding,--as it suited
them to regard his operations. What Gower did not know he made it his business to find out.
He sat now in his grass chair, a short, compact body of a man, with a heavy-jawed, powerful
face frowning in abstraction. Gower looked younger than his fifty-six years. There was little
gray in his light-brown hair. His blue eyes were clear and piercing. The thick roundness of
his body was not altogether composed of useless tissue. Even considered superficially he looked
what he really was, what he had been for many years,--a man accustomed to getting things done
according to his desire. He did not look like a man who would fight with crude weapons--such
as a pike pole--but nevertheless there was the undeniable impression of latent force, of aggressive
possibilities, of the will and the ability to rudely dispose of things which might become obstacles
in his way. And the current history of him in the Gulf of Georgia did not belie such an impression.

He left the balcony at last. He appeared next moving, with the stumpy, ungraceful stride peculiar
to the short and thick-bodied, down the walk to a float. From this he hailed the Arrow, and
a boy came in, rowing a dinghy.

When Gower reached the cruiser's deck he cocked his ear at voices in the after cabin. He put
his head through the companion hatch. Betty Gower and Nelly Abbott were curled up on a berth,
chuckling to each other over some exchange of confidences.

"Thought you were ashore," Gower grunted.

"Oh, the rest of the crowd went off on a hike into the woods, so we came out here to look around.
Nelly hasn't seen the Arrow inside since it was done over," Betty replied.

"I'm going to Folly Bay," Gower said. "Will you go ashore?"

"Far from such," Betty returned. "I'd as soon go to the cannery as anywhere. Can't we, daddy?"

"Oh, yes. Bit of a swell though. You may be sick."

Betty laughed. That was a standing joke between them. She had never been seasick. Nelly Abbott
declared that if there was anything she loved it was to ride the dead swell that ran after
a storm. They came up out of the cabin to watch the mooring line cast off, and to wave handkerchiefs
at the empty cottage porches as the Arrow backed and straightened and swept out of the bay.

The Arrow was engined to justify her name. But the swell was heavier than it looked from shore.
No craft, even a sixty-footer built for speed, finds her speed lines a thing of comfort in
heavy going. Until the Arrow passed into the lee of an island group halfway along Squitty she
made less time than a fishing boat, and she rolled and twisted uncomfortably. If Horace Gower
had a mind to reach Folly Bay before the Blackbird he could not have done so. However, he gave
no hint of such intention. He kept to the deck. The girls stayed below until the big cruiser
struck easier going and a faster gait. Then they joined Gower.

The three of them stood by the rail just abaft the pilot house when the Arrow turned into the
half-mile breadth of Folly Bay. The cannery loomed white on shore, with a couple of purse seiners
and a tender or two tied at the slips. And four hundred yards off the cannery wharf the Blackbird
had dropped anchor and lay now, a dozen trolling boats clustered about her to deliver fish.

"Slow up and stop abreast of that buyer," Gower ordered.

The Arrow's skipper brought his vessel to a standstill within a boat-length of the Blackbird.

"Why, that's Jack MacRae," Nelly Abbott exclaimed. "Hoo-hoo, Johnny!"

She waved both hands for good measure. MacRae, bareheaded, sleeves rolled above his elbows,
standing in hip boots of rubber on a deck wet and slippery with water and fish slime, amid
piles of gleaming salmon, recognized her easily enough. He waved greeting, but his gaze only
for that one recognizing instant left the salmon that were landing flop, flop on the Blackbird's
deck out of a troller's fish well. He made out a slip, handed the troller some currency. There
was a brief exchange of words between them. The man nodded, pushed off his boat. Instantly
another edged into the vacant place. Salmon began to fall on the deck, heaved up on a picaroon.
At the other end of the fish hold another of the Ferrara boys was tallying in fish.

"Old crab," Nelly Abbott murmured. "He doesn't even look at us."

"He's counting salmon, silly," Betty explained. "How can he?"

There was no particular inflection in her voice. Nevertheless Horace Gower shot a sidelong
glance at his daughter. She also waved a hand pleasantly to Jack MacRae, who had faced about now.

"Why don't you say you're glad to see us, old dear?" Nelly Abbott suggested bluntly, and smiling
so that all her white teeth gleamed and her eyes twinkled mischievously.

"Tickled to death," MacRae called back. He went through the pantomime of shaking hands with
himself. His lips parted in a smile. "But I'm the busiest thing afloat right now. See you later."

"Nerve," Horace Gower muttered under his breath.

"Not if we see you first," Nelly Abbott retorted.

"It's not likely you will," MacRae laughed.

He turned back to his work. The fisherman alongside was tall and surly looking, a leathery-faced
individual with a marked scowl. He heaved half a dozen salmon up on the Blackbird. Then he
climbed up himself. He towered over Jack MacRae, and MacRae was not exactly a small man. He
said something, his hands on his hips. MacRae looked at him. He seemed to be making some reply.
And he stepped back from the man. Every other fisherman turned his face toward the Blackbird's
deck. Their clattering talk stopped short.

The man leaned forward. His hands left his hips, drew into doubled fists, extended threateningly.
He took a step toward MacRae.

And MacRae suddenly lunged forward, as if propelled by some invisible spring of tremendous
force. With incredible swiftness his left hand and then his right shot at the man's face. The
two blows sounded like two open-handed smacks. But the fisherman sagged, went lurching backward.
His heels caught on the Blackbird's bulwark and he pitched backward head-first into the hold
of his own boat.

MacRae picked up the salmon and flung them one by one after the man, with no great haste, but
with little care where they fell, for one or two spattered against the fellow's face as he
clawed up out of his own hold. There was a smear of red on his lips.

"Oh! My goodness gracious, sakes alive!"

Nelly Abbott grasped Betty by the arm and murmured these expletives as much in a spirit of
deviltry as of shock. Her eyes danced.

"Did you see that?" she whispered. "I never saw two men fight before. I'd hate to have Jack
MacRae hit me."

But Betty was holding her breath, for MacRae had picked up a twelve-foot pike pole, a thing
with an ugly point and a hook of iron on its tip. He only used it, however, to shove away the
boat containing the man he had so savagely smashed. And while he did that Gower curtly issued
an order, and the Arrow slid on to the cannery wharf.

Nelly went below for something. Betty stood by the rail, staring back thoughtfully, unaware
that her father was keenly watching the look on her face, with an odd expression in his own eyes.

"You saw quite a lot of young MacRae last spring, didn't you?" he asked abruptly. "Do you like
him?"

A faint touch of color leaped into her cheeks. She met her father's glance with an inquiring
one of her own.

"Well--yes. Rather," she said at last. "He's a nice boy."

"Better not," Gower rumbled. His frown grew deeper. His teeth clamped a cigar in one corner
of his mouth at an aggressive angle. "Granted that he is what you call a nice boy. I'll admit
he's good-looking and that he dances well. And he seems to pack a punch up his sleeve. I'd
suggest that you don't cultivate any romantic fancy for him. Because he's making himself a
nuisance in my business--and I'm going to smash him."

Gower turned away. If he had lingered he might have observed unmistakable signs of temper.
Betty flew storm signals from cheek and eye. She looked after her father with something akin
to defiance, likewise with an air of astonishment.

"As if I--" she left the whispered sentence unfinished.

She perched herself on the mahogany-capped rail, and while she waited for Nelly Abbott she
gave herself up to thinking of herself and her father and her father's amazing warning which
carried a veiled threat,--an open threat so far as Jack MacRae was concerned. Why should he
cut loose like that on her?

She stared thoughtfully at the Blackbird, marked the trollers slipping in from the grounds
and clustering around the chunky carrier.

It might have interested Mr. Horace Gower could he have received a verbatim report of his daughter's
reflections for the next five minutes. But whether it would have pleased him it is hard to say.

CHAPTER IX

The Complexity of Simple Matters

The army, for a period extending over many months, had imposed a rigid discipline on Jack MacRae.
The Air Service had bestowed upon him a less rigorous discipline, but a far more exacting self-control.
He was not precisely aware of it, but those four years had saved him from being a firebrand
of sorts in his present situation, because there resided in him a fiery temper and a capacity
for passionate extremes, and those years in the King's uniform, whatever else they may have
done for him, had placed upon his headlong impulses manifold checks, taught him the vital necessity
of restraint, the value of restraint.

If the war had made human life seem a cheap and perishable commodity, it had also worked to
give men like MacRae a high sense of honor, to accentuate a natural distaste for lying and
cheating, for anything that was mean, petty, ignoble. Perhaps the Air Service was unique in
that it was at once the most dangerous and the most democratic and the most individual of all
the organizations that fought the Germans. It had high standards. The airmen were all young,
the pick of the nations, clean, eager, vigorous boys whose ideals were still undimmed. They
lived and--as it happened--died in big moments. They trained with the gods in airy spaces and
became men, those who survived.

And the gods may launch destroying thunderbolts, but they do not lie or cheat or steal. An
honest man may respect an honest enemy, and be roused to murderous fury by a common rascal's
trickery.

When MacRae dropped his hook in Folly Bay he was two days overdue, for the first time in his
fish-running venture. The trollers had promised to hold their fish. The first man alongside
to deliver reminded him of this.

"Southeaster held you up, eh?" said he. "We fished in the lee off the top end. But we might
as well have laid in. Held 'em too long for you."

"They spoiled before you could slough them on the cannery, eh?" MacRae observed.

"Most of mine did. They took some."

"How many of your fish went bad?" Jack asked.

"About twenty-five, I guess."

MacRae finished checking the salmon the fisherman heaved up on the deck. He made out two slips
and handed the man his money.

"I'm paying you for the lost fish," he said. "I told you to hold them for me. I want you to
hold them. If I can't get here on time, it's my loss, not yours."

The fisherman looked at the money in his hand and up at MacRae.

"Well," he said, "you're the first buyer I ever seen do that. You're all right, all right."

There were variations of this. Some of the trollers, weatherwise old sea-dogs, had foreseen
that the Blackbird could not face that blow, and they had sold their fish. Others had held
on. These, who were all men MacRae knew, he paid according to their own estimate of loss. He
did not argue. He accepted their word. It was an astonishing experience for the trolling fleet.
They had never found a buyer willing to make good a loss of that kind.

But there were other folk afloat besides simple, honest fishermen who would not lie for the
price of one salmon or forty. When the Arrow drew abreast and stopped, a boat had pushed in
beside the Blackbird. The fisherman in it put half a dozen bluebacks on the deck and clambered
up himself.

"You owe me for thirty besides them," he announced.

"How's that?" MacRae asked coolly.

But he was not cool inside. He knew the man, a preemptor of Folly Bay, a truckler to the cannery
because he was always in debt to the cannery,--and a quarrelsome individual besides, who took
advantage of his size and strength to browbeat less able men.

MacRae had got few salmon off Sam Kaye since the cannery opened. He had never asked Kaye to
hold fish for him. He knew instantly what was in Kaye's mind; it had flitted from one boat
to another that MacRae was making good the loss of salmon held for him, and Kaye was going
to get in on this easy money if he could bluff it through.

He stood on the Blackbird's deck, snarlingly demanding payment for thirty fish. MacRae looked
at him silently. He hated brawling, acrimonious dispute. He was loth to a common row at that
moment, because he was acutely conscious of the two girls watching. But he was even more conscious
of Gower's stare and the curious expectancy of the fishermen clustered about his stern.

Kaye was simply trying to do him out of fifteen dollars. MacRae knew it. He knew that the fishermen
knew it,--and he had a suspicion that Folly Bay might not be unaware, or averse, to Sam Kaye
taking a fall out of him. Folly Bay had tried other unpleasant tricks.

"That doesn't go for you, Kaye," he said quietly. "I know your game. Get off my boat and take
your fish with you."

Sam Kaye glowered threateningly. He had cowed men before with the fierceness of his look. He
was long-armed and raw-boned, and he rather fancied himself in a rough and tumble. He was quite
blissfully ignorant that Jack MacRae was stewing under his outward calmness. Kaye took a step
forward, with an intimidating thrust of his jaw.

MacRae smashed him squarely in the mouth with a straight left, and hooked him somewhere on
the chin with a wicked right cross. Either blow was sufficient to knock any ordinary man down.
There was a deceptive power in MacRae's slenderness, which was not so much slenderness as perfect
bodily symmetry. He weighed within ten pounds as much as Sam Kaye, although he did not look
it, and he was as quick as a playful kitten. Kaye went down, as told before. He lifted a dazed
countenance above the cockpit as MacRae shoved his craft clear.

The fishermen broke the silence with ribald laughter. They knew Kaye's game too.

MacRae left Folly Bay later in the afternoon, poorer by many dollars paid for rotten salmon.
He wasn't in a particularly genial mood. The Sam Kaye affair had come at an inopportune moment.
He didn't care to stand out as a bruiser. Still, he asked himself irritably, why should he
care because Nelly Abbott and Betty Gower had seen him using his fists? He was perfectly justified.
Indeed, he knew very well he could have done nothing else. The trailers had chortled over the
outcome. These were matters they could understand and appreciate. Even Steve Ferrara looked
at him enviously.

"It makes me wish I'd dodged the gas," Steve said wistfully. "It's hell to wheeze your breath
in and out. By jiminy, you're wicked with your hands, Jack. Did you box much in France?"

"Quite a lot," MacRae replied. "Some of the fellows in our squadron were pretty clever. We
used the gloves quite a bit."

"And you're naturally quick," Steve drawled. "Now, me, the gas has cooked my goose. I'd have
to bat Kaye over the head with an oar. Gee, he sure got a surprise."

They both laughed. Even upon his bloody face--as he rose out of his own fish hold--bewildered
astonishment had been Sam Kaye's chief expression.

The Blackbird went her rounds. At noon the next day she met Vincent Ferrara with her sister
ship, and the two boats made one load for the Blackbird. She headed south. With high noon,
too, came the summer westerly, screeching and whistling and lashing the Gulf to a brief fury.

It was the regular summer wind, a yachtsman's gale. Four days out of six its cycle ran the
same, a breeze rising at ten o'clock, stiffening to a healthy blow, a mere sigh at sundown.
Midnight would find the sea smooth as a mirror, the heaving swell killed by changing tides.

So the Blackbird ran down Squitty, rolling and yawing through a following sea, and turned into
Squitty Cove to rest till night and calm settled on the Gulf.

When her mudhook was down in that peaceful nook, Steve Ferrara turned into his bunk to get
a few hours' sleep against the long night watch. MacRae stirred wakeful on the sun-hot deck,
slushing it down with buckets of sea water to save his ice and fish. He coiled ropes, made
his vessel neat, and sat him down to think. Squitty Cove always stirred him to introspection.
His mind leaped always to the manifold suggestions of any well-remembered place. He could shut
his eyes and see the old log house behind its leafy screen of alder and maple at the Cove's
head. The rosebushes before it were laden with bloom now. At his hand were the gray cliffs
backed by grassy patches, running away inland to virgin forest. He felt dispossessed of those
noble acres. He was always seeing them through his father's eyes, feeling as Donald MacRae
must have felt in those last, lonely years of which he had written in simple language that
had wrung his son's heart.

But it never occurred to Jack MacRae that his father, pouring out the tale of those troubled
years, had bestowed upon him an equivocal heritage.

He slid overboard the small skiff the Blackbird carried and rowed ashore. There were rowboat
trollers on the beach asleep in their tents and rude lean-tos. He walked over the low ridge
behind which stood Peter Ferrara's house. It was hot, the wooded heights of the island shutting
off the cool westerly. On such a day Peter Ferrara should be dozing on his porch and Dolly
perhaps mending stockings or sewing in a rocker beside him.

But the porch was bare. As MacRae drew near the house a man came out the door and down the
three low steps. He was short and thick-set, young, quite fair, inclined already to floridness
of skin. MacRae knew him at once for Norman Gower. He was a typical Gower,--a second edition
of his father, save that his face was less suggestive of power, less heavily marked with sullenness.

He glanced with blank indifference at Jack MacRae, passed within six feet and walked along
the path which ran around the head of the Cove. MacRae watched him. He would cross between
the boathouse and the roses in MacRae's dooryard. MacRae had an impulse to stride after him,
to forbid harshly any such trespass on MacRae ground. But he smiled at that childishness. It
was childish, MacRae knew. But he felt that way about it, just as he often felt that he himself
had a perfect right to range the whole end of Squitty, to tramp across greensward and through
forest depths, despite Horace Gower's legal title to the land. MacRae was aware of this anomaly
in his attitude, without troubling to analyze it.

He walked into old Peter's house without announcement beyond his footsteps on the floor, as
he had been accustomed to do as far back as he could remember. Dolly was sitting beside a little
table, her chin in her palms. There was a droop to her body that disturbed MacRae. She had
sat for hours like that the night his father died. And there was now on her face something
of the same look of sad resignation and pity. Her big, dark eyes were misty, troubled, when
she lifted them to MacRae.

"Hello, Jack," she said.

He came up to her, put his hands on her shoulders.

"What is it now?" he demanded. "I saw Norman Gower leaving as I came up. And here you're looking--what's
wrong?"

His tone was imperative.

"Nothing, Johnny."

"You don't cry for nothing. You're not that kind," MacRae replied. "That chunky lobster hasn't
given you the glooms, surely?"

Dolly's eyes flashed.

"It isn't like you to call names," she declared. "It isn't nice. And--and what business of
yours is it whether I laugh or cry?"

MacRae smiled. Dolly in a temper was not wholly strange to him. He was struck with her remarkable
beauty every time he saw her. She was altogether too beautiful a flower to be blushing unseen
on an island in the Gulf. He shook her gently.

"Because I'm big brother. Because you and I were kids together for years before we ever knew
there could be serpents in Eden. Because anything that hurts you hurts me. I don't like anything
to make you cry, mia Dolores. I'd wring Norman Gower's chubby neck with great pleasure if I
thought he could do that. I didn't even know you knew him."

Dolly dabbed at her eyes with a handkerchief.

"There are lots of things you don't know, Jack MacRae," she murmured. "Besides, why shouldn't
I know Norman?"

MacRae threw out his hands helplessly.

"No law against it, of course," he admitted. "Only--well--"

He was conscious of floundering, with her grave, dark eyes searching his face. There was no
reason save his own hostility to anything Gower,--and Dolly knew no basis for that save the
fact that Horace Gower had acquired his father's ranch. That could not possibly be a ground
for Dolores Ferrara to frown on any Gower, male or female, who happened to come her way.

"Why, I suppose it really is none of my business," he said slowly. "Except that I can't help
being concerned in anything that makes you unhappy. That's all."

He sat down on the arm of her chair and patted her cheek. To his utter amazement Dolly broke
into a storm of tears. Long ago he had seen Dolly cry when she had hurt herself, because he
had teased her, because she was angry or disappointed. He had never seen any woman cry as she
did now. It was not just simple grieved weeping. It was a tempest that shook her. Her body
quivered, her breath came in gasping bursts between racking sobs.

MacRae gathered her into his arms, trying to dam that wild flood. She put her face against
him and clung there, trembling like some hunted thing seeking refuge, mysteriously stirring
MacRae with the passionate abandon of her tears, filling him with vague apprehensions, with
a strange excitement.

Like the tornado, swift in its striking and passing, so this storm passed. Dolly's sobbing
ceased. She rested passively in his arms for a minute. Then she sighed, brushed the cloudy
hair out of her eyes, and looked up at him.

"I wonder why I should go all to pieces like that so suddenly?" she muttered. "And why I should
somehow feel better for it?"

"I don't know," MacRae said. "Maybe I could tell you if I knew why you went off like that.
You poor little devil. Something has stung you deep, I know."

"Yes," she admitted. "I hope nothing like it ever comes to you, Jack. I'm bleeding internally.
Oh, it hurts, it hurts!"

She laid her head against him and cried again softly.

"Tell me," he whispered.

"Why not?" She lifted her head after a little. "You could always keep things to yourself. It
wasn't much wonder they called you Silent John. Do you know I never really grasped The Ancient
Mariner until now? People must tell their troubles to some one--or they'd corrode inside."

"Go ahead," MacRae encouraged.

"When Norman Gower went overseas we were engaged," she said bluntly, and stopped. She was not
looking at MacRae now. She stared at the opposite wall, her fingers locked together in her lap.

"For four years," she went on, "I've been hoping, dreaming, waiting, loving. To-day he came
home to tell me that he married in England two years ago. Married in the madness of a drunken
hour--that is how he puts it--a girl who didn't care for anything but the good time his rank
and pay could give her."

"I think you're in luck," MacRae said soberly.

"What queer creatures men are!" She seemed not to have heard him--to be thinking her own thoughts
out loud. "He says he loves me, that he has loved me all the time, that he feels as if he had
been walking in his sleep and fallen into some muddy hole. And I believe him. It's terrible,
Johnny."

"It's impossible," MacRae declared savagely. "If he's got in that kind of a hole, let him stay
there. You're well out of it. You ought to be glad."

"But I'm not," she said sadly. "I'm not made that way. I can't let a thing become a vital part
of my life and give it up without a pang."

"I don't see what else you can do," MacRae observed. "Only brace up and forget it."

"It isn't quite so simple as that," she sighed. "Norman's w--this woman presently got tired
of him. Evidently she had no scruples about getting what she wanted, nor how. She went away
with another man. Norman is getting a divorce--the decree absolute will be granted in March
next. He wants me to marry him."

"Will you?"

Dolly looked up to meet MacRae's wondering stare. She nodded.

"You're a triple-plated fool," he said roughly.

"I don't know," she replied thoughtfully. "Norman certainly has been. Perhaps I am too. We
should get on--a pair of fools together."

The bitterness in her voice stung MacRae.

"You really should have loved me," he said, "and I you."

"But you don't, Jack. You have never thought of that before."

"I could, quite easily."

Dolly considered this a moment.

"No," she said. "You like me. I know that, Johnny. I like you, too. You are a man, and I'm
a woman. But if you weren't bursting with sympathy you wouldn't have thought of that. If Norman
had some of your backbone--but it wouldn't make any difference. If you know what it is that
draws a certain man and woman together in spite of themselves, in spite of things they can
see in each other that they don't quite like, I dare say you'd understand. I don't think I
do. Norman Gower has made me dreadfully unhappy. But I loved him before he went away, and I
love him yet. I want him just the same. And he says--he says--that he never stopped caring
for me--that it was like a bad dream. I believe him. I'm sure of it. He didn't lie to me. And
I can't hate him. I can't punish him without punishing myself. I don't want to punish him,
any more than I would want to punish a baby, if I had one, for a naughtiness it couldn't help."

"So you'll marry him eventually?" MacRae asked.

Dolly nodded.

"If he doesn't change his mind," she murmured. "Oh, I shouldn't say ugly things like that.
It sounds cheap and mean."

"But it hurts, it hurts me so to think of it," she broke out passionately. "I can forgive him,
because I can see how it happened. Still it hurts. I feel cheated--cheated!"

She lay back in her chair, fingers locked together, red lips parted over white teeth that were
clenched together. Her eyes glowed somberly, looking away through distant spaces.

And MacRae, conscious that she had said her say, feeling that she wanted to be alone, as he
himself always wanted to fight a grief or a hurt alone and in silence, walked out into the
sunshine, where the westerly droned high above in the swaying fir tops.

He went up the path around the Cove's head to the porch of his own house, sat down on the top
step, and cursed the Gowers, root and branch. He hated them, everything of the name and blood,
at that moment, with a profound and active hatred.

They were like a blight, as their lives touched the lives of other people. They sat in the
seats of the mighty, and for their pleasure or their whims others must sweat and suffer. So
it seemed to Jack MacRae.

Home, these crowded, hurrying days, was aboard the Blackbird. It was pleasant now to sit on
his own doorstep and smell the delicate perfume of the roses and the balsamy odors from the
woods behind. But the rooms depressed him when he went in. They were dusty and silent, abandoned
to that forsaken air which rests upon uninhabited dwellings. MacRae went out again, to stride
aimlessly along the cliffs past the mouth of the Cove.

Beyond the lee of the island the westerly still lashed the Gulf. The white horses galloped
on a gray-green field. MacRae found a grassy place in the shade of an arbutus, and lay down
to rest and watch. Sunset would bring calm, a dying wind, new colors to sea and sky and mountains.
It would send him away on the long run to Crow Harbor, driving through the night under the
cool stars.

No matter what happened people must be fed. Food was vital. Men lost their lives at the fishing,
but it went on. Hearts might be torn, but hands still plied the gear. Life had a bad taste
in Jack MacRae's mouth as he lay there under the red-barked tree. Again, what is harsher than
this epigram?

You from your soul could not but know mine that That gave up in your ghost but just now his: As
soul is known from soul so is your ghost Known to the Muses by my muse that's yours.

Or than this distich?

Forward, nor turn from the old path one bit: This that you are I while I live shall be.[4]

But just as it is a considerable fault in diction wholly to neglect the pleasure of the ear,
since verse, as we said, was devised to flatter it, so on the other
hand those writers make a grievous mistake who have an immoderate
regard for the ear, and pay no attention to the thought so long as
they are satisfied with the sound.

Out of such concern we get tuneful trifles and verses empty of substance.

Writers who have by an attentive consideration of the poets achieved
the faculty of poetic diction and rhythm quite often fall into this
error.

They abound in choice phrases and so are in effect content to smooth
over the commonplace with a not indecorous make-up.

You can see this in many poems and epigrams of Buchanan, Borbonius, and Barleius. If the reader
is not quite attentive such poems will often deceive him, but being re-read and examined they
beget a kind of distaste because of the thinness of the matter. Consequently, we have looked carefully
for this fault, and have eliminated many poems that are melodious in this way and have nothing
inside.

How diction should be suited to subject-matter.

We come now to the question of conforming the diction and subject-matter to nature, in which,
as was said above, nature must be considered in its double aspect: namely, in relation to the
subjects of which we speak, and in relation to the audience by whom we are heard or read.

The
agreement of words and subject consists in this: that lofty words should be fitted to lofty
subjects, and lowly to lowly. It is true, of course, that every kind of writing demands simplicity,
but the simplicity meant is such as does not exclude sublimity or vehemence. In fact, it is
no less faulty to treat high and weighty subjects in a slight and unassuming style than it is
to treat what is slight and unassuming in a high and weighty style.

In both of these ways one departs from that agreement with nature in which, we have said, beauty
resides. Therefore, not every piece of writing admits the rhetorical figures and ornaments,
and likewise not every one excludes them. The answer lies wholly in whether there is throughout
a complete harmony between diction and subject.

In addition, I wish you would carefully observe something that few do--namely, when you temper
your diction to the subject, to regard it not only as it is in itself or in the mind of the
writer, but also as it has been formed by your speech in the minds of your audience. Thus,
the reader is assumed to be unacquainted with what you have to say at the beginning of a work, and
hence you must use simple language to initiate him into your lines of thought. Afterwards you
may build upon this foundation what you can. It follows that if you are to speak of some outrageous
crime, you should not inveigh against it with a comparable violence of diction until your audience
has achieved such a notion of the crime as will not be at odds with
such force and violence.

Thus Vergil begins in the best way with simple diction:

Arms and the man I sing who first from Troy Banished by fate came
to the Italian shore.

And Homer, too, who was praised for this by Horace:

Speak to me, Muse, of him, when Troy had fallen, Who saw the ways
of many and their cities.

But Statius begins badly, and sweeps the reader away too suddenly in these verses:
Fraternal arms, and alternate rule by hate Profane contested, and
the guilt of Thebes I sing, moved by the fiery Muse.

Claudian is
even more at fault, and thrusts these bombastic lines on our unprepared
attention:

The horses of Hell's rapist, the stars blown By the Taenarian
chariot, chambers dark Of lower Juno ...

But this rule should particularly
be observed in the use of adjectives, which are always ill-joined
with their noun when they disaccord with the impression the reader
has in his mind. I have seen the opening of Lucan censured on this
point:

Wars through Emathian fields, wars worse than civil, And crime
made legal is my song.

The critics urge that the epithet worse than
civil could justly be employed after the depiction of the slaughter
at Pharsalia, but that here it is out of order and suddenly attacks
the reader who was thinking of no such thing. It offends against the
precept of Horace:

Not smoke from brightness is his aim, but light
He gives from smoke.[5]

In what way diction should answer to man's
inner nature. Canneries and buyers alike have systematically
given him the worst of the deal. You don't cut your cannery hands' pay because on certain days
your pack falls off."

"Hardly."

"But canneries and collectors and every independent buyer have always used any old pretext
to cut the price to the fisherman out on the grounds. And while a fisherman has to take what
he is offered he doesn't have to keep on taking it. He can quit, and try something else. Lots
of them have done that. That's why there are three Japanese to every white salmon fisherman
on the British Columbia coast. That is why we have an Oriental problem. The Japs are making
the canneries squeal, aren't they?"

"Rather." Stubby smiled. "They are getting to be a bit of a problem."

"The packers got them in here as cheap labor in the salmon fishing," MacRae went on. "The white
fisherman was too independent. He wanted all he could get out of his work. He was a kicker,
as well as a good fisherman. The packers thought they could keep wages down and profits up
by importing the Jap--cheap labor with a low standard of living. And the Jap has turned the
tables on the big fellows. They hang together, as aliens always do in a strange country, and
the war has helped them freeze the white fisherman out on one hand and exact more and more
from the canneries on the other. And that would never have happened if this had been kept a
white man's country, and the white fisherman had got a square deal."

"To buy as cheaply as you can and sell for as much as you can," Stubby reminded him, "is a
fundamental of business. You can't get away from it. My father abandoned that maxim the last
two years of his life, and it nearly broke us. He was a public-spirited man. He took war and
war-time conditions to heart. In a period of jumping food costs he tried to give people cheaper
food. As I said, he nearly went broke trying to do a public service, because no one else in
the same business departed from the business rule of making all they could. In fact, men in
the same business, I have since learned, were the first to sharpen their knives for him. He
was establishing a bad precedent. I don't know but their attitude is sound, after all. In sheer
self-defense a man must make all he can when he has a chance. You cannot indulge in philanthropy
in a business undertaking these days, Silent John."

"Granted," MacRae made answer. "I don't propose to be a philanthropist myself. But you will
get farther with a salmon fisherman, or any other man whose labor you must depend on, if you
accept the principle that he is entitled to make a dollar as well as yourself, if you don't
stretch every point to take advantage of his necessity. These fellows who fish around Squitty
have been gouged and cheated a lot. They aren't fools. They know pretty well who makes the
long profit, who pile up moderate fortunes while they get only a living, and not a particularly
good living at that."

"Are you turning Bolshevik?" Stubby inquired with mock solicitude.

MacRae smiled.

"Hardly. Nor are the fishermen. They know I'm making money. But they know also that they are
getting more out of it than they ever got before, and that if I were not on the job they would
get a lot less."

"They certainly would," Abbott drawled. "You have been, and are now, paying more for blueback
salmon than any buyer on the Gulf."

"Well, it has paid me. And it has been highly profitable to you, hasn't it?" MacRae said. "You've
had a hundred thousand salmon to pack which you would not otherwise have had."

"Certainly," Stubby agreed. "I'm not questioning your logic. In this case it has paid us both,
and the fisherman as well. But suppose everybody did it?"

"If you can pay sixty cents a fish, and fifteen per cent, on top of that and pack profitably,
why can't other canneries? Why can't Folly Bay meet that competition? Rather, why won't they?"

"Matter of policy, maybe," Stubby hazarded. "Matter of keeping costs down. Apart from a few
little fresh-fish buyers, you are the only operator on the Gulf who is cutting any particular
ice. Gower may figure that he will eventually get these fish at his own price. If I were eliminated,
he would."

"I'd still be on the job," MacRae ventured.

"Would you, though?" Stubby asked doubtfully.

"Yes." MacRae made his reply positive in tone. "You could buy all right. That Squitty Island
bunch of trollers seem convinced you are the whole noise in the salmon line. But without Crow
Harbor where could you unload such quantities of fish?"

It struck MacRae that there was something more than mere casual speculation in Stubby's words.
But he did not attempt to delve into motives.

"A good general," he said with a dry smile, "doesn't advertise his plan of campaign in advance.
Without Crow Harbor as a market I could not have done what I have done this season. But Crow
Harbor could shut down to-morrow--and I'd go on just the same."

Stubby poked thoughtfully with a pencil at the blotter on his desk.

"Well, Jack, I may as well be quite frank with you," he said at last. "I have had hints that
may mean something. The big run will be over at Squitty in another month. I don't believe I
can be dictated to on short notice. But I cannot positively say. If you can see your way to
carry on, it will be quite a relief to me. Another season it may be different."

"I think I can."

But though MacRae said this confidently, he was privately not so sure. From the very beginning
he had expected pressure to come on Stubby, as the active head of Crow Harbor. It was as Stubby
said. Unless he--MacRae--had a market for his fish, he could not buy. And within the limits
of British Columbia the salmon market was subject to control; by just what means MacRae had
got inklings here and there. He had not been deceived by the smoothness of his operations so
far. Below the clear horizon there was a storm gathering. A man like Gower did not lie down
and submit passively to being beaten at his own game.

But MacRae believed he had gone too far to be stopped now, even if his tactics did not please
the cannery interests. They could have squelched him easily enough in the beginning, when he
had no funds to speak of, when his capital was mostly a capacity for hard, dirty work and a
willingness to take chances. Already he had run his original shoestring to fifteen thousand
dollars cash in hand. It scarcely seemed possible. It gave him a startling vision of the profits
in the salmon industry, and it was not a tenable theory that men who had controlled such a
source of profits would sit idle while he undermined their monopoly. Nevertheless he had made
that much money in four months. He had at his back a hundred fishermen who knew him, liked
him, trusted him, who were anxious that he should prosper, because they felt that they were
sharing in that prosperity. Ninety per cent. of these men had a grievance against the canneries.
And he had the good will of these men with sun-browned faces and hook-scarred hands. The human
equation in industrial processes is a highly important one, as older, wiser men than Jack MacRae
had been a longer time discovering.

He did not try to pin Stubby to a more definite statement. A hint was enough for MacRae. Stubby
Abbott could also be depended upon to see things beyond the horizon. If a storm broke Stubby
was the most vulnerable, because in a sense he was involved with the cannery interests in general,
and they would consider him an apostate and knife him without mercy,--if they could. If the
Abbott estate had debts, obligations which could be manipulated, if through the financial convolutions
of marketing the Crow Harbor pack Stubby could be reached, the Abbott family had property,
a standard of living that stood for comfort, appearance, luxury almost. There are always plenty
of roads open to a flank attack on people like that; many levers, financial and otherwise,
can be pulled for or against them.

So MacRae, knowing that Stubby must protect himself in a showdown, set about fortifying his
own approaches.

For a first move he hired an engineer, put Steve Ferrara in charge of the Blackbird, and started
him back to Squitty. Then MacRae took the next train to Bellingham, a cannery town which looks
out on the southern end of the Gulf of Georgia from the American side of the boundary. He extended
his journey to Seattle. Altogether, he was gone three days.

When he came back he made a series of calls,--at the Vancouver offices of three different canneries
and one of the biggest cold-storage concerns on the Pacific Coast. He got a courteous but unsatisfactory
reception from the cannery men. He fared a little better with the manager of the cold-storage
plant. This gentleman was tentatively agreeable in the matter of purchasing salmon, but rather
vague in the way of terms.

"Beginning with May next I can deliver any quantity up to two thousand a day, perhaps more,
for a period of about four months," MacRae stated. "What I should like to know is the percentage
over the up-coast price you would pay."

But he could not pin the man down to anything definite. He would only speak pleasantly of the
market and possible arrangements, utter vague commonplaces in business terminology. MacRae rose.

"I'm wasting your time and my own," he said. "You don't want my fish. Why not say so?"

"We always want fish," the man declared, bending a shrewdly appraising eye on MacRae. "Bring
in the salmon and we will do business."

"On your own terms when my carriers are tied to your dock with a capacity load which I must
sell or throw overboard within forty-eight hours," MacRae smiled. "No, I don't intend to go
up against any take-it-or-leave proposition like that. I don't have to."

"Well, we might allow you five per cent. That's about the usual thing on salmon. And we would
rather have salmon now than a promise of them next season."

"Oh, rats!" MacRae snorted. "I'm in the business to make money--not simply to create dividends
for your Eastern stockholders while I eke out a living and take all the risks. Come again."

The cold storage man smiled.

"Come and see me in the spring. Meantime, when you have a cargo of salmon, you might run them
in to us. We'll pay market prices. It's up to you to protect yourself in the buying."

MacRae went on about his business. He had not expected much encouragement locally, so he did
not suffer disappointment. He knew quite well what he could expect in Vancouver if Crow Harbor
canceled his contract. He would bring in boatloads of salmon, and the dealers would squeeze
him, all but the Terminal Fish Company. And if the market could be controlled, if the men behind
could dictate the Crow Harbor policy, they might also bring the Terminal into line. Even if
they did not the Terminal could only handle a minor portion of the salmon he could get while
the big run swirled around Squitty Island.

But MacRae was not downcast. He was only sober and thoughtful, which had become characteristic
of him in the last four months. He was forgetting how to laugh, to be buoyant, to see the world
through the rose-colored glasses of sanguine youth. He was becoming a living exampler of his
nickname. Even Stubby Abbott marked this when Jack came back from Bellingham.

"Come on out to the house," Stubby urged. "Your men can handle the job a day or two longer.
Forget the grind for once. It's getting you."

"No, I don't think it is," MacRae denied. "But a man can't play and produce at the same time.
I have to keep going."

He did go out to Abbott's one evening, however, and suffered a good deal of teasing from Nelly
over his manhandling of Sam Kaye. A lot of other young people happened to foregather there.
They sang and flirted and presently moved the rugs off the living-room floor and danced to
a phonograph. MacRae found himself a little out of it, by inclination. He was tired, without
knowing quite what was the matter with him. A man, even a young and sturdy man, cannot work
like a horse for months on end, eating his meals anyhow and sleeping when he can, without losing
temporarily the zest for careless fun. For another thing, he found himself looking at these
immaculate young people as any hard-driven worker must perforce look upon drones.

They were sons and daughters of the well-to-do, divorced from all uncouthness, with pretty
manners and good clothes. They seemed serene in the assurance--MacRae got this impression for
the first time in his social contact with them--that wearing good clothes, behaving well, giving
themselves whole-heartedly to having a good time, was the most important and satisfying thing
in the world. They moved in an atmosphere of considering these things their due, a birthright,
their natural and proper condition of well-being.

And MacRae found himself wondering what they gave or ever expected to give in return for this
pleasant security of mind and body. Some one had to pay for it, the silks and georgettes and
white flannels, furs and strings of pearls and gold trinkets, the good food, the motor cars,
and the fun.

He knew a little about every one he met that evening, for in Vancouver as in any other community
which has developed a social life beyond the purely primitive stages of association, people
gravitate into sets and cliques. They lived in good homes, they had servants, they week-ended
here and there. Of the dozen or more young men and women present, only himself and Stubby Abbott
made any pretense at work.

Yet somebody paid for all they had and did. Men in offices, in shops, in fishing boats and
mines and logging camps worked and sweated to pay for all this well-being in which they could
have no part. MacRae even suspected that a great many men had died across the sea that this
sort of thing should remain the inviolate privilege of just such people as these. It was not
an inspiring conclusion.

He smiled to himself. How they would stare if he should voice these stray thoughts in plain
English. They would cry out that he was a Bolshevik. Absolutely! He wondered why he should
think such things. He wasn't disgruntled. He wanted a great many things which these young people
of his own age had gotten from fairy godmothers,--in the shape of pioneer parents who had skimmed
the cream off the resources of a developing frontier and handed it on to their children, and
who themselves so frequently kept in the background, a little in awe of their gilded offspring.
MacRae meant to beat the game as it was being played. He felt that he was beating it. But nothing
would be handed him on a silver salver. Fortune would not be bestowed upon him in any easy,
soft-handed fashion. He would have to render an equivalent for what he got. He stimulated the
warriors in battle by chanting the glorious deeds of their ancestors; exhorted them to emulate
those distinguished examples, and, if possible, shed a still greater
lustre on the warlike reputation of the clan.

These addresses were delivered with great vehemence of manner, and never failed to raise the feelings
of the listeners to the highest pitch of enthusiasm. When the voice of the bard was lost in the
din of battle then the piper raised the inspiring sound of the pibroch. When the conflict
was over the bard and the piper were again called into service--the former to honor the memory
of those who had fallen, to celebrate the actions of the survivors,
and excite them to further deeds of valor.

The piper played the mournful Coronach for the slain, and by his notes reminded the survivors
how honorable was the conduct of the dead.

The bards were the senachies or historians of the clans, and were recognized as a very important
factor in society. They represented the literature of their times. In the absence of books
they constituted the library and learning of the tribe. They were the living chronicles of
past events, and the depositories of popular poetry. Tales and old poems were known to special
reciters. When collected around their evening fires, a favorite pastime was a recital of traditional
tales and poetry.

The most acceptable guest was the one who could rehearse the longest
poem or most interesting tale.
On his delivery, when the salmon in her hold had been picarooned to the cannery floor, MacRae
went up to the office. Stubby had sent for him. He looked uncomfortable when Jack came in.

"What's on your mind now?" MacRae asked genially.

"Something damned unpleasant," Stubby growled.

"Shoot," MacRae said. He sat down and lit a cigarette.

"I didn't think they could do it," Abbott said slowly. "But it seems they can. I guess you'll
have to lay off the Gower territory after all, Jack."

"You mean you will," MacRae replied. "I've been rather expecting that. Can Gower hurt you?"

"Not personally. But the banks--export control--there are so many angles to the cannery situation.
There's nothing openly threatened. But it has been made perfectly clear to me that I'll be
hampered and harassed till I won't know whether I'm afoot or on horseback, if I go on paying
a few cents more for salmon in order to keep my plant working efficiently. Damn it, I hate
it. But I'm in no position to clash with the rest of the cannery crowd and the banks too. I
hate to let you down. You've pulled me out of a hole. I don't know a man who would have worked
at your pitch and carried things off the way you have. If I had this pack marketed, I could
snap my fingers at them. But I haven't. There's the rub. I hate to ditch you in order to insure
myself--get in line at somebody else's dictation."

"Don't worry about me," MacRae said gently. "I have no cannery and no pack to market through
the regular channels. Nor has the bank advanced me any funds. You are not responsible for what
I do. And neither Gower nor the Packers' Association nor the banks can stop me from buying
salmon so long as I have the money to pay the fishermen and carriers to haul them, can they?"

"No, but the devil of it is they can stop you selling," Stubby lamented bitterly. "I tell you
there isn't a cannery on the Gulf will pay you a cent more than they pay the fishermen. What's
the use of buying if you can't sell?"

MacRae did not attempt to answer that.

"Let's sum it up," he said. "You can't take any more bluebacks from Gower's territory. That,
I gather, is the chief object. I suppose they know as much about your business as you know
yourself. Am I to be deprived of the two boat charters into the bargain?"

"No, by the Lord," Stubby swore. "Not if you want them. My general policy may be subject to
dictation, but not the petty details of my business. There's a limit. I won't stand for that."

"Put a fair price on the Birds, and I'll buy 'em both," MacRae suggested. "You had them up
for sale, anyway. That will let you out, so far as my equipment is concerned."

"Five thousand each," Stubby said promptly.

"They're good value at that. And I can use ten thousand dollars to advantage, right now."

"I'll give you a check. I want the registry transferred to me at once," MacRae continued. "That
done, you can cease worrying over me, Stub. You've been square, and I've made money on the
deal. You would be foolish to fight unless you have a fighting chance. Oh, another thing. Will
the Terminal shut off on me, too?"

"No," Stubby declared. "The Terminal is one of the weapons I intend ultimately to use as a
club on the heads of this group of gentlemen who want to make a close corporation of the salmon
industry on the British Columbia coast. If I get by this season, I shall be in shape to show
them something. They will not bother about the Terminal, because the Terminal is small. All
the salmon they could take from you wouldn't hurt Gower. What they want is to enable Gower
to get up his usual fall pack. It has taken him this long to get things shaped so he could
call me off. He can't reach a local concern like the Terminal. No, the Terminal will continue
to buy salmon from you, Jack. But you know they haven't the facilities to handle a fourth of
the salmon you have been running lately."

"I'll see they get whatever they can use," MacRae declared. "And if it is any satisfaction
to you personally, Stub, I can assure you that I shall continue to do business as usual."

Stubby looked curious.

"You've got something up your sleeve?"

"Yes," MacRae admitted. "No stuffed club, either. It's loaded. You wait and keep your ears open."

MacRae's face twisted into a mirthless smile. His eyes glowed with the fire that always blazed
up in them when he thought too intensely of Horace Gower and the past, or of Gower's various
shifts to defeat him in what he undertook. He had anticipated this move. He was angrily determined
that Gower should not get one more salmon, or buy what he got a cent cheaper, by this latest
strategy.

"You appear to like old Horace," Stubby said thoughtfully, "about as much as our fellows used
to like Fritz when he dropped high explosives on supposedly bomb-proof shelters."

"Just about as much," MacRae said shortly. "Well, you'll transfer that registry--when? I want
to get back to Squitty as soon as possible."

"I'll go to town with you now, if you like," Stubby offered.

They acted on that. Within two hours MacRae was the owner of two motor launches under British
registry. Payment in full left him roughly with five thousand dollars working capital, enough
by only a narrow margin. At sunset Vancouver was a smoky smudge on a far horizon. At dusk he
passed in the narrow mouth of Squitty Cove. The Bluebird was swinging about to go when her
sister ship ranged alongside. Vincent Ferrara dropped his hook again. There were forty trollers
in the Cove. MacRae called to them. They came in skiffs and dinghys, and when they were all
about his stern and some perched in sea boots along the Blackbird's low bulwarks, MacRae said
what he had to say.

"Gower has come alive. My market for fish bought in Gower's territory is closed, so far as
Crow Harbor is concerned. If I can't sell salmon I can't buy them from you. How much do you
think Folly Bay will pay for your fish?"

He waited a minute. The fishermen looked at him in the yellow lantern light, at each other.
They shifted uneasily. No one answered his question.

MacRae went on.

"You can guess what will happen. You will be losers. So will I. I don't like the idea of being
frozen out of the salmon-buying business, now that I have got my hand in. I don't intend to
be. As long as I can handle a load of salmon I'll make the run. But I've got to run them farther,
and you fellows will have to wait a bit for me now and then, perhaps. The cannery men hang
together. They are making it bad for me because I'm paying a few cents more for salmon. They
have choked off Crow Harbor. Gower is hungry for cheap salmon. He'll get them, too, if you
let him head off outside buyers. Since I'm the only buyer covering these grounds, it's up to
you, more than ever, to see that I keep coming. That's all. Tell the rest of the fishermen
what I say whenever you happen to run across them."

They became articulate. They plied MacRae with questions. He answered tersely, as truthfully
as he could. They cursed Folly Bay and the canneries in general. But they were not downcast.
They did not seem apprehensive that Folly Bay would get salmon for forty cents. MacRae had
said he would still buy. For them that settled it. They would not have to sell their catch
to Folly Bay for whatever price Gower cared to set. Presently they began to drift away to their
boats, to bed, for their work began in that gray hour between dawn and sunrise when the schooling
salmon best strike the trolling spoon.

One lingered, a returned soldier named Mullen, who had got his discharge in May and gone fishing.
Mullen had seen two years in the trenches. He sat in his skiff, scowling up at MacRae, talking
about the salmon packers, about fishing.

"Aw, it's the same everywhere," he said cynically. "They all want a cinch, easy money, big
money. Looks like the more you have, the more you can grab. Folly Bay made barrels of coin
while the war was on. Why can't they give us fellers a show to make a little now? But they
don't give a damn, so long as they get theirs. And then they wonder why some of us guys that
went to France holler about the way we find things when we come home."

He pushed his skiff away into the gloom that rested upon the Cove.

The Bluebird was packed with salmon to her hatch covers. There had been a fresh run. The trollers
were averaging fifty fish to a man daily. MacRae put Vincent Ferrara aboard the Blackbird,
himself took over the loaded vessel, and within the hour was clear of Squitty's dusky headlands,
pointing a course straight down the middle of the Gulf. His man turned in to sleep. MacRae
stood watch alone, listening to the ka-choof, ka-choof of the exhaust, the murmuring swash
of calm water cleft by the Bluebird's stem. Away to starboard the Ballenas light winked and
blinked its flaming eye to seafaring men as it had done in his father's time. Miles to port
the Sand Heads lightship swung to its great hawsers off the Fraser River shoals.

MacRae smiled contentedly. There was a long run ahead. But he felt that he had beaten Gower
in this first definite brush. Moving in devious channels to a given end Gower had closed the
natural markets to MacRae.

But there was no law against the export of raw salmon to a foreign country. MacRae could afford
to smile. Over in Bellingham there were salmon packers who, like Folly Bay, were hungry for
fish to feed their great machines. But--unlike Folly Bay--they were willing to pay the price,
any price in reason, for a supply of salmon. Their own carriers later in the season would invade
Canadian waters, so many thorns in the ample sides of the British Columbia packers. "The damned
Americans!" they sometimes growled, and talked about legislation to keep American fish buyers
out. Because the American buyer and canner alike would spend a dollar to make a dollar. And
the British Columbia packers wanted a cinch, a monopoly, which in a measure they had. They
were an anachronism, MacRae felt. They regarded the salmon and the salmon waters of the British
Columbia coast as the feudal barons of old jealously regarded their special prerogatives. MacRae
could see them growling and grumbling, he could see most clearly the scowl that would spread
over the face of Mr. Horace A. Gower, when he learned that ten to twenty thousand Squitty Island
salmon were passing down the Gulf each week to an American cannery; that a smooth-faced boy
out of the Air Service was putting a crimp in the ancient order of things so far as one particular
cannery was concerned.

This notion amused MacRae, served to while away the hours of monotonous plowing over an unruffled
sea, until he drove down abreast the Fraser River's mouth and passed in among the nets and
lights of the sockeye fleet drifting, a thousand strong, on the broad bosom of the Gulf. Then
he had to stand up to his steering wheel and keep a sharp lookout, lest he foul his propellor
in a net or cut down some careless fisherman who did not show a riding light.

CHAPTER XI

Peril of the Sea

The last of August set the Red Flower of the Jungle books blooming along the British Columbia
coast. The seeds of it were scattered on hot, dry, still days by pipe and cigarette, by sparks
from donkey engines, by untended camp fires, wherever the careless white man went in the great
coastwise forests. The woods were like a tinder box. One unguarded moment, and the ancient
firs were wrapped in sheets of flame. Smoke lay on the Gulf like a pall of pungent fog, through
which vessels ran by chart and compass, blind between ports, at imminent risk of collision.

Through this, well on into September, MacRae and Vincent Ferrara gathered cargoes of salmon
and ran them down the Gulf to Bellingham, making their trips with the regularity of the tides,
despite the murk that hid landmarks by day and obscured the guiding lighthouse flashes when
dark closed in. They took their chances in the path of coastwise traffic, straining their eyes
for vessels to leap suddenly out of the thickness that shut them in, their ears for fog signals
that blared warning. There were close shaves, but they escaped disaster. They got the salmon
and they delivered them, and Folly Bay still ran a bad second wherever the Bird boats served
the trolling fleet. Even when Gower at last met MacRae's price, his collectors got few fish.
The fishermen took no chances. They were convinced that if MacRae abandoned buying for lack
of salmon Folly Bay would cut the price in two. It had been done before. So they held their
fish for the Bird boats. MacRae got them all. Even when American buyers trailed MacRae to the
source of his supply their competition hurt Gower instead of MacRae. The trollers supplied
MacRae with all the salmon he could carry. It was still fresh in their minds that he had come
into the field that season as their special Providence.

But the blueback run tapered off at Squitty. September ushered in the annual coho run on its
way to the spawning grounds. And the coho did not school along island shores, feeding upon
tiny herring. Stray squadrons of coho might pass Squitty, but they did not linger in thousands
as the blueback did. The coho swept into the Gulf from mysterious haunts in blue water far
offshore, myriads of silver fish seeking the streams where they were spawned, and to which
as mature fish they now returned to reproduce themselves. They came in great schools. They
would loaf awhile in some bay at a stream mouth, until some irresistible urge drove them into
fresh water, up rivers and creeks, over shoal and rapid, through pool and canyon, until the
stream ran out to a whimpering trickle and the backs of the salmon stuck out of the water.
Up there, in the shadow of great mountains, in the hidden places of the Coast range, those
that escaped their natural enemies would spawn and die.

While the coho and the humpback, which came about the same time, and the dog salmon, which
comes last of all--but each to function in the same manner and sequence--laid in the salt-water
bays, resting, it would seem, before the last and most terrible struggle of their brief existence,
the gill-net fishermen and the cannery purse-seine boats took toll of them. The trollers harried
them from the moment they showed in the Gulf, because the coho will strike at a glittering
spoon anywhere in salt water. But the net boats take them in hundreds at one drift, and the
purse seiners gather thousands at a time in a single sweep of the great bag-like seine.

When September days brought the cohoes in full force along with cooler nights and a great burst
of rain that drowned the forest fires and cleared away the enshrouding smoke, leaving only
the pleasant haze of autumn, the Folly Bay purse-seine boats went out to work. The trolling
fleet scattered from Squitty Island. Some steamed north to the troubled waters of Salmon River
and Blackfish Sound, some to the Redondas where spring salmon could be taken. Many put by their
trolling gear and hung their gill nets. A few gas boats and a few rowboat men held to the Island,
depending upon stray schools and the spring salmon that haunted certain reefs and points and
beds of kelp. But the main fleet scattered over two hundred miles of sea.

MacRae could have called it a season and quit with honor and much profit. Or he might have
gone north and bought salmon here and there, free-lancing. He did neither. There were enough
gill-netters operating on Gower's territory to give him fair cargoes. Every salmon he could
divert from the cans at Folly Bay meant,--well, he did not often stop to ask precisely what
that did mean to him. But he never passed Poor Man's Rock, bleak and brown at low tide, or
with seas hissing over it when the tide was at flood, without thinking of his father, of the
days and months and years old Donald MacRae had lived and worked in sight of the Rock,--a life
at the last lonely and cheerless and embittered by the sight of his ancient enemy preening
his feathers in Cradle Bay. Old Donald had lived for thirty years unable to return a blow which
had scarred his face and his heart in the same instant. But his son felt that he was making
better headway. It is unlikely that Donald MacRae ever looked at Gower's cottage nestling like
a snowflake in the green lee of Point Old, or cast his eyes over that lost estate of his, with
more unchristian feelings than did his son. In Jack MacRae's mind the Golden Rule did not apply
to Horace Gower, nor to aught in which Gower was concerned.

So he stayed on Folly Bay territory with a dual purpose: to make money for himself, and to
deprive Gower of profit where he could. He was wise enough to know that was the only way he
could hurt a man like Gower. And he wanted to hurt Gower. The intensity of that desire grew.
It was a point of honor, the old inborn clan pride that never compromised an injury or an insult
or an injustice, which neither forgave nor forgot.

For weeks MacRae in the Blackbird and Vin Ferrara in her sister ship flitted here and there.
The purse seiners hunted the schooling salmon, the cohoes and humps. The gill-netters hung
on the seiner's heels, because where the purse seine could get a haul so could they. And the
carriers and buyers sought the fishermen wherever they went, to buy and carry away their catch.

Folly Bay suffered bad luck from the beginning. Gower had four purse-seine boats in commission.
Within a week one broke a crankshaft in half a gale off Sangster Island. The wind put her ashore
under the nose of the sandstone Elephant and the seas destroyed her.

Fire gutted a second not long after, so that for weeks she was laid up for repairs. That left
him but two efficient craft. One operated on his concessions along the mainland shore. The
other worked three stream mouths on Vancouver Island, straight across from Folly Bay.

Still, Gower's cannery was getting salmon. In those three bays no other purse seiner could
shoot his gear. Folly Bay held them under exclusive license. Gill nets could be drifted there,
but the purse seiner was king.

A gill net goes out over a boat's stern. When it is strung it stands in the sea like a tennis
net across a court, a web nine hundred feet long, twenty feet deep, its upper edge held afloat
by corks, its lower sunk by lead weights spaced close together. The outer end is buoyed to
a float which carries a flag and a lantern; the inner is fast to the bitts of the launch. Thus
set, and set in the evening, since salmon can only be taken by the gills in the dark, fisherman,
launch, and net drift with the changing tides till dawn. Then he hauls. He may have ten salmon,
or a hundred, or treble that. He may have none, and the web be torn by sharks and fouled heavy
with worthless dogfish.

The purse seiner works in daylight, off a powerfully engined sixty-foot, thirty-ton craft.
He pays the seine out over a roller on a revolving platform aft. His vessel moves slowly in
a sweeping circle as the net goes out,--a circle perhaps a thousand feet in diameter. When
the circle is complete the two ends of the net meet at the seiner's stern. A power winch hauls
on ropes and the net closes. Nothing escapes. It draws together until it is a bag, a "purse"
drawn up under the vessel's counter, full of glistening fish.

The salmon is a surface fish, his average depth seldom below four fathoms. He breaks water
when he feeds, when he plays, when he runs in schools. The purse seiner watches the signs.
When the salmon rise in numbers he makes a set. To shoot the gear and purse the seine is a
matter of minutes. A thousand salmon at a haul is nothing. Three thousand is common. Five thousand
is far below the record. Purse seines have been burst by the dead weight of fish against the
pull of the winch.

The purse seine is a deadly trap for schooling salmon. And because the salmon schools in mass
formation, crowding nose to tail and side to side, in the entrance to a fresh-water stream,
the Fisheries Department having granted a monopoly of seining rights to a packer has also benevolently
decreed that no purse seine or other net shall operate within a given distance of a stream
mouth,--that the salmon, having won to fresh water, shall go free and his kind be saved from
utter extinction.

These regulations are not drawn for sentimental reasons, only to preserve the salmon industry.
The farmer saves wheat for his next year's seeding, instead of selling the last bushel to the
millers. No man willfully kills the goose that lays him golden eggs. But the salmon hunter,
eagerly pursuing the nimble dollar, sometimes grows rapacious in the chase and breaks laws
of his own devising,--if a big haul promises and no Fisheries Inspector is by to restrain him.
The cannery purse seiners are the most frequent offenders. They can make their haul quickly
in forbidden waters and get away. Folly Bay, shrewdly paying its seine crews a bonus per fish
on top of wages, had always been notorious for crowding the law.

Solomon River takes its rise in the mountainous backbone of Vancouver Island. It is a wide,
placid stream on its lower reaches, flowing through low, timbered regions, emptying into the
Gulf in a half-moon bay called the Jew's Mouth, which is a perfect shelter from the Gulf storms
and the only such shelter in thirty miles of bouldery shore line. The beach runs northwest
and southeast, bleak and open, undented. In all that stretch there is no point from behind
which a Fisheries Patrol launch could steal unexpectedly into the Jew's Mouth.

Upon a certain afternoon the Blackbird lay therein. At her stern, fast by light lines to her
after bitts, clung half a dozen fish boats, blue wisps of smoke drifting from the galley stovepipes,
the fishermen variously occupied. The Blackbird's hold was empty except for ice. She was waiting
for fish, and the Bluebird was due on the same errand the following day.

Nearer shore another cluster of gill-netters was anchored, a Jap or two, and a Siwash Indian
with his hull painted a gaudy blue. And in the middle of the Jew's Mouth, which was a scant
six hundred yards across at its widest, the Folly Bay No. 5 swung on her anchor chain. A tubby
cannery tender lay alongside. The crews were busy with picaroons forking salmon out of the
seiner into the tender's hold. The flip-flop of the fish sounded distinctly in that quiet place.
Their silver bodies flashed in the sun as they were thrown across the decks.

When the tender drew clear and passed out of the bay she rode deep with the weight of salmon
aboard. Without the Jew's Mouth, around the Blackbird and the fish boats and the No. 5 the
salmon were threshing water. Klop. A flash of silver. Bubbles. A series of concentric rings
that ran away in ripples, till they merged into other widening rings. They were everywhere.
The river was full of them. The bay was alive with them.

A boat put off from the seiner. The man rowed out of the Jew's Mouth and stopped, resting on
his oars. He remained there, in approximately the same position. A sentry.

The No. 5 heaved anchor, the chain clanking and chattering in a hawsepipe. Her exhaust spat
smoky, gaseous fumes. A bell clanged. She moved slowly ahead, toward the river's mouth, a hundred
yards to one side of it. Then the brown web of the seine began to spin out over the stern.
She crossed the mouth of the Solomon, holding as close in as her draft permitted, and kept
on straight till her seine was paid out to the end. Then she stopped, lying still in dead water
with her engine idling.

The tide was on the flood. Salmon run streams on a rising tide. And the seine stood like a
wall across the river's mouth.

Every man watching knew what the seiner was about, in defiance of the law. The salmon, nosing
into the stream, driven by that imperative urge which is the law of their being, struck the
net, turned aside, swam in a slow circle and tried again and again, seeking free passage, until
thousands of them were massed behind the barrier of the net. Then the No. 5 would close the
net, tauten the ropes which made it a purse, and haul out into deep water.

It was the equivalent of piracy on the high seas. To be taken in the act meant fines, imprisonment,
confiscation of boat and gear. But the No. 5 would not be caught. She had a guard posted. Cannery
seiners were never caught. When they were they got off with a warning and a reprimand. Only
gill-netters, the small fry of the salmon industry, ever paid the utmost penalty for raids
like that. So the fishermen said, with a cynical twist of their lips.

"Look at 'em," one said to MacRae. "They make laws and break 'em themselves. They been doin'
that every day for a week. If one of us set a piece of net in the river and took three hundred
salmon the canners would holler their heads off. There'd be a patrol boat on our heels all
the time if they thought we'd take a chance."

"Well, I'm about ready to take a chance," another man growled. "They clear the bay in daylight
and all we get is their leavings at night."

The No. 5 pursed her seine and hauled out until she was abreast of the Blackbird. She drew
close up to her massive hull a great heap of salmon, struggling, twisting, squirming within
the net. The loading began. Her men laughed and shouted as they worked. The gill-net fishermen
watched silently, scowling. It was like taking bread out of their mouths. It was like an honest
man restrained by a policeman's club from taking food when he is hungry, and seeing a thief
fill his pockets and walk off unmolested.

"Four thousand salmon that shot," Dave Mullen said, the same Mullen who had talked to MacRae
in Squitty one night. "Say, why should we stand for that? We can get salmon that way too."

He spoke directly to MacRae.

"What's sauce for the goose ought to be sauce for the gander," MacRae replied. "I'll take the
fish if you get them."

"You aren't afraid of getting in wrong yourself?" the man asked him.

MacRae shook his head. He did not lean to lawlessness. But the cannery men had framed this
law. They cried loudly and continually for its strict enforcement. And they violated it flagrantly
themselves, or winked at its violation when that meant an added number of cases to their pack.
Not alone in the Jew's Mouth; all along the British Columbia coast the purse seiners forgot
the law when the salmon swarmed in a stream mouth and they could make a killing. Only canneries
could hold a purse-seine license. If the big men would not honor their own law, why should
the lesser? So MacRae felt and said.

The men in the half-dozen boats about his stern had dealt all the season with MacRae. They
trusted him. They neither liked nor trusted Folly Bay. Folly Bay was not only breaking the
law in the Jew's Mouth, but in breaking the law they were making it hard for these men to earn
a dollar legitimately. Superior equipment, special privilege, cold-blooded violation of law
because it was safe and profitable, gave the purse seiner an unfair advantage. The men gathered
in a little knot on the deck of one boat. They put their heads together and lowered their voices.
MacRae knew they were angry, that they had reached the point of fighting fire with fire. And
he smiled to himself. He did not know what they were planning, but he could guess. It would
not be the first time the individual fishermen had kicked over the traces and beaten the purse
seiners at their own game. They did not include him in their council. He was a buyer. It was
not his function to inquire how they took their fish. If they could take salmon which otherwise
the No. 5 would take, so much the worse for Folly Bay,--and so much the better for the fishermen,
who earned their living precariously at best.

It was dusk when the purse seiner finished loading her catch and stowed the great net in a
dripping heap on the turntable aft. At daylight or before, a cannery tender would empty her,
and she would sweep the Jew's Mouth bare of salmon again.

With dusk also the fishermen were busy over their nets, still riding to the Blackbird's stern.
Then they moved off in the dark. MacRae could hear nets paying out. He saw lanterns set to
mark the outer end of each net. Silence fell on the bay. A single riding light glowed at the
No. 5's masthead. Her cabin lights blinked out. Her crew sprawled in their bunks, sound asleep.

Under cover of the night the fishermen took pattern from the seiner's example. A gill net is
nine hundred feet long, approximately twenty feet deep. They stripped the cork floats off one
and hung it to the lead-line of another. Thus with a web forty feet deep they went stealthily
up to the mouth of the Solomon. With a four-oared skiff manning each end of the nine hundred-foot
length they swept their net around the Jew's Mouth, closed it like a purse seine, and hauled
it out into the shallows of a small beach. They stood in the shallow water with sea boots on
and forked the salmon into their rowboats and laid the rowboats alongside the Blackbird to
deliver,--all in the dark without a lantern flicker, with muffled oarlocks and hushed voices.
Three times they swept the bay.

At five in the morning, before it was lightening in the east, the Blackbird rode four inches
below her load water line with a mixed cargo of coho and dog salmon, the heaviest cargo ever
stowed under her hatches,--and eight fishermen divided two thousand dollars share and share
alike for their night's work.

MacRae battened his hatch covers, started his engine, heaved up the hook, and hauled out of
the bay.

In the Gulf the obscuring clouds parted to lay a shaft of silver on smooth, windless sea. The
Blackbird wallowed down the moon-trail. MacRae stood at the steering wheel. Beside him Steve
Ferrara leaned on the low cabin.

"She's getting day," Steve said, after a long silence. He chuckled. "Some raid. If they can
keep that lick up those boys will all have new boats for next season. You'll break old Gower
if you keep on, Jack."

The thought warmed MacRae. To break Gower, to pull him down to where he must struggle for a
living like other common men, to deprive him of the power he had abused, to make him suffer
as such a man would suffer under that turn of fortune,--that would help to square accounts.
It would be only a measure of justice. To be dealt with as he had dealt with others,--MacRae
asked no more than that for himself.

But it was not likely, he reflected. One bad season would not seriously involve a wary old
bird like Horace Gower. He was too secure behind manifold bulwarks. Still in the end,--more
spectacular things had come to pass in the affairs of men on this kaleidoscopic coast. MacRae's
face was hard in the moonlight. His eyes were somber. It was an ugly feeling to nurse. For
thirty years that sort of impotent bitterness must have rankled in his father's breast--with
just cause, MacRae told himself moodily. No wonder old Donald had been a grave and silent man;
a just, kindly, generous man, too. Other men had liked him, respected him. Gower alone had
been implacable.

Well into the red and yellow dawn MacRae stood at the wheel, thinking of this, an absent look
in eyes which still kept keen watch ahead. He was glad when it came time for Steve's watch
on deck, and he could lie down and let sleep drive it out of his mind. He did not live solely
to revenge himself upon Horace Gower. He had his own way to make and his own plans--even if
they were still a bit nebulous--to fulfill. It was only now and then that the past saddened
him and made him bitter.

The week following brought great runs of salmon to the Jew's Mouth. Of these the Folly Bay
No. 5 somehow failed to get the lion's share. The gill-net men laughed in their soiled sleeves
and furtively swept the bay clear each night and all night, and the daytime haul of the seine
fell far below the average. The Blackbird and the Bluebird waddled down a placid Gulf with
all they could carry.

And although there was big money-making in this short stretch, and the secret satisfaction
of helping put another spoke in Gower's wheel, MacRae did not neglect the rest of his territory
nor the few trollers that still worked Squitty Island. He ran long hours to get their few fish.
It was their living, and MacRae would not pass them up because their catch meant no profit
compared to the time he spent and the fuel he burned making this round. He would drive straight
up the Gulf from Bellingham to Squitty, circle the Island and then across to the mouth of the
Solomon. The weather was growing cool now. Salmon would keep unspoiled a long time in a trailer's
hold. It did not matter to him whether it was day or night around Squitty. He drove his carrier
into any nook or hole where a troller might lie waiting with a few salmon.

The Blackbird came pitching and diving into a heavy southeast swell up along the western side
of Squitty at ten o'clock in the black of an early October night. There was a storm brewing,
a wicked one, reckoned by the headlong drop of the aneroid. MacRae had a hundred or so salmon
aboard for all his Squitty round, and he had yet to pick up those on the boats in the Cove.
He cocked his eye at a cloud-wrack streaking above, driving before a wind which had not yet
dropped to the level of the Gulf, and he said to himself that it would be wise to stay in the
Cove that night. A southeast gale, a beam sea, and the tiny opening of the Jew's Mouth was
a bad combination to face in a black night. As he stood up along Squitty he could hear the
swells break along the shore. Now and then a cold puff of air, the forerunner of the big wind,
struck him. I remember how I choked as I tried to answer him, and, patting his gilt-buttoned coat,
took the fat chapped little hands in mine, kissing them at last. I was so hungry for affection
that night! I would have clung to a dog that had been kind to me.

I thought of the first day Doctor Manning had brought him to me, in this same comical little
jacket, by the way, and the strangely tender tone in which he had said,--"This is your mother,
boy. He's as rough as a bear, Hetty, but he won't give you trouble or pain. Nothing shall
give you pain, if I"----Then he stopped. I never heard that man make
a promise.

If he had come out instead of Teddy on the porch that night, and had spoken once in the old
tone, calling me "Hetty," God knows how different all that came after would have been. The motherless
boy, holding himself up by my knees, was more sturdy than I that night, and self-reliant: never
could have known, in his most helpless baby-days, the need with which I, an adult woman, craved
a cheering word, and a little petting.

Jacqueline came behind me and pinned a woollen shawl around my neck, patting my shoulders in her
cozy, comfortable fashion.

"None of your dark river-fogs at Newport," she laughed. "The sea-air has the sweep of half the
world to gather cold and freshness in, and it makes even your bones alive. Your very sleep is
twice as much sleep there as anywhere else."

Jacky's rough voice was like the cuckoo's: it always prophesied pleasant
weather.

She went in again now, and sat down on her little sewing-chair. The low, rolling fogs outside,
and the sharp September wind rattling the bare branches of the orchard-trees and the bushes on the lawn,
only made the solid home-look of comfort within warmer and brighter. There was a wood-fire kindled
on the library-hearth, and its glow picked out red flushes of light
on the heavy brown curtains, and the white bust of Psyche, and a chubby
plaster angel looking down.

Jacky, rocking and sewing, her red mouth pursed up, half whistling, suited the picture, somehow,
I could not but feel, mere lump and matter though she might be. There was something fresh and
spicy about her. I never had been impressed so justly by her as on that night. Rough, perhaps,
but it was a pure roughness: everything about the girl had been clean since she was born, you
felt, from the paint of the house where she lived to the prayer her nurse had taught her. Her
skin was white and ruddy, her blue eyes clear and full of honesty, her brown curls crisp and
unoiled.

She could not reason, maybe; but she was straightforward and comfortable: every bone in her
roly-poly little figure forgot to be a bone, and went into easy cushions of dimpled flesh.
If ever Jacky died and went into a more spiritual world, she would be sure to take with her
much of the warmth and spring and vigor of this. She had drawn her chair close to Doctor Manning's,
where the flickering light touched the soft woollen folds of her dress and the bit of crimson
ribbon at her throat. He liked bright colors, like most men of his age. It was a pretty picture.

I
turned and looked down at the river again, shivering,--trying to think of the place and all we were
leaving. I did not wonder that it cost the others little to give up the house: it meant but
little to them. Doctor Manning had bought it just before we were married, being then a square
chocolate-colored farm-house, and we had worked our own whims on
it to make it into a home, thrusting out a stout-pillared big porch
at one side, and one or two snug little bay-windows from my sewing-room.

There was a sunny slope of clover down to the river, a dusky old apple and plum orchard at the
left, and Mary's kitchen-garden on the right, with a purblind old peacock strutting through the
paths, showing its green and gold.

Not much in all this: nothing to please Jacky's artist and poet sense,
if she had any.

But----I held on to the porch-railings now, drumming with my fingers,
as I thought of it.

It was all the childhood I ever had known. He brought me there the day we were married, and
until August--six months--we had been there alone. I could hear his old nag Tinder neighing
now, in the stable where we used to go every evening to feed and rub him down: for I went with
Daniel, as I called him, then, everywhere, even to consult his mason or farm-hands. He used to
stand joking with them a minute after the business was over, in an unwonted fashion for him,
and then scramble into the buggy beside me, and drive off, his fresh, bright eye turned to the
landscape as if enjoying it for the first time.

"God bless you, Hetty!" he used to say, "this is putting new blood into my veins."

Generally, in those long rides, I used to succeed in coaxing him imperceptibly back to talk of
his life in South America,--not only that I liked to hear this new
phase of wild adventuring life, but my own blood would glow and freshen
to see the fierce dare-devil look come back into the eye, and the
shut teeth of the grave, laconic old Doctor.

People did not know the man I had married,--no; and I would draw in closer to his shaggy coat,
and spur him on to his years of trading in the West, and later in this State. He had a curious
epigrammatic way of talking that I have noticed in a less degree in many Western men: coming
at the marrow and meaning of a scene or person in his narration with a sheer subtilized common-sense,
a tough appreciation of fact beyond theory, and of its deeper, juster
significance, and a dramatic aptness for expression.

Added to all this, my husband's life had been compacted, crowded with incident; it had saddened
and silenced his nature abnormally; this was the first break: a going back to what he might
have been, such as his children were now.

"I never talked to any one before, Hetty," he said thoughtfully once, as we were driving along,
after a few moments' silence. "I feel as if I had got breath, this late in the day, that I never
expected, for whatever thought was in me,--and--whatever love."

He turned away his face, crimson at this. He was as strangely reticent and tender on some points
as a woman. So seldom he put his love into words! That time I remember how the tears suddenly
blinded me, when I heard him, and my fingers grew unsteady, holding the reins. I was so happy
and proud. But I said nothing: he would not have liked it.

Of one time in his life Doctor Manning had never talked to me: of his earlier youth; when he was
married before. He was not a man of whom you could ask questions; yet I had hinted an inquiry
once or twice in his presence, but only by a change of color and a strange vague restlessness
had he shown that he understood my drift of meaning. Soon after that, his eldest son, Robert,
came to see his father's new wife, and stayed with us a day or two.

He was a short, thickly built young man, with heavy jaws and black hair and eyes,--keen eyes,
I soon felt, that were weighing and analyzing me as justly, but more
shrewdly than ever his father had done.

The night before he went away he came up to the porch-step where I sat, and said abruptly,--

"I am satisfied, and happy to go now."

"I am glad of that," I said earnestly; for the tenderness of the son to the father had touched
me.

"Yes. You cannot know the dread I had of seeing you. I knew the risk he ran in laying his happiness
in any woman's hands at his hour of life. But it was hard he never should know a home and love
like other men,"--his voice unsteady, and with an appealing look.

"He never shall need it," I said, quietly.

"You think not?"--his eyes on the ground. "At all events,"--after a pause,--"he is resting like
a child now: it will not be easy to startle him to any harsh reality, and," looking up, "I hope God
may deal with you, Mrs. Manning, as you deal with my father. Forgive me," as I began to speak,
"you do not know what this is to me.

It makes me rough, I know. I never yet have forgiven the woman that"----His mother? He caught the
look, stopped, pushed his hair back, caught his breath. "One thing let me say," after a moment's
silence. "You do not know my father. If he wakens to find his wife is not what he thinks her,
it will be too late for me to warn you then. He has been hurt sore and deeply in his life. Your
chance is but once."

I did not reply to Robert Manning, nor was I offended: there was too much solemnity in his coarseness.
The man's affection for his father was as part of his life-blood, I believed.

My husband came to me when he saw Robert go, and loosened my hands from my face. I clung to
him as I never did before.

"What is this hurt he talks of in your life, Daniel?

Will I be enough to take it out? Will I?"

He laughed, a low, constrained laugh, holding my shoulders as if I were a bit of a child.

"God knows you are enough, Hetty. I never thought He'd send me this.
Rob has been talking to you?

He"----

"He is bitter."

"He loves me,--poor Rob!"

"Tell me of those people that hurt you, as he says."

It was a prurient, morbid curiosity that had seized me.

A sort of shiver ran over his frame.

"Eh, what, Hetty?"--in a low voice. "Let that go, let that go,"--standing silent a moment, looking
down. "Why would we bring them back, and hack over the old dead faults? Had she no pain to bear?
We couldn't find that out to speak for her. But God knows it."

I might have known how my question would have ended; for, always, he covered over the ill-doing
of others with a nervous haste, with the charity of a man himself sharply sensitive to pain.

"It
is healthful to go back to past pain," I said, half dissatisfied.

"Is it so?"--doubtfully, as he turned away with me. "I don't know,
child.

Now and then He has to punish us, or cut out a cancer maybe.

But for going back to gloat over the cure or the whip-lash----No;
it will keep us busy enough to find good air and food, every minute
for itself"; and, with a ruddy, genial smile, he had stooped and kissed
my forehead.

A year had passed since that night.

I was standing on the same porch, but I was alone now. My husband sat a few feet from me in his old
easy-chair, but no gulf could have parted us so wide and deeply.

Robert Manning had said I would have but one chance. Well, I had had it, and it was gone. So I stood
there, looking quietly at him and Jacky and the boy. The child had pushed his father's wig off,
and his bare head with its thin iron-gray hair fell forward on his
breast, resting on Teddy's sleeping cheek.

I saw now how broad and sad the forehead was,--the quiet dignity on the whole face. Yet it had
been such a simple-hearted thing to do,--to buy that wig to please me! One of those little follies
the like of which would never come again.

I went in and sat down as usual, apart, throwing aside from my neck
the shawl which Jacky had pinned there, loathing anything she had
touched, so real and sharp was the thought about her become, as if
the evening's fog and cold had lent it a venomous life.

They had made a quiet cozy picture before, which had bitterly brought back our first married
days, but it was broken up now. The Doctor's three boys came lumbering in, with muddy shoes,
game-bags, and the usual fiery faces and loud jokes after their day's sport. Jacky threw down
her sewing, and went out to see the squirrels drawn, and the Doctor smoothed Teddy's hair, looking
after them with a pleased smile. One of the rarest sparkles of our daily life! It was a year
since Doctor Manning had brought his children home. They filled the house. Musing on the past
now, and trying to look at that year calmly, while I sat by the fire, my husband would fade back
in the picture into an unmeaning lay-figure. Was this my fault? Could I help it, if God had made
me with a different, clearer insight into life and its uses than these people with their sound
beef and muscle, their uncouth rejoicing in being alive? There was work enough in them: a broad-fisted
grappling with the day's task or obstacle, a drinking of its pain or success into their slow
brains, but nowhere the metre to note the soul's changes, nor the
eye to speculate on them.

"No," my husband had said to me one day, "we Western people have the mass of this country's appointed
work to do, so we are content that God should underlie the hypotheses. We waste no strength
in guesses at the reason why."

I remember how intolerably the days of that year dragged even in memory,
as I sat there trying to judge them fairly,--how other years of my
life thrust them aside, persistently, as foreign, alien to me.

These others were to me home,--the thoughts that had held me nearest the divine life: I went back
to them, my eyes wet, and my heart sick under my weak lungs. The little village of Concord,
away up yonder, where I was born,--I was glad to have been born there: thinking how man not only
had learned there to stand self-poised and found himself God, but Nature herself seemed there
to stop and reflect on her own beauty, and so root deeper in the inner centre. The slow-dropping
river, the thoughtful hills, the very dust-colored fern that covers
its fields, which might grow in Hades, so breathless and crisp it
is, came back to me with a glamour of quiet that night.

The soul had space to grow there! remembering how its doors of thought stood wider open to
welcome truth than anywhere else on earth. "The only object in life is to grow." It was my father's,--Margaret
Fuller's motto. I had been nursed on it, I might say. There had been a time when I had dreamed
of attaining Margaret's stature; and as I thought of that, some old subtile flame stirred
in me with a keen delight. New to me, almost; for, since my baby was born, my soul as well as
my body had been weak and nauseated. It had been so sharp a disappointment! I had intended my
child should be reared in New England: what I had lacked in gifts and opportunities he should
possess: there was not a step of his progress which I had not mapped out. But the child was
a girl, a weazen-faced little mortal, crying night and day like any other animal. It was an animal,
wearing out in me the strength needed by-and-by for its mental training. I sent it to a nurse in
the country.

Her father had met the woman carrying it out to the wagon, and took it in his arms. "Eh? eh?
is it so, little lass?" I heard him say. For days after that he looked paler, and his face had a quiet,
settled look, as if he had tested the world and was done with it. The days of Tinder and the
paddock and the drives were long gone then. I do not remember that after this he ever called
me Hetty. But he was cheerful as ever with the boys, and, the week after, Jacky came.

Why did I think of all this now? Some latent, unconscious jar of thought brought suddenly before
me a scene of many years before, a damp spring morning in Paris, when I had gone to Rosa Bonheur's
studio, just out of the city, to see her "Horse-Fair": the moist smell of jonquils; the drifting
light clouds above the Seine, like patches of wool; but most, the
peculiar life that seemed to impregnate the place itself, holding
her, as it were, to her own precise niche and work in the world,--the
sharply managed lights, the skins, trappings, her disguises on the
walls, the stables outside, and the finished work before us, instinct
with vigor and an observation as patient as keen.

I remembered how some one had quoted her as saying, "Any woman can be a wife or mother, but
this is my work alone."

I, too, had my gift: but one. But again the quick shiver of ecstasy ran through me;--it was my power,
my wand with which to touch the world, my "Vollmachtsbrief zum Glücke": was I to give it unused
back to God? I could sing: not that only; I could compose music,--the highest soul-utterance.
I remember clutching my hands up to my throat, as if holding safe the power that should release
me, suffer me to grow again, and looking across the oil-lamp on the table at my husband. I had
been called, then,--set apart to a mission; it was a true atom of the creative power that
had fired my brain; my birth had placed me on a fitting plane of self-development, and I had
thrust it all aside--for what?

A mess of weakest pottage,--a little love, silly rides behind Tinker, petting and paltering
such as other women's souls grew imbecile without.

It was the consciousness of this that had grown slowly on me in the year just gone; I had put
my husband from me day by day because of it; it had reached its intolerable climax to-night. Well,
it was fact: no fancy. My nature was differently built from others: I could look now at my
husband, and see the naked truth about us both. Two middle-aged people, with inharmonious
intellects: tastes and habits jarring at every step, clenched together only by faith in a vague
whim or fever of the blood called love. Better apart: we were too old for fevers. If I remained
with Doctor Manning, my rôle was outlined plain to the end: years of cooking, stitching, scraping
together of cents: it was the fate of thousands of married women without means, to grovel every year
nearer the animal life, to grow niggardly and common. Better apart.

As I thought that, he laid Teddy down, and came towards me,--the usual uncertain, anxious half-smile
on his face with which he regarded me.

"I am sure they will all like my old home, now, lads and all. I'm glad of that. Sure of all but
you, Hester. But you say nothing."

"The loss is great."

I shut my lips firmly, and leaned back, for he had put his hard hand gently on my shoulder. It made
me turn faint, with some weakness that must have come down to me from my infant days, so meaningless
was it. I did not hear his answer; for with the same passionate feebleness
I caught the sleeve of his dressing-gown in my fingers, and began
smoothing it. It was the first thing I had ever made for him. I remembered
how proud I was the evening he put it on. He was looking down steadily
at me with his grave, reasonable eyes, and speaking when I looked
up.

"I have been knocked up and down so perpetually in my own life:
that may be the reason the change did not trouble me as it ought.
It makes one feel as if outside matters were but just the tithes of
mint and cumin,--a hurly-burly like that which I've lived in. I am
sorry. I thought you would grieve least of all, Hester. You are stronger-brained
than we Mannings, eh? I was sure the life meant so much more to you
than food or raiment."

"What do you mean by the life? Have I found
it here, Daniel?"

"No, Hester?"

"I want work fit for me," I said,
almost fiercely. "God made me for a good, high purpose."

"I know,"
cheerfully. "We'll find it, dear: no man's work is kept back from
him. We'll find it together."

But under the cheerfulness there was
a sad quiet, as of one who has lost something forever, and tries to
hide the loss from himself. There was a moment's silence, then I got
up, and pushed him down into my chair. I took the gray head in my
arms, leaned it on my shoulder, held the thin bits of hair in my hand.

"Why,
why, child!"

"Call me Hetty, Daniel. I'd like to think that name
belonged to me yet."
His fingers were warm in hers. He smiled sardonically at a vagrant wish that they might remain
there always.

Whom the gods would destroy they first make mad. MacRae wondered if the gods thus planned his
destruction?

A tremulous sigh warned him. He shut his eyes, feigned sleep. He felt rather than saw Betty
sit up with a start, release his hand. Then very gently she moved that arm back under the blanket,
reached across him and patted the covers close about his body, stood looking down at him.

And MacRae stirred, opened his eyes.

"What time is it?" he asked.

She looked at a wrist watch. "Four o'clock." She shivered.

"You've been here all this time without a fire. You're chilled through. Why didn't you go home?
You should go now."

"I have been sitting here dozing," she said. "I wasn't aware of the cold until now. But there
is wood and kindling in the kitchen, and I am going to make a fire. Aren't you hungry?"

"Starving," he said. "But there is nothing to eat in the house. It has been empty for months."

"There is tea," she said. "I saw some on a shelf. I'll make a cup of that. It will be something
warm, refreshing."

MacRae listened to her at the kitchen stove. There was the clink of iron lids, the smell of
wood smoke, the pleasant crackle of the fire. Presently she came in with two steaming cups.

"I have a faint recollection of talking wild and large a while ago," MacRae remarked. Indeed,
it seemed hazy to him now. "Did I say anything nasty?"

"Yes," she replied frankly; "perhaps the sting of what you said lay in its being partly true.
A half truth is sometimes a deadly weapon. I wonder if you do really hate us as much, as your
manner implied--and why?"

"Us. Who?" MacRae asked.

"My father and me," she put it bluntly.

"What makes you think I do?" MacRae asked. "Because I have set up a fierce competition in a
business where your father has had a monopoly so long that he thinks this part of the Gulf
belongs to him? Because I resent your running down one of my boats? Because I go about my affairs
in my own way, regardless of Gower interests?"

"What do these things amount to?" Betty answered impatiently. "It's in your manner, your attitude.
Sometimes it even shows in your eyes. It was there the morning I came across you sitting on
Point Old, the day after the armistice was signed. I've danced with you and seen you look at
me as if--as if," she laughed self-consciously, "you would like to wring my neck. I have never
done anything to create a dislike of that sort. I have never been with you without being conscious
that you were repressing something, out of--well, courtesy, I suppose. There is a peculiar
tension about you whenever my father is mentioned. I'm not a fool," she finished, "even if
I happen to be one of what you might call the idle rich. What is the cause of this bad blood?"

"What does it matter?" MacRae parried.

"There is something, then?" she persisted.

MacRae turned his head away. He couldn't tell her. It was not wholly his story to tell. How
could he expect her to see it, to react to it as he did? A matter involving her father and
mother, and his father. It was not a pretty tale. He might be influenced powerfully in a certain
direction by the account of it passed on by old Donald MacRae; he might be stirred by the backwash
of those old passions, but he could not lay bare all that to any one--least of all to Betty
Gower. And still MacRae, for the moment, was torn between two desires. He retained the same
implacable resentment toward Gower, and he found himself wishing to set Gower's daughter apart
and outside the consequences of that ancient feud. And that, he knew, was trying to reconcile
the irreconcilable. It couldn't be done.

"Was the Arrow holed in the crash?"

Betty stood staring at him. She blinked. Her fingers began again that nervous plucking at the
blanket. But her face settled presently into its normal composure and she answered evenly.

"Rather badly up forward. She was settling fast when they beached her in the Bay."

"And then," she continued after a pause, "Doctor Wallis and I got ashore as quickly as we could.
We got a lantern and came along the cliffs. And two of the men took our big lifeboat and rowed
along near the shore. They found the Blackbird pounding on the rocks, and we found Steve Ferrara
where you left him. And we followed you here by the blood you spattered along the way."

A line from the Rhyme of the Three Sealers came into MacRae's mind as befitting. But he was
thinking of his father and not so much of himself as he quoted:

                "'Sorrow is me, in a lonely sea,
                And a sinful fight I fall.'"

"I'm afraid I don't quite grasp that," Betty said. "Although I know Kipling too, and could
supply the rest of those verses. I'm afraid I don't understand."

"It isn't likely that you ever will," MacRae answered slowly. "It is not necessary that you
should."

Their voices ceased. In the stillness the whistle of the wind and the deep drone of the seas
shattering themselves on the granite lifted a dreary monotone. And presently a quick step sounded
on the porch. Doctor Wallis came hurriedly in.

"Upon my soul," he said apologetically. "I ought to be shot, Miss Grower. I got everybody calmed
down over at the cottage and chased them all to bed. Then I sat down in a soft chair before
that cheerful fire in your living room. And I didn't wake up for hours. You must be worn out."

"That's quite all right," Betty assured him. "Don't be conscience-stricken. Did mamma have
hysterics?"

Wallis grinned cheerfully.

"Well, not quite," he drawled. "At any rate, all's quiet along the Potomac now. How's the patient
getting on?"

"I'm O.K.," MacRae spoke for himself, "and much obliged to you both for tinkering me up. Miss
Gower ought to go home."

"I think so myself," Wallis said. "I'll take her across the point. Then I'll come back and
have another look over you."

"It isn't necessary," MacRae declared. "Barring a certain amount of soreness I feel fit enough.
I suppose I could get up and walk now if I had to. Go home and go to bed, both of you."

"Good night, or perhaps it would be better to say good morning." Betty gave him her hand. "Pleasant
dreams."

It seemed to MacRae that there was a touch of reproach, a hint of the sardonic in her tone
and words.

Then he was alone in the quiet house, with his thoughts for company, and the distant noises
of the storm muttering in the outer darkness.

They were not particularly pleasant processes of thought. The sins of the fathers shall be
visited even unto the third and fourth generation. Why, in the name of God, should they be,
he asked himself?

Betty Gower liked him. She had been trying to tell him so. MacRae felt that. He did not question
too closely the quality of the feeling for her which had leaped up so unexpectedly. He was
afraid to dig too deep. He had got a glimpse of depths and eddies that night which if they
did not wholly frighten him, at least served to confuse him. They were like flint and steel,
himself and Betty Gower. They could not come together without striking sparks. And a man may
long to warm himself by fire, MacRae reflected gloomily, but he shrinks from being burned.

CHAPTER XIII

An Interlude

At daybreak Peter Ferrara came to the house.

"How are you?" he asked.

"Sore. Wobbly." MacRae had tried his legs and found them wanting.

"It was a bad night all round, eh, lad?" Peter rumbled in his rough old voice. "Some of the
boys got a line on the Blackbird and hauled what was left of her around into the Cove. But
she's a ruin. The engine went to pieces while she was poundin' on the rocks. Steve lays in
the house. He looks peaceful--as if he was glad to be through."

"I couldn't save him. It was done like that." MacRae snapped his fingers.

"I know," Old Peter said. "You're not to blame. Perhaps nobody is. Them things happen. Manuel'll
feel it. He's lost both sons now. But Steve's better off. He'd 'a' died of consumption or something,
slow an' painful. His lungs was gone. I seen him set for weeks on the porch wheezin' after
he come home. He didn't get no pleasure livin'. He said once a bullet would 'a' been mercy.
No, don't worry about Steve. We all come to it soon or late, John. It's never a pity for the
old or the crippled to die."

"You old Spartan," MacRae muttered.

"What's that?" Peter asked. But MacRae did not explain. He asked about Dolly instead.

"She was up to Potter's Landing. I sent for her and she's back," Peter told him. "She'll be
up to see you presently. There's no grub in the house, is there? Can you eat? Well, take it
easy, lad."

An hour or so later Dolly Ferrara brought him a steaming breakfast on a tray. She sat talking
to him while he ate.

"Gower will have to pay for the Blackbird, won't he?" she asked. "The fishermen say so."

"If he doesn't in one way he will another," MacRae answered indifferently. "But that doesn't
help Steve. The boat doesn't matter. One can build boats. You can't bring a man back to life
when he's dead."

"If Steve could talk he'd say he didn't care," Dolly declared sadly. "You know he wasn't getting
much out of living, Jack. There was nothing for him to look forward to but a few years of discomfort
and uncertainty. A man who has been strong and active rebels against dying by inches. Steve
told me--not so very long ago--that if something would finish him off quickly he would be glad."

If that had been Steve's wish, MacRae thought, then fate had hearkened to him. He knew it was
true. He had lived at elbows with Steve all summer. Steve never complained. He was made of
different stuff. It was only a gloomy consolation, after all, to think of Steve as being better
off. MacRae knew how men cling to life, even when it has lost all its savor. There is that
imperative will-to-live which refuses to be denied.

Dolly went away. After a time Wallis came over from the cottage at Cradle Bay. He was a young
and genial medico from Seattle, who had just returned from service with the American forces
overseas, and was holidaying briefly before he took up private practice again. He had very
little more than a casual interest in MacRae, however, and he did not stay long once he had
satisfied himself that his patient had little further need of professional services. And MacRae,
who was weaker than he expected to find himself, rested in his bed until late afternoon brought
bars of sunlight streaming through openings in the cloud bank which still ran swift before
the wind.

Then he rose, dressed, made his way laboriously and painfully down to the Cove's edge and took
a brief look at the hull of the Blackbird sunk to her deck line, her rail and cabins broken
and twisted. After that he hailed a fisherman, engaged him to go across to Solomon River and
apprise the Bluebird. That accomplished he went back to the house. Thereafter he spent days
lying on his bed, resting in a big chair before the fireplace while his wounds healed and his
strength came back to him, thinking, planning, chafing at inaction.

There was a perfunctory inquest, after which Steve's body went away to Hidalgo Island to rest
beside the bodies of other Ferraras in a plot of ground their grandfather had taken for his
own when British Columbia was a Crown colony.

MacRae carried insurance on both his carriers. There was no need for him to move against Gower
in the matter. The insurance people would attend efficiently to that. The adjusters came, took
over the wreck, made inquiries. MacRae made his formal claim, and it was duly paid.

But long before the payment was made he was at work, he and Vin Ferrara together, on the Bluebird,
plowing the Gulf in stormy autumn weather. The season was far gone, the salmon run slackening
to its close. It was too late to equip another carrier. The cohoes were gone. The dog salmon,
great-toothed, slimy fish which are canned for European export--for cheap trade, which nevertheless
returned much profit to the canneries--were still running.

MacRae had taken ninety per cent. of the Folly Bay bluebacks. He had made tremendous inroads
on Folly Bay's take of coho and humpback. He did not care greatly if Gower filled his cans
with "dogs." But the Bellingham packers cried for salmon of whatsoever quality, and so MacRae
drove the Bluebird hard in a trade which gave him no great profit, chiefly to preserve his
connection with the American canners, to harass Folly Bay, and to let the fishermen know that
he was still a factor and could serve them well.

He was sick of the smell of salmon, weary of the eternal heaving of the sea under his feet,
of long cold tricks at the wheel, of days in somber, driving rain and nights without sleep.
But he kept on until the salmon ceased to run, until the purse seiners tied up for the season,
and the fishermen put by their gear.

MacRae had done well,--far better than he expected. His knife had cut both ways. He had eighteen
thousand dollars in cash and the Bluebird. The Folly Bay pack was twelve thousand cases short.
How much that shortage meant in lost profit MacRae could only guess, but it was a pretty sum.
Another season like that,--he smiled grimly. The next season would be better,--for him. The
trollers were all for him. They went out of their way to tell him that. He had organized good
will behind him. The men who followed the salmon schools believed he did not want the earth,
only a decent share. He did not sit behind a mahogany desk in town and set the price of fish.
These men had labored a long time under the weighty heel of a controlled industry, and they
were thankful for a new dispensation. It gave MacRae a pleasant feeling to know this. It gave
him also something of a contempt for Gower, who had sat tight with a virtual monopoly for ten
years and along with his profits had earned the distrust and dislike of a body of men who might
as easily have been loyal laborers in his watery vineyards,--if he had not used his power to
hold them to the most meager return they could wring from the sea.

He came home to the house at Squitty Cove with some odds and ends from town shops to make it
more comfortable, flooring to replace the old, worn boards, a rug or two, pictures that caught
his fancy, new cushions for the big chairs old Donald MacRae had fashioned by hand years before,
a banjo to pick at, and a great box of books which he had promised to read some day when he
had time. And he knew he would have time through long winter evenings when the land was drenched
with rain, when the storm winds howled in the swaying firs and the sea beat clamorously along
the cliffs. He would sit with his feet to a glowing fire and read books.

He did, for a time. When late November laid down a constant barrage of rain and the cloud battalions
marched and countermarched along the coast, MacRae had settled down. He had no present care
upon his shoulders. Although he presumed himself to be resting, he was far from idle. He found
many ways of occupying himself about the old place. It was his pleasure that the old log house
should be neat within and without, the yard clean, the garden restored to order. It had suffered
a season's neglect. He remedied that with a little labor and a little money, wishing, as the
place took on a sprightlier air, that old Donald could be there to see. MacRae was frank in
his affection for the spot. No other place that he had ever seen meant quite the same to him.
He was always glad to come back to it; it seemed imperative that he should always come back
there. It was home, his refuge, his castle. Indeed he had seen castles across the sea from
whose towers less goodly sights spread than he could command from his own front door, now that
winter had stripped the maple and alder of their leafy screen. There was the sheltered Cove
at his feet, the far sweep of the Gulf--colored according to its mood and the weather--great
mountain ranges lifting sheer from blue water, their lower slopes green with forest and their
crests white with snow. Immensities of land and trees. All his environment pitched upon a colossal
scale. It was good to look at, to live among, and MacRae knew that it was good.

He sat on a log at the brink of the Cove one morning, in a burst of sunshine as grateful as
it was rare. He looked out at the mainland shore, shading away from deep olive to a faint and
misty blue. He cast his gaze along Vancouver Island, a three-hundred-mile barrier against the
long roll of the Pacific. He thought of England, with its scant area and its forty million
souls. He smiled. An empire opened within range of his vision. He had had to go to Europe to
appreciate his own country. Old, old peoples over there. Outworn, bewildered aristocracies
and vast populations troubled with the specter of want, swarming like rabbits, pressing always
close upon the means of subsistence. No room; no chance. Born in social stratas solidified
by centuries. No wonder Europe was full of race and class hatred, of war and pestilence. Snap
judgment,--but Jack MacRae had seen the peasants of France and Belgium, the driven workmen
of industrial France and England. He had seen also something of the forces which controlled
them, caught glimpses of the iron hand in the velvet glove, a hand that was not so sure and
steady as in days gone by.

Here a man still had a chance. He could not pick golden apples off the fir trees. He must use
his brains as well as his hands. A reasonable measure of security was within a man's grasp
if he tried for it. To pile up a fortune might be a heavy task. But getting a living was no
insoluble problem. A man could accomplish either without selling his soul or cutting throats
or making serfs of his fellow men. There was room to move and breathe,--and some to spare.

Perhaps Jack MacRae, in view of his feelings, his cherished projects, was a trifle inconsistent
in the judgments he passed, sitting there on his log in the winter sunshine. But the wholly
consistent must die young. Their works do not appear in this day and hour. The normal man adjusts
himself to, and his actions are guided by, moods and circumstances which are seldom orderly
and logical in their sequence.

MacRae cherished as profound an animosity toward Horace Gower as any Russian ever felt for
bureaucratic tyranny. He could smart under injustice and plan reprisal. He could appreciate
his environment, his opportunities, be glad that his lines were cast amid rugged beauty. But
he did not on that account feel tolerant toward those whom he conceived to be his enemies.
He was not, however, thinking concretely of his personal affairs or tendencies that bright
morning. He was merely sitting more or less quiescent on his log, nursing vagrant impressions,
letting the sun bathe him.

He was not even conscious of trespassing on Horace Gower's land. When he thought of it, of
course he realized that this was legally so. But the legal fact had no reality for MacRae.
Between the Cove and Point Old, for a mile back into the dusky woods, he felt free to come
and go as he chose. He had always believed and understood and felt that area to be his, and
he still held to that old impression. There was not a foot of that six hundred acres that he
had not explored alone, with his father, with Dolly Ferrara, season after season. He had gone
barefoot over the rocks, dug clams on the beaches, fished trout in the little streams, hunted
deer and grouse in the thickets, as far back as he could remember. He had loved the cliffs
and the sea, the woods around the Cove with an affection bred in use and occupancy, confirmed
by the sense of inviolate possession. Old things are dear, if a man has once loved them. They
remain so. The aura of beloved familiarity clings to them long after they have passed into
alien hands. When MacRae thought of this and turned his eyes upon this noble sweep of land
and forest which his father had claimed for his own from the wilderness, it was as if some
one had deprived him of an eye or an arm by trickery and unfair advantage.

He was not glooming over such things this rare morning which had come like a benediction after
ten days of rain and wind. He was sitting on his log bareheaded, filled with a passive content
rare in his recent experience.

From this perch, in the idle wandering of his gaze, his eyes at length rested upon Peter Ferrara's
house. He saw a man and a woman come out of the front door and stand for a minute or two on
the steps. He could not recognize the man at the distance, but he could guess. The man presently
walked away around the end of the Cove, MacRae perceived that his guess was correct, for Norman
Gower came out on the brow of the cliff that bordered the south side of the Cove. He appeared
a short distance away, walking slowly, his eyes on the Cove and Peter Ferrara's house. He did
not see MacRae till he was quite close and glanced that way.

"Hello, MacRae," he said.

"How d' do," Jack answered. There was no cordiality in his tone. If he had any desire at that
moment it was not for speech with Norman Gower, but rather a desire that Gower should walk on.

But the other man sat down on MacRae's log.

"Not much like over the pond, this," he remarked.

"Not much," MacRae agreed indifferently.

Young Gower took a cigarette case out of his pocket, extended it to MacRae, who declined with
a brief shake of his head. Norman lighted a cigarette. He was short and stoutly built, a compact,
muscular man somewhat older than MacRae. He had very fair hair and blue eyes, and the rose-leaf
skin of his mother had in him taken on a masculine floridity. But he had the Gower mouth and
determined chin. So had Betty, MacRae was reminded, looking at her brother.

"You sank your harpoon pretty deep into Folly Bay this season," Norman said abruptly. "Did
you do pretty well yourself?"

"Pretty well," MacRae drawled. "Did it worry you?"

"Me? Hardly," young Gower smiled. "It did not cost me anything to operate Folly Bay at a loss
while I was in charge. I had neither money nor reputation to lose. You may have worried the
governor. I dare say you did. He never did take kindly to anything or any one that interfered
with his projects. But I haven't heard him commit himself. He doesn't confide in me, anyway,
nor esteem me very highly in any capacity. I wonder if your father ever felt that way about you?"

"No," MacRae said impulsively. "By God, no!"

"Lucky. And you came home with a record behind you. Nothing to handicap you. You jumped into
the fray to do something for yourself and made good right off the bat. There is such a thing
as luck," Norman said soberly. "A man can do his best--and fail. I have, so far. I was expected
to come home a credit to the family, a hero, dangling medals on my manly chest. Instead, I've
lost caste with my own crowd. Girls and fellows I used to know sneer at me behind my back.
They put their tongues in their cheek and say I was a crafty slacker. I suppose you've heard
the talk?"

"No," MacRae answered shortly; he had forgotten Nelly Abbott's questioning almost the first
time he met her. "I don't run much with your crowd, anyway."

"Well, they can think what they damn please," young Gower grumbled. "It's quite true that I
was never any closer to the front than the Dover cliffs. Perhaps at home here in the beginning
they handed me a captain's commission on the family pull. But I tried to deliver the goods.
These people think I dodged the trenches. They don't know my eyesight spoiled my chances of
going into action. I couldn't get to France. So I did my bit where headquarters told me I could
do it or go home. And all I have got out of it is the veiled contempt of nearly everybody I
know, my father included, for not killing Germans with my own hands."

MacRae kept still. It was a curious statement. Young Gower twisted and ground his boot heel
into the soft earth.

"Being a rich man's son has proved a considerable handicap in my case," he continued at last.
"I was petted and coddled all my life. Then the war came along. Everybody expected a lot of
me. And I am as good as excommunicated for not coming up to expectations. Beautiful irony.
If my eyes had been normal, I should be another of Vancouver's heroes,--alive or dead. The
spirit doesn't seem to count. The only thing that matters, evidently, is that I stayed on the
safe side of the Channel. They take it for granted that I did so because I valued my own skin
above everything. Idiots."

"You can easily explain," MacRae suggested.

"I won't. I'd see them all in Hades first," Norman growled. "I'll admit it stings me to have
people think so and rub it in, in their polite way. But I'm getting more or less indifferent.
There are plenty of real people in England who know I did the only work I could do and did
it well. Do you imagine I fancied sitting on the side lines when all the fellows I knew were
playing a tough game? But I can't go about telling that to people at home. I'll be damned if
I will. A man has to learn to stand the gaff sometime, and the last year or so seems to be
my period of schooling."

"Why tell all this to me?" MacRae asked quietly.

Norman rose from the log. He chucked the butt of his cigarette away. He looked directly, rather
searchingly, at MacRae.

"Really, I don't know," he said in a flat, expressionless. Then he walked on.

MacRae watched him pass out of sight among the thickets. Young Gower had succeeded in dispelling
the passive contentment of basking in the sun. He had managed to start buzzing trains of not
too agreeable reflection. MacRae got to his feet before long and tramped back around the Cove's
head. He had known, of course, that the Gowers still made more or less use of their summer
cottage. But he had not come in personal contact with any of them since the night Betty had
given him that new, disturbing angle from which to view her. He had avoided her purposely.
Now he was afflicted with a sudden restlessness, a desire for other voices and faces besides
his own, and so, as he was in the habit of doing when such a mood seized him, he went on to
Peter Ferrara's house.

He walked in through a wide-open door, unannounced by aught save his footsteps, as he was accustomed
to do, and he found Dolly Ferrara and Betty Gower laughing and chatting familiarly in the kitchen
over teacups and little cakes.

"Oh, I beg pardon," said he. "I didn't know you were entertaining."

"I don't entertain, and you know it," Dolly laughed. "Come down from that lofty altitude and
I'll give you a cup of tea."

"Mr. MacRae, being an aviator of some note," Betty put in, "probably finds himself at home
in the high altitudes."

"Do I seem to be up in the air?" MacRae inquired dryly. "I shall try to come down behind my
own lines, and not in enemy territory."

"You might have to make a forced landing," Dolly remarked.

Her great dusky eyes rested upon him with a singular quality of speculation. MacRae wondered
if those two had been talking about him, and why.

There was an astonishing contrast between these two girls, MacRae thought, his mind and his
eyes busy upon them while his tongue uttered idle words and his hands coped with a teacup and
cakes. They were the product of totally dissimilar environments. They were the physical antithesis
of each other,--in all but the peculiar feline grace of young females who are healthily, exuberantly
alive. Yet MacRae had a feeling that they were sisters under their skins, wonderfully alike
in their primary emotions. Why, then, he wondered, should one be capable of moving him to violent
emotional reactions (he had got that far in his self-admissions concerning Betty Gower), and
the other move him only to a friendly concern and latterly a certain pity?

Certainly either one would quite justify a man in seeking her for his mate, if he found his
natural instincts urging him along ways which MacRae was beginning to perceive no normal man
could escape traveling. And if he had to tread that road, why should it not have been his desire
to tread it with Dolly Ferrara? That would have been so much simpler. With unconscious egotism
he put aside Norman Gower as a factor. If he had to develop an unaccountable craving for some
particular woman, why couldn't it have centered upon a woman he knew as well as he knew Dolly,
whose likes and dislikes, little tricks of speech and manner, habits of thought, all the inconsiderable
traits that go to make up what we call personality, were pleasantly familiar?

Strange thoughts over a teacup, MacRae decided. It seemed even more strange that he should
be considering such intimately personal things in the very act of carrying on an impersonal
triangular conversation; as if there were two of him present, one being occupied in the approved
teacup manner while the other sat by speculating with a touch of moroseness upon distressingly
important potentialities. This duality persisted in functioning even when Betty looked at her
watch and said, "I must go."

He walked with her around to the head of the Cove. He had not wanted to do that,--and still
he did. He found himself filled with an intense and resentful curiosity about this calm, self-possessed
young woman. He wondered if she really had any power to hurt him, if there resided in her any
more potent charm than other women possessed, or if it were a mere sentimental befogging of
his mind due to the physical propinquity of her at a time when he was weak and bruised and
helpless. He could feel the soft warmth of her hands yet, and without even closing his eyes
he could see her reddish-brown hair against the white of his bed covers and the tired droop
of her body as she slept that night.

Curiously enough, before they were well clear of the Ferrara house they had crossed swords.
Courteously, to be sure. MacRae could not afterward recall clearly how it began,--something
about the war and the after-effect of the war. British Columbia nowise escaped the muddle into
which the close of the war and the wrangle of the peacemakers had plunged both industry and
politics. There had been a recent labor disturbance in Vancouver in which demobilized soldiers
had played a part.

"You can't blame these men much. They're bewildered at some of the things they get up against,
and exasperated by others. A lot of them have found the going harder at home than it was in
France. A lot of promises and preachments don't fit in with performance since the guns have
stopped talking. I suppose that doesn't seem reasonable to people like you," MacRae found himself
saying. "You don't have to gouge and claw a living out of the world. Or at least, if there
is any gouging and clawing to be done, you are not personally involved in it. You get it done
by proxy."

Betty flushed slightly.

"Do you always go about with a chip on your shoulder?" she asked. "I should think you did enough
fighting in France."

"I learned to fight there," he said. "I was a happy-go-lucky kid before that. Rich and poor
looked alike to me. I didn't covet anything that anybody had, and I didn't dream that any one
could possibly wish to take away from me anything that I happened to have. I thought the world
was a kind and pleasant place for everybody. But things look a little different to me now.
They sent us fellows to France to fight Huns. But there are a few at home, I find. Why shouldn't
I fight them whenever I see a chance?"

"But I'm not a Hun," Betty said with a smile.

"I'm not so sure about that."

The words leaped out before he was quite aware of what they might imply. They had come to a
point on the path directly in front of his house. Betty stopped. Her gray eyes flashed angrily.
Storm signals blazed in her cheeks, bright above the delicate white of her neck.

"Jack MacRae," she burst out hotly, "you are a--a--a first-class idiot!"

Then she turned her back on him and went off up the path with a quick, springy step that somehow
suggested extreme haste.

MacRae stood looking after her fully a minute. Then he climbed the steps, went into the front
room and sat himself down in a deep, cushioned chair. He glowered into the fireplace with a
look as black as the charred remains of his morning fire. He uttered one brief word after a
long period of fixed staring.

"Damn!" he said.

It seemed a very inadequate manner of expressing his feelings, but it was the best he could
do at the moment.

He sat there until the chill discomfort of the room stirred him out of his abstraction. Then
he built a fire and took up a book to read. But the book presently lay unheeded on his knees.
He passed the rest of the short forenoon sprawled in that big chair before the fireplace, struggling
with chaotic mental processes.

It made him unhappy, but he could not help it. A tremendous assortment of mental images presented
themselves for inspection, flickering up unbidden out of his brain-stuff,--old visions and
new, familiar things and vague, troublesome possibilities, all strangely jumbled together.
His mind hopped from Squitty Cove to Salisbury Plain, to the valley of the Rhone, to Paris,
London, Vancouver, turned up all sorts of recollections, cameralike flashes of things that
had happened to him, things he had seen in curious places, bits of his life in that somehow
distant period when he was a youngster chumming about with his father. And always he came back
to the Gowers,--father, son and daughter, and the delicate elderly woman with the faded rose-leaf
face whom he had seen only once. Whole passages of Donald MacRae's written life story took
form in living words. He could not disentangle himself from these Gowers.

And he hated them!

Dark came down at last. MacRae went out on the porch. The few scattered clouds had vanished
completely. A starry sky glittered above horizons edged by mountain ranges, serrated outlines
astonishingly distinct. The sea spread duskily mysterious from duskier shores. It was very
still, to MacRae suddenly very lonely, empty, depressing.

The knowledge that just across a narrow neck of land the Gowers, father, daughter and son,
went carelessly, securely about their own affairs, made him infinitely more lonely, irritated
him, stirred up a burning resentment against the lot of them. He lumped them all together,
despite a curious tendency on the part of Betty's image to separate itself from the others.
He hated them, the whole damned, profiteering, arrogant, butterfly lot. He nursed an unholy
satisfaction in having made some inroad upon their comfortable security, in having "sunk his
harpoon" into their only vulnerable spot.

But that satisfaction did not give him relief or content as he stood looking out into the clear
frost-tinged night. Squitty had all at once become a ghostly place, haunted with sadness. Old
Donald MacRae was living over again in him, he had a feeling, reliving those last few cheerless,
hopeless years which, MacRae told himself savagely, Horace Gower had deliberately made more
cheerless and hopeless.

And he was in a fair way to love that man's flesh and blood? MacRae sneered at himself in the
dark. Never to the point of staying his hand, of foregoing his purpose, of failing to strike
a blow as chance offered. Not so long as he was his father's son.

"Hang it, I'm getting morbid," MacRae muttered at last. "I've been sticking around here too
close. I'll pack a bag to-morrow and go to town for a while."

He closed the door on the crisp, empty night, and set about getting himself something to eat.

CHAPTER XIV

The Swing of the Pendulum

MacRae did himself rather well, as the English say, when he reached Vancouver. This was a holiday,
and he was disposed to make the most of it. He put up at the Granada. He made a few calls and
presently found himself automatically relaunched upon Vancouver's social waters. There were
a few maids and more than one matron who recalled pleasantly this straight up-standing youngster
with the cool gray eyes who had come briefly into their ken the winter before. There were a
few fellows he had known in squadron quarters overseas, home for good now that demobilization
was fairly complete. MacRae danced well. He had the faculty of making himself agreeable without
effort. He found it pleasant to fall into the way of these careless, well-dressed folk whose
greatest labor seemed to be in amusing themselves, to keep life from seeming "slow." Buttressed
by revenues derived from substantial sources, mines, timber, coastal fisheries, land, established
industries, these sons and daughters of the pioneers, many but one degree removed from pioneering
uncouthness, were patterning their lives upon the plan of equivalent classes in older regions.
If it takes six generations in Europe to make a gentleman, western America quite casually dispenses
with five, and the resulting product seldom suffers by comparison.

As the well-to-do in Europe flung themselves into revelry with the signing of the armistice,
so did they here. Four years of war had corked the bottle of gayety. The young men were all
overseas. Life was a little too cloudy during that period to be gay. Shadows hung over too
many homes. But that was past. They had pulled the cork and thrown it away, one would think.
Pleasure was king, to be served with light abandon.

It was a fairly vigorous place, MacRae discovered. He liked it, gave himself up to it gladly,--for
a while. It involved no mental effort. These people seldom spoke of money, or of work, or politics,
the high cost of living, international affairs. If they did it was jocularly, sketchily, as
matters of no importance. Their talk ran upon dances, clothes, motoring, sports indoors and
afield, on food,--and sometimes genially on drink, since the dry wave had not yet drained their
cellars.

MacRae floated with this tide. But he was not wholly carried away with it. He began to view
it impersonally, to wonder if it were the real thing, if this was what inspired men to plot
and scheme and struggle laboriously for money, or if it were just the froth on the surface
of realities which he could not quite grasp. He couldn't say. There was a dash and glitter
about it that charmed him. He could warm and thrill to the beauty of a Granada ballroom, music
that seduced a man's feet, beauty of silk and satin, of face and figure, of bright eyes and
gleaming jewels, a blending of all the primary colors and every shade between, flashing over
a polished floor under high, carved ceilings.

He had surrendered Nelly Abbott to a claimant and stood watching the swirl and glide of the
dancers in the Granada one night. His eyes were on the brilliance a little below the raised
area at one end of the floor, and so was his mind, inquiringly, with the curious concentration
of which his mind was capable. Presently he became aware of some one speaking to him, tugging
at his elbow.

"Oh, come out of it," a voice said derisively.

He looked around at Stubby Abbott.

"Regular trance. I spoke to you twice. In love?"

"Uh-uh. Just thinking," MacRae laughed.

"Deep thinking, I'll say. Want to go down to the billiard room and smoke?"

They descended to a subterranean chamber where, in a pit lighted by low-hung shaded globes,
men in shirt sleeves clicked the red and white balls on a score of tables. Rows of leather-upholstered
chairs gave comfort to spectators. They commandeered seats and lighted cigarettes. "Look,"
Stubby said. "There's Norman Gower."

Young Gower sat across a corner from them. He was in evening clothes. He slumped in his chair.
His hands were limp along the chair arms. He was not watching the billiard players. He was
staring straight across the room with the sightless look of one whose mind is far away.

"Another deep thinker," Stubby drawled. "Rather rough going for Norman these days."

"How?" MacRae asked.

"Funked it over across," Stubby replied. "So they say. Careful to stay on the right side of
the Channel. Paying the penalty now. Girls rather rub it in. Fellows not too--well, cordial.
Pretty rotten for Norman."

"Think he slacked deliberately?" MacRae inquired.

"That's the story. Lord, I don't know," Stubby answered. "He stuck in England four years. Everybody
else that was fit went up the line. That's all I know. By their deeds ye shall judge them--eh?"

"Perhaps. What does he say about that himself?"

"Nothing, so far as I know. Keeps strictly mum on the war subject," Stubby said.

Young Gower did not alter his position during the few minutes they sat there. He sat staring
straight ahead of him, unseeingly. MacRae suddenly felt sorry for him. If he had told the truth
he was suffering a peculiarly distressing form of injustice, of misconception. MacRae recalled
the passionate undertone in Gower's voice when he said, "I did the only thing I could do in
the way I was told to do it." Yes, he was sorry for Norman. The poor devil was not getting
a square deal.

But MacRae's pity was swiftly blotted out. He had a sudden uncomfortable vision of old Donald
MacRae rowing around Poor Man's Rock, back and forth in sun and rain, in frosty dawns and stormy
twilights, coming home to a lonely house, dying at last a lonely death, the sordid culmination
of an embittered life.

Let him sweat,--the whole Gower tribe. MacRae was the ancient Roman, for the moment, wishing
all his enemies had but a single head that he might draw his sword and strike it off. Something
in him hardened against that first generous impulse to repeat to Stubby Abbott what Norman
had told him on the cliff at Squitty. Let the beggar make his own defense. Yet that stubborn
silence, the proud refusal to make words take the place of valiant deeds expected, wrung a
gleam of reluctant admiration from MacRae. He would have done just that himself.

"Let's get back," Stubby suggested. "I've got the next dance with Betty Gower. I don't want
to miss it."

"Is she here to-night? I haven't noticed her."

"Eyesight affected?" Stubby bantered. "Sure she's here. Looking like a dream."

MacRae felt a pang of envy. There was nothing to hold Stubby back,--no old scores, no deep,
abiding resentment. MacRae had the conviction that Stubby would never take anything like that
so seriously as he, Jack MacRae, did. He was aware that Stubby had the curious dual code common
in the business world,--one set of inhibitions and principles for business and another for
personal and social uses. A man might be Stubby's opponent in the market and his friend when
they met on a common social ground. MacRae could never be quite like that. Stubby could fight
Horace Gower, for instance, tooth and toenail, for an advantage in the salmon trade, and stretch
his legs under Gower's dining table with no sense of incongruity, no matter what shifts the
competitive struggle had taken or what weapons either had used. That was business; and a man
left his business at the office. A curious thing, MacRae thought. A phenomenon in ethics which
he found hard to understand, harder still to endorse.

He stood watching Stubby, knowing that Stubby would go straight to Betty Gower. Presently he
saw her, marked the cut and color of her gown, watched them swing into the gyrating wave of
couples that took the floor when the orchestra began. Indeed, MacRae stood watching them until
he recalled with a start that he had this dance with Etta Robbin-Steele, who would, in her
own much-used phrase, be "simply furious" at anything that might be construed as neglect; only
Etta's fury would consist of showing her white, even teeth in a pert smile with a challenging
twinkle in her very black eyes.

He went to Betty as soon as he found opportunity. He did not quite know why. He did not stop
to ask himself why. It was a purely instinctive propulsion. He followed his impulse as the
needle swings to the pole; as an object released from the hand at a great height obeys the
force of gravity; as water flows downhill.

He took her programme.

"I don't see any vacancies," he said. "Shall I create one?"

He drew his pencil through Stubby Abbott's name. Stubby's signature was rather liberally inscribed
there, he thought. Betty looked at him a trifle uncertainly.

"Aren't you a trifle--sweeping?" she inquired.

"Perhaps. Stubby won't mind. Do you?" he asked.

"I seem to be defenseless." Betty shrugged her shoulders. "What shall we quarrel about this time?"

"Anything you like," he made reckless answer.

"Very well, then," she said as they got up to dance. "Suppose we begin by finding out what
there is to quarrel over. Are you aware that practically every time we meet we nearly come
to blows? What is there about me that irritates you so easily?"

"Your inaccessibility."

MacRae spoke without weighing his words. Yet that was the truth, although he knew that such
a frank truth was neither good form nor policy. He was sorry before the words were out of his
mouth. Betty could not possibly understand what he meant. He was not sure he wanted her to
understand. MacRae felt himself riding to a fall. As had happened briefly the night of the
Blackbird's wrecking, he experienced that feeling of dumb protest against the shaping of events
in which he moved helpless. This bit of flesh and blood swaying in his arms in effortless rhythm
to sensuous music was something he had to reckon with powerfully, whether he liked or not.
MacRae was beginning dimly to see that. When he was with her--

"But I'm not inaccessible."

She dropped her voice to a cooing whisper. Her eyes glowed as they met his with steadfast concern.
There was a smile and a question in them.

"What ever gave you that idea?"

"It isn't an idea; it's a fact."

The resentment against circumstances that troubled MacRae crept into his tone.

"Oh, silly!"

There was a railing note of tenderness in Betty's voice. MacRae felt his moorings slip. A heady
recklessness of consequences seized him. He drew her a little closer to him. Irresistible prompting
from some wellspring of his being urged him on to what his reason would have called sheer folly,
if that reason had not for the time suffered eclipse, which is a weakness of rational processes
when they come into conflict with a genuine emotion.

"Do you like me, Betty?"

Her eyes danced. They answered as well as her lips:

"Of course I do. Haven't I been telling you so plainly enough? I've been ashamed of myself
for being so transparent--on such slight provocation."

"How much?" he demanded.

"Oh--well--"

The ballroom was suddenly shrouded in darkness, saved only from a cavelike black by diffused
street light through the upper windows. A blown fuse. A mis-pulled switch. One of those minor
accidents common to electric lighting systems. The orchestra hesitated, went on. From a momentary
silence the dancers broke into chuckles, amused laughter, a buzz of exclamatory conversation.
But no one moved, lest they collide with other unseen couples.

Jack and Betty stood still. They could not see. But MacRae could feel the quick beat, of Betty's
heart, the rise and fall of her breast, a trembling in her fingers. There was a strange madness
stirring in him. His arm tightened about her. He felt that she yielded easily, as if gladly.
Their mouths sought and clung in the first real kiss Jack MacRae had ever known. And then,
as they relaxed that impulse-born embrace, the lights flashed on again, blazed in a thousand
globes in great frosted clusters high against the gold-leaf decorations of the ceiling. The
dancers caught step again. MacRae and Betty circled the polished floor silently. She floated
in his arms like thistledown, her eyes like twin stars, a deeper color in her cheeks.

Then the music ceased, and they were swept into a chattering group, out of which presently
materialized another partner to claim Betty. So they parted with a smile and a nod.

But MacRae had no mind for dancing. He went out through the lobby and straight to his room.
He flung off his coat and sat down in a chair by the window and blinked out into the night.
He had looked, it seemed to him, into the very gates of paradise,--and he could not go in.

It wasn't possible. He sat peering out over the dusky roofs of the city, damning with silent
oaths the coil in which he found himself inextricably involved. History was repeating itself.
Like father, like son.

There was a difference though. MacRae, as he grew calmer, marked that. Old Donald had lost
his sweetheart by force and trickery. His son must forego love--if it were indeed love--of
his own volition. He had no choice. He saw no way of winning Betty Gower unless he stayed his
hand against her father. And he would not do that. He could not. It would be like going over
to the enemy in the heat of battle. Gower had wronged and persecuted his father. He had beaten
old Donald without mercy in every phase of that thirty-year period. He had taken Donald MacRae's
woman from him in the beginning and his property in the end. Jack MacRae had every reason to
believe Gower merely sat back awaiting a favorable opportunity to crush him.

So there could be no compromising there; no inter-marrying and sentimental burying of the old
feud. Betty would tie his hands. He was afraid of her power to do that. He did not want to
be a Samson shorn. His ego revolted against love interfering with the grim business of everyday
life. He bit his lip and wished he could wipe out that kiss. He cursed himself for a slavish
weakness of the flesh. The night was old when MacRae lay down on his bed. But he could find
no ease for the throbbing ferment within him. He suffered with a pain as keen as if he had
been physically wounded, and the very fact that he could so suffer filled him with dismay.
He had faced death many times with less emotion than he now was facing life.

He had no experience of love. Nothing remotely connected with women had ever suggested such
possibilities of torment. He had known first-hand the pangs of hunger and thirst, of cold and
weariness, of anger and hate, of burning wounds in his flesh. He had always been able to grit
his teeth and endure; none of it had been able to wring his soul. This did. He had come to
manhood, to a full understanding of sex, at a time when he played the greatest game of all,
when all his energies were fiercely centered upon preservation for himself and certain destruction
for other men. Perhaps because he had come back clean, having never wasted himself in complaisant
liaisons overseas, the inevitable focusing of passion stirred him more profoundly. He was neither
a varietist nor a male prude. He was aware of sex. He knew desire. But the flame Betty Gower
had kindled in him made him look at women out of different eyes. Desire had been revealed to
him not as something casual, but as an imperative. As if nature had pulled the blinkers off
his eyes and shown him his mate and the aim and object and law and fiery urge of the mating
instinct all in one blinding flash.

He lay hot and fretful, cursing himself for a fool, yet unable to find ease, wondering dully
if Betty Gower must also suffer as he should, or if it were only an innocent, piquant game
that Betty played. Always in the background of his mind lurked a vision of her father, sitting
back complacently, fat, smug, plump hands on a well-rounded stomach, chuckling a brutal satisfaction
over another MacRae beaten.

MacRae wakened from an uneasy sleep at ten o'clock. He rose and dressed, got his breakfast,
went out on the streets. But Vancouver had all at once grown insufferable. The swarming streets
irritated him. He smoldered inside, and he laid it to the stir and bustle and noise. He conceived
himself to crave hushed places and solitude, where he could sit and think.

By mid-afternoon he was far out in the Gulf of Georgia, aboard a coasting steamer sailing for
island ports. If it occurred to him that he was merely running away from temptation, he did
not admit the fact.

CHAPTER XV

Hearts are Not Always Trumps

If MacRae reckoned on tranquillity in his island seclusion he failed in his reckoning. A man
may fly from temptation, run from a threatening danger, but he cannot run away from himself.
He could not inhibit thought, reflection, surges of emotion generated mysteriously within himself.

He did his best. He sought relief in action. There were a great many things about his freehold
upon which he bestowed feverish labor for a time. He cleared away all the underbrush to the
outer limits of his shrunken heritage. He built a new enclosing fence of neatly split cedar,
installed a pressure system of water in the old house.

"You goin' to get married?" old Peter inquired artlessly one day. "You got all the symptoms--buzzin'
around in your nest like a bumblebee."

And Dolly smiled her slow, enigmatic smile.

Whereupon MacRae abandoned his industry and went off to Blackfish Sound with Vincent in the
Bluebird. The salmon run was long over, but the coastal waters still yielded a supply of edible
fish. There were always a few spring salmon to be taken here and there. Ling, red and rock
cod knew no seasons. Nor the ground fish, plaice, sole, flounders, halibut. Already the advance
guard of the great run of mature herring began to show. For a buyer there was no such profit
in running these fish to market as the profit of the annual salmon run. Still it paid moderately.
So MacRae had turned the Bluebird over to Vin to operate for a time on a share basis. It gave
Vin, who was ambitious and apparently tireless, a chance to make a few hundred dollars in an
off season.

Wherefore MacRae, grown suddenly restless beyond all restraining upon his island, made a trip
or two north with Vin--a working guest on his own vessel--up where the Gulf of Georgia is choked
to narrow passages through which the tidal currents race like mountain streams pent in a gorge,
up where the sea is a maze of waterways among wooded islands. They anchored in strange bays.
They fared once into Queen Charlotte Sound and rode the great ground swell that heaves up from
the far coast of Japan to burst against the rocky outpost of Cape Caution. They doubled on
their tracks and gathered their toll of the sea from fishing boats here and there until the
Bluebird rode deep with cargo, fresh fish to be served on many tables far inland. MacRae often
wondered if the housewife who ordered her weekly ration of fish and those who picked daintily
at the savory morsels with silver forks ever thought how they came by this food. Men till the
sea with pain and risk and infinite labor, as they till the land; only the fisherman with his
nets and hooks and gear does not sow, he only reaps. Nature has attended diligently to the
sowing, from the Cape of Good Hope to Martha's Vineyard, from Bering Strait to Botany Bay.

But MacRae soon had enough of that and came back to Squitty, to his fireplace and his books.
He had been accustomed to enjoy the winters, the clear crisp mornings that varied weeks of
drenching rain which washed the land clean; to prowl about in the woods with a gun when he
needed meat; to bask before a bed of coals in the fireplace through long evenings when the
wind howled and the rain droned on the roof and the sea snored along the rocky beaches. That
had been in days before he learned the weight of loneliness, when his father had been there
to sit quietly beside the fire smoking a pipe, when Dolly Ferrara ran wild in the woods with
him or they rode for pure sport the tumbling seas in a dugout canoe.

Now winter was a dull inaction, a period of discontent, in which thought gnawed at him like
an ingrowing toenail. Everything seemed out of joint. He found himself feverishly anxious for
spring, for the stress and strain of another tilt with Folly Bay. Sometimes he asked himself
where he would come out, even if he won all along the line, if he made money, gained power,
beat Gower ultimately to his knees, got back his land. He did not try to peer too earnestly
into the future. It seemed a little misty. He was too much concerned with the immediate present,
looming big with possibilities of good or evil for himself. Things did not seem quite so simple
as at first. A great many complications, wholly unforeseen, had arisen since he came back from
France. But he was committed to certain undertakings from which he neither wished nor intended
to turn aside,--not so long as he had the will to choose.

Christmas came again, and with it the gathering of the Ferraras for their annual reunion,--Old
Manuel and Joaquin, young Manuel and Ambrose and Vincent. Steve they could speak of now quite
casually. He had died in his sea boots like many another Ferrara. It was a pity, of course,
but it was the chance of his calling. And the gathering was stronger in numbers, even with
Steve gone. Ambrose had taken himself a wife, a merry round-cheeked girl whose people were
coaxing Ambrose to quit the sea for a more profitable undertaking in timber. And also Norman
Gower was there.

MacRae did not quite know how to take that young man. He had had stray contacts with Norman
during the last few weeks. For a rich man's son he was not running true to form. He and Long
Tom Spence had struck up a partnership in a group of mineral claims on the Knob, that conical
mountain which lifted like one of the pyramids out of the middle of Squitty Island. There had
been much talk of those claims. Years ago Bill Munro--he who died of the flu in his cabin beside
the Cove--had staked those claims. Munro was a young man then, a prospector. He had inveigled
other men to share his hopes and labors, to grubstake him while he drove the tunnel that was
to cut the vein. MacRae's father had taken a hand in this. So had Peter Ferrara. But these
informal partnerships had always lapsed. Old Bill Munro's prospects had never got beyond the
purely prospective stage. The copper was there, ample traces of gold and silver. But he never
developed a showing big enough to lure capital. When Munro died the claims had been long abandoned.

Long Tom Spence had suddenly relocated them. Some working agreement had included Uncle Peter
and young Gower. Long Tom went about hinting mysteriously of fortunes. Peter Ferrara even admitted
that there was a good showing. Norman had been there for weeks, living with Spence in a shack,
sweating day after day in the tunnel. They were all beginning to speak of it as "the mine."

Norman had rid himself of that grouchy frown. He was always singing or whistling or laughing.
His fair, rather florid face glowed with a perpetual good nature. He treated MacRae to the
same cheerful, careless air that he had for everything and everybody. And when he was about
Uncle Peter's house at the Cove he monopolized Dolly, an attitude which Dolly herself as well
as her uncle seemed to find agreeable and proper.

MacRae finally found himself compelled to accept Norman Gower as part of the group. He was
a little surprised to find that he harbored no decided feeling about young Gower, one way or
the other. If he felt at all, it was a mild impatience that another man had established a relation
with Dolly Ferrara which put aside old friendships. He found himself constrained more and more
to treat Dolly like any other pleasant young woman of his acquaintance. He did not quite like
that. He and Dolly Ferrara had been such good chums. Besides, he privately considered that
Dolly was throwing herself away on a man weak enough to make the tragic blunder young Gower
had made in London. But that was their own affair. Altogether, MacRae found it quite impossible
to muster up any abiding grudge against young Gower on his own account.

So he let matters stand and celebrated Christmas with them. Afterward they got aboard the Bluebird
and went to a dance at Potter's Landing, where for all that Jack MacRae was the local hero,
both of the great war and the salmon war of the past season, both Dolly and Norman, he privately
conceded, enjoyed themselves a great deal more than he did. Their complete absorption in each
other rather irritated him.

They came back to the Cove early in the morning. The various Ferraras disposed themselves about
Peter's house to sleep, and MacRae went on to his own place. About an hour after daybreak he
saw Norman Gower pass up the bush trail to the mine with a heavy pack of provisions on his
back. And MacRae wondered idly if Norman was bucking the game in earnest, strictly on his own,
and why?

Late in January the flash of a white skirt and a sky-blue sweater past his dooryard apprised
MacRae that Betty was back. And he did not want to see Betty or talk with her. He hoped her
stay would be brief. He even asked himself testily why people like that wanted to come to a
summer dwelling in the middle of winter. But her sojourn was not so brief as he hoped. At divers
times thereafter he saw her in the distance, faring to and fro from Peter Ferrara's house,
out on the trail that ran to the Knob, several times when the sea was calm paddling a canoe
or rowing alongshore. Also he had glimpses of the thickset figure of Horace Gower walking along
the cliffs. MacRae avoided both. That was easy enough, since he knew every nook and bush and
gully on that end of the island. But the mere sight of Gower was an irritation. He resented
the man's presence. It affected him like a challenge. It set him always pondering ways and
means to secure ownership of those acres again and forever bar Gower from walking along those
cliffs with that masterful air of possession. Only a profound distaste for running away from
anything kept him from quitting the island while they were there, those two, one of whom he
was growing to hate far beyond the original provocation, the other whom he loved,--for MacRae
admitted reluctantly, resentfully, that he did love Betty, and he was afraid of where that
emotion might lead him. He recognized the astonishing power of passion. It troubled him, stirred
up an amazing conflict at times between his reason and his impulses. He fell back always upon
the conclusion that love was an irrational thing anyway, that it should not be permitted to
upset a man's logical plan of existence. But he was never very sure that this conclusion would
stand a practical test.

The southern end of Squitty was not of such vast scope that two people could roam here and
there without sometime coming face to face, particularly when these two were a man and a woman,
driven by a spirit of restlessness to lonely wanderings. MacRae went into the woods with his
rifle one day in search of venison. He wounded a buck, followed him down a long canyon, and
killed his game within sight of the sea. He took the carcass by a leg and dragged it through
the bright green salal brush. As he stepped out of a screening thicket on to driftwood piled
by storm and tide, he saw a rowboat hauled up on the shingle above reach of short, steep breakers,
and a second glance showed him Betty sitting on a log close by, looking at him.

"Stormbound?" he asked her.

"Yes. I was rowing and the wind came up."

She rose and came over to look at the dead deer.

"What beautiful animals they are!" she said. "Isn't it a pity to kill them?"

"It's a pity, too, to kill cattle and sheep and pigs, to haul fish by the gills out of the
sea," MacRae replied; "to trap marten and mink and fox and beaver and bear for their skins.
But men must eat and women must wear furs."

"How horribly logical you are," Betty murmured. "You make a natural sympathy appear wishy-washy
sentimentalism."

She reseated herself on the log. MacRae sat down beside her. He looked at her searchingly.
He could not keep his eyes away. A curious inconsistency was revealed to him. He sat beside
Betty, responding to the potent stimuli of her nearness and wishing pettishly that she were
a thousand miles away, so that he would not be troubled by the magic of her lips and eyes and
unruly hair, the musical cadences of her voice. There was a subtle quality of expectancy about
her, as if she sat there waiting for him to say something, do something, as if her mere presence
were powerful to compel him to speak and act as she desired. MacRae realized the fantasy of
those impressions. Betty sat looking at him calmly, her hands idle in her lap. If there were
in her soul any of the turmoil that was fast rising in his, it was not outwardly manifested
by any sign whatever. For that matter, MacRae knew that he himself was placid enough on the
surface. Nor did he feel the urge of inconsequential speech. There was no embarrassment in
that mutual silence, only the tug of a compelling desire to take her in his arms, which he
must resist.

"There are times," Betty said at last, "when you live up to your nickname with a vengeance."

"There are times," MacRae replied slowly, "when that is the only wise thing for a man to do."

"And you, I suppose, rather pride yourself on being wise in your day and generation."

There was gentle raillery in her tone.

"I don't like you to be sarcastic," he said.

"I don't think you like me sarcastic or otherwise," Betty observed, after a moment's silence.

"But I do," he protested. "That's the devil of it. I do--and you know I do. It would be a great
deal better if I didn't."

Betty's fingers began to twist in her lap. The color rose faintly in her smooth cheeks. Her
eyes turned to the sea.

"I don't know why," she said gently. "I'd hate to think it would."

MacRae did not find any apt reply to that. His mind was in an agonized muddle, in which he
could only perceive one or two things with any degree of clearness. Betty loved him. He was
sure of that. He could tell her that he loved her. And then? Therein arose the conflict. Marriage
was the natural sequence of love. And when he contemplated marriage with Betty he found himself
unable to detach her from her background, in which lurked something which to MacRae's imagination
loomed sinister, hateful. To make peace with Horace Gower--granting that Gower was willing
for such a consummation--for love of his daughter struck MacRae as something very near to dishonor.
And if, contrariwise, he repeated to Betty the ugly story which involved her father and his
father, she would be harassed by irreconcilable forces even if she cared enough to side with
him against her own people. MacRae was gifted with acute perception, in some things. He said
to himself despairingly--nor was it the first time that he had said it--that you cannot mix
oil and water.

He could do nothing at all. That was the sum of his ultimate conclusions. His hands were tied.
He could not go back and he could not go on. He sat beside Betty, longing to take her in his
arms and still fighting stoutly against that impulse. He was afraid of his impulses.

A faint moisture broke out on his face with that acute nervous strain. A lump rose chokingly
in his throat. He stared out at the white-crested seas that came marching up the Gulf before
a rising wind until his eyes grew misty. Then he slid down off the log and laid his head on
Betty's knee. A weight of dumb grief oppressed him. He wanted to cry, and he was ashamed of
his weakness.

Betty's fingers stole caressingly over his bare head, rumpled his hair, stroked his hot cheek.

"Johnny-boy," she said at last, "what is it that comes like a fog between you and me?"

MacRae did not answer.

"I make love to you quite openly," Betty went on. "And I don't seem to be the least bit ashamed
of doing so. I'm not a silly kid. I'm nearly as old as you are, and I know quite well what
I want--which happens to be you. I love you, Silent John. The man is supposed to be the pursuer.
But I seem to have that instinct myself. Besides," she laughed tremulously, "this is leap year.
And, remember, you kissed me. Or did I kiss you? Which was it, Jack?"

MacRae seated himself on the log beside her. He put his arm around her and drew her close to
him. That disturbing wave of emotion which had briefly mastered him was gone. He felt only
a passionate tenderness for Betty and a pity for them both. But he had determined what to do.

"I do love you, Betty," he said--"your hair and your eyes and your lips and the sound of your
voice and the way you walk and everything that is you. Is that quite plain enough? It's a sort
of emotional madness."

"Well, I am afflicted with the same sort of madness," she admitted. "And I like it. It is natural."

"But you wouldn't like it if you knew it meant a series of mental and spiritual conflicts that
would be almost like physical torture," he said slowly. "You'd be afraid of it."

"And you?" she demanded.

"Yes," he said simply. "I am."

"Then you're a poor sort of lover," she flung at him, and freed herself from his arms with
a quick twist of her body. Her breast heaved. She moved away from him.

"I'll admit being a poor lover, perhaps," MacRae said. "I didn't want to love you. I shouldn't
love you. I really ought to hate you. I don't, but if I was consistent, I should. I ought to
take every opportunity to hurt you just because you are a Gower. I have good reason to do so.
I can't tell you why--or at least I am not going to tell you why. I don't think it would mend
matters if I did. I dare say I'm a better fighter than a lover. I fight in the open, on the
square. And because I happen to care enough to shrink from making you risk things I can't dodge,
I'm a poor lover. Well, perhaps I am."

"I didn't really mean that, Jack," Betty muttered.

"I know you didn't," he returned gently. "But I mean what I have just said."

"You mean that for some reason which I do not know and which you will not tell me, there is
such bad blood between you and my father that you can't--you won't--won't even take a chance
on me?"

"Something like that," MacRae admitted. "Only you put it badly. You'd either tie my hands,
which I couldn't submit to, or you'd find yourself torn between two factions, and life would
be a pretty sad affair."

"I asked you once before, and you told me it was something that happened before either of us
was born," Betty said thoughtfully. "I am going to get at the bottom of this somehow. I wonder
if you do really care, or if this is all camouflage,--if you're just playing with me to see
how big a fool I will make of myself."

That queer mistrust of him which suddenly clouded Betty's face and made her pretty mouth harden
roused Jack MacRae to an intolerable fury. It was like a knife in a tender spot. He had been
stifling the impulse to forget and bury all these ancient wrongs and injustices for which neither
of them was responsible but for which, so far as he could see, they must both suffer. Something
cracked in him at Betty's words. She jumped, warned by the sudden blaze in his eyes. But he
caught her with a movement quicker than her own. He held her by the arms with fingers that
gripped like iron clamps. He shook her.

"You wonder if I really care," he cried. "My God, can't you see? Can't you feel? Must a man
grovel and weep and rave?"

Betty whitened a little at this storm which she had evoked. But she did not flinch. Her eyes
looked straight into his, fearlessly.

"You are raving now," she said. "And you are hurting my arms terribly."

MacRae released his hold on her. His hands dropped to his sides.

"I suppose I was," he said in a flat, lifeless tone. "But don't say that to me again, ever.
You can say anything you like, Betty, except that I'm not in earnest. I don't deserve that."

Betty retreated a little. MacRae was not even looking at her now. His eyes were turned to the
sea, to hide the blur that crept into them in spite of his will.

"You don't deserve anything," Betty said distinctly. She moved warily away as she spoke. "You
have the physical courage to face death; but you haven't the moral courage to face a problem
in living, even though you love me. You take it for granted that I'm as weak as you are. You
won't even give me a chance to prove whether love is strong or weak in the face of trouble.
And I will never give you another chance--never."

She sprang from the beach to the low pile of driftwood and from that plunged into the thicket.
MacRae did not try to follow. He did not even move. He looked after her a minute. Then he sat
down on the log again and stared at the steady march of the swells. There was a sense of finality
in this thing which made him flounder desperately. Still, he assured himself, it had to be.
And if it had to be that way it was better to have it so understood. Betty would never look
at him again with that disturbing message in her eyes. He would not be troubled by a futile
longing. But it hurt. He had never imagined how so abstract a thing as emotion could breed
such an ache in a man's heart.

After a little he got up. There was a trail behind that thicket, an old game trail widened
by men's feet, that ran along the seaward slope to Cradle Bay. He went up now to this path.
His eye, used to the practice of woodcraft, easily picked up tiny heel marks, toe prints, read
their message mechanically. Betty had been running. She had gone home.

He went back to the beach. The rowboat and the rising tide caught his attention. He hauled
the boat up on the driftwood so that it should not float away. Then he busied himself on the
deer's legs with a knife for a minute and shouldered the carcass.

It was a mile and a half across country to the head of Squitty Cove. He had intended to hang
his deer in a tree by the beach and come for it later with a boat. Now he took up this hundred-pound
burden for the long carry over steep hills and through brushy hollows in the spirit of the
medieval flagellantes, mortifying his flesh for the ease of his soul.

An hour or so later he came out on a knoll over-looking all the southeastern face of Squitty.
Below, the wind-harassed Gulf spread its ruffled surface. He looked down on the cliffs and
the Cove and Cradle Bay. He could see Gower's cottage white among the green, one chimney spitting
blue smoke that the wind carried away in a wispy banner. He could see a green patch behind
his own house with the white headboard that marked his father's grave. He could see Poor Man's
Rock bare its kelp-grown head between seas, and on the point above the Rock a solitary figure,
squat and brown, that he knew must be Horace Gower.

MacRae laid down his pack to rest his aching shoulders. But there was no resting the ache in
his heart. Nor was it restful to gaze upon any of these things within the span of his eye.
He was reminded of too much which it was not good to remember. As he sat staring down on the
distant Rock and a troubled sea with an intolerable heaviness in his breast, he recalled that
so must his father have looked down on Poor Man's Rock in much the same anguished spirit long
ago. And Jack MacRae's mind reacted morbidly to the suggestion, the parallel. His eyes turned
with smoldering fire to the stumpy figure on the tip of Point Old.

"I'll pay it all back yet," he gritted. "Betty or no Betty, I'll make him wish he'd kept his
hands off the MacRaes."

       *       *       *       *       *

About the time Jack MacRae with his burden of venison drew near his own dooryard, Betty Gower
came out upon the winter-sodden lawn before their cottage and having crossed it ran lightly
up the steps to the wide porch. From there she saw her father standing on the Point. She called
to him. At her hail he came trudging to the house. Betty was piling wood in the living-room
fireplace when he came in.

"I was beginning to worry about you," he said.

"The wind got too much for me," she answered, "so I put the boat on the beach a mile or so
along and walked home."

Gower drew a chair up to the fire.

"Blaze feels good," he remarked. "There's a chill in this winter air."

Betty made no comment.

"Getting lonesome?" he inquired after a minute. "It seems to me you've been restless the last
day or two. Want to go back to town, Betty?"

"I wonder why we come here and stay and stay, out of reach of everything and everybody?" she
said at last.

"Blest if I know," Gower answered casually. "Except that we like to. It's a restful place,
isn't it? You work harder at having a good time in town than I ever did making money. Well,
we don't have to be hermits unless we like. We'll go back to mother and the giddy whirl to-morrow,
if you like."

"We might as well, I think," she said absently.

For a minute neither spoke. The fire blazed up in a roaring flame. Raindrops slashed suddenly
against the windows out of a storm-cloud driven up by the wind. Betty turned her eyes on her
father.

"Did you ever do anything to Jack MacRae that would give him reason to hate you?" she asked
bluntly.

Gower shook his head without troubling to look at her. He kept his face steadfastly to the fire.

"No," he said. "The other way about, if anything. He put a crimp in me last season."

"I remember you said you were going to smash him," she said thoughtfully.

"Did I?" he made answer in an indifferent tone. "Well, I might. And then again I might not.
He may do the smashing. He's a harder proposition than I figured he would be, in several ways."

"That isn't it," Betty said, as if to herself. "Then you must have had some trouble with his
father--long ago. Something that hurt him enough for him to pass a grudge on to Jack. What
was it, daddy? Anything real?"

"Jack, eh?" Gower passed over the direct question. "You must be getting on. Have you been seeing
much of that young man lately?"

"What does that matter?" Betty returned impatiently. "Of course I see him. Is there any reason
I shouldn't?"

Gower picked up a brass poker. He leaned forward, digging aimlessly at the fire, stirring up
tiny cascades of sparks that were sucked glowing into the black chimney throat.

"Perhaps no reason that would strike you as valid," he said slowly. "Still--I don't know. Do
you like him?"

"You won't answer my questions," Betty complained. "Why should I answer yours?"

"There are plenty of nice young fellows in your own crowd," Gower went on, still poking mechanically
at the fire. "Why pick on young MacRae?"

"You're evading, daddy," Betty murmured. "Why shouldn't I pick on Jack MacRae if I like him--if
he likes me? That's what I'm trying to find out."

"Does he?" Gower asked pointblank.

"Yes," Betty admitted in a reluctant whisper. "He does--but--why don't you tell me, daddy,
what I'm up against, as you would say? What did you ever do to old Donald MacRae that his son
should have a feeling that is stronger than love?"

"You think he loves you?"

"I know it," Betty murmured.

"And you?" Gower's deep voice seemed harsh.

Betty threw out her hands in an impatient gesture.

"Must I shout it out loud?" she cried.

"You always were different from most girls, in some things," Gower observed reflectively. "Iron
under your softness. I never knew you to stop trying to get anything you really wanted, not
while there was a chance to get it. Still--don't you think it would be as well for you to stop
wanting young MacRae--since he doesn't want you bad enough to try to get you? Eh?"

He still kept his face studiously averted. His tone was kind, full of a peculiar tenderness
that he kept for Betty alone.

She rose and perched herself on the arm of his chair, caught and drew his head against her,
forced him to look up into eyes preternaturally bright.

"You don't seem to understand," she said. "It isn't that Jack doesn't want me badly enough.
He could have me, and I think he knows that too. But there is something, something that drives
him the other way. He loves me. I know he does. And still he has spells of hating all us Gowers--especially
you. I know he wouldn't do that without reason."

"Doesn't he tell you the reason?"

Betty shook her head.

"Would I be asking you, daddy?"

"I can't tell you, either," Gower rumbled deep in his throat.

"Is it something that can't be mended?" Betty put her face down against his, and he felt the
tears wet on her cheek. "Think, daddy. I'm beginning to be terribly unhappy."

"That seems to be a family failing," Gower muttered. "I can't mend it, Betty. I don't know
what young MacRae knows or what he feels, but I can guess. I'd make it worse if I meddled.
Should I go to this hot-headed young fool and say, 'Come on, let's shake hands, and you marry
my daughter'?"

"Don't be absurd," Betty flashed. "I'm not asking you to do anything."

"I couldn't do anything in this case if I wanted to," Gower declared. "As a matter of fact,
I think I'd put young MacRae out of my head, if I were you. I wouldn't pick him for a husband,
anyway."

Betty rose to her feet.

"You brought me into the world," she said passionately. "You have fed me and clothed me and
educated me and humored all my whims ever since I can remember. But you can't pick a husband
for me. I shall do that for myself. It's silly to tell me to put Jack MacRae out of my head.
He isn't in my head. He's in my--my--heart. And I can keep him there, if I can't have him in
my arms. Put him out of my head! You talk as if loving and marrying were like dealing in fish."

"I wish it were," Gower rumbled. "I might have had some success at it myself."

Betty did not even vouchsafe reply. Probably she did not even hear what he said. She turned
and went to the window, stood looking out at the rising turmoil of the sea, at the lowering
scud of the clouds, dabbing surreptitiously at her eyes with a handkerchief. After a little
she walked out of the room. Her feet sounded lightly on the stairs.

Gower bent to the fire again. He resumed his aimless stirring of the coals. A grim, twisted
smile played about his lips. But his eyes were as somber as the storm-blackened winter sky.

CHAPTER XVI

En Famille

Horace Gower's town house straddled the low crest of a narrow peninsula which juts westward
into the Gulf from the heart of the business section of Vancouver. The tip of this peninsula
ends in the green forest of Stanley Park, which is like no other park in all North America,
either in its nature or its situation. It is a sizable stretch of ancient forest, standing
within gunshot of skyscrapers, modern hotels, great docks where China freighters unload tea
and silk. Hard on the flank of a modern seaport this area of primitive woodland broods in the
summer sun and the winter rains not greatly different from what it must have been in those
days when only the Siwash Indians penetrated its shadowy depths.

The rear of Gower's house abutted against the park, neighbor to great tall firs and massive,
branchy cedars and a jungle of fern and thicket bisected by a few paths and drives, with the
sea lapping all about three sides of its seven-mile boundary. From Gower's northward windows
the Capilano canyon opened between two mountains across the Inlet. Southward other windows
gave on English Bay and beach sands where one could count a thousand swimmers on a summer afternoon.

The place was only three blocks from Abbott's. The house itself was not unlike Abbott's, built
substantially of gray stone and set in ample grounds. But it was a good deal larger, and both
within and without it was much more elaborate, as befitted the dwelling of a successful man
whose wife was socially a leader instead of a climber,--like so many of Vancouver's newly rich.
There was order and system and a smooth, unobtrusive service in that home. Mrs. Horace A. Gower
rather prided herself on the noiseless, super-efficient operation of her domestic machinery.
Any little affair was sure to go off without a hitch, to be quite charming, you know. Mrs.
Gower had a firmly established prestige along certain lines. Her business in life was living
up to that prestige, not only that it might be retained but judiciously expanded.

Upon a certain March morning, however, Mrs. Gower seemed to be a trifle shaken out of her usual
complacency. She sat at a rather late breakfast, facing her husband, flanked on either hand
by her son and daughter. There was an injured droop to Mrs. Gower's mouth, a slightly indignant
air about her. The conversation had reached a point where Mrs. Gower felt impelled to remove
her pince-nez and polish them carefully with a bit of cloth. This was an infallible sign of
distress.

"I cannot see the least necessity for it, Norman," she resumed in a slightly agitated, not
to say petulant tone. "It's simply ridiculous for a young man of your position to be working
at common labor with such terribly common people. It's degrading."

Norman was employing himself upon a strip of bacon.

"That's a mere matter of opinion," he replied at length. "Somebody has to work. I have to do
something for myself sometime, and it suits me to begin now, in this particular manner which
annoys you so much. I don't mind work. And those copper claims are a rattling good prospect.
Everybody says so. We'll make a barrel of money out of them yet. Why shouldn't I peel off my
coat and go at it?"

"By the way," Gower asked bluntly, "what occasioned this flying trip to England?"

Norman pushed back his chair a trifle, thrust his hands in his trousers pockets and looked
straight at his father.

"My own private business," he answered as bluntly.

"You people," he continued after a brief interval, "seem to think I'm still in knee breeches."

But this did not serve to turn his mother from her theme.

"It is quite unnecessary for you to attempt making money in such a primitive manner," she observed.
"We have plenty of money. There is plenty of opportunity for you in your father's business,
if you must be in business."

"Huh!" Norman grunted. "I'm no good in my father's business, nor anywhere else, in his private
opinion. It's no good, mamma. I'm on my own for keeps. I'm going through with it. I've been
a jolly fizzle so far. I'm not even a blooming war hero. You just stop bothering about me."

"I really can't think what's got into you," Mrs. Gower complained in a tone which implied volumes
of reproach. "It's bad enough for your father and Betty to be running off and spending so much
time at that miserable cottage when so much is going on here. I'm simply exhausted keeping
things up without any help from them. But this vagary of yours--I really can't consider it
anything else--is most distressing. To live in a dirty little cabin and cook your own food,
to associate with such men--it's simply dreadful! Haven't you any regard for our position?"

"I'm fed up with our position," Norman retorted. A sullen look was gathering about his mouth.
"What does it amount to? A lot of people running around in circles, making a splash with their
money. You, and the sort of thing you call our position, made a sissy of me right up till the
war came along. There was nothing I was good for but parlor tricks. And you and everybody else
expected me to react from that and set things afire overseas. I didn't. I didn't begin to come
up to your expectations at all. But if I didn't split Germans with a sword or do any heroics
I did get some horse sense knocked into me--unbelievable as that may appear to you. I learned
that there was a sort of satisfaction in doing things. I'm having a try at that now. And you
needn't imagine I'm going to be wet-nursed along by your money.

"As for my associates, and the degrading influences that fill you with such dismay," Norman's
voice flared into real anger, "they may not have much polish--but they're human. I like them,
so far as they go. I've been frostbitten enough by the crowd I grew up with, since I came home,
to appreciate being taken for what I am, not what I may or may not have done. Since I have
discovered myself to have a funny sort of feeling about living on your money, it behooves me
to get out and make what money I need for myself--in view of the fact that I'm going to be
married quite soon. I am going to marry"--Norman rose and looked down at his mother with something
like a flicker of amusement in his eyes as he exploded his final bombshell--"a fisherman's
daughter. A poor but worthy maiden," he finished with unexpected irony.

"Norman!" His mother's voice was a wail. "A common fisherman's daughter? Oh, my son, my son."

She shed a few beautifully restrained tears.

"A common fisherman's daughter. Exactly," Norman drawled. "Terrible thing, of course. Funny
the fish scales on the family income never trouble you."

Mrs. Gower glared at him through her glasses.

"Who is this--this woman?" she demanded.

"Dolly," Betty whispered under her breath.

"Miss Dolores Ferrara of Squitty Cove," Norman answered imperturbably.

"A foreigner besides. Great Heavens! Horace," Mrs. Gower appealed to her husband, "have you
no influence whatever with your son?"

"Mamma," Betty put in, "I assure you you are making a tremendous fuss about nothing. I can
tell you that Dolly Ferrara is really quite a nice girl. I think Norman is rather lucky."

"Thanks, Bet," Norman said promptly. "That's the first decent thing I've heard in this discussion."

Mrs. Gower turned the battery of her indignant eyes on her daughter.

"You, I presume," she said spitefully, "will be thinking of marrying some fisherman next?"

"If she did, Bessie," Gower observed harshly, "it would only be history repeating itself."

Mrs. Gower flushed, paled a little, and reddened again. She glared--no other word describes
her expression--at her husband for an instant. Then she took refuge behind her dignity.

"There is a downright streak of vulgarity in you, Horace," she said, "which I am sorry to see
crop out in my children."

"Thank you, mamma," Betty remarked evenly.

Mrs. Gower whirled on Norman.

"I wash my hands of you completely," she said imperiously. "I am ashamed of you."

"I'd rather you'd be ashamed of me," Norman retorted, "than that I should be ashamed of myself."

"And you, sir,"--he faced his father, speaking in a tone of formal respect which did not conceal
a palpable undercurrent of defiance--"you also, I suppose, wash your hands of me?"

Gower looked at him for a second. His face was a mask, devoid of expression.

"You're a man grown," he said. "Your mother has expressed herself as she might be expected
to. I say nothing."

Norman walked to the door.

"I don't care a deuce of a lot what you say or what you don't say, nor even what you think,"
he flung at them angrily, with his hand on the knob. "I have my own row to hoe. I'm going to
hoe it my own style. And that's all there is to it. If you can't even wish me luck, why, you
can go to the devil!"

"Norman!" His mother lifted her voice in protesting horror. Gower himself only smiled, a bit
cynically. And Betty looked at the door which closed upon her brother with a wistful sort of
astonishment.

Gower first found occasion for speech.

"While we are on the subject of intimate family affairs, Bessie," he addressed his wife casually,
"I may as well say that I shall have to call on you for some funds--about thirty thousand dollars.
Forty thousand would be better."

Mrs. Gower stiffened to attention. She regarded her husband with an air of complete disapproval,
slightly tinctured with surprise.

"Oh," she said, "really?"

"I shall need that much properly to undertake this season's operations," he stated calmly,
almost indifferently.

"Really?" she repeated. "Are you in difficulties again?"

"Again?" he echoed. "It is fifteen years since I was in a corner where I needed any of your money."

"It seems quite recent to me," Mrs. Gower observed stiffly.

"Am I to understand from that that you don't care to advance me whatever sum I require?" he
asked gently.

"I don't see why I should," Mrs. Gower replied after a second's reflection, "even if I were
quite able to do so. This place costs something to keep up. I can't very well manage on less
than two thousand a month. And Betty and I must be clothed. You haven't contributed much recently,
Horace."

"No? I had the impression that I had been contributing pretty freely for thirty years," Gower
returned dryly. "I paid the bills up to December. Last season wasn't a particularly good one--for
me."

"That was chiefly due to your own mismanagement, I should say," Mrs. Gower commented tartly.
"Putting the whole cannery burden on Norman when the poor boy had absolutely no experience.
Really, you must have mismanaged dreadfully. I heard only the other day that the Robbin-Steele
plants did better last season than they ever did. I'm sure the Abbotts made money last year.
If the banks have lost faith in your business ability, I--well, I should consider you a bad
risk, Horace. I can't afford to gamble."

"You never do. You only play cinches," Gower grunted. "However, your money will be safe enough.
I didn't say the banks refuse me credit. I have excellent reasons for borrowing of you."

"I really do not see how I can possibly let you have such a sum," she said. "You already have
twenty thousand dollars of my money tied up in your business, you know."

"You have an income of twelve thousand a year from the Maple Point place," Gower recited in
that unchanging, even tone. "You have over twenty thousand cash on deposit. And you have eighty
thousand dollars in Victory Bonds. You mean you don't want to, Bessie."

"You may accept that as my meaning," she returned.

"There are times in every man's career," Gower remarked dispassionately, "when the lack of
a little money might break him."

"That is all the more reason why I should safeguard my funds," Mrs. Gower replied. "You are
not as young as you were, Horace. If you should fail now, you would likely never get on your
feet again. But we could manage, I dare say, on what I have. That is why I do not care to risk
any of it."

"You refuse then, absolutely, to let me have this money?" he asked.

"I do," Mrs. Gower replied, with an air of pained but conscious rectitude. "I should consider
myself most unwise to do so."

"All right," Gower returned indifferently. "You force me to a showdown. I have poured money
into your hands for years for you to squander in keeping up your position--as you call it.
I'm about through doing that. I'm sick of aping millionaires. All I need is a comfortable place
where I can smoke a pipe in peace. This house is mine. I shall sell it and repay you your twenty
thousand. You--"

"Horace! Sell this house. Our home! Horace."

"Our home?" Gower continued inflexibly. "The place where we eat and sleep and entertain, you
mean. We never had a home, Bessie. You will have your ancestral hall at Maple Point. You will
be quite able to afford a Vancouver house if you choose. But this is mine, and it's going into
the discard. I shall owe you nothing. I shall still have the cottage at Cradle Bay, if I go
smash, and that is quite good enough for me. Do I make myself clear?"

Mrs. Gower was sniffing. She had taken refuge with the pince-nez and the polishing cloth. But
her fingers were tremulous, and her expression was that of a woman who feels herself sadly
abused and who is about to indulge in luxurious weeping.

"But, Horace, to sell this house over my head--what will p-people say?"

"I don't care two whoops what people say," Mr. Gower replied unfeelingly.

"This is simp-ply outrageous! How is Betty going to m-meet p-people?"

"You mean," her husband retorted, "how are you going to contrive the proper background against
which Betty shall display her charms to the different varieties of saphead which you hit upon
as being eligible to marry her? Don't worry. With the carefully conserved means at your disposal
you will still be able to maintain yourself in the station in which it has pleased God to place
you. You will be able to see that Betty has the proper advantages."

This straw broke the camel's back, if it is proper so to speak of a middle-aged, delicate-featured
lady, delightfully gowned and coiffed and manicured. Mrs. Gower's grief waxed crescendo. Whereupon
her husband, with no manifest change of expression beyond an unpleasant narrowing of his eyes,
heaved his short, flesh-burdened body out of the chair and left the room.

Betty had sat silent through this conversation, a look of profound distaste slowly gathering
on her fresh young face. He will be careful, however, in his written work not to make use of
the current jargon, especially of the French court and women's circles, or of any locutions
that are not yet generally received. For the life of such expressions is too short to be bound
into a lasting work--not to speak of the detestable affectation which
detracts from the weight and dignity of the writing.

To conclude, there is a beauty and charm in propriety and elegance of diction which is not
to be scorned, though it is but of a time, and, since it rests on
opinion, by which usage is determined, will pass away with a change
of opinion.

Hence those who write not for an age but for all time should try
to attain something else, something that has no admixture of opinion:
Such is the agreement of words with nature, which we will now explain.

The inner and more intimate agreement of words and nature.

If one wishes to look deeply into the nature of the human mind and
to search out its inner sources of delight, he will find there something
of strength conjoined with something of weakness, and out of this
circumstance arises variety and irregularity.

The mind's vexation with a continual relaxation derives from its
strength, while from its weakness stems the fact that it cannot bear
a continual straining.

Hence it is that nothing pleases the human mind very long, nothing that is all of one piece. So
in music it rejects a wholly perfect harmony, and for this reason musicians deliberately intercalate
discordant sounds--what are technically called dissonances.

So, finally, it happens that physical exercise, even if it was at first undertaken for pleasure,
becomes a torture when continued without interruption.

This point has its pertinence to literature, the more so since in
that field nature reveals the greatest delicacy and cannot long endure
what is lofty and excited.

Yet on the other hand, whatever creeps close to earth and never lifts
its head is, if it be prolonged, wearisome.

To stand, to rest, to rise up, to be thrown down, this is what every reader or listener desires,
and from this derives the driving necessity for variety, for the
mingling of the majestic and slight, excited and calm, high and low.

But it may seem that this consideration has little pertinence to
the epigram, which is brief and so in less need of variety.

However, I need not apologize for introducing these more general considerations since others
of more immediate pertinence to the course of our discussion are derived from them, and particularly
the question of the discriminate use of metaphors, which are of considerable
effect in adorning or vitiating poetry.

For if we consider attentively why men are pleased with metaphors
we will find no other reason than that already stated: the weakness
of nature which is wearied by the inflexibility of truth and plain
statement and must be refreshed by an admixture of metaphors which
depart somewhat from the truth.

This gives the clue to the proper and legitimate use of metaphors; they are to be employed
specifically, as musicians employ discordant sounds, to relieve the distaste of perfect harmony.
But how frequently and at what point they should be introduced is
a matter of considerable caution and skill.

One warning will suffice for the present: that metaphors, hyperboles, and whatever varies
from the plain and natural way of saying something should not be
sought for their own sakes but as a kind of relief for nauseated nature.

They are to be accepted on grounds of necessity, and consequently a good deal of moderation must
be observed in their use. Thus Quintilian rightly says, "A sparing and opportune use of these
figures gives lustre to speech; frequent use obscures and fills with
disgust."[6] You will discover this fault often in many epigrams,
especially in those of contemporary writers as I shall show by several
examples later on.

However, lest this doctrine should issue in too strict an austerity
of diction, it should be noted that only those expressions are to
be taken as metaphors that are remote from ordinary usage and offer
the mind a double idea.

Hence if a metaphor is so commonplace that it no longer has a figurative
connotation and suggests nothing other than the notion itself for
which it is used, then it should be numbered among proper rather than
metaphorical expressions and does not fall in that class of tropes
whose too frequent use is here censured.

On a too metaphorical style. Certain epigrams rejected for this reason.

Though poets are granted a greater indulgence in the use of tropes,
nevertheless they have their own mean, or, as Cicero says, their own
modesty, and there is ever an especial ornament to be derived from
simplicity.

Consequently those writers stray pretty far from beauty for whom, as it were, all nature plays
the ham to the point that they say nothing in an ordinary way, imagine nothing in the way in which
it is perceived outside of poems, but instead elevate, debase, alter, and clothe everything in
a theatrical mask. For this reason we have excluded from this anthology a number of epigrams
as too metaphorical: for example, these two by Daniel Heinsius, a man otherwise eminent in
scholarship and letters:

Driver of light, courier of the bright pole, Surveyor of the sky, and hour-divider, Servant of
time, circler perpetual, Cleanser of earth, disperser of the clouds, Ever your chariot, fiery
four-in-hand, You curb fast; you who bear on the bright day Steal from the world once more
your countenance And of your glowing hair conceal the flame; Tomorrow from the arms of Tethys
you Return once more: but night has sealed my sun.

By my sun he means Douza. And again:

Sweet children of the night, brothers of fire, Small cohorts, citizens of the fiery pole, Who
wandering through the cloudless fields of air Lead the soft choruses with a light foot When our
tired bodies are stretched softly out And gentle sleep invades our conquered sense, Why now as then
through the enamelled halls From the recesses, still, and the clear windows Of the gold arch
bear off his hallowed face? Farewell, at last; you shall not see your Douza.[7]

In these epigrams, apart from the metaphors heaped up ad nauseam, and each of them harsh and absurd,
a keen critic has noted another fault: namely, that nothing is more
distant from the spirit of a man grieving and mourning for the death
of a friend--and this is what Heinsius intended to depict--than such
a wantonness of epithets.

And so much for diction.

Truth, the primary virtue of ideas. How great a fault there is in untruth. Thence, of false
epigrams.

We take up now the question of ideas, and postulate again that these too must conform both to
the subject and to men's character. Ideas agree with the subject if they are true, if they are appropriate,
and if they so to speak get into the insides of the thing.

They are in accord with men's character if they fit in with natural
aversions or desires.

The primary virtue of ideas is truth. Whatever is false is at variance with external reality, nor
is there any beauty in falsity except in so far as it pretends to
truth.

From this you may gather that truth is the source of beauty, falsity
of ugliness.

The latter, in fact, is out of keeping not only with reality but
also with human nature.

For we possess an innate love of truth and an aversion to falsehood,
so that what delights us when it seems to be true becomes disagreeable
and unpleasant when its falseness is made manifest.

This principle applies to those learned men whom we have mentioned
several times now, and has led to the exclusion from this anthology
of many epigrams in which the point rests on a falsehood: for example,
there is the well-known one by Grotius, though simply as a poem it
is noble enough:

On Joan of Arc, who is called "La pucelle d'Orleans"

French Amazon of never-dying fame, Virgin untouched by men and by men feared, Nor Venus in her
eyes nor young Desire But Mars and Terror and the bloody Weird-- France owes the Salic Law to
her alone, And hers is the true king on the true throne. Let none lament her death who was all
fire And never, or by fire alone, should die.[8]

I have ventured to cite this that the reader may see quite clearly
what is involved in this kind of falsehood and how much it is repugnant
to nature: namely, that something is alleged the contrary of which
might as plausibly be affirmed.

For Grotius might have written no less foolishly:

Justly lament
her death: she who was fire Should not by fire but by cold water die.

Actually, if we wish to get to the bottom of this fault we will find that men are not led to
it by nature but driven to it by lack of skill.

For they would not fly to the refuge of falsehood for any other reason than that they are not
vigorous enough to elicit beauty from the subject itself. Truth, indeed, is limited and defined,
but the realm of lies is unlimited and undefined. Hence the one offers difficulties for invention,
the other is obvious and easy, and for that reason also is to be scorned.

Moreover, falsehood occurs not only in propositions but also in the
delineation of feeling, as, for instance, when feelings are ascribed
to a character other than those which nature and the subject-matter
demand.

You will find this fault in an epigram by Vulteius, which was for this reason rejected:

I viewed one day the marble stone That hides a man in sin well-known. I sighed and said, "What
is the point Of such expense? This tomb might serve To house kings
and the blood of kings That now conceals a villainous corpse."

I burst in tears that copiously Flowed from my eyes down both my cheeks. A stander-by took
me to task In some such words, I think, as these: "Aren't you ashamed, be who you may, To mourn
the burial of this plague?" But I replied, "My tears are shed For the lost tomb, not his lost head."[9]

It
was surely foreign to nature to represent a man weeping copiously
because a villain and scoundrel had been buried in a noble tomb, for
the funeral honors paid to scoundrels excite anger and indignation
rather than pity and tears.

The poet, consequently, adopted an erroneous feeling when he wept where he should have been
angry and wrathful.

On mythological epigrams.

Untruth, then, is a considerable fault, one that is quite widespread and one that embraces
many sub-divisions. Under this category falls especially the use of mythological propositions, the
common vehicle of poets when they have nothing to say. We have rejected many epigrams that are
faulty in this kind, as, for example, Grotius on the Emperor Rudolph, which is too crowded with
myths:

Not Mars alone has favored you, Invincible, At whom as enemy barbarian
standards shake, But the Divine Community with gifts adore you, And
with this in especial from the wife of Zephyr: She to the Dutch Apelles
did perpetual spring Ordain, and meadows living by the painter's hand.

Alcinous' charm is annual, and Adonis' gardens, Nor do the Pharian roses bloom long in that air;
Antique Pomona of Semiramis has boasted, And yet deep winter climbs the summit of her roof. How
shall your honors fail? The garlands that you wear Beseem Imperial triumph, which time may not
touch.[10]

I know there are other things to be censured in this epigram, but I note here only that one fault
which it was quoted to illustrate.

On puns.

To the same general category may be referred most puns, the point
of which usually rises from some untruth.

For example, in Sannazaro's well-known epigram:

Happy has built twin bridges on the Seine: Happy the Seine may call her Pontifex.[11]

If you take Pontifex in the sense of "builder of bridges" the thought is true, but pointless;
consequently, for there to be a point the word Pontifex must be taken
in the sense of "Bishop", and in this sense it will be false that
the Pontifex is happy.

Similarly, in another epigram of some reputation:

They say you're treating Cosma for his deafness, And that you promised, French, a definite
cure; But you can't bring it off for all your deftness: He'll hear ill of himself while tongues
endure.[12]

Take audire as referring to the sense of hearing and the thought is false, since that physical
defect is curable; take it as referring to a good reputation, and the thought will again be false
and inept, for it is false and inept that a doctor will labor in
vain to cure a defect of the ears because he cannot medicine to a
diseased reputation.

All puns are embarrassed by such faults, while on the other hand their charm is quite thin, or
rather nonexistent. Formerly, it is true, in an earlier age there was some praise for that
kind of thing, and so Cicero and Quintilian are said to have derived polished witticisms from the device
of double-meaning; now, however, it is rightly held in great contempt, so much so that men
of taste not only do not hunt for puns but even avoid them. They are, one must admit, more bearable,
or at least less objectionable when they come spontaneously; but anyone who brings out ones he
has thought up or indicates that he himself is pleased with them
is quite properly judged to be inexperienced in society.

Hence it is that epigrams whose elegance is derived from puns are held of no account. For since
verses are only composed by labor and diligence he is justly considered to be a weak and narrow
spirit who wastes time in fitting such trivial wit into verse. One should add, too, that there
is another disadvantage in puns, that they are so imbedded in their own language that they cannot
be translated into another. For these reasons we have admitted few punning epigrams into this
anthology, and those only as examples of a faulty kind.

On hyperbolical ideas.

In the category of false ideas must be reckoned the hyperbolical.

These are not false in a given word, for we dealt with this above, but false in the whole train
of thought. Of this kind is that epigram of Ausonius, the absurdity of which is unbearable:

Riding
in state, as on an elephant, Faustus fell backwards off a silly ant; Abandoned, tortured to
the point of death By the sharp hooves, his soul stayed on his breath And his voice broke:
"Envy," he cried, "begone! Laugh not at my fall! So fell Phaethon."[13]

Ausonius was imitating in this epigram the Greeks, who were quite open to this sort of bad imitation,
as may be seen in their Anthology which is stuffed full of such hyperboles.

A good many fall into the same fault either because their talent is weak or because they write
for the unskilled--a consideration which should move those who have no compunction about reading,
let alone praising, the silly tales of Rabelais which are filled with stupid hyperboles.

On debatable and controvertible ideas.

Furthermore, debatable and double-edged ideas, about which the reader is in doubt whether they
be false or true, fall under the same category of falseness. For this doubtfulness, since it takes
away all pleasure, removes also the beauty. For this reason I have never approved the conclusion
of Martial's epigram:

Equal the crime of Antony and Photinus: This sword and that severed a sacred head-- The one
head laurelled for your triumphs, Rome!

The other eloquent when you would speak. Yet Antony's case was worse than was Photinus': One
for his master moved, one for himself.[14]

The reader is bothered by a sort of quiet annoyance that the poet should so confidently take a
dubious idea for a certain one. He might easily argue against the poet that on the contrary it
seemed to him that a man who commits a crime for his master is more at fault than one who commits
it for himself, and he could support his position with rational arguments. For one who sins
for his own advantage is driven to his deed by such emotions as rage, lust, and fear, and these as
they diminish the power of willing in like measure diminish the magnitude of the offence. But one
who effects a crime at another's behest comes coldly to the deed, a fact that convicts him of
a far greater depravity. One could allege these and similar lines of argument against Martial's
position, and could reverse the sense of his distich so that it read no less irrationally:

Yet Antony's case was better than Photinus': One for his master moved, one for himself.

Hence this whole category of controvertible ideas lacks literary merit
and should be studiously avoided by those who aim at beauty, which
in the last analysis is to be found in truth alone, and in truth of
such a sort that as soon as it is proposed the reader recognises as
true and accepts it.

The second virtue of ideas, that they should agree with the inner nature of the subject; and thence
on ideas foreign and accidental to the subject.

The second virtue of ideas with respect to the subject-matter is that
they should agree with its inner nature: that is, that they should
be elicited out of the very inners of the subject and not far-fetched
or drawn from external accidents which are only the accompaniments
of things.

By this rule we have been delivered from numerous frigid epigrams,
of which I subjoin a few examples:

Foreign and far-fetched is Owen's
on a lyre:

That there is concord in so diverse chords Discordant
mankind some excuse affords.[15]

As if nothing were more pertinent
for making men ashamed of their discords than the concord of strings
on a lyre.

From concomitant accidents, and not from the very heart of the subject itself, is drawn this
epigram of Germanicus Caesar, though the verses are otherwise sufficiently polished:

The Thracian boy at play on the stiff ice Of Hebrus broke the waters
with his weight And the swift current carried him away, Except that
a smooth sherd cut off his head.

The childless mother as she burned it said: "This for the flames
I bore, that for the waves."[16]

Certainly the mother had a deeper
and more native cause of grief than that her son was destroyed partly
by water and partly by fire; she would have grieved no less had he
perished wholly in water or wholly in fire.

The whole reason for grief, then, ought not be sought in such a slight circumstance, which
was an accompaniment of and not the grounds for grief.

Negative descriptions labor under the same fault, namely those in which are enumerated not what
the endowments of the subject are but what they are not.

This is justly censured in one of Barlaeus' epigrams, which is in other respects quite polished:

Of
royal Bourbon blood, by whose aid once Belgium believed that God
inclined to her; For sceptered fathers famed, more famed for war,
And by Astraea's doom of rare renown; Whom War as general, Peace lauds
unarmed, To whom so many lands and seas are slaves; Neither the fleece
drinking barbarian dye I send you, nor Sidonian artifice, Nor Indian
ivory, Dalmatian stone, Nor the choice incense that delights grave
Jove, Nor warring eagles, no, nor cities stormed, Nor plundered canvas
from the conquered sea; Louis, I give you Christ as King and Lord,
Titles not foreign to the ones you bear: For I would send you, greatest
of all kings, Than which I cannot more, I send you God.[17]

Surely
it is a long way around to enumerate what you will not give the King
in order to make clear how slight your gift is.

Besides, the conclusion is harsh in that a book about Christ is called
God and Christ, as if Christ and a book about him were the same thing.

But this is a commonplace absurdity of what one may call the dedicatory genre, in which writers
almost always speak of their book as if there were no difference
between the book itself and its subject: thus, if they write about
Caesar or Cato, "Caesar and Cato," they say, "prostrate themselves
before you;"

If about Cicero, "Look," they say, "Cicero addresses you and takes you as patron:" all of which
are correctly to be reckoned in the category of false statements.

In what way ideas are to be made agreeable to men's character. On
avoiding offense; and, first, on obscenity.

The harmony of idea and subject is a matter fairly easy to understand, but the attuning of idea
and men's character is more difficult to grasp and requires more painstaking treatment. For
in this inquiry the whole scope of human nature must be thoroughly examined, and our silent inclinations
and aversions must be laid open so that we will know how to avoid the one and comply with the
other.

For it cannot be that anything should please that offends nature, or anything displease that complies
with natural inclinations. We will touch briefly on some of these points, but only on those that suffice
to our purposes.

In the first place, there is in the nature of man an aversion to the shameful and the obscene,
and this the more powerful in the best and well-educated natures. All obscene ideas offend
this sense of shame to such an extent that they are regarded as alien to nature, ugly, and uncivilised.
Nor does it matter that some corrupt souls laugh at them. For civilization, as we have said, does
not consist in agreement with a corrupt, but with a virtuous and moral, nature. Consequently,
absolutely nothing of this kind is to be found in the conversation of respectable men, and
is only resorted to by those who lack any feeling for Christianity
as well as for genuine society and civilization.

Therefore we have excluded all shameful and licentious epigrams not only in deference to morals
and religion but also to good taste and civilization. Of this Catullus and Martial in Antiquity
witness that they had no perception at all, for they filled up their works with a good deal of ill-bred
filth, and on that account must be regarded not only as dissolute but also as vulgar, uncultivated,
and, to use Catullus' own phrase, "goat-milkers and ditch-diggers."[18]

On
the cheap subject-matter of some epigrams.

But it is not only faulty and unpolished to offer the reader a shameful and obscene picture but
also in general to depict whatever is cheap, ugly, and unwelcome. Hence those epigrams cannot
be regarded as beautiful and polished whose subject is a toothless
hag, a poetaster with a threadbare cloak, a rank old goat, a filthy
nose, or a glutton vomiting on the table--all of which are a fertile
ground of jokes for actors--since ugliness of that sort can never
be redeemed by the point.

For this reason we have admitted none of such kind in the epigrams of Martial which we have subjoined
to this treatise, and a good many epigrams that we have run across we have put aside, such
as Buchanan's in which he depicts the unattractive and unpleasant
picture of a lank old man:

While Naevolus yells he can outbellow
Stentor, And roars and roars, "All men are animals," He has slipped
by almost his ninetieth year And bent senility shakes his weak step.

Now three hairs only cling to his smooth head, And he sees what a night-owl sees at dawn.
The snot is dripping from his frosty nose, And stringed saliva falls on his wet breast-- Not an
odd tooth in his defenceless gums, Not an old ape so engraved with wrinkles. Naevolus, for
shame leave this frivolity And no more cry, "All men," since you are none.[19]

Again, the baseness of the subject and the hardly pleasant or civilized image of a hanging
man is a fault in this epigram of Sannazaro's, although it has an element of humor:

In your desire to learn your fortune, sir, You questioned every tripod,
every rune; "You'll stand out above gods and men," at last Answered
the god in truth-revealing voice.

What arrogance you drew from this! You were Immediately lord of the universe. Now you ascend
the cross. God was no cheat: The whole world lies spread out beneath your feet.[20]

This is fairly respectable and merely low. But the cynical license of Martial and Catullus, by
which they speak of many things that are not simply morally foul
but such as decent society demands be removed from sight and hearing,
must be regarded as altogether shameless and vulgar.

For this reason men of taste never mention favorably Catullus' Annales Volusi cacata charta, or Martial's

et
desiderio coacta ventris gutta pallia non fefellit una[21]

And there are many others a good deal more despicable which cannot be adduced even as examples
of a fault.
 MacRae grinned to himself and went down to the grimy wharf where
deep-sea halibut schooners rubbed against the dock, their stubby top-hamper swaying under the
office windows as they rocked to the swell of passing harbor craft.

He talked with Hurley,--the same gentleman whom he had once approached with no success in the
matter of selling salmon. The situation was reversed now. The Northwest was eager to buy. They
would pay him, sub rosa, two cents a pound over the market price for fresh salmon if he would
supply them with the largest possible quantity from the beginning of the blueback run.

As with Robbin-Steele, MacRae refused to commit himself. More clearly he perceived that the
scramble was beginning. The packers and the cold-storage companies had lost control. They must
have fish to function, to make a profit. They would cut one another's throats for salmon. So
much the better, MacRae cynically reflected. He told Hurley, at last, as he had told Robbin-Steele,
to wait till the salmon began to run.

He left the Northwest offices with the firm conviction that it was not going to be a question
of markets, but a question of getting the salmon. And he rather fancied he could do that.

Last of all on the list of these men who approached him in this fashion came Stubby Abbott.
Stubby did not ask him to call. He came to the Granada in search of Jack and haled him, nothing
loth, out to the stone house in the West End. It happened that Betty Gower, Etta Robbin-Steele,
and two gilded youths, whom MacRae did not know, were there. They had been walking in the Park.
Nelly and her mother were serving tea.

It happened, too, that as they chatted over the teacups, a blue-bodied limousine drew up under
the Abbott pergola and deposited Mrs. Horace A. Gower for a brief conversation with Mrs. Abbott.
It was MacRae's first really close contact with the slender, wonderfully preserved lady whose
life had touched his father's so closely in the misty long ago. He regarded her with a reflective
interest. She must have been very beautiful then, he thought. She was almost beautiful still.
Certainly she was a very distinguished person, with her costly clothing, her rich furs, her
white hair, and that faded rose-leaf skin. The petulant, querulous droop of her mouth escaped
MacRae. He was not a physiognomist. But the distance of her manner did not escape him. She
acknowledged the introduction and thereafter politely overlooked MacRae. He meant nothing at
all to Mrs. Horace A. Gower, he saw very clearly. Merely a young man among other young men;
a young man of no particular interest. Thirty years is a long time, MacRae reflected. But his
father had not forgotten. He wondered if she had; if those far-off hot-blooded days had grown
dim and unreal to her?

He turned his head once and caught Betty as intent upon him as he was upon her mother, under
cover of the general conversation. He gathered that there was a shade of reproach, of resentment,
in her eyes. But he could not be sure. Certainly there was nothing like that in her manner.
But the manner of these people, he understood very well, was pretty much a mask. Whatever went
on in their secret bosoms, they smiled and joked and were unfailingly courteous.

He made another discovery within a few minutes. Stubby maneuvered himself close to Etta Robbin-Steele.
Stubby was not quite so adept at repression as most of his class. He was a little more naïve,
more prone to act upon his natural, instinctive impulses. MacRae was aware of that. He saw
now a swift by-play that escaped the rest. Nothing of any consequence,--a look, the motion
of a hand, a fleeting something on the girl's face and Stubby's. Jack glanced at Nelly Abbott
sitting beside him, her small blonde head pertly inclined. Nelly saw it too. She smiled knowingly.

"Has the brunette siren hooked Stubby?" MacRae inquired in a discreet undertone.

"I think so. I'm not sure. Etta's such an outrageous flirt," Nelly said. "I hope not, anyway.
I'm afraid I can't quite appreciate Etta as a prospective sister-in-law."

"No?"

"She's catty--and vain as a peacock. Stubby ought to marry a nice sensible girl who'd mother
him," Nelly observed with astonishing conviction; "like Betty, for instance."

"Oh, you seem to have very definite ideas on that subject," MacRae smiled. He did not commit
himself further. But he resented the suggestion. There was also an amusing phase of Nelly's
declaration which did not escape him,--the pot calling the kettle black. Etta Robbin-Steele
did flirt. She had dancing black eyes that flung a challenge to men. But Nelly herself was
no shrinking violet, for all her baby face. She was like an elf. Her violet eyes were capable
of infinite shades of expression. She, herself, had a way of appropriating men who pleased
her, to the resentful dismay of other young women. It pleased her to do that with Jack MacRae
whenever he was available. And until Betty had preëmpted a place in his heart without even
trying, Jack MacRae had been quite willing to let his fancy linger romantically on Nelly Abbott.

As it was,--he looked across the room at Betty chatting with young Lane. What a damned fool
he was,--he, MacRae! All his wires were crossed. If some inescapable human need urged him to
love, how much better to love this piquant bit of femininity beside him? But he couldn't do
it. It wasn't possible. All the old rebellion stirred in him. The locked chambers of his mind
loosed pictures of Squitty, memories of things which had happened there, as he let his eyes
drift from Betty, whom he loved, to her mother, whom his father had loved and lost. She had
made his father suffer through love. Her daughter was making Donald MacRae's son suffer likewise.
Again, through some fantastic quirk of his imagination, the stodgy figure of Horace Gower loomed
in the background, shadowy and sinister. There were moments, like the present, when he felt
hatred of the man concretely, as he could feel thirst or hunger.

"A penny for your thoughts," Nelly bantered.

"They'd be dear at half the price," MacRae said, forcing a smile.

He was glad when those people went their way. Nelly put on a coat and went with them. Stubby
drew Jack up to his den.

"I have bought up the controlling interest in the Terminal Fish Company since I saw you last,"
Stubby began abruptly. "I'm going to put up a cold-storage plant and do what my father started
to do early in the war--give people cheaper fish for food."

"Can you make it stick," MacRae asked curiously, "with the other wholesalers against you? Their
system seems to be to get all the traffic will bear, to boost the price to the consumer by
any means they can use. And there is the Packers' Association. They are not exactly--well,
favorable to cheap retailing of fish. Everybody seems to think the proper caper is to tack
on a cent or two a pound wherever he can."

"I know I can," Stubby declared. "The pater would have succeeded only he trusted too much to
men who didn't see it his way. Look at Cunningham--" Stubby mentioned a fish merchant who had
made a resounding splash in matters piscatorial for a year or two, and then faded, along with
his great cheap-fish markets, into oblivion--"he made it go like a house afire until he saw
a chance to make a quick and easy clean-up by sticking people. It can be done, all right, if
a man will be satisfied with a small profit on a big turnover. I know it."

MacRae made no comment on that. Stubby was full of his plan, eager to talk about its possibilities.

"I wanted to do it last year," he said, "but I couldn't. I had to play the old game--make a
bunch of money and make it quick. Between you and Gower's pig-headedness, and the rest of the
cannery crowd letting me go till it was too late to stop me, and a climbing market, I made
more money in one season than I thought was possible. I'm going to use that money to make more
money and to squash some of these damned fish pirates. I tell you it's jolly awful. We had
baked cod for lunch to-day. That fish cost twenty cents a pound. Think of it! When the fisherman
sells it for six cents within fifty miles of us. No wonder everybody is howling. I don't know
anything about other lines of food supply, but I can sure put my finger on a bunch of fish
profiteers. And I feel like putting my foot on them. Anyway, I've got the Terminal for a starter;
also I have a twenty-five-year lease on the water frontage there. I have the capital to go
ahead and build a cold-storage plant. The wholesale crowd can't possibly bother me. And the
canneries are going to have their hands full this season without mixing into a scrap over local
prices of fresh fish. You've heard about the new regulations?"

MacRae nodded assent.

"There's going to be a free-for-all," Stubby chuckled. "There'll be a lot of independent purse
seiners. If the canneries don't pay good prices these independent fishermen, with their fast,
powerful rigs, will seine the salmon under the packers' noses and run their catch down to the
Puget Sound plants. This is no time for the British Columbia packers to get uppish. Good-by,
four hundred per cent."

"They'll wiggle through legislation to prevent export of raw salmon," MacRae suggested; "same
as they have on the sockeye."

"No chance. They've tried, and it can't be done," Stubby grinned. "There aren't going to be
any special privileges for British Columbia salmon packers any more. I know, because I'm on
the inside. The fishermen have made a noise that disturbs the politicians, I guess. Another
thing, there's a slack in the demand for all but the best grades of salmon. But the number
one grades, sockeye and blueback and coho, are short. So that a cannery man with an efficient
plant can pay big for those fish. If you can hold that Squitty fleet of trollers like you did
last year, you'll make some money."

"Do you want those salmon?" MacRae asked.

"Sure I want them. I want them as soon as they begin to run big enough to be legally taken
for sale," Stubby declared. "I'm going to rush that cold-storage construction. By the time
you begin collecting bluebacks I'll have a place for them, all you can buy. I'll have storage
for three hundred thousand fish. I'm going to buy everything and start half a dozen retail
stores at the same time. Just imagine the situation in this burg of a hundred and fifty thousand
people with waters that swarm with fish right at our doors--salmon selling for thirty cents
a pound, hardly ever below twenty, other fish in about the same proportion. It's a damned scandal,
and I don't much blame a man who works for four dollars a day thinking he might as well turn
Bolshevik. I know that I can pay twelve cents for salmon and make a good profit selling for
sixteen. Can you make money supplying me with bluebacks at twelve cents a pound?"

"Yes, more money than I made last year," MacRae replied--"unless Folly Bay boosts prices to
the sky in an effort to drive me out of business."

"I don't think there's much danger of that," Stubby said. "I doubt if Folly Bay opens this
season. It's reported that Gower is broke."

"Eh?" MacRae looked his doubt.

"That's what they say," Stubby went on. "It's common talk. He sold his place in town a short
while ago. He has the cannery on the market. And there are no takers. Folly Bay used to be
a little gold mine. But Gower rode the fishermen too hard. And you balled things up last season.
He lost his grip. I suppose he was involved other ways, too. Lots of these old-timers are,
you know. Anyway, he seems to be trying to get out from under. But nobody wants to take over
a plant that has a black eye among the men who catch the fish, in a territory where you appear
to have a pretty strong hold."

"At the same time, if I can pay so much for salmon, haul them up the coast and make a profit
on that, and if you can pay this advanced price and pack them at a still bigger profit, why
in blazes can't a plant right there on the grounds pay top price and still make money?" MacRae
asked impatiently.

"Could," Stubby declared. "Certainly. But most men in the salmon canning business aren't like
you and me, Jack. They are used to big returns on a three months' season. They simply can't
stand the idea of paying out big gobs of money to a sulky, un-shaven bohunk whose whole equipment
isn't worth a thousand dollars. They think any man in sea boots ought to be damn well satisfied
if he makes a living. They say high wages, or returns, spoil fishermen. On top of these new
regulations nobody hankers to buy a plant where they might have to indulge in a price war with
a couple of crazy young fools like you and me--that's what they call us, you know. That is
why no experienced cannery man will touch Folly Bay the way things stand now. It's a fairly
good plant, too. I don't know how Gower has managed to get in a hole. I don't believe one poor
season could do that to him. But he sure wants to get rid of Folly Bay. It is a forty-thousand-dollar
plant, including the gas boats. He has been nibbling at an offer of twenty-five thousand. I
know, because I made it myself."

"What'll you do with it if you get it?" MacRae asked curiously. "It's no good unless you get
the fish. You'd have to put me out of business."

"Well, I wasn't exactly figuring on that," Stubby grinned. "In the first place, the machinery
and equipment is worth that much in the open market. And if I get it, we'll either make a deal
for collecting the fish, or you can take a half-interest in the plant at the ground-floor price.
Either way, we can make it a profitable investment for both of us."

"You really think Gower is in a bad way?" Jack asked reflectively.

"I know it," Stubby replied emphatically. "Oh, I don't mean to say that abject poverty is staring
him in the face, or anything like that. But it looks to me as if he had lost a barrel of money
somehow and was anxious to get Folly Bay off his hands before it sets him further in the hole.
You could make Folly Bay pay big dividends. So could I. But so long as you cover his ground
with carriers, every day he operates is a dead loss. I haven't much sympathy for him. He has
made a fortune out of that place and those fishermen and spent it making a big splurge in town.
Anyway, his wife has all kinds of kale, so we should worry about old Horace A."

MacRae lit a cigarette and listened to the flow of Stubby's talk, with part of his mind mulling
over this information about Horace Gower. He wondered if that was why Robbin-Steele was so
keen on getting a contract for those Squitty bluebacks, why Hurley of the Northwest wanted
to make a deal for salmon; if they reckoned that Gower had ceased to be a factor and that Jack
MacRae held the Squitty Island business in the hollow of his hand. MacRae smiled to himself.
If that were true it was an advantage he meant to hold for his own good and the good of all
those hard-driven men who labored at the fishing. In a time that was economically awry MacRae's
sympathy turned more to those whose struggle was to make a living, or a little more if they
could, than to men who already had more than they needed, men who had no use for more money
except to pile it up, to keep piling it up. MacRae was neither an idealist nor a philanthropic
dreamer. But he knew the under dog of the great industrial scramble. In his own business he
would go out of his way to add another hundred dollars a year to a fisherman's earnings. He
did not know quite clearly why he felt like that. It was more or less instinctive. He expected
to make money out of his business, he was eager to make money, but he saw very clearly that
it was only in and through the tireless labor of the fishermen that he could reap a profit.
And he was young enough to be generous in his impulses. He was not afraid, like the older men,
that if those who worked with their hands got a little more than sufficient to live on from
season to season they would grow fat and lazy and arrogant, and refuse to produce.

Money was a necessity. Without it, without at least a reasonable amount of money, a man could
not secure any of the things essential to well-being of either body or mind. The moneyless
man was a slave so long as he was moneyless. MacRae smiled at those who spoke slightingly of
the power of money. He knew they were mistaken. Money was king. No amount of it, cash in hand,
would purchase happiness, perhaps, but lack of it made a man fall an easy victim to dire misfortunes.
Without money a man was less than the dirt beneath the feet of such as Robbin-Steele and Hurley
and Gower, because their criterion of another man's worth was his ability to get money, to
beat the game they all played.

MacRae put himself and Stubby Abbott in a different category. They wanted to get on. They were
determined to get on. But their programme of getting on, MacRae felt, was a better one for
themselves and for other men than the mere instinct to grab everything in sight. MacRae was
not exactly a student of economics or sociology, but he had an idea that the world, and particularly
his group-world, was suffering from the grab-instinct functioning without control. He had a
theory that society would have to modify that grab-instinct by legislation and custom before
the world was rid of a lot of its present ills. And both his reason and his instinct was to
modify it himself, in his dealings with his fellows, more particularly when those he dealt
with were simple, uneducated men who worked as hard and complained as little as salmon fishermen.

He talked with Stubby in the den until late in the afternoon, and then walked downtown. When
he reached the Granada he loafed uneasily in the billiard room until dinner. His mind persistently
turned from material considerations of boats and gear and the season's prospects to dwell upon
Betty Gower. This wayward questing of his mind irritated him. But he could not help it. Whenever
he met her, even if it were only a brief, casual contact, for hours afterward he could not
drive her out of his mind. And he was making a conscious effort to do that. It was a matter
of sheer self-defense. Only when he shut Betty resolutely out of the chambers of his brain
could he be free of that hungry longing for her. While he suffered from that vain longing there
was neither peace nor content in his life; he could get no satisfaction out of working or planning
or anything that he undertook.

That would wear off, he assured himself. But he did not always have complete confidence in
this assurance. He was aware of a tenacity of impressions and emotions and ideas, once they
took hold of him. Old Donald MacRae had been afflicted with just such characteristics, he remembered.
It must be in the blood, that stubborn constancy to either an affection or a purpose. And in
him these two things were at war, pulling him powerfully in opposite directions, making him
unhappy.

Sitting deep in a leather chair, watching the white and red balls roll and click on the green
cloth, MacRae recalled one of the maxims of Hafiz:

                "'Two things greater than all things are
                And one is Love and the other is War.'"

MacRae doubted this. He had had experience of both. At the moment he could see nothing in either
but vast accumulations of futile anguish both of the body and the soul.

CHAPTER XVIII

A Renewal of Hostilities

The pussy willows had put out their fuzzy catkins and shed them for delicate foliage when MacRae
came back to Squitty Cove. The alder, the maple and the wild cherry, all the spring-budding
trees and shrubs, were making thicket and foreshore dainty green and full of pleasant smells.
Jack wakened the first morning at daybreak to the muted orchestration of mating birds, the
song of a thousand sweet-voiced, unseen warblers. The days were growing warm, full of sunshine.
Distant mountain ranges stood white-capped and purple against sapphire skies. The air was full
of the ancient magic of spring.

Yet MacRae himself, in spite of these pleasant sights and sounds and smells, in spite of his
books and his own rooftree, found the Cove haunted by the twin ghosts he dreaded most, discontent
and loneliness. He was more isolated than he had ever been in his life. There was no one in
the Cove save an old, unkempt Swede, Doug Sproul, who slept eighteen hours a day in his cabin
while he waited for the salmon to run again, a withered Portuguese who sat in the sun and muttered
while he mended gear. They were old men, human driftwood, beached in their declining years,
crabbed and sour, looking always backward with unconscious regret.

Vin Ferrara was away with the Bluebird, still plying his fish venture. Dolly and Norman Gower
were married, and Dolly was back on the Knob in the middle of Squitty Island, keeping house
for her husband and Uncle Peter and Long Tom Spence while they burrowed in the earth to uncover
a copper-bearing lead that promised a modest fortune for all three. Peter Ferrara's house at
the Cove stood empty and deserted in the spring sun.

People had to shift, to grasp opportunities as they were presented, MacRae knew. They could
not take root and stand still in one spot like the great Douglas firs. But he missed the familiar
voices, the sight of friendly faces. He had nothing but his own thoughts to keep him company.
A man of twenty-five, a young and lusty animal of abounding vitality, needs more than his own
reflections to fill his days. Denied the outlet of purposeful work in which to release pent-up
energy, MacRae brooded over shadows, suffered periods of unaccountable depression. Nature had
not designed him for either a hermit or a celibate. Something in him cried out for affection,
for companionship, for a woman's tenderness bestowed unequivocally. The mating instinct was
driving him, as it drove the birds. But its urge was not the general, unspecified longing which
turns a man's eyes upon any desirable woman. Very clearly, imperiously, this dominant instinct
in MacRae had centered upon Betty Gower.

He was at war with his instincts. His mind stipulated that he could not have her without a
revolutionary overturning of his convictions, inhibitions, soundly made and passionately cherished
plans of reprisal for old injustices. That peculiar tenacity of idea and purpose which was
inherent with him made him resent, refuse soberly to consider any deviation from the purpose
which had taken form with such bitter intensity when he kindled to his father's account of
those drab years which Horace Gower had laid upon him.

Jack MacRae was no angel. Under his outward seeming his impulses were primitive, like the impulses
of all strong men. He nursed a vision of beating Gower at Gower's own game. He hugged to himself
the ultimate satisfaction of that. Even when he was dreaming of Betty, he was mentally setting
her aside until he had beaten her father to his knees under the only sort of blows he could
deal. Until he had made Gower know grief and disappointment and helplessness, and driven him
off the south end of Squitty landless and powerless, he would go on as he had elected. When
he got this far Jack would sometimes say to himself in a spirit of defiant recklessness that
there were plenty of other women for whom ultimately he could care as much. But he knew also
that he would not say that, nor even think it, whenever Betty Gower was within reach of his
hand or sound of his voice.

He walked sometimes over to Point Old and stared at the cottage, snowy white against the tender
green, its lawn growing rank with uncut grass, its chimney dead. There were times when he wished
he could see smoke lifting from that chimney and know that he could find Betty somewhere along
the beach. But these were only times when his spirits were very low.

Also he occasionally wondered if it were true, as Stubby Abbott declared, that Gower had fallen
into a financial hole. MacRae doubted that. Men like Gower always got out of a hole. They were
fierce and remorseless pursuers of the main chance. When they were cast down they climbed up
straightway over the backs of lesser men. He thought of Robbin-Steele. A man like that would
die with the harness of the money-game on his back, reaching for more. Gower was of the same
type, skillful in all the tricks of the game, ruthless, greedy for power and schooled to grasp
it in a bewildering variety of ways.

No, he rather doubted that Gower was broke, or even in any danger of going broke. He hoped
this might be true, in spite of his doubts, for it meant that Gower would be compelled to sacrifice
this six hundred acres of MacRae land. The sooner the better. It was a pain to MacRae to see
it going wild. The soil Donald MacRae had cleared and turned to meadow, to small fields of
grain, was growing up to ferns and scrub. It had been a source of pride to old Donald. He had
visualized for his son more than once great fields covered with growing crops, a rich and fruitful
area, with a big stone house looking out over the cliffs where ultimate generations of MacRaes
should live. If luck had not gone against old Donald he would have made this dream come true.
But life and Gower had beaten him.

Jack MacRae knew this. It maddened him to think that this foundation of a dream had become
the plaything of his father's enemy, a neglected background for a summer cottage which he only
used now and then.

There might, however, be something in the statements Stubby had made. MacRae recalled that
Gower had not replaced the Arrow. The underwriters had raised and repaired the mahogany cruiser,
and she had passed into other hands. When Betty and her father came to Cradle Bay they came
on a cannery tender or a hired launch. MacRae hoped it might be true that Gower was slipping,
that he had helped to start him on this decline.

Presently the loneliness of the Cove was broken by the return of Vincent Ferrara. They skidded
the Bluebird out on the beach at the Cove's head and overhauled her inside and out, hull and
machinery. That brought them well into April. The new carrier was complete from truck to keelson.
She had been awaiting only MacRae's pleasure for her maiden sea-dip. So now, with the Bluebird
sleeked with new paint, he went down for the launching.

There was a little ceremony over that.

"It's bad luck, the very worst sort of luck, to launch a boat without christening her in the
approved manner," Nelly Abbott declared. "I insist on being sponsor. Do let me, Jack."

So the new sixty-footer had a bottle of wine from the Abbott cellar broken over her brass-bound
stemhead as her bows sliced into the salt water, and Nelly's clear treble chanted:

"I christen thee Agua Blanco."

Vin Ferrara's dark eyes gleamed, for agua blanco means "white water" in the Spanish tongue.

The Terminal Fish Company's new coolers were yawning for fish when the first blueback run of
commercial size showed off Gray Rock and the Ballenas. All the Squitty boats went out as soon
as the salmon came. MacRae skippered the new and shining Blanco, brave in white paint and polished
brass on her virgin trip. He followed the main fleet, while the Bluebird scuttled about to
pick up stray trollers' catches and to tend the rowboat men. She would dump a day's gathering
on the Blanco's deck, and the two crews would dress salmon till their hands were sore. But
it saved both time and fuel to have that great carrying capacity, and the freezing plant which
automatically chilled the fish. MacRae could stay on the grounds till he was fully loaded.
He could slash through to Vancouver at nine knots instead of seven. A sea that would toss the
old wrecked Blackbird like a dory and keep her low decks continually awash let the Blanco pass
with only a moderate pitch and roll.

MacRae worked hard. He found ease in work. When the last salmon was dressed and stowed below,
many times under the glow of electric bulbs strung along the cargo boom, he would fall into
his bunk and sleep dreamlessly. Decks streaming with blood and offal, plastered with slime
and clinging scales--until such time as they were washed down--ceased to annoy him. No man
can make omelettes without breaking eggs. Only the fortunate few can make money without soiling
their hands. There is no room in the primary stages of taking salmon for those who shrink from
sweat and strain, from elemental stress. The white-collared and the lily-fingered cannot function
there. The pink meat my lady toys with on Limoges china comes to her table by ways that would
appal her. Only the men who toil aboard the fishing boats, with line and gear and gutting knife
know in what travail this harvest of the sea is reaped.

MacRae played fair, according to his conception of fair play. He based his payments on a decent
profit, without which he could not carry on. Running heavier cargoes at less cost he raised
the price to the fishermen as succeeding runs of blueback salmon were made up of larger, heavier
fish. Other buyers came, lingered awhile, cursed him and went away. They could not run to Vancouver
with small quantities of salmon and meet his price. But MacRae in the Blanco could take six,
eight, ten thousand salmon profitably on a margin which the other buyers said was folly.

The trolling fleet swelled in numbers. The fish were there. The old-timers had prophesied a
big blueback year, and for once their prophecy was by way of being fulfilled. The fish schooled
in great shoals off Nanaimo, around Gray Rock, the Ballenas, passed on to Sangster and Squitty.
And the fleet followed a hundred strong, each day increasing,--Indians, Greeks, Japanese, white
men, raking the salmon grounds with glittering spoon hooks, gathering in the fish.

In early June MacRae was delivering eighteen thousand salmon a week to the Terminal Fish Company.
He was paying forty cents a fish, more than any troller in the Gulf of Georgia had ever got
for June bluebacks, more than any buyer had ever paid before the opening of the canneries heightened
the demand. He was clearing nearly a thousand dollars a week for himself, and he was putting
unheard-of sums in the pockets of the fishermen. MacRae believed these men understood how this
was possible, that they had a feeling of coöperating with him for their common good. They had
sold their catches on a take-it-or-leave-it basis for years. He had put a club in their hands
as well as money in their pockets. They would stand with him against less scrupulous, more
remorseless exploiters of their labor. They would see that he got fish. They told him that.

"If somebody else offered sixty cents you'd sell to him, wouldn't you?" MacRae asked a dozen
of them sitting on the Blanco's deck one afternoon. They had been talking about canneries and
competition.

"Not if he was boosting the price up just to make you quit, and then cut it in two when he
had everything to himself," one man said. "That's been done too often."

"Remember that when the canneries open, then," MacRae said dryly. "There is not going to be
much, of a price for humps and dog salmon this fall. But there is going to be a scramble for
the good canning fish. I can pay as much as salmon are worth, but I can't go any further. If
I should have to pull my boats off in mid-season you can guess what they'll pay around Squitty."

MacRae was not crying "wolf." There were signs and tokens of uneasiness and irritation among
those who still believed it was their right and privilege to hold the salmon industry in the
hollows of their grasping hands. Stubby Abbott was a packer. He had the ears of the other packers.
They were already complaining to Stubby, grouching about MacRae, unable to understand that
Stubby listened to them with his tongue in his cheek, that one of their own class should have
a new vision of industrial processes, a vision that was not like their own.

"They're cultivating quite a grievance about the price you're paying," Stubby told Jack in
confidence. "They say you are a damned fool. You could get those fish for thirty cents and
you are paying forty. The fishermen will want the earth when the canneries open. They hint
around that something will drop with a loud bang one of these days. I think it's just hot air.
They can't hurt either of us. I'll get a fair pack at Crow Harbor, and I'll have this plant
loaded. I've got enough money to carry on. It makes me snicker to myself to imagine how they'll
squirm and squeal next winter when I put frozen salmon on the market ten cents a pound below
what they figure on getting. Oh, yes, our friends in the fish business are going to have a
lot of grievances. But just now they are chiefly grouching at you."

MacRae seldom set foot ashore those crowded days. But he passed within sight of Squitty Cove
and Poor Man's Rock once at least in each forty-eight hours. For weeks he had seen smoke drifting
blue from the cottage chimney in Cradle Bay. He saw now and then the flutter of something white
or blue on the lawn that he knew must be Betty. Part of the time a small power boat swung to
the mooring in the bay where the shining Arrow nosed to wind and tide in other days. He heard
current talk among the fishermen concerning the Gowers. Gower himself was spending his time
between the cottage and Folly Bay.

The cannery opened five days in advance of the sockeye season on the Fraser. When the Gower
collecting boats made their first round MacRae knew that he had a fight on his hands. Gower,
it seemed to him, had bared his teeth at last.

The way of the blueback salmon might have furnished a theme for Solomon. In all the years during
which these fish had run in the Gulf of Georgia neither fishermen, canners, nor the government
ichthyologists were greatly wiser concerning their nature or habits or life history. Grounds
where they swarmed one season might prove barren the next. Where they came from, out of what
depths of the far Pacific those silvery hordes marshaled themselves, no man knew. Nor, when
they vanished in late August, could any man say whither they went. They did not ascend the
streams. No blueback was ever taken with red spawn in his belly. They were a mystery which
no man had unraveled, no matter that he took them by thousands in order that he himself might
subsist upon their flesh. One thing the trollers did know,--where the small feed swarmed, in
shoal water or deep, those myriads of tiny fish, herring and nameless smaller ones, there the
blueback would appear, and when he did so appear he could be taken by a spoon hook.

Away beyond the Sisters--three gaunt gray rocks rising out of the sea miles offshore in a fairway
down which passed all the Alaska-bound steamers, with a lone lighthouse on the middle rock--away
north of Folly Bay there opened wide trolling grounds about certain islands which lay off the
Vancouver Island shore,--Hornby, Lambert Channel, Yellow Rock, Cape Lazo. In other seasons
the blueback runs lingered about Squitty for a while and then passed on to those kelp-grown
and reef-strewed grounds. This season these salmon appeared first far south of Squitty. The
trolling scouts, the restless wanderers of the fleet, who could not abide sitting still and
waiting in patience for the fish to come, first picked them up by the Gulf Islands, very near
that great highway to the open sea known as the Strait of San Juan. The blueback pushed on
the Gray Rock to the Ballenas, as if the blackfish and seal and shark that hung always about
the schools to prey were herding them to some given point. Very shortly after they could be
taken in the shadow of the Ballenas light the schools swarmed about the Cove end of Squitty
Island, between the Elephant on Sangster and Poor Man's Rock. For days on end the sea was alive
with them. In the gray of dawn and the reddened dusk they played upon the surface of the sea
as far as the eye reached. And always at such times they struck savagely at a glittering spoon
hook. Beyond Squitty they vanished. Fifty and sixty salmon daily to a boat off the Squitty
headlands dwindled to fifteen and twenty at the Folly Bay end. Those restless trollers who
crossed the Gulf to Hornby and Yellow Rock Light got little for their pains. Between Folly
Bay and the swirling tide races off the desolate head of Cape Mudge the blueback disappeared.
But at Squitty the runs held constant. There were off days, but the fish were always there.
The trollers hung at the south end, sheltering at night in the Cove, huddled rubstrake to rubstrake
and bow to stern, so many were they in that little space, on days when the southeaster made
the cliffs shudder under the shock of breaking seas. If fishing slackened for a day or two
they did not scatter as in other days. There would be another run hard on the heels of the
last. And there was.

MacRae ran the Blanco into Squitty Cove one afternoon and made fast alongside the Bluebird
which lay to fore and aft moorings in the narrow gut of the Cove. The Gulf outside was speckled
with trollers, but there were many at anchor, resting, or cooking food.

One of the mustard pots was there, a squat fifty-foot carrier painted a gaudy yellow--the Folly
Bay house color--flying a yellow flag with a black C in the center. She was loading fish from
two trollers, one lying on each side. One or two more were waiting, edging up.

"He came in yesterday afternoon after you left," Vin Ferrara told Jack. "And he offered forty-five
cents. Some of them took it. To-day he's paying fifty and hinting more if he has to."

MacRae laughed.

"We'll match Gower's price till he boosts us out of the bidding," he said. "And he won't make
much on his pack if he does that."

"Say, Folly Bay," Jack called across to the mustard-pot carrier, "what are you paying for bluebacks?"

The skipper took his eye off the tallyman counting in fish.

"Fifty cents," he answered in a voice that echoed up and down the Cove.

"That must sound good to the fishermen," MacRae called back pleasantly. "Folly Bay's getting
generous in its declining years."

It was the off period between tides. There were forty boats at rest in the Cove and more coming
in. The ripple of laughter that ran over the fleet was plainly audible. They could appreciate
that. MacRae sat down on the Blanco's after cabin and lit a cigarette.

"Looks like they mean to get the fish," Vin hazarded. "Can you tilt that and make anything?"

"Let them do the tilting," MacRae answered. "If the fish run heavy I can make a little, even
if prices go higher. If he boosts them to seventy-five, I'd have to quit. At that price only
the men who catch the fish will make anything. I really don't know how much we will be able
to pay when Crow Harbor opens up."

"We'll have some fun anyway." Vin's black eyes sparkled.

It took MacRae three days to get a load. Human nature functions pretty much the same among
all men. The trollers distrusted Folly Bay. They said to one another that if Gower could kill
off competition he would cut the price to the bone. He had done that before. But when a fisherman
rises wearily from his bunk at three in the morning and spends the bulk of the next eighteen
hours hauling four one hundred and fifty foot lines, each weighted with from six to fifteen
pounds of lead, he feels that he is entitled to every cent he can secure for his day's labor.

The Gower boats got fish. The mustard pot came back next day, paying fifty-five cents. A good
many trollers sold him their fish before they learned that MacRae was paying the same. And
the mustard pot evidently had his orders, for he tilted the price to sixty, which forced MacRae
to do the same.

When the Blanco unloaded her cargo of eight-thousand-odd salmon into the Terminal and MacRae
checked his receipts and expenditures for that trip, he discovered that he had neither a profit
nor a loss. 

All the great side of the Lord Warden next the sea had to be emptied,
the break of the waves was so prodigious, and the noise so utterly
confounding.

The sea came in like a great sky of immense clouds, for ever breaking suddenly into furious
rain; all kinds of wreck were washed in; among other things, a very
pretty brass-bound chest being thrown about like a feather. . . .

The unhappy Ostend packet, unable to get in or go back, beat about the Channel all Tuesday night,
and until noon yesterday; when I saw her come in, with five men at the wheel, a picture of misery
inconceivable. . . . The effect of the readings at Hastings and Dover really seems to have outdone
the best usual impression; and at Dover they wouldn't go, but sat applauding like mad. The
most delicate audience I have seen in any provincial place, is Canterbury" ("an intelligent and
delightful response in them," he wrote to his daughter, "like the
touch of a beautiful instrument"); "but the audience with the greatest
sense of humour certainly is Dover.

The people in the stalls set the example of laughing, in the most curiously unreserved way; and
they laughed with such really cordial enjoyment, when Squeers read the boys' letters, that the contagion
extended to me. For, one couldn't hear them without laughing too. . . . So, I am thankful to say,
all goes well, and the recompense for the trouble is in every way Great."

From the opposite quarter of Berwick-on-Tweed he wrote again in the midst of storm. But first
his mention of Newcastle, which he had also taken on his way to Edinburgh, reading two nights
there, should be given. "At Newcastle, against the very heavy expenses, I made more than a
hundred guineas profit. A finer audience there is not in England, and I suppose them to be a
specially earnest people; for, while they can laugh till they shake
the roof, they have a very unusual sympathy with what is pathetic
or passionate.

An extraordinary thing occurred on the second night. The room was tremendously crowded and my
gas-apparatus fell down. There was a terrible wave among the people for an instant, and God knows
what destruction of life a rush to the stairs would have caused. Fortunately a lady in the front
of the stalls ran out towards me, exactly in a place where I knew that the whole hall could
see her. So I addressed her, laughing, and half-asked and half-ordered
her to sit down again; and, in a moment, it was all over.

But the men in attendance had such a fearful sense of what might have happened (besides the
real danger of Fire) that they positively shook the boards I stood on, with their trembling,
when they came up to put things right. I am proud to record that the gas-man's sentiment, as
delivered afterwards, was, 'The more you want of the master, the more you'll find in him.' With
which complimentary homage, and with the wind blowing so that I can
hardly hear myself write, I conclude."[246]

It was still blowing,
in shape of a gale from the sea, when, an hour before the reading,
he wrote from the King's Arms at Berwick-on-Tweed.

"As odd and out of the way a place to be at, it appears to me, as ever was seen! And such a ridiculous
room designed for me to read in! An immense Corn Exchange, made of glass and iron, round,
dome-topp'd, lofty, utterly absurd for any such purpose, and full
of thundering echoes; with a little lofty crow's nest of a stone gallery,
breast high, deep in the wall, into which it was designed to put----me!

I instantly struck, of course; and said I would either read in a room attached to this house
(a very snug one, capable of holding 500 people), or not at all.

Terrified local agents glowered, but fell prostrate, and my men took the primitive accommodation
in hand. Ever since, I am alarmed to add, the people (who besought the honour of the visit) have
been coming in numbers quite irreconcileable with the appearance of the place, and what is to
be the end I do not know.

It was poor Arthur Smith's principle that a town on the way paid the expenses of a long through-journey,
and therefore I came." The Reading paid more than those expenses.

Enthusiastic greeting awaited him in Edinburgh. "We had in the hall exactly double what we had on
the first night last time. The success of Copperfield was perfectly unexampled. Four great rounds
of applause with a burst of cheering at the end, and every point taken in the finest manner."
But this was nothing to what befell on the second night, when, by some mistake of the local agents, the
tickets issued were out of proportion to the space available. Writing from Glasgow next day (3rd
of December) he described the scene. While I addressed the crowd in the room, G addressed the
crowd in the street. Fifty frantic men got up in all parts of the hall and addressed me all
at once. Other frantic men made speeches to the walls. The whole B family were borne in on the
top of a wave, and landed with their faces against the front of the platform. It was the most
extraordinary sight. The expenditure of lungs and spirits was (as you may suppose) rather great;
and to sleep well was out of the question. I am therefore rather fagged to-day; and as the hall
in which I read to-night is a large one, I must make my letter a short one. . . . My people
were torn to ribbons last night. They have not a hat among them--and scarcely a coat." He
came home for his Christmas rest by way of Manchester, and thus spoke of the reading there on
the 14th of December. "Copperfield in the Free Trade Hall last Saturday was really a grand scene."

He
was in southern latitudes after Christmas, and on the 8th of January
wrote from Torquay: "We are now in the region of small rooms, and
therefore this trip will not be as profitable as the long one.

I imagine the room here to be very small. Exeter I know, and that is small too. I am very much
used up on the whole, for I cannot bear this moist warm climate. It would kill me very soon. And
I have now got to the point of taking so much out of myself with
Copperfield that I might as well do Richard Wardour. . . .

This is a very pretty place--a compound of Hastings, Tunbridge Wells, and little bits of the hills
about Naples; but I met four respirators as I came up from the station, and three pale curates
without them who seemed in a bad way." They had been not bad omens, however. The success was good,
at both Torquay and Exeter; and he closed the month, and this series of the country readings,
at the great towns of Liverpool and Chester. "The beautiful St. George's Hall crowded to excess
last night" (28th of January 1862) "and numbers turned away.

Brilliant to see when lighted up, and for a reading simply perfect.

You remember that a Liverpool audience is usually dull; but they
put me on my mettle last night, for I never saw such an audience--no,
not even in Edinburgh!

The agents (alone, and of course without any reference to ready money at the doors) had taken
for the two readings two hundred pounds." But as the end approached the fatigues had told severely
on him. He described himself sleeping horribly, and with head dazed and worn by gas and heat.
Rest, before he could resume at the St. James's Hall in March, was
become an absolute necessity.

Two brief extracts from letters of the dates respectively of the 8th
of April[247] and the 28th of June will sufficiently describe the
London readings.

"The money returns have been quite astounding. Think of £190 a night!

The effect of Copperfield exceeds all the expectations which its success in the country led me
to form. It seems to take people entirely by surprise. If this is not new to you, I have not
a word of news. The rain that raineth every day seems to have washed news away or got it under
water." That was in April.

In June he wrote: "I finished my readings on Friday night to an enormous hall--nearly £200. The success
has been throughout complete. It seems almost suicidal to leave off with the town so full, but
I don't like to depart from my public pledge.

A man from Australia is in London ready to pay £10,000 for eight
months there.

If----" It was an If that troubled him for some time, and led to
agitating discussion.

The civil war having closed America, an increase made upon the just-named
offer tempted him to Australia.

He tried to familiarize himself with the fancy that he should thus
also get new material for observation, and he went so far as to plan
an Uncommercial Traveller Upside Down.[248] It is however very doubtful
if such a scheme would have been entertained for a moment, but for
the unwonted difficulties of invention that were now found to beset
a twenty-number story.

Such a story had lately been in his mind, and he had just chosen the title for it (Our Mutual
Friend); but still he halted and hesitated sorely.

"If it was not," (he wrote on the 5th of October 1862) "for the hope
of a gain that would make me more independent of the worst, I could
not look the travel and absence and exertion in the face.

I know perfectly well beforehand how unspeakably wretched I should be. But these renewed and
larger offers tempt me.

I can force myself to go aboard a ship, and I can force myself to do at that reading-desk
what I have done a hundred times; but whether, with all this unsettled fluctuating distress
in my mind, I could force an original book out of it, is another question." On the 22nd, still
striving hard to find reasons to cope with the all but irresistible arguments against any such
adventure, which indeed, with everything that then surrounded him, would have been little short
of madness, he thus stated his experience of his two circuits of
public reading.

"Remember that at home here the thing has never missed fire, but invariably does more the
second time than it did the first; and also that I have got so used to it, and have worked
so hard at it, as to get out of it more than I ever thought was in it for that purpose. I
think all the probabilities for such a country as Australia are immense." The terrible difficulty
was that the home argument struck both ways. "If I were to go it would be a penance and a misery,
and I dread the thought more than I can possibly express. The domestic life of the Readings is all
but intolerable to me when I am away for a few weeks at a time merely,
and what would it be----."

On the other hand it was also a thought of home, far beyond the mere personal loss or gain of
it, that made him willing still to risk even so much misery and penance; and he had a fancy that
it might be possible to take his eldest daughter with him.

"It is useless and needless for me to say what the conflict in my own mind is. How painfully
unwilling I am to go, and yet how painfully sensible that perhaps I ought to go--with all the
hands upon my skirts that I cannot fail to feel and see there, whenever
I look round.

It is a struggle of no common sort, as you will suppose, you who know the circumstances of the
struggler." It closed at once when he clearly saw that to take any of his family with him,
and make satisfactory arrangement for the rest during such an absence, would be impossible. By this
time also he began to find his way to the new story, and better hopes and spirits had returned.

In
January 1863 he had taken his daughter and his sister-in-law to Paris, and he read twice at the
Embassy in behalf of the British Charitable Fund, the success being
such that he consented to read twice again.[249] He passed his birthday
of that year (the 7th of the following month) at Arras.

"You will remember me to-day, I know.

Thanks for it. An odd birthday, but I am as little out of heart as you would have me be--floored
now and then, but coming up again at the call of Time. I wanted to
see this town, birthplace of our amiable Sea Green"

(Robespierre); "and I find a Grande Place so very remarkable and picturesque that it is astonishing
how people miss it. Here too I found, in a bye-country place just near, a Fair going on, with
a Religious Richardson's in it--THÉATRE RELIGIEUX--'donnant six fois par jour, l'histoire de
la Croix en tableaux vivants, depuis la naissance de notre Seigneur
jusqu'à son sepulture.

Aussi l'immolation d'Isaac, par son père Abraham.' It was just before nightfall when I came
upon it; and one of the three wise men was up to his eyes in lamp oil, hanging the moderators.
A woman in blue and fleshings (whether an angel or Joseph's wife I don't know) was addressing
the crowd through an enormous speaking-trumpet; and a very small boy with a property lamb (I
leave you to judge who he was) was standing on his head on a barrel-organ."

Returning to England by Boulogne in the same year, as he stepped into the Folkestone boat he encountered
a friend, Mr. Charles Manby (for, in recording a trait of character so pleasing and honourable,
it is not necessary that I should suppress the name), also passing over to England. "Taking leave
of Manby was a shabby man of whom I had some remembrance, but whom I could not get into his
place in my mind. Noticing when we stood out of the harbour that he was on the brink of the
pier, waving his hat in a desolate manner, I said to Manby, 'Surely I know that man.'--'I should
think you did,' said he: 'Hudson!' He is living--just living--at Paris, and Manby had brought
him on. He said to Manby at parting, 'I shall not have a good dinner again, till you come back.'
I asked Manby why he stuck to him? He said, Because he (Hudson) had so many people in his power,
and had held his peace; and because he (Manby) saw so many Notabilities grand with him now, who
were always grovelling for 'shares' in the days of his grandeur."

Upon Dickens's arrival in London the second series of his readings
was brought to a close; and opportunity may be taken, before describing
the third, to speak of the manuscript volume found among his papers,
containing Memoranda for use in his writings.

FOOTNOTES:

[241] "You will be grieved," he wrote (Saturday 19th of Nov. 1859) "to hear of poor Stone.
On Sunday he was not well. On Monday, went to Dr. Todd, who told him he had aneurism of the
heart. On Tuesday, went to Dr. Walsh, who told him he hadn't. On Wednesday I met him in a
cab in the Square here, and he got out to talk to me.

I walked about with him a little while at a snail's pace, cheering him up; but when I came
home, I told them that I thought him much changed, and in danger. Yesterday at 2 o'clock he died
of spasm of the heart. I am going up to Highgate to look for a grave for him."

[242] He was now hard at work on his story; and a note written from
Gadshill after the funeral shows, what so frequently was incident
to his pursuits, the hard conditions under which sorrow, and its claim
on his exertion, often came to him.

"To-morrow I have to work against time and tide and everything else, to fill up a No. keeping
open for me, and the stereotype plates of which must go to America on Friday. But indeed the enquiry
into poor Alfred's affairs; the necessity of putting the widow and children somewhere; the difficulty
of knowing what to do for the best; and the need I feel under of being as composed and deliberate
as I can be, and yet of not shirking or putting off the occasion that there is for doing a duty;
would have brought me back here to be quiet, under any circumstances."
 The fishermen had gathered
on the nearest boats. A dozen had clambered up and taken seats on the Blanco's low bulwarks.
MacRae gained his own deck and looked at them.

"What's coming off?" he asked quietly. "You fellows holding a convention of some sort?"

One of the men sitting on the big carrier's rail spoke.

"Folly Bay's quit--shut down," he said sheepishly. "We come to see if you'd start buying again."

MacRae sat down on one sheave of his deck winch. He took out a cigarette and lighted it, swung
one foot back and forth. He did not make haste to reply. An expectant hush fell on the crowd.
In the slow-gathering dusk there was no sound but the creak of rubbing gunwales, the low snore
of the sea breaking against the cliffs, and the chug-chug of the last stragglers beating into
the shelter of the Cove.

"He shut down the cannery," the fishermen's spokesman said at last. "We ain't seen a buyer
or collector for three days. The water's full of salmon, an' we been suckin' our thumbs an'
watching 'em play. If you won't buy here again we got to go where there is buyers. And we'd
rather not do that. There's no place on the Gulf as good fishin' as there is here now."

"What was the trouble?" MacRae asked absently. "Couldn't you supply him with fish?"

"Nobody knows. There was plenty of salmon. He cut the price the day after you tied up. He cut
it to six bits. Then he shut down. Anyway, we don't care why he shut down. It don't make no
difference. What we want is for you to start buyin' again. Hell, we're losin' money from daylight
to dark! The water's alive with salmon. An' the season's short. Be a sport, MacRae."

MacRae laughed.

"Be a sport, eh?" he echoed with a trace of amusement in his tone. "I wonder how many of you
would have listened to me if I'd gone around to you a week ago and asked you to give me a sporting
chance?"

No one answered. MacRae threw away his half-smoked cigarette. He stood up.

"All right, I'll buy salmon again," he said quietly. "And I won't ask you to give me first
call on your catch or a chance to make up some of the money I lost bucking Folly Bay, or anything
like that. But I want to tell you something. You know it as well as I do, but I want to jog
your memory with it."

He raised his voice a trifle.

"You fellows know that I've always given you a square deal. You aren't fishing for sport. You're
at this to make a living, to make money if you can. So am I. You are entitled to all you can
get. You earn it. You work for it. So am I entitled to what I can make. I work, I take certain
chances. Neither of us is getting something for nothing. But there is a limit to what either
of us can get. We can't dodge that. You fellows have been dodging it. Now you have to come
back to earth.

"No fisherman can get the prices you have had lately. No cannery can pack salmon at those prices.
Sockeye, the finest canning salmon that swims in the sea, is bringing eighty cents on the Fraser.
Bluebacks are sixty-five cents at Nanaimo, sixty at Cape Mudge, sixty at the Euclataws.

"I can do a little better than that," MacRae hesitated a second. "I can pay a little more,
because the cannery I'm supplying is satisfied with a little less profit than most. Stubby
Abbott is not a hog, and neither am I. I can pay seventy-five cents and make money. I have
told you before that it is to your interest as well as mine to keep me running. I will always
pay as much as salmon are worth. But I cannot pay more. If your appreciation of Folly Bay's
past kindness to you is so keen that you would rather sell him your fish, why, that's your
privilege."

"Aw, that's bunk," a man called. "You know blamed well we wouldn't. Not after him blowin' up
like this."

"How do I know?" MacRae laughed. "If Gower opened up to-morrow again and offered eighty or
ninety cents, he'd get the salmon--even if you knew he would make you take thirty once he got
you where he wanted you."

"Would he?" another voice uprose. "The next time a mustard pot gets any salmon from me, it'll
be because there's no other buyer and no other grounds to fish."

A growled chorus backed this reckless statement.

"That's all right," MacRae said good-naturedly. "I don't blame you for picking up easy money.
Only easy money isn't always so good as it looks. Fly at it in the morning, and I'll take the
fish at the price I've said. If Folly Bay gets into the game again, it's up to you."

When the lights were doused and every fisherman was stretched in his bunk, falling asleep to
the slow beat of a dead swell breaking in the Cove's mouth, Vin Ferrara stood up to seek his
own bed.

"I wonder," he said to Jack, "I wonder why Gower shut down at this stage of the game?"

MacRae shook his head. He was wondering that himself.

CHAPTER XIX

Top Dog

Some ten days later the Bluebird swung at anchor in the kelp just clear of Poor Man's Rock.
From a speck on the horizon the Blanco grew to full shape, flaring bow and pilot house, walking
up the Gulf with a bone in her teeth. She bore down upon her consort, sidled alongside and
made fast with lines to the bitts fore and aft. Vin Ferrara threw back his hatch covers. His
helper forked up salmon with a picaroon. Vin tossed them across into the Blanco's hold. At
the same time the larger carrier's short, stout boom swung back and forth, dumping into the
Bluebird's fish pens at each trip a hundred pounds of cracked ice. Presently this work was
done, the Bluebird's salmon transferred to the Blanco, the Bluebird's pens replenished with
four tons of ice.

Vin checked his tabs with the count of fish. The other men slushed decks clean with buckets
of sea water.

"Twenty-seven hundred," MacRae said. "Big morning. Every troller in the Gulf must be here."

"No, I have to go to Folly Bay and Siwash Islands to-night," Vin told him. "There's about twenty
boats working there and at Jenkins Pass. Salmon everywhere."

They sat in the shade of the Blanco's pilot house. The sun beat mercilessly, a dog-day sun
blazing upon glassy waters, reflected upward in eye-straining shafts. The heat seared. Within
a radius of a mile outside the Rock the trollers chug-chugged here and there, driving straight
ahead, doubling short, wheeling in slow circles, working the eddies. They stood in the small
cockpit aft, the short tiller between their legs, leaving their hands free to work the gear.
They stood out in the hot sun without shade or cover, stripped to undershirt and duck trousers,
many of them barefooted, brown arms bare, wet lines gleaming. Wherever a man looked some fisherman
hauled a line. And everywhere the mirror of the sea was broken by leaping salmon, silver crescents
flashing in the sun.

"Say, what do you know about it?" Vin smiled at MacRae. "Old Gower is trolling."

"Trolling!"

"Rowboat. Plugging around the Rock. He was at it when daylight came. He sold me fifteen fish.
Think of it. Old H.A. rowboat trolling. Selling his fish to you."

Vincent chuckled. His eyes rested curiously on Jack's face.

"Haughty spirit that goes before destruction, as Dolly used to say," he rambled on. "Some come-down
for him. He must be broke flat as a flounder."

"He sold you his salmon?"

"Sure. Nobody else to sell 'em to, is there? Said he was trying his hand. Seemed good-natured
about it. Kinda pleased, in fact, because he had one more than Doug Sproul. He started joshin'
Doug. You know what a crab old Doug is. He got crusty as blazes. Old Gower just grinned at
him and rowed off."

MacRae made no comment, and their talk turned into other channels until Vin hauled his hook
and bore away. MacRae saw to dropping the Blanco's anchor. He would lie there till dusk. Then
he sat in the shade again, looking up at the Gower cottage.

Gower was finished as an exploiter. There was no question about that. When a man as big as
he went down the crash set tongues wagging. All the current talk reached MacRae through Stubby.
That price-war had been Gower's last kick, an incomprehensible, ill-judged effort to reëstablish
his hold on the Squitty grounds, so it was said.

"He never was such a terribly big toad in the cannery puddle," Stubby recited, "and I guess
he has made his last splash. They always cut a wide swath in town, and that sort of thing can
sure eat up coin. I'm kind of sorry for Betty. Still, she'll probably marry somebody with money.
I know two or three fellows who would be tickled to death to get her."

"Why don't you go to the rescue?" MacRae had suggested, with an irony that went wide of the mark.

Stubby looked reflectively at his crippled arm.

"Last summer I would have," he said. "But she couldn't see me with a microscope. And I've found
a girl who seems to think a winged duck is worth while."

"You'll be able to get hold of that ranch of yours again, probably," Stubby had also said.
"The chances are old H.A. will raise what cash he can and try to make a fresh start. It seems
there has been friction in the family, and his wife refused to come through with any of her
available cash. Seems kind of a complicated hole he got into. He's cleaned, anyway. Robbin-Steele
got all his cannery tenders and took over several thousand cases of salmon. I hear he still
has a few debts to be settled when the cannery is sold. Why don't you figure a way of getting
hold of that cannery, Jack?"

"I'm no cannery man," MacRae replied. "Why don't you? I thought you made him an offer."

"I withdrew it," Stubby said. "I have my hands full without that. You've knocked about a hundred
per cent off its value anyway."

"If I can get my father's land back I'll be satisfied," MacRae had said.

He was thinking about that now. He had taken the first steps toward that end, which a year
ago had seemed misty and rather hopeless. Gower rich, impregnable, would hold that land for
his own pleasure and satisfaction. Beaten in the commercial scramble he might be forced to
let it go. And MacRae was ready to pay any price in reason to get it back. That seemed a debt
he owed old Donald MacRae, apart from his own craving to sometime carry out plans they had
made together long before he went away to France. The lives of some men are rooted in the soil
where they were born, where they grow to manhood. Jack MacRae was of that type. He loved the
sea in all its moods and colors, its quiet calm and wildest storms. But the sea was only his
second love. He was a landsman at heart. All seamen are. They come ashore when they are old
and feeble, to give their bodies at last to the earth. MacRae loved the sea, but he loved better
to stand on the slopes running back from Squitty's cliffs, to look at those green meadows and
bits of virgin forest and think that it would all be his again, to have and to hold.

So he had set a firm in Vancouver the task of approaching Gower, to sound him, to see if he
would sell, while he kept in the background. He believed that it was necessary for him to remain
in the background. He believed that Gower would never willingly relinquish that land into his
hands.

MacRae sat on the Blanco's deck, nursing his chin in his palms, staring at Poor Man's Rock
with a grim satisfaction. About that lonely headland strange things had come to pass. Donald
MacRae had felt his first abiding grief there and cried his hurt to a windy sky. He had lived
his last years snatching a precarious living from the seas that swirled about the Rock. The
man who had been the club with which fate bludgeoned old Donald was making his last stand in
sight of the Rock, just as Donald MacRae had done. And when they were all dead and gone, Poor
Man's Rock would still bare its brown hummock of a head between tides, the salmon would still
play along the kelp beds, in the eddies about the Rock. Other men would ply the gear and take
the silver fish. It would all be as if it had never happened. The earth and the sea endured
and men were passing shadows.

Afternoon waned. Faint, cool airs wavered off the land, easing the heat and the sun-glare.
MacRae saw Betty and her father come down to the beach. She helped him slide his rowboat afloat.
Then Gower joined the rowers who were putting out to the Rock for the evening run. He passed
close by the Blanco but MacRae gave him scant heed. His eyes were all for the girl ashore.
Betty sat on a log, bareheaded in the sun. MacRae had a feeling that she looked at him. And
she would be thinking,--God only knew what.

In MacRae's mind arose the inevitable question,--one that he had choked back dozens of times:
Was it worth while to hurt her so, and himself, because their fathers had fought, because there
had been wrongs and injustices? MacRae shook himself impatiently. He was backsliding. Besides
that unappeasable craving for her, vivid images of her with tantalizing mouth, wayward shining
hair, eyes that answered the passion in his own, besides these luring pictures of her which
troubled him sometimes both in waking hours and sleeping, there was a strange, deep-seated
distrust of Betty because she was the daughter of her father. That was irrational, and Jack
MacRae knew it was irrational. But he could not help it. It colored his thought of her. It
had governed his reactions.

MacRae himself could comprehend all too clearly the tragedy of his father's life. But he doubted
if any one else could. He shrank from unfolding it even to Betty,--even to make clear to her
why his hand must be against her father. MacRae knew, or thought he knew--he had reasoned the
thing out many times in the last few months--that Betty would not turn to him against her own
flesh and blood without a valid reason. He could not, even, in the name of love, cut her off
from all that she had been, from all that had made her what she was, and make her happy. And
MacRae knew that if they married and Betty were not happy and contented, they would both be
tigerishly miserable. There was only one possible avenue, one he could not take. He could not
seek peace with Gower, even for Betty's sake.

MacRae considered moodily, viewing the matter from every possible angle. He could not see where
he could do other than as he was doing: keep Betty out of his mind as much as possible and
go on determinedly making his fight to be top dog in a world where the weak get little mercy
and even the strong do not always come off unscarred.

Jack MacRae was no philosopher, nor an intellectual superman, but he knew that love did not
make the world go round. It was work. Work and fighting. Men spent most of their energies in
those two channels.

This they could not escape. Love only shot a rosy glow across life. It did not absolve a man
from weariness or scars. By it, indeed, he might suffer greater stress and deeper scars. To
MacRae, love, such as had troubled his father's life and his own, seemed to be an emotion pregnant
with sorrow. But he could not deny the strange power of this thing called love, when it stirred
men and women.

His deck hand, who was also cook, broke into MacRae's reflections with a call to supper. Jack
went down the companion steps into a forepeak stuffy with the heat of the sun and a galley
stove, a cramped place where they ate heartily despite faint odors of distillate and burned
lubricating oil from the engine room and bilge water that smelled of fish. 

They also worship Kadotski, or saints--mortals canonised by the Kin-rey--and build temples in their
honour. The laws concerning personal and ceremonial purity, which form the principal feature
of this religion, are exceedingly strict, not unlike those imposed on the ancient Jews. There
are several orders of priests, monks, and nuns, whose austerity, like that of Europe, is maintained
in theory more than in practice.

Three other creeds, the Brahminical, the Confucian, and that which deifies the heavenly bodies,
have many adherents; but their priests all acknowledge a certain
religious supremacy to exist in the Kin-rey.

There is universal toleration in these matters; every citizen may profess what faith he chooses,
and change it as often as he chooses, without any one inquiring into his reasons; only it must
be a spontaneous choice, for proselyting is forbidden by law. Christianity alone is proscribed,
and that on account of the political mischief said to have been effected through its adherents
in the seventeenth century. There is a law, by which no one may hire a servant without receiving
a certificate of his not being a Christian; and on New-Year's Day,
which is a great national festival, all the inhabitants of Nangasaki
are obliged to ascend a staircase, and trample on the crucifix, and
other insignia of the Romish faith, which are laid on the steps as
a test.

It is said that many perform the act in violation of their feelings. So much of the religious
state of the empire Golownin elicited in conversation with Teske
and others; but everything on this subject was communicated with evident
reluctance; and though in the course of the walks which they were
permitted to take in harness, the Russian captives sometimes saw the
interior of the temples, they were never permitted to enter while
any religious rites were celebrated.



"Chuck them up," he said.

He counted them silently as they flipped over the bulwark and fell into the chilly hold, marked
a slip, handed Gower the money for them. The hand that took the money, a pudgy hand all angry
red from beating sun, had blisters in the palm. Gower's face, like his hands, was brick red.
Already shreds of skin were peeling from his nose and cheeks. August sun on the Gulf. MacRae
knew its bite and sting. So had his father known. He wondered if Gower ever thought about that now.

But there was in Gower's expression no hint of any disturbing thought. He uttered a brief "thanks"
and pocketed his money. He sat down and took his oars in hand, albeit a trifle gingerly. And
he said to old Doug Sproul, almost jovially:

"Well, Doug, I got as many as you did, this trip."

"Didja?" Sproul snarled. "Kain't buy 'em cheap enough, no more, huh? Gotta ketch 'em yourself,
huh?"

"Hard-boiled old crab, aren't you, Doug?" Gower rumbled in his deep voice. But he laughed.
And he rowed away to the beach before his house. MacRae watched. Betty came down to meet him.
Together they hauled the heavy rowboat out on skids, above the tide mark.

Nearly every day after that he saw Gower trolling around the Rock, sometimes alone, sometimes
with Betty sitting forward, occasionally relieving him at the oars. No matter what the weather,
if a rowboat could work a line Gower was one of them. Rains came, and he faced them in yellow
oilskins. He sweltered under that fiery sun. If his life had been soft and easy, softness and
ease did not seem to be wholly necessary to his existence, not even to his peace of mind. For
he had that. MacRae often wondered at it, knowing the man's history. Gower joked his way to
acceptance among the rowboat men, all but old Doug Sproul, who had forgotten what it was to
speak pleasantly to any one.

He caught salmon for salmon with these old men who had fished all their lives. He sold his
fish to the Blanco or the Bluebird, whichever was on the spot. The run held steady at the Cove
end of Squitty, a phenomenal abundance of salmon at that particular spot, and the Blanco was
there day after day.

And MacRae could not help pondering over Gower and his ways. He was puzzled, not alone about
Gower, but about himself. He had dreamed of a fierce satisfaction in beating this man down,
in making him know poverty and work and privation,--rubbing his nose in the dirt, he had said
to himself.

He had managed it. Gower had joined the ranks of broken men. He was finished as a figure in
industry, a financial power. MacRae knew that, beyond a doubt. Gower had debts and no assets
save his land on the Squitty cliffs and the closed cannery at Folly Bay. The cannery was a
white elephant, without takers in the market. No cannery man would touch it unless he could
first make a contract with MacRae for the bluebacks. They had approached him with such propositions.
Like wolves, MacRae thought, seeking to pick the bones of one of their own pack who had fallen.

And if MacRae needed other evidence concerning Gower, he had it daily before his eyes. To labor
at the oars, to troll early and late in drizzling rain or scorching sunshine, a man only does
that because he must. MacRae's father had done it. As a matter of course, without complaint,
with unprotesting patience.

So did Gower. That did not fit Jack MacRae's conception of the man. If he had not known Gower
he would have set him down as a fat, good-natured, kindly man with an infinite capacity for
hard, disagreeable work.

He never attempted to talk to MacRae. He spoke now and then. But there was no hint of rancor
in his silences. It was simply as if he understood that MacRae did not wish to talk to him,
and that he conceded this to be a proper attitude. He talked with the fishermen. He joked with
them. If one slammed out at him now and then with a touch of the old resentment against Folly
Bay he laughed as if he understood and bore no malice. He baffled MacRae. How could this man
who had walked on fishermen's faces for twenty years, seeking and exacting always his own advantage,
playing the game under harsh rules of his own devising which had enabled him to win--until
this last time--how could he see the last bit of prestige wrested from him and still be cheerful?
How could he earn his daily bread in the literal sweat of his brow, endure blistered hands
and sore muscles and the sting of slime-poison in fingers cut by hooks and traces, with less
outward protest than men who had never known anything else?

MacRae could find no answer to that. He could only wonder. He only knew that some shift of
chance had helped him to put Gower where Gower had put his father. And there was no satisfaction
in the achievement, no sense of victory. He looked at the man and felt sorry for him, and was
uncomfortably aware that Gower, taking salmon for his living with other poor men around Poor
Man's Rock, was in no need of pity. This podgy man with the bright blue eyes and heavy jaw,
who had been Donald MacRae's jealous Nemesis, had lost everything that was supposed to make
life worth living to men of his type. And he did not seem to care. He seemed quite content
to smoke a pipe and troll for salmon. He seemed to be a stranger to suffering. He did not even
seem to be aware of discomfort, or of loss.

MacRae had wanted to make him suffer. He had imagined that poverty and hard, dirty work would
be the fittest requital he could bestow. If Jack MacRae had been gifted with omnipotence when
he read that penned history of his father's life, he would have devised no fitter punishment,
no more fitting vengeance for Gower than that he should lose his fortune and his prestige and
spend his last years getting his bread upon the waters by Poor Man's Rock in sun and wind and
blowy weather.

And MacRae was conscious that if there were any suffering involved in this matter now, it rested
upon him, not upon Gower. Most men past middle age, who have drunk deeply the pleasant wine
of material success, shrink from the gaunt specter of poverty. They have shot their bolt. They
cannot stand up to hard work. They cannot endure privation. They lose heart. They go about
seeking sympathy, railing against the fate. They lie down and the world walks unheeding over
their prone bodies.

Gower was not doing that. If he had done so, MacRae would have sneered at him with contempt.
As it was, in spite of the rancor he had nursed, the feeling which had driven him to reprisal,
he found himself sorry--sorry for himself, sorry for Betty. He had set out to bludgeon Gower,
to humiliate him, and the worst arrows he could sling had blunted their points against the
man's invulnerable spirit. 

Brougham himself was one of the most fiery spirits in this hot region; but a word from the Speaker
would calm him in an instant. Among other qualifications for command, he is possessed of a
fine mellow, deep-toned voice, which, while it powerfully enunciates the "Order," frees the
command from all harshness or severity. As the first commoner in the land, and a truly estimable
gentleman, he was entitled to be well received * * *.

The last person of note who arrived before I departed was Sir Thomas Denman. The Chancellor
was engaged with some one at the moment, and nothing passed betwixt
them but an exchange of bows.

It was nearly ten years since I had seen Brougham and Denman together; the Queen's trial was
then the all-engrossing topic of public consideration. Who could then have foretold that these
men would have in so short a space won the confidence of a sovereign, whom they attacked with
a degree of virulence which, even in those days of party violence, was generally condemned?
The change in feeling is creditable alike to all."

Lord Brougham married, in 1816, Mary Anne, relict of John Slade, Esq., of Hill street, Berkeley-square;
by whom he has one daughter.

Lady Brougham's maiden name was Eden: she is nearly related to the Auckland and Handley families.
At her marriage with Mr. Slade, in 1808, she was accounted an extremely
beautiful young woman; and she was still possessed of great personal
charms at the period of her second union.

Lady Brougham had by her former marriage a son, who inherits his
father's estate, and is an. officer in the army, and a daughter.

Lady Brougham brought no property to her husband but her jointure of £1,500 a-year, and the house No.
5, Hill-street.

Lord Brougham was born in 1779, and is, consequently, in his fifty-second year.

[Footnote 1: We are aware of having already quoted these particulars,
from the Spectator newspaper, at page 412 of the Mirror, vol. xvi.
but their repetition here is essential to the completeness of the
present Memoir.

Of Lord Brougham's family, in connexion with Brougham Castle, in Westmoreland, there were many
conflicting statements at the period of his lordship's elevation to the peerage towards the
close of last year. But there was no joy in it; not when Betty Gower looked at him with that
cold gleam in her gray eyes. Yet he told himself savagely that if he had to take his choice
he would not have done otherwise. And when he had accomplished the last move in his plan and
driven Gower off the island, then he would have a chance to forget that such people had ever
existed to fill a man's days with unhappiness. That, it seemed to him, must be the final disposition
of this problem which his father and Horace Gower and Elizabeth Morton had set for him years
before he was born.

There came a burst of afternoon westerlies which blew small hurricanes from noon to sundown.
But there was always fishing under the broad lee of the cliffs. The Bluebird continued to scuttle
from one outlying point to another, and the Blanco wallowed down to Crow Harbor every other
day with her hold crammed. When she was not under way and the sea was fit the big carrier rode
at anchor in the kelp close by Poor Man's Rock, convenient for the trollers to come alongside
and deliver when they chose. There were squalls that blew up out of nowhere and drove them
all to cover. There were days when a dead swell rolled and the trolling boats dipped and swung
and pointed their bluff bows skyward as they climbed the green mountains,--for the salmon strike
when a sea is on, and a troller runs from heavy weather only when he can no longer handle his gear.

MacRae was much too busy to brood long at a time. The phenomenal run of blueback still held,
with here and there the hook-nosed coho coming in stray schools. He had a hundred and forty
fishermen to care for in the matter of taking their catch, keeping them supplied with fuel,
bringing them foodstuffs such as they desired. The Blanco came up from Vancouver sometimes
as heavily loaded as when she went down. But he welcomed the work because it kept him from
too intense thinking. He shepherded his seafaring flock for his profit and theirs alike and
poured salmon by tens of thousands into the machines at Crow Harbor,--red meat to be preserved
in tin cans which in months to come should feed the hungry in the far places of the earth.

MacRae sometimes had the strange fancy of being caught in a vast machine for feeding the world,
a machine which did not reckon such factors as pain and sorrow in its remorseless functioning.
Men could live without love or ease or content. They could not survive without food.

He came up to Squitty one bright afternoon when the sea was flat and still, unharassed by the
westerly. The Cove was empty. All the fleet was scattered over a great area. The Bluebird was
somewhere on her rounds. MacRae dropped the Blanco's hook in the middle of Cradle Bay, a spot
he seldom chose for anchorage. But he had a purpose in this. When the bulky carrier swung head
to the faint land breeze MacRae was sitting on his berth in the pilot house, glancing over
a letter he held in his hand. It was from a land-dealing firm in Vancouver. One paragraph is
sufficiently illuminating:

      In regard to the purchase of this Squitty Island property we beg
      to advise you that Mr. Gower, after some correspondence, states
      distinctly that while he is willing to dispose of this property
      he will only deal directly with a bona fide purchaser.

      We therefore suggest that you take the matter up with Mr. Gower
      personally.

MacRae put the sheet back in its envelope. He stared thoughtfully through an open window which
gave on shore and cottage. He could see Gower sitting on the porch, the thick bulk of the man
clean-cut against the white wall. As he looked he saw Betty go across the untrimmed lawn, up
the path that ran along the cliffs, and pass slowly out of sight among the stunted, wind-twisted
firs.

He walked to the after deck, laid hold of the dinghy, and slid it overboard. Five minutes later
he had beached it and was walking up the gravel path to the house.

He was conscious of a queer irritation against Gower. If he were willing to sell the place,
why did he sit like a spider in his web and demand that victims come to him? MacRae was wary,
distrustful, suspicious, as he walked up the slope. Some of the old rancor revived in him.
Gower might have a shaft in his quiver yet, and the will to use it.

CHAPTER XX

The Dead and Dusty Past

Gower sat in a deep grass chair, a pipe sagging one corner of his mouth, his slippered feet
crossed on a low stool. His rubber sea boots lay on the porch floor as if he had but discarded
them. MacRae took in every detail of his appearance in one photographic glance, as a man will
when his gaze rests upon another with whom he may be about to clash.

Gower no longer resembled the well-fed plutocrat. He scarcely seemed the same man who, nearly
two years before, had absently bestowed upon MacRae a dollar for an act of simple courtesy.
He wore nondescript trousers which betrayed a shrunken abdominal line, a blue flannel shirt
that bared his short, thick neck. And in that particular moment, at least, the habitual sullenness
of his heavy face was not in evidence. He looked placid in spite of the fiery redness which
sun and wind had burned into his skin. He betrayed no surprise at MacRae's coming. The placidity
of his blue eyes did not alter in any degree.

"Hello, MacRae," he said.

"How d' do," MacRae answered. "I came to speak to you about a little matter of business."

"Yes?" Gower rumbled. "I've been sort of expecting you."

"Oh?" MacRae failed to conceal altogether his surprise at this statement. "I understand you
are willing to sell this place. I want to buy it."

"It was yours once, wasn't it?"

The words were more of a comment than a question, but MacRae answered:

"You know that, I think."

"And you want it back?"

"Naturally."

"If that's what you want," Gower said slowly. "I'll see you in----"

He cut off the sentence. His round stomach--less round by far than it had been two months earlier--shook
with silent laughter. His eyes twinkled. His thick, stubby fingers drummed on the chair arm.

MacRae's face grew hot. He recognized the unfinished sentence as one of his own, words he had
flung in Gower's face not so long since. If that was the way of it he could save his breath.
He turned silently.

"Wait."

He faced about at the changed quality of Gower's tone. The amused expression had vanished.
Gower leaned forward a little. There was something very like appeal in his expression. MacRae
was suddenly conscious of facing a still different man,--an oldish, fat man with thinning hair
and tired, wistful eyes.

"I just happened to think of what you said to me not long ago," Gower explained. "It struck
me as funny. But that isn't how I feel. If you want this land you can have it. Take a chair.
Sit down. I want to talk to you."

"There is nothing the matter with my legs," MacRae said shortly. "I do want this land. I will
pay you the price you paid for it, in cash, when you execute a legal transfer. Is that satisfactory?"

"What about this house?" Gower asked casually. "It's worth something, isn't it?"

"Not to me," MacRae replied. "I don't want the house. You can take it away with you, if you like."

Gower looked at him thoughtfully.

"The Scotch," he said, "cherish a grudge like a family heirloom."

"Perhaps they do," MacRae answered. "Why not? If you knock a man down you don't expect him
to jump up and shake hands with you. You had your inning. It was a long one."

"I wonder," Gower said slowly, "why old Donald MacRae kept his mouth closed to you about trouble
between us until he was ready to die?"

"How do you know he did that?" MacRae demanded harshly.

"The night you came to ask for the Arrow to take him to town you had no such feeling against
me as you have had since," Gower said. "I know you didn't. You wouldn't have come if you had.
I cut no figure in your eyes, one way or the other, until after he was dead. So he must have
told you at the very last. What did he tell you? Why did he have to pass that old poison on
to another generation?"

"Why shouldn't he?" MacRae demanded. "You made his life a failure. You put a scar on his face--I
can remember when I was a youngster wondering how he got that mark--I remember how it stood
like a ridge across his cheek bone when he was dead. You put a scar upon his soul that no one
but himself ever saw or felt--except as I have been able to feel it since I knew. You weren't
satisfied with that. You had to keep on throwing your weight against him for thirty years.
You didn't even stop when the war made everything seem different. You might have let up then.
We were doing our bit. But you didn't. You kept on until you had deprived him of everything
but the power to row around the Rock day after day and take a few salmon in order to live.
You made a pauper of him and sat here gloating over it. It preyed on his mind to think that
I should come back from France and find myself a beggar because he was unable to cope with
you. He lived his life without whimpering to me, except to say he did not like you. He only
wrote this down for me to read--when he began to feel that he would never see me again--the
reasons why he had failed in everything, lost everything. When I pieced out the story, from
the day you used your pike pole to knock down a man whose fighting hands were tied by a promise
to a woman he loved, from then till the last cold-blooded maneuver by which you got this land
of ours, I hated you, and I set out to pay you back in your own coin.

"But," MacRae continued after a momentary hesitation, "that is not what I came here to say.
Talk--talk's cheap. I would rather not talk about these things, or think of them, now. I want
to buy this land from you if you are willing to sell. That's all."

Gower scarcely seemed to hear him. There is a horrible respectability about most of the best
of them--a little, finite, systematic routine in them, strangely
expressive to me of the state of England itself.

As a mere fact, Frith, Ward, and Egg, come out the best in such pictures as are here, and attract to the
greatest extent. The first, in the picture from the Good-natured Man; the second, in the Royal
Family in the Temple; the third, in the Peter the Great first seeing Catherine--which I always
thought a good picture, and in which foreigners evidently descry a sudden dramatic touch that pleases
them. There are no end of bad pictures among the French, but, Lord! the goodness also!--the fearlessness
of them; the bold drawing; the dashing conception; the passion and
action in them![206] The Belgian department is full of merit.

It has the best landscape in it, the best portrait, and the best scene of homely life, to be
found in the building. Don't think it a part of my despondency about public affairs, and my
fear that our national glory is on the decline, when I say that mere form and conventionalities
usurp, in English art, as in English government and social relations,
the place of living force and truth.

I tried to resist the impression yesterday, and went to the English
gallery first, and praised and admired with great diligence; but it
was of no use.

I could not make anything better of it than what I tell you. Of course this is between ourselves.
Friendship is better than criticism, and I shall steadily hold my tongue. Discussion is worse
than useless when you cannot agree about what you are going to discuss." French nature is
all wrong, said the English artists whom Dickens talked to; but surely not because it is French,
was his reply. The English point of view is not the only one to take men and women from. The
French pictures are "theatrical," was the rejoinder. But the French themselves are a demonstrative
and gesticulating people, was Dickens's retort; and what thus is rendered by their artists
is the truth through an immense part of the world. "I never saw anything so strange. They seem
to me to have got a fixed idea that there is no natural manner but the English manner (in
itself so exceptional that it is a thing apart, in all countries); and that unless a Frenchman--represented
as going to the guillotine for example--is as calm as Clapham, or
as respectable as Richmond-hill, he cannot be right."

To the sittings at Ary Scheffer's some troubles as well as many pleasures were incident, and
both had mention in his letters. "You may faintly imagine what I have suffered from sitting to
Scheffer every day since I came back. He is a most noble fellow, and I have the greatest pleasure
in his society, and have made all sorts of acquaintances at his house; but I can scarcely
express how uneasy and unsettled it makes me to have to sit, sit, sit, with Little Dorrit
on my mind, and the Christmas business too--though that is now happily
dismissed.

On Monday afternoon, and all day on Wednesday, I am going to sit again. And the crowning feature
is, that I do not discern the slightest resemblance, either in his portrait or his brother's!
They both peg away at me at the same time." The sittings were varied by a special entertainment,
when Scheffer received some sixty people in his "long atelier"--"including a lot of French
who say (but I don't believe it) that they know English"--to whom
Dickens, by special entreaty, read his Cricket on the Hearth.

That was at the close of November. January came, and the end of the sittings was supposed to be
at hand.

"The nightmare portrait is nearly done; and Scheffer promises that an interminable sitting next
Saturday, beginning at 10 o'clock in the morning, shall finish it. It is a fine spirited head,
painted at his very best, and with a very easy and natural appearance in it. But it does not
look to me at all like, nor does it strike me that if I saw it in a gallery I should suppose myself
to be the original. It is always possible that I don't know my own face. It is going to be
engraved here, in two sizes and ways--the mere head and the whole
thing."

A fortnight later, the interminable sitting came. "Imagine me if you please with No. 5 on my
head and hands, sitting to Scheffer yesterday four hours! At this stage of a story, no one
can conceive how it distresses me." Still this was not the last. March had come before the
portrait was done. "Scheffer finished yesterday; and Collins, who has a good eye for pictures,
says that there is no man living who could do the painting about the eyes. As a work of art
I see in it spirit combined with perfect ease, and yet I don't see myself. So I come to the conclusion
that I never do see myself. I shall be very curious to know the effect of it upon you." March
had then begun; and at its close Dickens, who had meanwhile been
in England, thus wrote: "I have not seen Scheffer since I came back,
but he told Catherine a few days ago that he was not satisfied with
the likeness after all, and thought he must do more to it.



MacRae shifted uneasily.

"You see," Gower continued, "my life has been a failure, too. When Donald MacRae and I clashed,
I prevailed. I got what I wanted. But it was only a shadow. There was no substance. It didn't
do me any good. I have made money, barrels of it, and that has not done me any good. I've been
successful at everything I undertook--except lately--but succeeding as the world reckons success
hasn't made me happy. In my personal life I've been a damned failure. I've always been aware
of that. And if I have held a feeling toward Donald MacRae these thirty-odd years, it was a
feeling of envy. I would have traded places with him and been the gainer. I would have liked
to tell him so. But I couldn't. He was a dour Scotchman and I suppose he hated me, although
he kept it to himself. I suppose he loved Bessie. I know I did. Perhaps he cherished hatred
of me for wrecking his dream, and so saw my hand in things where it never was. But he was wrong.
Bessie would have wrecked it and him too. She would have whined and sniffled about being a
poor man's wife, once she learned what it was to be poor. She could never understand anything
but a silk-lined existence. She loved herself and her own illusions. She would have driven
him mad with her petty whims, her petty emotions. She doesn't know the meaning of loyalty,
consideration, or even an open, honest hatred. And I've stood it all these years--because I
don't shirk responsibilities, and I had brought it on myself."

He stopped a second, staring out across the Gulf.

"But apart from that one thing, I never consciously or deliberately wronged Donald MacRae.
He may honestly have believed I did. I have the name of being hard. I dare say I am. The world
is a hard place. When I had to choose between walking on a man's face and having my own walked
on, I never hesitated. There was nothing much to make me soft. I moved along the same lines
as most of the men I know.

"But, I repeat, I never put a straw in your father's way. I know that things went against him.
I could see that. I knew why, too. He was too square for his time and place. He trusted men
too much. You can't always do that. He was too scrupulously honest. He always gave the other
fellow the best of it. That alone beat him. He didn't always consider his own interest and
follow up every advantage. I don't think he cared to scramble for money, as a man must scramble
for it these days. He could have held this place if he had cast about for ways to do so. There
were plenty of loopholes. But he had that old-fashioned honor which doesn't seek loopholes.
He had borrowed money on it. He would have taken the coat off his back, beggared himself any
day to pay a debt. Isn't that right?"

MacRae nodded.

"So this place came into my hands. It was deliberate on my part--but only, mind you, when I
knew that he was bound to lose it. Perhaps it was bad judgment on my part. I didn't think that
he would see it as an end I'd been working for. As I grew older, I found myself wanting now
and then to wipe out that old score between us. I would have given a good deal to sit down
with him over a pipe. A woman, who wasn't much as women go, had made us both suffer. So I built
this cottage and came here to stay now and then. I liked the place. I liked to think that now
he and I were getting to be old men, we could be friends. But he was too bitter. And I'm human.
I've got a bit of pride. I couldn't crawl. So I never got nearer to him than to see him rowing
around the Rock. And he died full of that bitterness. I don't like to think of that. Still,
it cannot be helped. Do you grasp this, MacRae? Do you believe me?"

Incredible as it seemed, MacRae had no choice but to accept that explanation of strangely twisted
motives, those misapprehensions, the murky cloud of misunderstanding. The tone of Gower's voice,
his attitude, carried supreme conviction. And still--

"Yes," he said at last. "It is all a contradiction of things I have been passionately sure
of for nearly two years. But I can see--yes, it must be as you say. I'm sorry."

"Sorry? For what?" Gower regarded him soberly.

"Many things. Why did you tell me this?"

"Why should the anger and bitterness of two old men be passed on to their children?" Gower
asked him gently.

MacRae stared at him. Did he know? Had he guessed? Had Betty told him? He wondered. It was
not like Betty to have spoken of what had passed between them. Yet he did not know how close
a bond might exist between this father and daughter, who were, MacRae was beginning to perceive,
most singularly alike. And this was a shrewd old man, sadly wise in human weaknesses, and much
more tolerant than MacRae had conceived possible. He felt a little ashamed of the malice with
which he had fought this battle of the salmon around Squitty Island. Yet Gower by his own admission
was a hard man. He had lived with a commercial sword in his hand. He knew what it was to fall
by that weapon. He had been hard on the fishermen. He had exploited them mercilessly. Therein
lay his weakness, whereby he had fallen, through which MacRae had beaten him. But had he beaten
him? MacRae was not now so sure about that. But it was only a momentary doubt. He struggled
a little against the reaction of kindliness, this curious sympathy for Gower which moved him
now. He hated sentimentalism, facile yielding to shallow emotions. He wanted to talk and he
was dumb. Dumb for appropriate words, because his mind kept turning with passionate eagerness
upon Betty Gower.

"Does Betty know what you have just told me?" he asked at last.

Gower shook his head.

"She knows there is something. I can't tell her. I don't like to. It isn't a nice story. I
don't shine in it--nor her mother."

"Nor do I," MacRae muttered to himself.

He stood looking over the porch rail down on the sea where the Blanco swung at her anchor chain.
There seemed nothing more to say. Yet he was aware of Gower's eyes upon him with something
akin to expectancy. An uncertain smile flitted across MacRae's face.

"This has sort of put me on my beam ends," he said, using a sailor's phrase. "Don't you feel
as if I'd rather done you up these two seasons?"

Gower's heavy features lightened with a grimace of amusement.

"Well," he said, "you certainly cost me a lot of money, one way and another. But you had the
nerve to go at it--and you used better judgment of men and conditions than anybody has manifested
in the salmon business lately, unless it's young Abbott. So I suppose you are entitled to win
on your merits. By the way, there is one condition tacked to selling you this ranch. I hesitated
about bringing it up at first. Pearls are abundant; but not being considered ornamental, they are
reserved for the Chinese market.

Steel and porcelain are the manufactures in which the Japanese chiefly excel, besides those in
silk-stuffs and lacquered ware already mentioned.

Their porcelain is far superior to the Chinese, but it is scarce
and dear.

With respect to steel manufactures, the sabres and daggers of Japan yield only perhaps to
those of Damascus; and Golownin says their cabinet-makers' tools
might almost be compared with the English.

"I'm glad you came to-day," Gower said huskily. "Come again--soon."

He stood on the porch and watched MacRae stride down to the beach and put off in his dinghy.
Then he took out a handkerchief and blew his nose with a tremendous amount of unnecessary noise
and gesture. There was something suspiciously like moisture brightening his eyes.

But when he saw MacRae stand in the dinghy alongside the Blanco and speak briefly to his men,
then row in under Point Old behind Poor Man's Rock which the tide was slowly baring, when he
climbed up over the Point and took the path along the cliff edge, that suspicious brightness
in Gower's keen old eyes was replaced by a twinkle. He sat down in his grass chair and hummed
a little tune, the while one slippered foot kept time, rat-a-pat, on the floor of the porch.

CHAPTER XXI

As it Was in the Beginning

MacRae followed the path along the cliffs. He did not look for Betty. His mind was on something
else, engrossed in considerations which had little to do with love. If it be true that a man
keeps his loves and hates and hobbies and ambitions and appetites in separate chambers, any
of which may be for a time so locked that what lies therein neither troubles nor pleases him,
then that chamber in which he kept Betty Gower's image was hermetically sealed. Her figure
was obscured by other figures,--his father and Horace Gower and himself.

Not until he had reached the Cove's head and come to his own house did he recall that Betty
had gone along the cliffs, and that he had not seen her as he passed. But that could easily
happen, he knew, in that mile stretch of trees and thickets, those deep clefts and pockets
in the rocky wall that frowned upon the sea.

He went into the house. Out of a box on a shelf in his room he took the message his father
had left him and sitting down in the shadowy coolness of the outer room began to read it again,
slowly, with infinite care for the reality his father had meant to convey.

All his life, as Jack remembered him, Donald MacRae had been a silent man, who never talked
of how he felt, how things affected him, who never was stricken with that irresistible impulse
to explain and discuss, to relieve his troubled soul with words, which afflicts so many men.
It seemed as if he had saved it all for that final summing-up which was to be delivered by
his pen instead of his lips. He had become articulate only at the last. It must have taken
him weeks upon weeks to write it all down, this autobiography which had been the mainspring
of his son's actions for nearly two years. There was wind and sun in it, and blue sky and the
gray Gulf heaving; somber colors, passion and grief, an apology and a justification.

MacRae laid down the last page and went outside to sit on the steps. Shadows were gathering
on the Cove. Far out, the last gleam of the sun was touching the Gulf. A slow swell was rising
before some far, unheralded wind. The Blanco came gliding in and dropped anchor. Trollers began
to follow. They clustered about the big carrier like chickens under the mother wing. By these
signs MacRae knew that the fish had stopped biting, that it was lumpy by Poor Man's Rock. He
knew there was work aboard. But he sat there, absent-eyed, thinking.

He was full of understanding pity for his father, and also for Horace Gower. He was conscious
of being a little sorry for himself. But then he had only been troubled a short two years by
this curious aftermath of old passions, whereas they had suffered all their lives. He had got
a new angle from which to approach his father's story. He knew now that he had reacted to something
that was not there. He had been filled with a thirst for vengeance, for reprisal, and he had
declared war on Gower, when that was not his father's intent. Old Donald MacRae had hated Gower
profoundly in the beginning. He believed that Gower hated him and had put the weight of his
power against him, wherever and whenever he could. But life itself had beaten him,--and not
Gower. That was what he had been trying to tell his son.

And life itself had beaten Gower in a strangely similar fashion. He too was old, a tired, disappointed
man. He had reached for material success with one hand and happiness with the other. One had
always eluded him. The other Jack MacRae had helped wrest from him. MacRae could see Gower's
life in detached pictures, life that consisted of making money and spending it, life with a
woman who whined and sniffled and complained. These things had been a slow torture. MacRae
could no longer regard this man as a squat ogre, merciless, implacable, ready and able to crush
whatsoever opposed him. He was only a short, fat, oldish man with tired eyes, who had been
bruised by forces he could not understand or cope with until he had achieved a wistful tolerance
for both things and men.

Both these old men, MacRae perceived, had made a terrible hash of their lives. Neither of them
had succeeded in getting out of life much that a man instinctively feels that he should get.
Both had been capable of happiness. Both had struggled for happiness as all men struggle. Neither
had ever securely grasped any measure of it, nor even much of content.

MacRae felt a chilly uncertainty as he sat on his doorstep considering this. He had been traveling
the same road for many months,--denying his natural promptings, stifling a natural passion,
surrendering himself to an obsession of vindictiveness, planning and striving to return evil
for what he conceived to be evil, and being himself corrupted by the corrosive forces of hatred.

He had been diligently bestowing pain on Betty, who loved him quite openly and frankly as he
desired to be loved; Betty, who was innocent of these old coils of bitterness, who was primitive
enough in her emotions, MacRae suspected, to let nothing stand between her and her chosen mate
when that mate beckoned.

But she was proud. He knew that he had puzzled her to the point of anger, hurt her in a woman's
most vital spot.

"I've been several kinds of a fool," MacRae said to himself. "I have been fooling myself."

He had said to himself once, in a somber mood, that life was nothing but a damned dirty scramble
in which a man could be sure of getting hurt. But it struck him now that he had been sedulously
inflicting those hurts upon himself. Nature cannot be flouted. She exacts terrible penalties
for the stifling, the inhibition, the deflection of normal instincts, fundamental impulses.
He perceived the operation of this in his father's life, in the thirty years of petty conflict
between Horace Gower and his wife. And he had unconsciously been putting himself and Betty
in the way of similar penalties by exalting revenge for old, partly imagined wrongs above that
strange magnetic something which drew them together.

Twilight was at hand. Looking through the maple and alder fringe before his house MacRae saw
the fishing boats coming one after the other, clustering about the Blanco. He went down and
slid the old green dugout afloat and so gained the deck of his vessel. For an hour thereafter
he worked steadily until all the salmon were delivered and stowed in the Blanco's chilly hold.

He found it hard to keep his mind on the count of salmon, on money to be paid each man, upon
these common details of his business. His thought reached out in wide circles, embracing many
things, many persons: Norman Gower and Dolly, who had had courage to put the past behind them
and reach for happiness together; Stubby Abbott and Etta Robbin-Steele, who were being flung
together by the same inscrutable forces within them. Love might not truly make the world go
round, but it was a tremendous motive power in human actions. Like other dynamic forces it
had its dangerous phases. Love, as MacRae had experienced it, was a curious mixture of affection
and desire, of flaming passion and infinite tenderness. Betty Gower warmed him like a living
flame when he let her take possession of his thought. She was all that his fancy could conjure
as desirable. She was his mate. He had felt that, at times, with a conviction beyond reason
or logic ever since the night he kissed her in the Granada. If fate, or the circumstances he
had let involve him, should juggle them apart, he felt that the years would lead him down long,
drab corridors.

And he was suddenly determined that should not happen. His imagination flung before him kinetoscopic
flashes of what his father's life had been and Horace Gower's. That vision appalled MacRae.
He would not let it happen,--not to him and Betty.

He washed, ate his supper, lay on his bunk in the pilot house and smoked a cigarette. Then
he went out on deck. The moon crept up in a cloudless sky, dimming the stars. There was no
wind about the island. But there was wind loose somewhere on the Gulf. The glass was falling.
The swells broke more heavily along the cliffs. At the mouth of the Cove white sheets of spray
lifted as each comber reared and broke in that narrow place.

He recollected that he had left the Blanco's dinghy hauled up on the beach on the tip of Point
Old. He got ashore now in the green dugout and walked across to the Point.

A man is seldom wholly single-track in his ideas, his impulses. MacRae thought of the dinghy.
He had a care for its possible destruction by the rising sea. But he thought also of Betty.
There was a pleasure in simply looking at the house in which she lived. Lights glowed in the
windows. The cottage glistened in the moonlight.

When he came out on the tip of the Point the dinghy, he saw, lay safe where he had dragged
it up on the rocks. And when he had satisfied himself of this he stood with hands thrust deep
in his pockets, looking down on Poor Man's Rock, watching the swirl and foam as each swell
ran over its sunken head.

MacRae had a subconscious perception of beauty, beauty of form and color. It moved him without
his knowing why. He was in a mood to respond to beauty this night. He had that buoyant, grateful
feeling which comes to a man when he has escaped some great disaster, when he is suddenly freed
from some grim apprehension of the soul.

The night was one of wonderful beauty. The moon laid its silver path across the sea. The oily
swells came up that moon-path in undulating folds to break in silver fragments along the shore.
The great island beyond the piercing shaft of the Ballenas light and the mainland far to his
left lifted rugged mountains sharp against the sky. There are some epigrams, and highly cultivated
ones, that have an equable elevation throughout and nothing of especial note in the conclusion,
as in this of a contemporary writer:

That on insurgent serpents breathing peace, On unplumed eagles trembling, on tame pards, And
lions whose low necks accept the yoke, Louis looks out, sublime on
a bronze horse, Nor fingers shaped this nor the craftsman's forge
But worth and God's fortune accomplished it.

The armed venger of faith, trustee of peace, Ordained, for all to reverence, this, and bade Rise
in the royal place the reverend bronze, That, the long perils past of civil strife, And enemies
subdued by prosperous arms, Louis should ever triumph in the master
city.[37]

Again, in some epigrams there is a straightforward neatness
and a gentle and dry humor that pleases, as may be seen in some of
Catullus' epigrams which we have put in this anthology.

Some go to the contrary extreme and not only do not require such conclusions
but even scorn them.

These are for the most part the outrageous lovers of Catullus who,
as long as they finish off some limp little dirge in hendecasyllabics,
feel that they are marvellously charming and polished, although there
is nothing more empty than such verses or nothing easier to do if
a man has acquired a little practice in Latin.

How little effort, for instance, shall we imagine the conclusion of this epigram cost Borbonius,
fashioned as it is according to the model of Catullus?

Wherefore come, O Roman muses, Full of honey and of graces, Learned
verses of good Pino; I embrace you, just Camenae, All day long I read
you gladly In this mortifying season, Time of tears and time of penance,
Harsh and troublesome, by Jupiter![38]

You can see where the perverse
imitation of Catullus has conducted a Christian, in other respects
devout, so that in discussing a Christian fast day he had no fear
of using the profane name of Jove.

But, leaving this aside, what is more inept than the verse Harsh and troublesome, by Jupiter!,
however Catullan. Nevertheless, Borbonius thought his epigram concluded elegantly in that line
because he found in Catullus a similar one.[39] But, leaving aside
such spiritless imitators, one can truly affirm of those ideas that
conclude epigrams that there is a good deal of elegance in them when
they are themselves distinguished and nicely cohere with the preceding
chain of thought.

For, since nothing so sticks in the reader's mind as the conclusion,
what is better than to put there what especially you want to fix in
his soul.

Consequently, those epigrams are rightly censured as faulty that
go in the order of anti-climax or in which the conclusion is sort
of added on or appended to the rest and does not neatly develop out
of the preceding verses.

This fault is discernible in the following epigram, though in other
respects it is distinguished:

You that a stranger in mid-Rome seek
Rome And can find nothing in mid-Rome of Rome, Behold this mass of
walls, these abrupt rocks, Where the vast theatre lies overwhelmed.

Here, here is Rome!

Look how the very corpse Of greatness still imperiously breathes threats! The world she conquered,
strove herself to conquer, Conquered that nothing be unconquered by her. Now conqueror Rome's
interred in conquered Rome, And the same Rome conquered and conqueror.

Still Tiber stays, witness of Roman fame, Still Tiber flows on swift
waves to the sea.

Learn hence what Fortune can: the unmoved falls, And the ever-moving
will remain forever.[40]

The last four verses are completely unnecessary
and contain a frigid point by which the lustre of the preceding is
dimmed.

 Daddy was simply tickled stiff when Norman
showed his teeth--when he cut loose from everything and married Dolly, and all that. He's a
very wise old man, that father of mine, Jack. He hasn't ever got much real satisfaction in
his life. He has been more content this last month or so than I can ever remember him. We have
always had loads of money, and while it's nice to have plenty, I don't think it did him any
good. My whole life has been lived in an atmosphere of domestic incompatibility. I think I
should make a very capable wife--I have had so many object lessons in how not to be. My mother
wasn't a success either as a wife or a mother. It is a horrible thing to say, but it's really
true, Jack. Mamma's a very well-bred, distinguished-looking person with exquisite taste in
dress and dinner parties, and that's about the only kind thing I can say for her. Do you really
love me, Jack? Heaps and heaps?"

She shot this question at him with a swift change of tone and an earnestness which straightway
drove out of MacRae's mind every consideration save the proper and convincing answer to such
intimate questions.

"Look," Betty said after a long interval. "Daddy has built a fire on the beach. He does that
sometimes, and we sit around it and roast clams in the coals. Johnny, Johnny," she squeezed
his arm with a quick pressure, "we're going to have some good times on this island now."

MacRae laughed indulgently. He was completely in accord with that prophecy.

The blaze Gower had kindled flickered and wavered, a red spot on the duskier shore, with a
yellow nimbus in which they saw him move here and there, and sit down at last with his back
to a log and his feet stretched to the fire.

"Let's go down," MacRae suggested, "and break the news to him."

"I wonder what he'll say?" Betty murmured thoughtfully.

"Haven't you any idea?" MacRae asked curiously.

"No. Honestly, I haven't," Betty replied. "Daddy's something like you, Jack. He's in the sugar-trade,
Rob writes me. But they'll always be boys to me, Jacky,--boys."

His head dropped, with a smile still on his mouth, and he began fingering his scanty beard,
as was his habit in his fits of silent musing. Jacqueline looked at him satisfied, then turned
to me.

I do not know what she saw upon my face, but she turned hastily away.

"It's a town with a real character of its own, Newport, Mrs. Manning,"--trying to make her coarse
bass voice gentle.

"You'll understand it better than I. New-York houses, now, even these
on the Hudson, hint at nothing but a satisfied animal necessity.

But there, with the queer dead streets, like a bit of the old-time
world, and the big salt sea"----She began to stammer, as usual, and
grow confused.

"It's like looking out of some far-gone, drowsy old day of the Colonies, and yet feeling life
and eternity fresh and near to you."

I only smiled civilly, by way of answer. Jacqueline always tried me. She was Western-born, I
a New-Englander; and every trait about her, from the freedom with which she hurled out her opinions
to the very setting-down of her broad foot, jarred on me as a something boorish and reckless. Her
face grew red now.

"I don't say what I want exactly," she hesitated. "I only hoped you'd
like the town, that it would reconcile----There's crabs there," desperately
turning to Teddy, who was playing a furtive game of marbles under
the table, and grabbing him by the foot. "Come here till I tell you
about the crabs."

Betty subsided. MacRae smiled. There was a whimsicality about Gower's way of taking this that
pleased MacRae.

They toasted their feet at the fire until the wavering flame burned down to a bed of glowing
coals. They talked of this and that, of everything but themselves until the moon was swimming
high and the patches of cottony cloud sailing across the moon's face cast intense black patches
on the silvery radiance of the sea.

"I've got some clams in a bucket," Gower said at last. "Let's roast some. You get plates and
forks and salt and pepper and butter, Bet, while I put the clams on the fire."

Betty went away to the house. Gower raked a flat rock, white-hot, out to the edge of the coals
and put fat quahaugs on it to roast. Then he sat back and looked at MacRae.

"I wonder if you realize how lucky you are?" he said.

"I think I do," MacRae answered. "You don't seem much surprised."

Gower smiled.

"Well, no. I can't say I am. That first night you came to the cottage to ask for the Arrow
I got a good look at you, and you struck me as a fine, clean sort of boy, and I said to myself,
'Old Donald has never told him anything and he has no grudge against me, and wouldn't it be
a sort of compensation if those two should fall naturally and simply in love with each other?'
Yes, it may seem sentimental, but that idea occurred to me. Of course, it was just an idea.
Betty would marry whoever she wanted to marry. I knew that. Nothing but her own judgment would
influence her in a matter of that sort. I know. I've watched her grow up. Maybe it's a good
quality or maybe it's a bad one, but she has always had a bull-dog sort of persistence about
anything that strikes her as really important.

"And of course I had no way of knowing whether she would take a fancy to you or you to her.
So I just watched. And maybe I boosted the game a little, because I'm a pretty wise old fish
in my own way. I took a few whacks at you, now and then, and she flew the storm signals without
knowing it."

Gower smiled reminiscently, stroking his chin with his hand.

"I had to fight you, after a fashion, to find out what sort of stuff you were, for my own satisfaction,"
he continued. "I saw that you had your Scotch up and were after my scalp, and I knew it couldn't
be anything but that old mess. That was natural. But I thought I could square that if I could
ever get close enough to you. Only I couldn't manage that naturally. And this scramble for
the salmon got me in deep before I realized where I was. I used to feel sorry for you and Betty.
I could see it coming. You both talk with your eyes. I have seen you both when you didn't know
I was near.

"So when I saw that you would fight me till you broke us both, and also that if I kept on I
would not only be broke but so deep in the hole that I could never get out, I shut the damned
cannery up and let everything slide. I knew as soon as you were in shape you would try to get
this place back. That was natural. And you would have to come and talk to me about it. I was
sure I could convince you that I was partly human. So you see this is no surprise to me. Lord,
no! Why, I've been playing chess for two years--old Donald MacRae's knight against my queen."

He laughed and thumped MacRae on the flat of his sturdy back.

"It might have been a stalemate, at that," MacRae said.

"But it wasn't," Gower declared. "Well, I'll get something out of living, after all. I've often
thought I'd like to see a big, roomy house somewhere along these cliffs, and kids playing around.
You and Betty may have your troubles, but you're starting right. You ought to get a lot out
of life. I didn't. I made money. That's all. Poured it into a rat hole. Bessie is sitting over
on Maple Point in a big drafty house with two maids and a butler, a two-thousand-acre estate,
and her pockets full of Victory Bonds. She isn't happy, and she never can be. She never cared
for anybody but herself, not even her children, and nobody cares for her, I'm all but broke,
and I'm better off than she is. I hate to think I ever fought for her. She wasn't worth it,
MacRae. That's a hell of a thing for a man to say about a woman he lived with for over thirty
years. It was revived with somewhat greater splendour by Lord Lyndhurst,
but still it attracted little public notice.

I incline to think that it was reserved for Brougham to illustrate the ancient custom, by
the splendour of those who chose to be dutiful to the Lord Chancellor.
 All I need is a place to sleep and a comfortable chair to sit in. I don't
want to chase dollars any more. All I want is to row around the Rock and catch a few salmon
now and then and sit here and look at the sea when I'm tired. You're young, and you have all
your life before you--you and Betty. If you need money, you are pretty well able to get it
for yourself. But I'm old, and I don't want to bother."

He rambled on until Betty came down with plates and other things. The fat clams were opening
their shells on the hot rock. They put butter and seasoning on the tender meat and ate, talking
of this and that. And when the last clam had vanished, Gower stuffed his pipe and lit it with
a coal. He gathered up the plates and forks and rose to his feet.

"Good night," he said benevolently. "I'm going to the house and to bed. Don't sit out here
dreaming all night, you two."

He stumped away up the path. MacRae piled driftwood on the fire. Then he sat down with his
back against the log, and Betty snuggled beside him, in the crook of his arm. In the year 1607,
Thomas Brougham, then Lord of the Manor of Brougham, died without issue male, and the estate
was sold to one Bird, who was steward of the Clifford family; the
heir male of the Brougham family then residing at Scales Hall, in
Cumberland.

 It was enough to be together.

So they sat, side by side, their backs to the cedar log and their feet to the fire, talking
little, dreaming much, until the fluffy clouds scudding across the face of the moon came thicker
and faster and lost their snowy whiteness, until the radiance of the night was dimmed.

Across the low summit of Point Old a new sound was carried to them. And yet----I had an unquiet brain,
of moderate power, perhaps, but which had been forced and harried
and dragged into exertion every moment of my life, according to the
custom with women in the States from which I came.

Every meanest hint of a talent in me had been nursed, every taste
purged, by the rules of my father's clique of friends.

The chance of this was all over,--had been escaping since my marriage-day. Now I clearly saw the
life opening before me

. When she vanished within, blowing him a kiss from her finger
tips, MacRae cut across the Point. He laid hold of the Blanco's dinghy and drew it high to
absolute safety, then stood a minute gazing seaward, looking down on the Rock. Clouds obscured
the moon now. A chill darkness hid distant shore lines and mountain ranges which had stood
plain in the moon-glow, a darkness full of rushing, roaring wind and thundering seas. Poor
Man's Rock was a vague bulk in the gloom, forlorn and lonely, hidden under great bursts of
spray as each wave leaped and broke with a hiss and a roar.

MacRae braced himself against the southeaster. It ruffled his hair, clawed at him with strong,
invisible fingers. It shrieked its fury among the firs, stunted and leaning all awry from the
buffeting of many storms.

He took a last look behind him. The lights in Gower's house were out and the white-walled cottage
stood dim against the darkened hillside. Then MacRae, smiling to himself in the dark, set out
along the path that led to Squitty Cove.

THE END

By the author of "Big Timber"

NORTH OF FIFTY-THREE

By BERTRAND W. SINCLAIR

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

He has created the atmosphere of the frozen North with wonderful realism.--Boston Globe.

Mr. Sinclair's two characters are exceptionally well-drawn and sympathetic. His style is robust
and vigorous. His pictures of Canadian life stimulating.--New York Nation.

Mr. Sinclair sketches with bold strokes as befits a subject set amid limitless surroundings.
The book is readable and shows consistent progress in the art of novel writing.--St. Louis
Globe-Democrat. 

$1.00.

Military Dictionary: Comprising Technical Definitions, Information
on Raising and Keeping Troops, Actual Service, including Makeshift
and Improved Material, and Law, Government, Regulation, and Administration
relating to Land Forces.

The story is well written. It is rich in strong situation, romance and heart-stirring scenes,
both of the emotional and courage-stirring order. It ranks with the best of its type.--Springfield
Republican.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITTLE, BROWN & CO., Publishers

34 Beacon St., Boston.

