A LITTLE BOOK OF WESTERN VERSE

by Eugene Field

1889

TO MARY FIELD FRENCH

A dying mother gave to you
  Her child a many years ago;
How in your gracious love he grew,
  You know, dear, patient heart, you know.

The mother's child you fostered then
  Salutes you now and bids you take
These little children of his pen
  And love them for the author's sake.

To you I dedicate this book,
  And, as you read it line by line,
Upon its faults as kindly look
  As you have always looked on mine.

Tardy the offering is and weak;--
  Yet were I happy if I knew
These children had the power to speak
  My love and gratitude to you.

E. F.

Go, little book, and if an one would speak thee ill, let him bethink him that thou art the
child of one who loves thee well. 

Erskyll thought he was anticipating resistance on the part of the
Masters, and for once he approved the use of force.

Ordinarily, force was a Bad Thing, but this was a Good Cause, which justified
any means.

They entertained the committee from the Convocation for dinner, that evening. They came
aboard stiffly hostile--most understandably so, under the circumstances--and
Prince Trevannion exerted all his copious charm to thaw them out,
beginning with the pre-dinner cocktails and continuing through the
meal.

By the time they retired for coffee and brandy to the parlor where
the conference was to be held, the Lords-ex-Masters were almost friendly.

"We've

enacted the Emancipation Act," Olvir Nikkolon, who was ex officio
chairman of the committee, reported.

"Every slave on the planet must be free before the opening of the
next Midyear Feasts."

"And when will that be?"

Aditya, he knew, had a three hundred and fifty-eight day year; even
if the Midyear Feasts were just past, they were giving themselves
very little time.

In about a hundred and fifty days, Nikkolon said.

"Good heavens!" Erskyll began, indignantly.

"I should say so, myself," he put in, cutting off anything else the
new Proconsul might have said.

"You
gentlemen are allowing yourselves dangerously little time. A hundred
and fifty days will pass quite rapidly, and you have twenty million
slaves to deal with. If you start at this moment and work continuously,
you'll have a little under a second apiece for each slave."

The Lords-Master looked dismayed.

So, he was happy to observe, did Count Erskyll.

"I assume you have some system of slave registration?" he continued.

That was safe. They had a bureaucracy, and bureaucracies tend to
have registrations of practically everything. In his youth the
anniversary was generally held to be September 2, perhaps the result of a half-humorous remark
by my father that Oliver Cromwell had died September 3, and he could not reconcile this date
to the thought that it was an important anniversary to one of his children. Many years after,
when my uncle, Charles Kellogg Field, of Vermont, published the genealogy of the Field family,
the original date, September 3, was restored, and from that time my brother accepted it, although
with each recurring anniversary the controversy was gravely renewed, much to the amusement
of the family and always to his own perplexity. In November, 1856, my mother died, and, at
the breaking up of the family in St. Louis, my brother and myself, the last of six children,
were taken to Amherst, Massachusetts, by our cousin, Miss Mary F. French, who took upon herself
the care and responsibility of our bringing up. How nobly and self-sacrificingly she entered
upon and discharged those duties my brother gladly testified in the beautiful dedication of
his first published poems, "A Little Book of Western Verse," wherein he honored the "gracious
love" in which he grew, and bade her look as kindly on the faults of his pen as she had always
looked on his own. For a few years my brother attended a private school for boys in Amherst;
then, at the age of fourteen, he was intrusted to the care of Rev. James Tufts, of Monson,
one of those noble instructors of the blessed old school who are passing away from the arena
of education in America. By Mr. Tufts he was fitted for college, and from the enthusiasm of
this old scholar he caught perhaps the inspiration for the love of the classics which he carried
through life. In the fall of 1868 he entered Williams College--the choice was largely accidental--and
remained there one year. My father died in the summer of 1869, and my brother chose as his
guardian Professor John William Burgess, now of Columbia University, New York City. When Professor
Burgess, later in the summer, accepted a call to Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois, my brother
accompanied him and entered that institution, but the restlessness which was so characteristic
of him in youth asserted itself after another year and he joined me, then in my junior year
at the University of Missouri, at Columbia. It was at this institution that he finished his
education so far as it related to prescribed study.

Shortly after attaining his majority he went to Europe, remaining six months in France and
Italy. From this European trip have sprung the absurd stories which have represented him as
squandering thousands of dollars in the pursuit of pleasure. Unquestionably he had the not
unnatural extravagance which accompanies youth and a most generous disposition, for he was
lavish and open-handed all through life to an unusual degree, but at no time was he particularly
given to wild excesses, and the fact that my father's estate, which was largely realty, had
shrunk perceptibly during the panic days of 1873 was enough to make him soon reach the limit
of even moderate extravagance. CHAPTER XXX.

SOME OTHER EXAMPLES OF ELVES.

On the 25th of August, 1746, I received a letter from a very worthy
man, the curé of the parish of Walsche, a village situated in the
mountains of Vosges, in the county of Dabo, or Dasburg, in Lower Alsatia,
Diocese of Metz.

In this letter, he tells me that the 10th of June, 1740, at eight o'clock
in the morning, he being in his kitchen, with his niece and the servant,
he saw on a sudden an iron pot that was placed on the ground turn
round three or four times, without its being set in motion by any
one.

A moment after, a stone, weighing about a pound, was thrown from the
next room into the same kitchen, in presence of the same persons,
without their seeing the hand which threw it.

The next day, at nine o'clock in the morning, some panes of glass
were broken, and through these panes were thrown some stones, with
what appeared to them supernatural dexterity.

The spirit never hurt anybody, and never did anything in the night
time, but always during the day.

The curé employed the prayers marked out in the ritual to bless his
house, and thenceforth the genius broke no more panes of glass; but
he continued to throw stones at the curé's people, without hurting
them, however.

If they fetched water from the fountain, he threw stones into the
bucket; and afterwards he began to serve in the kitchen.

One day, as the servant was planting some cabbages in the garden,
he pulled them up as fast as she planted them, and laid them in a
heap.

It was in vain that she stormed, threatened, and swore in the German style;
the genius continued to play his tricks.

One day, when a bed in the garden had been dug and prepared, the spade
was found thrust two feet deep into the ground, without any trace
being seen of him who had thus stuck it in; but they observed that
on the spade was a riband, and by the spade were two pieces of two
soles, which the girl had locked up the evening before in a little
box.

Sometimes he took pleasure in displacing the earthenware and pewter,
and putting it either all round the kitchen, or in the porch, or even
in the cemetery, and always in broad daylight.

One day he filled an iron pot with wild herbs, bran, and leaves of trees,
and, having put some water in it, carried it to the ally or walk
in the garden; another time he suspended it to the pot-hook over the
fire.

The servant having broken two eggs into a little dish for the curé's
supper, the genius broke two more into it in his presence, the maid
having merely turned to get some salt.

The curé having gone to say mass, on his return found all his earthenware,
furniture, linen, bread, milk, and other things scattered about over
the house.

Sometimes the spirit would form circles on the paved floor, at one
time with stones, at another with corn or leaves, and in a moment,
before the eyes of all present, all was overturned and deranged.

Tired with these games, the
curé sent for the mayor of the place, and told him he was resolved
to quit the parsonage house.

Whilst this was passing, the curé's niece came in, and told them that the
genius had torn up the cabbages in the garden, and had put some money
in a hole in the ground.

They went there, and found things exactly as she had said. They picked up the money, which what the curé
had put away in a place not locked up; and in a moment after they
found it anew, with some liards, two by two, scattered about the
kitchen.

The agents of the Count de Linange being arrived at Walsche, went
to the curé's house, and persuaded him that it was all the effect of
a spell; they told him to take two pistols, and fire them off at
the place where he might observe there were any movements.

The genius at the same moment threw out of the pocket of one of these
officers two pieces of silver; and from that time he was no longer
perceived in the house.

The circumstances of two pistols terminating the scenes with which
the elf had disturbed the good curé, made him believe that this tormenting
imp was no other than a certain bad parishioner, whom the curé had
been obliged to send away from his parish, and who to revenge himself
had done all that we have related.

If that be the case, he had rendered himself invisible, or he had had
credit enough to send in his stead a familiar genius who puzzled
the curé for some weeks; for, if he were not bodily in this house,
what had he to fear from any pistol shot which might have been fired
at him?

And if he was there bodily, how could he render himself invisible?

I have been told several times that a monk of the Cistercian order
had a familiar genius who attended upon him, arranged his chamber,
and prepared everything ready for him when he was coming back from
the country.

They were so accustomed to this, that they expected him home by these
signs, and he always arrived. It is affirmed of another monk of the
same order that he had a familiar spirit, who warned him, not only
of what passed in the house, but also of what happened out of it; and
one day he was awakened three times, and warned that some monks were
quarreling, and were ready to come to blows; he ran to the spot, and
put an end to the dispute.

St. Sulpicius Severus[284] relates that St. Martin often had conversations
with the Holy Virgin, and other saints, and even with the demons and
false gods of paganism; he talked with them, and learned from them many secret
things. One day, when a council was being held at Nîmes, where he
had not thought proper to be present, but the decisions of which he
desired to know, being in a boat with St. Sulpicius, but apart from
others, as usual with him, an angel appeared, and informed him what
had passed in this assembly of bishops.

Inquiry was made as to the day and hour when the council was held, and it was found to be at the same
hour at which the angel had appeared to Martin.

We have been told several times that a young ecclesiastic, in a seminary
at Paris, had a genius who waited upon him, and arranged his room
and his clothes.

  
    
  
    
One day, when the superior was passing by the chamber of the seminarist, he heard
him talking with some one; he entered, and asked who he was conversing
with.

The youth affirmed
that there was no one in his room, and, in fact, the superior could
neither see nor discover any one there.

Nevertheless, as he had heard their conversation, the young man owned that for some years he
had been attended by a familiar genius, who rendered him every service that a domestic could
have done, and had promised him great advantages in the ecclesiastical
profession.

The superior pressed him to give some proofs of what he said.

He ordered the genius to set a chair for the superior; the genius obeyed.
Information of this was sent to the archbishop, who did not think proper
to give it publicity.

The young clerk was sent away, and this singular adventure was buried
in silence.

Bodin[285] speaks of a person of his acquaintance who was still living
at the time he wrote, which was in 1588. This person had a familiar
who from the age of thirty-seven had given him good advice respecting his
conduct, sometimes to correct his faults, sometimes to make him practice
virtue, or to assist him; resolving the difficulties which he might
find in reading holy books, or giving him good counsel upon his own
affairs.

He usually rapped at his door at three or four o'clock in the morning
to awaken him; and as that person mistrusted all these things, fearing
that it might be an evil angel, the spirit showed himself in broad
day, striking gently on a glass bowl, and then upon a bench.

When he desired to do anything good and useful, the spirit touched his
right ear; but if it was anything wrong and dangerous, he touched
his left ear; so that from that time nothing occurred to him of which
he was not warned beforehand.

Sometimes he heard his voice; and one day, when he found his life in imminent danger, he saw his genius, under
the form of a child of extraordinary beauty, who saved him from it.

William, Bishop of Paris,[286] says that he knew a rope-dancer who had
a familiar spirit which played and joked with him, and prevented
him from sleeping, throwing something against the wall, dragging off
the bed-clothes, or pulling him about when he was in bed.

We know by the account of a very sensible person that it has happened to him in the open country,
and in the day time, to feel his cloak and boots pulled at, and his
hat thrown down; then he heard the bursts of laughter and the voice
of a person deceased and well known to him, who seemed to rejoice
at it.

The discovery of things hidden or unknown, which is made in dreams,
or otherwise, can hardly be ascribed to anything but to familiar spirits.

A man
who did not know a word of Greek came to M. de Saumaise, senior, a counselor of the Parliament of
Dijon, and showed him these words, which he had heard in the night,
as he slept, and which he wrote down in French characters on awaking:
"Apithi ouc osphraine tén sén apsychian." He asked him what that
meant.

M. de Saumaise told him it meant, "Save yourself; do you not perceive the death with which you
are threatened?"

Upon
this hint, the man removed, and left his house, which fell down the
following night.[287]

The same story is related, with a little difference, by another author, who
says that the circumstance happened at Paris;[288] that the genius
spoke in Syriac, and that M. de Saumaise being consulted, replied,
"Go out of your house, for it will fall in ruins to-day, at nine o'clock
in the evening."

It is but too much the custom in reciting stories of this kind to
add a few circumstances by way of embellishment.

Gassendi, in the Life of M. Peiresch, relates that M. Peiresch, going one day
to Nismes, with one of his friends, named M. Rainier, the latter, having
heard Peiresch talking in his sleep in the night, waked him, and
asked him what he said.

Peiresch answered him, "I dreamed that, being at Nismes, a jeweler had offered me a medal of Julius Cæsar,
for which he asked four crowns, and as I was going to count him down
his money, you waked me, to my great regret." They arrived at Nismes,
and going about the town, Peiresch recognized the goldsmith whom
he had seen in his dream; and on his asking him if he had nothing
curious, the goldsmith told him he had a gold medal, or coin, of Julius
Cæsar.

Peiresch asked him how much he esteemed it worth; he replied, four crowns. Peiresch paid them, and
was delighted to see his dream so happily accomplished.

Here is a dream much more singular than the preceding, although a little in the same style.[289] A learned man
of Dijon, after having wearied himself all day with an important
passage in a Greek poet, without being able to comprehend it at all,
went to bed thinking of this difficulty.

During his sleep, his genius transported him in spirit to Stockholm,
introduced him into the palace of Queen Christina, conducted him
into the library, and showed him a small volume, which was precisely
what he sought.

He opened it, read in it ten or twelve Greek verses, which absolutely
cleared up the difficulty which had so long beset him; he awoke, and
wrote down the verses he had seen at Stockholm.

On the morrow, he wrote to M. Descartes, who was then in Sweden, and
begged of him to look in such a place, and in such a division of
the library, if the book, of which he sent him the description, were
there, and if the Greek verses which he sent him were to be read in
it.

M. Descartes replied that he had found the book in question; and also
the verses he had sent were in the place he pointed out; that one
of his friends had promised him a copy of that work, and he would
send it him by the first opportunity.

We have already said something of the spirit, or familiar genius of
Socrates, which prevented him from doing certain things, but did
not lead him to do others.

It is asserted[290] that, after the defeat of the Athenian army, commanded
by Laches, Socrates, flying like the others, with this Athenian general,
and being arrived at a spot where several roads met, Socrates would
not follow the road taken by the other fugitives; and when they asked
him the reason, he replied, because his genius drew him away from it.

The event justified his foresight. All those who had taken the other road were either killed or
made prisoners by the enemy's cavalry.

It is doubtful whether the elves, of which so many things are related,
are good or bad spirits; for the faith of the church admits nothing
between these two kinds of genii.

Every genius is either good or bad; but as there are in heaven many mansions, as the Gospel says,[291]
and as there are among the blessed, various degrees of glory, differing from each other, so we
may believe that there are in hell various degrees of pain and punishment
for the damned and the demons.

But are they not rather magicians, who render themselves invisible,
and divert themselves in disquieting the living?

Why do they attach themselves to certain spots, and certain persons,
rather than to others?

Why do they make themselves perceptible only during a certain time, and that sometimes a short
space?

I could willingly conclude that what is said of them is mere fancy
and prejudice; but their reality has been so often experienced by
the discourse they have held, and the actions they have performed
in the presence of many wise and enlightened persons, that I cannot
persuade myself that among the great number of stories related of
them there are not at least some of them true.

It may be remarked that these elves never lead one to anything good, to prayer,
or piety, to the love of God, or to godly and serious actions. If they
do no other harm, they leave hurtful doubts about the punishments of
the damned, on the efficacy of prayer and exorcisms; if they hurt
not those men or animals which are found on the spot where they may
be perceived, it is because God sets bounds to their malice and power.

The demon has a thousand ways of deceiving us.

All those to whom these genii attach themselves have a horror of them,
mistrust and fear them; and it rarely happens that these familiar demons
do not lead them to a dangerous end, unless they deliver themselves
from them by grave acts of religion and penance.

There is the story of a spirit, "which," says he who wrote it to me, "I no more doubt the truth of than
if I had been a witness of it."

Count Despilliers, the father, being a young man, and captain of cuirassiers, was in winter quarters
in Flanders. One of his men came to him one day to beg that he would
change his landlord, saying that every night there came into his
bed-room a spirit, which would not allow him to sleep.

The Count Despilliers sent him away, and laughed at his simplicity.

Some days after, the same horseman came back and made the same request to
him; the only reply of the captain would have been a volley of blows
with a stick, had not the soldier avoided them by a prompt flight.

At last, he returned a third time to the charge, and protested to his captain
that he could bear it no longer, and should be obliged to desert
if his lodgings were not changed.

Despilliers, who knew the soldier to be brave and reasonable, said to him, with
an oath, "I will go this night and sleep with you, and see what is
the matter."

At ten o'clock in the evening, the captain repaired to his soldier's
lodging, and having laid his pistols ready primed upon the table,
he lay down in his clothes, his sword by his side, with his soldier,
in a bed without curtains.

About midnight he heard something which came into the room, and in
a moment turned the bed upside down, covering the captain and the
soldier with the mattress and paillasse.

Despilliers had great
trouble to disengage himself and find again his sword and pistols,
and he returned home much confounded.

The horse-soldier had a new lodging the very next day, and slept
quietly in the house of his new host.

M. Despilliers related this adventure to any one who would listen to
it.

He was an intrepid man, who had never known what it was to fall back
before danger.

He died field-marshal of the armies of the Emperor Charles VI. and
governor of the fortress of Ségedin.

His son has confirmed this adventure to me within a short time, as having heard
it from his father.

The person who writes to me adds: "I doubt not that spirits sometimes return;
but I have found myself in a great many places which it was said
they haunted. I have even tried several times to see them, but I have
never seen any. I found myself once with more than four thousand persons,
who all said they saw the spirit; I was the only one in the assembly
who saw nothing."

So writes me a very worthy officer, this year, 1745, in the same
letter wherein he relates the affair of M. Despilliers.

Footnotes:

[284] St. Sulpit. Sever. Dialog. ii. c. 14, 15.

[285] Bodin Demonomania, lib. ii. c. 2.

[286] Guillelm. Paris, 2 Part. quæst. 2, c. 8.

[287] Grot. Epist. Part. ii. Ep. 405.

[288] They affirm that it happened at Dijon, in the family of the
MM. Surmin, in which a constant tradition has perpetuated the memory
of the circumstance.

[289] Continuation
of the Count de Gabalis, at the Hague, 1708, p. 55.

[290] Cicero, de Divinat. lib. i.

[291] John xiv. 2.

CHAPTER XXXI.

SPIRITS THAT KEEP WATCH OVER TREASURE.

Everybody acknowledges that there is an infinity of riches buried in the
earth, or lost under the waters by shipwrecks; they fancy that the
demon, whom they look upon as the god of riches, the god Mammon,
the Pluto of the pagans, is the depositary, or at least the guardian,
of these treasures.

We know
also that the ancients very often interred vast treasures in the
tombs of the dead; either that the dead might make use of them in
the other world, or that their souls might keep guard over them in
those gloomy places. Job seems to make allusion to this ancient custom,
when he says,[293] "Would to God I had never been born: I should now
sleep with the kings and great ones of the earth, who built themselves
solitary places; like unto those who seek for treasure, and are rejoiced
when they find a tomb;" doubtless because they hope to find great
riches therein.

There were very precious things in the tomb of Cyrus.

That the poetic instinct was always strong within him there has never been room to question,
but, perhaps, for the reasons before assigned, it was tardy in making its way outward. For
years his mind lay fallow and receptive, awaiting the occasion which should develop the true
inspiration of the poet. He was accustomed to speak of himself, and too modestly, as merely
a versifier, but his own experience should have contradicted this estimate, for his first efforts
at verse were singularly halting in mechanical construction, and he was well past his twenty-fifth
year before he gave to the world any verse worthy the name. What might be called the "curse
of comedy" was on him, and it was not until he threw off that yoke and gave expression to the
better and the sweeter thoughts within him that, as with Bion, "the voice of song flowed freely
from the heart." It seems strange that a man who became a master of the art of mechanism in
verse should have been deficient in this particular at a period comparatively late, but it
merely illustrates the theory of gradual development and marks the phases of life through which,
with his character of many sides, he was compelled to pass. He was nearly thirty when he wrote
"Christmas Treasures," the first poem he deemed worthy, and very properly, of preservation,
and the publication of this tender commemoration of the death of a child opened the springs
of sentiment and love for childhood destined never to run dry while life endured.

In journalism he became immediately successful, not so much for adaptability to the treadmill
of that calling as for the brightness and distinctive character of his writing. He easily established
a reputation as a humorist, and while he fairly deserved the title he often regretted that
he could not entirely shake it off. His powers of perception were phenomenally keen, and he
detected the peculiarities of people with whom he was thrown in contact almost at a glance,
while his gift of mimicry was such that after a minute's interview he could burlesque the victim
to the life, even emphasizing the small details which had been apparently too minute to attract
the special notice of those who were acquaintances of years' standing. This faculty he carried
into his writing, and it proved immensely valuable, for, with his quick appreciation of the
ludicrous and his power of delineating personal peculiarities his sketches were remarkable
for their resemblances even when he was indulging apparently in the wildest flights of imagination.
It is to be regretted that much of his newspaper work, covering a period of twenty years, was
necessarily so full of purely local color that its brilliancy could not be generally appreciated.
For it is as if an artist had painted a wondrous picture, clever enough in the general view,
but full of a significance hidden to the world.

Equally facile was he in the way of adaptation. He could write a hoax worthy of Poe, and one
of his humors of imagination was sufficiently subtle and successful to excite comment in Europe
and America, and to call for an explanation and denial from a distinguished Englishman. He
lived in Denver only a few weeks when he was writing verse in miners' dialect which has been
rightly placed at the head of that style of composition. No matter where he wandered, he speedily
became imbued with the spirit of his surroundings, and his quickly and accurately gathered
impressions found vent in his pen, whether he was in "St. Martin's Lane" in London, with "Mynheer
Von Der Bloom" in Amsterdam, or on the "Schnellest Zug" from Hanover to Leipzig.

At the time of my brother's arrival in Chicago, in 1883--he was then in his thirty-fourth year--he
had performed an immense amount of newspaper work, but had done little or nothing of permanent
value or with any real literary significance. But despite the fact that he had lived up to
that time in the smaller cities he had a large number of acquaintances and a certain following
in the journalistic and artistic world, of which from the very moment of his entrance into
journalism he never had been deprived. His immense fund of good humor, his powers as a story-teller,
his admirable equipment as an entertainer, and the wholehearted way with which he threw himself
into life and the pleasures of living attracted men to him and kept him the centre of the multitude
that prized his fascinating companionship. His fellows in journalism furthermore had been quick
to recognize his talents, and no man was more widely "copied," as the technical expression
goes. His early years in Chicago did not differ materially from those of the previous decade,
but the enlarged scope gave greater play to his fancy and more opportunity for his talents
as a master of satire. The publication of "The Denver Primer" and "Culture's Garland," while
adding to his reputation as a humorist, happily did not satisfy him. He was now past the age
of thirty-five, and a great psychical revolution was coming on. Though still on the sunny side
of middle life, he was wearying of the cup of pleasure he had drunk so joyously, and was drawing
away from the multitude and toward the companionship of those who loved books and bookish things,
and who could sympathize with him in the aspirations for the better work, the consciousness
of which had dawned. It was now that he began to apply himself diligently to the preparation
for higher effort, and it is to the credit of journalism, which has so many sins to answer
for, that in this he was encouraged beyond the usual fate of men who become slaves to that
calling. And yet, though from this time he was privileged to be regarded one of the sweetest
singers in American literature, and incomparably the noblest bard of childhood, though the
grind of journalism was measurably taken from him, he chafed under the conviction that he was
condemned to mingle the prosaic and the practical with the fanciful and the ideal, and that,
having given hostages to fortune, he must conform even in a measure to the requirements of
a position too lucrative to be cast aside. Now, it was not thus under the new reign, and the chief
of police sincerely deplored it. What! no banishment for life for other crimes than those against
social order! What! political exiles returning from Tobolsk, from
Yakutsk, from Irkutsk!

In truth, the chief of police, accustomed to the despotic sentences
of the ukase which formerly never pardoned, could not understand this
mode of governing.

But he was silent, waiting until the Czar should interrogate him
further. The questions were not long in coming. He was too severe with himself to understand
that his comparative tardiness in arriving at the earnest, thoughtful stage of lifework was
the inexorable law of gradual development which must govern the career of a man of his temperament,
with his exuberant vitality and his showy talents. It was a serious mistake, but it was not
the less a noble one. And now also the influences of home crept a little closer into his heart.
His family life had not been without its tragedies of bereavement, and the death of his oldest
boy in Germany had drawn him even nearer to the children who were growing up around him. 

It would give me little pleasure to recount, and the reader, in all likelihood, as little to hear,
the details of my life among such associates. They are the passages of my history most painful to recall,
and least worthy of being remembered; nor can I even yet write without shame the confession, how rapidly
their habits became my own. Eugene's teachings had prepared me, in a manner, for their lessons. His
skepticism extending to every thing and every one, had made me distrustful
of all friendship, and suspicious of whatever appeared a kindness.

Vulgar association, and daily intimacy with coarsely-minded men, soon
finished what he had begun; and in less time than it took me to break
my troop-horse to regimental drill, I had been myself "broke in" to
every vice and abandoned habit of my companions.

It was not in my nature to do things by halves; and thus I became,
and in a brief space too, the most inveterate Tapageur of the whole
regiment.

There was not a wild prank or plot in which I was not foremost, not
a breach of the discipline unaccompanied by my name or presence,
and more than half the time of our march to meet the enemy, I passed
in double irons under the guard of the Provost-marshal.

It was at this pleasant stage of my education that our brigade arrived
in Strasbourg, as part of the corps d'armée under the command of General
Moreau.

He had just succeeded to the command on the dismissal of Pichegru,
and found the army not only dispirited by the defeats of the past
campaign, but in a state of rudest indiscipline and disorganization.

If left to himself, he would have trusted much to time and circumstances for the reform of abuses that had
been the growth of many months long.

But Regnier, the second in command, was made of "different stuff;" he was
a harsh and stern disciplinarian, who rarely forgave a first, never
a second offense, and who deeming the Salle de Police as an incumbrance
to an army on service, which, besides, required a guard of picked
men, that might be better employed elsewhere, usually gave the preference
to the shorter sentence of "four spaces and a fusillade."

Nor was he particular in the classification of those crimes he thus
expiated: from the most trivial excess to the wildest scheme of insubordination,
all came under the one category.

More than once, as
we drew near to Strasbourg, I heard the project of a mutiny discussed, day
after day.

Some one or other would denounce the "scelerat Regnier," and proclaim
his readiness to be the executioner; but the closer we drew to head-quarters,
the more hushed and subdued became these mutterings, till at last
they ceased altogether; and a dark and forboding dread succeeded to
all our late boastings and denunciations.

This at first surprised and then utterly disgusted me with my companions.

Brave as they were before the enemy, had they no courage for their
own countrymen?

Was all their valor the offspring of security, or could they only be rebellious when
the penalty had no terrors for them? Alas!

I was very young, and did not then know that men are never strong
against the right, and that a bad cause is always a weak one.

It was about the
middle of June when we reached Strasbourg, where now about forty thousand
troops were assembled. I shall not readily forget the mingled astonishment
and disappointment our appearance excited as the regiment entered
the town.

The Tapageurs, so celebrated for all their terrible excesses and insubordination,
were seen to be a fine corps of soldier-like fellows, their horses in high condition,
their equipments and arms in the very best order.

Neither did our conduct at all tally with the reputation that preceded
us. All was orderly and regular in the several billets; the parade
was particularly observed; not a man late at the night muster. What
was the cause of this sudden and remarkable change?

Some said we were marching against the enemy;
but the real explanation lay in a few words of a general order read
to us by our colonel the day before we entered the city:
"The 9th Hussars have obtained the unworthy reputation of being an
ill-disciplined and ill-conducted regiment, relying upon their soldier-like
qualities in face of the enemy to cover the disgrace of-their misconduct
in quarters. Who shall doubt that the smile of supreme peace and rest which lingered on his face
after that noble spirit had departed spoke for the victory he had won, for the hope and belief
that had been justified, and for the happiness he had gained?

To have been with my brother in the last year of his life, to have seen the sweetening of a
character already lovable to an unusual degree, to know now that in his unconscious preparation
for the life beyond he was drawing closer to those he loved and who loved him, this is the
tenderest memory, the most precious heritage. Not to have seen him in that year is never to
realize the full beauty of his nature, the complete development of his nobler self, the perfect
abandonment of all that might have been ungenerous and intemperate in one even less conscious
of the weakness of mortality. He would say when chided for public expression of kind words
to those not wholly deserving, that he had felt the sting of harshness and ungraciousness,
and never again would he use his power to inflict suffering or wound the feelings of man or
child. Who is there to wonder, then, that the love of all went out to him, and that the other
triumphs of his life were as nothing in comparison with the grasp he maintained on popular
affection? The day after his death a lady was purchasing flowers to send in sympathy for the
mourning family, when she was approached by a poorly-clad little girl who timidly asked what
she was going to do with so many roses. When she replied that she intended sending them to
Mr. Field, the little one said that she wanted so much to send Mr. Field a rose, adding pathetically
that she had no money. Deeply touched by the child's sorrowful earnestness the lady picked
out a yellow rose and gave it to her, and when the coffin was lowered to the grave a wealth
of wreaths and designs was strewn around to mark the spot, but down below the hand of the silent
poet held only a little yellow rose, the tribute of a child who did not know him in life, but
in whose heart nestled the love his songs had awakened and the magnetism of his great humanity
had stirred.

A few hours after his spirit had gone a crippled boy came to the house and begged permission
to go to the chamber. The wish was granted, and the boy hobbled to the bedside. Who he was,
and in what manner my brother had befriended him, none of the family knew, but as he painfully
picked his way down stairs the tears were streaming over his face, and the onlookers forgot
their own sorrow in contemplation of his grief. The morning of the funeral, while the family
stood around the coffin, the letter-carrier at Buena Park came into the room, and laying a
bunch of letters at the foot of the bier said reverently: "There is your last mail, Mr. Field."
Then turning with tears in his eyes, as if apologizing for an intrusion, he added: "He was
always good to me and I loved him." 

It was useless to attempt to breed fine cattle when all were herded
together.

The breed deteriorated, and both cattle and sheep were undersized
and poor.

A full-grown ox was hardly larger than a good-sized calf of the present time. Moreover, there were
no potatoes or turnips, and few farmers grew clover or other grasses
for winter fodder.

It was impossible, therefore, to keep many cattle through the winter;
most of the animals were killed off in the autumn and salted down
for the long winter months when it was impossible to secure fresh
meat.

[Sidenote: Peasant Life on the Manor]

Crude farm-methods and the heavy dues exacted by the lord [Footnote:
In addition to the dues paid to the lay lord, the peasants were under
obligation to make a regular contribution to the church, which was
called the "tithe" and amounted to a share, less than a tenth, of
the annual crops.] of the manor must have left the poor man little
for himself.

Compared with the comfort of the farmer today, the poverty of sixteenth-century
peasants must have been inexpressibly distressful.

How keenly the cold pierced the dark huts of the poorest, is hard
for us to imagine.

The winter diet of salt meat, the lack of vegetables, the chronic
filth and squalor, and the sorry ignorance of all laws of health opened
the way to disease and contagion.

And if the crops failed, famine was added to plague.

On the other hand we must not forget that the tenement-houses of our
great cities have been crowded in the nineteenth century with people
more miserable than ever was serf of the middle ages.

                  

The serf, at any rate, had the open air instead of a factory in which
to work. When times were good, he had grain and meat in plenty,
and possibly wine or cider, and he hardly envied the tapestried chambers,
the bejeweled clothes, and the spiced foods of the nobility, for he
looked upon them as belonging to a different world.

In one place nobleman and peasant met on a common footing--in the village
church. There, on Sundays and feast-days, they came together as Christians
to hear Mass; and afterwards, perhaps, holiday games and dancing
on the green, benignantly patronized by the lord's family, helped
the common folk to forget their labors.

The village priest, [Footnote: Usually very different from the higher clergy,
who had large landed estates of their own, the parish priests had but
modest incomes from the tithes of their parishioners and frequently
eked out a living by toiling on allotted patches of ground. The monks
too were ordinarily poor, although the monastery might be wealthy, and
they likewise often tilled the fields.] himself often of humble birth,
though the most learned man on the manor, was at once the friend and
benefactor of the poor and the spiritual director of the lord.

Occasionally a visit of the bishop to administer confirmation to the
children, afforded an opportunity for gayety and universal festivity.

[Sidenote: Rural Isolation and Conservatism]

At other times there was little to disturb the monotony of village
life and little to remind it of the outside world, except when a gossiping
peddler chanced along, or when the squire rode away to court or to
war.

Intercourse with other villages was unnecessary, unless there were no
blacksmith or miller on the spot. The roads were poor and in wet weather
impassable. Travel was largely on horseback, and what few commodities were
carried from place to place were transported by pack- horses. Only a
few old soldiers, and possibly a priest, had traveled very much;
they were the only geographies and the only books of travel which
the village possessed, for few peasants could read or write.

Self-sufficient and secluded from the outer world, the rural village
went on treasuring its traditions, keeping its old customs, century
after century.

The country instinctively distrusted all novelties; it always preferred
old ways to new; it was heartily conservative.

Country-folk did not
discover America.

It was the enterprise of the cities, with their growing
industries and commerce, which brought about the Commercial Revolution;
and to the development of commerce, industry, and the towns, we now must
turn our attention.

TOWNS ON THE EVE OF THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION

[Sidenote: Trade and the Towns ]

Except for the wealthy Italian city-states and a few other cities which
traced their history back to Roman times, most European towns, it must
be remembered, dated only from the later middle ages. At first there
was little excuse for their existence except to sell to farmers salt, fish,
iron, and a few plows. But with the increase of commerce, which,
as we shall see, especially marked the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth
centuries, more merchants traveled through the country, ways of spending
money multiplied, and the little agricultural villages learned to
look on the town as the place to buy not only luxuries but such tools,
clothing, and shoes as could be manufactured more conveniently by
skillful town artisans than by clumsy rustics.

The towns, moreover, became exchanges where surplus farm products could be marketed, where wine
could be bartered for wool, or wheat for flax.

And as the towns grew in size, the prosperous citizens proved to
be the best customers for foreign luxuries, and foreign trade grew
apace.

Town, trade, and industry thus worked together: trade stimulated industry,
industry assisted trade, and the town profited by both.

By the sixteenth century the towns had grown out of their infancy and were maintaining
a great measure of political and economic freedom.

[Sidenote: Freedom of the Towns.] [Sidenote: Town Charters]

Originally many a town had belonged to some nobleman's extensive manor
and its inhabitants had been under much the same servile obligations
to the lord as were the strictly rural serfs.

But with the lapse of time and the growth of the towns, the townsmen or burghers
had begun a struggle for freedom from their feudal lords. They did
not want to pay servile dues to a baron, but preferred to substitute
a fixed annual payment for individual obligations; they besought the
right to manage their market; they wished to have cases at law tried
in a court of their own rather than in the feudal court over which the
nobleman presided; and they demanded the right to pay all taxes in
a lump sum for the town, themselves assessing and collecting the share
of each citizen.

These concessions they eventually had won, and each city had its
charter, in which its privileges were enumerated and recognized by
the authority of the nobleman, or of the king, to whom the city owed
allegiance.

In England these charters had been acquired generally by merchant gilds,
upon payment of a substantial sum to the nobleman; in France frequently the
townsmen had formed associations, called communes, and had rebelled successfully
against their feudal lords; in Germany the cities had leagued together
for mutual protection and for the acquisition of common privileges.

Other
towns, formerly founded by bishops, abbots, or counts, had received
charters at the very outset.

[Sidenote: Merchant Gilds]

A peculiar outgrowth of the need for protection against oppressive
feudal lords, as well as against thieves, swindlers, and dishonest
workmen, had been the typically urban organization known as the merchant
gild or the merchants' company.

In the year 1500 the merchant gilds were everywhere on the decline,
but they still preserved many of their earlier and more glorious
traditions.

At the time of their greatest importance they had embraced merchants,
butchers, bakers, and candlestick-makers: in fact, all who bought
or sold in the town were included in the gild.

And the merchant gild had then possessed the widest functions.

[Sidenote: Earlier Functions of the Merchant Gild.] [Sidenote: Social]

Its
social and religious functions, inherited from much earlier bodies,
consisted in paying some special honor to a patron saint, in giving
aid to members in sickness or misfortune, attending funerals, and
also in the more enjoyable meetings when the freely flowing bowl enlivened
the transaction of gild business.

[Sidenote:
Protective]

As a protective organization, the gild had been particularly effective.
Backed by the combined forces of all the gildsmen, it was able to assert itself
against the lord who claimed manorial rights over the town, and to
insist that a runaway serf who had lived in the town for a year and
a day should not be dragged back to perform his servile labor on the
manor, but should be recognized as a freeman.

The protection of the gild was accorded also to townsmen on their
travels.

In those days all strangers were regarded as suspicious persons,
and not infrequently when a merchant of the gild traveled to another
town he would be set upon and robbed or cast into prison.

In such cases it was necessary for the gild to ransom the imprisoned "brother" and, if possible, to punish the persons
who had done the injury, so that thereafter the liberties of the
gild members would be respected. That the business of the gild might
be increased, it was often desirable to enter into special arrangements
with neighboring cities whereby the rights, lives, and properties
of gildsmen were guaranteed; and the gild as a whole was responsible
for the debts of any of its members.

[Sidenote: Regulative]

The most important duty of the gild had been the regulation of the
home market.

Burdensome restrictions were laid upon the stranger who attempted
to utilize the advantages of the market without sharing the expense
of maintenance.

No goods were allowed to be carried away from the city if the townsmen
wished to buy; and a tax, called in France the octroi, was levied
on goods brought into the town. [Footnote: The octroi is still collected
in Paris.] Moreover, a conviction prevailed that the gild was morally
bound to enforce honest straightforward methods of business; and the
"wardens" appointed by the gild to supervise the market endeavored
to prevent, as dishonest practices, "forestalling"

(buying outside of the regular market), "engrossing"

(cornering the market), [Footnote: The idea that "combinations in
restraint of trade" are wrong quite possibly goes back to this abhorrence
of engrossing.] and "regrating"

(retailing at higher than market price). The dishonest green grocer was
not allowed to use a peck-measure with false bottom, for weighing
and measuring were done by officials.

Cheats were fined heavily and, if they persisted in their evil ways, they might be expelled from the gild.

These
merchant gilds, with their social, protective, and regulative functions,
had first begun to be important in the eleventh century.

In England, where their growth was most rapid, 82 out of the total of 102 towns had merchant gilds
by the end of the thirteenth century. [Footnote: Several important places,
such as London, Colchester, and Norwich, belonged to the small minority without merchant
gilds.] On the Continent many towns, especially in Germany, had quite different
arrangements, and where merchant gilds existed, they were often exclusive and
selfish groups of merchants in a single branch of business.

  

  [Sidenote: Decline of Merchant Guilds]

  With the expansion of trade and industry in
the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries the rule of
  the old merchant gilds, instead of keeping pace with the times, became
oppressive, limited, or merely nominal.

  

  
Where the merchant gilds became oppressive oligarchical associations,
as they did in Germany and elsewhere on the Continent, they lost their power
by the revolt of the more democratic "craft gilds." In England specialized control
of industry and trade by craft gilds, journeymen's gilds, and dealers'
associations gradually took the place of the general supervision of
the older merchant gild.

After suffering the loss of its vital functions, the merchant gild by the sixteenth
century either quietly succumbed or lived on with power in a limited
branch of trade, or continued as an honorary organization with occasional
feasts, or, and this was especially true in England, it became practically
identical with the town corporation, from which originally it had
been distinct.

  

  

[Sidenote:
Industry: the Craft Guilds]
  
Alongside of the merchant gilds, which had been associated with the growth
of commerce and the rise of towns, were other guilds connected with the growth
of industry, which retained their importance long after 1500. These were
the craft gilds.

  

  

[Footnote: The craft gild was also called a company, or a mistery,
or metier (French), or Zunft (German).] Springing into prominence
in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, the craft gild sometimes,
as in Germany, voiced a popular revolt against corrupt and oligarchical
merchant gilds, and sometimes most frequently so in England--worked
quite harmoniously with the merchant gild, to which its own members
belonged.

In common with the merchant gild, the craft gild had religious and social
aspects, and like the merchant gild it insisted on righteous dealings; but
unlike the merchant gild it was composed of men in a single industry, and it
controlled in detail the manufacture as well as the marketing of
commodities. There were bakers' gilds, brewers' gilds, smiths' gilds,
saddlers' gilds, shoemakers' gilds, weavers' gilds, tailors' gilds,
tanners' gilds, even gilds of masters of arts who constituted the
teaching staff of colleges and universities.

  

When to-day we speak of a boy "serving his apprenticeship" in a trade,
we seldom reflect that the expression is derived from a practice of
the medieval craft gilds, a practice which survived after the gilds
were extinct.

Apprenticeship was designed to make sure that recruits to the trade were
properly trained. The apprentice was usually selected as a boy by a master-workman
and indentured--that is, bound to work several years without wages, while
living at the master's house. After the expiration of this period of apprenticeship,
during which he had learned his trade thoroughly, the youth became a "journeyman,"
and worked for wages, until he should finally receive admission to
the gild as a master, with the right to set up his own little shop,
with apprentices and journeymen of his own, and to sell his wares
directly to those who used them.

  

  

This restriction of membership was not
  the only way in which the trade was supervised.
The gild had rules specifying the quality of materials to be used
and often, likewise, the methods of manufacture; it might prohibit
night-work, and it usually fixed a "fair price" at which goods were
to be sold.

By means of such provisions, enforced by wardens or inspectors, the gild
not only perpetuated the "good old way" of doing things, but guaranteed
to the purchaser a thoroughly good article at a fair price.

[Sidenote: Partial Decay of Craft Gilds]

By the opening of the sixteenth century the craft gilds, though not
so weakened as the merchant gilds, were suffering from various internal
diseases which sapped their vitality.

  

  
They tended to
  
become exclusive and to direct their power and affluence in hereditary
grooves. They steadily raised their entrance fees and qualifications. Struggles
between gilds in allied trades, such as spinning, weaving, fulling, and dyeing,
often resulted in the reduction of several gilds to a dependent position.
The regulation of the processes of manufacture, once designed to keep
up the standard of skill, came in time to be a powerful hindrance
to technical improvements; and in the method as well as in the amount
of his work, the enterprising master found himself handicapped.

  

  Even the old conscientiousness often gave
way to greed, until in many places inferior
  workmanship received the approval of the gild.

Many
craft gilds exhibited in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries a tendency
to split somewhat along the present lines of capital and labor. On the one hand
the old gild organization would be usurped and controlled by the
wealthier master-workmen, called "livery men," because they wore rich
uniforms, or a class of dealers would arise and organize a "merchants'
company" to conduct a wholesale business in the products of a particular
industry.

Thus the rich drapers sold all the cloth, but did not help to make it. On the other hand
it became increasingly difficult for journeymen and apprentices to rise to
the station of masters; oftentimes they remained wage-earners for
life.

In order to better their condition they formed new associations, which
in England were called journeymen's or yeomen's companies. These new
organizations were symptomatic of injustice but otherwise unimportant.
The craft gilds, with all their imperfections, were to continue in
power awhile longer, slowly giving away as new trades arose outside
of their control, gradually succumbing in competition with capitalists
who refused to be bound by gild rules and who were to evolve a new
"domestic system," [Footnote: See Vol.

  

  II, ch xviii.] and slowly suffering diminution
of prestige through royal interference.

[Sidenote:
  Life in the Towns]

In the year 1500 the European towns displayed little uniformity in
government or in the amount of liberty they possessed.

Some were petty republics subject only in a very vague way to an extraneous
potentate; some merely paid annual tribute to a lord; some were administered
by officers of a king or feudal magnate; others were controlled by
oligarchical commercial associations.

But of the general appearance and life of sixteenth-century towns,
it is possible to secure a more uniform notion.

  

  It must be borne in mind that the towns
were comparatively small, for the great bulk of people still lived in
  the country. A town of 5000 inhabitants was then
accounted large; and even the largest places, like Nuremberg, Strassburg,
London, Paris, and Bruges, would have been only small cities in
our eyes. The approach to an ordinary city of the time lay through
suburbs, farms, and garden-plots, for the townsman still supplemented
industry with small-scale agriculture.

Usually the town itself was inclosed by strong walls, and admission
was to be gained only by passing through the gates, where one might
be accosted by soldiers and forced to pay toll.

Inside the walls were clustered houses of every description. Rising from the midst
of tumble-down dwellings might stand a magnificent cathedral, town-hall, or
gild building. Here and there a prosperous merchant would have his luxurious
home, built in what we now call the Gothic style, with pointed windows
and gables, and, to save space in a walled town, with the second story projecting out
over the street.

  

  The streets were usually in deplorable condition.
There might be one or two broad highways, but the rest
  were mere alleys, devious, dark, and dirty. Often
their narrowness made them impassable for wagons. In places the pedestrian
waded gallantly through mud and garbage; pigs grunted ponderously as he
pushed them aside; chickens ran under his feet; and occasionally
a dead dog obstructed the way.

There were no sidewalks, and only the main thoroughfares were paved. Dirt
and filth and refuse were ordinarily disposed of only when a heaven-sent
rain washed them down the open gutters constructed along the middle,
or on each side, of a street.

Not only was there no general sewerage for the town, but there was likewise
no public water supply.

  In many of the garden plots at the rear of the low-roofed dwellings
were dug wells which provided water for the family; and the visitor,
before he left the town, would be likely to meet with water-sellers
calling out their ware.

  

  To guard against the danger of fires, each municipality
encouraged its citizens to build their houses of stone and to keep a tub full of
water before every building; and in each district a special official was equipped
with a proper hook and cord for pulling down houses on fire. At night
respectable town-life was practically at a standstill: the gates
were shut; the curfew sounded; no street-lamps dispelled the darkness,
except possibly an occasional lantern which an altruistic or festive
townsman might hang in his front-window; and no efficient police-force
existed--merely a handful of townsmen were drafted from time to time
as "watchmen" to preserve order, and the "night watch" was famed rather
for its ability to sleep or to roister than to protect life or purse.

Under these circumstances the citizen who would escape an assault by ruffians
or thieves remained prudently indoors at night and retired early
to bed.

  Picturesque and quaint the sixteenth-century town may have been;
but it was also an uncomfortable and an unhealthful place in which
to live.

  

  
TRADE PRIOR TO THE COMMERCIAL REVOLUTION

Just as agriculture is the ultimate basis of human society, so town-
life has always been an index of culture and civilization. And the
fortunes of town-life have ever depended upon the vicissitudes of
trade and commerce.

So the reviving commerce of the later middle ages between Europe and
the East meant the growth of cities and betokened an advance in civilization.

[Sidenote:

  

  Revival of Trade with the East]

  Trade between Europe and Asia, which had been a feature of the antique
world of Greeks and Romans, had been very nearly destroyed by the
barbarian invasions of the fifth century and by subsequent conflicts
between Mohammedans and Christians, so that during several centuries
the old trade-routes were traveled only by a few Jews and with the
Syrians.



But posie-bloom an' simmer-dew
  And ither sweets o' faery
C'u'd na gae down wi' Bawsy-brown,
  Sae nigh to Maggie's dairy!
My pantry shelves, sae clean and white,
  Are set wi' cream and cheeses,--
Gae, gin you will, an' take your fill
  Of whatsoever pleases.

Then wave your wand aboon my een
  Until they close awearie,
And the night be past sae sweet and fast
  Wi' dreamings o' my dearie.
But pinch the wench in yonder room,
  For she's na gude nor bonnie,--
Her shelves be dust and her pans be rust,
  And she winkit at my Johnnie!

APPLE-PIE AND CHEESE

Full many a sinful notion
  Conceived of foreign powers
Has come across the ocean
  To harm this land of ours;
And heresies called fashions
  Have modesty effaced,
And baleful, morbid passions
  Corrupt our native taste.
O tempora! O mores!
  What profanations these
That seek to dim the glories
  Of apple-pie and cheese!

I'm glad my education
  Enables me to stand
Against the vile temptation
  Held out on every hand;
Eschewing all the tittles
  With vanity replete,
I'm loyal to the victuals
  Our grandsires used to eat!
I'm glad I've got three willing boys
  To hang around and tease
Their mother for the filling joys
  Of apple-pie and cheese!

Your flavored creams and ices
  And your dainty angel-food
Are mighty fine devices
  To regale the dainty dude;
Your terrapin and oysters,
  With wine to wash 'em down,
Are just the thing for roisters
  When painting of the town;
No flippant, sugared notion
  Shall my appetite appease,
Or bate my soul's devotion
  To apple-pie and cheese!

The pie my Julia makes me
  (God bless her Yankee ways!)
On memory's pinions takes me
  To dear Green Mountain days;
And seems like I see Mother
  Lean on the window-sill,
A-handin' me and brother
  What she knows 'll keep us still;
And these feelings are so grateful,
  Says I, "Julia, if you please,
I'll take another plateful
  Of that apple-pie and cheese!"

And cheese! No alien it, sir,
  That's brought across the sea,--
No Dutch antique, nor Switzer,
  Nor glutinous de Brie;
There's nothing I abhor so
  As mawmets of this ilk--
Give me the harmless morceau
  That's made of true-blue milk!
No matter what conditions
   Dyspeptic come to feaze,
The best of all physicians
  Is apple-pie and cheese!

Though ribalds may decry 'em,
  For these twin boons we stand,
Partaking thrice per diem
  Of their fulness out of hand;
No enervating fashion
  Shall cheat us of our right
To gratify our passion
  With a mouthful at a bite!
We'll cut it square or bias,
  Or any way we please,
And faith shall justify us
  When we carve our pie and cheese!

De gustibus, 't is stated,
  Non disputandum est.
Which meaneth, when translated,
  That all is for the best.
So let the foolish choose 'em
  The vapid sweets of sin,
I will not disabuse 'em
  Of the heresy they're in;
But I, when I undress me
  Each night, upon my knees
Will ask the Lord to bless me
  With apple-pie and cheese!

KRINKEN

Krinken was a little child,-- It was summer when he smiled. Oft the hoary sea and grim Stretched
its white arms out to him, Calling, "Sun-child, come to me; Let me warm my heart with thee!"
But the child heard not the sea, Calling, yearning evermore For the summer on the shore.

Krinken on the beach one day Saw a maiden Nis at play; On the pebbly beach she played In the
summer Krinken made. Fair, and very fair, was she, Just a little child was he. "Krinken," said
the maiden Nis, "Let me have a little kiss, Just a kiss, and go with me To the summer-lands
that be Down within the silver sea."

Krinken was a little child-- By the maiden Nis beguiled, Hand in hand with her went he, And
'twas summer in the sea. And the hoary sea and grim To its bosom folded him-- Clasped and kissed
the little form, And the ocean's heart was warm.

Now the sea calls out no more; It is winter on the shore,-- Winter where that little child
Made sweet summer when he smiled; Though 'tis summer on the sea Where with maiden Nis went
he,-- Summer, summer evermore,-- It is winter on the shore, Winter, winter evermore. Of the
summer on the deep Come sweet visions in my sleep: His fair face lifts from the sea, His dear
voice calls out to me,-- These my dreams of summer be.

Krinken was a little child, By the maiden Nis beguiled; Oft the hoary sea and grim Reached
its longing arms to him, Crying, "Sun-child, come to me; Let me warm my heart with thee!" But
the sea calls out no more; It is winter on the shore,-- Winter, cold and dark and wild; Krinken
was a little child,-- It was summer when he smiled; Down he went into the sea, And the winter
bides with me. Just a little child was he.

BERANGER'S "BROKEN FIDDLE"

I

There, there, poor dog, my faithful friend,
  Pay you no heed unto my sorrow:
But feast to-day while yet you may,--
  Who knows but we shall starve to-morrow!

II

"Give us a tune," the foemen cried,
  In one of their profane caprices;
I bade them "No"--they frowned, and, lo!
  They dashed this innocent in pieces!

III

This fiddle was the village pride--
  The mirth of every fete enhancing;
Its wizard art set every heart
  As well as every foot to dancing.

IV

How well the bridegroom knew its voice,
  As from its strings its song went gushing!
Nor long delayed the promised maid
  Equipped for bridal, coy and blushing.

V

Why, it discoursed so merrily,
  It quickly banished all dejection;
And yet, when pressed, our priest confessed
  I played with pious circumspection.

VI

And though, in patriotic song,
  It was our guide, compatriot, teacher,
I never thought the foe had wrought
  His fury on the helpless creature!

VII

But there, poor dog, my faithful friend,
  Pay you no heed unto my sorrow;
I prithee take this paltry cake,--
  Who knows but we shall starve to-morrow!

VIII

Ah, who shall lead the Sunday choir
  As this old fiddle used to do it?
Can vintage come, with this voice dumb
  That used to bid a welcome to it?

IX

It soothed the weary hours of toil,
  It brought forgetfulness to debtors;
Time and again from wretched men
  It struck oppression's galling fetters.

X

No man could hear its voice, and hate;
  It stayed the teardrop at its portal;
With that dear thing I was a king
  As never yet was monarch mortal!

XI

Now has the foe--the vandal foe--
  Struck from my hands their pride and glory;
There let it lie! In vengeance, I
  Shall wield another weapon, gory!

XII

And if, O countrymen, I fall,
  Beside our grave let this be spoken:
"No foe of France shall ever dance
  Above the heart and fiddle, broken!"

XIII

So come, poor dog, my faithful friend,
  I prithee do not heed my sorrow,
But feast to-day while yet you may,
  For we are like to starve to-morrow.

THE LITTLE PEACH

A little peach in the orchard grew,--
A little peach of emerald hue;
Warmed by the sun and wet by the dew,
          It grew.

One day, passing that orchard through,
That little peach dawned on the view
Of Johnny Jones and his sister Sue--
          Them two.

Up at that peach a club they threw--
Down from the stem on which it grew
Fell that peach of emerald hue.
          Mon Dieu!

John took a bite and Sue a chew,
And then the trouble began to brew,--
Trouble the doctor couldn't subdue.
          Too true!

Under the turf where the daisies grew
They planted John and his sister Sue,
And their little souls to the angels flew,--
          Boo hoo!

What of that peach of the emerald hue,
Warmed by the sun, and wet by the dew?
Ah, well, its mission on earth is through.
          Adieu!

1880.

HORACE III. 13

O fountain of Bandusia,
  Whence crystal waters flow,
With garlands gay and wine I'll pay
  The sacrifice I owe;
A sportive kid with budding horns
  I have, whose crimson blood
Anon shall dye and sanctify
  Thy cool and babbling flood.

O fountain of Bandusia,
  The dog-star's hateful spell
No evil brings unto the springs
  That from thy bosom well;
Here oxen, wearied by the plough,
  The roving cattle here,
Hasten in quest of certain rest
  And quaff thy gracious cheer.

O fountain of Bandusia,
  Ennobled shalt thou be,
For I shall sing the joys that spring
  Beneath yon ilex-tree;
Yes, fountain of Bandusia,
  Posterity shall know
The cooling brooks that from thy nooks
  Singing and dancing go!

THE DIVINE LULLABY

  I hear Thy voice, dear Lord;
I hear it by the stormy sea
  When winter nights are black and wild,
And when, affright, I call to Thee;
  It calms my fears and whispers me,
"Sleep well, my child."

  I hear Thy voice, dear Lord,
In singing winds, in falling snow,
  The curfew chimes, the midnight bell.
"Sleep well, my child," it murmurs low;
"The guardian angels come and go,--
  O child, sleep well!"

  I hear Thy voice, dear Lord,
Ay, though the singing winds be stilled,
  Though hushed the tumult of the deep,
My fainting heart with anguish chilled
By Thy assuring tone is thrilled,--
  "Fear not, and sleep!"

  Speak on--speak on, dear Lord!
And when the last dread night is near,
  With doubts and fears and terrors wild,
Oh, let my soul expiring hear
Only these words of heavenly cheer,
  "Sleep well, my child!"

IN THE FIRELIGHT

The fire upon the hearth is low,
  And there is stillness everywhere,
  While like winged spirits, here and there,
The firelight shadows fluttering go.
And as the shadows round me creep,
  A childish treble breaks the gloom,
  And softly from a further room
Comes, "Now I lay me down to sleep."

And somehow, with that little prayer
  And that sweet treble in my ears,
  My thoughts go back to distant years
And linger with a loved one there;
And as I hear my child's amen,
  My mother's faith comes back to me,--
  Crouched at her side I seem to be,
And Mother holds my hands again.

Oh, for an hour in that dear place!
  Oh, for the peace of that dear time!
  Oh, for that childish trust sublime!
Oh, for a glimpse of Mother's face!
Yet, as the shadows round me creep,
  I do not seem to be alone,--
  Sweet magic of that treble tone,
And "Now I lay me down to sleep."

1885.

HEINE'S "WIDOW OR DAUGHTER?"

Shall I woo the one or other?
  Both attract me--more's the pity!
Pretty is the widowed mother,
  And the daughter, too, is pretty.

When I see that maiden shrinking,
  By the gods I swear I'll get 'er!
But anon I fall to thinking
  That the mother 'll suit me better!

So, like any idiot ass
  Hungry for the fragrant fodder,
Placed between two bales of grass,
  Lo, I doubt, delay, and dodder!

Long years ago this holy time,
  My little one--my all to me--
  Sat robed in white upon my knee
And heard the merry Christmas chime.

"Tell me, my little golden-head,
  If Santa Claus should come to-night,
  What shall he bring my baby bright,--
What treasure for my boy?" I said.

And then he named this little toy,
  While in his round and mournful eyes
  There came a look of sweet surprise,
That spake his quiet, trustful joy.

That night, while lengthening shadows crept,
  I saw the white-winged angels come
  With singing to our lowly home
And kiss my darling as he slept.

They must have heard his little prayer,
  For in the morn, with rapturous face,
  He toddled to the chimney-place,
And found this little treasure there.

They came again one Christmas-tide,--
  That angel host, so fair and white!
  And singing all that glorious night,
They lured my darling from my side.

A little sock, a little toy,
  A little lock of golden hair,
  The Christmas music on the air,
A watching for my baby boy!

But if again that angel train
  And golden-head come back for me,
  To bear me to Eternity,
My watching will not be in vain!

1879.

DE AMICITIIS

        Though care and strife
        Elsewhere be rife,
Upon my word I do not heed 'em;
        In bed I lie
        With books hard by,
And with increasing zest I read 'em.

        Propped up in bed,
        So much I've read
Of musty tomes that I've a headful
        Of tales and rhymes
        Of ancient times,
Which, wife declares, are "simply dreadful!"

        They give me joy
        Without alloy;
And isn't that what books are made for?
        And yet--and yet--
        (Ah, vain regret!)
I would to God they all were paid for!

        No festooned cup
        Filled foaming up
Can lure me elsewhere to confound me;
        Sweeter than wine
        This love of mine
For these old books I see around me!

        A plague, I say,
        On maidens gay;
I'll weave no compliments to tell 'em!
        Vain fool I were,
        Did I prefer
Those dolls to these old friends in vellum!

        At dead of night
        My chamber's bright
Not only with the gas that's burning,
        But with the glow
        Of long ago,--
Of beauty back from eld returning.

        Fair women's looks
        I see in books,
I see them, and I hear their laughter,--
        Proud, high-born maids,
        Unlike the jades
Which men-folk now go chasing after!

        Herein again
        Speak valiant men
Of all nativities and ages;
        I hear and smile
        With rapture while
I turn these musty, magic pages.

        The sword, the lance,
        The morris dance,
The highland song, the greenwood ditty,
        Of these I read,
        Or, when the need,
My Miller grinds me grist that's gritty!

        When of such stuff
        We've had enough,
Why, there be other friends to greet us;
        We'll moralize
        In solemn wise
With Plato or with Epictetus.

        Sneer as you may,
        I'm proud to say
That I, for one, am very grateful
        To Heaven, that sends
        These genial friends
To banish other friendships hateful!

        And when I'm done,
        I'd have no son
Pounce on these treasures like a vulture;
        Nay, give them half
        My epitaph,
And let them share in my sepulture.

        Then, when the crack
        Of doom rolls back
The marble and the earth that hide me,
        I'll smuggle home
        Each precious tome,
Without a fear my wife shall chide me!

OUR LADY OF THE MINE

The Blue Horizon wuz a mine us fellers all thought well uv,
And there befell the episode I now perpose to tell uv;
'T wuz in the year uv sixty-nine,--somewhere along in summer,--
There hove in sight one afternoon a new and curious comer;
His name wuz Silas Pettibone,--a' artist by perfession,--
With a kit of tools and a big mustache and a pipe in his possession.
He told us, by our leave, he 'd kind uv like to make some sketches
Uv the snowy peaks, 'nd the foamin' crick, 'nd the distant mountain
         stretches;
"You're welkim, sir," sez we, although this scenery dodge seemed to us
A waste uv time where scenery wuz already sooper-floo-us.

All through the summer Pettibone kep' busy at his sketchin',-- At daybreak off for Eagle Pass,
and home at nightfall, fetchin' That everlastin' book uv his with spider-lines all through
it; Three-Fingered Hoover used to say there warn't no meanin' to it. "Gol durn a man," sez
he to him, "whose shif'less hand is sot at A-drawin' hills that's full uv quartz that's pinin'
to be got at!" "Go on," sez Pettibone, "go on, if joshin' gratifies ye; But one uv these fine
times I'll show ye sumthin' will surprise ye!" The which remark led us to think--although he
didn't say it-- That Pettibone wuz owin' us a gredge 'nd meant to pay it.

One evenin' as we sat around the Restauraw de Casey, A-singin' songs 'nd tellin' yarns the
which wuz sumwhat racy, In come that feller Pettibone, 'nd sez, "With your permission, I'd
like to put a picture I have made on exhibition." Now to this objection it maybe answered, and very
satisfactorily, "Is it then nothing toward convincing us of the truth of the Gospel, that those whom
we love best and reverence most believe it? Is it against reason to think that they are right,
who have considered the matter most deeply? Do we not receive what they tell us in other matters, though
we cannot prove the truth of their information; for instance, in
matters of art and science; why then is it irrational to believe them
in religion also?

Have not the wisest and holiest of men been Christians? and have not unbelievers, on the contrary,
been very generally signal instances of pride, discontent, and profligacy?
Again, are not the principles of unbelief certain to dissolve human
society? and is not this plain fact, candidly considered, enough
to show that unbelief cannot be a right condition of our nature? for
who can believe that we were intended to live in anarchy?

If we have no good reason for believing, at least we have no good
reason for disbelieving. If you ask why we are Christians, we ask
in turn, Why should we not be Christians? it will be enough to remain
where we are, till you do what you never can do--prove to us for certain,
that the Gospel is not Divine; it is enough for us to be on the side
of good men, to be under the feet of the Saints, to 'go our way forth
by the footsteps of the flock, and to feed our kids beside the shepherds'
tent[1].'"

This would be quite a sufficient answer, had we nothing else to say; but
I will give another, and that in connexion with the text; I will show
you that the most unlearned Christian may have a very real and substantial
argument, an intimate token, of the truth of the Gospel, quite independent
of the authority of his parents and teachers; nay, that were all
the world, even were his teachers, to tell him that religion was a
dream, still he would have a good reason for believing it true.

This reason, I say, is contained in the text--"I have more understanding
than the aged, because I keep Thy commandments." By obeying the commands
of Scripture, we learn that these commands really come from God;
by trying we make proof; by doing we come to know.

Now how comes this to pass?

It happens in several ways.

1. Consider the Bible tells us to be meek, humble, single-hearted, and teachable.
Now, it is plain that humility and teachableness are qualities of
mind necessary for arriving at the truth in any subject, and in religious
matters as well as others.

By obeying Scripture, then, in practising humility and teachableness, it is evident we are at least
in the way to arrive at the knowledge of God.

On the other hand, impatient, proud, self-confident, obstinate men, are generally wrong in the
opinions they form of persons and things. Prejudice and self-conceit blind
the eyes and mislead the judgment, whatever be the subject inquired into.
For instance, how often do men mistake the characters and misconstrue
the actions of others! how often are they deceived in them! how often
do the young form acquaintances injurious to their comfort and good! how
often do men embark in foolish and ruinous schemes! how often do they squander
their money, and destroy their worldly prospects! And what, I ask, is so
frequent a cause of these many errors as wilfulness and presumption?

    The same thing happens also
in religious inquiries. When I see a person
hasty and violent, harsh and high-minded, careless
    of what others feel, and disdainful of what they think,--when I see
such a one proceeding to inquire into religious subjects, I am sure beforehand
he cannot go right--he will not be led into all the truth--it is contrary
to the nature of things and the experience of the world, that he should
find what he is seeking.

    
I should say the same were he seeking to find out what
to believe or do in any other matter not religious,--but especially
in any such important and solemn inquiry; for the fear of the Lord
(humbleness, teachableness, reverence towards Him) is the very beginning
of wisdom, as Solomon tells us; it leads us to think over things modestly
and honestly, to examine patiently, to bear doubt and uncertainty,
to wait perseveringly for an increase of light, to be slow to speak,
and to be deliberate in deciding.
    

    

    

2. Consider, in the next place, that those who are trained carefully according
to the precepts of Scripture, gain an elevation, a delicacy, refinement,
and sanctity of mind, which is most necessary for judging fairly of
the truth of Scripture.

    
A man who loves sin does not wish the Gospel to be true,
and therefore is not a fair judge of it; a mere
    man of the world, a selfish and covetous man, or a drunkard, or an extortioner,
is, from a sense of interest, against that Bible which condemns him,
and would account that man indeed a messenger of good tidings of
peace who could prove to him that Christ's doctrine was not from God.

I do not mean to say that such men necessarily reject the word of God,
as if we could dare to conclude that all who do not reject it are
therefore sure to be not covetous, drunkards, extortioners, and the
like; for it is often a man's interest not openly to reject it, though
it be against him; and the bulk of men are inconsistent, and have
some good feelings left, even amid their sins and vices, which keep
them from going all lengths.

But, while they still profess to honour, at least they try to pervert and misinterpret
Scripture, and that comes to the same thing.

  
They try to persuade themselves that Christ will
  save them, though they continue in sin; or they wish to believe that
future punishment will not last for ever; or they conceive that their
good deeds or habits, few and miserable as they are at best, will
make up for the sins of which they are too conscious.

  

  
Whereas such men as have been taught betimes to work with God their
Saviour--in ruling their hearts, and curbing their sinful passions,
and changing their wills--though they are still sinners, have not
within them that treacherous enemy of the truth which misleads the
judgments of irreligious men.

  

  

Here, then, are two very good reasons at first sight, why men who obey
the Scripture precepts are more likely to arrive at religious truth,
than those who neglect them; first, because such men are teachable
men; secondly, because they are pure in heart; such shall see God,
whereas the proud provoke His anger, and the carnal are His abhorrence.

But

to proceed.

Consider, moreover, that those who try to
  obey God evidently gain a knowledge
of themselves at least; and this
  may be shown to be the first and principal step towards knowing God. For
let us suppose a child, under God's blessing, profiting by his teacher's
guidance, and trying to do his duty and please God.

He will perceive that there is much in him which ought not to be in him. His
own natural sense of right and wrong tells him that peevishness,
sullenness, deceit, and self-will, are tempers and principles of which
he has cause to be ashamed, and he feels that these bad tempers and
principles are in his heart.

As he grows older, he will understand
  this more and more. Wishing, then,
and striving to act up to
  the law of conscience, he will yet find that, with his utmost efforts, and after his
most earnest prayers, he still falls short of what he knows to be right, and
what he aims at.

  

  
Conscience, however, being respected, will become a more powerful
and enlightened guide than before; it will become more refined and hard
to please; and he will understand and perceive more clearly the distance
that exists between his own conduct and thoughts, and perfection. He
will admire and take pleasure in the holy law of God, of which he
reads in Scripture; but he will be humbled withal, as understanding
himself to be a continual transgressor against it.

  
Thus he will learn from experience the
  doctrine of original sin, before he knows the actual name of it. I know that
in my flesh dwelleth no good thing[3]." The effect of this experience
will be to make him take it for granted, as an elementary truth,
that he cannot gain heaven for himself; to make him feel himself
guilty before God; and to feel, moreover, that even were he admitted
into the Divine presence, yet, till his heart be (so to say) made
over again, he cannot perfectly enjoy God.

  
This, surely, is the state of self-knowledge;
  these are the convictions to which every one is brought on, who attempts
honestly to obey the precepts of God.

I do not mean that all that I have been saying will necessarily pass through
his mind, and in the same order, or that he will be conscious of it, or
be able to speak of it, but that on the whole thus he will feel.

When, then, even an unlearned person thus trained--from his own heart,
from the action of his mind upon itself, from struggles with self,
from an attempt to follow those impulses of his own nature which
he feels to be highest and noblest, from a vivid natural perception
(natural, though cherished and strengthened by prayer, natural, though
unfolded and diversified by practice, natural, though of that new
and second nature which God the Holy Ghost gives), from an innate,
though supernatural perception of the great vision of Truth which
is external to him (a perception of it, not indeed in its fulness,
but in glimpses, and by fits and seasons, and in its persuasive influences,
and through a courageous following on after it, as a man in the dark
might follow after some dim and distant light)--I say, when a person
thus trained from his own heart, reads the declarations and promises
of the Gospel, are we to be told that he believes in them merely because
he has been bid believe in them?

Do we not see he has besides this a something in his own breast which bears
a confirming testimony to their truth? He reads that the heart is "deceitful
above all things and desperately wicked[4]," and that he inherits
an evil nature from Adam, and that he is still under its power, except
so far as he has been renewed.

Here is a mystery; but his own actual and too bitter experience bears
witness to the truth of the declaration; he feels the mystery of iniquity
within him. He reads, that "without holiness no man shall see the Lord[5];"
and his own love of what is true and lovely and pure, approves and
embraces the doctrine as coming from God.

He reads, that God is angry at sin, and will punish the sinner, and that it
is a hard matter, nay, an impossibility, for us to appease His wrath.
Here, again, is a mystery: but here, too, his conscience anticipates
the mystery, and convicts him; his mouth is stopped. And when he goes
on to read that the Son of God has Himself come into the world in our
flesh, and died upon the Cross for us, does he not, amid the awful
mysteriousness of the doctrine, find those words fulfilled in him which that
gracious Saviour uttered, "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw
all men unto Me"? He cannot choose but believe in Him. He says, "O
Lord, Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed."

Here then, I say, he surely possesses an evidence perfectly distinct
from the authority of superiors and teachers; like St. Paul, he is
in one way not taught of men, "but by the revelation of Jesus Christ[6]."
Others have but bid him look within, and pray for God's grace to
be enabled to know himself; and the more he understands his own heart,
the more are the Gospel doctrines recommended to his reason.

      
He is assured that Christ does not speak of Himself,
but that His word is from God. He is ready, with the
Samaritan woman, to say to all around him, "Come, see
      a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ[7]?"
Or, again, in the words which the Samaritans of the same city used
to the woman after conversing with Christ; "Now we believe, not because
of thy saying"

      
(not merely on the authority of friends and relatives), "for we
have heard Him ourselves, and
know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour
      of the world."

The Bible, then, seems to say,--God is not a hard master to require
belief, without affording grounds for believing; only follow your
own sense of right, and you will gain from that very obedience to
your Maker, which natural conscience enjoins, a conviction of the
truth and power of that Redeemer whom a supernatural message has revealed;
do but examine your thoughts and doings; do but attempt what you know
to be God's will, and you will most assuredly be led on into all the
truth: you will recognize the force, meaning, and awful graciousness
of the Gospel Creed; you will bear witness to the truth of one doctrine,
by your own past experience of yourselves; of another, by seeing that
it is suited to your necessity; of a third, by finding it fulfilled
upon your obeying it.

      

      

My brethren, it is always reasonable to insist upon these subjects;
but it is peculiarly so in times when a spirit of presumptuous doubting
is in many places abroad.

As many of us as live in the world must expect
      to hear our faith despised,
and our conscientious obedience ridiculed;
we must expect to be taunted and scorned by those who find it much
easier to attack another's creed than to state their own.

      A little learning is a dangerous thing. When men think they know more than
others, they often talk for the sake of talking, or to show their
ability (as they think), their shrewdness and depth; and they speak lightly
of the All-Holy God, to gratify their empty self-conceit and vanity.
And often it answers no purpose to dispute with such persons; for
not having been trained up to obey their conscience, to restrain their
passions, and examine their hearts, they will assent to nothing you
can say; they will be questioning and arguing about every thing; they
have no common ground with you, and when they talk of religion they
are like blind persons talking of colours.

      

If you urge how
      
great a gift it is to be at peace with God, or of the arduousness and yet
desirableness of perfection, or the beauty of saintliness, or the dangerousness
of the world, or the blessedness of self-control, or the glory of virginity,
or the answers which God gives to prayer, or the marvellousness and
almost miraculousness of His providences, or the comfort of religion
in affliction, or the strength given you over your passions in the Most
Holy Sacrament, such persons understand you not at all. They will laugh,
they will scoff, at best they will wonder: any how what you say is no
evidence to them. You cannot convince them, because you differ from them
in first principles; it is not that they start from the same point
as you, and afterwards strike off in some wayward direction; but
their course is altogether distinct, they have no point in common
with you.

  

  For such persons then you can
only pray; God alone can bring down
  pride, self-conceit, an arrogant
spirit, a presumptuous temper; God alone can dissipate prejudice;
  God alone can overcome flesh and blood. Useful as argument may be for converting
a man, in such cases God seldom condescends to employ it. Yet, let
not such vain or ignorant reasoners convert you to unbelief in great
matters or little; let them not persuade you, that your faith is built
on the mere teaching of fallible men; do not you be ridiculed out
of your confidence and hope in Christ.

You may, if you will, have an inward witness arising from obedience:
and though you cannot make them see it, you can see it yourselves,
which is the great thing; and it will be quite sufficient, with God's blessing,
to keep you stedfast in the way of life.

Lastly, let me remark how dangerous their state is who are content to take
the truths of the Gospel on trust, without caring whether or not those truths
are realized in their own heart and conduct. Such men, when assailed by
ridicule and sophistry, are likely to fall; they have no root in themselves;
and let them be quite sure, that should they fall away from the faith, it
will be a slight thing at the last day to plead that subtle arguments
were used against them, that they were altogether unprepared and ignorant,
and that their seducers prevailed over them by the display of some
little cleverness and human knowledge.

The inward witness to the truth lodged in our hearts is a match for
the most learned infidel or sceptic that ever lived: though, to tell the
truth, such men are generally very shallow and weak, as well as wicked;
generally know only a little, pervert what they know, assume false
principles, and distort or suppress facts: but were they as accomplished
as the very author of evil, the humblest Christian, armed with sling
and stone, and supported by God's unseen might, is, as far as his
own faith is concerned, a match for them.

  
And, on the other hand, the most acute of reasoners and most profound of thinkers,
the most instructed in earthly knowledge, is nothing, except he has also
within him the presence of the Spirit of truth. Human knowledge,
though of great power when joined to a pure and humble faith, is
of no power when opposed to it, and, after ail, for the comfort of
the individual Christian, it is of little value.

  

  

  May we, then, all grow in heavenly knowledge, and, with that end, labour to
improve what is already given us, be it more or be it less, knowing that
"he that is faithful in little is faithful also in much," and that
"to him that hath, more shall be given."

  

  
[1] Cant. i. 8.
  
[2] John iii. 20.
  
[3] Rom. vii. 15, 18, 22, 23.

  

  
[4] Jer. xvii. 9.
  
[5] Heb. xii. 14.

[6] Gal. i. 12.

[7] John iv. 29.

[8] Mal. iii. 10.
  

The Prophets were ever ungratefully treated by the Israelites, they were
resisted, their warnings neglected, their good services forgotten.
But there was this difference between the earlier and the later Prophets;
the earlier lived and died in honour among their people,--in outward
honour; though hated and thwarted by the wicked, they were exalted
to high places, and ruled in the congregation.

Moses, for instance, was in trouble from his people all his life
long, but to the end he was their lawgiver and judge. But in the latter
times, the prophets were not only feared and hated by the enemies
of God, but cast out of the vineyard.

  

  
As the time approached for the coming of the true Prophet of the
Church, the Son of God, they resembled Him in their earthly fortunes more and
more; and as He was to suffer, so did they. Moses was a ruler, Jeremiah
was an outcast: Samuel was buried in peace, John the Baptist was beheaded.

Of
these, Elijah, who lived in the wilderness, and the hundred prophets
whom Obadiah fed by fifty in a cave, are examples of the wanderers.

And Micaiah, who was appointed the bread of affliction and the water
of affliction by an idolatrous king, is the specimen of those who
"had trial of bonds and imprisonment."

Of those who were sawn asunder and slain with the sword,
  Isaiah is the chief, who, as tradition goes, was
by order of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, sawn asunder with
  a wooden saw. And of those who were stoned, none is more famous than Zechariah,
the son of Jehoiada, "who was slain between the temple and the altar[3]."

  

  

But of all the persecuted prophets Jeremiah is the
  most eminent; i. e. we know more of his history, of
his imprisonments, his wanderings, and his afflictions.
  He may be taken as a representative of the Prophets; and hence it
is that he is an especial type of our Lord and Saviour.

All the Prophets were types of the Great Prophet whose way they were preparing;
they tended towards and spoke of Christ. In their sufferings they
foreshadowed His priesthood, and in their teaching His prophetical
office, and in their miracles His royal power. The history of Jeremiah,
then, as being drawn out in Scripture more circumstantially than
that of the other Prophets, is the most exact type of Christ among them;
that is, next to David, who, of course, was the nearest resemblance
to Him of all, as a sufferer, an inspired teacher, and a king.

Jeremiah comes next to David; I do not say in dignity and privilege, for
it was Elijah who was taken up to heaven, and appeared at the Transfiguration;
nor in inspiration, for to Isaiah one should assign the higher evangelical
gifts; but in typifying Him who came and wept over Jerusalem, and then was tortured
and put to death by those He wept over. And hence, when our Lord came,
while some thought Him Elijah, and others John the Baptist, risen
from the dead, there were others who thought Him Jeremiah. Of Jeremiah,
then, I will now speak, as a specimen of all those Prophets whom
St. Paul sets before us as examples of faith, and St. James as examples
of patience.

  
Jeremiah's ministry may be summed up in three words,
  good hope, labour, disappointment.

It was his privilege to be called to his sacred office from his earliest
years. Like Samuel, the first prophet, he was of the tribe of Levi,
dedicated from his birth to religious services, and favoured with
the constant presence and grace of God.

  

  
"Before I formed thee . . . This commission was given the year after Josiah
began his reformation. Jeremiah returned for answer, "Ah! Lord God! behold,
I cannot speak; for I am a child." He felt the arduousness of a prophet's
office; the firmness and intrepidity which were required to speak
the words of God.

  

  

  

  

  

  

I love the words,--perhaps because,
  When I was leaving Mother,
Standing at last in solemn pause
  We looked at one another,
And I--I saw in Mother's eyes
  The love she could not tell me,--
A love eternal as the skies,
  Whatever fate befell me;
She put her arms about my neck
  And soothed the pain of leaving,
And though her heart was like to break,
  She spoke no word of grieving;
She let no tear bedim her eye,
  For fear that might distress me,
But, kissing me, she said good-by,
  And asked our God to bless me.

HORACE TO PHYLLIS

Come, Phyllis, I've a cask of wine
  That fairly reeks with precious juices,
And in your tresses you shall twine
  The loveliest flowers this vale produces.

My cottage wears a gracious smile,--
  The altar, decked in floral glory,
Yearns for the lamb which bleats the while
  As though it pined for honors gory.

Hither our neighbors nimbly fare,--
  The boys agog, the maidens snickering;
And savory smells possess the air
  As skyward kitchen flames are flickering.

You ask what means this grand display,
  This festive throng, and goodly diet?
Well, since you're bound to have your way,
  I don't mind telling, on the quiet.

'Tis April 13, as you know,--
  A day and month devote to Venus,
Whereon was born, some years ago,
  My very worthy friend Maecenas.

Nay, pay no heed to Telephus,--
  Your friends agree he doesn't love you;
The way he flirts convinces us
  He really is not worthy of you!

Aurora's son, unhappy lad!
  You know the fate that overtook him?
And Pegasus a rider had--
  I say he had before he shook him!

Haec docet (as you must agree):
  'T is meet that Phyllis should discover
A wisdom in preferring me
  And mittening every other lover.

So come, O Phyllis, last and best
  Of loves with which this heart's been smitten,--
Come, sing my jealous fears to rest,
  And let your songs be those I've written.

AT THE DOOR

I thought myself indeed secure,
  So fast the door, so firm the lock;
But, lo! he toddling comes to lure
  My parent ear with timorous knock.

My heart were stone could it withstand
  The sweetness of my baby's plea,--
That timorous, baby knocking and
  "Please let me in,--it's only me."

I threw aside the unfinished book,
  Regardless of its tempting charms,
And opening wide the door, I took
  My laughing darling in my arms.

Who knows but in Eternity,
  I, like a truant child, shall wait
The glories of a life to be,
  Beyond the Heavenly Father's gate?

And will that Heavenly Father heed
  The truant's supplicating cry,
As at the outer door I plead,
 "'T is I, O Father! only I"?

1886.

HI-SPY

Strange that the city thoroughfare,
  Noisy and bustling all the day,
Should with the night renounce its care,
  And lend itself to children's play!

Oh, girls are girls, and boys are boys,
  And have been so since Abel's birth,
And shall be so till dolls and toys
  Are with the children swept from earth.

The self-same sport that crowns the day
  Of many a Syrian shepherd's son,
Beguiles the little lads at play
  By night in stately Babylon.

I hear their voices in the street,
  Yet 't is so different now from then!
Come, brother! from your winding-sheet,
  And let us two be boys again!

1886.

LITTLE CROODLIN DOO

Ho, pretty bee, did you see my croodlin doo?
  Ho, little lamb, is she jinkin' on the lea?
  Ho, bonnie fairy, bring my dearie back to me--
Got a lump o' sugar an' a posie for you,
Only bring back my wee, wee croodlin doo!

Why, here you are, my little croodlin doo!
  Looked in er cradle, but didn't find you there,
  Looked f'r my wee, wee croodlin doo ever'where;
Ben kind lonesome all er day withouten you;
Where you ben, my little wee, wee croodlin doo?

Now you go balow, my little croodlin doo;
  Now you go rockaby ever so far,--
  Rockaby, rockaby, up to the star
That's winkin' an' blinkin' an' singin' to you
As you go balow, my wee, wee croodlin doo!

THE "HAPPY ISLES" OF HORACE

Oh, come with me to the Happy Isles
  In the golden haze off yonder,
Where the song of the sun-kissed breeze beguiles,
  And the ocean loves to wander.

Fragrant the vines that mantle those hills,
  Proudly the fig rejoices;
Merrily dance the virgin rills,
  Blending their myriad voices.

Our herds shall fear no evil there,
  But peacefully feed and rest them;
Neither shall serpent nor prowling bear
  Ever come there to molest them.

Neither shall Eurus, wanton bold,
  Nor feverish drouth distress us,
But he that compasseth heat and cold
  Shall temper them both to bless us.

There no vandal foot has trod,
  And the pirate hosts that wander
Shall never profane the sacred sod
  Of those beautiful Isles out yonder.

Never a spell shall blight our vines,
  Nor Sirius blaze above us,
But you and I shall drink our wines
  And sing to the loved that love us.

So come with me where Fortune smiles
  And the gods invite devotion,--
Oh, come with me to the Happy Isles
  In the haze of that far-off ocean!

DUTCH LULLABY

Wynken, Blynken, and Nod one night
  Sailed off in a wooden shoe,--
Sailed on a river of misty light
  Into a sea of dew.
"Where are you going, and what do you wish?"
  The old moon asked the three.
"We have come to fish for the herring-fish
  That live in this beautiful sea;
  Nets of silver and gold have we,"
    Said Wynken,
    Blynken,
    And Nod.

The old moon laughed and sung a song,
  As they rocked in the wooden shoe;
And the wind that sped them all night long
  Ruffled the waves of dew;
The little stars were the herring-fish
  That lived in the beautiful sea.
"Now cast your nets wherever you wish,
  But never afeard are we!"
  So cried the stars to the fishermen three,
        Wynken,
        Blynken,
        And Nod.

All night long their nets they threw
  For the fish in the twinkling foam,
Then down from the sky came the wooden shoe,
  Bringing the fishermen home;
'T was all so pretty a sail, it seemed
  As if it could not be;
And some folk thought 't was a dream they'd dreamed
  Of sailing that beautiful sea;
  But I shall name you the fishermen three:
        Wynken,
        Blynken,
        And Nod.

Wynken and Blynken are two little eyes,
  And Nod is a little head,
And the wooden shoe that sailed the skies
  Is a wee one's trundle-bed;
So shut your eyes while Mother sings
  Of wonderful sights that be,
And you shall see the beautiful things
  As you rock on the misty sea
  Where the old shoe rocked the fishermen three,--
        Wynken,
        Blynken,
        And Nod.

HUGO'S "FLOWER TO BUTTERFLY"

Sweet, bide with me and let my love
  Be an enduring tether;
Oh, wanton not from spot to spot,
  But let us dwell together.

You've come each morn to sip the sweets
  With which you found me dripping,
Yet never knew it was not dew
  But tears that you were sipping.

You gambol over honey meads
  Where siren bees are humming;
But mine the fate to watch and wait
  For my beloved's coming.

The sunshine that delights you now
  Shall fade to darkness gloomy;
You should not fear if, biding here,
 You nestled closer to me.

So rest you, love, and be my love,
  That my enraptured blooming
May fill your sight with tender light,
  Your wings with sweet perfuming.

Or, if you will not bide with me
  Upon this quiet heather,
Oh, give me wing, thou beauteous thing,
  That we may soar together.

A PROPER TREWE IDYLL OF CAMELOT

Whenas ye plaisaunt Aperille shoures have washed and purged awaye Ye poysons and ye rheums
of earth to make a merrie May, Ye shraddy boscage of ye woods ben full of birds that syng Right
merrilie a madrigal unto ye waking spring, Ye whiles that when ye face of earth ben washed
and wiped ycleane Her peeping posies blink and stare like they had ben her een;

Then, wit ye well, ye harte of man ben turned to thoughts of love, And, tho' it ben a lyon
erst, it now ben like a dove! And many a goodly damosel in innocence beguiles Her owne trewe
love with sweet discourse and divers plaisaunt wiles. In soche a time ye noblesse liege that
ben Kyng Arthure hight Let cry a joust and tournament for evereche errant knyght, And, lo!
from distant Joyous-garde and eche adjacent spot A company of noblesse lords fared unto Camelot,
Wherein were mighty feastings and passing merrie cheere, And eke a deale of dismal dole, as
you shall quickly heare.

It so befell upon a daye when jousts ben had and while Sir Launcelot did ramp around ye ring
in gallaunt style, There came an horseman shriking sore and rashing wildly home,-- A mediaeval
horseman with ye usual flecks of foame; And he did brast into ye ring, wherein his horse did
drop, Upon ye which ye rider did with like abruptness stop, And with fatigue and fearfulness
continued in a swound Ye space of half an hour or more before a leech was founde. "Now tell
me straight," quod Launcelot, "what varlet knyght you be, Ere that I chine you with my sworde
and cleave your harte in three!" Then rolled that knyght his bloudy een, and answered with
a groane,-- "By worthy God that hath me made and shope ye sun and mone, There fareth hence
an evil thing whose like ben never seene, And tho' he sayeth nony worde, he bode the ill, I
ween. So take your parting, evereche one, and gird you for ye fraye, By all that's pure, ye
Divell sure doth trend his path this way!" Ye which he quoth and fell again into a deadly swound,
And on that spot, perchance (God wot), his bones mought yet be founde.

Then evereche knight girt on his sworde and shield and hied him straight To meet ye straunger
sarasen hard by ye city gate; Full sorely moaned ye damosels and tore their beautyse haire
For that they feared an hippogriff wolde come to eate them there; But as they moaned and swounded
there too numerous to relate, Kyng Arthure and Sir Launcelot stode at ye city gate, And at
eche side and round about stode many a noblesse knyght With helm and speare and sworde and
shield and mickle valor dight.

Anon there came a straunger, but not a gyaunt grim, Nor yet a draggon,--but a person gangling,
long, and slim; Yclad he was in guise that ill-beseemed those knyghtly days, And there ben
nony etiquette in his uplandish ways; His raiment was of dusty gray, and perched above his
lugs There ben the very latest style of blacke and shiny pluggs; His nose ben like a vulture
beake, his blie ben swart of hue, And curly ben ye whiskers through ye which ye zephyrs blewe;
Of all ye een that ben yseene in countries far or nigh, None nonywhere colde hold compare unto
that straunger's eye; It was an eye of soche a kind as never ben on sleepe, Nor did it gleam
with kindly beame, nor did not use to weepe; But soche an eye ye widdow hath,--an hongrey eye
and wan, That spyeth for an oder chaunce whereby she may catch on; An eye that winketh of itself,
and sayeth by that winke Ye which a maiden sholde not knowe nor never even thinke; Which winke
ben more exceeding swift nor human thought ben thunk, And leaveth doubting if so be that winke
ben really wunke; And soch an eye ye catte-fysshe hath when that he ben on dead And boyled
a goodly time and served with capers on his head; A rayless eye, a bead-like eye, whose famisht
aspect shows It hungereth for ye verdant banks whereon ye wild time grows; An eye that hawketh
up and down for evereche kind of game, And, when he doth espy ye which, he tumbleth to ye same.

Now when he kenned Sir Launcelot in armor clad, he quod, "Another put-a-nickel-in-and-see-me-work,
be god!" But when that he was ware a man ben standing in that suit, Ye straunger threw up both
his hands, and asked him not to shoote. 

Administration.

I fear, however, that the hatred to liberty in these poor devoted wretches
may ere long appear more doubtful than it is at present to the Vice-Chancellor
and his Clergy, inflamed as they doubtless are with classical examples
of republican virtue, and panting, as they always have been, to reduce
the power of the Crown within narrower and safer limits.

What mistaken zeal to attempt to connect one religion with freedom
and another with slavery!

Who laid the foundations of English liberty?

What was the mixed religion of Switzerland? What has the Protestant religion done for liberty in
Denmark, in Sweden, throughout the north of Germany, and in Prussia?

The purest religion in the world, in my humble opinion, is the religion
of the Church of England: for its preservation (so far as it is exercised
without intruding upon the liberties of others) I am ready at this
moment to venture my present life, and but through that religion I
have no hopes of any other; yet I am not forced to be silly because
I am pious; nor will I ever join in eulogiums on my faith which every
man of common reading and common sense can so easily refute.

You have either done too much for the Catholics, worthy Abraham, or
too little; if you had intended to refuse them political power, you
should have refused them civil rights.

After you had enabled them to acquire property, after you had conceded to them
all that you did concede in '78 and '93, the rest is wholly out of
your power: you may choose whether you will give the rest in an honourable
or a disgraceful mode, but it is utterly out of your power to withhold
it.

In the last year, land to the amount of EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND POUNDS was
purchased by the Catholics in Ireland. Do you think it possible to be-Perceval,
and be-Canning, and be-Castlereagh, such a body of men as this out
of their common rights, and their common sense?

Mr. George Canning may laugh and joke at the idea of Protestant bailiffs
ravishing Catholic ladies, under the 9th clause of the Sunset Bill;
but if some better remedy be not applied to the distractions of Ireland
than the jocularity of Mr. Canning, they will soon put an end to his
pension, and to the pension of those "near and dear relatives," for
whose eating, drinking, washing, and clothing, every man in the United
Kingdoms now pays his two-pence or three-pence a year.

You may call these observations coarse, if you please; but I have no
idea that the Sophias and Carolines of any man breathing are to eat
national veal, to drink public tea, to wear Treasury ribands, and
then that we are to be told that it is coarse to animadvert upon this
pitiful and eleemosynary splendour.

If this is right, why not mention it? If it is wrong, why should not
he who enjoys the ease of supporting his sisters in this manner bear
the shame of it?

Everybody seems hitherto to have spared a man who never spares anybody.

As

for the enormous wax candles, and superstitious mummeries, and painted jackets of the Catholic priests, I fear
them not.

Tell me that the world will return again under the influence of the smallpox; that Lord Castlereagh
will hereafter oppose the power of the Court; that Lord Howick and Mr. Grattan will do each of them
a mean and dishonourable action; that anybody who has heard Lord Redesdale
speak once will knowingly and willingly hear him again; that Lord Eldon
has assented to the fact of two and two making four, without shedding
tears, or expressing the smallest doubt or scruple; tell me any other
thing absurd or incredible, but, for the love of common sense, let
me hear no more of the danger to be apprehended from the general diffusion
of Popery.

It
is too absurd to be reasoned upon; every man feels it is nonsense
when he hears it stated, and so does every man while he is stating
it.

I cannot imagine why the friends to the Church Establishment should enter
in such a horror of seeing the doors of Parliament flung open to
the Catholics, and view so passively the enjoyment of that right by
the Presbyterians and by every other species of Dissenter.

In their tenets, in their Church Government, in the nature of their endowments,
the Dissenters are infinitely more distant from the Church of England
than the Catholics are; yet the Dissenters have never been excluded
from Parliament.

There are 45 members in one House, and 16 in the other, who always
are Dissenters. There is no law which would prevent every member of
the Lords and Commons from being Dissenters.

The Catholics could not bring into Parliament half the number of the Scotch members; and yet one exclusion
is of such immense importance, because it has taken place; and the other
no human being thinks of, because no one is accustomed to it.

I have often thought, if the WISDOM OF OUR ANCESTORS had excluded
all persons with red hair from the House of Commons, of the throes
and convulsions it would occasion to restore them to their natural
rights.

What
mobs and riots would it produce! To what infinite abuse and obloquy
would the capillary patriot be exposed; what wormwood would distil
from Mr. Perceval, what froth would drop from Mr. Canning; how (I
will not say MY, but OUR Lord Hawkesbury, for he belongs to us all)--how
our Lord Hawkesbury would work away about the hair of King William and Lord
Somers, and the authors of the great and glorious Revolution; how
Lord Eldon would appeal to the Deity and his own virtues, and to the hair
of his children: some would say that red-haired men were superstitious;
some would prove they were atheists; they would be petitioned against
as the friends of slavery, and the advocates for revolt; in short,
such a corruptor of the heart and understanding is the spirit of persecution,
that these unfortunate people (conspired against by their fellow-subjects
of every complexion), if they did not emigrate to countries where
hair of another colour was persecuted, would be driven to the falsehood
of perukes, or the hypocrisy of the Tricosian fluid.

As for the dangers of the Church (in spite of the staggering events which
have lately taken place), I have not yet entirely lost my confidence in the
power of common sense, and I believe the Church to be in no danger
at all; but if it is, that danger is not from the Catholics, but from
the Methodists, and from that patent Christianity which has been
for some time manufacturing at Clapham, to the prejudice of the old
and admirable article prepared by the Church.

  

  I would counsel my lords the
Bishops to keep their
  eyes upon that holy village, and
its vicinity; they will find there
  a zeal in making converts far superior to anything which exists among the
Catholics; a contempt for the great mass of English clergy, much more
rooted and profound; and a regular fund to purchase livings for those groaning
and garrulous gentlemen whom they denominate (by a standing sarcasm
against the regular Church) Gospel preachers and vital clergymen.

  

  I am too firm a believer in the general
propriety and respectability
  of the English clergy, to
believe they have much to
  fear either from old nonsense or from new; but if the Church must be supposed
to be in danger, I prefer that nonsense which is grown half venerable
from time, the force of which I have already tried and baffled, which
at least has some excuse in the dark and ignorant ages in which it
originated.

  
The religious enthusiasm
  manufactured by living men before
my own eyes disgusts my
  understanding as much, influences
my imagination not at all, and excites my apprehensions much more.

  

I may have seemed to you to treat the situation of public affairs
with some degree of levity; but I feel it deeply, and with nightly
and daily anguish; because I know Ireland; I have known it all my
life; I love it, and I foresee the crisis to which it will soon be
exposed.

  

  
Who can doubt but that Ireland will experience ultimately from France a
treatment to which the conduct they have experienced from England
is the love of a parent, or a brother?

  

 Who can doubt but that five years after he has got hold of the country,
Ireland will be tossed away by Bonaparte as a present to some one
of his ruffian generals, who will knock the head of Mr. Keogh against
the head of Cardinal Troy, shoot twenty of the most noisy blockheads of
the Roman persuasion, wash his pug-dogs in holy water, and confiscate
the salt butter of the Milesian republic to the last tub?

  
But what matters this?
  or who is wise enough in Ireland
to heed it? or when had common
  sense much influence with
my poor dear Irish?
  Mr. Perceval does not know the Irish; but I know them, and I know
that at every rash and mad hazard they will break the Union, revenge
their wounded pride and their insulted religion, and fling themselves
into the open arms of France, sure of dying in the embrace.

  

  

  

  And now, what means have you of guarding against this coming evil,
upon which the future happiness or misery of every Englishman depends?
Have you a single ally in the whole world? Is there a vulnerable point in
the French empire where the astonishing resources of that people
can be attracted and employed?

Have you a ministry wise enough to comprehend the danger,
  manly enough to believe unpleasant intelligence, honest enough to
state their apprehensions at the peril of their places?

  
Is there anywhere the slightest disposition to join any measure of
  love, or conciliation, or hope, with that dreadful
bill which the distractions of Ireland have
  rendered necessary?

  At the very moment that the last Monarchy in
Europe has fallen, are we not governed by a man of
  pleasantry, and a man of theology? In the
six hundredth year of our empire over Ireland, have we
  any memorial of ancient kindness to refer to? any people,
any zeal, any country on which we can depend?

  Have we any hope, but in the winds of heaven and the tides of the
sea? any prayer to prefer to the Irish, but that they should forget
and forgive their oppressors, who, in the very moment that they are
calling upon them for their exertions, solemnly assure them that the
oppression shall still remain?

Abraham, farewell! If I have tired you, remember how often you have
tired me and others.

I do not think we really differ in politics so much as you suppose;
or at least, if we do, that difference is in the means, and not in
the end.

We both love the Constitution, respect the King, and abhor the French. But though you love the Constitution,
you would perpetuate the abuses which have been engrafted upon it;
though you respect the King, you would confirm his scruples against the Catholics;
though you abhor the French, you would open to them the conquest
of Ireland.

My method of respecting my sovereign is by protecting his honour, his empire, and his lasting happiness;
I evince my love of the Constitution by making it the guardian of
all men's rights and the source of their freedom; and I prove my
abhorrence of the French, by uniting against them the disciples of
every church in the only remaining nation in Europe.

As for the men of whom I have been compelled in this age of mediocrity
to say so much, they cannot of themselves be worth a moment's consideration,
to you, to me, or to anybody.

In a year after their death they will be forgotten as completely as if
they had never been; and are now of no further importance than as they
are the mere vehicles of carrying into effect the common-place and
mischievous prejudices of the times in which they live.

Nothing can be more erroneous than to suppose that Ireland is not bigger
than the Isle of Wight, or of more consequence than Guernsey or Jersey;
and yet I am almost inclined to believe, from the general supineness
which prevails here respecting the dangerous state of that country,
that such is the rank which it holds in our statistical tables.

I have been writing to you a great deal about Ireland, and perhaps
it may be of some use to state to you concisely the nature and resources
of the country which has been the subject of our long and strange
correspondence.

There were returned, as I have before observed, to the hearth tax in 1791, 701,102 houses, which Mr. Newenham
shows from unquestionable documents to be nearly 80,000 below the real number of houses in that country.
There are 27,457 square English miles in Ireland, and more than five
millions of people.

By the last survey it appears that the inhabited houses in England and Wales
amount to 1,574,902, and the population to 9,343,578, which gives an average
of 5.875 to each house, in a country where the density of population
is certainly less considerable than in Ireland.

It is commonly supposed that two-fifths of the army and navy are Irishmen,
at periods when political disaffection does not avert the Catholics from
the service. The current value of Irish exports in 1807 was 9,314,854 pounds
17s. 7d.; a state of commerce about equal to the commerce of England
in the middle of the reign of George II.

The tonnage of ships entered inward and cleared outward in the trade of Ireland,
in 1807, amounted to 1,567,430 tons. The quantity of home spirits exported
amounted to 10,284 gallons in 1796, and to 930,800 gallons in 1804.

Of the exports which I have stated, provisions amounted to four millions,
and linen to about four millions and a half.

There was exported from Ireland, upon an average of two years ending
in January, 1804, 591,274 barrels of barley, oats, and wheat; and
by weight 910,848 cwts. of flour, oatmeal, barley, oats, and wheat.

The amount of butter exported in 1804, from Ireland, was worth, in money, 1,704,680 pounds sterling.
The importation of ale and beer, from the immense manufactures now
carrying on of these articles, was diminished to 3,209 barrels, in
the year 1804, from 111,920 barrels, which was the average importation
per annum, taking from three years ending in 1792; and at present
there is an export trade of porter.

On an average of three years, ending March, 1783, there were imported
into Ireland, of cotton wool, 3,326 cwts., of cotton yarn, 5,405
lbs.; but on an average of three years, ending January, 1803, there
were imported, of the first article, 13,159 cwts., and of the latter,
628,406 lbs.

It is impossible to conceive any manufacture more flourishing. The export of linen has increased
in Ireland from 17,776,862 yards, the average in 1770, to 43,534,971
yards, the amount in 1805.

The tillage of Ireland has more than trebled within the last twenty-one
years. The importation of coals has increased from 230,000 tons in
1783, to 417,030 in 1804; of tobacco, from 3,459,861 lbs. in 1783,
to 6,611,543 in 1804; of tea, from 1,703,855 lbs. in 1783, to 3,358,256
in 1804; of sugar, from 143,117 cwts. in 1782, to 309,076 in 1804.

Ireland now supports a funded debt of above 64 millions, and it is
computed that more than three millions' of money are annually remitted
to Irish absentees resident in this country.

In Mr. Foster's report, of 100 folio pages, presented to the House of Commons in the year 1806, the
total expenditure of Ireland is stated at 9,760,013 pounds. Ireland has
increased about two-thirds in its population within twenty-five years,
and yet, and in about the same space of time, its exports of beef,
bullocks, cows, pork, swine, butter, wheat, barley, and oats, collectively
taken, have doubled; and this, in spite of two years' famine, and
the presence of an immense army, that is always at hand to guard the
most valuable appanage of our empire from joining our most inveterate
enemies.

Ireland has the greatest possible facilities for carrying on commerce with the whole of Europe. It
contains, within a circuit of 750 miles, 66 secure harbours, and presents
a western frontier against Great Britain, reaching from the Firth
of Clyde north to the Bristol Channel south, and varying in distance
from 20 to 100 miles; so that the subjugation of Ireland would compel
us to guard with ships and soldiers a new line of coast, certainly
amounting, with all its sinuosities, to more than 700 miles--an addition
of polemics, in our present state of hostility with all the world,
which must highly gratify the vigorists, and give them an ample opportunity
of displaying that foolish energy upon which their claims to distinction
are founded.

Such is the country which the Right Reverend the Chancellor of the
Exchequer would drive into the arms of France, and for the conciliation
of which we are requested to wait, as if it were one of those sinecure
places which were given to Mr. Perceval snarling at the breast, and
which cannot be abolished till his decease.

How sincerely and fervently have I often wished that the Emperor of the French had thought as Mr.
Spencer Perceval does upon the subject of government; that he had entertained doubts and scruples upon the propriety
of admitting the Protestants to an equality of rights with the Catholics,
and that he had left in the middle of his empire these vigorous seeds
of hatred and disaffection!

But the world was never yet conquered by a blockhead. One of the very first
measures we saw him recurring to was the complete establishment
of religious liberty: if his subjects fought and paid as he pleased,
he allowed them to believe as they pleased: the moment I saw this,
my best hopes were lost.

I perceived in a moment the kind of man we had to do with. I was well
aware of the miserable ignorance and folly of this country upon
the subject of toleration; and every year has been adding to the
success of that game, which it was clear he had the will and the ability
to play against us.

You say Bonaparte is not in earnest upon the subject of religion, and that this is
the cause of his tolerant spirit; but is it possible you can intend to give us
such dreadful and unamiable notions of religion. Are we to understand
that the moment a man is sincere he is narrow-minded; that persecution
is the child of belief; and that a desire to leave all men in the
quiet and unpunished exercise of their own creed can only exist in
the mind of an infidel?

Thank God! I know many men whose principles are as firm as they are expanded,
who cling tenaciously to their own modification of the Christian faith,
without the slightest disposition to force that modification upon
other people. If Bonaparte is liberal in subjects of religion because
he has no religion, is this a reason why we should be illiberal because we are
Christians? If he owes this excellent quality to a vice, is that
any reason why we may not owe it to a virtue? Toleration is a great good,
and a good to be imitated, let it come from whom it will. If a sceptic is
tolerant, it only shows that he is not foolish in practice as well as
erroneous in theory. If a religious man is tolerant, it evinces that he
is religious from thought and inquiry, because he exhibits in his
conduct one of the most beautiful and important consequences of a
religious mind--an inviolable charity to all the honest varieties
of human opinion.

Lord Sidmouth, and all the anti-Catholic people, little foresee that they
will hereafter be the sport of the antiquary; that their prophecies
of ruin and destruction from Catholic emancipation will be clapped
into the notes of some quaint history, and be matter of pleasantry
even to the sedulous housewife and the rural dean.

There is always a copious supply of Lord Sidmouths in the world; nor is there one single source of human
happiness against which they have not uttered the most lugubrious predictions. Turnpike roads, navigable
canals, inoculation, hops, tobacco, the Reformation, the Revolution--there
are always a set of worthy and moderately-gifted men, who bawl out death
and ruin upon every valuable change which the varying aspect of human
affairs absolutely and imperiously requires.

I have often thought that it would be extremely useful to make a collection
of the hatred and abuse that all those changes have experienced, which
are now admitted to be marked improvements in our condition. Such a
history might make folly a little more modest, and suspicious of its
own decisions.

Ireland, you say, since the Union is to be considered as a part of the
whole kingdom; and therefore, however Catholics may predominate in that
particular spot, yet, taking the whole empire together, they are
to be considered as a much more insignificant quota of the population.

Consider them in what light you please, as part of the whole, or by themselves, or in what manner may be most
consentaneous to the devices of your holy mind--I say in a very few
words, if you do not relieve these people from the civil incapacities
to which they are exposed, you will lose them; or you must employ
great strength and much treasure in watching over them.

In
the present state of the world you can afford to do neither the one nor the other. Having stated this,
I shall leave you to be ruined, Puffendorf in hand (as Mr. Secretary Canning
says), and to lose Ireland, just as you have found out what proportion
the aggrieved people should bear to the whole population before their
calamities meet with redress.

As for
your parallel cases, I am no more afraid of deciding upon them than
I am upon their prototype.

If ever any one heresy should so far spread itself over the principality of Wales that the Established
Church were left in a minority of one to four; if you had subjected these heretics to very severe civil
privations; if the consequence of such privations were a universal
state of disaffection among that caseous and wrathful people; and
if at the same time you were at war with all the world, how can you
doubt for a moment that I would instantly restore them to a state
of the most complete civil liberty?

What matters it under what name you put the same case? Common sense is not
changed by appellations. I have said how I would act to Ireland, and I
would act so to all the world.

I admit that, to a certain degree, the Government will lose the affections
of the Orangemen by emancipating the Catholics; much less, however,
at present, than three years past.

 And, ez for
me, I seemed to see the past come back again, And hear the deep-drawed sigh my sister Lucy
uttered when Her mother asked her if she 'd practised her two hours that day, Wich, if she
hadn't, she must go an' do it right away! The homestead in the States 'nd all its memories
seemed to come A-floatin' round about me with that magic lumty-tum.

And then uprose a stranger wich had struck the camp that night; His eyes wuz sot an' fireless,
'nd his face wuz spookish white, 'Nd he sez: "Oh, how I suffer there is nobody kin say, Onless,
like me, he's wrenched himself from home an' friends away To seek surcease from sorrer in a
fur, seclooded spot, Only to find--alars, too late!--the wich surcease is not! Only to find
that there air things that, somehow, seem to live For nothin' in the world but jest the misery
they give! I've travelled eighteen hundred miles, but that toon has got here first; I'm done,--I'm
blowed,--I welcome death, an' bid it do its worst!"

Then, like a man whose mind wuz sot on yieldin' to his fate, He waltzed up to the counter an'
demanded whiskey straight, Wich havin' got outside uv,--both the likker and the door,-- We
never seen that stranger in the bloom uv health no more! But some months later, what the birds
had left uv him wuz found Associated with a tree, some distance from the ground; And Husky
Sam, the coroner, that set upon him, said That two things wuz apparent, namely: first, deceast
wuz dead; And, second, previously had got involved beyond all hope In a knotty complication
with a yard or two uv rope!

MEDIAEVAL EVENTIDE SONG

Come hither, lyttel childe, and lie upon my breast to-night, For yonder fares an angell yclad
in raimaunt white, And yonder sings ye angell as onely angells may, And his songe ben of a
garden that bloometh farre awaye.

To them that have no lyttel childe Godde sometimes sendeth down A lyttel childe that ben a
lyttel lambkyn of his owne; And if so bee they love that childe, He willeth it to staye, But
elsewise, in His mercie He taketh it awaye.

And sometimes, though they love it, Godde yearneth for ye childe, And sendeth angells singing,
whereby it ben beguiled; They fold their arms about ye lamb that croodleth at his play, And
beare him to ye garden that bloometh farre awaye.

I wolde not lose ye lyttel lamb that Godde hath lent to me; If I colde sing that angell songe,
how joysome I sholde bee! R S T have gained in breadth and proportionately lost in height.

[Sidenote: Date of the Morgan manuscript]

Inasmuch as these palaeographical differences mark a tendency which
reaches fuller development in later uncial manuscripts, it is clear
that their presence in our manuscript is a sign of its more recent
character as compared with manuscripts of the oldest type.

Just as our manuscript is clearly older than the Codex Fuldensis of about the year 546, so it is clearly
more recent than the Berlin Computus Paschalis of about the year 447. Its proper place is at
the end of the oldest series of uncial manuscripts, which begins with the Cicero palimpsest.
Its closest neighbors are, I believe, the Pliny palimpsest of St.
Paul in Carinthia and the Codex Theodosianus of Turin.

If we conclude by saying that the Morgan manuscript was written about
the year 500 we shall probably not be far from the truth.

[Sidenote: Later history of the Morgan manuscript]

The vicissitudes
of a manuscript often throw light upon the history of the text contained
in the manuscript.

And the palaeographer knows that any scratch or scribbling, any probatio pennae or casual entry,
may become important in tracing the wanderings of a manuscript.

In the six leaves that have been saved of our Morgan manuscript we
have two entries.

One is of a neutral character and does not take us further, but the other
is very clear and tells an unequivocal story.

The unimportant entry occurs in the lower margin of folio 53r. The words
“uir erat in terra,” which are apparently the beginning of the book
of Job, are written in Carolingian characters of the ninth century.

As these characters were used during the ninth century in northern
Italy as well as in France, it is impossible to say where this entry
was made.

If in France, then the manuscript
of Pliny must have left its Italian home before the ninth century.[31]

[Footnote
31: This supposition will be strengthened by Professor Rand; see p.
53.]

That it had crossed the Alps by the beginning of the fifteenth century
we know from the second entry. Nay, we learn more precise details.
We learn that our manuscript had found a home in France, in the town
of Meaux or its vicinity. That's what we thought
that summer day, an' that is what we said Ez we looked upon the piteous face uv Marthy's younkit
dead. But for his mother's sobbin', the house wuz very still, An' Sorry Tom wuz lookin', through
the winder, down the hill, To the patch beneath the hemlocks where his darlin' used to play,
An' the mountain brook sung lonesomelike an' loitered on its way. 

A sentry squad consists of one squad, posts a double sentinel post in observation near the post of
the squad. A picket consists of two or more squads not exceeding half a company. It furnishes
cossack posts, sentry squads, sentinel posts, and patrols. It is usually placed at the more important
points of the outguard line, as a road fork, etc. The post furnished by pickets may be as
far as 100 yards away. There should be also a sentinel post near the picket in observation. If the outguard
consists of two or more companies there is a reserve.

The reserve is held at some suitable point, where it can readily support the line. The reserve maintains
connection with the main body and the support. The support occupies the line to be held. This line should
be entrenched. The support maintains communication with its outguards
and with each support on its flanks.

It also sends out the necessary reconnoitering patrols. The outguards furnish sentinel posts and maintain
communication with them, and with the outguards on each flank.

It is the duty of the support commander to inspect his line and make such changes in the outguards
as he deems necessary, then to report to the outpost commander with a sketch if practicable of his
line when his dispositions are completed.

The outpost commander should inspect the line, order such changes
as he deems necessary, and report with a sketch of the outpost line
to the commander of troops when his outpost has taken up its position.

Instead of using outguards along the whole front, part of it may
be covered by patrols.

  

  
    
    

Outline
of Field Service Regulations.

  

  
LAND FORCES OF U.S.
  
    
    
Regular Army. Organized Land Militia.
  Volunteer forces.

How Grouped: Mobile Army.

  
Coast Artillery.
  
      
      

  

Mobile Army:

For offensive operations against enemy and so
  requires maximum degree of mobility.

  
      
      Basis of organization the division, a self-contained unit composed
of all necessary arms and services.

  

  

  Coast Artillery: (1) Permanent fortifications
      for defense against naval attack. (2) Semi-permanent
      fortifications for protection of permanent from raiders. (3) Organization of
mobile troops to prevent landing of enemy.

MILITARY INFORMATION.

Essential: (1) To enable War Department to estimate equipment and size
of force necessary. (2) To enable commander properly to estimate the
situation in the field of operations.

TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION.

Wire,
Signaling, Radio and Messenger: Message.--Concise, written information sent
by messenger or wire. Source always given.--"Heard" separated from
"seen."

Report.--Formal account of some enterprise. War Diary.--Record
of events kept in campaigns. Maps.

Reconnaissance:
The work of individuals or units in gathering information. To keep
contact with the enemy--to be acquainted with the terrain; to protect
flanks and rear and guard against surprise. Reconnaissance begins
on entering theater of operations and lasts through campaign. Effected
by patrols and air craft.

Indications of enemy: Tracks on road. Abandoned
camps and clothing. Infantry, thick, low cloud of dust. Cavalry, high,
thin cloud of dust. Artillery and wagons, broken cloud.

Determination
of Enemy Forces: Timing past a given point. Cavalry (walk), 110 per
minute. Cavalry (trot), 200 per minute. Infantry, 175 per minute.
Artillery and wagons, 5 per minute.

Security: Those measures taken
to protect a command from enemy observation, annoyance and surprise.
And how glad am I that my interests lie
  In Chicago, and not in Flanders!
      "----------------!"
      "----------------!"

Would never go down in this circumspect town However it might in Flanders.

OUR BIGGEST FISH

When in the halcyon days of old, I was a little tyke, I used to fish in pickerel ponds for
minnows and the like; And oh, the bitter sadness with which my soul was fraught When I rambled
home at nightfall with the puny string I'd caught! And, oh, the indignation and the valor I'd
display When I claimed that all the biggest fish I'd caught had got away!

Sometimes it was the rusty hooks, sometimes the fragile lines, And many times the treacherous
reeds would foil my just designs; But whether hooks or lines or reeds were actually to blame,
I kept right on at losing all the monsters just the same-- I never lost a little fish--yes,
I am free to say It always was the biggest fish I caught that got away.

And so it was, when later on, I felt ambition pass From callow minnow joys to nobler greed
for pike and bass; I found it quite convenient, when the beauties wouldn't bite And I returned
all bootless from the watery chase at night, To feign a cheery aspect and recount in accents
gay How the biggest fish that I had caught had somehow got away. 

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote
      
7: The word soma, observes Mgr. Capel, is never used in Greek
to express mere association or aggregation (Catholic, p. 13).]

[Footnote 8: From a Pastoral of the Swiss Bishops, which received
the Pope's approbation.]

CHAPTER VI.

THE POPE'S ORDINARY AUTHORITY.

1.

When the Holy Father speaks ex cathedrâ, and defines any doctrine
concerning Faith or Morals, we are bound to receive his teaching with
the assent of divine faith: and cannot refuse obedience, without being
guilty of heresy.

'T 'is even so in other things--yes, in our greedy eyes The biggest boon is some elusive, never-captured
prize; We angle for the honors and the sweets of human life-- Like fishermen we brave the seas
that roll in endless strife;

And then at last, when all is done and we are spent and gray, We own the biggest fish we've
caught are those that got away.

I would not have it otherwise; 't is better there should be Much bigger fish than I have caught
a-swimming in the sea; For now some worthier one than I may angle for that game-- May by his
arts entice, entrap, and comprehend the same; Which, having done, perchance he'll bless the
man who's proud to say That the biggest fish he ever caught were those that got away.

THIRTY-NINE

O hapless day! O wretched day! They
  never pauperize. They reach the
aspiring, and open to these the chief
  treasures of the world--those
stored up in books. A taste for
  reading drives out lower
tastes.
  

  

  
Besides this, I believe good fiction one
  of the most beneficial
reliefs to the monotonous lives of the poor. For these and other reasons
I prefer the free public library to most if not any other agencies
for the happiness and improvement of a community.

  

  
ANDREW CARNEGIE.
  

  
TO TEACHERS
  
Libraries are established that they may gather together the best of
the fruits of the tree of human speech, spread them before men in
all liberality and invite all to enjoy them.

The schools are in part established that they may tell the young how
to enjoy this feast.

  They do this. They teach the
young to read.
  
They put them in touch with words and phrases;
  they point out to them the delectable
mountains of human thought and action, and then
  let them go. It is to be lamented that they go so soon. At twelve,
at thirteen, at fourteen at the most, these young men and women, whose
lives could be so broadened, sweetened, mellowed, humanized by a few
years' daily contact with the wisest, noblest, wittiest of our kind as their
own words portray them--at this early age, when reading has hardly
begun, they leave school, and they leave almost all of the best reading
at the same time.

  
If, now, you can bring these young citizens
  into sympathy with the books
the libraries would persuade them to read; if you can
  impress upon them the reading
habit; then the libraries can supplement
  your good work; will rejoice in empty shelves; will feel that they
are not in vain; and the coming generations will delight, one and all,
in that which good books can give; will speak more plainly; will think more
clearly; will be less often led astray by false prophets of every kind;
will see that all men are of the one country of humanity; and will--to
sum it all--be better citizens of a good state.

  

 

  

  

  

  
I believe you will find there is
  something yet to do in reading in
which the library can be of help. Reading
  comes by practice.

The practice which a
  
pupil gets during school hours does not make him a quick and skilful reader.
There is not enough of it. If you encourage the reading habit, and
lead that habit, as you easily can, along good lines, your pupils will
gain much, simply in knowledge of words, in ability to get the meaning
out of print, even though we say nothing of the help their reading
will give them in other ways.

  

J. C. DANA.

RIGHT USE OF BOOKS

When we consider how much the education that is continued after schooltime
depends upon the right use of books, we can hardly be too emphatic
in asserting that something of that use should be learned in the school.
Yet almost nothing of the sort really is learned. The average student
in high school does not know the difference between a table of contents
and an index, does not know what a concordance is, does not know how
to find what he wants in an encyclopedia, does not even know that
a dictionary has many other uses besides that of supplying definitions.


"And lo, these winds that rove the sea
Unto our pact shall witness be,
  And of the oath which binds us both
Shall be the judge 'twixt me and thee!"

Then swore the king of Yvytot
Unto the sea-king years ago,
  And with great cheer for many a year
His ships went harrying to and fro.

Unto this mighty king his throne
Was born a prince, and one alone--
  Fairer than he in form and blee
And knightly grace was never known.

But once he saw a maiden face
Lift from a haunted ocean place--
  Lift up and gaze in mute amaze
And tenderly a little space.

Wroth was the king of Yvytot,
For that his son would never go
  Sailing the sea, but liefer be
Where wailed the waters in their flow,

Where winds in clamorous anger swept,
Where to and fro grim shadows crept,
  And where the mist reached down and kissed
The waters as they wailed and wept.

So sped the years, till came a day
The haughty king was old and gray,
  And in his hold were spoils untold
That he had wrenched from Norroway.

Then once again the sea-king cried:
"Thy ships have harried far and wide;
  My part is done--now let thy son
Require my daughter to his bride!" 

Would to God I could make all mankind realize
this awful, inconceivable privilege
  of life, that, Jupiter-like, they would
turn and face the light.

  

  

  

O child of Adam!

PART II

  

  

  
Here beginneth Chapter 3 of the Second Part of the Book which is called
"The Tablets of Aeth," wherein the Third, and last, Trinity of the
Planetary Rulers is faithfully transcribed.

  

"Thou hast entered the immeasurable regions.

I am the Dweller of the Threshold.

What wouldst thou with me? *
* * Dost thou fear me? Am I not thy beloved?

  TABLET THE SEVENTH

Saturn

SYMBOL

A human figure with a scepter
of power, a being of light crowned with flames.

VII

  
REFLECTION

TABLET THE SEVENTH

  In the external we remember Saturn as an old man, and as a skeleton
with a scythe--as Time, in fact.

But see, O immortal soul, the real Saturn, as the Angel of Life,
having from time gathered the experiences which crown him with light,
holding the rod of power; the Christ born in the manger of Capricorn,
the Goat--life born of death; the conqueror of evil.

He throws off the mask of age, and divine youth beams on us.

He doffs the mantle of rags, and royal splendors clothe him.

  

  
He lifts the hood,
  
and
  
behold the crown.

He raises the crutch, and lo! the rod of power.

  He drops the scythe of death for the jewel of eternal life.

  

  

  "Om Mani Padme Um."

(Oh the
  
jewel
  
in the lotus.)
  

  

O child of Adam!
  
Meditate on the transmutations of life.
  

Behold the earthly miracle of the caterpillar and the butterfly, of the toiling mortal
and the transcendent God!

TABLET THE EIGHTH

Uranus

SYMBOL

A human eye, from which darts lightning
upon an ocean of matter.

  

  
VIII

REFLECTION

TABLET THE EIGHTH

The state
of soul and spirit--penetration; the wonderful power of soul-perception,
which sheds its light on all visible things, receiving their images
and interpreting them into the spirit, the all-seer--what does it
not convey?

The perception that can see deep into your soul and see, as it were,
the yet unborn thought; that can distinguish the motive of action;
that judges the realities of your soul.

Such is the Astral Uranian.
For with us all, are three planes of mind: The drift plane, the intellectual,
and the spiritual, or internal plane; and thought- reading can be
on one or all of these different states.

But only the Uranian seer can read the inmost mind, and so really know the possibilities
of your spirit.

Imagine
an image of soft wax, covered with a sensitive skin. All impressions
on the skin shape the plastic wax, but go no deeper-- do not reach the
soul.

You can separate these impressions from your real self, when calm
and alone, and look upon emotion as a surface play.

But the tragedies of life strike deep.

They affect the soul, and go to the center of being.

"Verbum sap."

O child of Adam! Watch the tempest of life closely.
The Ego may sit calm amidst the storm, but, if that be stirred--BEWARE!
The God acts; the soul alone watches.

TABLET THE NINTH

Neptune

A Winged Globe.

IX

REFLECTION

TABLET
THE NINTH

An unknown quantity, a hope of progression, ideal love, and all true
mental and spiritual ideals; aspiration to become that which we feel
to be noble and true; the symbol of the monad, the soul which, receiving
its life from the Sun--the Ego--is constantly revealing new forces
and potencies of that God-life. Each soul's Ego is its maker and God.
The Ego is like the Deific potency of the universe, unlimited in potential
power, but limited by its monad as to what will be evolved from its
awful depth of being. Deity progresses through its expressions of
the cosmos. The Ego, your God, finds progressive expression through
you, through your soul. That soul is not immortal that becomes separated
from its Ego--its God. So, soul, spread your spiritual wings and soar
upward.

O child of Adam! Know these three things: Eternity is the
creator of the universal life; universal life creates the world, and
the world is the creator of time. And of these, the Universe is Life,
and the World is Mind, and Time is the Soul.
Oh, blissful nights, whose fierce delights
  Defied gaunt-featured Melancholy!
Gone are they all beyond recall,
  And I--a shade, a mere reflection--
Am forced to feed my spirit's greed
  Upon the husks of retrospection!

And lo! to-night, the phantom light,
  That, as a sprite, flits on the fender,
Reveals a face whose girlish grace
  Brings back the feeling, warm and tender;
And, all the while, the old-time smile
  Plays on my visage, grim and wrinkled,--
As though, soubrette, your footfalls yet
  Upon my rusty heart-strings tinkled!

SOME TIME

Last night, my darling, as you slept,
  I thought I heard you sigh,
And to your little crib I crept,
  And watched a space thereby;
And then I stooped and kissed your brow,
  For oh! I love you so--
You are too young to know it now,
  But some time you shall know!

Some time when, in a darkened place
  Where others come to weep,
Your eyes shall look upon a face
  Calm in eternal sleep,
The voiceless lips, the wrinkled brow,
  The patient smile shall show--
You are too young to know it now,
  But some time you may know!

Look backward, then, into the years,
  And see me here to-night--
See, O my darling! how my tears
  Are falling as I write;
And feel once more upon your brow
  The kiss of long ago--
You are too young to know it now,
  But some time you shall know.

