"No, but I feared, and still fear them.  I would not be stopped.  Do not speak, my friend;
not a word, I conjure you, before you have heard and seen all that is about to take place.
I will return with you to your house on quitting the Louvre; there I will listen to you, and
thence I shall depart to continue my work, for nothing will shake my resolve, I warn you. 
I have just said so to the gentlemen at your house."

In his accent Cinq-Mars had nothing of the brusqueness which clothed his words.  His voice
was conciliatory, his look gentle, amiable, affectionate, his air as tranquil as it was determined.
There was no indication of the slightest effort at control.  De Thou remarked it, and sighed.

Alighting from the carriage with him, De Thou followed him up the great staircase of the Louvre.
When they entered the Queen's apartment, announced by two ushers dressed in black and bearing
ebony rods, she was seated at her toilette. As it was with the pastorate of young Dr. Spencer, so it was with the
pastorate of each Dr. Gardiner Spring, so it was with the pastorate of a great many of
those old ministers of Jesus Christ, of the world was not worthy.  A mirror, rounded at the top,
which the ladies of our time would consider small and insignificant, stood in the middle of
the table, whereon were scattered jewels and necklaces.

Anne of Austria, seated before it in a large armchair of crimson velvet, with long gold fringe,
was as motionless and grave as on her throne, while Dona Stefania and Madame de Motteville,
on either side, lightly touched her beautiful blond hair with a comb, as if finishing the Queen's
coiffure, which, however, was already perfectly arranged and decorated with pearls.  Her long
tresses, though light, were exquisitely glossy, manifesting that to the touch they must be
fine and soft as silk.  The daylight fell without a shade upon her forehead, which had no reason
to dread the test, itself reflecting an almost equal light from its surpassing fairness, which
the Queen was pleased thus to display.  Her blue eyes, blended with green, were large and regular,
and her vermilion mouth had that underlip of the princesses of Austria, somewhat prominent
and slightly cleft, in the form of a cherry, which may still be marked in all the female portraits
of this time, whose painters seemed to have aimed at imitating the Queen's mouth, in order
to please the women of her suite, whose desire was, no doubt, to resemble her.

The black dress then adopted by the court, and of which the form was even fixed by an edict,
set off the ivory of her arms, bare to the elbow, and ornamented with a profusion of lace,
which flowed from her loose sleeves. Large pearls hung in her ears and from her girdle.  Such
was the appearance of the Queen at this moment.  At her feet, upon two velvet cushions, a boy
of four years old was playing with a little cannon, which he was assiduously breaking in pieces.
This was the Dauphin, afterward Louis XIV.  The Duchesse Marie de Mantua was seated on her
right hand upon a stool.  The Princesse de Guemenee, the Duchesse de Chevreuse, and Mademoiselle
de Montbazon, Mesdemoiselles de Guise, de Rohan, and de Vendome, all beautiful and brilliant
with youth, were behind her, standing.  In the recess of a window, Monsieur, his hat under
his arm, was talking in a low voice with a man, stout, with a red face and a steady and daring
eye.  This was the Duc de Bouillon.  An officer about twenty-five years of age, well-formed,
and of agreeable presence, had just given several papers to the Prince, which the Duc de Bouillon
appeared to be explaining to him.

De Thou, after having saluted the Queen, who said a few words to him, approached the Princesse
de Guemenee, and conversed with her in an undertone, with an air of affectionate intimacy,
but all the while intent upon his friend's interest.  Secretly trembling lest he should have
confided his destiny to a being less worthy of him than he wished, he examined the Princess
Marie with the scrupulous attention, the scrutinizing eye of a mother examining the woman whom
her son has selected for his bride--for he thought that Marie could not be altogether a stranger
to the enterprise of Cinq-Mars.  He saw with dissatisfaction that her dress, which was extremely
elegant, appeared to inspire her with more vanity than became her on such an occasion.  She
was incessantly rearranging upon her forehead and her hair the rubies which ornamented her
head, and which scarcely equalled the brilliancy and animated color of her complexion.  She
looked frequently at Cinq-Mars; but it was rather the look of coquetry than that of love, and
her eyes often glanced toward the mirror on the toilette, in which she watched the symmetry
of her beauty.  These observations of the counsellor began to persuade him that he was mistaken
in suspecting her to be the aim of Cinq-Mars, especially when he saw that she seemed to have
a pleasure in sitting at the Queen's side, while the duchesses stood behind her, and that she
often looked haughtily at them.

"In that heart of nineteen," said he, "love, were there love, would reign alone and above all
to-day.  It is not she!" 

In other words, he has added to the unscientific history of the Negro, which has hitherto appeared
in the so-called text books on Negro history, facts pick from various ladies but so improperly used as
not to develop the subject.  The Queen, then herself turning her chair, said to Monsieur:

"My brother, I beg you will come and sit down by me.  We will consult upon what I have already
told you.  The Princesse Marie will not be in the way.  I begged her to remain.  We have no
interruption to fear."

The Queen seemed more at ease in her manner and language; and no longer preserving her severe
and ceremonious immobility, she signed to the other persons present to approach her.

Gaston d'Orleans, somewhat alarmed at this solemn opening, came carelessly, sat down on her
right hand, and said with a half-smile and a negligent air, playing with his ruff and the chain
of the Saint Esprit which hung from his neck:

"I think, Madame, that we shall fatigue the ears of so young a personage by a long conference.
She would rather hear us speak of dances, and of marriage, of an elector, or of the King of
Poland, for example."

Marie assumed a disdainful air; Cinq-Mars frowned.

"Pardon me," replied the Queen, looking at her; "I assure you the politics of the present time
interest her much.  Do not seek to escape us, my brother," added she, smiling.  "I have you
to-day!  It is the least we can do to listen to Monsieur de Bouillon."

The latter approached, holding by the hand the young officer of whom we have spoken.

"I must first," said he, "present to your Majesty the Baron de Beauvau, who has just arrived
from Spain."

"From Spain?"  said the Queen, with emotion.  "There is courage in that; you have seen my family?"

"He will speak to you of them, and of the Count-Duke of Olivares.  As to courage, it is not
the first time he has shown it.  He commanded the cuirassiers of the Comte de Soissons."

"How?  so young, sir!  You must be fond of political wars."

"On the contrary, your Majesty will pardon me," replied he, "for I served with the princes
of the peace."

