Randolph took him over the whole thing from bottom to top. Through it all, he kept up the glib
patter of a showman; the ironic intent of it becoming more and more marked all the while.

They brought up at last in the study they had started from.

"Oh, but wait a moment!" Randolph said. "Here's two more rooms for you to see."

The first one explained its purpose at a glance, with a desk and typewriter, and filing cabinets
around the walls.

"Rubber floor," Randolph pointed out, "felt ceiling; absolutely sound-proof. Here's where my
stenographer sits all day, ready,--like a fireman. And this," he concluded, leading the way
to the other room, "is the holy of holies."

It had a rubber floor, too, and Rodney supposed, a felt ceiling. But its only furniture was
one straight-back chair and a canvas cot.

"Sound-proof too," said Randolph. "But sounding-boards or something in all the walls. I press
this button, start a dictaphone, and talk in any direction, anywhere. It's all taken down.
Here's where I'm supposed to think, make discoveries, and things. No distractions. One hundred
per cent. efficient. My God! I tried it for a while. Felt like a fool actor in a Belasco play.
Do you remember? The one with the laboratory and the doctor?"

They went back into the study.

"Clever beasts, though--poodles," he remarked, as he nodded Rodney to his chair and poured
himself another drink. "Learn their tricks very nicely. But good Heavens, Aldrich, think of
him as a man! Think what our American married women are up against, when they want somebody
to play off against their husbands and have to fall back on tired little beasts like that.
In all the older countries there are plenty of men, real men who've got something, that a married
woman can fall back on. But think of a woman of Eleanor's attractions having to take up a thing
like that. There's nothing else for her. Would you come around and hold her hand and make love
to her, or any other man like you? Not once in a thousand times. Eleanor doesn't mean anything.
She's trying to make me jealous. That's her newest experiment. But it's downright pitiful, I say."

Rodney got up out of his chair. It wasn't a possible conversation.

"I'll be running along, I think," he said. "I've a lot of proof to correct to-night, and you've
got work of your own, I expect."

"Sit down again," said Randolph sharply. "I'm just getting drunk. But that can wait. I'm going
to talk. I've got to talk. And if you go, I swear I'll call up Eleanor's butler and talk to
him. You'll keep it to yourself, anyway."

He added, as Rodney hesitated, "I want to tell you about Rose. I saw her in New York, you know."

Rodney sat down again. "Yes," he said, "so she wrote. Tell me how she looked. She's been working
tremendously hard, and I'm a little afraid she's overdoing it."

"She looks," Randolph said very deliberately, "a thousand years old." He laughed at the sharp
contraction of Rodney's brows. "Oh, not like that! She's as beautiful as ever. More. Facial
planes just a hair's breadth more defined perhaps--a bit more of what that painter Burton calls
edge. But not a line, not a mark. Her skin's still got that bloom on it, and she still flushes
up when she smiles. She's lost five pounds, perhaps, but that's just condition. And vitality!
My God!--But a thousand years old just the same."

"I'd like to know what you mean by that," said Rodney. He added, "if you mean anything," but
the words were unspoken.

Randolph did mean something.

