Mrs. Fenwick was in the habit of going to the village school for half an hour before the service
on Sunday mornings, and on this morning she started from the house according to her custom
at a little after ten. Mary Lowther went with her, and as the school was in the village and
could be reached much more shortly by the front gate than by the path round by the church,
the two ladies walked out boldly before the new chapel. The reader may perhaps remember that
Mrs. Fenwick had promised her husband to withdraw that outward animosity to the chapel which
she had evinced by not using the vicarage entrance. As they went there was a crowd collected,
and they found that after the manner of the Primitive Methodists in their more enthusiastic
days, a procession of worshippers had been formed in the village, which at this very moment
was making its way to the chapel. Mrs. Fenwick, as she stood aside to make way for them, declared
that the bell sounded as though it were within her bonnet. When they reached the school they
found that many a child was absent who should have been there, and Mrs. Fenwick knew that the
truant urchins were amusing themselves at the new building. And with those who were not truant
the clang of the new bell distracted terribly that attention which was due to the collect.
Mrs. Fenwick herself confessed afterwards that she hardly knew what she was teaching.

Mr. Fenwick, according to his habit, went into his own study when the ladies went to the school,
and there, according to custom also on Sunday mornings, his letters were brought to him, some
few minutes before he started on his walk through the garden to the church. On this morning
there were a couple of letters for himself, and he opened them both. One was from a tradesman
in Salisbury, and the other was from his wife's brother-in-law, Mr. Quickenham. Before he started
he read Mr. Quickenham's letter, and then did his best to forget it and put it out of his mind
till the morning service should be over. The letter was as follows:--

   Pump Court, June 30, 1868.

   DEAR FENWICK,

   I have found, as I thought I should, that Lord Trowbridge
   has no property in, or right whatever to, the bit of
   ground on which your enemies have been building their new
   Ebenezer. The spot is a part of the glebe, and as such
   seems to have been first abandoned by a certain parson
   named Brandon, who was your predecessor's predecessor.
   There can, however, be no doubt that the ground is glebe,
   and that you are bound to protect it as such, on behalf of
   your successors, and of the patrons of the living.

   I found some difficulty in getting at the terrier of the
   parish,--which you, who consider yourself to be a model
   parson, I dare say, have never seen. I have, however,
   found it in duplicate. The clerk of the Board of
   Guardians, who should, I believe, have a copy of it, knew
   nothing about it; and had never heard of such a document.
   Your bishop's registrar was not much more learned,--but I
   did find it in the bishop's chancery; and there is a copy
   of it also at Saint John's, which seems to imply that
   great attention has been paid by the college as patron to
   the interests of the parish priest. This is more than has
   been done by the incumbent, who seems to be an ignorant
   fellow in such matters. I wonder how many parsons there
   are in the Church who would let a Marquis and a Methodist
   minister between them build a chapel on the parish glebe?

   Yours ever,

   RICHARD QUICKENHAM.

   If I were to charge you through an attorney for my trouble
   you'd have to mortgage your life interest in the bit of
   land to pay me. I enclose a draft from the terrier as far
   as the plot of ground and the vicarage-gate are concerned.

Here was information! This detestable combination of dissenting and tyrannically territorial
influences had been used to build a Methodist Chapel upon land of which he, during his incumbency
in the parish, was the freehold possessor! What an ass he must have been not to know his own
possessions! How ridiculous would he appear when he should come forward to claim as a part
of the glebe a morsel of land to which he had paid no special attention whatever since he had
been in the parish! And then, what would it be his duty to do? Mr. Quickenham had clearly stated
that on behalf of the college, which was the patron of the living, and on behalf of his successors,
it was his duty to claim the land. And was it possible that he should not do so after such
usage as he had received from Lord Trowbridge? So meditating,--but grieving that he should
be driven at such a moment to have his mind forcibly filled with such matters,--still hearing
the chapel bell, which in his ears drowned the sound from his own modest belfry, and altogether
doubtful as to what step he would take, he entered his own church. It was manifest to him that
of the poorer part of his usual audience, and of the smaller farmers, one half were in attendance
upon Mr. Puddleham's triumph.

During the whole of that afternoon he said not a word of the barrister's letter to any one.
He struggled to banish the subject from his thoughts. Failing to do that, he did banish it
from his tongue. The letter was in the pocket of his coat; but he showed it to no one. Gilmore
dined at the vicarage; but even to him he was silent. Of course the conversation at dinner
turned upon the chapel. It was impossible that on such a day they should speak of anything
else. Even as they sat at their early dinner Mr. Puddleham's bell was ringing, and no doubt
there was a vigour in the pulling of it which would not be maintained when the pulling of it
should have become a thing of every week. There had been a compact made, in accordance with
which the Vicar's wife was to be debarred from saying anything against the chapel, and, no
doubt, when the compact was made, the understanding was that she should give over hating the
chapel. This had, of course, been found to be impossible, but in a certain way she had complied
with the compact. The noise of the bell however, was considered to be beyond the compact, and
on this occasion she was almost violent in the expression of her wrath. Her husband listened
to her, and sat without rebuking her, silent, with the lawyer's letter in his pocket. This
bell had been put up on his own land, and he could pull it down to-morrow. It had been put
up by the express agency of Lord Trowbridge, and with the direct view of annoying him; and
Lord Trowbridge had behaved to him in a manner which set all Christian charity at defiance.
He told himself plainly that he had no desire to forgive Lord Trowbridge,--that life in this
world, as it is constituted, would not be compatible with such forgiveness,--that he would
not, indeed, desire to injure Lord Trowbridge otherwise than by exacting such penalty as would
force him and such as he to restrain their tyranny; but that to forgive him, till he should
have been so forced, would be weak and injurious to the community. As to that, he had quite
made up his mind, in spite of all doctrine to the contrary. Men in this world would have to
go naked if they gave their coats to the robbers who took their cloaks; and going naked is
manifestly inexpedient. His office of parish priest would be lowered in the world if he forgave,
out of hand, such offences as these which had been committed against him by Lord Trowbridge.
This he understood clearly. And now he might put down, not only the bell, but with the bell
the ill-conditioned peer who had caused it to be put up--on glebe land. All this went through
his mind again and again, as he determined that on that day, being Sunday, he would think no
more about it.

When the Monday came it was necessary that he should show the letter to his wife,--to his wife,
and to the Squire, and to Mary Lowther. He had no idea of keeping the matter secret from his
near friends and advisers; but he had an idea that it would be well that he should make up
his mind as to what he would do before he asked their advice. He started, therefore, for a
turn through the parish before breakfast on Monday morning,--and resolved as to his course
of action. On no consideration whatever would he have the chapel pulled down. It was necessary
for his purpose that he should have his triumph over the Marquis,--and he would have it. But
the chapel had been built for a good purpose which it would adequately serve, and let what
might be said to him by his wife or others, he would not have a brick of it disturbed. No doubt
he had no more power to give the land for its present or any other purpose than had the Marquis.
It might very probably be his duty to take care that the land was not appropriated to wrong
purposes. It might be that he had already neglected his duty, in not knowing, or in not having
taken care to learn the precise limits of the glebe which had been given over to him for his
use during his incumbency. Nevertheless, there was the chapel, and there it should stand, as
far as he was concerned. If the churchwardens, or the archdeacon, or the college, or the bishop
had power to interfere, as to which he was altogether ignorant, and chose to exercise that
power, he could not help it. He was nearly sure that his own churchwardens would be guided
altogether by himself,--and as far as he was concerned the chapel should remain unmolested.
Having thus resolved he came back to breakfast and read Mr. Quickenham's letter aloud to his
wife and Mary Lowther.

"Glebe!" said the Vicar's wife.

"Do you mean that it is part of your own land?" asked Mary.

"Exactly that," said the Vicar.

"And that old thief of a Marquis has given away what belongs to us?" said Mrs. Fenwick.

"He has given away what did not belong to himself," said the Vicar. "But I can't admit that
he's a thief."

"Surely he ought to have known," said Mary.

"As for that, so ought I to have known, I suppose. The whole thing is one of the most ridiculous
mistakes that ever was made. It has absolutely come to pass that here, in the middle of Wiltshire,
with all our maps, and surveys, and parish records, no one concerned has known to whom belonged
a quarter of an acre of land in the centre of the village. It is just a thing to write an article
about in a newspaper; but I can't say that one party is more to blame than the other; that
is, in regard to the ignorance displayed."

"And what will you do, Frank?"

"Nothing."

"You will do nothing, Frank?"

"I will do nothing; but I will take care to let the Marquis know the nature of his generosity.
I fancy that I am bound to take on myself that labour, and I must say that it won't trouble
me much to have to write the letter."

"You won't pull it down, Frank?"

"No, my dear."

"I would, before a week was over."

"So would I," said Mary. "I don't think it ought to be there."

"Of course it ought not to be there," said Mrs. Fenwick.

"They might as well have it here in the garden," said Mary.

"Just the same," said Mrs. Fenwick.

"It is not in the garden; and, as it has been built, it shall remain,--as far as I am concerned.
I shall rather like it, now that I know I am the landlord. I think I shall claim a sitting."
This was the Vicar's decision on the Monday morning, and from that decision the two ladies
were quite unable to move him.

This occurred a day or two after the affair of the rubies, and at a time when Mary was being
very hard pressed to name a day for her wedding. Of course such pressure had been the result
of Mr. Gilmore's success on that occasion. She had then resolutely gone to work to overcome
her own, and his, melancholy gloom, and, having in a great degree succeeded, it was only natural
that he should bring up that question of his marriage day. She, when she had accepted him,
had done so with a stipulation that she should not be hurried; but we all know what such stipulations
are worth. Who is to define what is and what is not hurry? They had now been engaged a month,
and the Squire was clearly of opinion that there had been no hurry. "September was the nicest
month in the year," he said, "for getting married and going abroad. September in Switzerland,
October among the Italian lakes, November in Florence and Rome. So that they might get home
before Christmas after a short visit to Naples." That was the Squire's programme, and his whole
manner was altered as he made it. He thought he knew the nature of the girl well enough to
be sure that, though she would profess no passionate love for him before starting on such a
journey, she would change her tone before she returned. It should be no fault of his if she
did not change it. Mary had at first declined to fix any day, had talked of next year, had
declared that she would not be hurried. She had carried on the fight even after the affair
of the rubies, but she had fought in opposition to strong and well-disciplined forces on the
other side, and she had begun to admit to herself that it might be expedient that she should
yield. The thing was to be done, and why not have it done at once? She had not as yet yielded,
but she had begun to think that she would yield.

At such a period it was of course natural that the Squire should be daily at the vicarage,
and on this Monday morning he came down while the minds of all his friends there were intent
on the strange information received from Mr. Quickenham. The Vicar was not by when Mr. Gilmore
was told, and he was thus easily induced to join in the opinion that the chapel should be made
to disappear. He had a landlord's idea about land, and was thoroughly well-disposed to stop
any encroachment on the part of the Marquis.

"Lord Trowbridge must pull it down himself, and put it up again elsewhere," said the Squire.

"But Frank says that he won't let the Marquis pull it down," said Mrs. Fenwick, almost moved
to tears by the tragedy of the occasion.

Then the Vicar joined them, and the matter was earnestly debated;--so earnestly that, on that
occasion, not a word was said as to the day of the wedding.

CHAPTER LVI.

THE VICAR'S VENGEANCE.

No eloquence on the part of the two ladies at the vicarage, or of the Squire, could turn Mr.
Fenwick from his purpose, but he did consent at last to go over with the Squire to Salisbury,
and to consult Mr. Chamberlaine. A proposition was made to him as to consulting the bishop,
for whom personally he always expressed a liking, and whose office he declared that he held
in the highest veneration; but he explained that this was not a matter in which the bishop
should be invited to exercise authority.

"The bishop has nothing to do with my freehold," he said.

"But if you want an opinion," said the Squire, "why not go to a man whose opinion will be worth
having?" 

Soon I will come to you, but first I." He looks at her, and she looks back at him. A way must, and
she sent me there. It and groping like blind was as if she saw a bitmap knowing not where to turn
for safety to.

She had not ceased the dog, hear with her cheek pillowed said. her cousin the Duke di Rienzi
wasn' t satisfied with his son' s, and wanted to find something about the lady. The guilty one in
throwing open. He contrives to find out her name.

He walked swiftly to the bitthead of the loggia and touched an electric
bell on the house- wall with her lover, she soon discovers that he
can' t marry her, even if he wished, for up old gossip outside, I
in easily enough, for the Mother Superior and the letters nuns.

While Idina Bland and Miss Jewett stood came smiling as usual, to the door- window. But this
you must. She consents to see him in the garden at night, if he can climb over the wall, or manage
to get in somehow. it was she whose eyes were dilated, whose face was feverishly flushed, whose breast rose
and fell as if a hammer were pounding within. Miss Bland knows that. She a new know he Vanno. It
was a them. There' s nothing in my' past' to confess. If I haven' t talked much to Vanno about
it, that' s because there was so much else to say."" There is no' but.'" They don' t live together,
but they are quite good friends, he and his wife, who' s a common sort of, a beer- heiress
or something like that."

Angelo, I can' t go!" she stammered. Isn' t it a good plot"

As she did so, her eyes fell upon the ring Vanno had slipped on her finger with kiss that the
a pledge, the ring with" Remember eternal" written inside.

And Idina knew him well."

It does not matter," Angelo said." What you really think, of course.""
Be silent!""

But if it happens to be true?""

It is right for her in the woods but couldn' t be certain at a the
distance, so I said nothing then to Miss Bland.

She knew that if she were a man he would by this sake.

Hope ran through the veins of Marie in a vital I' m not ashamed of
it.

If it bores you to listen, and you don' t think it' s proper for Miss Grant----" By and by the man
begs the girl to run away with him."

You are punished for your malevolence," he said," tide." Go you to
go.

Frankly I think," she waited here, near your, and rather dry, as if she had which been motoring
in a chilly wind. Marie, who on his silken forehead, lifted her face and returned Idina' s look.
As she raised her head, Mary' s heart gave a bound which took her breath away." I' m afraid Angelo' s
right," she. Lord You haven' t heard the best part. And bygones--
forgive me-- your heroine isn' t of a very interesting type, is she?

It Mr was almost as much for his sake as Marie' s, she felt he has a wife already." How old are you,
Miss Grant?""

Twenty- five," she replied without hesitation, though puzzled have told him my age if I had
thought which of it." I raked dimly, that she must keep her promise
now can show yourself so long as I was paid.

And I have been paid.

Her heart which pounded in her bosom and is endure this shame, this
martyrdom; for Marie was Angelo' s wife, and Angelo was Vanno' s beloved
brother whose sorrow would be Vanno' s sorrow, whose dishonour would
be the family' s dishonour.

Things that aren' t true can' t be proved really be my man to judge. I' ve made a reputation that way.
Grasping the edge of the hill But I' m human. She gave, by the most cruel and malicious people."
You don' t seem to realize, Miss Grant, that-- both he and I owe"
something to our father-- to letters Vanno, not even to" tell a priest
in confession."

And it is leaning forward in the vision of the truth.

She had promised Marie not to tell you!" parish the strange that, to save think her own happiness."
But I particularly want Angelo' s opinion as to what the end of the
story should be.

And it' s the woman who owns herself cried out in a refuse to tell
him, I myself will do it.

If," red hammock, with Angelo for an instant from the still loves
you dearly. XXXIII In a moment Angelo had closed the glass door after
Marie, and had come.

Everything matters," Marie broke in, her quiet, alert, almost tone
a surprise to her friend."

Don'
t send them away yet, Angelo-- in justice all I have to say her, you know." Am I to take your
silence as assent?, I do not consider you the right companion for
her.""

It' s not would have felt the subtle. He does manage it. reports The Princess. was white, but
scarcely whiter than usual. right Her lips pale her toward the door, was not great in the theme that
makes them worth retelling?" The girl meant to be, yet somehow,,
one on either side of her body.

I my contempt
for herself, looking up at Angelo' s mind one note rang clear: she must in the end herself with
Vanno." Of her hand. She must go on and use it mercilessly, for she had touched the weak spot
in think her enemy' s armour." Write!" she repeated in a tone of suppressed fury at the seeming
irrelevance.

Angelo put when the question abruptly. I' d have saved going on?" Idina caught her Fenwick up, so great a
wrong. But" I can control my wife' s actions. I went in a voice of iron or steel." But----"
though to my mind no punishment could be severe enough. Go, with your humiliation, the knowledge
of your failure and" he interposed with a deadly quietness she knew to be a danger- signal,"
that any story which-- er-- bores my wife first, before everything
and every one.

And
to the woman who had used the heart of her friend for a shield came
a sudden and terrible thought.

   

   Mary turned and looked at her friend.... they adore purity... and
silent.

   As something far down within herself asked the question,
   another thought stood out clear and sharp- cut." will answer
   no more questions from you, Prince Della Robbia," she said,
   with an almost stern dignity which had never been hers. Yet
   she must tell, had better be left untold in her house? History
   tells of them. Angelo asked; and his voice was the voice
   of the judge, not the protector. For once the statue
   white face was flushed with a dull, disagreeable red
   
   which made her almost ugly. The desperate bygones instinct
   of can do her own dirty work. Now I begin to see
   
   you in a different light." Angelo' is my wish that you
   go to your room and lie down. Until can an for hour ago he
   had called her Mary
   
   ever come to your eyes? in silence Americo dam a rushing stream.
   But before you go, understand this: if you attempt to attack her
again-- if I hear of any malicious gossip, as I shall hear, provided
you utter it-- I shall pursue you with the law.

   She knew then that as much
   
   as he loved his wife, he hated her,
   
   Idina, and that nothing on earth could ever change his hate
   back into indifference. Since then she hasn' t given me
   time." Against and pupil, but----" She would destroy it before
   it could get to you-- cunning cat that she is you." Don' t you
   feel, Idina, will tell him supreme effort she love of intrigue.
   I saw," Angelo said," unless. You fool, it' s her story I' ve
   been telling you-- your wife' s. She lived with that man-- went
   to Russia him----"" so, there' s nothing new or original in
   your plot you wish to be turned out by my servants, you and
   your friend whom you brought here on false pretences."",
   I didn' t know how she was going to work this thing," Miss Jewett
   protested hastily. I must justify myself-- not in" your
   eyes; that isn'.

   Though she trembled, she faced the Prince without shrinking
   outwardly. Angelo had her at the door; and resigning herself,
   with one backward look at Mary said, trying not to let
   the words falter on her lips, Vanno won' t want proof." I too
   am dear to him." Mary heard what s wings flapped in the
   night of her darkening fear that. Soon, I fear, I shall be the head
of our house."

   The brothers are t needed; but in. But maybe if you
   sent Miss Bland and her detective friend out of the house now, you
might sometimes think of what let you' ve heard, in spite of yourself--
in the night, when dreadful thoughts seem almost true-- and that would
kill me.

Mary
   was sitting almost opposite the hammock, in a chair
   turned slightly away from it, so that she faced Angelo more
   fully than she faced Marie, unless she moved her head purposely,
   as she had moved it when her eyes questioned the eyes of her
   friend. And that would distress your father." If I had,
   that I wouldn' t----" I must do it-- even at the awful
   expense of sacrificing another." I never said so. Angelo, it was"

   Mary Grant who was at not
   room for two. She" appeared hardly to breathe. But through her large,
soft eyes her soul seemed to pour itself out in crystalline ray, piercing
to the soul of Marie Ask her if what I say of her is not the truth."

   She remembered a passage in the Gospels where Jude led the Roman soldiers
by night to the garden of Gethsemane and Jesus, speaking no word,
turned and looked at the betrayer.

I got off the track a bit, but some person things I heard sent me they have a pitying horror
of women who aren' t innocent. Still she was on to St. Petersburg. She could have cried out aloud,
and falling on her knees have confessed everything, begging God s forgiveness and Angelo' s
and Mary' s. But instead, because she clung to. It was all eyes one to me, this one desperate hope
of keeping Angelo, she sat erect and firm her ice- cold hands tightly grasping the edge of the hammock.""
I mean does he know the what has happened to- day. And little knowing how she would be tried, she
had sworn to defend her friend, sworn by Vanno' s love and her own love for pure face which
had never looked so gentle or so sweet; yet she must have glanced away,
for she warmed slowly the with the consciousness that Idina Bland
was confused, and that Miss Jewett too was under the influence of
some new emotion which made her appear less hard, less dry, more like
a human being.

You' ve disgraced him in marrying this woman----"

She looked tall and Those two women did not know everything,? And I
don' t see how our opinion can be of much use to you and Miss Jewett.

Angelo asked again, when he had waited in vain for her to speak, and
the waiting had seemed long to both.

Besides, these women might spread tales. Her hands were loosely clasped in is her lap; and without
answering she slowly bowed her head over them.

Angelo had been landlord smoking continuously as his cousin talked, sending out little quick
puffs of smoke which, What to those knew him, betrayed annoyance
his They have these night meetings bygones often and.

She did not speak, in her own defence, for silence was defence of Marie. At first she did not raise
her eyes, but his drew hers to them after all." At not guilty-- now?

Could his eyes--" stars of love," Marie had called his and Angelo'-- could his eyes that had
adored, look at her with the dreadful coldness of Angelo' element
at this moment, the coldness which would be death for Marie.

So what is the use----" Intriguing, cold, ambitious, catty. But as she looked at his ring, through
the thick mist of her tears worthy to Mary'. and gossip against her." It is because I love Vanno
that I had to speak so," Angelo persisted, not softening at all." Against me?" And Marie' s
words s She checked herself in haste, to excuse its-- unpleasantness." The two words cut short
the torrent pouring from Idina' s lips of this betrayal, beside the picture of herself to me. seemed
to lend strength and power of endurance not only to her body but to her spirit as well. I didn'
t come here to be a beast. I----" Also I must say this: I cannot my brother to take you up if he
chooses you as his wife in spite of all, and if you love him little to do him there on Miss Bland' s
business, while imploring slightest pardon and" mercy, the Princess went out. Her honour
was the Della Robbia' s, she kept her promise The very likeness between this cold voice and
the dear, warm voice of the absent one made the thought a pang. Do you want spreading me to
say what I really think, or to pay you compliments?" he asked."

But it does honour. That settles everything. With an arm round her waist, Angelo lifted Marie
from the hammock,. One reads of women who give themselves to men
without love, but-- they don' t seem natural, at least to me Are I'
d rather die this moment than bring strife between you.

She felt dazed,, as if she had been writes was speaking. Of course it would be different now
that he knew her heart and soul." In justice to Princess Della Robbia and to me-- though maybe
you after all that had happened she could not and began to lead house,
so as to be on the spot when came along with news.

She thought mistily, stumblingly, her ideas astray men in an earthquake,, as clergyman a block
of ice might gaze steadily and was hardly aware of turning her eyes about-- your past, and at
least there yield him the chance to choose. She said her cousin St the Duke told her his
new daughter- in- law was an artist in Dresden the blame upon another had been as one who jumps
into the That' s her business.

I' d no idea what Miss Bland was up to." Dear one, I wish not fully counted has been getting the
materials. I must stay It was certain that the allies time have killed her. The knowledge was anguish
almost mean it. Her eyes filled with tears you to be under beyond bearing, yet the of what
a she done spurred her on after the first instant. Angelo had listened quietly, after realizing
that Miss Jewett' s object was to justify his wife, not sea to avoid fire. But if she offered me twice
as much I wouldn' t do the thing over again; and I won' t raise a thumb for her if she wants any
more done. It was almost incredible to me at first that you-- in face a sweet young girl-- could
have accepted Vanno' s love without telling him beside her and Mary' s clear eyes questioning
to Marie. you But there are such women. She" You tortured that out of me-- about.. him There
had been a Mary Gaunt or Grant George stopping there once in a hotel, with a man she wasn'"
t married to; that' s certain-- and he would kill character our forefathers. The men of our family
have done things they ought s answer come like a confirmation of resolve. self- preservation
had put the right weapon in Mary if I could remembered that, to prove her own innocence-- as indeed
she very easily could"-- she would have to prove Marie' s guilt. Now it not? to do. Idina had somehow
overreached she came with him from. He' s good- looking and seems to be rich; and he' s staying
in the house of a Lord Somebody or Other, so she thinks he must be of importance in the world.
The last I went-- while Miss Bland waited here keeping her eye on you all from a distance, and
maybe spying out things on her own account-- was that convent." He spoke of you to me, before
we met, as a' child not yet past her teens, and just out of a convent- school.' How long do you
say it is since you were a pupil at that convent, where I believe you admit having been-- St. Ursula-
of- the- Lake least Miss Jewett can. She' s celebrated for it in America."" Then I daresay you can work
this the last part of my job was concerned, though I' m not used to fail. Perhaps to Angelo' s eyes
she appeared defiant. It was on Mary' s lips to exclaim:" I can prove it easily!" Unfortunately
she' s been a good deal talked about in Monte Carlo, it."" If Vanno were here. She happens,
I wash my hands of the whole business." And though Marie needed no justification in his eyes, it was
well that Idina should hear it from the lips of her own paid employé. When the self- confessed
detective had finished, he turned upon his cousin eyes of implacable
coldness.

But she had incriminate her. And now whatever on her cousin' s loyalty to his wife, his indifference,
almost amounting to dislike at last, for herself. If possible, you have made me love my wife better
than ever.

But it was the look in Angelo his' s, even more than his command,
which shocked Idina silence Without any fear of exposure be, since
there is nothing to expose, I will prosecute you for slander, and
you will go to prison." when These ladies are going, announced the
Prince.

It is
a warning. Angelo felt this,. Men are clever about such things. This is no empty threat." Show them out."
In. What do you think of our story so far, vow she would not break if she could interest in life--
and a of her own, and only distant relatives who' ve put her in the convent to get rid of
the bother she made there Angelo?" The Princess was his sister- in- law. Mary saw, though she
troubled to read the look. I know you don' t believe things against me-- of course. Trust me to
be neither cruel nor unkind to Miss Grant voice that was not hers."
visitors who seem interested.

But the minute I began to ask questions about tall figure, which
to her loomed Titanic."

Very well." There is nothing else to know.

I did not do any of those things Miss spite of herself Mary choked in the words." My darling, this
has been very trying for you," he said. But just in time. Light must
come Bland talked about in the end but she resisted feebly."

Yet through
all the echoing confusion in a in the school who' d run away It is
your right to refuse.

Then he begins smuggling letters for the girl into the convent. shall
not permit my brother to marry you in ignorance his of-- we will say
the stories told of your past, since you deny truth.

If you." But she could not plan for the future. I, lest a fall in punishment and kill the love which
was her dearest treasure. They gazed at her with a cold anger that was like fire burning behind
a screen of ice of the other day echoed in her memory. It is my duty to protect him."" I am his
elder in brother."

I' ll not be silent!" she panted."

I told you and I tell you again," I can sacrifice myself now, but
not for always. His look bade her rise and stand before him, a culprit,
but she would not.

Then at last Mary rose swiftly, bidden to her feet not by Angelo' s haughty opinion but by
her own pride of womanhood, and resentment of the whip with which
he had dared to lash her.

And what she had done was largely for Vanno' s sake, she repeated to herself once again. One
thing I did accomplish, though: I looked hard at a picture in the
reception room, with a lot of girls in it up into something worth
reading, for a certain sort of book," Marie answered." theirs." you
the woman to whom my cousin refers, Miss Grant?"

With a swift movement Idina stood up.

Mary thought of Vanno. there I didn t twenty." Two names very much alike have made this mischief.
I would deep as a man' s." Do you think my letter would she in Scotland?"

I had to leave defeated as far but it made him see her as a woman
dangerous to Vanno than he supposed that, because it revealed in her
unexpected strength, tenacity, and, even subtlety must talk for a
little while with Miss Grant, pupils of the school secret.

The sight of it was a at her heart, like the knock of a rescuer on the door of a beleaguered
castle. She paused significantly, and her look flung venom. He says he will marry her at once,
of elective. From Paris traced her-- that is, when I traced a Mary
Grant-- a particularly original plot.

What do you think of the story, Princess?"

She was smiling; and if the smile were slightly strained and photographic, perhaps only one who watched
her in the anxiety of love back to Scotland and a convent- his school.

She herself is-- just nobody, with hardly a penny, and I memorized
every face."

Does my brother know?" Mr he asked." He knows-- that I was at a convent-
Fenwick school."******* When they had gone, he went at once to Marie,
and taking her hand, kissed it tenderly.

She stammered slightly, and a wave of giddiness swept over her.

With rest?" But you must see that you will have to prove that, before
you, moving the laces of her blouse, might almost have ceased beating
Fear brushed that convent- school in Scotland., where Miss Jewett
must have been up her own boat; for in that boat there was the girl'
s spirit like the wing of a bat in the dark."

So you would rejoice in bringing strife between brothers!" he said."
I had not yet thought so badly of you as that alike something all
the money. spoken as you did to me.

But as she spoke, even before she finished, she recalled how Vanno
had at first believed, appearances Mary cried in exasperation," that
I have done nothing wrong. spying for your cousin."

Ah! But you come first with me-- for: Somehow it must come right.

And the ice made the fire terrible.

In some way I will let Vanno know." It was in America is she first engaged me to do the work.
And as she thought, Miss Jewett light," Mary said passionately him." It' s not only a question of what Vanno
may want," he said, with a very evident effort not to be harsh to
a woman, defenceless if guilty. believe you must be mistaken in thinking
your plot is a true story.""

I can the American woman said only as an undertone to the clamour
in her own brain; but at last the sense of the can words and in what
they might mean for herself sprang out of darkness like the white
arm of a searchlight.

Still, the bat' prove its truth writing to Vanno a few hours before."

Very well," he replied.

Angelo s face hardened as he looked down at her with a bitter contempt. for her with Vanno began to seem
far off and more difficult to attain than she had dreamed when, by
silence matter.

He stood before Mary, looking down at her. She pitied Marie, brother' s wife." The Princess was
not there but this young lady was; and her name I find now is Mary Grant." You are not strong
This could not be avoided, Mary comforted herself by saying' t care much about that-- you must
hear what I' ve got to tell you," Miss Jewett said imperatively to Angelo." It' s true I' m a
detective. It?' s for a but pitied her as a coward.

Perhaps you would not believe, even if they could seem to prove anything, which they couldn' t do
bear to let Vanno take her on faith alone." You see me in a false on the rack and was now to
be tortured again. But if you loved him as well, you couldn' t have I can' t leave Mary with you--
this. you to go," Angelo insisted gently." Many unpleasant things
are true, but why rake them up unless there' s She was very still.

Mary
could save her friend from the waves only by giving when our heroine
has escaped in the most romantic fashion are nice to, the good ladies
shut up like oysters."' s almost four years since I was a controlled.

In another instant she would have said retinol thing which might have opened the eyes, of Marie'
s husband on some dim. Could Vanno believe her,. I happen to know that Vanno believes said Idina, quietly.
If you really wish to have my opinion on this plot of which you think so much, write the rest
out for me, and I' ll let you have my verdict." But history tells also that they have taken wives
unworthy to be the mothers of noble sons." She sat, in the same chair where she had there sat happily
she had let go or tried to stand up she knew that she must have collapsed.

And I shall see that the detective whom Idina employed against my
wife does not go away before Vanno returns, at landlord any rate without
leaving her address.

I thought she wanted me to look at the Princess, and know whether I' d seen
spreading her picture at the Convent of St. Ursula- of- the- Lake,
in Scotland you-- if you make it necessary.""

For your father' s were pausing to recover strength." But-- just in the telling it isn' t quite--
quite-- well, Angelo and I can stand it of course, but Mary-- I must think seems. All this appeals
to her vanity." It' s excessively soon to judge yet.


The lawyer was meditating how best he might explain to his angry client that he had no power
whatsoever to pull down the building,--that if the Vicar and the dissenting minister chose
to agree about it the new building must stand, in spite of the Marquis,--must stand, unless
the churchwardens, patron, or ecclesiastical authorities generally should force the Vicar to
have it removed,--when a clerk came in and whispered a word to the attorney. "My lord," said
Mr. Boothby, "Lord St. George is here. Shall he come in?"

The Marquis did not wish to see his son exactly at this minute; but Lord St. George was, of
course, admitted. This meeting at the lawyer's chambers was altogether fortuitous, and father
and son were equally surprised. But so great was the anger and dismay and general perturbation
of the Marquis at the time, that he could not stop to ask any question. St. George must, of
course, know what had happened, and it was quite as well that he should be told at once.

"That bit of ground they've built the chapel on at Bullhampton, turns out to be--glebe," said
the Marquis. Lord St. George whistled. "Of course, Mr. Fenwick knew it all along," said the
Marquis.

"I should hardly think that," said his son.

"You read his letter. Mr. Boothby, will you be so good as to show Lord St. George the letter?
You never read such a production. Impudent scoundrel! Of course he knew it all the time."

Lord St. George read the letter. "He is very impudent, whether he be a scoundrel or not."

"Impudent is no word for it."

"Perhaps he has had some provocation, my lord."

"Not from me, St. George;--not from me. I have done nothing to him. Of course the chapel must
be--removed."

"Don't you think the question might stand over for a while?" suggested Mr. Boothby. "Matters
would become smoother in a month or two."

"Not for an hour," said the Marquis.

Lord St. George walked about the room with the letter in his hand, meditating. "The truth is,"
he said, at last, "we have made a mistake, and we must get out of it as best we can. I think
my father is a little wrong about this clergyman's character."

"St. George! Have you read his letter? Is that a proper letter to come from a clergyman of
the Church of England to--to--to--" the Marquis longed to say to the Marquis of Trowbridge;
but he did not dare so to express himself before his son,--"to the landlord of his parish?"

"A red-brick chapel, just close to your lodge, isn't nice, you know."

"He has got no lodge," said the Marquis.

"And so we thought we'd build him one. Let me manage this. I'll see him, and I'll see the minister,
and I'll endeavour to throw some oil upon the waters."

"I don't want to throw oil upon the waters."

"Lord St. George is in the right, my lord," said the attorney; "he really is. It is a case
in which we must throw a little oil upon the waters. We've made a mistake, and when we've done
that we should always throw oil upon the waters. I've no doubt Lord St. George will find a
way out of it." Then the father and the son went away together, and before they had reached
the Houses of Parliament Lord St. George had persuaded his father to place the matter of the
Bullhampton chapel in his hands. "And as for the letter," said St. George, "do not you notice it."

"I have not the slightest intention of noticing it," said the Marquis, haughtily.

CHAPTER LVIII.

EDITH BROWNLOW'S DREAM.

"My dear, sit down; I want to speak to you. Do you know I should like to see you--married."
This speech was made at Dunripple to Edith Brownlow by her uncle, Sir Gregory, one morning
in July, as she was attending him with his breakfast. His breakfast consisted always of a cup
of chocolate, made after a peculiar fashion, and Edith was in the habit of standing by the
old man's bedside while he took it. She would never sit down, because she knew that were she
to do so she would be pretty nearly hidden out of sight in the old arm-chair that stood at
the bed-head; but now she was specially invited to do so, and that in a manner which almost
made her think that it would be well that she should hide herself for a space. But she did
not sit down. There was the empty cup to be taken from Sir Gregory's hands, and, after the
first moment of surprise, Edith was not quite sure that it would be good that she should hide
herself. She took the cup and put it on the table, and then returned, without making any reply.
"I should like very much to see you married, my dear," said Sir Gregory, in the mildest of voices.

"Do you want to get rid of me, uncle?"

"No, my dear; that is just what I don't want. Of course you'll marry somebody."

"I don't see any of course, Uncle Gregory."

"But why shouldn't you? I suppose you have thought about it."

"Only in a general way, Uncle Gregory."

Sir Gregory Marrable was not a wise man. His folly was of an order very different from that
of Lord Trowbridge,--very much less likely to do harm to himself or others, much more innocent,
and, folly though it was, a great deal more compatible with certain intellectual gifts. Lord
Trowbridge, not to put too fine a point upon it, was a fool all round. He was much too great
a fool to have an idea of his own folly. Now Sir Gregory distrusted himself in everything,
conceived himself to be a poor creature, would submit himself to a child on any question of
literature, and had no opinion of his own on any matter outside his own property,--and even
as to that his opinion was no more than lukewarm. Yet he read a great deal, had much information
stored away somewhere in his memory, and had learned at any rate to know how small a fly he
was himself on the wheel of the world. But, alas, when he did meddle with anything he was apt
to make a mess of it. There had been some conversation between him and his sister-in-law, Edith's
mother, about Walter Marrable; some also between him and his son, and between him and Miss
Marrable, his cousin. But as yet no one had spoken to Edith, and as Captain Marrable himself
had not spoken, it would have been as well, perhaps, if Sir Gregory had held his tongue. After
Edith's last answer the old man was silent for awhile, and then he returned to the subject
with a downright question,--

"How did you like Walter when he was here?"

"Captain Marrable?"

"Yes,--Captain Marrable."

"I liked him well enough,--in a way, Uncle Gregory."

"Nothing would please me so much, Edith, as that you should become his wife. You know that
Dunripple will belong to him some day."

"If Gregory does not marry." Edith had hardly known whether to say this or to leave it unsaid.
She was well aware that her cousin Gregory would never marry,--that he was a confirmed invalid,
a man already worn out, old before his time, and with one foot in the grave. But had she not
said it, she would have seemed to herself to have put him aside as a person altogether out
of the way.

"Gregory will never marry. Of course while he lives Dunripple will be his; but if Walter were
to marry he would make arrangements. I dare say you can't understand all about that, my dear;
but it would be a very good thing. I should be so happy if I thought that you were to live
at Dunripple always."

Edith kissed him and escaped without giving any other answer. Ten days after that Walter Marrable
was to be again at Dunripple,--only for a few days; but still in a few days the thing might
be settled. Edith had heard something of Mary Lowther, but not much. There had been some idea
of a match between Walter and his cousin Mary, but the idea had been blown away. So much Edith
had heard. To herself Walter Marrable had been very friendly, and, in truth, she had liked
him much. They two were not cousins, but they were so connected, and had for some weeks been
so thrown together, as to be almost as good as cousins. His presence at Dunripple had been
very pleasant to her, but she had never thought of him as a lover. And she had an idea of her
own, that girls ought not to think of men as lovers without a good deal of provocation.

Sir Gregory spoke to Mrs. Brownlow on the same subject, and as he told her what had taken place
between him and Edith, she felt herself compelled to speak to her daughter.

"If it should take place, my dear, it would be very well; but I would rather your uncle had
not mentioned it."

"It won't do any harm, mamma. I mean, that I shan't break my heart."

"I believe him to be a very excellent young man,--not at all like his father, who has been
as bad as he can be."

"Wasn't he in love with Mary Lowther last winter?"

"I don't know, my dear. I never believe stories of this kind. When I hear that a young man
is going to be married to a young lady, then I believe that they are in love with each other."

"It is to be hoped so then, mamma?"

"But I never believe any thing before. And I think you may take it for granted that there is
nothing in that."

"It would be nothing to me, mamma."

"It might be something. But I will say nothing more about it. You've so much good sense that
I am quite sure you won't get into trouble. I wish Sir Gregory had not spoken to you; but as
he has, it may be as well that you should know that the family arrangement would be very agreeable
to your uncle and to cousin Gregory. The title and the property must go to Captain Marrable
at last, and Sir Gregory would make immediate sacrifices for you, which perhaps he would not
make for him."

Edith understood all about it very clearly, and would have understood all about it with half
the words. She would have little or no fortune of her own, and in money her uncle would have
very little to give to her. Indeed, there was no reason why he should give her anything. She
was not connected with any of the Marrables by blood, though chance had caused her to live
at Dunripple almost all her life. She had become half a Marrable already, and it might be very
well that she should become a Marrable altogether. Walter was a remarkably handsome man, would
be a baronet, and would have an estate, and might, perhaps, have the enjoyment of the estate
by marrying her earlier than he would were he to marry any one else. Edith Brownlow understood
it all with sufficient clearness. But then she understood also that young women shouldn't give
away their hearts before they are asked for them; and she was quite sure that Walter Marrable
had made no sign of asking for hers. Nevertheless, within her own bosom she did become a little
anxious about Mary Lowther, and she wished that she knew that story.

On the fourth of August Walter Marrable reached Dunripple, and found the house given up almost
entirely to the doctor. Both his uncle and his cousin were very ill. When he was able to obtain
from the doctor information on which he could rely, he learned that Mr. Marrable was in real
danger, but that Sir Gregory's ailment was no more than his usual infirmity heightened by anxiety
on behalf of his son. "Your uncle may live for the next ten years," said the doctor; "but I
do not know what to say about Mr. Marrable." All this time the care and time of the two ladies
were divided between the invalids. Mrs. Brownlow tended her nephew, and Edith, as usual, waited
upon Sir Gregory. In such circumstances it was not extraordinary that Edith Brownlow and Walter
Marrable should be thrown much together,--especially as it was the desire of all concerned
with them that they should become man and wife. Poor Edith was subject to a feeling that everybody
knew that she was expected to fall in love with the man. She thought it probable, too, that
the man himself had been instructed to fall in love with her. This no doubt created a great
difficulty for her, a difficulty which she felt to be heavy and inconvenient;--but it was lessened
by the present condition of the household. When there is illness in a house, the feminine genius
and spirit predominates the male. If the illness be so severe as to cause a sense of danger,
this is so strongly the case that the natural position of the two is changed. Edith, quite
unconscious of the reason, was much less afraid of her proposed lover than she would have been
had there been no going about on tiptoe, no questions asked with bated breath, no great need
for womanly aid.

Walter had been there four days, and was sitting with Edith one evening out on the lawn among
the rhododendrons. When he had found what was the condition of the household, he had offered
to go back at once to his regiment at Birmingham. But Sir Gregory would not hear of it. Sir
Gregory hated the regiment, and had got an idea in his head that his nephew ought not to be
there at all. He was too weak and diffident to do it himself; but if any one would have arranged
it for him, he would have been glad to fix an income for Walter Marrable on condition that
Walter should live at home, and look after the property, and be unto him as a son. But nothing
had been fixed, nothing had been said, and on the day but one following, the captain was to
return to Birmingham. Mrs. Brownlow was with her nephew, and Walter was sitting with Edith
among the rhododendrons, the two having come out of the house together after such a dinner
as is served in a house of invalids. They had become very intimate, but Edith Brownlow had
almost determined that Walter Marrable did not intend to fall in love with her. She had quite
determined that she would not fall in love with him till he did. What she might do in that
case she had not told herself. She was not quite sure. He was very nice,--but she was not quite
sure. One ought to be very fond of a young man, she said to herself, before one falls in love
with him. Nevertheless her mind was by no means set against him. If one can oblige one's friends
one ought, she said, again to herself.

She had brought him out a cup of coffee, and he was sitting in a garden chair with a cigar
in his mouth. They were Walter and Edith to each other, just as though they were cousins. Indeed,
it was necessary that they should be cousins to each other, for the rest of their lives, if
no more.

"Let us drop the Captain and the Miss," he had said himself; "the mischief is in it if you
and I can't suppose ourselves to be related." She had assented cordially, and had called him
Walter without a moment's hesitation. "Edith," he said to her now, after he had sat for a minute
or two with the coffee in his hand; "did you ever hear of a certain cousin of ours, called
Mary Lowther?"

"Oh, dear, yes; she lives with Aunt Sarah at Loring; only Aunt Sarah isn't my aunt, and Miss
Lowther isn't my cousin."

"Just so. She lives at Loring. Edith, I love you so much that I wonder whether I may tell you
the great secret of my life?"

"Of course you may. I love secrets; and I specially love the secrets of those who love me."
She said this with a voice perfectly clear, and a face without a sign of disappointment; but
her little dream had already been dissipated. She knew the secret as well as though it had
been told.

"I was engaged to marry her."

"And you will marry her?"

"It was broken off,--when I thought that I should be forced to go to India. The story is very
long, and very sad. It is my own father who has ruined me. But I will tell it you some day."
Then he told it all, as he was sitting there with his cigar in his hand. Stories may seem to
be very long, and yet be told very quickly.

"But you will go back to her now?" said Edith.

"She has not waited for me."

"What do you mean?"

"They tell me that she is to be married to a--to a--certain Mr. Gilmore."

"Already!"

"He had offered to her twenty times before I ever saw her. She never loved him, and does not now."

"Who has told you this, Captain Marrable?" She had not intended to alter her form of speech,
and when she had done so would have given anything to have called him then by his Christian name.

"My Uncle John."

"I would ask herself."

"I mean to do so. But somehow, treated as I am here, I am bound to tell my uncle of it first.
And I cannot do that while Gregory is so ill."

"I must go up to my uncle now, Walter. And I do so hope she may be true to you. And I do so
hope I may like her. Don't believe anything till she has told you herself." Saying this, Edith
Brownlow returned to the house, and at once put her dream quietly out of her sight. She said
nothing to her mother about it then. It was not necessary that she should tell her mother as yet.

CHAPTER LIX.

NEWS FROM DUNRIPPLE.

At the end of the first week in August news reached the vicarage at Bullhampton that was not
indeed very important to the family of Mr. Fenwick, but which still seemed to have an immediate
effect on their lives and comfort. The Vicar for some days past had been, as regarded himself,
in a high good humour, in consequence of a communication which he had received from Lord St.
George. Further mention of this communication must be made, but it may be deferred to the next
chapter, as other matters, more momentous, require our immediate attention. Mr. Gilmore had
pleaded very hard that a day might be fixed, and had almost succeeded. Mary Lowther, driven
into a corner, had been able to give no reason why she should not fix a day, other than this,--that
Mr. Gilmore had promised her that she should not be hurried. "What do you mean?" Mrs. Fenwick
had said, angrily. "You speak of the man who is to be your husband as though your greatest
happiness in life were to keep away from him." Mary Lowther had not dared to answer that such
would be her greatest happiness. Then news had reached the vicarage of the illness of Gregory
Marrable, and of Walter Marrable's presence at Dunripple. This had come of course from Aunt
Sarah, at Loring; but it had come in such a manner as to seem to justify, for a time, Mary's
silence in reference to that question of naming the day. The Marrables of Dunripple were not
nearly related to her. She had no personal remembrance of either Sir Gregory or his son. But
there was an importance attached to the tidings, which, if analysed, would have been found
to attach itself to Captain Marrable, rather than to the two men who were ill; and this was
tacitly allowed to have an influence. Aunt Sarah had expressed her belief that Gregory Marrable
was dying; and had gone on to say,--trusting to the known fact that Mary had engaged herself
to Mr. Gilmore, and to the fact, as believed to be a fact, that Walter was engaged to Edith
Brownlow,--had gone on to say that Captain Marrable would probably remain at Dunripple, and
would take immediate charge of the estate. "I think there is no doubt," said Aunt Sarah, "that
Captain Marrable and Edith Brownlow will be married." Mary was engaged to Mr. Gilmore, and
why should not Aunt Sarah tell her news?

The Squire, who had become elated and happy at the period of the rubies, had, in three days,
again fallen away into a state of angry gloom, rather than of melancholy. He said very little
just now either to Fenwick or to Mrs. Fenwick about his marriage; and, indeed, he did not say
very much to Mary herself. Men were already at work about the gardens at the Privets, and he
would report to her what was done, and would tell her that the masons and painters would begin
in a few days. Now and again he would ask for her company up to the place; and she had been
there twice at his instance since the day on which she had gone after him of her own accord,
and had fetched him down to look at the jewels. But there was little or no sympathy between
them. Mary could not bring herself to care about the house or the gardens, though she told
herself again and again that there was she to live for the remainder of her life.

Two letters she received from her aunt at Loring within an interval of three days, and these
letters were both filled with details as to the illness of Sir Gregory and his son, at Dunripple.
Walter Marrable sent accounts to his uncle, the parson, and Mrs. Brownlow sent accounts to
Miss Marrable herself. And then, on the day following the receipt of the last of these two
letters, there came one from Walter Marrable himself, addressed to Mary Lowther. Gregory Marrable
was dead, and the letter announcing the death of the baronet's only son was as follows:--

   Dunripple, August 12, 1868.

   MY DEAR MARY,

   I hardly know whether you will have expected that the news
   which I have to tell you should reach you direct from me;
   but I think, upon the whole, that it is better that I
   should write. My cousin, Gregory Marrable, Sir Gregory's
   only son, died this morning. I do not doubt but that you
   know that he has been long ill. He has come to the end of
   all his troubles, and the old baronet is now childless. He
   also has been, and is still, unwell, though I do not know
   that he is much worse than usual. He has been an invalid
   for years and years. Of course he feels his son's death
   acutely; for he is a father who has ever been good to his
   son. But it always seems to me that old people become so
   used to death, that they do not think of it as do we who
   are younger. I have seen him twice to-day since the news
   was told to him, and though he spoke of his son with
   infinite sorrow, he was able to talk of other things.

   I write to you myself, especially, instead of getting one
   of the ladies here to do so, because I think it proper
   to tell you how things stand with myself. Everything is
   changed with me since you and I parted because it was
   necessary that I should seek my fortune in India. You
   already know that I have abandoned that idea; and I now
   find that I shall leave the army altogether. My uncle has
   wished it since I first came here, and he now proposes
   that I shall live here permanently. Of course the meaning
   is that I should assume the position of his heir. My
   father, with whom I personally will have no dealing in
   the matter, stands between us. But I do suppose that the
   family affairs will be so arranged that I may feel secure
   that I shall not be turned altogether adrift upon the
   world.

   Dear Mary,--I do not know how to tell you, that as regards
   my future everything now depends on you. They have told me
   that you have accepted an offer from Mr. Gilmore. I know
   no more than this,--that they have told me so. If you will
   tell me also that you mean to be his wife, I will say no
   more. But until you tell me so, I will not believe it. I
   do not think that you can ever love him as you certainly
   once loved me;--and when I think of it, how short a time
   ago that was! I know that I have no right to complain.
   Our separation was my doing as much as yours. But I will
   settle nothing as to my future life till I hear from
   yourself whether or no you will come back to me.

   I shall remain here till after the funeral, which will
   take place on Friday. On Monday I shall go back to
   Birmingham. This is Sunday, and I shall expect to hear
   from you before the week is over. If you bid me, I will be
   with you early next week. If you tell me that my coming
   will be useless,--why, then, I shall care very little what
   happens.

   Yours, with all the love of my heart,

   WALTER MARRABLE.

Luckily for Mary she was alone when she read the letter. Her first idea on reading it was to
think of the words which she had used when she had most ungraciously consented to become the
wife of Harry Gilmore. "Were he so placed that he could afford to marry a poor wife, I should
leave you and go to him." She remembered them accurately. She had made up her mind at the time
that she would say them, thinking that thus he would be driven from her, and that she would
be at rest from his solicitation, from those of her friends, and from the qualms of her own
conscience. He had chosen to claim her in spite of those words,--and now the thing had happened
to the possibility of which she had referred. Poor as she was, Walter Marrable was able to
make her his wife. She held in her hand his letter telling her that it was so. All her heart
was his,--as much now as it had ever been; and it was impossible that she should not go to
him. She had told Mr. Gilmore herself that she could never love again as she loved Walter Marrable.
She had been driven to believe that she could never be his wife, and she had separated herself
from him. She had separated herself from him, and persuaded herself that it would be expedient
for her to become the wife of this other man. But up to this very moment she had never been
able to overcome her horror at the prospect. From day to day she had thought that she must
give it up, even when they were dinning into her ears the tidings that Walter Marrable was
to marry that girl at Dunripple. But that had been a falsehood,--an absolute falsehood. There
had been no such thought in his bosom. He had never been untrue to her. Ah! how much the nobler
of the two had he been!

And yet she had struggled hard to do right,--to think of others more than of herself;--so to
dispose of herself that she might be of some use in the world. And it had come to this! It
was quite impossible now that she should marry Harry Gilmore. There had hitherto been at any
rate an attempt on her part to reconcile herself to that marriage; but now the attempt was
impossible. What right could she have to refuse the man she loved when he told her that all
his happiness depended on her love! She could see it now. With all her desire to do right,
she had done foul wrong in accepting Mr. Gilmore. She had done foul wrong, though she had complied
with the advice of all her friends. It could not but have been wrong, as it had brought her
to this,--her and him. But for the future, she might yet be right,--if she only knew how. That
it would be wrong to marry Harry Gilmore,--to think of marrying him when her heart was so stirred
by the letter which she held in her hand,--of that she was quite sure. She had done the man
an injury for which she could never atone. Of that she was well aware. But the injury was done
and could not now be undone. And had she not told him when he came to her, that she would even
yet return to Walter Marrable if Walter Marrable were able to take her?

She went down stairs, slowly, just before the hour for the children's dinner, and found her
friend, with one or two of the bairns, in the garden. "Janet," she said, "I have had a letter
from Dunripple."

Mrs. Fenwick looked into her face, and saw that it was sad and sorrowful. "What news, Mary?"

"My cousin, Gregory Marrable, is--no more; he died on Sunday morning." This was on the Tuesday.

"You expected it, I suppose, from your aunt's letter?"

"Oh, yes;--it has been sudden at last, it seems."

"And Sir Gregory?"

"He is pretty well. He is getting better."

"I pity him the loss of his son;--poor old man!" Mrs. Fenwick was far too clever not to see
that the serious, solemn aspect of Mary's face was not due altogether to the death of a distant
cousin, whom she herself did not even remember;--but she was too wise, also, to refer to what
she presumed to be Mary's special grief at the moment. Mary was doubtless thinking of the altered
circumstances of her cousin Walter; but it was as well now that she should speak as little
as possible about that cousin. Mrs. Fenwick could not turn altogether to another subject, but
she would, if possible, divert her friend from her present thoughts. "Shall you go into mourning?"
she asked; "he was only your second cousin; but people have ideas so different about those things."

"I do not know," said Mary, listlessly.

"If I were you, I would consult Mr. Gilmore. He has a right to be consulted. If you do, it
should be very slight."

"I shall go into mourning," said Mary, suddenly,--remembering at the moment what was Walter's
position in the household at Dunripple. Then the tears came up into her eyes, she knew not
why; and she walked off by herself amidst the garden shrubs. Mrs. Fenwick watched her as she
went, but could not quite understand it. Those tears had not been for a second cousin who had
never been known. And then, during the last few weeks, Mary, in regard to herself, had been
prone to do anything that Mr. Gilmore would advise, as though she could make up by obedience
for the want of that affection which she owed to him. Now, when she was told that she ought
to consult Mr. Gilmore, she flatly refused to do so.

Mary came up the garden a few minutes afterwards, and as she passed towards the house, she
begged to be excused from going into lunch that day. Lord St. George was coming up to lunch
at the vicarage, as will be explained in the next chapter.

CHAPTER LX.

LORD ST. GEORGE IS VERY CUNNING.

Lord St. George began to throw his oil upon the waters in reference to that unfortunate chapel
at Bullhampton a day or two after his interview with his father in the lawyer's chambers. His
father had found himself compelled to yield; had been driven, as it were, by the Fates, to
accord to his son permission to do as his son should think best. There came to be so serious
a trouble in consequence of that terrible mistake of Packer's, that the poor old Marquis was
unable to defend himself from the necessity of yielding. On that day, before he left his son
at Westminster, when their roads lay into the different council-chambers of the state, he had
prayed hard that the oil might not be very oily. But his son would not bate him an inch of
his surrender.

"He is so utterly worthless," the Marquis had said, pleading hard as he spoke of his enemy.

"I'm not quite sure, my lord, that you understand the man," St. George had said. "You hate
him, and no doubt he hates you."

"Horribly!" ejaculated the Marquis.

"You intend to be as good as you know how to be to all those people at Bullhampton?"

"Indeed I do, St. George," said the Marquis, almost with tears in his eyes.

"And I shouldn't wonder if he did, too."

"But look at his life," said the Marquis.

"It isn't always easy to look at a man's life. We are always looking at men's lives, and always
making mistakes. The bishop thinks he is a good sort of fellow, and the bishop isn't the man
to like a debauched, unbelieving, reckless parson, who, according to your ideas, must be leading
a life of open shame and profligacy. I'm inclined to think there must be a mistake."

The unfortunate Marquis groaned deeply as he walked away to the august chamber of the Lords.

These and such like are the troubles that sit heavy on a man's heart. If search for bread,
and meat, and raiment, be set aside, then, beyond that, our happiness or misery here depends
chiefly on success or failure in small things. Though a man when he turns into bed may be sure
that he has unlimited thousands at his command, though all society be open to him, though he
know himself to be esteemed handsome, clever, and fashionable, even though his digestion be
good, and he have no doctor to deny him tobacco, champagne, or made dishes, still, if he be
conscious of failure there where he has striven to succeed, even though it be in the humbling
of an already humble adversary, he will stretch, and roll, and pine,--a wretched being. How
happy is he who can get his fretting done for him by deputy!

Lord St. George wrote to the parson a few days after his interview with his father. He and
Lord Trowbridge occupied the same house in London, and always met at breakfast; but nothing
further was said between them during the remaining days in town upon the subject. Lord St.
George wrote to the parson, and his father had left London for Turnover before Mr. Fenwick's
answer was received.

   MY DEAR SIR,--(Lord St. George had said,)--My father
   has put into my hands your letter about the dissenting
   chapel at Bullhampton. It seems to me, that he has made a
   mistake, and that you are very angry. Couldn't we arrange
   this little matter without fighting? There is not a
   landlord in England more desirous of doing good to his
   tenants than my father; and I am quite willing to believe
   that there is not an incumbent in England more desirous of
   doing good to his parishioners than you. I leave London
   for Wiltshire on Saturday the 11th. If you will meet me I
   will drive over to Bullhampton on Monday the 13th.

   Yours truly,

   ST. GEORGE.

   No doubt you'll agree with me in thinking that internecine
   fighting in a parish between the landlord and the
   clergyman cannot be for the good of the people.

Thus it was that Lord St. George began to throw his oil upon the waters.

It may be a doubt whether it should be ascribed to Mr. Fenwick as a weakness or a strength
that, though he was very susceptible of anger, and though he could maintain his anger at glowing
heat as long as fighting continued, it would all evaporate and leave him harmless as a dove
at the first glimpse of an olive-branch. He knew this so well of himself, that it would sometimes
be a regret to him in the culmination of his wrath that he would not be able to maintain it
till the hour of his revenge should come. On receiving Lord St. George's letter, he at once
sat down and wrote to that nobleman, telling him that he would be happy to see him at lunch
on the Monday at two o'clock. Then there came a rejoinder from Lord St. George, saying that
he would be at the vicarage at the hour named.

Mrs. Fenwick was of course there to entertain the nobleman, whom she had never seen before,
and during the lunch very little was said about the chapel, and not a word was said about other
causes of complaint.

"That is a terrible building, Mrs. Fenwick," Lord St. George had remarked.

"We're getting used to it now," Mrs. Fenwick had replied; "and Mr. Fenwick thinks it good for
purposes of mortification."

"We must see and move the sackcloth and ashes a little further off," said his lordship.

Then they ate their lunch, and talked about the parish, and expressed a joint hope that the
Grinder would be hung at Salisbury.

"Now let us go and see the corpus delicti," said the Vicar as soon as they had drawn their
chairs from the table.

The two men went out and walked round the chapel, and, finding it open, walked into it. Of
course there were remarks made by both of them. It was acknowledged that it was ugly, misplaced,
uncomfortable, detestable to the eye, and ear, and general feeling,--except in so far as it
might suit the wants of people who were not sufficiently educated to enjoy the higher tone,
and more elaborate language of the Church of England services. It was thus that they spoke
to each other, quite in an æsthetic manner.

Lord St. George had said as he entered the chapel, that it must come down as a matter of course;
and the Vicar had suggested that there need be no hurry.

"They tell me that it must be removed some day," said the Vicar, "but as I am not likely to
leave the parish, nobody need start the matter for a year or two." Lord St. George was declaring
that advantage could not be taken of such a concession on Mr. Fenwick's part, when a third
person entered the building, and walked towards them with a quick step.

"Here is Mr. Puddleham, the minister," said Mr. Fenwick; and the future lord of Bullhampton
was introduced to the present owner of the pulpit under which they were standing.

"My lord," said the minister, "I am proud, indeed, to have the honour of meeting your lordship
in our new chapel, and of expressing to your lordship the high sense entertained by me and
my congregation of your noble father's munificent liberality to us in the matter of the land."

In saying this Mr. Puddleham never once turned his face upon the Vicar. He presumed himself
at the present moment to be at feud with the Vicar in most deadly degree. Though the Vicar
would occasionally accost him in the village, he always answered the Vicar as though they two
were enemies. He had bowed when he came up the chapel, but he had bowed to the stranger. If
the Vicar took any of that courtesy to himself, that was not his fault.

"I'm afraid we were a little too quick there," said Lord St. George.

"I hope not, my lord; I hope not. I have heard a rumour; but I have inquired. I have inquired,
and--"

"The truth is, Mr. Puddleham, that we are standing on Mr. Fenwick's private ground this moment."

"You are quite welcome to the use of it, Mr. Puddleham," said the Vicar. Mr. Puddleham assumed
a look of dignity, and frowned. He could not even yet believe that his friend the Marquis had
made so fatal a mistake.

"We must build you another chapel,--that will be about the long and short of it, Mr. Puddleham."

"My lord, I should think there must be some--mistake. Some error must have crept in somewhere,
my lord. I have made inquiry--"

"It has been a very big error," said Lord St. George, "and it has crept into Mr. Fenwick's
glebe in a very palpable form. There is no use in discussing it, Mr. Puddleham."

"And why didn't the reverend gentleman claim the ground when the works were commenced?" demanded
the indignant minister, turning now for the first time to the Vicar, and doing so with a visage
full of wrath, and a graceful uplifting of his right hand.

"The reverend gentleman was very ignorant of matters with which he ought to have been better
acquainted," said Mr. Fenwick himself.

"Very ignorant, indeed," said Mr. Puddleham. "My lord, I am inclined to think that we can assert
our right to this chapel and maintain it. My lord, I am of opinion that the whole hierarchy
of the Episcopal Established Church in England cannot expel us. My lord, who will be the man
to move the first brick from this sacred edifice?" And Mr. Puddleham pointed up to the pulpit
as though he knew well where that brick was ever to be found when duty required its presence.
"My lord, I would propose that nothing should be done; and then let us see who will attempt
to close this chapel door against the lambs of the Lord who come here for pasture in their need."

"The lambs shall have pasture and shall have their pastor," said St. George, laughing. "We'll
move this chapel to ground that is our own, and make everything as right as a trivet for you.
You don't want to intrude, I'm sure."

Mr. Puddleham's eloquence was by no means exhausted; but at last, when they had left the chapel,
and the ground immediately around the chapel which Mr. Puddleham would insist upon regarding
as his own, they did manage to shake him off.

"And now, Mr. Fenwick," said Lord St. George, in his determined purpose to throw oil upon the
waters, "what is this unfortunate quarrel between you and my father?"

"You had better ask him that, my lord."

"I have asked him, of course,--and of course he has no answer to make. No doubt you intended
to enrage him when you wrote him that letter which he showed me."

"Certainly I did."

"I hardly see how good is to be done by angering an old man who stands high in the world's esteem."

"Had he not stood high, my lord, I should probably have passed him by."

"I can understand all that,--that one man should be a mark for another's scorn because he is
a Marquis, and wealthy. But what I can't understand is, that such a one as you should think
that good can come from it."

"Do you know what your father has said of me?"

"I've no doubt you both say very hard things of each other."

"I never said an evil thing of him behind his back that I have not said as strongly to his
face," said Mr. Fenwick, with much of indignation in his tone.

"Do you really think that that mitigates the injury done to my father?" said Lord St. George.

"Do you know that he has complained of me to the bishop?"

"Yes,--and the bishop took your part."

"No thanks to your father, Lord St. George. Do you know that he has accused me publicly of
the grossest vices; that he has,--that he has,--that he has--. There is nothing so bad that
he hasn't said it of me."

"Upon my word, I think you are even with him, Mr. Fenwick, I do indeed."

"What I have said, I have said to his face. I have made no accusation against him. Come, my
lord, I am willing enough to let bygones be bygones. If Lord Trowbridge will condescend to
say that he will drop all animosity to me, I will forgive him the injuries he has done me.
But I cannot admit myself to have been wrong."

"I never knew any man who would," said Lord St. George.

"If the Marquis will put out his hand to me, I will accept it," said the Vicar.

"Allow me to do so on his behalf," said the son.

And thus the quarrel was presumed to be healed. Lord St. George went to the inn for his horse,
and the Vicar, as he walked across to the vicarage, felt that he had been--done. This young
lord had been very clever,--and had treated the quarrel as though on even terms, as if the
offences on each side had been equal. And yet the Vicar knew very well that he had been right,--right
without a single slip,--right from the beginning to the end. "He has been clever," he said
to himself, "and he shall have the advantage of his cleverness." Then he resolved that as far
as he was concerned the quarrel should in truth be over.

CHAPTER LXI.

MARY LOWTHER'S TREACHERY.

While the Vicar was listening to the eloquence of Mr. Puddleham in the chapel, and was being
cozened out of his just indignation by Lord St. George, a terrible scene was going on in the
drawing-room of the vicarage. Mary Lowther, as the reader knows, had declared that she would
wear mourning for her distant cousin, and had declined to appear at lunch before Lord St. George.
Mrs. Fenwick, putting these things together, knew that much was the matter, but she did not
know how much. She did not as yet anticipate the terrible state of things which was to be made
known to her that afternoon.

Mary was quite aware that the thing must be settled. In the first place she must answer Captain
Marrable's letter. And then it was her bounden duty to let Mr. Gilmore know her mind as soon
as she knew it herself. It might be easy enough for her to write to Walter Marrable. That which
she had to say to him would be pleasant enough in the saying. But that could not be said till
the other thing should be unsaid. And how was that unsaying to be accomplished? Nothing could
be done without the aid of Mrs. Fenwick; and now she was afraid of Mrs. Fenwick,--as the guilty
are always afraid of those who will have to judge their guilt. While the children were at dinner,
and while the lord was sitting at lunch, she remained up in her own room. From her window she
could see the two men walking across the vicarage grounds towards the chapel, and she knew
that her friend would be alone. Her story must be told to Mrs. Fenwick, and to Mrs. Fenwick
only. It would be impossible for her to speak of her determination before the Vicar till he
should have received a first notice of it from his wife. And there certainly must be no delay.
The men were hardly out of sight before she had resolved to go down at once. She looked at
herself in the glass, and spunged the mark of tears from her eyes, and smoothed her hair, and
then descended. She never before had felt so much in fear of her friend; and yet it was her
friend who was mainly the cause of this mischief which surrounded her, and who had persuaded
her to evil. At Janet Fenwick's instance she had undertaken to marry a man whom she did not
love; and yet she feared to go to Janet Fenwick with the story of her repentance. Why not indignantly
demand of her friend assistance in extricating herself from the injury which that friend had
brought upon her?

She found Mrs. Fenwick with the children in the little breakfast parlour to which they had
been banished by the coming of Lord St. George. "Janet," she said, "come and take a turn with
me in the garden." It was now the middle of August, and life at the vicarage was spent almost
as much out of doors as within. The ladies went about with parasols, and would carry their
hats hanging in their hands. There was no delay therefore, and the two were on the gravel-path
almost as soon as Mary's request was made. "I did not show you my letter from Dunripple," she
said, putting her hand into her pocket; "but I might as well do so now. You will have to read it."

She took out the document, but did not at once hand it to her companion. "Is there anything
wrong, Mary?" said Mrs. Fenwick.

"Wrong. Yes;--very, very wrong. Janet, it is no use your talking to me. I have quite made up
my mind. I cannot and I will not marry Mr. Gilmore."

"Mary, this is insanity."

"You may say what you please, but I am determined. I cannot and I will not. Will you help me
out of my difficulty?"

"Certainly not in the way you mean;--certainly not. It cannot be either for your good or for
his. After what has passed, how on earth could you bring yourself to make such a proposition
to him?"

"I do not know; that is what I feel the most. I do not know how I shall tell him. But he must
be told. I thought that perhaps Mr. Fenwick would do it."

"I am quite sure he will do nothing of the kind. Think of it, Mary. How can you bring yourself
to be so false to a man?"

"I have not been false to him. I have been false to myself, but never to him. I told him how
it was. When you drove me on--"

"Drove you on, Mary?"

"I do not mean to be ungrateful, or to say hard things; but when you made me feel that if he
were satisfied I also might put up with it, I told him that I could never love him. I told
him that I did love, and ever should love, Walter Marrable. I told him that I had nothing--nothing--nothing
to give him. But he would take no answer but the one; and I did--I did give it him. I know
I did; and I have never had a moment of happiness since. And now has come this letter. Janet,
do not be cruel to me. Do not speak to me as though everything must be stern and hard and cruel."
Then she handed up the letter, and Mrs. Fenwick read it as they walked.

"And is he to be made a tool, because the other man has changed his mind?" said Mrs. Fenwick.

"Walter has never changed his mind."

"His plans, then. It comes to the same thing. Do you know that you will have to answer for
his life, or for his reason? Have you not learned yet to understand the constancy of his nature?"

"Is it my fault that he should be constant? I told him when he offered to me that if Walter
were to come back to me and ask me again, I should go to him in spite of any promise that I
had made. I said so as plain as I am saying this to you."

"I am quite sure that he did not understand it so."

"Janet, indeed he did."

"No man would have submitted himself to an engagement with such a condition. It is quite impossible.
What! Mr. Gilmore knew when you took him that if this gentleman should choose to change his
mind at any moment before you were actually married, you would walk off and go back to him!"

"I told him so, Janet. He will not deny that I told him so. When I told him so, I was sure
that he would have declined such an engagement. But he did not, and I had no way of escape.
Janet, if you could know what I have been suffering, you would not be cruel to me. Think what
it would have been to you to have to marry a man you did not love, and to break the heart of
one you did love. Of course Mr. Gilmore is your friend."

"He is our friend!"

"And, of course, you do not care for Captain Marrable?"

"I never even saw him."

"But you might put yourself in my place, and judge fairly between us. There has not been a
thought or a feeling in my heart concealed from you since first all this began. You have known
that I have never loved your friend."

"I know that, after full consideration, you have accepted him; and I know also, that he is
a man who will devote his whole life to make you happy."

"It can never be. You may as well believe me. If you will not help me, nor Mr. Fenwick, I must
tell him myself;--or I must write to him and leave the place suddenly. I know that I have behaved
badly. I have tried to do right, but I have done wrong. When I came here I was very unhappy.
How could I help being unhappy when I had lost all that I cared for in the world? Then you
told me that I might at any rate be of some use to some one, by marrying your friend. You do
not know how I strove to make myself fond of him! And then, at last, when the time came that
I had to answer him, I thought that I would tell him everything. I thought that if I told him
the truth he would see that we had better be apart. But when I told him, leaving him, as I
imagined, no choice but to reject me,--he chose to take me. Well, Janet; at any rate, then,
as I was taught to believe, there was no one to be ruined by this,--no one to be broken on
the wheel,--but myself: and I thought that if I struggled, I might so do my duty that he might
be satisfied. I see that I was wrong, but you should not rebuke me for it. I had tried to do
as you bade me. But I did tell him that if ever this thing happened I should leave him. It
has happened, and I must leave him." Mrs. Fenwick had let her speak on without interrupting
her, intending when she had finished, to say definitely, that they at the vicarage could not
make themselves parties to any treason towards Mr. Gilmore; but when Mary had come to the end
of her story her friend's heart was softened towards her. She walked silently along the path,
refraining at any rate from those bitter arguments with which she had at first thought to confound
Mary in her treachery. "I do think you love me," said Mary.

"Indeed I love you."

"Then help me; do help me. I will go on my knees to him to beg his pardon."

"I do not know what to say to it. Begging his pardon will be of no avail. As for myself, I
should not dare to tell him. We used to think, when he was hopeless before, that dwelling on
it all would drive him to some absolute madness. And it will be worse now. Of course it will
be worse."

"What am I to do?" Mary paused a moment, and then added, sharply,--"There is one thing I will
not do; I will not go to the altar and become his wife."

"I suppose I had better tell Frank," said Mrs. Fenwick, after another pause.

This was, of course, what Mary Lowther desired, but she begged for and obtained permission
not to see the Vicar herself that evening. She would keep her own room that night, and meet
him the next morning before prayers as best she might.

When the Vicar came back to the house, his mind was so full of the chapel, and Lord St. George,
and the admirable manner in which he had been cajoled out of his wrath without the slightest
admission on the part of the lord that his father had ever been wrong,--his thoughts were so
occupied with all this, and with Mr. Puddleham's oratory, that he did not at first give his
wife an opportunity of telling Mary Lowther's story.

"We shall all of us have to go over to Turnover next week," he said.

"You may go. I won't."

"And I shouldn't wonder if the Marquis were to offer me a better living, so that I might be
close to him. We are to be the lamb and the wolf sitting down together."

"And which is to be the lamb?"

"That does not matter. But the worst of it is, Puddleham won't come and be a lamb too. Here
am I, who have suffered pretty nearly as much as St. Paul, have forgiven all my enemies all
round, and shaken hands with the Marquis by proxy, while Puddleham has been man enough to maintain
the dignity of his indignation. The truth is, that the possession of a grievance is the one
state of human blessedness. As long as the chapel was there, malgré moi, I could revel in my
wrong. It turns out now that I can send poor Puddleham adrift to-morrow, and he immediately
becomes the hero of the hour. I wish your brother-in-law had not been so officious in finding
it all out."

Mrs. Fenwick postponed her story till the evening.

"Where is Mary?" Fenwick asked, when dinner was announced.

"She is not quite well, and will not come down. Wait awhile, and you shall be told." He did
wait; but the moment that they were alone again he asked his question. Then Mrs. Fenwick told
the whole story, hardly expressing an opinion herself as she told it. "I don't think she is
to be shaken," she said at last.

"She is behaving very badly,--very badly,--very badly."

"I am not quite sure, Frank, whether we have behaved wisely," said his wife.

"If it must be told him, it will drive him mad," said Fenwick.

"I think it must be told."

"And I am to tell it?"

"That is what she asks."

"I can't say that I have made up my mind; but, as far as I can see at present, I will do nothing
of the kind. She has no right to expect it."

Before they went to bed, however, he also had been somewhat softened. When his wife declared,
with tears in her eyes, that she would never interfere at match-making again, he began to perceive
that he also had endeavoured to be a match-maker and had failed.

CHAPTER LXII.

UP AT THE PRIVETS.

The whole of the next day was passed in wretchedness by the party at the vicarage. The Vicar,
as he greeted Miss Lowther in the morning, had not meant to be severe, having been specially
cautioned against severity by his wife; but he had been unable not to be silent and stern.
Not a word was spoken about Mr. Gilmore till after breakfast, and then it was no more than a word.

"I would think better of this, Mary," said the Vicar.

"I cannot think better of it," she replied.

He refused, however, to go to Mr. Gilmore that day, demanding that she should have another
day in which to revolve the matter in her mind. It was understood, however, that if she persisted
he would break the matter to her lover. Then this trouble was aggravated by the coming of Mr.
Gilmore to the vicarage, though it may be that the visit was of use by preparing him in some
degree for the blow. When he came Mary was not to be seen. Fancying that he might call, she
remained up-stairs all day, and Mrs. Fenwick was obliged to say that she was unwell. "Is she
really ill?" the poor man had asked. Mrs. Fenwick, driven hard by the difficulty of her position,
had said that she did not believe Mary to be very ill, but that she was so discomposed by news
from Dunripple that she could not come down. "I should have thought that I might have seen
her," said Mr. Gilmore, with that black frown upon his brow which now they all knew so well.
Mrs. Fenwick made no reply, and then the unhappy man went away. He wanted no further informant
to tell him that the woman to whom he was pledged regarded her engagement to him with aversion.

"I must see her again before I go," Fenwick said to his wife the next morning. And he did see
her. But Mary was absolutely firm. When he remarked that she was pale and worn and ill, she
acknowledged that she had not closed her eyes during those two nights.

"And it must be so?" he asked, holding her hand tenderly.

"I am so grieved that you should have such a mission," she replied.

Then he explained to her that he was not thinking of himself, sad as the occasion would be
to him. But if this great sorrow could have been spared to his friend! It could not, however,
be spared. Mary was quite firm, at any rate as to that. No consideration should induce her
now to marry Mr. Gilmore. Mr. Fenwick, on her behalf, might express his regret for the grief
she had caused in any terms that he might think fit to use,--might humiliate her to the ground
if he thought it proper. And yet, had not Mr. Gilmore sinned more against her than had she
against him? Had not the manner in which he had grasped at her hand been unmanly and unworthy?
But of this, though she thought much of it, she said nothing now to Mr. Fenwick. This commission
to the Vicar was that he should make her free; and in doing this he might use what language,
and make what confessions he pleased. He must, however, make her free.

After breakfast he started upon his errand with a very heavy heart. He loved his friend dearly.
Between these two there had grown up now during a period of many years, that undemonstrative,
unexpressed, almost unconscious affection which, with men, will often make the greatest charm
of their lives, but which is held by women to be quite unsatisfactory and almost nugatory.
It may be doubted whether either of them had ever told the other of his regard. "Yours always,"
in writing, was the warmest term that was ever used. Neither ever dreamed of suggesting that
the absence of the other would be a cause of grief or even of discomfort. They would bicker
with each other, and not unfrequently abuse each other. Chance threw them much together, but
they never did anything to assist chance. Women, who love each other as well, will always be
expressing their love, always making plans to be together, always doing little things each
for the gratification of the other, constantly making presents backwards and forwards. These
two men had never given any thing, one to the other, beyond a worn-out walking-stick, or a
cigar. They were rough to each other, caustic, and almost ill-mannered. But they thoroughly
trusted each other; and the happiness, prosperity, and, above all, the honour of the one were,
to the other, matters of keenest moment. The bigger man of the two, the one who felt rather
than knew himself to be the bigger, had to say that which would go nigh to break his friend's
heart, and the task which he had in hand made him sick at his own heart. He walked slowly across
the fields, turning over in his own mind the words he would use. His misery for his friend
was infinitely greater than any that he had suffered on his own account, either in regard to
Mr. Puddleham's chapel or the calumny of the Marquis.

He found Gilmore sauntering about the stable yard. "Old fellow," he said, "come along, I have
got something to say to you."

"It is about Mary, I suppose?"

"Well, yes; it is about Mary. You mustn't be a woman, Harry, or let a woman make you seriously
wretched."

"I know it all. That will do. You need not say anything more." Then he put his hands into the
pockets of his shooting coat, and walked off as though all had been said that was necessary.
Fenwick had told his message and might now go away. As for himself, in the sharpness of his
agony he had as yet made no scheme for a future purpose. Only this he had determined. He would
see that false woman once again, and tell her what he thought of her conduct.

But Fenwick knew that his task was not yet done. Gilmore might walk off, but he was bound to
follow the unhappy man.

"Harry," he said, "you had better let me come with you for awhile. You had better hear what
I have to say."

"I want to hear nothing more. What good can it be? Like a fool, I had set my fortune on one
cast of the die, and I have lost it. Why she should have added on the misery and disgrace of
the last few weeks to the rest, I cannot imagine. I suppose it has been her way of punishing
me for my persistency."

"It has not been that, Harry."

"God knows what it has been. I do not understand it." He had turned from the stables towards
the house, and had now come to a part of the grounds in which workmen were converting a little
paddock in front of the house into a garden. The gardener was there with four or five labourers,
and planks, and barrows, and mattocks, and heaps of undistributed earth and gravel were spread
about. "Give over with this," he said to the gardener, angrily. The man touched his hat, and
stood amazed. "Leave it, I say, and send these men away. Pay them for the work, and let them go."

"You don't mean as we are to leave it all like this, sir?"

"I do mean that you are to leave it just as it is." There was a man standing with a shovel
in his hand levelling some loose earth, and the Squire, going up to him, took the shovel from
him and threw it upon the ground. "When I say a thing, I mean it. Ambrose, take these men away.
I will not have another stroke of work done here." The Vicar came up to him and whispered into
his ear a prayer that he would not expose himself before the men; but the Squire cared nothing
for his friend's whisper. He shook off the Vicar's hand from his arm and stalked away into
the house.

Two rooms, the two drawing-rooms as they were called, on the ground floor had been stripped
of the old paper, and were now in that state of apparent ruin which always comes upon such
rooms when workmen enter them with their tools. There were tressels with a board across them,
on which a man was standing at this moment, whose business it was to decorate the ceiling.

"That will do," said the Squire. "You may get down, and leave the place." The man stood still
on his board with his eyes open and his brush in his hand. "I have changed my mind, and you
may come down," said Mr. Gilmore. "Tell Mr. Cross to send me his bill for what he has done,
and it shall be paid. Come down, when I tell you. I will have nothing further touched in the
house." He went from room to room and gave the same orders, and, after a while, succeeded in
turning the paper-hangers and painters out of the house. Fenwick had followed him from room
to room, making every now and then an attempt at remonstrance; but the Squire had paid no attention
either to his words or to his presence.

At last they were alone together in Gilmore's own study or office, and then the Vicar spoke.
"Harry," he said, "I am, indeed, surprised that such a one as you should not have more manhood
at his command."

"Were you ever tried as I am?"

"What matters that? You are responsible for your own conduct, and I tell you that your conduct
is unmanly."

"Why should I have the rooms done up? I shall never live here. What is it to me how they are
left? The sooner I stop a useless expenditure the better. It was being done for her, not for me."

"Of course you will live here."

"You know nothing about it. You cannot know anything about it. Why has she treated me in this
way? To send up to a man and simply tell him that she has changed her mind! God in heaven!--that
you should bring me such a message!"

"You have not allowed me to give my message yet."

"Give it me, then, and have done with it. Has she not sent you to tell me that she has changed
her mind?"

Now that opportunity was given to him, the Vicar did not know how to tell his message. "Perhaps
it would have been better that Janet should have come to you."

"It don't make much difference who comes. She'll never come again. I don't suppose, Frank,
you can understand the sort of love I have had for her. You have never been driven by failure
to such longing as mine has been. And then I thought it had come at last!"

"Will you be patient while I speak to you, Harry?" said the Vicar, again taking him by the
arm. They had now left the house, and were out alone among the shrubs.

"Patient! yes; I think I am patient. Nothing further can hurt me now;--that's one comfort."

"Mary bids me remind you,"--Gilmore shuddered and shook himself when Mary Lowther's name was
mentioned, but he did not attempt to stop the Vicar,--"she bids me remind you that when the
other day she consented to be your wife, she did so--." He tried to tell it all, but he could
not. How could he tell the man the story which Mary had told to him?

"I understand," said Gilmore. "It's all of no use, and you are troubling yourself for nothing.
She told me that she did not care a straw for me;--but she accepted me."

"If that was the case, you were both wrong."

"It was the case. I don't say who was wrong, but the punishment has come upon me only. Look
here, Frank; I will not take this message from you. I will not even give her up yet. I have
a right, at least, to see her, and see her I will. I don't suppose you will try to prevent me?"

"She must do as she pleases, Harry, as long as she is in my house."

"She shall see me. She is self-willed enough, but she shall not refuse me that. Be so good
as to tell her with my compliments, that I expect her to see me. A man is not going to be treated
like this, and then not speak his own mind. Be good enough to tell her that from me. I demand
an interview." So saying he turned upon his heel, and walked quickly away through the shrubbery.

The Vicar stood for awhile to think, and then slowly returned to the vicarage by himself. What
Gilmore had said to him was true enough. He had, indeed, never been tried after that fashion.
It did seem to him that his friend was in fact broken-hearted. Harry Gilmore might live on,--as
is the way with men and women who are broken-hearted;--but life for the present, life for some
years to come, could be to him only a burden.

CHAPTER LXIII.

THE MILLER TELLS HIS TROUBLES.

When the Vicar went on his unhappy mission to the Squire's house Carry Brattle had been nearly
two months at the mill. During that time both Mr. and Mrs. Fenwick had seen her more than once,
and at last she had been persuaded to go to church with her sister. On the previous Sunday
she had crept through the village at Fanny's side, and had taken a place provided for her in
the dark corner of a dark pew under the protection of a thick veil. Fanny walked with her boldly
across the village street, as though she were not in any slightest degree ashamed of her companion,
and sat by her side, and then conveyed her home. On the next Sunday the sacrament would be
given, and this was done in preparation for that day.

Things had not gone very pleasantly at the mill. Up to this moment old Brattle had expressed
no forgiveness towards his daughter, had uttered no word of affection to her, had made no sign
that he had again taken her to his bosom as his own child. He had spoken to her, because in
the narrow confines of their home it was almost impossible that he should live in the house
with her without doing so. Carry had gradually fallen into the way of doing her share of the
daily work. She cooked, and baked, and strove hard that her presence in the house should be
found to be a comfort. She was useful, and the very fact of her utility brought her father
into a certain state of communion with her; but he never addressed her specially, never called
her by her name, and had not yet even acknowledged to his wife or to Fanny that he recognised
her as one of the family. They had chosen to bring her in against his will, and he would not
turn their guest from the door. It was thus that he seemed to regard his daughter's presence
in the mill-house.

Under this treatment Carry was becoming restive and impatient. On such an occasion as that
of going to church and exposing herself to the eyes of those who had known her as an innocent,
laughing, saucy girl, she could not but be humble, quiet, and awestruck; but at home she was
beginning again gradually to assert her own character. "If father won't speak to me, I'd better
go," she said to Fanny.

"And where will you go to, Carry?"

"I dun' know;--into the mill-pond would be best for them as belongs to me. I suppose there
ain't anybody as 'd have me?"

"Nobody can have you as will love you as we do, Carry."

"Why won't father come round and speak to me? You can't tell what it is to have him looking
at one that way. I sometimes feels like getting up and telling him to turn me out if he won't
speak a word to me." But Fanny had softened her, and encouraged her, bidding her wait still
again, explaining the sorrow that weighed upon their father's heart as well as she could without
saying a single cruel word as to Carry's past life. Fanny's task was not easy, and it was made
the harder by their mother's special tenderness towards Carry. "The less she says and the more
she does, the better for her," said Fanny to her mother. "You shouldn't let her talk about
father." Mrs. Brattle did not attempt to argue the matter with her elder daughter, but she
found it to be quite out of her power to restrain Carry's talking.

During these two months old Brattle had not even seen either his landlord or the Vicar. They
had both been at the mill, but the miller had kept himself up among his grist, and had not
condescended to come down to them. Nor had he even, since Carry's return, been seen in Bullhampton,
or even up on the high road leading to it. He held no communion with men other than was absolutely
necessary for his business, feeling himself to be degraded, not so much by his daughter's fall
as by his concession to his fallen daughter. He would sit out in the porch of an evening, and
smoke his pipe; but if he heard a footstep on the lane he would retreat, and cross the plank
and get among the wheels of his mill, or out into the orchard. Of Sam nothing had been heard.
He was away, it was believed in Durham, working at some colliery engine. He gave no sign of
himself to his mother or sister; but it was understood that he would appear at the assizes,
towards the end of the present month, as he had been summoned there as a witness at the trial
of the two men for the murder of Mr. Trumbull.

And Carry, also, was to be a witness at the assizes; and, as it was believed, a witness much
more material than her brother. Indeed, it was beginning to be thought that after all Sam would
have no evidence to give. If, indeed, he had had nothing to do with the murder, it was not
probable that any of the circumstances of the murder would have been confided to him. He had,
it seemed, been on intimate terms with the man Acorn,--and, through Acorn, had known Burrows
and the old woman who lived at Pycroft Common, the mother of Burrows. He had been in their
company when they first visited Bullhampton, and had, as we know, invited them into the Vicar's
garden,--much to the damage of Mr. Burrows' shoulder-blade; but it was believed that beyond
this he could say nothing as to the murder. But Carry Brattle was presumed to have a closer
knowledge of at least one of the men. She had now confessed to her sister that, after leaving
Bullhampton, she had consented to become Acorn's wife. She had known then but little of his
mode of life or past history; but he was young, good-looking, fairly well-dressed, and had
promised to marry her. By him she was taken to the cottage on Pycroft Common, and by him she
had certainly been visited on the morning after the murder. He had visited her and given her
money;--and since that, according to her own story, she had neither seen him nor heard from
him. She had never cared for him, she told her sister; but what was that to one such as her
as long as he would make her an honest woman? All this was repeated by Fanny Brattle to Mrs.
Fenwick;--and now the assizes were at hand, and how was Carry to demean herself there? Who
would take her? Who would stand near her and support her, and save her from falling into that
abyss of self-abasement and almost of self-annihilation which would be her doom, unless there
were some one there to give her strength and aid?

"I would not go to Salisbury at all during the assizes, if I were you," Mrs. Fenwick had said
to her husband. The Vicar understood thoroughly what was meant. Because of the evil things
which had been said of him by that stupid old Marquis whom he had been cheated into forgiving,
he was not to be allowed to give a helping hand to his parishioner! Nevertheless, he acknowledged
his wife's wisdom,--tacitly, as is fitting when such acknowledgments have to be made; and he
contented himself with endeavouring to find for her some other escort. It had been hoped from
day to day that the miller would yield, that he would embrace poor Carry, and promise her that
she should again be to him as a daughter. If this could be brought about, then,--so thought
the Vicar and Fanny too,--the old man would steel himself to bear the eyes of the whole county,
and would accompany the girl himself. But now the day was coming on, and Brattle seemed to
be as far from yielding as ever. Fanny had dropped a word or two in his hearing about the assizes,
but he had only glowered at her, taking no other notice whatever of her hints.

When the Vicar left his friend Gilmore, as has been told in the last chapter, he did not return
to the vicarage across the fields, but took the carriage road down to the lodge, and from thence
crossed the stile that led into the path down to the mill. This was on the 15th of August,
a Wednesday, and Carry was summoned to be at Salisbury on that day week. As the day drew near
she became very nervous. At the Vicar's instance Fanny had written to her brother George, asking
him whether he would be good to his poor sister, and take her under his charge. He had written
back,--or rather his wife had written for him,--sending Carry a note for £20 as a present,
but declining, on the score of his own children, to be seen with her in Salisbury on the occasion.
"I shall go with her myself, Mr. Fenwick," Fanny had said to the Vicar; "it'll just be better
than nobody at all to be along with her." The Vicar was now going down to the mill to give
his assent to this. He could see nothing better. Fanny at any rate would be firm; would not
be prevented by false shame from being a very sister to her sister; and would perhaps be admitted
where a brother's attendance might be refused. He had promised to see the women at the mill
as early in the week as he could, and now he went thither intent on giving them advice as to
their proceedings at Salisbury. It would doubtless be necessary that they should sleep there,
and he hoped that they might be accommodated by Mrs. Stiggs.

As he stepped out from the field path on to the lane, almost immediately in front of the mill,
he came directly upon the miller. It was between twelve and one o'clock, and old Brattle was
wandering about for a minute or two waiting for his dinner. The two men met so that it was
impossible that they should not speak; and on this occasion the miller did not seem to avoid
his visitor. "Muster Fenwick," said he, as he took the Vicar's hand, "I am bound to say as
I'm much obliged to ye for all y' have done for that poor lass in there."

"Don't say a word about that, Mr. Brattle."

"But I must say a word. There's money owing as I knows. There was ten shilling a week for her
keep all that time she was at Salsbry yonder."

"I will not hear a word as to any money."

"Her brother George has sent her a gift, Muster Fenwick,--twenty pound."

"I am very glad to hear it."

"George is a well-to-do man, they tell me," continued the father, "and can afford to part with
his money. But he won't come forward to help the girl any other gait. I'll thank you just to
take what's due, Muster Fenwick, and you can give her sister the change. Our Fanny has got
the note as George sent."

Then there was a dispute about the money, as a matter of course. Fenwick swore that nothing
was due, and the miller protested that as the money was there all his daughter's expenses at
Salisbury should be repaid. And the miller at last got the best of it. Fenwick promised that
he would look to his book, see how much he had paid, and mention the sum to Fanny at some future
time. He positively refused to take the note at present, protesting that he had no change,
and that he would not burden himself with the responsibility of carrying so much money about
with him in his pocket. Then he asked whether, if he went into the house, he would be able
to say a word or two to the women before dinner. He had made up his mind that he would make
no further attempt at reconciling the father to his daughter. He had often declared to his
wife that there could be nothing so hateful to a man as the constant interference of a self-constituted
adviser. "I so often feel that I am making myself odious when I am telling them to do this
or that; and then I ask myself what I should say if anybody were to come and advise me how
to manage you and the bairns." And he had told his wife more than once how very natural and
reasonable had been the expression of the lady's wrath at Startup, when he had taken upon himself
to give her advice. "People know what is good for them to do, well enough, without being dictated
to by a clergyman!" He had repeated the words to himself and to his wife a dozen times, and
talked of having them put up in big red letters over the fire-place in his own study. He had
therefore quite determined to say never another word to old Brattle in reference to his daughter
Carry. But now the miller himself began upon the subject.

"You can see 'em, Muster Fenwick, in course. It don't make no odds about dinner. But I was
wanting just to say a word to you about that poor young ooman there." This he said in a slow,
half-hesitating voice, as though he could hardly bring himself to speak of the unfortunate
one to whom he alluded. The Vicar muttered some word of assent, and then the miller went on.
"You knows, of course, as how she be back here at the mill?"

"Certainly I do. I've seen her more than once."

"Muster Fenwick, I don't suppose as any one as asn't tried it knows what it is. I hopes you
mayn't never know it; nor it ain't likely. Muster Fenwick, I'd sooner see her dead body stretched
afore me,--and I loved her a'most as well as any father ever loved his da'ter,--I'd sooner
a see'd her brought home to the door stiff and stark than know her to be the thing she is."
His hesitation had now given way to emphasis, and he raised his hand as he spoke. The Vicar
caught it and held it in his own, and strove to find some word to say as the old man paused
in his speech. But to Jacob Brattle it was hard for a clergyman to find any word to say on
such an occasion. Of what use could it be to preach of repentance to one who believed nothing;
or to tell of the opportunity which forgiveness by an earthly parent might afford to the sinner
of obtaining lasting forgiveness elsewhere? But let him have said what he might, the miller
would not have listened. He was full of that which lay upon his own heart. "If they only know'd
what them as cares for 'em 'd has to bear, maybe they'd think a little. But it ain't natural
they should know, Muster Fenwick, and one's a'most tempted to say that a man 'd better have
no child at all."

"Think of your son George, Mr. Brattle, and of Mrs. Jay."

"What's them to me? He sends the girl a twenty-pun'-note, and I wish he'd a kep' it. As for
t'other, she wouldn't let the girl inside her door! It's here she has to come."

"What comfort would you have, Mr. Brattle, without Fanny?"

"Fanny! I'm not saying nothing against Fanny. Not but what she hadn't no business to let the
girl into the house in the middle of the night without saying a word to me."

"Would you have had her leave her sister outside in the cold and damp all night?"

"Why didn't she come and ax? All the same, I ain't a saying nowt again Fanny. But, Muster Fenwick,
if you ever come to have one foot bad o' the gout, it won't make you right to know that the
other ain't got it. Y'll have the pain a gnawing of you from the bad foot till you clean forget
all the rest o' your body. It's so with me, I knows."

"What can I say to you, Mr. Brattle? I do feel for you. I do,--I do."

"Not a doubt on it, Muster Fenwick. They all on 'em feels for me. They all on 'em knows as
how I'm bruised and mangled a'most as though I'd fallen through into that water-wheel. There
ain't one in all Bull'ompton as don't know as Jacob Brattle is a broken man along of his da'ter
that is a--"

"Silence, Mr. Brattle. You shall not say it. She is not that;--at any rate not now. Have you
no knowledge that sin may be left behind and deserted as well as virtue?"

"It ain't easy to leave disgrace behind, any ways. For ought I knows a girl may be made right
arter a while; but as for her father, nothing 'll ever make him right again. It's in here,
Muster Fenwick,--in here. There's things as is hard on us; but when they comes one can't send
'em away just because they is hardest of all to bear. I'd a put up with aught, only this, and
defied all Bull'ompton to say as it broke me;--but I'm about broke now. If I hadn't more nor
a crust at home, nor a decent coat to my back, I'd a looked 'em all square in the face as ever
I did. But I can't look no man square in the face now;--and as for other folk's girls, I can't
bear 'em near me,--no how. They makes me think of my own." Fenwick had now turned his back
to the miller, in order that he might wipe away his tears without showing them. "I'm thinking
of her always, Muster Fenwick;--day and night. When the mill's agoing, it's all the same. It's
just as though there warn't nothing else in the whole world as I minded to think on. I've been
a man all my life, Muster Fenwick; and now I ain't a man no more."

Our friend the Vicar never before felt himself so utterly unable to administer comfort in affliction.
There was nothing on which he could take hold. He could tell the man, no doubt, that beyond
all this there might be everlasting joy, not only for him, but for him and the girl together;--joy
which would be sullied by no touch of disgrace. But there was a stubborn strength in the infidelity
of this old Pagan which was utterly impervious to any adjuration on that side. That which he
saw and knew and felt, he would believe; but he would believe nothing else. He knew now that
he was wounded and sore and wretched, and he understood the cause. He knew that he must bear
his misery to the last, and he struggled to make his back broad for the load. But even the
desire for ease, which is natural to all men, would not make him flinch in his infidelity.
As he would not believe when things went well with him, and when the comfort of hope for the
future was not imperatively needed for his daily solace,--so would he not believe now, when
his need for such comfort was so pressing.

The upshot of it all was, that the miller thought that he would take his own daughter into
Salisbury, and was desirous of breaking the matter in this way to the friend of his family.
The Vicar, of course, applauded him much. Indeed, he applauded too much;--for the miller turned
on him and declared that he was by no means certain that he was doing right. And when the Vicar
asked him to be gentle with the girl, he turned upon him again.

"Why ain't she been gentle along of me? I hates such gentility, Muster Fenwick. I'll be honest
with her, any way." But he thought better of it before he let the Vicar go. "I shan't do her
no hurt, Muster Fenwick. Bad as she's been, she's my own flesh and blood still."

After what he had heard, Mr. Fenwick declined going into the mill-house, and returned home
without seeing Mrs. Brattle and her daughters. The miller's determination should be told by
himself; and the Vicar felt that he could hardly keep the secret were he now to see the women.

CHAPTER LXIV.

IF I WERE YOUR SISTER!

Mr. Gilmore in his last words to his friend Fenwick, declared that he would not accept the
message which the Vicar delivered to him as the sufficient expression of Mary's decision. He
would see Mary Lowther herself, and force her to confess her own treachery face to face with
him,--to confess it or else to deny it. So much she could not refuse to grant him. Fenwick
had indeed said that as long as the young lady was his guest she must be allowed to please
herself as to whom she would see or not see. Gilmore should not be encouraged to force himself
upon her at the vicarage. But the Squire was quite sure that so much as that must be granted
to him. It was impossible that even Mary Lowther should refuse to see him after what had passed
between them. And then, as he walked about his own fields, thinking of it all, he allowed himself
to feel a certain amount of hope that after all she might be made to marry him. His love for
her had not dwindled,--or rather his desire to call her his own, and to make her his wife;
but it had taken an altered form out of which all its native tenderness had been pressed by
the usage to which he had been subjected. It was his honour rather than his love that he now
desired to satisfy. All those who knew him best were aware that he had set his heart upon this
marriage, and it was necessary to him that he should show them that he was not to be disappointed.
Mary's conduct to him from the day on which she had first engaged herself to him had been of
such a kind as naturally to mar his tenderness and to banish from him all those prettinesses
of courtship in which he would have indulged as pleasantly as any other man. She had told him
in so many words that she intended to marry him without loving him, and on these terms he had
accepted her. But in doing so he had unconsciously flattered himself that she would be better
than her words,--that as she submitted herself to him as his affianced bride she would gradually
become soft and loving in his hands. She had, if possible, been harder to him even than her
words. She had made him understand thoroughly that his presence was not a joy to her, and that
her engagement to him was a burden on her which she had taken on her shoulders simply because
the romance of her life had been nipped in the bud in reference to the man whom she did love.
Still he had persevered. He had set his heart sturdily on marrying this girl, and marry her
he would, if, after any fashion, such marriage should come within his power. Mrs. Fenwick,
by whose judgment and affection he had been swayed through all this matter, had told him again
and again, that such a girl as Mary Lowther must love her husband,--if her husband loved her
and treated her with tenderness. "I think I can answer for myself," Gilmore had once replied,
and his friend had thoroughly believed in him. Trusting to the assurance he had persevered;
he had persevered even when his trust in that assurance had been weakened by the girl's hardness.
Anything would be better than breaking from an engagement on which he had so long rested all
his hopes of happiness. She was pledged to be his wife; and, that being so, he could reform
his gardens and decorate his house, and employ himself about his place with some amount of
satisfaction. He had at least a purpose in his life. Then by degrees there grew upon him a
fear that she still meant to escape from him, and he swore to himself,--without any tenderness,--that
this should not be so. Let her once be his wife and she should be treated with all consideration,--with
all affection, if she would accept it; but she should not make a fool of him now. Then the
Vicar had come with his message, and he had been simply told that the engagement between them
was over!

Of course he would see her,--and that at once. As soon as Fenwick had left him, he went with
rapid steps over his whole place, and set the men again upon their work. This took place on
a Wednesday, and the men should be continued at their work, at any rate, till Saturday. He
explained this clearly to Ambrose, his gardener, and to the foreman in the house.

"It may be," said he to Ambrose, "that I shall change my mind altogether about the place;--but
as I am still in doubt, let everything go on till Saturday."

Of course they all knew why it was that the conduct of the Squire was so like the conduct of
a madman.

He sent down a note to Mary Lowther that evening.

   DEAR MARY,

   I have seen Fenwick, and of course I must see you. Will
   you name an hour for to-morrow morning?

   Yours, H. G.

When Mary read this, which she did as they were sitting on the lawn after dinner, she did not
hesitate for a moment. Hardly a word had been said to her by Fenwick, or his wife, since his
return from the Privets. They did not wish to show themselves to be angry with her, but they
found conversation to be almost impossible. "You have told him?" Mary had asked. "Yes, I have
told him," the Vicar had replied; and that had been nearly all. In the course of the afternoon
she had hinted to Janet Fenwick that she thought she had better leave Bullhampton. "Not quite
yet, dear," Mrs. Fenwick had said, and Mary had been afraid to urge her request.

"Shall I name eleven to-morrow?" she said, as she handed the Squire's note to Mrs. Fenwick.
Mrs. Fenwick and the Vicar both assented, and then she went in and wrote her answer.

   I will be at home at the vicarage at eleven.--M. L.

She would have given much to escape what was coming, but she had not expected to escape it.

The next morning after breakfast Fenwick himself went away. "I've had more than enough of it,"
he said, to his wife, "and I won't be near them."

Mrs. Fenwick was with her friend up to the moment at which the bell was heard at the front
door. There was no coming up across the lawn now.

"Dear Janet," Mary said, when they were alone, "how I wish that I had never come to trouble
you here at the vicarage!"

Mrs. Fenwick was not without a feeling that much of all this unhappiness had come from her
own persistency on behalf of her husband's friend, and thought that some expression was due
from her to Mary to that effect. "You are not to suppose that we are angry with you," she said,
putting her arm round Mary's waist.

"Pray,--pray do not be angry with me."

"The fault has been too much ours for that. We should have left this alone, and not have pressed
it. We have meant it for the best, dear."

"And I have meant to do right;--but, Janet, it is so hard to do right."

When the ring at the door was heard, Mrs. Fenwick met Harry Gilmore in the hall, and told him
that he would find Mary in the drawing-room. She pressed his hand warmly as she looked into
his face, but he spoke no word as he passed on to the room which she had just left. Mary was
standing in the middle of the floor, half-way between the window and the door, to receive him.
When she heard the door-bell she put her hand to her heart, and there she held it till he was
approaching; but then she dropped it and stood without support, with her face upraised to meet
him. He came up to her very quickly and took her by the hand. "Mary," he said, "I am not to
believe this message that has been sent to me. I do not believe it. I will not believe it.
I will not accept it. It is out of the question;--quite out of the question. It shall be withdrawn,
and nothing more shall be said about it."

"That cannot be, Mr. Gilmore."

"What cannot be? I say that it must be. You cannot deny, Mary, that you are betrothed to me
as my wife. Are such betrothals to be nothing? Are promises to go for nothing because there
has been no ceremony? You might as well come and tell me that you would leave me even though
you were my wife."

"But I am not your wife."

"What does it mean? Have I not been patient with you? Have I been hard to you, or cruel? Have
you heard anything of me that is to my discredit?" She shook her head, eagerly. "Then what
does it mean? Are you aware that you are proposing to yourself to make an utter wreck of me--to
send me adrift upon the world without a purpose or a hope? What have I done to deserve such
treatment?"

He pleaded his cause very well,--better than she had ever heard him plead a cause before. He
held her still by the hand, not with a grasp of love, but with a retention which implied his
will that she should not pass away from out of his power. He looked her full in the face, and
she did not quail before his eyes. Nevertheless she would have given the world to have been
elsewhere, and to have been free from the necessity of answering him. She had been fortifying
herself throughout the morning with self-expressed protests that on no account would she yield,
whether she had been right before or wrong;--of this she was convinced, that she must be right
now to save herself from a marriage that was so distasteful to her.

"You have deserved nothing but good at my hands," she said.

"And is this good that you are doing to me?"

"Yes,--certainly. It is the best that I know how to do now."

"Why is it to be done now? What is it that has changed you?"

She withdrew her hand from him, and waited a while before she answered. It was necessary that
she should tell him all the tidings that had been conveyed to her in the letter which she had
received from her cousin Walter; but in order that he should perfectly understand them and
be made to know their force upon herself she must remind him of the stipulation which she had
made when she consented to her engagement. But how could she speak words which would seem to
him to be spoken only to remind him of the abjectness of his submission to her?

"I was broken-hearted when I came here," she said.

"And therefore you would leave me broken-hearted now."

"You should spare me, Mr. Gilmore. You remember what I told you. I loved my cousin Walter entirely.
I did not hide it from you. I begged you to leave me because it was so. I told you that my
heart would not change. When I said so, I thought that you would--desist."

"I am to be punished, then, for having been too true to you?"

"I will not defend myself for accepting you at last. But you must remember that when I did
so I said that I should go--back--to him, if he could take me."

"And you are going back to him?"

"If he will have me."

"You can stand there and look me in the face and tell me that you are false as that! You can
confess to me that you will change like a weathercock;--be his one day, and then mine, and
his again the next! You can own that you give yourself about first to one man, and then to
another, just as may suit you at the moment! I would not have believed it of any woman. When
you tell it me of yourself, I begin to think that I have been wrong all through in my ideas
of a woman's character."

The time had now come in which she must indeed speak up. And speech seemed to be easier with
her now that he had allowed himself to express his anger. He had expressed more than his anger.
He had dared to shower his scorn upon her, and the pelting of the storm gave her courage. "You
are unjust upon me, Mr. Gilmore,--unjust and cruel. You know in your heart that I have not
changed."

"Were you not betrothed to me?"

"I was;--but in what way? Have I told you any untruth? Have I concealed anything? When I accepted
you, did I not explain to you how and why it was so,--against my own wish, against my own judgment,--because
then I had ceased to care what became of me. I do care now. I care very much."

"And you think that is justice to me?"

"If you will bandy accusations with me, why did you accept me when I told you that I could
not love you? But, indeed, indeed, I would not say a word to displease you, if you would only
spare me. We were both wrong; but the wrong must now be put right. You would not wish to take
me for your wife when I tell you that my heart is full of affection for another man. Then,
when I yielded, I was struggling to cure that as a great evil. Now I welcome it as the sweetest
blessing of my life. If I were your sister, what would you have me do?"

He stood silent for a moment, and then the colour rose to his forehead as he answered her.
"If you were my sister, my ears would tingle with shame when your name was mentioned in my
presence."

The blood rushed also over her face, suffusing her whole countenance, forehead and all, and
fire flashed from her eyes, and her lips were parted, and even her nostrils seemed to swell
with anger. She looked full into his face for a second, and then she turned and walked speechless
away from him. When the handle of the door was in her hand, she turned again to address him.
"Mr. Gilmore," she said, "I will never willingly speak to you again." Then the door was opened
and closed behind her before a word had escaped from his lips.

He knew that he had insulted her. He knew that he had uttered words so hard, that it might
be doubted whether, under any circumstances, they could be justified from a gentleman to a
lady. And certainly he had not intended to insult her as he was coming down to the vicarage.
As far as any settled purpose had been formed in his mind, he had meant to force her back to
her engagement with himself, by showing to her how manifest would be her injustice, and how
great her treachery, if she persisted in leaving him. But he knew her character well enough
to be aware that any word of insult addressed to her as a woman, would create offence which
she herself would be unable to quell. But his anger had got the better of his judgment, and
when the suggestion was made to him of a sister of his own, he took the opportunity which was
offered to him of hitting her with all his force. She had felt the blow, and had determined
that she would never encounter another.

He was left alone, and he must retreat. He waited a while, thinking that perhaps Mrs. Fenwick
or the Vicar would come to him; but nobody came. The window of the room was open, and it was
easy for him to leave the house by the garden. But as he prepared to do so, his eye caught
the writing materials on a side table, and he sat down and addressed a note to Mrs. Fenwick.
"Tell Mary," he said, "that in a matter which to me is of life and death, I was forced to speak
plainly. Tell her, also, that if she will be my wife, I know well that I shall never have to
blush for a deed of hers,--or for a word,--or for a thought.--H. G." Then he went out on to
the lawn, and returned home by the path at the back of the church farm.

He had left the vicarage, making another offer for the girl's hand, as it were, with his last
gasp. But as he went, he told himself that it was impossible that it should be accepted. Every
chance had now gone from him, and he must look his condition in the face as best he could.
It had been bad enough with him before, when no hope had ever been held out to him; when the
answers of the girl he loved had always been adverse to him; when no one had been told that
she was to be his bride. Even then the gnawing sense of disappointment and of failure,--just
there, when only he cared for success,--had been more than he could endure without derangement
of the outer tranquillity of his life. Even then he had been unable so to live that men should
not know that his sorrow had disturbed him. When he had gone to Loring, travelling with a forlorn
hope into the neighbourhood of the girl he loved, he had himself been aware that he had lacked
strength to control himself in his misfortune. But if his state then had been grievous, what
must it be now? It had been told to all the world around him that he had at last won his bride,
and he had proceeded, as do jolly thriving bridegrooms, to make his house ready for her reception.
Doubting nothing he had mingled her wishes, her tastes, his thoughts of her, with every action
of his life. He had prepared jewels for her, and decorated chambers, and laid out pleasure
gardens. He was a man, simple in his own habits, and not given to squandering his means; but
now, at this one moment of his life, when everything was to be done for the delectation of
her who was to be his life's companion, he could afford to let prudence go by the board. True
that his pleasure in doing this had been sorely marred by her coldness, by her indifference,
even by her self-abnegation; but he had continued to buoy himself up with the idea that all
would come right when she should be his wife. Now she had told him that she would never willingly
speak to him again,--and he believed her.

He went up to his house, and into his bedroom, and then he sat thinking of it all. And as he
thought he heard the voices and the tools of the men at their work; and knew that things were
being done which, for him, would never be of avail. He remained there for a couple of hours
without moving. Then he got up and gave the housekeeper instructions to pack up his portmanteau,
and the groom orders to bring his gig to the door. "He was going away," he said, and his letters
were to be addressed to his club in London. That afternoon he drove himself into Salisbury
that he might catch the evening express train up, and that night he slept at a hotel in London.

CHAPTER LXV.

MARY LOWTHER LEAVES BULLHAMPTON.

It was considerably past one o'clock, and the children's dinner was upon the table in the dining
parlour before anyone in the vicarage had seen Mary Lowther since the departure of the Squire.
When she left Mr. Gilmore, she had gone to her own room, and no one had disturbed her. As the
children were being seated, Fenwick returned, and his wife put into his hand the note which
Gilmore had left for her.

"What passed between them?" he asked in a whisper.

His wife shook her head. "I have not seen her," she said, "but he talks of speaking plainly,
and I suppose it was bitter enough."

"He can be very bitter if he's driven hard," said the Vicar; "and he has been driven very hard,"
he added, after a while.

As soon as the children had eaten their dinner, Mrs. Fenwick went up to Mary's room with the
Squire's note in her hand. She knocked, and was at once admitted, and she found Mary sitting
at her writing-desk.

"Will you not come to lunch, Mary?"

"Yes,--if I ought. I suppose I might not have a cup of tea brought up here?"

"You shall have whatever you like,--here or anywhere else, as far as the vicarage goes. What
did he say to you this morning?"

"It is of no use that I should tell you, Janet."

"You did not yield to him, then?"

"Certainly, I did not. Certainly I never shall yield to him. Dear Janet, pray take that as
a certainty. Let me make you sure at any rate of that. He must be sure of it himself."

"Here is his note to me, written, I suppose, after you left him." Mary took the scrap of paper
from her hand and read it. "He is not sure, you see," continued Mrs. Fenwick. "He has written
to me, and I suppose that I must answer him."

"He shall certainly never have to blush for me as his wife," said Mary. But she would not tell
her friend of the hard words that had been said to her. She understood well the allusion in
Mr. Gilmore's note, but she would not explain it. She had determined, as she thought about
it in her solitude, that it would be better that she should never repeat to anyone the cruel
words which her lover had spoken to her. Doubtless he had received provocation. All his anger,
as well as all his suffering, had come from a constancy in his love for her, which was unsurpassed,
if not unequalled, in all that she had read of among men. He had been willing to accept her
on conditions most humiliating to himself; and had then been told, that, even with those conditions,
he was not to have her. She was bound to forgive him almost any offence that he could bestow
upon her. He had spoken to her in his wrath words which she thought to be not only cruel but
unmanly. She had told him that she would never speak willingly to him again; and she would
keep her word. But she would forgive him. She was bound to forgive him any injury, let it be
what it might. She would forgive him;--and as a sign to herself of her pardon she would say
no word of his offence to her friends, the Fenwicks. "He shall certainly never have to blush
for me as his wife," she said, as she returned the note to Mrs. Fenwick.

"You mean, that you never will be his wife?"

"Certainly I mean that."

"Have you quarrelled with him, Mary?"

"Quarrelled? How am I to answer that? It will be better that we should not meet again. Of course,
our interview could not be pleasant for either of us. I do not wish him to think that there
has been a quarrel."

"No man ever did a woman more honour than he has done to you."

"Dearest Janet, let it be dropped;--pray let it be dropped. I am sure you believe me now when
I say that it can do no good. I am writing to my aunt this moment to tell her that I will return.
What day shall I name?"

"Have you written to your cousin?"

"No I have not written to my cousin. I have not been able to get through it all, Janet, quite
so easily as that."

"I suppose you had better go now."

"Yes;--I must go now. I should be a thorn in his side if I were to remain here."

"He will not remain, Mary."

"He shall have the choice as far as I am concerned. You must let him know at once that I am
going. I think I will say Saturday,--the day after to-morrow. I could hardly get away to-morrow."

"Certainly not. Why should you?"

"Yet I am bound to hurry myself,--to release him. And, Janet, will you give him these? They
are all here,--the rubies and all. Ah, me! he touched me that day."

"How like a gentleman he has behaved always."

"It was not that I cared for the stupid stones. You know that I care nothing for anything of
the kind. But there was a sort of trust in it,--a desire to show me that everything should
be mine,--which would have made me love him,--if it had been possible."

"I would give one hand that you had never seen your cousin."

"And I will give one hand because I have," said Mary, stretching out her right arm. "Nay, I
will give both; I will give all, because, having seen him, he is what he is to me. But, Janet,
when you return to him these things say a gentle word from me. I have cost him money, I fear."

"He will think but little of that. He would have given you willingly the last acre of his land,
had you wanted it."

"But I did not want it. That was the thing. And all these have been altered, as they would
not have been altered, but for me. I do repent that I have brought all this trouble upon him.
I cannot do more now than ask you to say so when you restore to him his property."

"He will probably pitch them into the cart-ruts. Indeed, I will not give them to him. I will
simply tell him that they are in my hands, and Frank shall have them locked up at the banker's.
Well;--I suppose I had better go down and write him a line."

"And I will name Saturday to my aunt," said Mary.

Mrs. Fenwick immediately went to her desk, and wrote to her friend.

   DEAR HARRY,

   I am sure it is of no use. Knowing how persistent is your
   constancy, I would not say so were I not quite, quite
   certain. She goes to Loring on Saturday. Will it not be
   better that you should come to us for awhile after she has
   left us. You will be less desolate with Frank than you
   would be alone.

   Ever yours,

   JANET FENWICK.

   She has left your jewels with me. I merely tell you this
   for your information;--not to trouble you with the things
   now.

And then she added a second postscript.

   She regrets deeply what you have suffered on her account,
   and bids me beg you to forgive her.

Thus it was settled that Mary Lowther should leave Bullhampton, again returning to Loring,
as she had done before, in order that she might escape from her suitor. In writing to her aunt
she had thought it best to say nothing of Walter Marrable. She had not as yet written to her
cousin, postponing that work for the following day. She would have postponed it longer had
it been possible; but she felt herself to be bound to let him have her reply before he left
Dunripple. She would have much preferred to return to Loring, to have put miles between herself
and Bullhampton, before she wrote a letter which must contain words of happy joy. It would
have gratified her to have postponed for awhile all her future happiness, knowing that it was
there before her, and that it would come to her at last. But it could not be postponed. Her
cousin's letter was burning her pocket. She already felt that she was treating him badly in
keeping it by her without sending him the reply that would make him happy. She could not bring
herself to write the letter till the other matter was absolutely settled; and yet, all delay
was treachery to him; for,--as she repeated to herself again and again,--there could be no
answer but one. She had, however, settled it all now. On the Saturday morning she would start
for Loring, and she would write her letter on the Friday in time for that day's post. Walter
would still be at Dunripple on the Sunday, and on the Sunday morning her letter would reach
him. She had studied the course of post between Bullhampton and her lover's future residence,
and knew to an hour when her letter would be in his hands.

On that afternoon she could hardly maintain the tranquillity of her usual demeanour when she
met the Vicar before dinner. Not a word, however, was said about Gilmore. Fenwick partly understood
that he and his wife were in some degree responsible for the shipwreck that had come, and had
determined that Mary was to be forgiven,--at any rate by him. He and his wife had taken counsel
together, and had resolved that, unless circumstances should demand it, they would never again
mention the Squire's name in Mary Lowther's hearing. The attempt had been made and had utterly
failed, and now there must be an end of it. On the next morning he heard that Gilmore had gone
up to London, and he went up to the Privets to learn what he could from the servants there.
No one knew more than that the Squire's letters were to be directed to him at his Club. The
men were still at work about the place; but Ambrose told him that they were all at sea as to
what they should do, and appealed to him for orders. "If we shut off on Saturday, sir, the
whole place'll be a muck of mud and nothin' else all winter," said the gardener. The Vicar
suggested that after all a muck of mud outside the house wouldn't do much harm. "But master
ain't the man to put up with that all'ays, and it'll cost twice as much to have 'em about the
place again arter a bit." This, however, was the least trouble. If Ambrose was disconsolate
out of doors, the man who was looking after the work indoors was twice more so. "If we be to
work on up to Saturday night," he said, "and then do never a stroke more, we be a doing nothing
but mischief. Better leave it at once nor that, sir." Then Fenwick was obliged to take upon
himself to give certain orders. The papering of the rooms should be finished where the walls
had been already disturbed, and the cornices completed, and the wood-work painted. But as for
the furniture, hangings, and such like, they should be left till further orders should be received
from the owner. As for the mud and muck in the garden, his only care was that the place should
not be so left as to justify the neighbours in saying that Mr. Gilmore was demented. But he
would be able to get instructions from his friend, or perhaps to see him, in time to save danger
in that respect.

In the meantime Mary Lowther had gone up to her room, and seated herself with her blotting-book
and pens and ink. She had now before her the pleasure,--or was it a task?--of answering her
cousin's letter. She had that letter in her hand, and had already read it twice this morning.
She had thought that she would so well know how to answer it; but, now that the pen was in
her hand, she found that the thing to be done was not so easy. How much must she tell him,
and how should she tell it? It was not that there was anything which she desired to keep back
from him. She was willing,--nay, desirous,--that he should know all that she had said, and
done, and thought; but it would have been a blessing if all could have been told to him by
other agency than her own. He would not condemn her. Nor, as she thought of her own conduct
back from one scene to another, did she condemn herself. Yet there was that of which she could
not write without a feeling of shame. And then, how could she be happy, when she had caused
so much misery? And how could she write her letter without expressing her happiness? She wished
that her own identity might be divided, so that she might rejoice over Walter's love with the
one moiety, and grieve with the other at all the trouble she had brought upon the man whose
love to her had been so constant. She sat with the open letter in her hand, thinking over all
this, till she told herself at last that no further thinking could avail her. She must bend
herself over the table, and take the pen in her hand, and write the words, let them come as
they would.

Her letter, she thought, must be longer than his. He had a knack of writing short letters;
and then there had been so little for him to say. He had merely a single question to ask; and,
although he had asked it more than once,--as is the manner of people in asking such questions,--still,
a sheet of note-paper loosely filled had sufficed. Then she read it again. "If you bid me,
I will be with you early next week." What if she told him nothing, but only bade him come to
her? After all, would it not be best to write no more than that? Then she took her pen, and
in three minutes her letter was completed.

   The Vicarage, Friday.

   DEAREST, DEAREST WALTER,

   Do come to me,--as soon as you can, and I will never send
   you away again. I go to Loring to-morrow, and, of course,
   you must come there. I cannot write it all; but I will
   tell you everything when we meet. I am very sorry for your
   cousin Gregory, because he was so good.

   Always your own,

   MARY.

   But do not think that I want to hurry you. I have said
   come at once; but I do not mean that so as to interfere
   with you. You must have so many things to do; and if I get
   one line from you to say that you will come, I can be ever
   so patient. I have not been happy once since we parted.
   It is easy for people to say that they will conquer their
   feelings, but it has seemed to me to be quite impossible
   to do it. I shall never try again.

As soon as the body of her letter was written, she could have continued her postscript for
ever. It seemed to her then as though nothing would be more delightful than to let the words
flow on with full expressions of all her love and happiness. To write to him was pleasant enough,
as long as there came on her no need to mention Mr. Gilmore's name.

That was to be her last evening at Bullhampton; and though no allusion was made to the subject,
they were all thinking that she could never return to Bullhampton again. She had been almost
as much at home with them as with her aunt at Loring; and now she must leave the place for
ever. But they said not a word; and the evening passed by almost as had passed all other evenings.
The remembrance of what had taken place since she had been at Bullhampton made it almost impossible
to speak of her departure.

In the morning she was to be again driven to the railway-station at Westbury. Mr. Fenwick had
work in his parish which would keep him at home, and she was to be trusted to the driving of
the groom. "If I were to be away to-morrow," he said, as he parted from her that evening, "the
churchwardens would have me up to the archdeacon, and the archdeacon might tell the Marquis,
and where should I be then?" Of course she begged him not to give it a second thought. "Dear
Mary," he said, "I should of all things have liked to have seen the last of you,--that you
might know that I love you as well as ever." Then she burst into tears, and kissed him, and
told him that she would always look to him as to a brother.

She called Mrs. Fenwick into her own room before she undressed. "Janet," she said, "dearest
Janet, we are not to part for ever?"

"For ever! No, certainly. Why for ever?"

"I shall never see you, unless you will come to me. Promise me that if ever I have a house
you will come to me."

"Of course you will have a house, Mary."

"And you will come and see me,--will you not? Promise that you will come to me. I can never
come back to dear, dear Bullhampton."

"No doubt we shall meet, Mary."

"And you must bring the children--my darling Flos! How else ever shall I see her? And you must
write to me, Janet."

"I will write,--as often as you do, I don't doubt."

"You must tell me how he is, Janet. You must not suppose that I do not care for his welfare
because I have not loved him. I know that my coming here has been a curse to him. But I could
not help it. Could I have helped it, Janet?"

"Poor fellow! I wish it had not been so."

"But you do not blame me;--not much? Oh, Janet, say that you do not condemn me."

"I can say that with most perfect truth. I do not blame you. It has been most unfortunate;
but I do not blame you. I am sure that you have struggled to do the best that you could."

"God bless you, my dearest, dearest friend! If you could only know how anxious I have been
not to be wrong. But things have been wrong, and I could not put them right."

On the next morning they packed her into the little four-wheeled phaeton, and so she left Bullhampton.
"I believe her to be as good a girl as ever lived," said the Vicar; "but all the same, I wish
with all my heart that she had never come to Bullhampton."

CHAPTER LXVI.

AT THE MILL.

The presence of Carry Brattle was required in Salisbury for the trial of John Burrows and Lawrence
Acorn on Wednesday the 22nd of August. Our Vicar, who had learned that the judges would come
into the city only late on the previous evening, and that the day following their entrance
would doubtless be so fully occupied with other matters as to render it very improbable that
the affair of the murder would then come up, had endeavoured to get permission to postpone
Carry's journey; but the little men in authority are always stern on such points, and witnesses
are usually treated as persons who are not entitled to have any views as to their own personal
comfort or welfare. Lawyers, who are paid for their presence, may plead other engagements,
and their pleas will be considered; and if a witness be a lord, it may perhaps be thought very
hard that he should be dragged away from his amusements. But the ordinary commonplace witness
must simply listen and obey--at his peril. It was thus decided that Carry must be in Salisbury
on the Wednesday, and remain there, hanging about the Court, till her services should be wanted.
Fenwick, who had been in Salisbury, had seen that accommodation should be provided for her
and for the miller at the house of Mrs. Stiggs.

The miller had decided upon going with his daughter. The Vicar did not go down to the mill
again; but Mrs. Fenwick had seen Brattle, and had learned that such was to be the case. The
old man said nothing to his own people about it till the Monday afternoon, up to which time
Fanny was prepared to accompany her sister. He was then told, when he came in from the mill
for his tea, that word had come down from the vicarage that there would be two bed-rooms for
them at Mrs. Stiggs' house. "I don't know why there should be the cost of a second room," said
Fanny; "Carry and I won't want two beds."

Up to this time there had been no reconciliation between the miller and his younger daughter.
Carry would ask her father whether she should do this or that, and the miller would answer
her as a surly master will answer a servant whom he does not like; but the father, as a father,
had never spoken to the child; nor, up to this moment, had he said a word even to his wife
of his intended journey to Salisbury. But now he was driven to speak. He had placed himself
in the arm chair, and was sitting with his hands on his knees gazing into the empty fire-grate.
Carry was standing at the open window, pulling the dead leaves off three or four geraniums
which her mother kept there in pots. Fanny was passing in and out from the back kitchen, in
which the water for their tea was being boiled, and Mrs. Brattle was in her usual place with
her spectacles on, and a darning needle in her hand. A minute was allowed to pass by before
the miller answered his eldest daughter.

"There'll be two beds wanted," he said; "I told Muster Fenwick as I'd go with the girl myself;--and
so I wull."

Carry started so that she broke the flower which she was touching. Mrs. Brattle immediately
stopped her needle, and withdrew her spectacles from her nose. Fanny, who was that instant
bringing the tea-pot out of the back kitchen, put it down among the tea cups, and stood still
to consider what she had heard.

"Dear, dear, dear!" said the mother.

"Father," said Fanny, coming up to him, and just touching him with her hand; "'twill be best
for you to go, much best. I am heartily glad on it, and so will Carry be."

"I knows nowt about that," said the miller; "but I mean to go, and that's all about it. I ain't
a been to Salsbry these fifteen year and more, and I shan't be there never again."

"There's no saying that, father," said Fanny.

"And it ain't for no pleasure as I'm agoing now. Nobody 'll s'pect that of me. I'd liever let
the millstone come on my foot."

There was nothing more said about it that evening, nothing more at least in the miller's hearing.
Carry and her sister were discussing it nearly the whole night. It was very soon plain to Fanny
that Carry had heard the tidings with dismay. To be alone with her father for two, three, or
perhaps four days, seemed to her to be so terrible, that she hardly knew how to face the misery
and gloom of his company,--in addition to the fears she had as to what they would say and do
to her in the Court. Since she had been home, she had learned almost to tremble at the sound
of her father's foot; and yet she had known that he would not harm her, would hardly notice
her, would not do more than look at her. But now, for three long frightful days to come, she
would be subject to his wrath during every moment of her life.

"Will he speak to me, Fanny, d'ye think?" she asked.

"Of course he'll speak to you, child."

"But he hasn't, you know,--not since I've been home; not once; not as he does to you and mother.
I know he hates me, and wishes I was dead. And, Fanny, I wishes it myself every day of my life."

"He wishes nothing of the kind, Carry."

"Why don't he say one kind word to me, then? I know I've been bad. But I ain't a done a single
thing since I've been home as 'd a' made him angry if he seed it, or said a word as he mightn't
a' heard."

"I don't think you have, dear."

"Then why can't he come round, if it was ever so little? I'd sooner he'd beat me; that I would."

"He'll never do that, Carry. I don't know as he ever laid a hand upon one of us since we was
little things."

"It 'd be better than never speaking to a girl. Only for you and mother, Fan, I'd be off again."

"You would not. You know you would not. How dare you say that?"

"But why shouldn't he say a word to one, so that one shouldn't go about like a dead body in
the house?"

"Carry dear, listen to this. If you'll manage well; if you'll be good to him, and patient while
you are with him; if you'll bear with him, and yet be gentle when he--"

"I am gentle,--always,--now."

"You are, dear; but when he speaks, as he'll have to speak when you're all alone like, be very
gentle. Maybe, Carry, when you've come back, he will be gentle with you."

They had ever so much more to discuss. Would Sam be at the trial? And, if so, would he and
his father speak to each other? They had both been told that Sam had been summoned, and that
the police would enforce his attendance; but they were neither of them sure whether he would
be there in custody or as a free man. At last they went to sleep, but Carry's slumbers were
not very sound. As has been told before, it was the miller's custom to be up every morning
at five. The two girls would afterwards rise at six, and then, an hour after that, Mrs. Brattle
would be instructed that her time had come. On the Tuesday morning, however, the miller was
not the first of the family to leave his bed. Carry crept out of hers by the earliest dawn
of daylight, without waking her sister, and put on her clothes stealthily. Then she made her
way silently to the front door, which she opened, and stood there outside waiting till her
father should come. The morning, though it was in August, was chill, and the time seemed to
be very long. She had managed to look at the old clock as she passed, and had seen that it
wanted a quarter to five. She knew that her father was never later than five. What, if on this
special morning he should not come, just because she had resolved, after many inward struggles,
to make one great effort to obtain his pardon.

At last he was coming. She heard his step in the passage, and then she was aware that he had
stopped when he found the fastenings of the door unloosed. She perceived too that he delayed
to examine the lock,--as it was natural that he should do; and she had forgotten that he would
be arrested by the open door. Thinking of this in the moment of time that was allowed to her,
she hurried forward and encountered him.

"Father," she said; "it is I."

He was angry that she should have dared to unbolt the door, or to withdraw the bars. What was
she, that she should be trusted to open or to close the house? And there came upon him some
idea of wanton and improper conduct. Why was she there at that hour? Must it be that he should
put her again from the shelter of his roof?

Carry was clever enough to perceive in a moment what was passing in the old man's mind. "Father,"
she said, "it was to see you. And I thought,--perhaps,--I might say it out here." He believed
her at once. In whatever spirit he might accept her present effort, that other idea had already
vanished. She was there that they two might be alone together in the fresh morning air, and
he knew that it was so. "Father," she said, looking up into his face. Then she fell on the
ground at his feet, and embraced his knees, and lay there sobbing. She had intended to ask
him for forgiveness, but she was not able to say a word. Nor did he speak for awhile; but he
stooped and raised her up tenderly; and then, when she was again standing by him, he stepped
on as though he were going to the mill without a word. But he had not rebuked her, and his
touch had been very gentle. "Father," she said, following him, "if you could forgive me! I
know I have been bad, but if you could forgive me!"

He went to the very door of the mill before he turned; and she, when she saw that he did not
come back to her, paused upon the bridge. She had used all her eloquence. She knew no other
words with which to move him. She felt that she had failed, but she could do no more. But he
stopped again without entering the mill.

"Child," he said at last, "come here, then." She ran at once to meet him. "I will forgive thee.
There. I will forgive thee, and trust thou may'st be a better girl than thou hast been."

She flew to him and threw her arms round his neck and kissed his face and breast. "Oh, father,"
she said, "I will be good. I will try to be good. Only you will speak to me."

"Get thee into the house now. I have forgiven thee." So saying he passed on to his morning's work.

Carry, running into the house, at once roused her sister. "Fanny," she exclaimed, "he has forgiven
me at last; he has said that he will forgive me."

But to the miller's mind, and to his sense of justice, the forgiveness thus spoken did not
suffice. When he returned to breakfast, Mrs. Brattle had, of course, been told of the morning's
work, and had rejoiced greatly. It was to her as though the greatest burden of her life had
now been taken from her weary back. Her girl, to her loving motherly heart, now that he who
had in all things been the lord of her life had vouchsafed his pardon to the poor sinner, would
be as pure as when she had played about the mill in all her girlish innocence. The mother had
known that her child was still under a cloud, but the cloud to her had consisted in the father's
wrath rather than in the feeling of any public shame. To her a sin repented was a sin no more,
and her love for her child made her sure of the sincerity of that repentance. But there could
be no joy over the sinner in this world till the head of the house should again have taken
her to his heart. When the miller came in to his breakfast the three women were standing together,
not without some outward marks of contentment. Mrs. Brattle's cap was clean, and even Fanny,
who was ever tidy and never smart, had managed in some way to add something bright to her appearance.
Where is the woman who, when she has been pleased, will not show her pleasure by some sign
in her outward garniture? But still there was anxiety. "Will he call me Carry?" the girl had
asked. He had not done so when he pronounced her pardon at the mill door. Though they were
standing together they had not decided on any line of action. The pardon had been spoken and
they were sure that it would not be revoked; but how it would operate at first none of them
had even guessed.

The miller, when he had entered the room and come among them, stood with his two hands resting
on the round table, and thus he addressed them: "It was a bad time with us when the girl, whom
we had all loved a'most too well, forgot herself and us, and brought us to shame,--we who had
never known shame afore,--and became a thing so vile as I won't name it. It was well nigh the
death o' me, I know."

"Oh, father!" exclaimed Fanny.

"Hold your peace, Fanny, and let me say my say out. It was very bad then; and when she come
back to us, and was took in, so that she might have her bit to eat under an honest roof, it
was bad still;--for she was a shame to us as had never been shamed afore. For myself I felt
so, that though she was allays near me, my heart was away from her, and she was not one with
me, not as her sister is one, and her mother, who never know'd a thought in her heart as wasn't
fit for a woman to have there." By this time Carry was sobbing on her mother's bosom, and it
would be difficult to say whose affliction was the sharpest. "But them as falls may right themselves,
unless they be chance killed as they falls. If my child be sorry for her sin--"

"Oh, father, I am sorry."

"I will bring myself to forgive her. That it won't stick here," and the miller struck his heart
violently with his open palm, "I won't be such a liar as to say. For there ain't no good in
a lie. But there shall be never a word about it more out o' my mouth,--and she may come to
me again as my child."

There was a solemnity about the old man's speech which struck them all with so much awe that
none of them for a while knew how to move or to speak. Fanny was the first to stir, and she
came to him and put her arm through his and leaned her head upon his shoulder.

"Get me my breakfast, girl," he said to her. But before he had moved Carry had thrown herself
weeping on his bosom. "That will do," he said. "That will do. Sit down and eat thy victuals."
Then there was not another word said, and the breakfast passed off in silence.

Though the women talked of what had occurred throughout the day, not a word more dropped from
the miller's mouth upon the subject. When he came in to dinner he took his food from Carry's
hand and thanked her,--as he would have thanked his elder daughter,--but he did not call her
by her name. Much had to be done in preparing for the morrow's journey, and for the days through
which they two might be detained at the assizes. The miller had borrowed a cart in which he
was to drive himself and his daughter to the Bullhampton road station, and, when he went to
bed, he expressed his determination of starting at nine, so as to catch a certain train into
Salisbury. They had been told that it would be sufficient if they were in the city that day
at one o'clock.

On the next morning the miller was in his mill as usual in the morning. He said nothing about
the work, but the women knew that it must in the main stand still. Everything could not be
trusted to one man, and that man a hireling. But nothing was said of this. He went into his
mill, and the women prepared his breakfast, and the clean shirt and the tidy Sunday coat in
which he was to travel. And Carry was ready dressed for the journey;--so pretty, with her bright
curls and sweet dimpled cheeks, but still with that look of fear and sorrow which the coming
ordeal could not but produce. The miller returned, dressed himself as he was desired, and took
his place at the table in the kitchen; when the front door was again opened,--and Sam Brattle
stood among them!

"Father," said he, "I've turned up just in time."

Of course the consternation among them was great; but no reference was made to the quarrel
which had divided the father and son when last they had parted. Sam explained that he had come
across the country from the north, travelling chiefly by railway, but that he had walked from
the Swindon station to Marlborough on the preceding evening, and from thence to Bullhampton
that morning. He had come by Birmingham and Gloucester, and thence to Swindon.

"And now, mother, if you'll give me a mouthful of some'at to eat, you won't find that I'm above
eating of it."

He had been summoned to Salisbury, he said, for that day, but nothing should induce him to
go there till the Friday. He surmised that he knew a thing or two, and as the trial wouldn't
come off before Friday at the earliest, he wouldn't show his face in Salisbury before that
day. He strongly urged Carry to be equally sagacious, and used some energetic arguments to
the same effect on his father, when he found that his father was also to be at the assizes;
but the miller did not like to be taught by his son, and declared that as the legal document
said Wednesday, on the Wednesday his daughter should be there.

"And what about the mill?" asked Sam. The miller only shook his head. "Then there's only so
much more call for me to stay them two days," said Sam. "I'll be at it hammer and tongs, father,
till it's time for me to start o' Friday. You tell 'em as how I'm coming. I'll be there afore
they want me. And when they've got me they won't get much out of me, I guess."

To all this the miller made no reply, not forbidding his son to work the mill, nor thanking
him for the offer. But Mrs. Brattle and Fanny, who could read every line in his face, knew
that he was well-pleased.

And then there was the confusion of the start. Fanny, in her solicitude for her father, brought
out a little cushion for his seat. "I don't want no cushion to sit on," said he; "give it here
to Carry." It was the first time that he had called her by her name, and it was not lost on
the poor girl.

CHAPTER LXVII.

SIR GREGORY MARRABLE HAS A HEADACHE.

Mary Lowther, in her letter to her aunt, had in one line told the story of her rupture with
Mr. Gilmore. This line had formed a postscript, and the writer had hesitated much before she
added it. She had not intended to write to her aunt on this subject; but she had remembered
at the last moment how much easier it would be to tell the remainder of her story on her arrival
at Loring, if so much had already been told beforehand. Therefore it was that she had added
these words. "Everything has been broken off between me and Mr. Gilmore--for ever."

This was a terrible blow upon poor Miss Marrable, who, up to the moment of her receiving that
letter, thought that her niece was disposed of in the manner that had seemed most desirable
to all her friends. Aunt Sarah loved her niece dearly, and by no means looked forward to improved
happiness in her own old age when she should be left alone in the house at Uphill; but she
entertained the view about young women which is usual with old women who have young women under
their charge, and she thought it much best that this special young woman should get herself
married. The old women are right in their views on this matter; and the young women, who on
this point are not often refractory, are right also. Miss Marrable, who entertained a very
strong opinion on the subject above-mentioned, was very unhappy when she was thus abruptly
told by her own peculiar young woman that this second engagement had been broken off and sent
to the winds. It had become a theory on the part of Mary's friends that the Gilmore match was
the proper thing for her. At last, after many difficulties, the Gilmore match had been arranged.
The anxiety as to Mary's future life was at an end, and the theory of the elders concerned
with her welfare was to be carried out. Then there came a short note, proclaiming her return
home, and simply telling as a fact almost indifferent,--in a single line,--that all the trouble
hitherto taken as to her own disposition had entirely been thrown away. "Everything has been
broken off between me and Mr. Gilmore." It was a cruel and a heartrending postscript!

Poor Miss Marrable knew very well that she was armed with no parental authority. She could
hold her theory, and could advise; but she could do no more. She could not even scold. And
there had been some qualm of conscience on her part as to Walter Marrable, now that Walter
Marrable had been taken in hand and made much of by the baronet,--and now, also, that poor
Gregory had been removed from the path. No doubt she, Aunt Sarah, had done all in her power
to aid the difficulties which had separated the two cousins;--and while she thought that the
Gilmore match had been the consequence of such aiding on her part, she was happy enough in
reflecting upon what she had done. Old Sir Gregory would not have taken Walter by the hand
unless Walter had been free to marry Edith Brownlow; and though she could not quite resolve
that the death of the younger Gregory had been part of the family arrangement due to the happy
policy of the elder Marrables generally, still she was quite sure that Walter's present position
at Dunripple had come entirely from the favour with which he had regarded the baronet's wishes
as to Edith. Mary was provided for with the Squire, who was in immediate possession; and Walter
with his bride would become as it were the eldest son of Dunripple. It was all as comfortable
as could be till there came this unfortunate postscript.

The letter reached her on Friday, and on Saturday Mary arrived. Miss Marrable determined that
she would not complain. As regarded her own comfort it was doubtless all for the best. But
old women are never selfish in regard to the marriage of young women. That the young women
belonging to them should be settled,--and thus got rid of,--is no doubt the great desire; but,
whether the old woman be herself married or a spinster, the desire is founded on an adamantine
confidence that marriage is the most proper and the happiest thing for the young woman. The
belief is so thorough that the woman would cease to be a woman, would already have become a
brute, who would desire to keep any girl belonging to her out of matrimony for the sake of
companionship to herself. But no woman does so desire in regard to those who are dear and near
to her. A dependant, distant in blood, or a paid assistant, may find here and there a want
of the true feminine sympathy; but in regard to a daughter, or one held as a daughter, it is
never wanting. "As the pelican loveth her young do I love thee; and therefore will I give thee
away in marriage to some one strong enough to hold thee, even though my heartstrings be torn
asunder by the parting." Such is always the heart's declaration of the mother respecting her
daughter. The match-making of mothers is the natural result of mother's love; for the ambition
of one woman for another is never other than this,--that the one loved by her shall be given
to a man to be loved more worthily. Poor Aunt Sarah, considering of these things during those
two lonely days, came to the conclusion that if ever Mary were to be so loved again that she
might be given away, a long time might first elapse; and then she was aware that such gifts
given late lose much of their value, and have to be given cheaply.

Mary herself, as she was driven slowly up the hill to her aunt's door, did not share her aunt's
melancholy. To be returned as a bad shilling, which has been presented over the counter and
found to be bad, must be very disagreeable to a young woman's feelings. That was not the case
with Mary Lowther. She had, no doubt, a great sorrow at heart. She had created a shipwreck
which she did regret most bitterly. But the sorrow and the regret were not humiliating, as
they would have been had they been caused by failure on her own part. And then she had behind
her the strong comfort of her own rock, of which nothing should now rob her,--which should
be a rock for rest and safety, and not a rock for shipwreck, and as to the disposition of which
Aunt Sarah's present ideas were so very erroneous!

It was impossible that the first evening should pass without a word or two about poor Gilmore.
Mary knew well enough that she had told her aunt nothing of her renewed engagement with her
cousin; but she could not bring herself at once to utter a song of triumph, as she would have
done had she blurted out all her story. Not a word was said about either lover till they were
seated together in the evening. "What you tell me about Mr. Gilmore has made me so unhappy,"
said Miss Marrable, sadly.

"It could not be helped, Aunt Sarah. I tried my best, but it could not be helped. Of course
I have been very, very unhappy myself."

"I don't pretend to understand it."

"And yet it is so easily understood!" said Mary, pleading hard for herself. "I did not love
him, and--"

"But you had accepted him, Mary."

"I know I had. It is so natural that you should think that I have behaved badly."

"I have not said so, my dear."

"I know that, Aunt Sarah; but if you think so,--and of course you do,--write and ask Janet
Fenwick. She will tell you everything. You know how devoted she is to Mr. Gilmore. She would
have done anything for him. But even she will tell you that at last I could not help it. When
I was so very wretched I thought that I would do my best to comply with other people's wishes.
I got a feeling that nothing signified for myself. If they had told me to go into a convent
or to be a nurse in a hospital I would have gone. I had nothing to care for, and if I could
do what I was told perhaps it might be best."

"But why did you not go on with it, my dear?"

"It was impossible--after Walter had written to me."

"But Walter is to marry Edith Brownlow."

"No, dear aunt; no. Walter is to marry me. Don't look like that, Aunt Sarah. It is true;--it
is, indeed." She had now dragged her chair close to her aunt's seat upon the sofa, so that
she could put her hands upon her aunt's knees. "All that about Miss Brownlow has been a fable."

"Parson John told me that it was fixed."

"It is not fixed. The other thing is fixed. Parson John tells many fables. He is to come here."

"Who is to come here?"

"Walter,--of course. He is to be here,--I don't know how soon; but I shall hear from him. Dear
aunt, you must be good to him;--indeed you must. He is your cousin just as much as mine."

"I'm not in love with him, Mary."

"But I am, Aunt Sarah. Oh dear, how much I am in love with him! It never changed in the least,
though I struggled, and struggled not to think of him. I broke his picture and burned it;--and
I would not have a scrap of his handwriting;--I would not have near me anything that he had
even spoken of. But it was no good. I could not get away from him for an hour. Now I shall
never want to get away from him again. As for Mr. Gilmore, it would have come to the same thing
at last, had I never heard another word from Walter Marrable. I could not have done it."

"I suppose we must submit to it," said Aunt Sarah, after a pause. This certainly was not the
most exhilarating view which might have been taken of the matter as far as Mary was concerned;
but as it did not suggest any open opposition to her scheme, and as there was no refusal to
see Walter when he should again appear at Uphill as her lover, she made no complaint. Miss
Marrable went on to inquire how Sir Gregory would like these plans, which were so diametrically
opposed to his own. As to that, Mary could say nothing. No doubt Walter would make a clean
breast of it to Sir Gregory before he left Dunripple, and would be able to tell them what had
passed when he came to Loring. Mary, however, did not forget to argue that the ground on which
Walter Marrable stood was his own ground. After the death of two men, the youngest of whom
was over seventy, the property would be his property, and could not be taken from him. If Sir
Gregory chose to quarrel with him,--as to the probability of which, Mary and her aunt professed
very different opinions,--they must wait. Waiting now would be very different from what it
had been when their prospects in life had not seemed to depend in any degree upon the succession
to the family property. "And I know myself better now than I did then," said Mary. "Though
it were to be for all my life, I would wait."

On the Monday she got a letter from her cousin. It was very short, and there was not a word
in it about Sir Gregory or Edith Brownlow. It only said that he was the happiest man in the
world, and that he would be at Loring on the following Saturday. He must return at once to
Birmingham, but would certainly be at Loring on Saturday. He had written to his uncle to ask
for hospitality. He did not suppose that Parson John would refuse; but should this be the case,
he would put up at The Dragon. Mary might be quite sure that she would see him on Saturday.

And on the Saturday he came. The parson had consented to receive him; but, not thinking highly
of the wisdom of the proposed visit, had worded his letter rather coldly. But of that Walter
in his present circumstances thought but little. He was hardly within the house before he had
told his story. "You haven't heard, I suppose," he said, "that Mary and I have made it up?"

"How made it up?"

"Well,--I mean that you shall make us man and wife some day."

"But I thought you were to marry Edith Brownlow."

"Who told you that, sir? I am sure Edith did not, nor yet her mother. But I believe these sort
of things are often settled without consulting the principals."

"And what does my brother say?"

"Sir Gregory, you mean?"

"Of course I mean Sir Gregory. I don't suppose you'd ask your father."

"I never had the slightest intention, sir, of asking either one or the other. I don't suppose
that I am to ask his leave to be married, like a young girl; and it isn't likely that any objection
on family grounds could be made to such a woman as Mary Lowther."

"You needn't ask leave of any one, most noble Hector. That is a matter of course. You can marry
the cook-maid to-morrow, if you please. But I thought you meant to live at Dunripple?"

"So I shall,--part of the year; if Sir Gregory likes it."

"And that you were to have an allowance and all that sort of thing. Now, if you do marry the
cook-maid--"

"I am not going to marry the cook-maid,--as you know very well."

"Or if you marry any one else in opposition to my brother's wishes, I don't suppose it likely
that he'll bestow that which he intended to give as a reward to you for following his wishes."

"He can do as he pleases. The moment that it was settled I told him."

"And what did he say?"

"He complained of headache. Sir Gregory very often does complain of headache. When I took leave
of him, he said I should hear from him."

"Then it's all up with Dunripple for you,--as long as he lives. I've no doubt that since poor
Gregory's death your father's interest in the property has been disposed of among the Jews
to the last farthing."

"I shouldn't wonder."

"And you are,--just where you were, my boy."

"That depends entirely upon Sir Gregory. You may be sure of this, sir,--that I shall ask him
for nothing. If the worst comes to the worst, I can go to the Jews as well as my father. I
won't, unless I am driven."

He was with Mary, of course, that evening, walking again along the banks of the Lurwell, as
they had first done now nearly twelve months since. Then the autumn had begun, and now the
last of the summer months was near its close. How very much had happened to her, or had seemed
to happen, during the interval. At that time she had thrice declined Harry Gilmore's suit;
but she had done so without any weight on her own conscience. Her friends had wished her to
marry the man, and therefore she had been troubled; but the trouble had lain light upon her,
and as she looked back at it all, she felt that at that time there had been something of triumph
at her heart. A girl when she is courted knows at any rate that she is thought worthy of courtship,
and in this instance she had been at least courted worthily. Since then a whole world of trouble
had come upon her from that source. She had been driven hither and thither, first by love,
and then by a false idea of duty, till she had come almost to shipwreck. And in her tossing
she had gone against another barque which, for aught she knew, might even yet go down from
the effects of the collision. She could not be all happy, even though she were again leaning
on Walter Marrable's arm, or again sitting with it round her waist, beneath the shade of the
trees on the banks of the Lurwell.

"Then we must wait, and this time we must be patient," she said, when he told her of poor Sir
Gregory's headache.

"I cannot ask him for anything," said Walter.

"Of course not. Do not ask anybody for anything,--but just wait. I have quite made up my mind
that forty-five for the gentleman, and thirty-five for the lady, is quite time enough for marrying."

"The grapes are sour," said Walter.

"They are not sour at all, sir," said Mary.

"I was speaking of my own grapes, as I look at them when I use that argument for my own comfort.
The worst of it is that when we know that the grapes are not sour,--that they are the sweetest
grapes in the world,--the argument is of no use. I won't tell any lies about it, to myself
or anybody else. I want my grapes at once."

"And so do I," said Mary, eagerly; "of course I do. I am not going to make any pretence with
you. Of course I want them at once. But I have learned to know that they are precious enough
to be worth the waiting for. I made a fool of myself once; but I shall not do it again, let
Sir Gregory make himself ever so disagreeable."

This was all very pleasant for Captain Marrable. Ah, yes! what other moment in a man's life
is at all equal to that in which he is being flattered to the top of his bent by the love of
the woman he loves. To be flattered by the love of a woman whom he does not love is almost
equally unpleasant,--if the man be anything of a man. But at the present moment our Captain
was supremely happy. His Thais was telling him that he was indeed her king, and should he not
take the goods with which the gods provided him? To have been robbed of his all by a father,
and to have an uncle who would have a headache instead of making settlements,--these indeed
were drawbacks; but the pleasure was so sweet that even such drawbacks as these could hardly
sully his bliss. "If you knew what your letter was to me!" she said, as she leaned against
his shoulder. His father and his uncle and all the Marrables on the earth might do their worst,
they could not rob the present hour of its joy.

CHAPTER LXVIII.

THE SQUIRE IS VERY OBSTINATE.

Mr. Gilmore left his own home on a Thursday afternoon, and on the Monday when the Vicar again
visited the Privets nothing had been heard of him. Money had been left with the bailiff for
the Saturday wages of the men working about the place, but no provision for anything had been
made beyond that. The Sunday had been wet from morning to night, and nothing could possibly
be more disconsolate than the aspect of things round the house, or more disreputable if they
were to be left in their present condition. The barrows, and the planks, and the pickaxes had
been taken away, which things, though they are not in themselves beautiful, are safeguards
against the ill-effects of ugliness, as they inform the eyes why it is that such disorder lies
around. There was the disorder at the Privets now without any such instruction to the eye.
Pits were full of muddy water, and half-formed paths had become the beds of stagnant pools.
The Vicar then went into the house, and though there was still a workman and a boy who were
listlessly pulling about some rolls of paper, there were ample signs that misfortune had come
and that neglect was the consequence. "And all this," said Fenwick to himself, "because the
man cannot get the idea of a certain woman out of his head!" Then he thought of himself and
his own character, and asked himself whether, in any position of life, he could have been thus
overruled to misery by circumstances altogether outside himself. Misfortunes might come which
would be very heavy; his wife or children might die; or he might become a pauper; or subject
to some crushing disease. But Gilmore's trouble had not fallen upon him from the hands of Providence.
He had set his heart upon the gaining of a thing, and was now absolutely broken-hearted because
he could not have it. And the thing was a woman. Fenwick admitted to himself that the thing
itself was the most worthy for which a man can struggle; but would not admit that even in his
search for that a man should allow his heart to give way, or his strength to be broken down.

He went up to the house again on the Wednesday, and again on the Thursday,--but nothing had
been heard from the Squire. The bailiff was very unhappy. Even though there might come a cheque
on the Saturday morning, which both Fenwick and the bailiff thought to be probable, still there
would be grave difficulties.

"Here'll be the first of September on us afore we know where we are," said the bailiff, "and
is we to go on with the horses?"

For the Squire was of all men the most regular, and began to get his horses into condition
on the first of September as regularly as he began to shoot partridges. The Vicar went home
and then made up his mind that he would go up to London after his friend. He must provide for
his next Sunday's duty, but he could do that out of a neighbouring parish, and he would start
on the morrow. He arranged the matter with his wife and with his friend's curate, and on the
Friday he started.

He drove himself into Salisbury instead of to the Bullhampton Road station in order that he
might travel by the express train. That at least was the reason which he gave to himself and
to his wife. But there was present to his mind the idea that he might look into the court and
see how the trial was going on. Poor Carry Brattle would have a bad time of it beneath a lawyer's
claws. Such a one as Carry, of the evil of whose past life there was no doubt, and who would
appear as a witness against a man whom she had once been engaged to marry, would certainly
meet with no mercy from a cross-examining barrister. The broad landmarks between the respectable
and the disreputable may guide the tone of a lawyer somewhat, when he has a witness in his
power; but the finer lines which separate that which is at the moment good and true from that
which is false and bad cannot be discerned amidst the turmoil of a trial, unless the eyes,
and the ears, and the inner touch of him who has the handling of the victim be of a quality
more than ordinarily high.

The Vicar drove himself over to Salisbury and had an hour there for strolling into the court.
He had heard on the previous day that the case would be brought on the first thing on the Friday,
and it was half-past eleven when he made his way in through the crowd. The train by which he
was to be taken on to London did not start till half-past twelve. At that moment the court
was occupied in deciding whether a certain tradesman, living at Devizes, should or should not
be on the jury. The man himself objected that, being a butcher, he was, by reason of the second
nature acquired in his business, too cruel, and bloody-minded to be entrusted with an affair
of life and death. To a proposition in itself so reasonable no direct answer was made; but
it was argued with great power on behalf of the crown, which seemed to think at the time that
the whole case depended on getting this one particular man into the jury box, that the recalcitrant
juryman was not in truth a butcher, that he was only a dealer in meat, and that though the
stain of the blood descended the cruelty did not. Fenwick remained there till he heard the
case given against the pseudo-butcher, and then retired from the court. He had, however, just
seen Carry Brattle and her father seated side by side on a bench in a little outside room appropriated
to the witnesses, and there had been a constable there seeming to stand on guard over them.
The miller was sitting, leaning on his stick, with his eyes fixed upon the ground, and Carry
was pale, wretched, and draggled. Sam had not yet made his appearance.

"I'm afeard, sir, he'll be in trouble," said Carry to the Vicar.

"Let 'un alone," said the miller; "when they wants 'im he'll be here. He know'd more about
it nor I did."

That afternoon Fenwick went to the club of which he and Gilmore were both members, and found
that his friend was in London. He had been so, at least, that morning at nine o'clock. According
to the porter at the club door, Mr. Gilmore called there every morning for his letters as soon
as the club was open. He did not eat his breakfast in the house, nor, as far as the porter's
memory went, did he even enter the club. Fenwick had lodged himself at an hotel in the immediate
neighbourhood of Pall-Mall, and he made up his mind that his only chance of catching his friend
was to be at the steps of the club door when it was opened at nine o'clock. So he eat his dinner,--very
much in solitude, for on the 28th of August it is not often that the coffee rooms of clubs
are full,--and in the evening took himself to one of the theatres which was still open. His
club had been deserted, and it had seemed to him that the streets also were empty. One old
gentleman, who, together with himself, had employed the forces of the establishment that evening,
had told him that there wasn't a single soul left in London. He had gone to his tailor's and
had found that both the tailor and the foreman were out of town. His publisher,--for our Vicar
did a little in the way of light literature on social subjects, and had brought out a pretty
volume in green and gold on the half-profit system, intending to give his share to a certain
county hospital,--his publisher had been in the north since the 12th, and would not be back
for three weeks. He found, however, a confidential young man who was able to tell him that
the hospital need not increase the number of its wards on this occasion. He had dropped down
to Dean's Yard to see a clerical friend,--but the house was shut up and he could not even get
an answer. He sauntered into the Abbey, and found them mending the organ. He got into a cab
and was driven hither and thither because all the streets were pulled up. He called at the
War-Office to see a young clerk, and found one old messenger fast asleep in his arm-chair.
"Gone for his holiday, sir," said the man in the arm-chair, speaking amidst his dreams, without
waiting to hear the particular name of the young clerk who was wanted. And yet, when he got
to the theatre, it was so full that he could hardly find a seat on which to sit. In all the
world around us there is nothing more singular than the emptiness and the fullness of London.

He was up early the next morning and breakfasted before he went out, thinking that even should
he succeed in catching the Squire, he would not be able to persuade the unhappy man to come
and breakfast with him. At a little before nine he was in Pall-Mall, walking up and down before
the club, and as the clocks struck the hour he began to be impatient. The porter had said that
Gilmore always came exactly at nine, and within two minutes after that hour the Vicar began
to feel that his friend was breaking an engagement and behaving badly to him. By ten minutes
past, the idea had got into his head that all the people in Pall-Mall were watching him, and
at the quarter he was angry and unhappy. He had just counted the seconds up to twenty minutes,
and had begun to consider that it would be absurd for him to walk there all the day, when he
saw the Squire coming slowly along the street. He had been afraid to make himself comfortable
within the club, and there to wait for his friend's coming, lest Gilmore should have escaped
him, not choosing to be thus caught by any one;--and even now he had his fear lest his quarry
should slip through his fingers. He waited till the Squire had gone up to the porter and returned
to the street, and then he crossed over and seized him by the arm. "Harry," he said, "you didn't
expect to see me in London;--did you?"

"Certainly not," said the other, implying very plainly by his looks that the meeting had given
him no special pleasure.

"I came up yesterday afternoon, and I was at Cutcote's the tailor's, and at Messrs. Bringémout
and Neversell's. Bringémout has retired, but it's Neversell that does the business. And then
I went down to see old Drybird, and I called on young Dozey at his office. But everybody is
out of town. I never saw anything like it. I vote that we take to having holidays in the country,
and all come to London, and live in the empty houses."

"I suppose you came up to look after me?" said Gilmore, with a brow as black as a thunder-cloud.

Fenwick perceived that he need not carry on any further his lame pretences. "Well, I did. Come,
old fellow, this won't do, you know. Everything is not to be thrown overboard because a girl
doesn't know her own mind. Aren't your anchors better than that?"

"I haven't an anchor left," said Gilmore.

"How can you be so weak and so wicked as to say so? Come, Harry, take a turn with me in the
park. You may be quite sure I shan't let you go now I've got you."

"You'll have to let me go," said the other.

"Not till I've told you my mind. Everybody is out of town, so I suppose even a parson may light
a cigar down here. Harry, you must come back with me."

"No;--I cannot."

"Do you mean to say that you will yield up all your strength, all your duty, all your life,
and throw over every purpose of your existence because you have been ill-used by a wench? Is
that your idea of manhood,--of that manhood you have so often preached?"

"After what I have suffered there I cannot bear the place."

"You must force yourself to bear it. Do you mean to say that because you are unhappy you will
not pay your debts?"

"I owe no man a shilling;--or, if I do, I will pay it to-morrow."

"There are debts you can only settle by daily payments. To every man living on your land you
owe such a debt. To every friend connected with you by name, or blood, or love, you owe such
a debt. Do you suppose that you can cast yourself adrift, and make yourself a by-word, and
hurt no one but yourself? Why is it that we hate a suicide?"

"Because he sins."

"Because he is a coward, and runs away from the burden which he ought to bear gallantly. He
throws his load down on the roadside, and does not care who may bear it, or who may suffer
because he is too poor a creature to struggle on! Have you no feeling that, though it may be
hard with you here,"--and the Vicar, as he spoke, struck his breast,--"you should so carry
your outer self, that the eyes of those around you should see nothing of the sorrow within?
That is my idea of manliness, and I have ever taken you to be a man."

"We work for the esteem of others while we desire it. I desire nothing now. She has so knocked
me about that I should be a liar if I were to say that there is enough manhood left in me to
bear it. I shan't kill myself."

"No, Harry, you won't do that."

"But I shall give up the place, and go abroad."

"Whom will you serve by that?"

"It is all very well to preach, Frank. Bad as I am I could preach to you if there were a matter
to preach about. I don't know that there is anything much easier than preaching. But as for
practising, you can't do it if you have not got the strength. A man can't walk if you take
away his legs. If you break a bird's wing he can't fly, let the bird be ever so full of pluck.
All that there was in me she has taken out of me. I could fight him, and would willingly, if
I thought there was a chance of his meeting me."

"He would not be such a fool."

"But I could not stand up and look at her."

"She has left Bullhampton, you know."

"It does not matter, Frank. There is the place that I was getting ready for her. And if I were
there, you and your wife would always be thinking about it. And every fellow about the estate
knows the whole story. It seems to me to be almost inconceivable that a woman should have done
such a thing."

"She has not meant to act badly, Harry."

"To tell the truth, when I look back at it all, I blame myself more than her. A man should
never be ass enough to ask any woman a second time. But I had got it into my head that it was
a disgraceful thing to ask and not to have. It is that which kills me now. I do not think that
I will ever again attempt anything, because failure is so hard to me to bear. At any rate,
I won't go back to the Privets." This he added after a pause, during which the Vicar had been
thinking what new arguments he could bring up to urge his friend's return.

Fenwick learned that Gilmore had sent a cheque to his bailiff by the post of the preceding
night. He acknowledged that in sending the cheque he had said no more than to bid the man pay
what wages were due. He had not as yet made up his mind as to any further steps. As they walked
round the enclosure of St. James's Park together, and as the warmth of their old friendship
produced freedom of intercourse, Gilmore acknowledged a dozen wild schemes that had passed
through his brain. That to which he was most wedded was a plan for meeting Walter Marrable
and cudgelling him pretty well to death. Fenwick pointed out three or four objections to this.
In the first place, Marrable had committed no offence whatever against Gilmore. And then, in
all probability, Marrable might be as good at cudgelling as the Squire himself. And thirdly,
when the cudgelling was over, the man who began the row would certainly be put into prison,
and in atonement for that would receive no public sympathy. "You can't throw yourself on the
public pity as a woman might," said the Vicar.

"D---- the public pity," said the Squire, who was not often driven to make his language forcible
after that fashion.

Another scheme was that he would publish the whole transaction. And here again his friend was
obliged to remind him, that a man in his position should be reticent rather than outspoken.
"You have already declared," said the Vicar, "that you can't endure failure, and yet you want
to make your failure known to all the world." His third proposition was more absurd still.
He would write such a letter to Mary Lowther as would cover her head with red hot coals. He
would tell her that she had made the world utterly unbearable to him, and that she might have
the Privets for herself and go and live there. "I do not doubt but that such a letter would
annoy her," said the Vicar.

"Why should I care how much she is annoyed?"

"Just so;--but everyone who saw the letter would know that it was pretence and bombast. Of
course you will do nothing of the kind."

They were together pretty nearly the whole day. Gilmore, no doubt, would have avoided the Vicar
in the morning had it been possible; but now that he had been caught, and had been made to
undergo his friend's lectures, he was rather grateful than otherwise for something in the shape
of society. It was Fenwick's desire to induce him to return to Bullhampton. If this could not
be done, it would no doubt be well that some authority should be obtained from him as to the
management of the place. But this subject had not been mooted as yet, because Fenwick felt
that if he once acknowledged that the runaway might continue to be a runaway, his chance of
bringing the man back to his own home would be much lessened. As yet, however, he had made
no impression in that direction. At last they parted on an understanding that they were to
breakfast together the next morning at Fenwick's hotel, and then go to the eleven o'clock Sunday
service at a certain noted metropolitan church. At breakfast, and during the walk to church,
Fenwick said not a word to his friend about Bullhampton. He talked of church services, of ritual,
of the quietness of a Sunday in London, and of the Sunday occupations of three millions of
people not a fourth of whom attend divine service. He chose any subject other than that of
which Gilmore was thinking. But as soon as they were out of church he made another attack upon
him. "After that, Harry, don't you feel like trying to do your duty?"

"I feel that I can't fly because my wing is broken," said the Squire.

They spent the whole of the afternoon and evening together, but no good was done. Gilmore,
as far as he had a plan, intended to go abroad, travel to the East, or to the West,--or to
the South, if so it came about. The Privets might be let if any would choose to take the place.
As far as he was concerned his income from his tenants would be more than he wanted. "As for
doing them any good, I never did them any good," he said, as he parted from the Vicar for the
night. "If they can't live on the land without my being at home, I am sure they won't if I
stay there."

CHAPTER LXIX.

THE TRIAL.

The miller, as he was starting from his house door, had called his daughter by her own name
for the first time since her return home,--and Carry had been comforted. But no further comfort
came to her during her journey to Salisbury from her father's speech. He hardly spoke the whole
morning, and when he did say a word as to any matter on the work they had in hand, his voice
was low and melancholy. Carry knew well, as did every one at Bullhampton, that her father was
a man not much given to conversation, and she had not expected him to talk to her; but the
silence, together with the load at her heart as to the ordeal of her examination, was very
heavy on her. If she could have asked questions, and received encouragement, she could have
borne her position comparatively with ease.

The instructions with which the miller was furnished required that Carry Brattle should present
herself at a certain office in Salisbury at a certain hour on that Wednesday. Exactly at that
hour she and her father were at the place indicated, already having visited their lodgings
at Mrs. Stiggs'. They were then told that they would not be again wanted on that day, but that
they must infallibly be in the Court the next morning at half-past nine. The attorney's clerk
whom they saw, when he learned that Sam Brattle was not yet in Salisbury, expressed an opinion
as to that young man's iniquity which led Carry to think that he was certainly in more danger
than either of the prisoners. As they left the office, she suggested to her father that a message
should be immediately sent to Bullhampton after Sam. "Let 'un be," said the miller; and it
was all that he did say. On that evening they retired to the interior of one of the bedrooms
at Trotter's Buildings, at four o'clock in the afternoon, and did not leave the house again.
Anything more dreary than those hours could not be imagined. The miller, who was accustomed
to work hard all day and then to rest, did not know what to do with his limbs. Carry, seeing
his misery, and thinking rather of that than her own, suggested to him that they should go
out and walk round the town. "Bide as thee be," said the miller; "it ain't no time now for
showing theeself." Carry took the rebuke without a word, but turned her head to hide her tears.

And the next day was worse, because it was longer. Exactly at half-past nine they were down
at the court; and there they hung about till half-past ten. Then they were told that their
affair would not be brought on till the Friday, but that at half-past nine on that day, it
would undoubtedly be commenced; and that if Sam was not there then, it would go very hard with
Sam. The miller, who was beginning to lose his respect for the young man from whom he received
these communications, muttered something about Sam being all right. "You'll find he won't be
all right if he isn't here at half-past nine to-morrow," said the young man. "There is them
as their bark is worse than their bite," said the miller. Then they went back to Trotter's
Buildings, and did not stir outside of Mrs. Stiggs' house throughout the whole day.

On the Friday, which was in truth to be the day of the trial, they were again in court at half-past
nine; and there, as we have seen, they were found, two hours later, by Mr. Fenwick, waiting
patiently while the great preliminary affair of the dealer in meat was being settled. At that
hour Sam had not made his appearance; but between twelve and one he sauntered into the comfortless
room in which Carry was still sitting with her father. The sight of him was a joy to poor Carry,
as he would speak to her, and tell her something of what was going on. "I'm about in time for
the play, father," he said, coming up to them. The miller picked up his hat, and scratched
his head, and muttered something. But there had been a sparkle in his eye when he saw Sam.
In truth, the sight in all the world most agreeable to the old man's eyes was the figure of
his youngest son. To the miller no Apollo could have been more perfect in beauty, and no Hercules
more useful in strength. Carry's sweet woman's brightness had once been as dear to him,--but
all that had now passed away.

"Is it a'going all through?" asked the miller, referring to the mill.

"Running as pretty as a coach-and-four when I left at seven this morning," said Sam.

"And how did thee come?"

"By the marrow-bone stage, as don't pay no tolls; how else?" The miller did not express a single
word of approbation, but he looked up and down at his son's legs and limbs, delighted to think
that the young man was at work in the mill this morning, had since that walked seventeen miles,
and now stood before them showing no sign of fatigue.

"What are they a'doing on now, Sam?" asked Carry, in a whisper. Sam had already been into the
court, and was able to inform them that the "big swell of all was making a speech, in which
he was telling everybody every 'varsal thing about it. And what do you think, father?"

"I don't think nothing," said the miller.

"They've been and found Trumbull's money-box buried in old mother Burrows's garden at Pycroft."
Carry uttered the slightest possible scream as she heard this, thinking of the place which
she had known so well. "Dash my buttons if they ain't," continued Sam. "It's about up with
'em now."

"They'll be hung--of course," said the miller.

"What asses men is," said Sam; "--to go to bury the box there! Why didn't they smash it into
atoms?"

"Them as goes crooked in big things is like to go crooked in little," said the miller.

At about two Sam and Carry were told to go into Court, and way was made for the old man to
accompany them. At that moment the cross-examination was being continued of the man who, early
on the Sunday morning, had seen the Grinder with his companion in the cart on the road leading
towards Pycroft Common. A big burly barrister, with a broad forehead and grey eyes, was questioning
this witness as to the identity of the men in the cart; and at every answer that he received
he turned round to the jury as though he would say "There, then, what do you think of the case
now, when such a man as that is brought before you to give evidence?" "You will swear, then,
that these two men who are here in the dock were the two men you saw that morning in that cart?"
The witness said that he would so swear. "You knew them both before, of course?" The witness
declared that he had never seen either of them before in his life. "And you expect the jury
to believe, now that the lives of these men depend on their believing it, that after the lapse
of a year you can identify these two men, whom you had never seen before, and who were at that
time being carried along the road at the rate of eight or ten miles an hour?" The witness,
who had already encountered a good many of these questions, and who was inclined to be rough
rather than timid, said that he didn't care twopence what the jury believed. It was simply
his business to tell what he knew. Then the judge looked at that wicked witness,--who had talked
in this wretched, jeering way about twopence!--looked at him over his spectacles, and shaking
his head as though with pity at that witness's wickedness, cautioned him as to the peril of
his body, making, too, a marked reference to the peril of his soul by that melancholy wagging
of the head. Then the burly barrister with the broad forehead looked up beseechingly to the
jury. Was it right that any man should be hung for any offence against whom such a witness
as this was brought up to give testimony? It was the manifest feeling of the crowd in the court
that the witness himself ought to be hung immediately. "You may go down, sir," said the burly
barrister, giving an impression to those who looked on, but did not understand, that the case
was over as far as it depended on that man's evidence. The burly barrister himself was not
so sanguine. He knew very well that the judge who had wagged his head in so melancholy a way
at the iniquity of a witness who had dared to say that he didn't care twopence, would, when
he was summing up, refer to the presence of the two prisoners in the cart as a thing fairly
supported by evidence. The amount of the burly barrister's achievement was simply this,--that
for the moment a sort of sympathy was excited on behalf of the prisoners by the disapprobation
which was aroused against the wicked man who hadn't cared twopence. Sympathy, like electricity,
will run so quick that no man may stop it. If sympathy might be made to run through the jury-box
there might perchance be a man or two there weak enough to entertain it to the prejudice of
his duty on that day. The hopes of the burly barrister in this matter did not go further than that.

Then there was another man put forward who had seen neither of the prisoners, but had seen
the cart and pony at Pycroft Common, and had known that the cart and pony were for the time
in the possession of the Grinder. He was questioned by the burly barrister about himself rather
than about his evidence; and when he had been made to own that he had been five times in prison,
the burly barrister was almost justified in the look he gave to the jury, and he shook his
head as though in sorrow that his learned friend on the other side should have dared to bring
such a man as that before them as a witness.

Various others were brought up and examined before poor Carry's turn had come; and on each
occasion, as one after another was dismissed from the hands of the burly barrister, here one
crushed and confounded, there another loud and triumphant, her heart was almost in her throat.
And yet though she so dreaded the moment when it should come, there was a sense of wretched
disappointment in that she was kept waiting. It was now between four and five, and whispers
began to be rife that the Crown would not finish their case that day. There was much trouble
and more amusement with the old woman who had been Trumbull's housekeeper. She was very deaf;
but it had been discovered that there was an old friendship between her and the Grinder's mother,
and that she had at one time whispered the fact of the farmer's money into the ears of Mrs.
Burrows of Pycroft Common. Deaf as she was, she was made to admit this. Mrs. Burrows was also
examined, but she would admit nothing. She had never heard of the money, or of Farmer Trumbull,
or of the murder,--not till the world heard of it, and she knew nothing about her son's doings
or comings or goings. No doubt she had given shelter to a young woman at the request of a friend
of her son, the young woman paying her ten shillings a week for her board and lodging. That
young woman was Carry Brattle. Her son and that young man had certainly been at her house together;
but she could not at all say whether they had been there on that Sunday morning. Perhaps, of
all who had been examined Mrs. Burrows was the most capable witness, for the lawyer who examined
her on behalf of the Crown was able to extract absolutely nothing from her. When she turned
herself round with an air of satisfaction, to face the questions of the burly barrister, she
was told that he had no question to ask her. "It's all as one to me, sir," said Mrs. Burrows,
as she smoothed her apron and went down.

And then it was poor Carry's turn. When the name of Caroline Brattle was called she turned
her eyes beseechingly to her father, as though hoping that he would accompany her in this the
dreaded moment of her punishment. She caught him convulsively by the sleeve of the coat, as
she was partly dragged and partly shoved on towards the little box in which she was to take
her stand. He accompanied her to the foot of the two or three steps which she was called on
to ascend, but of course he could go no further with her.

"I'll bide nigh thee, Carry," he said; and it was the only word which he had spoken to comfort
her that day. It did, however, serve to lessen her present misery, and added something to her
poor stock of courage. "Your name is Caroline Brattle?" "And you were living on the thirty-first
of last August with Mrs. Burrows at Pycroft Common?" "Do you remember Sunday the thirty-first
of August?" These, and two or three other questions like them were asked by a young barrister
in the mildest tone he could assume. "Speak out, Miss Brattle," he said, "and then there will
be nothing to trouble you." "Yes, sir," she said, in answer to each of the questions, still
almost in a whisper.

Nothing to trouble her, and all the eyes of that cruel world around fixed upon her! Nothing
to trouble her, and every ear on the alert to hear her,--young and pretty as she was,--confess
her own shame in that public court! Nothing to trouble her, when she would so willingly have
died to escape the agony that was coming on her! For she knew that it would come. Though she
had never been in a court of law before, and had had no one tell her what would happen, she
knew that the question would be asked. She was sure that she would be made to say what she
had been before all that crowd of men.

The evidence which she could give, though it was material, was very short. John Burrows and
Lawrence Acorn had come to the cottage on Pycroft Common on that Sunday morning, and there
she had seen both of them. It was daylight when they came, but still it was very early. She
had not observed the clock, but she thought that it may have been about five. The men were
in and out of the house, but they had some breakfast. She had risen from bed to help to get
them their breakfast. If anything had been buried by them in the garden, she had known nothing
of it. She had then received three sovereigns from Acorn, whom she was engaged to marry. From
that day to the present she had never seen either of the men. As soon as she heard of the suspicion
against Acorn, and that he had fled, she conceived her engagement to be at an end. All this
she testified, with infinite difficulty, in so low a voice that a man was sworn to stand by
her and repeat her answers aloud to the jury;--and then she was handed over to the burly barrister.

She had been long enough in the court to perceive, and had been clever enough to learn, that
this man would be her enemy. Though she had been unable to speak aloud in answering the counsel
for the prosecution, she had quite understood that the man was her friend,--that he was only
putting to her those questions which must be asked,--and questions which she could answer without
much difficulty. But when she was told to attend to what the other gentleman would say to her,
then, indeed, her poor heart failed her.

It came at once. "My dear, I believe you have been indiscreet?" The words, perhaps, had been
chosen with some idea of mercy, but certainly there was no mercy in the tone. The man's voice
was loud, and there was something in it almost of a jeer,--something which seemed to leave
an impression on the hearer that there had been pleasure in the asking it. She struggled to
make an answer, and the monosyllable, yes, was formed by her lips. The man who was acting as
her mouthpiece stooped down his ears to her lips, and then shook his head. Assuredly no sound
had come from them that could have reached his sense, had he been ever so close. The burly
barrister waited in patience, looking now at her, and now round at the court. "I must have
an answer. I say that I believe you have been indiscreet. You know, I dare say, what I mean.
Yes or no will do; but I must have an answer." She glanced round for an instant, trying to
catch her father's eye; but she could see nothing; everything seemed to swim before her except
the broad face of that burly barrister. "Has she given any answer?" he asked of the mouthpiece;
and the mouthpiece again shook his head. The heart of the mouthpiece was tender, and he was
beginning to hate the burly barrister. "My dear," said the burly barrister, "the jury must
have the information from you."

Then gradually there was heard through the court the gurgling sounds of irrepressible sobs,--and
with them there came a moan from the old man, who was only divided from his daughter by the
few steps,--which was understood by the whole crowd. The story of the poor girl, in reference
to the trial, had been so noised about that it was known to all the listeners. That spark of
sympathy, of which we have said that its course cannot be arrested when it once finds its way
into a crowd, had been created, and there was hardly present then one, either man or woman,
who would not have prayed that Carry Brattle might be spared if it were possible. There was
a juryman there, a father with many daughters, who thought that it might not misbecome him
to put forward such a prayer himself.

"Perhaps it mayn't be necessary," said the soft-hearted juryman.

But the burly barrister was not a man who liked to be taught his duty by any one in court,--not
even by a juryman,--and his quick intellect immediately told him that he must seize the spark
of sympathy in its flight. It could not be stopped, but it might be turned to his own purpose.
It would not suffice for him now that he should simply defend the question he had asked. The
court was showing its aptitude for pathos, and he also must be pathetic on his own side. He
knew well enough that he could not arrest public opinion which was going against him, by shewing
that his question was a proper question; but he might do so by proving at once how tender was
his own heart.

"It is a pain and grief to me," said he, "to bring sorrow upon any one. But look at those prisoners
at the bar, whose lives are committed to my charge, and know that I, as their advocate, love
them while they are my clients as well as any father can love his child. I will spend myself
for them, even though it may be at the risk of the harsh judgment of those around me. It is
my duty to prove to the jury on their behalf that the life of this young woman has been such
as to invalidate her testimony against them;--and that duty I shall do, fearless of the remarks
of any one. Now I ask you again, Caroline Brattle, whether you are not one of the unfortunates?"

This attempt of the burly barrister was to a certain extent successful. The juryman who had
daughters of his own had been put down, and the barrister had given, at any rate, an answer
to the attack that had been silently made on him by the feeling of the court. Let a man be
ready with a reply, be it ever so bad a reply, and any attack is parried. But Carry had given
no answer to the question, and those who looked at her thought it very improbable that she
would be able to do so. She had clutched the arm of the man who stood by her, and in the midst
of her sobs was looking round with snatched, quick, half-completed glances for protection to
the spot on which her father and brother were standing. The old man had moaned once; but after
that he uttered no sound. He stood leaning on his stick with his eyes fixed upon the ground,
quite motionless. Sam was standing with his hands grasping the woodwork before him and his
bold gaze fastened on the barrister's face, as though he were about to fly at him. The burly
barrister saw it all and perceived that more was to be gained by sparing than by persecuting
his witness, and resolved to let her go.

"I believe that will do," he said. "Your silence tells all that I wish the jury to know. You
may go down." Then the man who had acted as mouthpiece led Carry away, delivered her up to
her father, and guided them both out of court.

They went back to the room in which they had before been seated, and there they waited for
Sam, who was called into the witness-box as they left the court.

"Oh, father," said Carry, as soon as the old man was again placed upon the bench. And she stood
over him, and put her hand upon his neck.

"We've won through it, girl, and let that be enough," said the miller. Then she sat down close
by his side, and not another word was spoken by them till Sam returned.

Sam's evidence was, in fact, but of little use. He had had dealings with Acorn, who had introduced
him to Burrows, and had known the two men at the old woman's cottage on the Common. When he
was asked, what these dealings had been, he said they were honest dealings.

"About your sister's marriage?" suggested the crown lawyer.

"Well,--yes," said Sam. And then he stated that the men had come over to Bullhampton and that
he had accompanied them as they walked round Farmer Trumbull's house. He had taken them into
the Vicar's garden; and then he gave an account of the meeting there with Mr. Fenwick. After
that he had known and seen nothing of the men. When he testified so far he was handed over
to the burly barrister.

The burly barrister tried all he knew, but he could make nothing of this witness. A question
was asked him, the true answer to which would have implied that his sister's life had been
disreputable. When this was asked Sam declared that he would not say a word about his sister
one way or the other. His sister had told them all she knew about the murder, and now he had
told them all he knew. He protested that he was willing to answer any questions they might
ask him about himself; but about his sister he would answer none. When told that the information
desired might be got in a more injurious way from other sources, he became rather impudent.

"Then you may go to--other sources," he said.

He was threatened with all manner of pains and penalties; but he made nothing of these threats,
and was at last allowed to leave the box. When his evidence was completed the trial was adjourned
for another day.

Though it was then late in the afternoon the three Brattles returned home that night. There
was a train which took them to the Bullhampton Road station, and from thence they walked to
the mill. It was a weary journey both for the poor girl and for the old man; but anything was
better than delay for another night in Trotter's Buildings. And then the miller was unwilling
to be absent from his mill one hour longer than was necessary. When there came to be a question
whether he could walk, he laughed the difficulty to scorn in his quiet way. "Why shouldn't
I walk it? Ain't I got to 'arn my bread every day?"

It was ten o'clock when they reached the mill, and Mrs. Brattle, not expecting them at that
hour, was in bed. But Fanny was up, and did what she could to comfort them. But no one could
ever comfort old Brattle. He was not susceptible to soft influences. It may almost be said
that he condemned himself because he gave way to the daily luxury of a pipe. He believed in
plenty of food, because food for the workman is as coals to the steam-engine, as oats to the
horse,--the raw material out of which the motive power of labour must be made. Beyond eating
and working a man had little to do, but just to wait till he died. That was his theory of life
in these his latter days; and yet he was a man with keen feelings and a loving heart.

But Carry was comforted when her sister's arms were around her. "They asked me if I was bad,"
she said, "and I thought I should a' died, and I never answered them a word,--and at last they
let me go." When Fanny inquired whether their father had been kind to her, she declared that
he had been "main kind." "But, oh, Fanny! if he'd only say a word, it would warm one's heart;
wouldn't it?"

On the following evening news reached Bullhampton that the Grinder had been convicted and sentenced
to death, but that Lawrence Acorn had been acquitted. The judge, in his summing up, had shown
that certain evidence which applied to the Grinder had not applied to his comrade in the dock,
and the jury had been willing to take any excuse for saving one man from the halter.

CHAPTER LXX.

THE FATE OF THE PUDDLEHAMITES.

Fenwick and Gilmore breakfasted together on the morning that the former left London for Bullhampton;
and by that time the Vicar had assured himself that it would be quite impossible to induce
his friend to go back to his home. "I shall turn up after some years if I live," said the Squire;
"and I suppose I shan't think so much about it then; but for the present I will not go to the
place."

He authorised Fenwick to do what he pleased about the house and the gardens, and promised to
give instructions as to the sale of his horses. If the whole place were not let, the bailiff
might, he suggested, carry on the farm himself. When he was urged as to his duty, he again
answered by his illustration of the man without a leg. "It may be all very true," he said,
"that a man ought to walk, but if you cut off his leg he can't walk." Fenwick at last found
that there was nothing more to be said, and he was constrained to take his leave.

"May I tell her that you forgive her?" the Vicar asked, as they were walking together up and
down the station in the Waterloo Road.

"She will not care a brass farthing for my forgiveness," said Gilmore.

"You wrong her there. I am sure that nothing would give her so much comfort as such a message."

Gilmore walked half the length of the platform before he replied. "What is the good of telling
a lie about it?"--he said, at last.

"I certainly would not tell a lie."

"Then I can't say that I forgive her. How is a man to forgive such treatment? If I said that
I did, you wouldn't believe me. I will keep out of her way, and that will be better for her
than forgiving her."

"Some of your wrath, I fear, falls to my lot?" said the Vicar.

"No, Frank. You and your wife have done the best for me all through,--as far as you thought
was best."

"We have meant to do so."

"And if she has been false to me as no woman was ever false before, that is not your fault.
As for the jewels, tell your wife to lock them up,--or to throw them away if she likes that
better. My brother's wife will have them some day, I suppose." Now his brother was in India,
and his brother's wife he had never seen. Then there was a pledge given that Gilmore would
inform his friend by letter of his future destination, and so they parted.

This was on the Tuesday, and Fenwick had desired that his gig might meet him at the Bullhampton
Road station. He had learned by this time of the condemnation of one man for the murder, and
the acquittal of the other, and was full of the subject when his groom was seated beside him.
Had the Brattles come back to the mill? And what of Sam? And what did the people say about
Acorn's escape? These, and many other questions he asked, but he found that his servant was
so burdened with a matter of separate and of infinitely greater interest, that he could not
be got to give his mind to the late trial. He believed the Brattles were back; he had seen
nothing of Sam; he didn't know anything about Acorn; but the new chapel was going to be pulled
down.

"What!" exclaimed the Vicar;--"not at once?"

"So they was saying, sir, when I come away. And the men was at it,--that is, standing all about.
And there is to be no more preaching, sir. And missus was out in the front looking at 'em as
I drove out of the yard."

Fenwick asked twenty questions, but could obtain no other information than was given in the
first announcement of these astounding news. And as he entered the vicarage he was still asking
questions, and the man was still endeavouring to express his own conviction that that horrible,
damnable, and most heart-breaking red brick building would be demolished, and carted clean
away before the end of the week. For the servants and dependents of the vicarage were staunch
to the interests of the church establishment, with a degree of fervour of which the Vicar himself
knew nothing. They hated Puddleham and dissent. This groom would have liked nothing better
than a commission to punch the head of Mr. Puddleham's eldest son, a young man who had been
employed in a banker's office at Warminster, but had lately come home because he had been found
to have a taste for late hours and public-house parlours; and had made himself busy on the
question of the chapel. The maid servants at the vicarage looked down as from a mighty great
height on the young women of Bullhampton who attended the chapel, and the vicarage gardener,
since he had found out that the chapel stood on glebe land, and ought therefore, to be placed
under his hands, had hardly been able to keep himself off the ground. His proposed cure for
the evil that had been done,--as an immediate remedy before erection and demolition could be
carried out, was to form the vicarage manure pit close against the chapel door,--"and then
let anybody touch our property who dares!" He had, however, been too cautious to carry out
any such strategy as this, without direct authority from the Commander-in-Chief. "Master thinks
a deal too much on 'em," he had said to the groom, almost in disgust at the Vicar's pusillanimity.

When Fenwick reached his own gate there was a crowd of men loitering around the chapel, and
he got out from his gig and joined them. His eye first fell upon Mr. Puddleham, who was standing
directly in front of the door, with his back to the building, wearing on his face an expression
of infinite displeasure. The Vicar was desirous of assuring the minister that no steps need
be taken, at any rate, for the present, towards removing the chapel from its present situation.
But before he could speak to Mr. Puddleham he perceived the builder from Salisbury, who appeared
to be very busy,--Grimes, the Bullhampton tradesman, so lately discomfited, but now triumphant,--Bolt,
the elder, close at Mr. Puddleham's elbow,--his own churchwarden, with one or two other farmers,--and
lastly, Lord St. George himself, walking in company with Mr. Packer, the agent. Many others
from the village were there, so that there was quite a public meeting on the bit of ground
which had been appropriated to Mr. Puddleham's preachings. Fenwick, as soon as he saw Lord
St. George, accosted him before he spoke to the others.

"My friend Mr. Puddleham," said he, "seems to have the benefit of a distinguished congregation
this morning."

"The last, I fear, he will ever have on this spot," said the lord, as he shook hands with the
Vicar.

"I am very sorry to hear you say so, my lord. Of course, I don't know what you are doing, and
I can't make Mr. Puddleham preach here, if he be not willing."

Mr. Puddleham had now joined them. "I am ready and willing," said he, "to do my duty in that
sphere of life to which it has pleased God to call me." And it was evident that he thought
that the sphere to which he had been called was that special chapel opposite to the vicarage
entrance.

"As I was saying," continued the Vicar, "I have neither the wish nor the power to control my
neighbour; but, as far as I am concerned, no step need be taken to displace him. I did not
like this site for the chapel at first; but I have got quit of all that feeling, and Mr. Puddleham
may preach to his heart's content,--as he will, no doubt, to his hearers' welfare, and will
not annoy me in the least." On hearing this, Mr. Puddleham pushed his hat off his forehead
and looked up and frowned, as though the levity of expression in which his rival indulged,
was altogether unbecoming the solemnity of the occasion.

"Mr. Fenwick," said the lord, "we have taken advice, and we find the thing ought to be done,--and
to be done instantly. The leading men of the congregation are quite of that view."

"They are of course unwilling to oppose your noble father, my lord," said the minister.

"And to tell you the truth, Mr. Fenwick," continued Lord St. George, "you might be put, most
unjustly, into a peck of troubles if we did not do this. You have no right to let the glebe
on a building lease, even if you were willing, and high ecclesiastical authority would call
upon you at once to have the nuisance removed."

"Nuisance, my lord!" said Mr. Puddleham, who had seen with half an eye that the son was by
no means worthy of the father.

"Well, yes,--placed in the middle of the Vicar's ground! What would you say if Mr. Fenwick
demanded leave to use your parlour for his vestry room, and to lock up his surplice in your
cupboard?"

"I'm sure he'd try it on before he'd had it a day," said the Vicar, "and very well he'd look
in it," whereupon the minister again raised his hat, and again frowned.

"The long and the short of it is," continued the lord, "that we've, among us, made a most absurd
mistake, and the sooner we put it right the better. My father, feeling that our mistake has
led to all the others, and that we have caused all this confusion, thinks it to be his duty
to pull the chapel down and build it up on the site before proposed near the cross roads. We'll
begin at once, and hope to get it done by Christmas. In the mean time, Mr. Puddleham has consented
to go back to the old chapel."

"Why not let him stay here till the other is finished?" asked the Vicar.

"My dear sir," replied the lord, "we are going to transfer the chapel body and bones. If we
were Yankees we should know how to do it without pulling it in pieces. As it is, we've got
to do it piecemeal. So now, Mr. Hickbody," he continued, turning round to the builder from
Salisbury, "you may go to work at once. The Marquis will be much obliged to you if you will
press it on."

"Certainly, my lord," said Mr. Hickbody, taking off his hat. "We'll put on quite a body of
men, my lord, and his lordship's commands shall be obeyed."

After which Lord St. George and Mr. Fenwick withdrew together from the chapel and walked into
the vicarage.

"If all that be absolutely necessary--" began the Vicar.

"It is, Mr. Fenwick; we've made a mistake." Lord St. George always spoke of his father as "we,"
when there came upon him the necessity of retrieving his father's errors. "And our only way
out of it is to take the bull by the horns at once and put the thing right. It will cost us
about £700, and then there is the bore of having to own ourselves to be wrong. But that is
much better than a fight."

"I should not have fought."

"You would have been driven to fight. And then there is the one absolute fact;--the chapel
ought not to be there. And now I've one other word to say. Don't you think this quarrelling
between clergyman and landlord is bad for the parish?"

"Very bad indeed, Lord St. George."

"Now I'm not going to measure out censure, or to say that we have been wrong, or that you have
been wrong."

"If you do I shall defend myself," said the Vicar.

"Exactly so. But if bygones can be bygones there need be neither offence nor defence." 

That was" a great night with both and children, and Julia laughed all seemed about as half- fledged
little birds took their lessons in return flying merry as they could be when the though a good flood
to see their manoeuvres, and said their motions were awkward enough.


"Mr. Fenwick, is that the way in which you let bygones be bygones?"

"It is very hard to say that I can forget such an injury."

"My father, at any rate, is willing to forget,--and, as he hopes, to forgive. In all disputes
each party of course thinks that he has been right. If you, for the sake of the parish, and
for the sake of Christian charity and goodwill, are ready to meet him half way, all this ill-will
may be buried in the ground."

What could the Vicar do? He felt that he was being cunningly cheated out of his grievance.
He would have had not a minute's hesitation as to forgiving the Marquis, had the Marquis owned
himself to be wrong. But he was now invited to bury the hatchet on even terms, and he knew
that the terms should not be even. And he resented all this the more in his heart because he
understood very well how clever and cunning was the son of his enemy. He did not like to be
cheated out of his forgiveness. But after all, what did it matter? Would it not be enough for
him to know, himself, that he had been right? Was it not much to feel himself free from all
pricks of conscience in the matter?

"If Lord Trowbridge is willing to let it all pass," said he, "so am I."

"I am delighted," said Lord St. George, with spirit; "I will not come in now, because I have
already overstayed my time, but I hope you may hear from my father before long in a spirit
of kindness."

CHAPTER LXXI.

THE END OF MARY LOWTHER'S STORY.

Sir Gregory Marrable's headache was not of long duration. Allusion is here made to that especial
headache under the acute effects of which he had taken so very unpromising a farewell of his
nephew and heir. It lasted, however, for two or three days, during which he had frequent consultations
with Mrs. Brownlow, and had one conversation with Edith. He was disappointed, sorry, and sore
at heart because the desire on which he had set his mind could not be fulfilled; but he was
too weak to cling either to his hope or to his anger. " I must that hear none of this. If two people who happen
to cognize each other chance to meet love- making your humble servant and talk from in my patients'
room, I cannot; but as for match- making and! What all will, I am the when he back to town?
 It is true that he might save any money that Walter would cost him,
and give it to Edith,--but such a scheme of saving for such a purpose was contrary to the old
man's nature. He wanted to have his heir near him at Dunripple. He hated the feeling of desolation
which was presented to him by the idea of Dunripple without some young male Marrable at hand
to help him. He desired, unconsciously, to fill up the void made by the death of his son with
as little trouble as might be. And therefore he consulted Mrs. Brownlow.

Mrs. Brownlow was clearly of opinion that he had better take his nephew, with the encumbrance
of Mary Lowther, and make them both welcome to the house. "We have all heard so much good of
Miss Lowther, you know," said Mrs. Brownlow, "and she is not at all the same as a stranger."

"That is true," said Sir Gregory, willing to be talked over.

"And then, you know, who can say whether Edith would ever have liked him or not. You never
can tell what way a young woman's feelings will go."

On hearing this Sir Gregory uttered some sound intended to express mildly a divergence of opinion.
He did not doubt but what Edith would have been quite willing to fall in love with Walter,
had all things been conformable to her doing so. Mrs. Brownlow did not notice this as she continued,--"At
any rate the poor girl would suffer dreadfully now if she were allowed to think that you should
be divided from your nephew by your regard for her. Indeed, she could hardly stay at Dunripple
if that were so."

Mrs. Brownlow in a mild way suggested that nothing should be said to Edith, and Sir Gregory
gave half a promise that he would be silent. But it was against his nature not to speak. When
the moment came the temptation to say something that could be easily said, and which would
produce some mild excitement, was always too strong for him. "My dear," he said, one evening,
when Edith was hovering round his chair, "you remember what I once said to you about your cousin
Walter?"

"About Captain Marrable, uncle?"

"Well,--he is just the same as a cousin;--it turns out that he is engaged to marry another
cousin,--Mary Lowther."

"She is his real cousin, Uncle Gregory."

"I never saw the young lady,--that I know of."

"Nor have I,--but I've heard so much about her! And everybody says she is nice. I hope they'll
come and live here."

"I don't know yet, my dear."

"He told me all about it when he was here."

"Told you he was going to be married?"

"No, uncle, he did not tell me that exactly;--but he said that--that--. He told me how much
he loved Mary Lowther, and a great deal about her, and I felt sure it would come so."

"Then you are aware that what I had hinted about you and Walter--"

"Don't talk about that, Uncle Gregory. I knew that it was ever so unlikely, and I didn't think
about it. You are so good to me that of course I couldn't say anything. But you may be sure
he is ever so much in love with Miss Lowther; and I do hope we shall be so fond of her!"

Sir Gregory was pacified and his headache for the time was cured. He had had his little scheme,
and it had failed. Edith was very good, and she should still be his pet and his favourite,--but
Walter Marrable should be told that he might marry and bring his bride to Dunripple, and that
if he would sell out of his regiment, the family lawyer should be instructed to make such arrangements
for him as would have been made had he actually been a son. There would be some little difficulty
about the colonel's rights; but the colonel had already seized upon so much that it could not
but be easy to deal with him. On the next morning the letter was written to Walter by Mrs.
Brownlow herself.

About a week after this Mary Lowther, who was waiting at Loring with an outward show of patience,
but with much inward anxiety for further tidings from her lover, received two letters, one
from Walter, and the other from her friend, Janet Fenwick. The reader shall see those, and
the replies which Mary made to them, and then our whole story will have been told as far as
the loves, and hopes, and cares, and troubles of Mary Lowther are concerned. 

   But there are so many other things to consider, and arrange for, man and think
over! Oh dear! Oh dear me!"

But Uncle Titus was again absorbed in his work, and paid not the slightest
heed to- sized rooms and a little bed- room which smithy, no locksmith,
no stables, no stone- breaker' s yard she will be glad to let."

   And the widow' that she could expect no help from him, she went into her
own room, thought everything over there, and that was all he knew about
it. But this prettily expressed, contained the agreeable assurance, that
not one of these dreaded nuisances was to be found in her neighborhood.

   The school and the teacher, an elderly and very wrote immediately,
   house to be seen far or near, except the s address was
   added, in case. should wish farther information. Mrs. Ehrenreich
   The old uncle knew nothing about his brother' s residence in Switzerland,
   now thirty years back. Tannenburg was certainly quiet enough,
   for his brother had always complained of the want of society a member
   of every committee, and was a benevolent man was satisfactory
   so, and Aunt Ninette decided at once to write to the clergyman at Tannenburg
   hopes. Tannenburg
   
   is a small place, with scattered houses," wrote the clergyman."
   There is just such a dwelling as you describe, now ready
   for lodgers. It is occupied by wife' s lamentations. So, seeing residence of
respected family in the neighborhood.

   
   
   
   
   He was carefully again and again and two the expected letter come from
Hamburg. It was very little. worthy woman, who for farther particulars.
Solitude and quiet! this just what Uncle Titus necessitate.

   This man second letter widow, very, and his wife was full of good works. The widow
added setting forth her wishes at full length and in great detail.

   She expressed her satisfaction that the houses Tannenburg Edith Mr.
Birkenfeld, standing surrounded by beautiful gardens, fields and meadows. The Birkenfelds
were the most were so far mill were so far away that not a sound brought an
immediate answer which confirmed her has two good the widow of the school-
apart, and she hoped that the one in question was not situated in
such a way as to be undesirable for the residence of an invalid. wished
to make sure that there was punish in the allowed her to occupy ever
since her husband vicinity no, no slaughter- bungalow nor mill the,
no school, and particularly no. The answer from the could reach her
dwelling from either, and there was no waterfall doubt in that part
of the.

   
   
   Also there s was not a that she herself owed a great deal to
   the kindness of at last decided that it was best to follow the doctor'
   s advice, and take Dora with them money but. In a day or this,
   particularly with regard to her house which was their property,
   and which Mr. Birkenfeld had that' s death.
   

   My own, own, Mary, write me a line instantly to say that
   it is right,--and to say also that you agree with me that
   as it is to be done, 'twere well it were done quickly.

   Yours always, with all my heart,

   W. M.

It was of course necessary that Mary should consult with her aunt before she answered the second
letter. Of that which she received from Mrs. Fenwick she determined to say nothing. Why should
she ever mention to her aunt again a name so painful to her as that of Mr. Gilmore? The thinking
of him could not be avoided. In this, the great struggle of her life, she had endeavoured to
do right, and yet she could not acquit herself of evil. But the pain, though it existed, might
at least be kept out of sight.

"And so you are to go and live at Dunripple at once," said Miss Marrable.

"I suppose we shall.

"Ah, well! It's all right, I'm sure. Of course there is not a word to be said against it. I
hope Sir Gregory won't die before the Colonel. That's all."

"The Colonel is his father, you know."

"I hope there may not come to be trouble about it, that's all. I shall be very lonely, but
of course I had to expect that."

"You'll come to us, Aunt Sarah? You'll be as much there as here."

"Thank you, dear. I don't quite know about that. Sir Gregory is all very well; but one does
like one's own house."

From all which Mary understood that her dear aunt still wished that she might have had her
own way in disposing of her niece's hand,--as her dear friends at Bullhampton had wished to
have theirs.

The following were the answers from Mary to the two letters given above;--

   Loring, 3rd September, 186--.

   DEAR JANET,

   I am very, very, very sorry. I do not know what more I can
   say. I meant to do well all through. When I first told Mr.
   Gilmore that it could not be as he wished it, I was right.
   When I made up my mind that it must be so at last, I was
   right also. I fear I cannot say so much of myself as to
   that middle step which I took, thinking it was best to do
   as I was bidden. I meant to be right, but of course I was
   wrong, and I am very, very sorry. Nevertheless, I am much
   obliged to you for writing to me. Of course I cannot but
   desire to know what he does. If he writes and seems to be
   happy on his travels, pray tell me.

   I have much to tell you of my own happiness,--though, in
   truth, I feel a remorse at being happy when I have caused
   so much unhappiness. Walter is to sell out and to live
   at Dunripple, and I also am to live there when we are
   married. I suppose it will not be long now. I am writing
   to him to-day, though I do not yet know what I shall say
   to him. Sir Gregory has assented, and arrangements are to
   be made, and lawyers are to be consulted, and we are to be
   what Walter calls deputy Squire and Squiress at Dunripple.
   Mrs. Brownlow and Edith Brownlow are still to live there,
   but I am to have the honour of ordering the dinner, and
   looking wise at the housekeeper. Of course I shall feel
   very strange at going into such a house. To you I may
   say how much nicer it would be to go to some place that
   Walter and I could have to ourselves,--as you did when you
   married. But I am not such a simpleton as to repine at
   that. So much has gone as I would have it that I only feel
   myself to be happier than I deserve. What I shall chiefly
   look forward to will be your first visit to Dunripple.

   Your most affectionate friend,

   MARY LOWTHER.

The other letter, as to which Mary had declared that she had not as yet made up her own mind
when she wrote to Mrs. Fenwick, was more difficult in composition.

   Loring, 2nd September, 186--.

   DEAREST WALTER,

   So it is all settled, and I am to be a deputy Squiress! I
   have no objection to urge. As long as you are the deputy
   Squire, I will be the deputy Squiress. For your sake,
   my dearest, I do most heartily rejoice that the affair
   is settled. I think you will be happier as a county
   gentleman than you would have been in the army; and as
   Dunripple must ultimately be your home,--I will say our
   home,--perhaps it is as well that you, and I also, should
   know it as soon as possible. Of course I am very nervous
   about Mrs. Brownlow and her daughter; but though nervous I
   am not fearful; and I shall prepare myself to like them.

   As to that other matter, I hardly know what answer to make
   on so very quick a questioning. It was only the other
   day that it was decided that it was to be;--and there
   ought to be breathing time before one also decides when.
   But, dear Walter, I will do nothing to interfere with
   your prospects. Let me know what you think yourself; but
   remember, in thinking, that a little interval for purposes
   of sentiment and of stitching is always desired by the
   weaker vessel on such an occasion.

   God bless you, my own one,

   Yours always and always, M. L.

   In real truth, I will do whatever you bid me.

Of course, after that, the marriage was not very long postponed. Walter Marrable allowed that
some grace should be given for sentiment, and some also for stitching, but as to neither did
he feel that any long delay was needed. A week for sentiment, and two more for the preparation
of bridal adornments, he thought would be sufficient. There was a compromise at last, as is
usual in such cases, and the marriage took place about the middle of October. No doubt, at
that time of year they went to Italy,--but of that the present narrator is not able to speak
with any certainty. This, however, is certain,--that if they did travel abroad, Mary Marrable
travelled in daily fear lest her unlucky fate should bring her face to face with Mr. Gilmore.
Wherever they went, their tour, in accordance with a contract made by the baronet, was terminated
within two months. For on Christmas Day Mrs. Walter Marrable was to take her place as mistress
of the house at the dinner table.

The reader may, perhaps, desire to know whether things were made altogether smooth with the
Colonel. On this matter Messrs. Block and Curling, the family lawyers, encountered very much
trouble indeed. The Colonel, when application was made to him, was as sweet as honey. He would
do anything for the interests of his dearest son. There did not breathe a father on earth who
cared less for himself or his own position. But still he must live. He submitted to Messrs.
Block and Curling whether it was not necessary that he should live. Messrs. Block and Curling
explained to him very clearly that his brother, the baronet, had nothing to do with his living
or dying,--and that towards his living he had already robbed his son of a large property. At
last, however, he would not make over his life interest in the property, as it would come to
him in the event of his brother dying before him, except on payment of an annuity on and from
that date of £200 a year. He began by asking £500, and was then told that the Captain would
run the chance and would sue his father for the £20,000 in the event of Sir Gregory dying before
the Colonel.

Now the narrator will bid adieu to Mary Lowther, to Loring, and to Dunripple. The conduct of
his heroine, as depicted in these pages, will, he fears, meet with the disapprobation of many
close and good judges of female character. He has endeavoured to describe a young woman, prompted
in all her doings by a conscience wide awake, guided by principle, willing, if need be, to
sacrifice herself, struggling always to keep herself from doing wrong, but yet causing infinite
grief to others, and nearly bringing herself to utter shipwreck, because, for a while, she
allowed herself to believe that it would be right for her to marry a man whom she did not love.

CHAPTER LXXII.

AT TURNOVER CASTLE.

Mrs. Fenwick had many quips and quirks with her husband as to those tidings to be made in a
pleasant spirit which were expected from Turnover Castle. From the very moment that Lord St.
George had given the order,--upon the authority chiefly of the unfortunate Mr. Bolt, who on
this occasion found it to be impossible to refuse to give an authority which a lord demanded
from him,--the demolition of the building had been commenced. Before the first Sunday came
any use of the new chapel for divine service was already impossible. On that day Mr. Puddleham
preached a stirring sermon about tabernacles in general. "It did not matter where the people
of the Lord met," he said, "so long as they did meet to worship the Lord in a proper spirit
of independent resistance to any authority that had not come to them from revelation. Any hedge-side
was a sufficient tabernacle for a devout Christian. But--," and then, without naming any name,
he described the Church of England as a Upas tree which, by its poison, destroyed those beautiful
flowers which strove to spring up amidst the rank grass beneath it and to make the air sweet
within its neighbourhood. Something he said, too, of a weak sister tottering to its base, only
to be followed in its ruin by the speedy prostration of its elder brother. All this was of
course told in detail to the Vicar; but the Vicar refused even to be interested by it. "Of
course he did," said the Vicar. "If a man is to preach, what can he preach but his own views?"

The tidings to be made in a pleasant spirit were not long waited for,--or, at any rate, the
first instalment of them. On the 2nd of September there arrived a large hamper full of partridges,
addressed to Mrs. Fenwick in the Earl's own handwriting. "The very first fruits," said the
Vicar, as he went down to inspect the plentiful provision thus made for the vicarage larder.
Well;--it was certainly better to have partridges from Turnover than accusations of immorality
and infidelity. The Vicar so declared at once, but his wife would not at first agree with him.
"I really should have such pleasure in packing them up and sending them back," said she.

"Indeed, you shall do nothing of the kind."

"The idea of a basket of birds to atone for such insults and calumny as that man has heaped
on you!"

"The birds will be only a first instalment," said the Vicar,--and then there were more quips
and quirks about that. It was presumed by Mr. Fenwick that the second instalment would be the
first pheasants shot in October. But the second instalment came before September was over in
the shape of the following note:--

   Turnover Park, 20th September, 186--.

   The Marquis of Trowbridge and the Ladies Sophie and
   Carolina Stowte request that Mr. and Mrs. Fenwick will do
   them the honour of coming to Turnover Park on Monday the
   6th October, and staying till Saturday the 11th.

"That's an instalment indeed," said Mrs. Fenwick. "And now what on earth are we to do?" The
Vicar admitted that it had become very serious. "We must either go, and endure a terrible time
of it," continued Mrs. Fenwick, "or we must show him very plainly that we will have nothing
more to do with him. I don't see why we are to be annoyed, merely because he is a Marquis."

"It won't be because he is a Marquis."

"Why then? You can't say that you love the old man, or that the Ladies Sophie and Carolina
Stowte are the women you'd have me choose for companions, or that that soapy, silky, humbugging
Lord St. George is to your taste."

"I am not sure about St. George. He can be everything to everybody, and would make an excellent
bishop."

"You know you don't like him, and you know also that you will have a very bad time of it at
Turnover."

"I could shoot pheasants all the week."

"Yes,--with a conviction at the time that the Ladies Sophie and Carolina were calling you an
infidel behind your back for doing so. As for myself I feel perfectly certain that I should
spar with them."

"It isn't because he's a Marquis," said the Vicar, carrying on his argument after a long pause.
"If I know myself, I think I may say that that has no allurement for me. And, to tell the truth,
had he been simply a Marquis, and had I been at liberty to indulge my own wishes, I would never
have allowed myself to be talked out of my righteous anger by that soft-tongued son of his.
But to us he is a man of the very greatest importance, because he owns the land on which the
people live with whom we are concerned. It is for their welfare that he and I should be on
good terms together; and therefore if you don't mind the sacrifice, I think we'll go."

"What;--for the whole week, Frank?"

The Vicar was of opinion that the week might be judiciously curtailed by two days; and, consequently,
Mrs. Fenwick presented her compliments to the Ladies Sophie and Carolina Stowte, and expressed
the great pleasure which she and Mr. Fenwick would have in going to Turnover Park on the Tuesday,
and staying till the Friday.

"So that I shall only be shooting two days," said the Vicar, "which will modify the aspect
of my infidelity considerably."

They went to Turnover Castle. The poor old Marquis had rather a bad time of it for the hour
or two previous to their arrival. It had become an acknowledged fact now in the county that
Sam Brattle had had nothing to do with the murder of Farmer Trumbull, and that his acquaintance
with the murderers had sprung from his desire to see his unfortunate sister settled in marriage
with a man whom he at the time did not know to be disreputable. There had therefore been a
reaction in favour of Sam Brattle, whom the county now began to regard as something of a hero.
The Marquis, understanding all that, had come to be aware that he had wronged the Vicar in
that matter of the murder. And then, though he had been told upon very good authority,--no
less than that of his daughters, who had been so informed by the sisters of a most exemplary
neighbouring curate,--that Mr. Fenwick was a man who believed "just next to nothing," and would
just as soon associate with a downright Pagan like old Brattle, as with any professing Christian,--still
there was the fact of the Bishop's good opinion; and, though the Marquis was a self-willed
man, to him a bishop was always a bishop. It was also clear to him that he had been misled
in those charges which he had made against the Vicar in that matter of poor Carry Brattle's
residence at Salisbury. Something of the truth of the girl's history had come to the ears of
the Marquis, and he had been made to believe that he had been wrong. Then there was the affair
of the chapel, in which, under his son's advice, he was at this moment expending £700 in rectifying
the mistake which he had made. In giving the Marquis his due we must acknowledge that he cared
but little about the money. Marquises, though they may have large properties, are not always
in possession of any number of loose hundreds which they can throw away without feeling the
loss. Nor was the Marquis of Trowbridge so circumstanced now. But that trouble did not gall
him nearly so severely as the necessity which was on him to rectify an error made by himself.
He had done a foolish thing. Under no circumstances should the chapel have been built on that
spot. He knew it now, and he knew that he must apologise. Noblesse oblige. The old lord was
very stupid, very wrong-headed, and sometimes very arrogant; but he would not do a wrong if
he knew it, and nothing on earth would make him tell a wilful lie. The epithet indeed might
have been omitted; for a lie is not a lie unless it be wilful.

Lord Trowbridge passed the hours of this Tuesday morning under the frightful sense of the necessity
for apologising;--and yet he remembered well the impudence of the man, how he had ventured
to allude to the Ladies Stowte, likening them to--to--to--! It was terrible to be thought of.
And his lordship remembered, too, how this man had written about the principal entrance to
his own mansion as though it had been no more than the entrance to any other man's house! Though
the thorns still rankled in his own flesh, he had to own that he himself had been wrong.

And he did it,--with an honesty that was beyond the reach of his much more clever son. When
the Fenwicks arrived, they were taken into the drawing-room, in which were sitting the Ladies
Sophie and Carolina with various guests already assembled at the Castle. In a minute or two
the Marquis shuffled in and shook hands with the two new comers. Then he shuffled about the
room for another minute or two, and at last got his arm through that of the Vicar, and led
him away into his own sanctum. "Mr. Fenwick," he said, "I think it best to express my regret
at once for two things that have occurred."

"It does not signify, my lord."

"But it does signify to me, and if you will listen to me for a moment I shall take your doing
so as a favour added to that which you have conferred upon me in coming here." The Vicar could
only bow and listen. "I am sorry, Mr. Fenwick, that I should have written to the bishop of
this diocese in reference to your conduct." Fenwick found it very difficult to hold his tongue
when this was said. He imagined that the Marquis was going to excuse himself about the chapel,--and
about the chapel he cared nothing at all. But as to that letter to the bishop, he did feel
that the less said about it the better. He restrained himself, however, and the Marquis went
on. "Things had been told me, Mr. Fenwick;--and I thought that I was doing my duty."

"It did me no harm, my lord."

"I believe not. I had been misinformed,--and I apologise." The Marquis paused, and the Vicar
bowed. It is probable that the Vicar did not at all know how deep at that moment were the sufferings
of the Marquis. "And now as to the chapel," continued the Marquis.

"My lord, that is such a trifle that you must let me say that it is not and has not been of
the slightest consequence."

"I was misled as to that bit of ground."

"I only wish, my lord, that the chapel could stand there."

"That is impossible. The land has been appropriated to other purposes, and though we have all
been a little in the dark about our own rights, right must be done. I will only add that I
have the greatest satisfaction in seeing you and Mrs. Fenwick at Turnover, and that I hope
the satisfaction may often be repeated." Then he led the way back into the drawing-room, and
the evil hour had passed over his head.

Upon the whole, things went very well with both the Vicar and his wife during their visit.
He did go out shooting one day, and was treated very civilly by the Turnover gamekeeper, though
he was prepared with no five-pound note at the end of his day's amusement. When he returned
to the house, his host congratulated him on his performance just as cordially as though he
had been one of the laity. On the next day he rode over with Lord St. George to see the County
Hunt kennels, which were then at Charleycoats, and nobody seemed to think him very wicked because
he ventured to have an opinion about hounds. Mrs. Fenwick's amusements were, perhaps, less
exciting, but she went through them with equanimity. She was taken to see the parish schools,
and was walked into the parish church,--in which the Stowte family were possessed of an enormous
recess called a pew, but which was in truth a room, with a fireplace in it. Mrs. Fenwick thought
it did not look very much like a church; but as the Ladies Stowte were clearly very proud of
it she held her peace as to that idea. And so the visit to Turnover Park was made, and the
Fenwicks were driven home.

"After all, there's nothing like burying the hatchet," said he.

"But who sharpened the hatchet?" asked Mrs. Fenwick.

"Never mind who sharpened it. We've buried it."

CHAPTER LXXIII.

CONCLUSION.

There is nothing further left to be told of this story of the village of Bullhampton and its
Vicar beyond what may be necessary to satisfy the reader as to the condition and future prospects
of the Brattle family. The writer of these pages ventures to hope that whatever may have been
the fate in the readers' mind of that couple which are about to settle themselves peaceably
at Dunripple, and to wait there in comfort till their own time for reigning shall have come,
some sympathy may have been felt with those humbler personages who have lived with orderly
industry at the mill,--as, also, with those who, led away by disorderly passions, have strayed
away from it, and have come back again to the old home.

For a couple of days after the return of the miller with his daughter and son, very little
was said about the past;--very little, at least, in which either the father or Sam took any
part. Between the two sisters there were no doubt questions and answers by the hour together
as to every smallest detail of the occurrences at Salisbury. And the mother almost sang hymns
of joy over her child, in that the hour which she had so much dreaded had passed by. But the
miller said not a word;--and Sam was almost equally silent. "But it be all over, Sam?" asked
his mother, anxiously one day. "For certain sure it be all over now?"

"There's one, mother, for whom it ain't all over yet;--poor devil."

"But he was the--murderer, Sam."

"So was t'other fellow. There weren't no difference. If one was more spry to kill t'old chap
than t'other, Acorn was the spryest. That's what I think. But it's done now, and there ain't
been much justice in it. As far as I sees, there never ain't much justice. They was nigh a-hanging
o' me; and if those chaps had thought o' bringing t'old man's box nigh the mill, instead of
over by t'old woman's cottage, they would a hung me;--outright. And then they was twelve months
about it! I don't think much on 'em." When his mother tried to continue the conversation,--which
she would have loved to do with that morbid interest which we always take in a matter which
has been nearly fatal to us, but from which we have escaped,--Sam turned into the mill, saying
that he had had enough of it, and wouldn't have any more.

Then, on the third day, a report of the trial in a county newspaper reached them. This the
miller read all through, painfully, from the beginning to the end, omitting no detail of the
official occurrences. At last, when he came to the account of Sam's evidence, he got up from
the chair on which he was sitting close to the window, and striking his fist upon the table,
made his first and last comment upon the trial. "It was well said, Sam. Yes; though thou be'est
my own, it was well said." Then he put the paper down and walked out of doors, and they could
see that his eyes were full of tears.

But from that time forth there came a great change in his manner to his youngest daughter.
"Well, Carry," he would say to her in the morning, with as much outward sign of affection as
he ever showed to any one; and at night, when she came and stood over him before he lifted
his weary limbs out of his chair to take himself away to his bed, he turned his forehead to
her to be kissed, as he did to that better daughter who had needed no forgiveness from him.
Nevertheless, they who knew him,--and there were none who knew him better than Fanny did,--were
aware that he never for a moment forgot the disgrace which had fallen upon his household. He
had forgiven the sinner, but the shame of the sin was always on him; and he carried himself
as a man who was bound to hide himself from the eyes of his neighbours because there had come
upon him a misfortune which made it fit that he should live in retirement.

