While Fitch was repeating the bids he had received for the oxen, and was about to knock them
off to the highest bidder, which still chanced to be Peters, he was suddenly told to hold on,
by several persons who had just at that moment made their appearance in different parts of
the crowd, and who expressed their wish to bid, as soon as they could get up to examine the
cattle. Owing to the duskiness, the faces of the new comers did not seem to be recognized by
the tories, who unsuspectingly opened and admitted them to the stand. Quickly availing themselves
of the opportunity, the former, among the foremost of whom were Piper and Bart, now crowded
eagerly round the cattle, and, after rapidly passing their hands over the cow and each of the
oxen a moment, and then stepping back, began to banter and bid. Not much time, however, was
allowed them to do either; for the cattle, all at once, became unaccountably restless, at first
backing and wheeling about in their confined space, and then wildly tossing up their heads,
snuffing, and assuming the startled and furious appearance generally exhibited by this class
of animals when about to make a desperate effort to break away.

At this critical juncture, the fierce flashes and stunning reports of a half dozen muskets
burst over the heads of the startled and astonished company from various points on the outer
edge of the crowd; and the next instant the already maddened cattle, with loud snorts, leaping
over or trampling down all in their way, broke through the living hedge of tories around them,
and bounded off, with their tails thrown aloft, and bellowing in wild affright, in different
directions, towards the woods, leaving the amazed and broken crowd jostling and pitching about
with exclamations of surprise, groans of pain, volleys of oaths, and shouts of laughter, all
mingled in Babel-like confusion.

"'Tis all the work of the cursed rebels!" exclaimed Peters, the first to rally and comprehend
the affair. "Fitch!" he added, pointing after the runaway cattle, "where the devil are your
wits, that you don't order a pursuit?"

"Yes, pursue and bring 'em back, instantly!" screamed the constable, awaking from the stupor
and confusion of ideas into which he seemed to have been thrown by the strange and unexpected
occurrence. "Yes,'tis an unlawful rescue--it's a conspiracy! bring back the cattle! seize the
offenders, every one of 'em! in the king's name I command ye."

Obedient to the call, the obsequious tories instantly rallied for the pursuit, and, breaking
off into three distinct bands, eagerly set forward in the different directions taken by the
fugitive cattle, then just disappearing over the distant swells, or in the borders of the woods.
Dunning, Piper and Bart, who, in the mean while, had, unknown and unsuspected in the darkness
and confusion, stood in the throng, keenly watching the result of their plan, no sooner heard
the expected order of pursuit given, than, separating, like their opponents, and each joining
a different band of the pursuers, they sprang in before the rest, and, by their superior alacrity
and speed, soon succeeded in taking the lead and finally in completely distancing all others
in the promiscuous chase. The tories, now soon wholly losing sight of their fleet and, as they
still supposed, trusty guides in the pursuit, became, in a short time, confused and at fault
respecting the courses to be taken; and, after hallooing and running about the woods and pastures
at random, nearly an hour, without discovering any traces either of the lost cattle or the
missing pursuers, at length came straggling back to the Town House, and, by way of saving their
own credit, reported to Fitch, Peters, and the small party remaining there, that their swiftest
runners were last seen nearly up with the cattle, and would soon be in with them, or that the
creatures had been headed, and were on their way back, in another direction. On this, the company
waited another hour; when, neither the cattle nor the expected pursuers appearing, they began
to suspect something amiss; and the inquiries and investigations then put afoot soon resulted
in the mortifying conviction, that the cattle had been overtaken and driven off by the same
persons who previously had caused them to break away. Prompted by the enraged Peters, Fitch
then offered a reward for the recovery of the cattle and the detection of those who had abducted
them; when the company separated, to resume the search the next day. But although this was
done, and the country scoured in every direction for several days, yet the search proved wholly
fruitless. Not one of the cattle was to be found. Nor were the actors in the transaction, with
any certainty, identified, though the absence of Piper and Bart, for some days after the event,
caused them to be suspected and marked for punishment, when they should again appear abroad.

CHAPTER XI.

Perhaps the nearest and dearest, as well as the most interesting tie of consanguity, is that
existing between mother and son. Who has not witnessed the unfailing and unconquerable strength
of a mother's love for the son of her heart and her vows, cleaving to its object through prosperity
and through adversity, through honor and through shame, with a constancy which never wavers?

While the scenes of disorder and tumult we last described, and the similar ones that followed,
were being enacted among the belligerent parties of this misgoverned town, the dutiful and
sorrowing Woodburn was continuing his attendance on his sick mother, from whose bedside no
call of business or of pleasure was suffered for a single hour to lure him. And well might
he have done so, aside even from the dictates of filial duty; for she was a woman not only
of unaffected piety, but of education and intellect; and to her he had been mainly indebted
for all that was good and elevated in his character. She had emigrated with her husband to
this town, at an early period of its settlement from the vicinity of Boston, where the latter
had become so much straitened in his pecuniary circumstances, in consequence of being surety
for an improvident and luckless brother, that he was induced, with the hope of bettering his
fortunes, to gather up the poor remnant of his property, and, with it, remove to the New Hampshire
Grant's, at that time the Eldorado most in vogue among those seeking new countries. Here, having
purchased one of the best tracts of land in the place, he commenced the slow and laborious
process of clearing up a new farm. And this Herculean task, which may well be considered the
work of a man's life, he had, after years of incessant toil and privation, nearly succeeded
in accomplishing, and begun to catch glimpses of easier and brighter days; when he was taken
away by disease, leaving his property to his wife and son, an only child, then drawing towards
manhood. And nobly had that son discharged the double duty which now devolved upon him,--that
of becoming the stay and comforter of his widowed mother, and the sole manager of the farm,
their only dependence. For, while discharging his filial duties in such a manner as to gain
him the reputation of being a pattern of a son, he not only kept good, but, by his industry
and enterprise, even improved, the property to which he had thus succeeded. And he was fast
surmounting the difficulties of his situation, and making hopeful advances towards a competence,
when, in an evil hour, his flourishing little establishment attracted the coveting eye of the
unconscionable Peters, who, owning an adjoining farm, which would be rendered much more salable
by being united with Woodburn's, undertook, at first, to wheedle the young man into a sale,
or rather an exchange of his valuable farm for another, or wild lands, at false valuations
and of doubtful titles. But, finding himself wholly mistaken in the character of the person
whom he thus endeavored to overreach, and consequently failing in his attempt, he next began
to think of the quibbles of the law, as the means of accomplishing his purpose. And having
discovered some slight irregularity in Woodburn's deed, to begin upon, he then resorted to
a trick quite fashionable among the corrupt speculators of those unsettled times--that of purchasing
from some unprincipled person, ready, for a small sum, to enter into the fraud, a deed of prior
date to that of the one to be defeated, with descriptions of premises and references to suit
the purchaser the worthless assumed owner neither knowing nor caring what his deed might convey.
Having secretly procured a prior deed of Woodburn's farm in this manner, Peters could see but
one obstacle now in the way of his success, which was the town records, embracing that of Woodburn's
deed. How was this to be disposed of? A bold measure, which could be executed by his minions
under political pretences, occurred to him; and the result was, that part of the town record
soon disappeared. Peters then commenced an action against Woodburn, to eject him from his farm,
the course and consequences of which are already known to the reader.

Spring had now come; but its bland and balmy breath brought no relief to the suffering widow.
From the hour she had been compelled to take to her bed, her disease, though sometimes lulled,
or raging less fiercely than at other times, had never for a moment loosened its tenacious
grasp. And although her cheerful words, and meek, uncomplaining looks, had often misled her
anxious son, or, at least, prevented him from despairing of her recovery, yet the dry, parched,
red tongue, the daily return of the bright hectic spot, and the tense, hurrying and unvarying
beat of the strained pulses, might have told him how certainly and rapidly the work of destruction
was going on at the citadel of life, and better prepared him for the agonizing scene which
was now to follow.

It was a calm and pleasant evening towards the close of April, and the low descending sun was
shedding the mellow light of his parting beams over the joyful face of reanimating nature.
The invalid, during all the fore part of the day, had suffered greatly from pain--that general
and undefinable distress which is so frequently found to be the precursor of approaching dissolution.
To this had succeeded a sort of lethargic sleep, from which it was not easy to arouse her,
so that she could be made to take any notice of what was passing around her. But now she awoke,
clear and collected; and, glancing round the room, with a sort of pensive animation, met and
answered the inquiring and solicitous look of her son with an affectionate smile. Presently
her wandering eye rested on some objects of the landscape, glimpses of which she had caught
through one of the small patched windows of the room, and she faintly observed,--

"How pleasant it appears without! Harry," she continued after a thoughtful pause, "could you
take out that window before me? I feel a desire to look out once more on the green earth and
breathe the sweet air of spring."

"Yes, mother," said the other, approaching the bed, with a surprised and hesitating air; "yes,
I could easily do it, I presume; but would it be quite safe for you to be exposed to the evening
air?"

"Yes, Harry; the time for the exercise of such cares is gone by. You need fear no more for
me, now, my son," she replied in accents of tender sadness.

The son then, with a doubtful and troubled look, proceeded in silence to comply with the unexpected
request; after which, he gently raised the head of the invalid, who, thereupon, gazed long
and thoughtfully on the variegated landscape, which lay spread out in tranquil beauty beneath
her dimly-kindling eye.

"How beautiful!" she at length feebly exclaimed, in a tone of melancholy rapture--"beautiful
of itself, but more beautiful as the type of man's destiny after his body has mingled with
the dust. The scene we here behold, my son, exhibits the resurrection of nature. In summer
the foliage and blossom expands, in autumn the fruit is perfected, and in winter the visible
part falls back to earth and perishes, leaving the hidden seed or germ to spring forth again
into another life. So it has been, so it will be, with me. I have had my brief summer of life,
my still briefer autumn, and now my winter of death is at hand, from which I trust to come
forth into the more glorious spring of life eternal."

"Do not talk thus, mother," responded the son, greatly moved--"do not talk thus: you distress
me. I trust you may yet recover. You certainly look brighter this evening; and I hope another
day will find you still better."

"No, Harry, not better, as you mean. If I appear brighter, it is but the brightness of the
last flashing up of the expiring taper. I feel that my time is come, and thanks to Him who
has prepared my heart to hail the event as a relief and a blessing."

"O, my mother, my mother, how can I part with you?"

"My longer sojourn here, my son, would be of little benefit to others--even to you: my blessing
is worth more than would be my further abiding: come and receive it."

The weeping son then knelt down at the bedside, and the mother laying her hand on his head,
pronounced her blessing and a brief prayer for his earthly prosperity and eternal happiness.

For several minutes, the son, overcome by his emotions, remained kneeling, with his head, on
which still languidly rested the emaciated hand of his dying mother, bowed upon the bed-clothes,
while the latter, sinking back exhausted on her pillow, closed her eyes, and seemed to be silently
communing with herself. She soon, however, aroused herself, and observed,--

"My work is not yet quite done. I have a little more to say before the scene closes."

"Say on, mother," said the other, making an effort to calm himself, as he now rose, and, taking
a seat near, wistfully rivetted his gaze on her pallid face. "If you are, indeed, about to
leave me forever, withhold nothing you feel inclined to communicate; for your dying counsels,
my dear parent, will be received with pleasure and gratitude, and treasured up in heart and
memory as the last, best lesson of one to whom I am under such countless obligations."

"You have ever acted the part of a dutiful son towards me, Harry; and that is always a mother's
best reward for her care and affection for her offspring. And I know not that I have aught
now to say to you, by way of counsel for your future guidance, being willing to leave you to
practise upon the principles I have endeavored to inculcate, and be to others what you have
been to me. But it was not of that I intended to speak. I was about to name some facts connected
with our early reverses, which, it being always unpleasant to recur to those scenes of trial,
I think I have never told you, but which, I thought, it might, perhaps, some day avail you
something to know. You have heard us casually speak, I presume, of your uncle Charles Woodburn?"

"I have, mother."

"And you may also be aware that, through his misconduct, we were suddenly reduced from the
easy competence we once enjoyed to poverty and distress."

"I have so understood it, but never knew what kind of misconduct it was that led to our misfortunes."

"It was imprudence in speculations, and profligacy in living, and not dishonesty, or any intentional
wrong to us, as I ever believed; though your father, in his desperation when the blow came,
would listen to no extenuation, but drove him from his presence with bitter reproaches and
accusations. But your uncle, before leaving the country, as he soon after did, sought an interview
with me; and, after deploring the misfortunes he had brought on my family as well as himself,
solemnly pledged himself that he would, some day or other, more than compensate me or mine
for all the losses he had occasioned us. And this is the circumstance I wished to tell you;
for, though we never received any certain information of him, yet something tells me he still
is alive, and has the means and disposition to fulfil his promise to you whenever you may find
him, and he recognizes you as the representative of his brother's family, of whose location
here he probably was never apprised. I would suggest to you therefore, the expediency of trying
to trace him out, and, if you succeed in doing so, make yourself and your situation known to
him; and, without preferring any claim, leave the result with Providence."

"Your suggestion, mother, shall not pass from me unheeded, nor shall I fail, in due time, to
act upon it; but, at present, I know not if the last tie that binds me to this place should
be severed--I know not but our down-trodden country may have the first claim on my services.
Ever since the startling news of the massacre of Lexington reached us, a sense of the duty
of devoting myself to her defence has pressed heavily and constantly on my mind. And but for
the stronger claim which nature and my own feelings have given you, in your situation, to my
presence and attention, I might, before this, have been with my shouldered musket on my way
to the scene of action. But even in the event of your death, I should hesitate to obey the
call if I knew I must do it without your sanction."

"I thank you, my son, for your affectionate deference; but you shall not go without my sanction.
Having conjectured what might be your feelings at this dark hour of our country's peril, I
was about to speak to you on the subject. Yes, Harry, if you think duty calls you to the field,
in defence of a cause so just and righteous as ours, go. You will be under the care of the
same Providence there as elsewhere. Go, and with a dying mother's blessing, and a prayer of
faith for your safety and success, do battle manfully for the Heaven-favored side, till the
oppressor be cast down, and the oppressed go free."

With a heart swelling with conflicting emotions, the young man looked up to reply, when his
words were arrested on his lips, by the evident change that the countenance of the other had
suddenly undergone. The unnatural animation, which she had exhibited during the conversation,
had faded away. She lay listless and exhausted, with her eyes nearly closed, and her lips slightly
moving in secret prayer.

"And now, Lord, what wait I for?" she at length audibly uttered. "But I am not to wait," she
continued, in a firmer tone after a short pause. "The final moment is at hand! Farewell earth!
farewell, my son! May Heaven's blessings rest on you--on all, and be the offences of all forgiven.
Ah! the light of day is fading; but O, that brighter light which opens those angel forms, with
smiling faces, which beckon me away! Ready! I come!--I come!"

And thus,--

  "--blessing and blest,
   In death she went smiling away
   To the heavenly bosom of rest."

CHAPTER XII.

  "Whene'er your case can be no worse,
   The desperate is the wiser course."

Late in the afternoon, several days subsequent to the melancholy event described in the preceding
chapter, a mingled company, of some dozens of persons, including several town officials, were
seen, assembling at the Tory Tavern, in Guilford; the object of which appearances seemed to
indicate to be the holding of a magistrates' court, to try an offender who had that morning
been arrested, and who now, in custody of Constable Fitch, was demurely sitting on a rude bench
under an open window of the room in which the trial was to be had, and in which the two justices
composing the court had already seated themselves at a table, in readiness, on their part,
to commence proceedings. That offender was no other than our humble friend, Barty Burt, who
had lucklessly fallen into one of the snares which had been set for him and his suspected companions,
round the country, in consequence of the part they had acted in spiriting away, in so strange
a manner, Woodburn's cattle, when about to be sold on town meeting day. He and Piper, during
the night following that affair, after meeting Dunning at an appointed place, and giving him
charge of the cattle, which had been successfully pursued and there collected, to be driven
out of that part of the country by the hunter, left town in different directions, to avoid
the arrest they anticipated, in case they remained; Piper going down the river in quest of
some temporary employment till the storm blew over, and Bart setting off on a fishing excursion
to Marlboro' Pond, situated in a then nearly unsettled section, about ten miles to the north.
Here Bart had pursued his sport unmolested, many days, occasionally going out to Brattleborough
to sell his fish and buy provisions, and considering himself in this secluded situation perfectly
safe from any search which might be made for him by the officers of Guilford. But the reward
offered by the constable for the apprehension of the offenders, who had been soon pretty well
identified, had put all the tories in the town and vicinity on the watch and the result was,
that Bart had been seen, traced to his retreat, seized and brought back for trial.

Although Bart's general demeanor seemed to show a perfect indifference to the fate that now
threatened him, yet the quick keen glances with which, under that show of indifference, he
noted every movement of those into whose power he had fallen and the restlesness he exhibited
when their eyes were not upon him, gave token of no little inward perturbation. And it was
not without reason that his apprehensions were excited; he knew the character and disposition
of the two tory justices whom he saw taking their seats to try him, and he rightly judged that
he need not expect either mercy or justice at their hands. He had also detected one of the
constable's minions, who had been despatched to the woods for the purpose, stealing slyly round
into the horse-shed, on his return, with a half dozen formidable looking green beech rods;
and he was at no loss to decide for whose back they were intended, or by whose ruthless hand
they were to be applied.

"You can't go that, Bart," he mentally exclaimed. "You must get away; so now put your best
contrivances in motion, for I tell you it won't do for you to think of standing that pickle."

And as hopeless as, to all appearance, was any attempt to escape his captors, who stood round
him with loaded pistols in their hands, Bart yet confidently counted on being able, in some
way or other, to slip through their fingers, and avoid the fearful punishment which he knew
was in store for him, if he remained many hours longer in their hands. To effect this, he looked
for no aid from others; for experience had taught him the value of self-reliance. The whole
life of this singular being, indeed, had been one which was peculiarly calculated to throw
him on his own resources, sharpen his wits, and render him fertile in expedients. He had been
a foundling, and knew no more of his parentage than a young ostrich, that springs from the
deserted egg in the sand. He was left, when an infant, at the door of a poor mechanic, in Boston,
by the name of Burt, and by him transferred to the almshouse, where he was called after the
name of his finder, with the pet name of Barty, given him by his nurse. Here he was kept till
he was four or five years old, when he was given to the Shakers, from whom he ran away at ten
or twelve. From that time, the poor friendless boy became a wanderer through the interior country,
generally remaining but a few months in a place, being driven from each successive home by
misusage, or for want of profitable work for him to do, or, what was still oftener the case,
perhaps, for playing off some trick to avenge the fancied or real insult he had received, till,
after having been kicked about the world like a foot-ball, cheated, abused cowed in feeling,
and become, in consequence, abject, uncouth and singular in manner and appearance, he at length
reached the situation in the family of the haughty loyalist where we found him.

While Bart was thus uneasily revolving the matter of his present concern in his mind, and beginning
to cast about him for some means of escape, the constable was called aside by those who had
undertaken to manage the prosecution, for the purpose of holding with them a consultation,
the purport of which, though carried on in a low tone, and at some distance, was soon gathered
by the quick and practised ears of the prisoner. It appeared that the trial was being delayed
in consequence of the absence of Peters, who was an important witness, and who unaccountably
failed to make his appearance. And it being feared that he might have been waylaid, and detained
on the road, by some band of the other party, to prevent him from testifying, as all knew he
was anxious to do, it was settled that Fitch should start immediately in search of him to the
house which he usually made his temporary quarters in another part of the town. Accordingly
the constable, after putting the prisoner in charge of two stout fellows who were in his interest,
with orders to guard him closely, and shoot him down the instant he should attempt to escape,
set forth on his mission after Peters. Bart's countenance brightened when he saw the savage
officer depart, for he believed the absence of the latter would greatly increase his chances
of escape; and in spite of all the threats he had received of being shot, he resolved to improve
that absence in making the attempt, though the manner of doing so yet remained to be decided,
by the circumstances which might occur.

