"It is the only one, dear;" and Jack made the statement with a humorous sense of its truth.
"Well, there's the train, and I'm off with the other clerks."

"Clerk, indeed!" cried Edith, putting up her face to his; "you are going to be a Merchant Prince,
Jack, that is what you are going to be."

On the train there was an atmosphere of business. Jack felt that he was not going to the New
York that he knew--not to his New York, but to a city of traffic; down into the streets of
commercial enterprise, not at all to the metropolis of leisure, of pleasure, to the world of
clubs and drawing-rooms and elegant loiterings and the rivalries of society life. That was
all ended. Jack was hurrying to catch the down-town car for the dingy office of Fletcher &
Co. at an hour fixed.

It was ended, to be sure, but the struggle with Jack in his new life was not ended, his biographer
knows, for months and years.

It was long before he could pass his club windows without a pang of humiliation, or lift his
hat to a lady of his acquaintance in her passing carriage without a vivid feeling of separateness
from his old life. For the old life--he could see that any day in the Avenue, any evening by
the flaming lights--went by in its gilded chariots and entrancing toilets, the fascinating
whirl of Vanity Fair crowned with roses and with ennui. Did he regret it? No doubt. Not to
regret would have been to change his nature, and that were a feat impossible for his biographer
to accomplish. In a way his life was gone, and to build up a new life, serene and enduring,
was not the work of a day.

One thing he did not regret in the shock he had received, and that was the absence of Carmen
and her world. When he thought of her he had a sense of escape. She was still abroad, and he
heard from time to time that Mavick was philandering about from capital to capital in her train.
Certainly he would have envied neither of them if he had been aware, as the reader is aware,
of the guilty secret that drew them together and must be forever their torment. They knew each
other.

But this glittering world, to attain a place in which is the object of most of the struggles
and hungry competition of modern life, seemed not so real nor so desirable when he was at home
with Edith, and in his gradually growing interest in nobler pursuits. They had decided to take
a modest apartment in town for the winter, and almost before the lease was signed, Edith, in
her mind, had transformed it into a charming home. Jack used to rally her on her enthusiasm
in its simple furnishing; it reminded him, he said, of Carmen's interest in her projected house
of Nero. It was a great contrast, to be sure, to their stately house by the Park, but it was
to them both what that had never been. To one who knows how life goes astray in the solicitations
of the great world, there was something pathetic in Edith's pleasure. Even to Jack it might
some day come with the force of keen regret for years wasted, that it is enough to break a
body's heart to see how little a thing can make a woman happy.

It was another summer. Major Fairfax had come down with Jack to spend Sunday at the Golden
House. Edith was showing the Major the view from the end of the veranda. Jack was running through
the evening paper. "Hi!" he cried; "here's news. Mavick is to have the mission to Rome, and
it is rumored that the rich and accomplished Mrs. Henderson, as the wife of the minister, will
make the Roman season very gay."

"It's too bad," said Edith. "Nothing is said about the training-school?"

"Nothing." "Poor Henderson!" was the Major's comment. "It was for this that he drudged and
schemed and heaped up his colossal fortune! His life must look to him like a burlesque."