Objection 1: It would seem that a man cannot merit an increase of grace or charity. For when
anyone receives the reward he merited no other reward is due to him; thus it was said of some
(Matt. 6:2): "They have received their reward." Hence, if anyone were to merit the increase
of charity or grace, it would follow that, when his grace has been increased, he could not
expect any further reward, which is unfitting.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing acts beyond its species. But the principle of merit is grace or charity,
as was shown above (AA. 2, 4). Therefore no one can merit greater grace or charity than he has.

Obj. 3: Further, what falls under merit a man merits by every act flowing from grace or charity,
as by every such act a man merits life everlasting. If, therefore, the increase of grace or
charity falls under merit, it would seem that by every act quickened by charity a man would
merit an increase of charity. But what a man merits, he infallibly receives from God, unless
hindered by subsequent sin; for it is written (2 Tim. 1:12): "I know Whom I have believed,
and I am certain that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him." Hence it would
follow that grace or charity is increased by every meritorious act; and this would seem impossible
since at times meritorious acts are not very fervent, and would not suffice for the increase
of charity. Therefore the increase of charity does not come under merit.

On the contrary, Augustine says (super Ep. Joan.; cf. Ep. clxxxvi) that "charity merits increase,
and being increased merits to be perfected." Hence the increase of grace or charity falls under
merit.

I answer that, As stated above (AA. 6, 7), whatever the motion of grace reaches to, falls under
condign merit. Now the motion of a mover extends not merely to the last term of the movement,
but to the whole progress of the movement. But the term of the movement of grace is eternal
life; and progress in this movement is by the increase of charity or grace according to Prov.
4:18: "But the path of the just as a shining light, goeth forward and increaseth even to perfect
day," which is the day of glory. And thus the increase of grace falls under condign merit.

Reply Obj. 1: Reward is the term of merit. But there is a double term of movement, viz. the
last, and the intermediate, which is both beginning and term; and this term is the reward of
increase. Now the reward of human favor is as the last end to those who place their end in
it; hence such as these receive no other reward.

Reply Obj. 2: The increase of grace is not above the virtuality of the pre-existing grace,
although it is above its quantity, even as a tree is not above the virtuality of the seed,
although above its quantity.

Reply Obj. 3: By every meritorious act a man merits the increase of grace, equally with the
consummation of grace which is eternal life. But just as eternal life is not given at once,
but in its own time, so neither is grace increased at once, but in its own time, viz. when
a man is sufficiently disposed for the increase of grace.

NINTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 9]

Whether a Man May Merit Perseverance?

Objection 1: It would seem that anyone may merit perseverance. For what a man obtains by asking,
can come under the merit of anyone that is in grace. Now men obtain perseverance by asking
it of God; otherwise it would be useless to ask it of God in the petitions of the Lord's Prayer,
as Augustine says (De Dono Persev. ii). Therefore perseverance may come under the merit of
whoever has grace.

Obj. 2: Further, it is more not to be able to sin than not to sin. But not to be able to sin
comes under merit, for we merit eternal life, of which impeccability is an essential part.
Much more, therefore, may we merit not to sin, i.e. to persevere.

Obj. 3: Further, increase of grace is greater than perseverance in the grace we already possess.
But a man may merit an increase of grace, as was stated above (A. 8). Much more, therefore,
may he merit perseverance in the grace he has already.

On the contrary, What we merit, we obtain from God, unless it is hindered by sin. Now many
have meritorious works, who do not obtain perseverance; nor can it be urged that this takes
place because of the impediment of sin, since sin itself is opposed to perseverance; and thus
if anyone were to merit perseverance, God would not permit him to fall into sin. Hence perseverance
does not come under merit.

I answer that, Since man's free-will is naturally flexible towards good and evil, there are
two ways of obtaining from God perseverance in good: first, inasmuch as free-will is determined
to good by consummate grace, which will be in glory; secondly, on the part of the Divine motion,
which inclines man to good unto the end. Now as explained above (AA. 6, 7, 8), that which is
related as a term to the free-will's movement directed to God the mover, falls under human
merit; and not what is related to the aforesaid movement as principle. Hence it is clear that
the perseverance of glory which is the term of the aforesaid movement falls under merit; but
perseverance of the wayfarer does not fall under merit, since it depends solely on the Divine
motion, which is the principle of all merit. Now God freely bestows the good of perseverance,
on whomsoever He bestows it.

Reply Obj. 1: We impetrate in prayer things that we do not merit, since God hears sinners who
beseech the pardon of their sins, which they do not merit, as appears from Augustine [*Tract.
xliv in Joan.] on John 11:31, "Now we know that God doth not hear sinners," otherwise it would
have been useless for the publican to say: "O God, be merciful to me a sinner," Luke 18:13.
So too may we impetrate of God in prayer the grace of perseverance either for ourselves or
for others, although it does not fall under merit.

Reply Obj. 2: The perseverance which is in heaven is compared as term to the free-will's movement;
not so, the perseverance of the wayfarer, for the reason given in the body of the article.

In the same way may we answer the third objection which concerns the increase of grace, as
was explained above.

TENTH ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 114, Art. 10]

Whether Temporal Goods Fall Under Merit?

Objection 1: It would seem that temporal goods fall under merit. For what is promised to some
as a reward of justice, falls under merit. Now, temporal goods were promised in the Old Law
as the reward of justice, as appears from Deut. 28. Hence it seems that temporal goods fall
under merit.

Obj. 2: Further, that would seem to fall under merit, which God bestows on anyone for a service
done. But God sometimes bestows temporal goods on men for services done for Him. For it is
written (Ex. 1:21): "And because the midwives feared God, He built them houses"; on which a
gloss of Gregory (Moral. xviii, 4) says that "life everlasting might have been awarded them
as the fruit of their goodwill, but on account of their sin of falsehood they received an earthly
reward." And it is written (Ezech. 29:18): "The King of Babylon hath made his army to undergo
hard service against Tyre . . . and there hath been no reward given him," and further on: "And
it shall be wages for his army . . . I have given him the land of Egypt because he hath labored
for me." Therefore temporal goods fall under merit.

Obj. 3: Further, as good is to merit so is evil to demerit. But on account of the demerit of
sin some are punished by God with temporal punishments, as appears from the Sodomites, Gen.
19. Hence temporal goods fall under merit.

Obj. 4: On the contrary, What falls under merit does not come upon all alike. But temporal
goods regard the good and the wicked alike; according to Eccles.

