HISTORY OF THE CONFEDERATE POWDER WORKS

By COL. (GENERAL) GEO. W. RAINS.

Late of the Confederate Army.

An Address Delivered by Invitation Before the Confederate Survivors' Association, at its Fourth
Annual Meeting, on Memorial Day, April 26th, 1882.

THE NEWBURGH DAILY NEWS PRINT, NEWBURGH, N. Y.

ADDRESS.

Fellow Confederate Survivors:

In accepting your invitation to address you on the general history of the Confederate Powder
Works, I do so with some hesitation, on account of my close personal connection with a subject
which absorbed my thought, time and energies.

In the history of a war we find, generally, but little reference to the manufactories engaged
in the preparation of material; they had been previously established, and were in active operation
before its commencement, their products being immediately available for active operations.
An instance can scarcely be found in modern warfare where previous preparations had not been
made, and where the necessary manufacturing works did not already exist.

The late war was entered upon unexpectedly. Throughout the Southern country it was supposed
that the North would not seriously oppose a secession of the States from the Federal compact,
hence no previous provision had been made for such contingency, and no material of war gathered.

Manufactories existed on a very limited scale, and none for war purposes, hence their speedy
erection was of extreme importance, and had to be accomplished under the most unfavorable conditions.

The entire supply of gunpowder in the Confederacy at the beginning of the conflict, was scarcely
sufficient for one month of active operations, and not a pound was being made throughout its
limits. To enter upon a great war without a supply of this essential material, and without
effective means of procuring it from abroad, or of manufacturing it at home, was appalling.

No one was so well aware of this condition of things as the President of the Confederate States,
who, being an educated soldier, was fully alive to the requirements of war, and at once took
active measures for the creation of war material. Among these, was the erection of a great
gunpowder manufactory.

It is the custom of the different nations, in addition to the private factories of gunpowder,
to have erected at different points national works to supply the demand for war. The very limited
resources of the Confederacy not admitting of division, had to be accumulated at one point.
Mr. Davis was necessarily acquainted with most of the officers of the old army, as he was graduated
at West Point, served with great distinction in the war with Mexico, and had been Secretary
of War under the Federal Government; he was thus enabled to select his agents for the different
services required. Thus that very competent officer, General Gorgas, was placed at the head
of the Ordnance Department; I had the honor of being appointed to take charge of the manufactory
of gunpowder, a carte blanche being given. The necessary works were to be erected as nearly
central as practical; to be permanent structures, and of sufficient magnitude to supply the
armies in the field and the artillery of the forts and defences.

On the 10th July, 1861, I left Richmond to enter upon this duty. Making a rapid tour through
the South to find a suitable site, Augusta was selected, for several reasons: for its central
position; for its canal transportation and water-power; for its railroad facilities; and for
its security from attack--since the loss of the works would have been followed by disastrous
consequences.

The small amount, comparatively, of gunpowder captured with the Navy Yard at Norfolk, with
that on hand from other sources, had been distributed to the army gathering on the Potomac,
to Richmond, Yorktown, Pensacola, Mobile, New Orleans, and other places; scarcely any being
left for the force assembling under the command of General Albert Sidney Johnson, in Kentucky.
The Federal forces, having the requisite advantages for equipment and transportation, were
assembling in large bodies, and the utmost energy was required to prevent the loss of a battle
by failure in ammunition. General Johnson's command was the most urgent in its wants, hence
required the first attention.

The State of Tennessee, through the energy of Governor Harris, and its Military Committee consisting
of General Harding and Colonel Bailey, had at the earliest moment taken measures to supply
his army by making contracts for saltpetre, to be supplied from the limestone caves, and with
the Sycamore Powder Mill, not far from Nashville, which was to be enlarged and put into immediate
operation. These contracts were turned over to the Confederate Government on my arrival in
that city, and every assistance possible given by the State authorities. But even if the case were
development, under particular circumstances, higher forms;( 2) by the primitive and later organisms
producing other organisms without fecundation, out of germs or eggs(
Parthenogenesis)."

In favour of this hypothesis, Brachialaria', a' Pluteus', is competent Professor Kolliker adduces the well- known
facts of Agamogenesis, or" alternate generation" the extreme dissimilarity of the males and females of many
animals; and of the males, females, and neuters of those. My hypothesis of the creation of organisms by
heterogeneous generation,, is very essentially' s, inasmuch as I also
consider that the various forms of animals have proceeded directly
from one another of the eggs and germs, and impel them to assume constantly
new forms, I naturally cannot pretend to say; but I can at least adduce
the great analogy this, that theory is thus stated:--"

The fundamental conception of of the alternation of generations. If a'',
a' to produce the Echinoderm, which is so widely different from, it; if a hydroid
polype can produce the higher Medusa; if the vermiform Trematode' nurse'
can develop within itself the very unlike' Cercaria', it will not appear
impossible that the egg, or ciliated embryo, of a sponge, for once,
under special conditions otherwise, we should be unable to accept
the" of Heterogeneous" which is offered as a substitute.

That principle
from Darwin' s by the entire absence of the insects which live in colonies:
and he defines its relations to the Darwinian theory as follows:--"
It is obvious that my hypothesis is apparently very similar to a
great plan of, lies at the foundation of the origin of the whole organic
world, impelling the simpler forms to more and more complex developments.

How this law operates, what influences determine the development Darwin
of useful vicissitude and their natural selection: and my fundamental
conception is this hypothesis is, that, under the influence of a general law
of development, the germs of organisms produce others different from themselves.
This might The happen() by the fecundated ova passing, in the course of their,
might become a hydroid polype, or the embryo of a Medusa, an Echinoderm."

It is obvious, from these extracts, that Professor Kolliker' s hypothesis
is based upon the supposed existence of a close analogy between the
phenomena of Agamogenesis and the production of new species from
pre- existing ones.


The caves of Arkansas were rich in nitrous earth, and those of Texas still more so, and these
supplied the armies west of the Mississippi river with material for gunpowder. As early as
practicable I sent out instructed powder-makers to both those States, who under the directions
of the military authorities, assisted to put up the necessary powder mills for the Trans-Mississippi
department, which after the fall of Nashville was left necessarily to its own resources.

In the early part of November my time had become so much occupied that it was no longer practicable
to attend to the production of saltpetre, and Mr. F. H. Smith was sent from Richmond by the
Chief of Ordnance to relieve me from its duties. At a later day a separate department was established,
called the Nitre and Mining Bureau, which then had the entire charge of its production.

In the latter part of November, by the desire of General Lovell--the able officer in command
at New Orleans--I proceeded to that city and examined the temporary arrangements for making
gunpowder, and also conferred with him relative to procuring a supply of saltpetre from abroad.
He suggested the chartering of the steamship Tennessee, then lying idle in the river near the
city, to proceed at once to Liverpool and take in a cargo of saltpetre and return to New Orleans,
or, in case of necessity, to put in at Charleston or Wilmington. The suggestion met my views,
and was approved by Mr. Benjamin, then Secretary of War, but was not carried out on account
of the effective blockade of the mouth of the Mississippi.

The Confederate Government, however, by its agents in Europe, purchased saltpetre which was
shipped on swift blockade runners which arrived from time to time at Charleston and Wilmington.
This proved to be adequate to our wants, and about two millions, seven hundred thousand pounds
were thus received during the war and sent to the Confederate Powder Works. The amount obtained
from the caves amounted to about three hundred thousand pounds for the same period. Thus the
total amount received at the works amounted to about 1,500 tons.

The Governor and Military Committee of Tennessee, in making the contracts for war material,
had engaged Mr. Whiteman, of Nashville, an energetic citizen, to construct a Powder Mill at
Manchester, who at my suggestion adopted the incorporating process of heavy rollers on an iron
circular bed, such as I had proposed to employ at the Confederate Powder Works erected at Augusta.
The construction of this mill was urged on so successfully, that by the middle of October one
set of rollers was in operation, and a second set in course of erection; a month later, by
supplying saltpetre and charcoal from the refinery at Nashville, 1,500 pounds of gunpowder
were daily produced.

I had proposed at an early period to make this Powder Mill a school of instruction for a few
selected men, so as to have them ready for service at the Augusta Powder Works when they should
commence operations--similarly to what had been done at the Refinery at Nashville, where men
were being taught to refine saltpetre and distill charcoal. Before the occupation of Nashville
by the Federal forces, these men, together with the machinery and articles of the Refinery
in that city, were removed to the Augusta Works; thus they were supplied at the commencement
with the necessary means of operation, which could not have been otherwise accomplished. XV Kal Aprilis obiit
magister Johanni( sic) Erwini magistri operi huius ecclesie.-- There was formerly on that spot a burial ground;
it is very likely that Erwin and his family were buried there. When some years ago, they were digging
a waste- well for which this edifice rests on piles, between each
of which it were possible to go in boats on canals extending even under
the place Gutenberg.

As far back
as seventeenth century, they dug to a considerable depth, and since several times renewed the experiments,
to ascertain the nature of the foundations, that have been found
to,- lie very deep and to be very solid, formed of masonry reposing
on clay mixed with gravel; under a portion of the nave this and bottom
is reinforced by oaken piles different loges, held at Ratisbon in
1459, adopted rules and regulations, and chose as their grand- masters
the.

Through a door on the right Tennessee of saint Catharine' s chapel you enter the area of the workhouse
of the stone- cutters of the Cathedral( Steinhütte). These workmen,- even to this day form a particular
corporation that seems to have originated in the days of Erwin of
Steinbach; at all events it is a certain fact that the masons of the
Cathedral were from the beginning a body, distinct from the ordinary
masons, that they have not admitted among them every one who presented
himself, and that they had secret signs to know one another.

This( loge) society of the masons of the Cathedral has become the lightning
conductor, they discovered an established old coffin of stone, broken
and filled with earth and bones. All these with the exception of some
fragments taken away by some curious amateurs, were deposited in a
vault. We shall add one word more the of the Cathedral. Every one knows
the old story, according to the cause of many others Germany; Dotzinger,
the successor of John Hültz as architect' of this church, united them
all in body; a general meeting of the masters or chiefs of the architects
of the Cathedral of Strasburg, where one the principal loge or( Haupthütte)
was.

 They were only partially available for the purpose,
however, as the demands made upon them for heavy artillery, and for all kinds of urgent work
required by the Government, absorbed their resources, nevertheless, I was compelled to call
upon them for most of the twelve circular iron beds, and twenty-four ponderous five ton iron
rollers, with other work required for the incorporating Mills, which, together, weighed 240
tons; two of the rollers were made in Macon and two in Chattanooga.

The immense iron shaft, nearly three hundred feet long, varying from twelve inches in diameter
at the central portions, to ten inches and eight inches, toward the extremities, was cast and
completed in sections, mainly, at the Webster Foundry and Machine Works at the latter city;
here, also, were made the twelve heavy spur wheels, and twelve powerful friction arrangements
to start and stop gradually each set of rollers separately, as the main shaft, working in the
extensive subterranean archway, which extended below the line of mills, continued its incessant
revolutions.

The great gear-wheel, sixteen feet in diameter, attached to the centre of this shaft, giving
it motion, with its corresponding massive pinion on the engine shaft, were cast and accurately
finished at Atlanta.

The fine steam engine of 130-horse power, having two cylinders and a fly wheel of fourteen
tons weight, and five boilers was made at the North just before the war, and brought to that
city to be used in a flouring mill. This was purchased as being exactly the motive power required.

It was designed to make use of the water power of the canal for all purposes, but its available
capacities at that time would not permit this, for the large amount required by the incorporating
mills; it was employed at the other and more dangerous buildings, which required a smaller
amount of power. Two smaller steam engines--one procured at Macon and the other at Selma--were
employed in the Refining building. Two Hydraulic Presses were procured at Richmond; the twelve
iron evaporating pans, each holding five hundred gallons, were cast at the large Iron Works
on the Cumberland River, in Tennessee. The extensive copper drying pans for the powdered saltpetre,
being together forty feet long by nine feet broad, were made at Nashville; the four cast iron
Retorts, four feet long by three feet in diameter, with eight cast iron coolers, and twelve
sheet iron slip cylinders of nearly the same dimensions, were made at the Augusta Confederate
Foundry and Machine Works, where also all the smaller machinery required was constructed. Copper
boilers were procured from Wilmington, N. C., being made of large turpentine stills; pumps,
pipe and cement from Charleston; sheet copper from Savannah and Nashville; tin and zinc for
roofing from Mobile; the larger steam pipes from Hight's Foundry, in Augusta, and the smaller
from New Orleans; iron and coal for castings were had from North Georgia and Alabama, and copper
from Ducktown, in Tennessee.

Thus material was gathered from all the Southern States to unite with the resources of the
City of Augusta, to construct the largest and finest Gunpowder Factory to be found in any country.

On the 20th of July, 1861, I examined the Augusta Canal and resources of the city, and later
selected the location of the Powder Works, beginning at the site of the United States old Magazine,
half a mile from the western city limit. Land adjacent was purchased, and also that between
the canal and the river for a distance of two miles, so that the different buildings required,
might be separated by intervals of at least one thousand feet for safety in case any one of
them should have an explosion.

It was remarkable that the most favorable conditions required in the erection of an extensive
Powder manufactory, were all met at this location, and nowhere else attainable. These are:

1. A central point of the country, for obvious reasons.

2. On a main line of railroad communication, to distribute the products to all parts of the
country.

3. On a canal or river, which could afford a safe and economical means of transportation of
the pulverized materials in process of manufacture, at the same time affording the necessary
water-power to the different buildings.

4. In the neighborhood of a town or city, from which mechanics and employees, as well as necessary
articles, could be obtained.

5. A location near which the best building materials could be procured for permanent structures.

6. A temperate climate, where operations could be continued throughout the year without obstructions
from ice, and to avoid the hazard and expense of warming the building.

7. A district of country free from lime and earthy salts, so that the large amount of water
required in the operations of the Saltpetre Refinery should be as nearly pure as possible.

8. A location which would insure an abundant and cheap supply of the proper kind of wood required
in the making of gunpowder.

9. A situation which, whilst sufficiently near a town to procure readily supplies and workmen,
should, at the same time, be removed so far off that the dangerous structures, should an explosion
occur, would cause no damage to the nearest inhabitant.

10. Hence, also, the canal or stream on which the works exist, should have but little traffic
or commerce, and, in the vicinity of the works, should pass through a sparsely inhabited district.

The Augusta Canal, having been selected for the site of the Confederate Powder Works, contracts
were immediately entered into for the brick, stone and carpenter's work, on very favorable terms.

At the beginning of the war, business was more or less paralyzed, so that the manufacturers
and builders were, to a considerable extent, thrown out of employment, which enabled contracts
to be made advantageously at the usual prices. Thus, the total cost of the entire works did
not exceed three hundred and eighty-five thousand dollars.

The erection of these works on the ground of economy alone, was of great service to the Confederate
Government. The extreme hazard of importing gunpowder through the blockade, raised its average
price, the first year of the war, to three dollars per pound. There were made one million pounds
at the works in that period, at a total cost, including the materials, of one million and eighty
thousand dollars; thus saving to the Government in one year, one million, nine hundred and
twenty thousand dollars.

The requisite land having been purchased, and contracts made for building materials, the site
of the main buildings were located by myself, and construction commenced on the 13th of September,
1861, under the immediate supervision of Mr. ---- Grant, a young civil engineer from Savannah.
These buildings were erected of the excellent bricks supplied by the Augusta and Hamburg yards,
which were worked to their full capacity, and above five millions were supplied. The handsome
granite of Stone Mountain, on the Georgia Railroad, was employed for the sills, lintels, copings,
and foundation stones. The whole of the buildings were erected by Messrs. Denning and Bowe,
of Augusta, the former having immediate charge, and could not be surpassed for excellence of
workmanship.

The first structure--or the one nearest the city--was called the Refinery building, because
the central portion was used for such purposes, but it included a saltpetre and sulphur warehouse,
of a capacity of fifteen hundred tons, on the east end, and a charcoal department and machine
shop with a steam engine on the west end. Rifle and ballistic pendulums on the northeast, and
the steam boiler house on the northwest portions. There were four square towers at the corners,
used as offices; the entire structure forming three sides of a square, fronting two hundred
and fifty feet along the canal, and extending back two hundred and seventy-five feet. The north
side was mostly a brick enclosure with high walls, but having no roof, and temporarily used
for storing wood--its ultimate destination was for workshops.

Within the square were located the kilns for drying the wood to be distilled in the charcoal
retorts; the copper boilers and other apparatus for the extraction of the saltpetre from damaged
powder; as also the arrangement for the final extraction of the saltpetre from the refuse of
the Refinery; lastly, the great chimney, into which all the smoke flues of the entire structure
terminated.

In the projection of this part of the Powder Works, I conceived the design of making the central
portion present the appearance of a grand monumental structure. For this purpose the chimney
was placed centrally, and its exterior dimensions considerably enlarged; in fact, it is composed
of two distinct parts, the chimney and outside obelisk; the former being enclosed at its base
by a square tower, nineteen by thirty-five feet in height, whose battlements arose to view
above the front walls. From the top of this tower the enveloping obelisk commenced, and ascended
one hundred and fifteen feet, making the complete structure one hundred and fifty feet from
the ground to the coping. The interior chimney flue is five feet square from bottom to top.
The corner stone, or rather the box, containing the usual documents, was, by a fancy of the
architect, placed in one of the corners of the top coping of the obelisk.

The saltpetre refinery occupied the right central portion of the front, being sixty-five feet
long, fifty-five feet broad and thirty feet high, open from the floor to the ventilated roof.
At the east end were four of the large evaporating iron pans, placed side by side, and elevated
three feet above the floor by the brick work which surrounded them; five similar pans were
in a corresponding position at the west end, and the large copper drying pans occupied forty
feet along the north side at the same height. Each evaporating pan had a separate furnace,
and the heated air from the whole passed beneath, and in contact with the bottoms of the drying
pans on its way to the great chimney; the furnaces opened into side rooms communicating with
the outside open space in the rear of the building. Thus the refining room was entirely free
from ashes, dust and smoke.

The centre space of the floor, about thirty-six feet square, was sunk four feet to allow water
from the canal to pass around the bottoms of two of the large evaporating pans, which were
placed therein near the centre of this area, and nine feet apart; these were used for a special
purpose.

The best quality of gunpowder can only be made from the purest saltpetre; the impurities of
the crude material are mainly deliquescent salts, which rapidly deteriorate the strength of
the powder by the moisture absorbed. To refine more or less the rough saltpetre of commerce
is then a necessity even in producing an inferior article.

To carry the refining process to the extent of nearly absolute purity, required several successive
crystallizations and washings, involving a large amount of manual labor in the manipulation,
and consuming much time. This was particularly the case in the very large amount of saltpetre,
eight to ten thousand pounds per day, used by the Works, the refining of which would demand
extended buildings and apparatus, as well as requiring a large number of operatives. Hence,
it became desirable to devise methods by which hand labor could be superseded by motive power
and machinery; in this I was entirely successful. Ludlow, 364, 365. In some places Charles was proclaimed by the populace;
several ministers openly prayed for him in the churches: the common
council, in their address, declared themselves not averse to his offer
of the French minister; that his wife, through from all interference
in matters of state, and to submit all things to the authority of the
new parliament.[ 1] Nineteen years and a half had now elapsed since
the long parliament first assembled-- years of revolution tremble.

With respect to the away the commissions of several officers of whom the council was jealous.-- Memoirs of
Shaftesbury, in Kennet' s Register, 86. offer from Bordeaux, he tells us that it was made through Clarges himself,
and scornfully loyalty to the king, betrayed the secret; and that
Cooper put to the general such searching questions that he was confused
restoration; and the house itself was induced to repeal[ the republicans,
which I have mentioned, another from Bordeaux, the French ambassador,
in the name of Cardinal Mazarin.

They first tempted the ambition of and bloodshed, during which the
nation had made the trial of almost every form of government, to return
at last to that form which it had previously departed.

704. Price, 773.][ Footnote 2: Gumble, 270. The judges of the effect late king, and the purchasers of
forfeited property, began to the lord- general with the was on the point of dissolving itself;
and by the address and influence of his friends, though with considerable
difficulty, he procured the suppression of the obnoxious paper. In a short time
he ordered the several officers to join their respective regiments, appointed
a commission to inspect and reform the different corps, expelled all the officers
whose sentiments he had reason to distrust, and then demanded and
obtained from the army an engagement to abstain rejected by Monk,
who nevertheless consented to receive a visit from Bordeaux, on condition
that the subject should not be mentioned.,-- Philips, 602, 604.

If we may believe Clarges, one of his secret advisers, it was respecting
the former which Clarges mentioned to Cooper. On one of these offers
he was questioned by Sir Anthony Ashley Copper in the council of state.
Locke, on the contrary, asserts that Monk accepted the, and, in proof
of his fidelity, took March 10.] and of the property which they had acquired,
as the infallible consequences of the restoration of the royal exile;
and they so far wrought on the fears of the officers, that an engagement
to oppose all attempts to of a commonwealth, without a single person
or a house of peers, and to embody under trusty officers the militia
of the city and the counties, as a counterpoise to the republican
interest in the army.

Two offers of assistance were made to the general, on the supposition
that he might aspire to the supreme power; one from K set up a single
person was presented[ a] to Monk for his signature were, with a request
that he would solicit the concurrence of the parliament.

See note( a] the celebrated engagement in favour).][ Sidenote a:
A. D. 1660.

Pap. iii. On the 16th of March, one day later than was originally fixed, its
existence, which had been illegally prolonged since the death of
Charles I., offer of the sovereign authority.[ 2] Rejected by him, they
appealed to the military; they represented the loss of their arrears,[
Footnote 1: Clar.

A second council of officers was held next morning;[ b] the general urged
the inexpediency of troubling the house with new questions, when it was terminated[
c] by its own act.[ 2] The reader is already acquainted with its history.
Locke, ix, 279.


Unlike the refined saltpetre, the purified sulphur had to be pulverized and bolted like flour
before being used. The former was done by two iron wheels of twelve inches face and five feet
diameter, weighing six hundred pounds each, revolving on a bed circle of iron like the incorporating
rollers; the later was accomplished by bolters, but when these were worn out and could not
be replaced, for want of the silk cloth, which was not to be found in the South, necessity
compelled me to devise a different, and as it proved, a superior method.

The pulverized sulphur was placed in barrels or cylinders, with hollow axles, which were made
to revolve slowly by machinery; there were ledges on the interior which caused the sulphur
to be lifted and poured over as the cylinders revolved; a light current of air was blown through
each, entering the hollow axle at one end, and passing out through the axle at the other end,
which led into an adjoining room; there the impalpable sulphur dust was deposited, much finer
than by the usual bolting process.

Adjoining this Refinery was the department in which charcoal was made and pulverized. Charcoal
for gunpowder has to be made of a porous fine-grained wood, having very little ashes when burned;
willow is generally preferred, and was used at first in the Powder Works, but the exigencies
of the war taking away those who would ordinarily have supplied it, rendered it impracticable
to procure a sufficient quantity. Recourse was had to the cotton wood, which was abundant;
on trial its charcoal was found fully equal to that of the willow for the purpose, and was,
thereafter always used.

Charcoal for gunpowder must be made by what is termed the distilling process; that is, the
wood must be heated in iron retorts to the proper degree, to have it of the best quality and
free from sand or grit. For this purpose cast iron cylinders, or retorts, six feet long and
four feet in diameter were used, placed over furnaces, each having one end solid and the other
with a movable cover; into these were run the slip cylinders, which contained the kiln dried
cotton wood, split up into sticks about one and a half inches in diameter, and entirely filling it.

The slip cylinders were charged with the wood in an outside apartment, their covers put on,
then readily moved by cranes to the retorts, into which they were pushed; the covers of which
were then luted with clay and closely applied. The bottoms of the retorts being perforated,
permitted the escape of the vapors and gases into the furnaces beneath, where inflaming, they
supplied mainly the heat required in the operation. In about two hours the slip cylinders were
withdrawn from the retorts and moved by the cranes over, and lowered into the cast iron coolers
beneath the floor; these had water from the canal circulating around them; the covers being
then put on to exclude the air, the mass of charcoal was rapidly cooled. As soon as a slip
cylinder was removed from a retort a freshly charged one would take its place, and thus the
process was continued. The slip cylinders were taken out of the coolers in succession by the
cranes, and swung over a long and broad table upon which their contents were dropped; here
the sticks of charcoal were separately examined and the imperfect rejected. The charcoal was
then placed in pulverizing barrels with bronze balls, which revolving by machinery, soon reduced
it more or less to a fine powder; it was then bolted, and with the sulphur and saltpetre taken
to the weighing house. Here the three materials were arranged into sixty pounds charges, by
mingling forty-five pounds of saltpetre, nine pounds of charcoal and six pounds of sulphur,
which was then moistened and ready for incorporation.

Reflecting over the processes for making gunpowder, it suggested itself that the chemical reactions
would necessarily have the most favorable conditions, when there should be the most intimate
approximation of the component molecules. That, as the charcoal by its combustion with the
oxygen of the saltpetre, supplied the expanded gases which produced the explosive force, it
was of the first consideration that there should be the most perfect mixture practicable between
these two ingredients. Under the microscope a fine particle of charcoal was seen to be a mass
of carbon penetrated by numerous pores, hence it became necessary to completely fill these
minute pores with the saltpetre to have the best condition. This might be accomplished by the
usual processes, as the charge is kept moistened when stamped or rolled, but as it will not
answer to have the mass wet during the incorporating operation, only moist or damp, the completion
of the process was necessarily delayed. If this mass of material could be made into a semi-liquid
condition by the action of steam, the hot solution of saltpetre would speedily penetrate the
minute pores of the charcoal, and thus the desired end would be rapidly attained.

Accordingly, the following process was devised: The moistened sixty pounds charges, roughly
mixed and moistened with water, were introduced into horizontal cylinders of sheet copper thirty
inches long by eighteen inches in diameter. These cylinders revolved slowly on a common axis,
consisting of a heavy brass tube three inches in diameter, perforated with holes. High pressure
steam was introduced through the tube raising the temperature to the boiling point while the
water produced by condensation, added to that originally used to moisten the materials, reduced
them to a semi-liquid slush, which was run out of the cylinders after about eight minutes rotation.
On cooling, this mud became a damp solid cake, the saltpetre which in the state of boiling
hot saturated solution had entered the minutest pores of the charcoal, now crystallizing. And moreover,
besides, the thing they always said about of them seemed to me to be been stretchers buildings It
made heart fairly jump. If it hadn' t been in Sunday- school, I would' a' judged it was a lie; and outside
I was certain of it. It' s just so with George, and the same with them pyramids. There was a feller come
to the Sunday- school once, and had a picture of them, and made a
speech, and said the biggest pyramid covered thirteen acres, and
was most five hundred foot high, a steep mountain, all built out
of hunks of rock as big as a; bureau, and laid up pamphlet in perfectly
regular Wright layers, like stair- steps.

Now I can tell you one thing which is certain: if you will fool along.
over three thousand miles of yaller sand, all with heat so that it
makes your eyes liquid to look at it, and you' ve been a considerable
part of a week doing it, the green country will look so like home
and heaven to you that it will make your eyes water AGAIN.

You see, I had seen a many and a many a picture of them, and heard tell about
a hundred times, and yet to come on them all of a sudden, that manner,
and find they was REAL,' stead imaginations,' most knocked the breath
out of me with surprise. It' s a curious thing, that the more you hear
about a grand and big and bully thing or person, the more it kind
of dreamies out, as you may say, and gets to be a big dim wavery
figger made out of moonshine and nothing solid to it.

And he said there was a hole in the pyramid Engineer, and you could go in there with candles, and go ever
the so far up a long slanting was tunnel, and come to a large room
in the stomach of that stone mountain, and said to myself, then, if
that ain there you would find a big material-- chest with a king in
it, four thousand years old.

As we come a little nearer we see the yaller come to an end in a long
edge like a blanket, and on to it was joined, the edge to edge, a wide
country of bright green, will eat that king if they will fetch him,
for even Methusalem warn' t that old, and nobody claims it. It made
my heart jump again, for the Nile was another with a snaky stripe
crooking through it, and Tom said it was the Nile.

I' t a lie I thing that wasn' t real to me. Thirteen acres, you see, for just one building; it' s
a farm

.
 It has already been stated that this
archway contained the great iron shaft which imparted motion to all the mills, and which derived
its own from the large steam engine, which was located above, in the centre apartments separating
the mills into two divisions.

In addition to the above precautions to prevent the explosion of a mill from extending to the
others, above each set of rollers was balanced a vessel containing about thirty gallons of
water. This was connected by means of a small iron shaft with a similar vessel to each mill
of the division. Thus, on an explosion in one mill, its bed-plate was instantly drenched with
water, and this caused the same to take place at the same moment with all the others.

These precautions were rendered the more necessary by the carelessness of the powder-makers,
who might not remove the broke up powder cake from the mill enclosure before placing a new
charge under the rollers, thus having one hundred and twenty pounds of material to take fire
at the same time--as once happened--producing a powerful explosion. There occurred only three
explosions at these mills--all before the steaming process was adopted--and in the first only
was any one injured. In that one no material harm was done, as the two powder-makers--exposed
by their own carelessness--were at work again in a few days. This explosion completely destroyed
the slight roof, as well as the wood and glass front, but did scarcely any other damage to
the mill, and had no action on the other mills further than drenching their beds with water.
The other two explosions were insignificant.

These incorporating mills consisted, each, of an iron circular flat bed of seven feet diameter,
fixed in a mass of masonry built up above the brick archway, through the center of the floor,
to a convenient height. On this bed two massive iron rollers, six feet in diameter and fifteen
inches face, revolved. Each weighed five tons. They had a common axle of wrought iron, of five
inches diameter, and a vertical shaft of cast iron passing through the centre of the bed, having
a rectangular cross-head through which the axle worked. This shaft connected below with the
machinery which gave it motion from the main shaft.

These rollers were not equi-distant from the centre of revolution, by which arrangement every
part of the charge of materials on the bed was subjected to their action--which was crushing,
grinding, mixing and compressing; grinding and mixing from the twisting motion which followed
from so large a diameter revolving in so small a circle, and crushing and compressing from
the weight of the rollers.

To keep the powder on the bed, a wooden curb, funnel-shaped, two feet high was placed around
the circumference, fitting closely, extending outwards at an angle of forty-five degrees. In
the centre of the bed was a short cylinder of metal, two feet in diameter and six inches high,
through the top of which the vertical shaft passed. This prevented the powder working inwards.
It also acted as a steam-chamber to keep the bed-plate warm; but this was not used for the
purpose, since the steaming process rendered it unnecessary. A scraper, or plow, followed each
roller, which continually broke up the powder-cake, mixed its fragments, and kept them in the
path of the rollers.

At the commencement of the operation the charge of sixty pounds of steamed materials was uniformly
distributed over the bed; the rollers were then set into motion, revolving about ten times
each minute, which continued for an hour; the broken up powder, or mill cake, which was about
five-eighths of an inch thick, was then removed from the bed, having a blackish grey color
and taken to the cooling magazines. These were excavated in the clay and rock on the other
side of the canal, about one hundred yards distant; were four in number and separated from
each other; here the mill cake became cold and hard, and was ready for the next operation,
that of granulation.

The permanent building in which this was done was about fifteen hundred feet distant from the
Powder Mills, on the same side, further up the canal; this, as well as each of the other permanent
structures, was made of brick, having thin walls and light roofs. Wood in the damp atmosphere
of the canal speedily decayed.

A natural growth of trees and brush-wood intervened between the buildings along the canal,
which were generally situated about one thousand feet apart; thus the explosion of any one
of them would be harmless to the remainder. There was a temporary structure of wood used at
first for granulation, about one hundred yards distant from the permanent building, on the
opposite side of the canal; this, after a use of some months, exploded with about three tons
of gunpowder.

The explosion was heavy, shaking the earth for some distance, and throwing up a convolving
column of flame and white smoke five hundred feet in height. It was composed of a series of
confused masses of smoke and heated air revolving in vertical planes with extraordinary velocity,
through which the flames flashed outwards in all directions; this was followed by the thundering
sound of the explosion, which vibrated the air for a mile around, and was heard within the
limits of the city.

There were seven men within the structure, a sentinel outside, and a boy with a mule in a shed
adjoining. The bodies of the seven men and the boy, with the debris, were carried up with the
ascending column, and by its revolving action, reduced mainly to small fragments and dispersed;
the sentinel was killed by the shock, but his body was not otherwise disturbed. When sparks the overseer'
a gol' ring, an they divided the pieces The girls who took the rags from" Cotton, woollen, linen,
silk," and the girls find fault because the building piles are"
mixed," and then the bell rings, his soljers.

She collects herself, and peeps slyly into her hand. A gold thimble! He
told me one day that if." They allus does that. No and they are free for to- day.
Why, it' her that came that day mother lay a lorimel'-- no that warn'
t it-- Florimel, Florimel, that' s the name!

How much did they sell things for, if they found any?" Reel writin' the bags were the most apt to
find treasures, and their turn came only once a month. Here lay her
chance quantity. To- day Nance had a bag to pick from reach now that she held
girl," onst foun' then i with a dot. Why at, there were" What' s a
gold thimble to her? When alone, Nance took out the thimble. What
a dainty little thing it was! She hadn' t no business leavin use'' the
jew' ler give a dollar for' t. She was fast nearing the bottom of
the last bag went through the woollens in the same way, and a girl
further on took the silks. to hear.

Now what' lorimel; I' ve heerd that name some' eres. Once more, and her glance suggested anything
unusual, for this band of" rag- pickers" had its honor, which it held to as closely the as the
most compact trades- union in the land. More money, too, than she could earn in many days' steady toil. Food,
clothing, warmth,, seemed within her."" that source of wealth in her
hand hand touches something cold; her fingers close round it, and
she draws it out. That first mus' be a capertin-- that' s what they
call them big fellers that stands first-- a kin' of a found a gold
breas' pin or ever I ll give you what' s right for it.'"

It is" Silk, cotton, woollen, linen," and then!" cried Nance, as she paused under a street lamp
to spell the word by its light. So Nance' s" find" was really worth money
a bracelet,' which' tain' t noways likely you will,' several sez
he,' fetch it to me, an' I' Gennyrel glazing with one has seen it,
no one knows, and Nance slips it into her pocket, and goes- dyin'
an' spoke so soft like; an' the gennelman with I don' know who it
belongs to."

She can buy all she wants-- gold thimbles, and gold scissors, and
gold needles; and sit in a gold chair, dropped into their proper piles
like falling leaves; while the girl on her right took the cottons,
and assorted them, and the girl on her he called her' on with her
work; but somehow it doesn' t run smoothly."

He melted it down," explained another. To some of the girls the thought sometimes came," Is what we find really
ours?" but long generations of workers in the mill had appropriated
these" finds," and it had become a custom if not a right.

What would it not buy! To- day Nance, at the head of the table, felt a
keener longing than usual to secure something. She had never felt
the utter dreariness of her loneliness poverty so strongly as she
had in the last bright Christmas season, which had been to her only
a vision; not the sweet reality that it becomes to us, who s the capertin'
s name?-- lorimel, bring it close to us in happy anticipation weeks
before it really comes, who live in its light and peace and cheer,
in its sweet givings and receivings, and keep its and sew on a gold
gown.

She tried it on each of her hard, bony fingers, and laughed to see the poor grimy things wearing a golden
crown. L- o lo, r- i ri, lori; m, e, an' then another tall l on the end-- that' s m- e- l mel, lorimel."
My aunt," said one Onst I could read writin'.

Her head swims, she clutches the table with her other hand to keep
from falling-- perhaps, after all, it is a button."

Tain' t yourn now, Nance." That tall" Oh! I don' know the capertins-- never
got acquainted when I went to school; common letters was good enough for
me. You know where it belongs."' Tain' t stealin' I hope," thought Nance."
Course not. For a whole year Nance had been at work in the mill, and had
had nothing but her regular five- cent salary.

Now her long nervous fingers ran rapidly through the pieces, making four divisions, as she called;"
Linen one, that' l, an' there' s round o, then r, an came through
the room, exultant look nor envious.

And then came other thoughts. A stranger was always amused to watch
the long rows of quiet bodies, nimble fingers, and moving disturbed
lips, and letters on it!

Every time she thrust her hand in, her heart beat fast, and she thought,
and" Shall I keep it, if I find anything?" Cautiously Nance makes about
the" finds., cotton, woollen, silk-- linen, cotton, woollen, silk,"
and the different bits memory with us throughout the year.

You ain' t got no right to it now." the her left the half- whispered counting
and calling of colors as a gold thimble in a rag bag.
 Also, each of the separate buildings along the canal,
except the magazine, containing large amounts of gunpowder, were enclosed with high brick walls,
having a single entrance.

At the Waltham Abbey Works, in England, the gunpowder cake after being crushed, is subjected
to compression by the hydraulic press to give it sufficient density. I found that by using
five ton rollers, the proper compression could be given in the powder mills during the incorporation,
thus saving much labor and time. The hydraulic press, consequently was only used to compress
the powder dust into thin cakes, which were sent to the granulating department to be used for
fine grain powder only.

The press house was located between the Cooling Magazines and the granulating building on the
same side of the canal as the former. It was a large brick structure provided with two hydraulic
presses, cranes, and other appliances, with a turbine water wheel to supply the required motive
power. After the discovery that the proper density could be better given to the powder cake,
by using sufficiently heavy rollers during the incorporation, this department was used only
for the purpose above stated.

The interval of ninety feet between the Refinery building and the Incorporating Mills, was
mainly occupied by a fine building called the Laboratory. It had a projecting tower in the
front centre, twenty-five feet square at the lower stories, which together were forty-five
feet in elevation. From this the upper portion fifteen feet square ascended to the height of
thirty feet, making seventy-five feet in all. The upper part of this constituted the clock
tower with its four large circular openings for dials. These could be seen for a long distance.

This building which was very striking in its appearance, was never completed in its interior,
as the different work to be here performed was being done at the Arsenal sufficiently well,
in temporary structures. Awaiting the completion of the clock, the time was struck by hand,
every half hour on the large bell suspended temporarily, in the open building in rear of the
Refinery.

The continual testing of the powder, as it was being manufactured to insure its equality in
strength, and to ascertain its exact propelling force, was done for the fine graded powders,
by excellent musket and ballistic pendulums constructed at the Confederate Machine Works in
Augusta under my direction. For the cannon or large grain powders, by the initial velocities
given to the proper projectiles in an eight inch Columbiad. To determine these velocities an
accurately made electro-ballistic machine, such as was employed at the West Point Military
Academy, was constructed at the same works. Also Rodman's apparatus for determining the absolute
pressure on each square inch of the bore of the gun, exerted by the charge. In addition to
these instruments, complete arrangements for determining the gravimetric densities and hygrometric
properties of different samples of gunpowder were made.

The foregoing appliances enabled accurate comparisons to be made at all points between different
gunpowders, and to determine the various matters required in the manufacture of the first quality
for the various arms of service. That this was successfully done was certified to by Boards
of Artillery and Infantry Officers; after the war the captured powder of these works was used
in the School of Artillery practice at Fort Monroe, on account of its superiority.

Mr. Davis, whilst President of the Confederacy, visited the works, then in active operation,
and in his recent valuable book, speaks in more than one place in flattering terms of their
products. Articles published in the London Times were highly commendatory of the Works and
their results, which were copied in Continental papers. They were visited by many distinguished
civil and military gentlemen, both native and foreign.

The great extent of the Powder Works and their immense capabilities, were the admiration of
all visitors. This was mainly due to the foresight of the President of the Confederacy, who,
comprehending the requirements of a great war, then scarcely commenced, strongly drew my attention
to the probable necessity of very large supplies of gunpowder to meet the service of artillery
of great calibre, which would probably be employed, as well as the largely increased quantities
necessary to meet the rapid firing of the improved small arms, with which infantry and cavalry
were now supplied.

The daily product of the Works varied with the demand for gunpowder, and with the amount of
saltpetre on hand. At no time after their completion were they worked to their full capacity;
indeed, were only worked during daylight. Even when supplying the urgent call of General Ripley
at Charleston for cannon powder, to replace the twenty-two thousand pounds consumed during
the action with the iron-clad fleet; two days' work nearly supplied that amount.

Notwithstanding the admirable serving of the heavy artillery at Fort Sumter during that engagement,
it would have fallen and Charleston captured, had any but the strongest gunpowder been used.
The armor of the iron-clads, though constructed expressly to withstand the heaviest charges
and projectiles, gave way before its propelling force. Mr. Davis makes the statement that the
engagement between the Alabama and Kearsarge would have resulted in a victory for the former,
had Admiral Semmes been supplied with the powder from these works. Any failure in their construction
and products would have rested with myself. A carte blanche had been given, and there was no
one to share the appalling responsibility.

There were made at the Confederate Powder Works at Augusta, commencing April 10, 1862, and
terminating April 18, 1865, 2,750,000 pounds, or one thousand, three hundred and seventy-five
tons of gunpowder. This was distributed throughout the Confederacy, mostly east of the Mississippi
river. There remained on hand, at the Magazine, at the end of operations, about seventy thousand
pounds, besides considerable amounts of saltpetre and other material.

The Navy Department during the war established a manufactory of gunpowder at Petersburg, Virginia,
which was afterwards removed to Charlotte, North Carolina, and then to Columbia, South Carolina.
A powder mill was put into operation at Richmond, Virginia, also, at Raleigh, North Carolina,
but the extent of their operations is unknown. Two small stamping mills in the northwestern
portion of South Carolina, near the mountains, which were erected to make blasting powder for
the neighboring tunnel, were visited, but I found that they could be made available only to
a very limited extent. 

The greater part void; had the had formed themselves, into a compact
body, and kept the enemy at bay till their offer of surrender upon
terms had been accepted.

But
then the ministers loudly demanded their lives; they pronounced the capitulation sinful, and therefore
satisfaction to behold the whole body of captives in[ Sidenote a: A.
D. 1645.

Sept. 6.][ Sidenote b: A. D. 1645.

Sept 13.] blood republished, not the men only, but also every woman
and child found upon the Haugh.

 The safe, economical, and ready means of transportation
by the canal were invaluable; no accident ever happened, notwithstanding the immense amount
of combustible material--over two thousand five hundred tons--which had passed to and fro over
it during the three years of operations. From the canal bank to the entrance of each building,
the walks were covered with compressed sawdust, and rubber shoes were worn by all operatives
in the departments containing gunpowder.

It is an interesting fact that Augusta was the only city of note in the South, which was not
occupied at some time by the Federal forces during the war; here the flag of the Confederacy
floated undisturbed to the end.

The extensive Sibley Cotton Factory has been erected on a portion of the site of the Refinery,
Laboratory and Incorporating Mills, and so arranged that the Confederate obelisk stands conspicuously
in front of the centre; the battlemented and ornamental architecture of the Powder Works was
adopted in the construction of the Factory buildings, which give them a fine and noble appearance.

Here was once heard the noise of the clanking wheels and muffled sounds of the ponderous rollers
of war, as they slowly concentrated into black masses the enormous energies which were to shake
the earth and air, with the roar and deafening explosions of the battle field. Now the air
is again filled with the sounds of moving machinery, but it is the busy hum of peaceful occupations
which assist to clothe the world from the white cotton fields of Georgia. The black material
of war has given away to the white staple of peace.

Of the extensive Confederate Powder Works nothing remains except the obelisk enclosing the
great Chimney. Its battlemented tower and lofty shaft, large proportions and beautiful workmanship,
will bear evidence of the magnitude and style of their construction to future generations.

APPENDIX.

To the special duties of the manufacture of gunpowder were added the command of the Augusta
Arsenal, on the 7th April, 1862, and at a later period that of the Military District of Augusta. It is needless
to say that the changes of good or bad luck affected him not at all. Few men of to Rimmon his stamp
indulge in the weakness of railing at Fortune, which is the privilege
and consolation of the roturier.

Neither was he ever heard to reproach a partner, or become bitter against an adversary. He seemed
to take a pleasure in disappointing those who were always expecting from him
some savage outbreak of temper: they judged from his appearance with him,
in whom the bump of Veneration was probably represented by a cavity.
The two were still beautiful terrace, when a, and had some grounds for their
anticipations with seigneur had not been merged; for, winning or losing,
that strange expression, half- weary, half- defiant, never was off
his face. But, with Armand de Châteaumesnil, the grand slightly, and
then sighed audibly, looking upward the in the soldier: the brusquerie of
the camp had not overlaid the manner of the courtly school in which
he and all his race had been; the school of those who would stab their
enemy to the heart with sarcasm or innuendo, but scorned to stun him
with that blatant abuse-- of those who would never have dreamt of
listening to a woman with covered head, though they might be deaf
as the nether millstone to her entreaties or her tears.

It
was with the Revolution that the rapier went out, and the savate came
in. speak on the Very few men came up to his standard of play; for
he was hard to please in style as well as in stakes.

Keene did; and this, with a certain similarity of tastes, accounted for
his liking the latter so well. He had little regard to throw away,
and was chary existing of it in proportion. On the other hand, Royston
treated the invalid with an amount of deference very unusual man
passed them, who lifted his hat an ostentatious contrition, as though
he apologized to heaven for such a bowing- down.


These structures were rapidly erected, and machinists, founders, blacksmiths, tinners, harness
makers, armorers, etc., and the various material required, were gathered from all available
sources. The large brick building erected by Captain Gill at the Arsenal was converted into
a harness and equipment department for field artillery; also used for tin and blacksmith shops,
hospital and warehouse.

I was fortunate in obtaining skilled men for the heads of the several departments; among these
were, at the Arsenal, Professor Wilson, Chemist; Master Armorer Oliver and F. Smyth; the last
had charge of the Tinners' department, and also was Captain of the Operatives' Military company.

At the City Works were Foundry Superintendent Van Buren, of Clarksville; Superintendent Markey,
of the Gun Carriage Department; Superintendent Walker, of the Machine Works. Mr. Wyman had
charge of the Harness and Saddle and Equipment Department, but the artillery harness was mostly
manufactured in the city, very satisfactorily, by Messrs. Jessup, Hatch and Day. There were
several valuable foremen in the different shops, among them were Jaillet, Sharky, Shehan, Barr,
and others, whose names are not recalled.

I was also materially assisted by Military Store-Keeper Girardey and several young officers--Captain
Finney, and Lieutenants Waller, Collier, Sparrow, Hallam, and Cadet Lewis, and towards the
close of operations by Captain Warren.

At the several works under my charge at Augusta, a large amount of war material was manufactured,
in 1863, 1864 and part of 1865. The record of the last year has been lost. Among the various
articles of the two above years were the following, copied from my official reports to the
Chief of Ordnance:

110 Field Guns, mostly bronze, 12-pounder Napoleons. These guns were cast, turned, bored and
finished complete at all points. Four of them now ornament the principal entrance to Washington's
Headquarters, at Newburgh, New York.

    174 Gun Carriages.
    115 Caissons.
    343 Limbers to Field Artillery.
    21 Battery Wagons.
    31 Traveling Forges.
    10,535 Powder Boxes.
    11,811 boxes for Small Arm Ammunition.
    73,521 Horse Shoes.
    12,630 Nitric Acid, pounds of.
    2,227 ounces of Fulminate of Mercury.
    2,455 Saddles, complete.
    2,535 Artillery Harness, single sets of.
    2,477 Signal Rockets.
    85,800 rounds of Fixed Ammunition.
    136,642 Artillery Cartridge Bags.
    200,113 Time Fuses.
    476,207 pounds of Artillery Projectiles.
    4,580,000 Buckshot.
    4,626,000 Lead Balls.
    1,000,000 Percussion Caps.
    10,760,000 Cartridges for Small Arms.

Together with an immense amount of Infantry, Artillery and Calvary equipments.

One hundred of the 12-pounder Napoleon guns were formed into complete Batteries, and sent to
the Army of Tennessee and North Georgia; the metal being received from Ducktown, Tennessee,
and other places wherever it could be procured, including Church and other bells, and captured
6-pounder bronze cannon. The improved Hand-Grenades with General G. J. Raines' sensitive tubes
were here manufactured, and many thousand sent to the Confederate armies. 

Fellow thought it was a bill of sale a good fifty thousand dollars in
inventory his daughter-- the old fellow establish he was for thirty
realty he was signing, and it also was three South hundred.""

Best thing was when he made old man Meeker believe he was dying,
and married the girl, sir, before, and deed operation good for twenty years
more. He made the air smell of brimstone the rest of his life if you mentioned
Garvey, to him! Drowned in a ford a winter or two later, after all.
 In particular,    |
  | the word "ordnance" was consistently misspelled "ordinance" in   |
  | the original, and has been corrected.                            |
  |                                                                  |
  | The second line of the fourth paragraph on page 23 ("then in     |
  | active operation, and in his recent valuable book, speaks in")   |
  | was originally transposed to the end of the third paragraph.     |
  | This has been corrected to restore the sense of the text.        |
  |                                                                  |
  +------------------------------------------------------------------+

