Much of this, which all the world now knows, I learned afterwards. At the moment I could think
of little save the king's kindness; to which he added by insisting that I should sit on the
bed while we talked. 'You wonder, M. de Marsac,' he said, 'what brings me here, and why I have
come to you instead of sending for you? Still more, perhaps, why I have come to you at night
and with such precautions? I will tell you. But first, that my coming may not fill you with
false hopes, let me say frankly, that though I may relieve your present necessities, whether
you fall into the plan I am going to mention, or not, I cannot take you into my service; wherein,
indeed, every post is doubly filled. Du Mornay mentioned your name to me, but in fairness to
others I had to answer that I could do nothing.'

I am bound to confess that this strange exordium dashed hopes which had already risen to a
high pitch. Recovering myself as quickly as possible, however, I murmured that the honour of
a visit from the King of Navarre was sufficient happiness for me.

'Nay, but that honour I must take from you' he replied, smiling; 'though I see that you would
make an excellent courtier--far better than Du Mornay here, who never in his life made so pretty
a speech. For I must lay my commands on you to keep this visit a secret, M. de Marsac. Should
but the slightest whisper of it get abroad, your usefulness, as far as I am concerned, would
be gone, and gone for good!'

So remarkable a statement filled me with wonder I could scarcely disguise. It was with difficulty
I found words to assure the king that his commands should be faithfully obeyed.

'Of that I am sure,' he answered with the utmost kindness. 'Where I not, and sure, too, from
what I am told of your gallantry when my cousin took Brouage, that you are a man of deeds rather
than words, I should not be here with the proposition I am going to lay before you. It is this.
I can give you no hope of public employment, M. de Marsac, but I can offer you an adventure
if adventures be to your taste--as dangerous and as thankless as any Amadis ever undertook.'

'As thankless, sire?' I stammered, doubting if I had heard aright, the expression was so strange.

'As thankless,' he answered, his keen eyes seeming to read my soul. Whether these methods of employing
cheap oxygen would be successful or not, I do not wish to discuss at the present time, but there
is no doubt but that cheap oxygen would be an enormous boon to the gas manager, as by mixing 0.8
per cent. of oxygen with his coal gas before purification, he could not only utilize the method
so successfully introduced by Mr. Valon at Ramsgate, but could also
increase the illuminating value of his gas.

In speaking of the structure of flame, I pointed out that close to
the burner from which the gas giving the flame is issuing, a space
exists in which no combustion is going on--in other words, a flame
is never in contact with the rim of the burner.

 'Will you undertake the adventure, or would
you hear more before you make up your mind?'

I hesitated. Had I been a younger man by ten years I should doubtless have cried assent there
and then, having been all my life ready enough to embark on such enterprises as offered a chance
of distinction. But something in the strangeness of the king's preface, although I had it in
my heart to die for him, gave me check, and I answered, with an air of great humility, 'You
will think me but a poor courtier now, sire, yet he is a fool who jumps into a ditch without
measuring the depth. I would fain, if I may say it without disrespect, hear all that you can
tell me.'

'Then I fear,' he answered quickly, 'if you would have more light on the matter, my friend,
you must get another candle.'

I started, he spoke so abruptly; but perceiving that the candle had indeed burned down to the
socket, I rose, with many apologies, and fetched another from the cupboard. It did not occur
to me at the moment, though it did later, that the king had purposely sought this opportunity
of consulting with his companion. I merely remarked, when I returned to my place on the bed,
that they were sitting a little nearer one another, and that the king eyed me before he spoke--though
he still swung one foot carelessly in the air with close attention.

'I speak to you, of course, sir,' he presently went on, 'in confidence, believing you to be
an honourable as well as a brave man. That which I wish you to do is briefly, and in a word,
to carry off a lady. Nay,' he added quickly, with a laughing grimace, 'have no fear! She is
no sweetheart of mine, nor should I go to my grave friend here did I need assistance of that
kind. Henry of Bourbon, I pray God, will always be able to free his own lady-love. This is
a State affair, and a matter of quite another character, though we cannot at present entrust
you with the meaning of it.'

I bowed in silence, feeling somewhat chilled and perplexed, as who would not, having such an
invitation before him? I had anticipated an affair with men only--a secret assault or a petard
expedition. But seeing the bareness of my room, and the honour the king was doing me, I felt
I had no choice, and I answered, 'That being the case, sire, I am wholly at your service.'

'That is well,' he, answered briskly, though methought he looked at Du Mornay reproachfully,
as doubting his commendation of me. 'But will you say the same,' he continued, removing his
eyes to me, and speaking slowly, as though he would try me, 'when I tell you that the lady
to be carried off is the ward of the Vicomte de Turenne, whose arm is well-nigh as long as
my own, and who would fain make it longer; who never travels, as he told me yesterday, with
less than fifty gentlemen, and has a thousand arquebusiers in his pay? Is the adventure still
to your liking, M. de Marsac, now that you know that?'

'It is more to my liking, sire,' I answered stoutly.

'Understand this too,' he rejoined. 'It is essential that this lady, who is at present confined
in the Vicomte's house at Chize, should be released; but it is equally essential that there
should be no breach between the Vicomte and myself. Therefore the affair must be the work of
an independent man, who has never been in my service, nor in any way connected with me. If
captured, you pay the penalty without recourse to me.'

'I fully understand, sire,' I answered.

'Ventre Saint Gris!' he cried, breaking into a low laugh. I swear the man is more afraid of
the lady than he is of the Vicomte! That is not the way of most of our Court.'

Du Mornay, who had been sitting nursing his knee in silence, pursed up his lips, though it
was easy to see that he was well content with the king's approbation. He now intervened. 'With
your permission, sire,' he said, 'I will let this gentleman know the details.'

'Do, my friend,' the king answered. 'And be short, for if we are here much longer I shall be
missed, and in a twinkling the Court will have found me a new mistress.'

He spoke in jest and with a laugh, but I saw Du Mornay start at the words, as though they were
little to his liking; and I learned afterwards that the Court was really much exercised at
this time with the question who would be the next favourite, the king's passion for the Countess
de la Guiche being evidently on the wane, and that which he presently evinced for Madame de
Guercheville being as yet a matter of conjecture.

Du Mornay took no overt notice of the king's words, however, but proceeded to give me my directions.
'Chize, which you know by name,' he said, 'is six leagues from here. Mademoiselle de la Vire
is confined in the north-west room, on the first-floor, overlooking the park. More I cannot
tell you, except that her woman's name is Fanchette, and that she is to be trusted. The house
is well guarded, and you will need four or five men, There are plenty of cut-throats to be
hired, only see, M. de Marsac, that they are such as you can manage, and that Mademoiselle
takes no hurt among them. Have horses in waiting, and the moment; you have released the lady
ride north with her as fast as her strength will permit. Indeed, you must not spare her, if
Turenne be on your heels. You should be across the Loire in sixty hours after leaving Chize.'

'Across the Loire?' I exclaimed in astonishment.

'Yes, sir, across the Loire,' he replied, with some sternness. 'Your task, be good enough to
understand, is to convoy Mademoiselle de la Vire with all speed to Blois. There, attracting
as little notice as may be, you will inquire for the Baron de Rosny at the Bleeding Heart,
in the Rue de St. Denys. He will take charge of the lady, or direct you how to dispose of her,
and your task will then be accomplished. You follow me?'

'Perfectly,' I answered, speaking in my turn with some dryness. 'But Mademoiselle I understand
is young. What if she will not accompany me, a stranger, entering her room at night, and by
the window?'

'That has been thought of' was the answer. He turned to the King of Navarre, who, after a moment's
search, produced a small object from his pouch. This he gave to his companion, and the latter
transferred it to me. I took it with curiosity. It was the half of a gold carolus, the broken
edge of the coin being rough and jagged. 'Show that to Mademoiselle, my friend,' Du Mornay
continued, 'and she will accompany you. She has the other half.'

'But be careful,' Henry added eagerly, 'to make no mention, even to her, of the King of Navarre.
You mark me, M. de Marsac! If you have at any time occasion to speak of me, you may have the
honour of calling me YOUR FRIEND, and referring to me always in the same manner.'

This he said with so gracious an air that I was charmed, and thought myself happy indeed to
be addressed in this wise by a prince whose name was already so glorious. Nor was my satisfaction
diminished when his companion drew out a bag containing, as he told me, three hundred crowns
in gold, and placed it in my hands, bidding me defray therefrom the cost of the journey. In the
first place, a sensible diminution in light takes place when a metal burner is employed, and the
larger the surface and thickness of the metal the worse will be its action on the illuminating
power of the flame; but this cooling action is only influencing the bottom of the flame, so that
with a small flame the total effect is very great, and with a very
large flame almost nil.

The first point, therefore, to attend to is that the burner shall
be made of a good non-conductor. But, after all, of little
avail without this.' He lifted my sword from the table as he spoke, and weighed it in his hand.
'A pretty tool,' he continued, turning suddenly and looking me very closely in the face. 'A
very pretty tool. Were I in your place, M. de Marsac, I would see that it hung loose in the
scabbard. Ay, and more, man, use it!' he added, sinking his voice and sticking out his chin,
while his grey eyes, looking ever closer into mine, seemed to grow cold and hard as steel.
'Use it to the last, for if you fall into Turenne's hands, God help you! I cannot!'

'If I am taken, sire,' I answered, trembling, but not with fear, 'my fate be on my own head.'

I saw the king's eyes soften, at that, and his face change so swiftly that I scarce knew him
for the same man. He let the weapon drop with a clash on the table. 'Ventre Saint Gris!' he
exclaimed with a strange thrill of yearning in his tone. 'I swear by God, I would I were in
your shoes, sir. To strike a blow or two with no care what came of it. To take the road with
a good horse and a good sword, and see what fortune would send. To be rid of all this statecraft
and protocolling, and never to issue another declaration in this world, but just to be for
once a Gentleman of France, with all to win and nothing to lose save the love of my lady! Ah!
Mornay, would it not be sweet to leave all this fret and fume, and ride away to the green woods
by Coarraze?'

'Certainly, if you prefer them to the Louvre, sire,' Du Mornay answered drily; while I stood,
silent and amazed, before this strange man, who could so suddenly change from grave to gay,
and one moment spoke so sagely, and the next like any wild lad in his teens. 'Certainly,' he
answered, 'if that be your choice, sire; and if you think that even there the Duke of Guise
will leave you in peace. Turenne, I am sure, will be glad to hear of your decision. Doubtless
he will be elected Protector of the Churches. Nay, sire, for shame!' Du Mornay continued almost
with sternness. 'Would you leave France, which at odd times I have heard you say you loved,
to shift for herself? Would you deprive her of the only man who does love her for her own sake?'

'Well, well, but she is such a fickle sweetheart, my friend,' the king answered, laughing,
the side glance of his eye on me. 'Never was one so coy or so hard to clip! And, besides, has
not the Pope divorced us?'

'The Pope! A fig for the Pope!' Du Mornay rejoined with impatient heat. 'What has he to do
with France? An impertinent meddler, and an Italian to boot! I would he and all the brood of
them were sunk a hundred fathoms deep in the sea. But, meantime, I would send him a text to
digest.'

'EXEMPLUM?' said the king.

'Whom God has joined together let no man put asunder.'

'Amen! quoth Henry softly. 'And France is a fair and comely bride.'

After that he kept such a silence, falling as it seemed to me into a brown study, that he went
away without so much as bidding me farewell, or being conscious, as far as I could tell, of
my presence. Du Mornay exchanged a few words with me, to assure himself that I understood what
I had to do, and then, with many kind expressions, which I did not fail to treasure up and
con over in the times that were coming, hastened downstairs after his master.

My joy when I found myself alone may be conceived. Yet was it no ecstasy, but a sober exhilaration;
such as stirred my pulses indeed, and bade me once more face the world with a firm eye and
an assured brow, but was far from holding out before me a troubadour's palace or any dazzling
prospect. The longer I dwelt on the interview, the more clearly I saw the truth. As the glamour
which Henry's presence and singular kindness had cast over me began to lose some of its power,
I recognised more and more surely why he had come to me. It was not out of any special favour
for one whom he knew by report only, if at all by name; but because he had need of a man poor,
and therefore reckless, middle-aged (of which comes discretion), obscure--therefore a safe
instrument; to crown all, a gentleman, seeing that both a secret and a women were in question.

Withal I wondered too. Looking from the bag of money on the table to the broken coin in my
hand, I scarcely knew which to admire more: the confidence which entrusted the one to a man
broken and beggared, or the courage of the gentlewoman who should accompany me on the faith
of the other.

CHAPTER III. BOOT AND SADDLE.

