     How has New England's romance fled,
     Even as a vision of the morning!
     Its rites foredone, its guardians dead,
     Its priestesses, bereft of dread,
     Waking the veriest urchin's scorning!
     Gone like the Indian wizard's yell
     And fire-dance round the magic rock,
     Forgotten like the Druid's spell
     At moonrise by his holy oak!
     No more along the shadowy glen
     Glide the dim ghosts of murdered men;
     No more the unquiet churchyard dead
     Glimpse upward from their turfy bed,
     Startling the traveller, late and lone;
     As, on some night of starless weather,
     They silently commune together,
     Each sitting on his own head-stone
     The roofless house, decayed, deserted,
     Its living tenants all departed,
     No longer rings with midnight revel
     Of witch, or ghost, or goblin evil;
     No pale blue flame sends out its flashes
     Through creviced roof and shattered sashes!
     The witch-grass round the hazel spring
     May sharply to the night-air sing,
     But there no more shall withered hags
     Refresh at ease their broomstick nags,
     Or taste those hazel-shadowed waters
     As beverage meet for Satan's daughters;
     No more their mimic tones be heard,
     The mew of cat, the chirp of bird,
     Shrill blending with the hoarser laughter
     Of the fell demon following after!
     The cautious goodman nails no more
     A horseshoe on his outer door,
     Lest some unseemly hag should fit
     To his own mouth her bridle-bit;
     The goodwife's churn no more refuses
     Its wonted culinary uses
     Until, with heated needle burned,
     The witch has to her place returned!
     Our witches are no longer old
     And wrinkled beldames, Satan-sold,
     But young and gay and laughing creatures,
     With the heart's sunshine on their features;
     Their sorcery--the light which dances
     Where the raised lid unveils its glances;
     Or that low-breathed and gentle tone,
     The music of Love's twilight hours,
     Soft, dream-like, as a fairy's moan
     Above her nightly closing flowers,
     Sweeter than that which sighed of yore
     Along the charmed Ausonian shore!
     Even she, our own weird heroine,
     Sole Pythoness of ancient Lynn,'
     Sleeps calmly where the living laid her;
     And the wide realm of sorcery,
     Left by its latest mistress free,
     Hath found no gray and skilled invader.
     So--perished Albion's "glammarye,"
     With him in Melrose Abbey sleeping,
     His charmed torch beside his knee,
     That even the dead himself might see
     The magic scroll within his keeping.
     And now our modern Yankee sees
     Nor omens, spells, nor mysteries;
     And naught above, below, around,
     Of life or death, of sight or sound,
     Whate'er its nature, form, or look,
     Excites his terror or surprise,
     All seeming to his knowing eyes
     Familiar as his "catechise,"
     Or "Webster's Spelling-Book."

     1833.

THE DEMON OF THE STUDY.

     THE Brownie sits in the Scotchman's room,
     And eats his meat and drinks his ale,
     And beats the maid with her unused broom,
     And the lazy lout with his idle flail;
     But he sweeps the floor and threshes the corn,
     And hies him away ere the break of dawn.

     The shade of Denmark fled from the sun,
     And the Cocklane ghost from the barn-loft cheer,
     The fiend of Faust was a faithful one,
     Agrippa's demon wrought in fear,
     And the devil of Martin Luther sat
     By the stout monk's side in social chat.

     The Old Man of the Sea, on the neck of him
     Who seven times crossed the deep,
     Twined closely each lean and withered limb,
     Like the nightmare in one's sleep.
     But he drank of the wine, and Sindbad cast
     The evil weight from his back at last.

     But the demon that cometh day by day
     To my quiet room and fireside nook,
     Where the casement light falls dim and gray
     On faded painting and ancient book,
     Is a sorrier one than any whose names
     Are chronicled well by good King James.

     No bearer of burdens like Caliban,
     No runner of errands like Ariel,
     He comes in the shape of a fat old man,
     Without rap of knuckle or pull of bell;
     And whence he comes, or whither he goes,
     I know as I do of the wind which blows.

     A stout old man with a greasy hat
     Slouched heavily down to his dark, red nose,
     And two gray eyes enveloped in fat,
     Looking through glasses with iron bows.
     Read ye, and heed ye, and ye who can,
     Guard well your doors from that old man!

     He comes with a careless "How d' ye do?"
     And seats himself in my elbow-chair;
     And my morning paper and pamphlet new
     Fall forthwith under his special care,
     And he wipes his glasses and clears his throat,
     And, button by button, unfolds his coat.

     And then he reads from paper and book,
     In a low and husky asthmatic tone,
     With the stolid sameness of posture and look
     Of one who reads to himself alone;
     And hour after hour on my senses come
     That husky wheeze and that dolorous hum.

     The price of stocks, the auction sales,
     The poet's song and the lover's glee,
     The horrible murders, the seaboard gales,
     The marriage list, and the jeu d'esprit,
     All reach my ear in the self-same tone,--
     I shudder at each, but the fiend reads on!

     Oh, sweet as the lapse of water at noon
     O'er the mossy roots of some forest tree,
     The sigh of the wind in the woods of June,
     Or sound of flutes o'er a moonlight sea,
     Or the low soft music, perchance, which seems
     To float through the slumbering singer's dreams,

     So sweet, so dear is the silvery tone,
     Of her in whose features I sometimes look,
     As I sit at eve by her side alone,
     And we read by turns, from the self-same book,
     Some tale perhaps of the olden time,
     Some lover's romance or quaint old rhyme.

     Then when the story is one of woe,--
     Some prisoner's plaint through his dungeon-bar,
     Her blue eye glistens with tears, and low
     Her voice sinks down like a moan afar;
     And I seem to hear that prisoner's wail,
     And his face looks on me worn and pale.

     And when she reads some merrier song,
     Her voice is glad as an April bird's,
     And when the tale is of war and wrong,
     A trumpet's summons is in her words,
     And the rush of the hosts I seem to hear,
     And see the tossing of plume and spear!

     Oh, pity me then, when, day by day,
     The stout fiend darkens my parlor door;
     And reads me perchance the self-same lay
     Which melted in music, the night before,
     From lips as the lips of Hylas sweet,
     And moved like twin roses which zephyrs meet!

     I cross my floor with a nervous tread,
     I whistle and laugh and sing and shout,
     I flourish my cane above his head,
     And stir up the fire to roast him out;
     I topple the chairs, and drum on the pane,
     And press my hands on my ears, in vain!

     I've studied Glanville and James the wise,
     And wizard black-letter tomes which treat
     Of demons of every name and size
     Which a Christian man is presumed to meet,
     But never a hint and never a line
     Can I find of a reading fiend like mine.

     I've crossed the Psalter with Brady and Tate,
     And laid the Primer above them all,
     I've nailed a horseshoe over the grate,
     And hung a wig to my parlor wall
     Once worn by a learned Judge, they say,
     At Salem court in the witchcraft day!

